10—The Davidsonian—May 1, 1981

In Veritate Magna Vis

BB&DB’s description of Spring Term with three weeks to go:

The game started like a blowout. You could make 15 yards on a quarterback sneak. By the end of the
first quarter, it was 35-0 and looking like a romp. Your game plan was working like a charm. Then, just
before halftime, your star quarterback got hurt. Out for the season. During the third quarter, more starters were injured. Up
71-0, it still looked like you’d win, but the bad guys started to chew up yardage. Then it happened. They
put in their ringer, number 23, Carl “The Brick” Bros, Cohen. Before you knew what was going on, it was
tied up.

Now, there is under a minute to go in the game. It’s 4th and 25. You have to punt. But
there’s ol’ Carl back there ready to return the kick. You have this haunting feeling that you’re going to lose.
The ball is snapped...

In case you didn’t know, the Ruskies (and a few others) went to Hampden-Sydney this weekend. We tried to keep
’em here because we weren’t sure the state of Virginia (or anywhere else for that matter) was ready to see
Davidson coeds. Well, they got away and had a real ball. A few disappointed Davidsonians were a little late getting
back on the truck, though.

The girls of first and fourth Rich tried their hands at letter writing recently. The addresses were PiKA and SAE.
It seems that these nasty boys had taken showers on their halls and the girls were a bit peeved. We
understand the E’s had to buy them some more Janitor-in-a-Drum industrial strength shampoo along with six cases of Oxy-50.

The Pikes had a busy week, including a mixer with the Wake Forest Animal Farm. Numerous cows were seen grazing
by their sandpile in the front yard. Farmer John Chidsey, who set a record for milking the most cows, simply
said, “She was incredible.”

Here’s a new BB&DB feature. Our advice service is now open and we've received a lot of mail already.

Dear BB&DB,

I think Carl Cohen is a Communist. He talks about astronomy in class, makes up a test that looks like
an exam on Shakespeare, and then gets DCF groupies to grade it. I’m not mad because I got a -5
and still got a B. What I want to know is, where does he get his drugs from?

The Car in Spencer’s Backyard

Dear Car,

We'll have to negate that negation by means of the triple conjunction and other dialectical dichotomies of parenthetical analogies. We'll
go down seventeen different paths, leave this over here and this over there, and tie them all together in the
end. In other words, he gets his drugs from the same place the Ruskies get the Ryder trucks from.

BB&DB

Dear BB&DB,

I’m just a typical Davidson coed. (i.e. I get my wrap skirts from Omar the Tent Maker and have the
personality of a dial tone) I was kidnapped and taken along on the mixer to Hampden-Sydney. I did manage to
take along some books and get in a little studying on the way up. Those girls in front of me
were very irritating when they were singing “Meat Loaf” time after time. What can we do about such atrocious behavior?

A Typical Davidson Coed

Dear Omar,

Skip a meal! Does this sound or look vaguely familiar?

BB&DB

“Eegadz! There is so much wastage in government. American workers earn meager salaries while Arab sheiks live in modern palaces.
This is all illustrated in Simon (sp. Simon) Kooznick’s following book, Commies, Faggots, and Demagogues to be published by Hopper
and Row.”

Who said this? When did they say this? Explain, very concisely, why you failed the test. Will you ever go
toclass again?

Old South (continued from page 1)

some insight into the way the KA’s see it.” Kennebrew and the BSC still felt a protest was in order
because they think Old South demonstrates insensitivity to blacks in its celebration of “a tradition that embodies white racism... in
negligence of Blacks and their feelings.” He added that it is naive not to realize that “by celebrating one side
of history... one is implicitly celebrating a demoralized side of history that was and will always be appalling and degrading
to Black Americans.” BSC members are wearing red ribbons as a sign of their protest. A number of other students
and administrators have also chosen to wear ribbons. Crum said, “We don’t wish to be insensitive and it’s out of
sensitivity that we went to talk to them.” He pointed out that the KA’s have moved the whole event off
campus this year to avoid offending any students who disapprove of activities such as the traditional town parade in Confederate
uniforms. “We’re not personally opposed. It’s just that the organizations conflict over this particular point (of keeping Old South),” Crum
explained. Kennebrew agreed.

——— Athletics proposals ——— (continued from page 1)

Director Tom Couch, Owen said. She added that the director could also possibly serve as a trainer for all athletics,
especially for women’s sports. The group’s third major recommendation was to consider upgrading some club sports, such as soccer and
volleyball, to the varsity level. More students participated this year in these club sports than did in the varsity track
team, the athletes noted. Shi said large fluctuations in student interest in various teams result from the size of the
female student population. This “makes it difficult to plan ahead,” he said. Shi cautioned that upgrading club sports may cause
some club team players to drop out.

___ Ratio. (continued from page 1)

Council Chairman Religion Professor Samuel Maloney. The Council consists of six professors and two students who meet with the President
three times a year to discuss admissions issues. Maloney said he supports Maydole’s position, he feels it is only the
beginning of a coherent admissions policy. “It does not take into account special consideration given to minorities and children of
alumni,” he said. Seniors Katherine Allen and Karen Hester, who co-chair Davidson’s chapter of the National Organization for Women (NOW),
have advocated a sex-blind admissions policy for several years. Allen said, “I think Davidson is ready to see a change
in admissions policy, and I hope the Trustees will act on the recommendation.” Senior Louis Williams is circulating a petition
identical to Maydole’s among the student body. Williams said he wants to demonstrate to the Trustees that the students stand
behind the faculty’s motion.

3ARGER CONSTRUCTION 384 North Main St. Mooresville, NC 28115. CALL:

SOPHOMORES! TRY THE BASIC OUTLOOK

If you're starting to look at life after college, try our “basic” outlook. Apply for the special Two-Year Army ROTC
Program during your sophomore year. Attend a six-week Basic Camp this summer and earn $500. It's tough. But the people
who can manage it are the people we want to serve as officers in the active Army or Reserves. Do
well at Basic and you can qualify for the Army ROTC Advanced Program in the fall. You'll earn $100 a
month for 20 months your last two years in college. And the opportunity for a two-year full tuition scholarship. You'll
also receive the extra credentials that will distinguish you in whatever career you may choose. Try our “basic” outlook on
life.
