—Film reviews with Nick Graham

FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO THINK
that Lon Chaney was nothing
more than a werewolf of Lon-

don, Fine Films have a deliciously
shocking experience in store next

Wednesday night in Love Auditori-

um at 8:00 pm. This takes the form of
the original (silent) version of The
Phantom of the Opera made in the
Twenties and starring Chaney him-

self as Erik, the demented violinist
of the Paris Opera.

A classic of the horror genre, this

film is sadly more often referred to
(and usually in jest at that) than it

is seen by the kind of audience which
it deserves. The story concerns Erik,
a musician who met with an unplea-

sant but rather hazy accident years
previously which hideously dis-
figured him. He now haunts the cel-

lars of the Opera and the sewers of
Paris, leading a solitary, brutish, and
foreshortened existence completely

cut off from contact both with his fel-

low artists and the bourgeoisie who
were his patrons. However, as is the

way with these things, he lusts after

(or genuinely loves) a beautiful girl

at the Opera and arranges to kidnap
her, ravishing her away with com-

mendable efficiency and manic
energy to his troglodytic domain.

Retribution, when it comes, from the

inhabitants of the surface is murder-
ously swift and the climactic chase

scene in the bowels of the city is one
of the finest moments in classic

cinema.

Lon Chaney gives a performance which more than equals his later work in The Hunchback of Notre Dame. His alienation from the dry-cleaned world of the surface invites comparisons of a political nature and it’s easy to see the whole feature as a document in proletarian-bourgeois relations rather than primarily an essay in sex-and-deformity.

On the latter subject, Chaney is
visually fascinating, and it is said

that his facial expression was

achieved with very little reliance on

make-up, the bulk of the illusion be-

ing created by clever lighting and ca-

mera angles. At least one of the

prints of this film, besides boasting
an eerie modern electronic sound-

track, was also specially reprocessed
(or hand-tinted back in

the Twenties, I forget which) so that

whole sequences of the film, rather

than being simply black-and-white,
seem to have been shot through a
variety of filters, giving an unearthly
atmosphere to the proceedings
which change from blue to green to

red in the course of the action. At the

time of writing, however, it’s not yet

clear if we’ve got that particular ver-
sion of the film, I’m afraid.

Fans of the horror genre need not wait, however, until Wednesday for their pleasures. Pop Films are celebrating Halloween tonight by showing The Shining, Stanley Kubrick's essay in the form. Doubtless, Davidson audiences will require little prompting from me to see this excellent film, one of the finest examples of the genre.

When it was first released, some critics felt that Kubrick was in some way lowering himself by dallying with something as contemptible as the horror genre. In fact, with some measure of hindsight, one can see precisely how wrong-headed this view was. Jack Nicholson is simply awesome doing what he does best: charting the charming descent of a creative mind into terrifying insanity, and Shelley Duvall screams remarkably well. (The ‘Shining’ of the title incidentally, if you did not already know, refers to the paranormal powers of their young son, powers which Mrs. Duvall comes to rely upon increasingly in the face of her husband’s mental collapse.)

As is often the case with these things, however, the real achievement is Kubrick’s own: having rid himself of the visual and technical excesses which failed to save Barry Lyndon, he has produced a film of almost unbearable intensity which raises one’s whole image of what a horror film can be. The Overlook Hotel, which the Torrance family is supposed to be caretaking, provides a new sort of haunted-house which evokes fear and suspense by its very atmosphere but which avoids the hackneyed excesses associated with such domiciles. The pacing, performance, and mystery of the story are all perfectly judged and really one could hardly wish for better entertainment on this particular evening. Forget the Halloweens and Friday the Thirteenths of this world, Kubrick outclasses them effortlessly in a feature which replaces manipulation and crudeness with highly sophisticated terror. You would be well advised to go to see it: all work and no play tend to make Jack a dull boy.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 October 1981.