Jeb Benedict Davidsonian: What kind of experience do you have in journalism?

Stewart: I had limited experience in high school and did most of the layout of two literary magazines and what I could do in editing work. I’ve been learning technical things about this paper for quite a long time, for about four or five weeks. I stayed over Thanksgiving and spent most of my time learning how to run this paper.

Jeb: My experience was three years as editor of a high school paper, which was, quite frankly, with a larger staff than the one here. In addition, I worked with the freshman handbook. This summer I was a press intern with a senator in Washington, writing his newsletters. I produced them, wrote them out, and sent them.

John: None in journalism in the narrowly defined sense.

Davidsonian: What have you done to prepare yourself to edit the Davidsonian? For instance, many people work on the staff to prepare themselves. If you have not worked on the staff, we would like to know why.

Stewart: I laid out about one third or one half of the last issue, and did work on the one before that. I took care of the photography schedules, plus organizing the typesetting schedule. It was basically learning what they were actually doing. I started out about the middle of last term.

Jeb: That is an interesting question. Primarily this year, I didn’t think that there would be a warm reception for me. Also, I had a pretty sour attitude about it in the fall.

John: To prepare myself I’ve tried to be involved in various groups on campus and talking with individuals, finding out their opinions and attitudes. I’m in the Phi Society, am active in DCF, I was on the Freshman Council, and had some good interaction there. I eat at Emanon, and every meal is a time to talk.

New yearbook editors Carol Roche and Jim Reese will run '83 annual

Juniors Carol Roche and Jim Reese are running unopposed in Tuesday’s election for the post of the Quips and Cranks co-editors. The two candidates have been interested in editing the yearbook since their freshman year. Carol said, “I was trying to limit my extra-curricular activities when I came to Davidson but one thing I wanted to do was be on the annual staff. Jim and I called up several times but got no reply. The book didn’t get started until spring, and it was a total mess in the end. It was then that I decided to run for editor.”

Jim and Carol are the only members of the present annual staff who have been involved with the yearbook since their freshman year. They both edited their high school yearbooks during their senior year. This past summer, Jim and Carol were counselors for the Josten’s Colonial Workshop for high school students. Josten’s is one of the largest yearbook companies in the eastern United States.

“I’m really a hard worker, devoted completely to the yearbook, but Jim is the creative mind,” Carol said. Carol hopes that Jim will be top editor and that she will assist him. She believes this arrangement will make things run smoother since one person would always make the final decisions. Jim is currently writing for a newspaper in Bainbridge, Georgia. Later this term he will begin...A congressional internship in Washington, D.C. The 1982-83 yearbook will have a large amount of text like last year’s did. “I think it’s important to have copy so that names and the Davidson atmosphere will be preserved for the future,” said Carol. Carol and Jim plan to take a poll of the number of people who would like to continue senior candids. “We are having a harder and harder time finding good photographers,” said Carol. Jim and Carol are also fighting Carol Roche for a bigger budget so that they can add more color to the yearbook. In the past, editors have had to do all the work, and problems resulted. Carol plans to solve this problem by scanning all incoming freshmen applications and writing to each applicant who has been a high school editor. This should bring pre-trained students onto the yearbook staff. Section editors will come from this year’s staff. Over the summer these students will attend the Josten’s workshop. “Last year’s editor, senior, Diane Odom, showed us who was dependable. I want to leave a strong staff for next year so that the yearbook won’t go downhill after we leave,” said Carol.

By Bill Swift ’85

Davidsonian election - The SGA moved in its Tuesday meeting to accept a proposal to extend the term of Davidsonian editor by seven weeks. If accepted, the proposal will not go into effect until next year. Davidsonian Editor John Siman suggested the extension so that future editors would have time to offer technical advice to their successors. Quips and Cranks, the College yearbook, already has a training period for incoming editors. Presently the Davidsonian’s editor is elected the third week of winter term and takes office immediately upon returning from Christmas break. John proposes that the time of the election not be changed, but that the editor-elect not take office until the beginning of spring term. John first submitted his proposal to the Media Board, which oversees student publications, at the beginning of fall term. Media Board Member Howard Brown ’82 said the Board discussed John’s proposal at its first meeting of the year, but its members had “no strong feeling one way or the other about it.” At the second meeting, the Board agreed that it would be helpful to get student opinion on the matter since the Davidsonian is a student organization. The Media Board turned the proposal over to the SGA for their recommendation. Only then did the Media Board and the SGA realize that the proposal fell under the jurisdiction of the SGA. This week’s reading at the SGA was the first of two readings required by the College Constitution. The SGA will read and vote on the proposal again next week. A two-thirds majority vote will be required for it to be passed. If the SGA accepts it, the proposal will require a change in their by-laws. John said a training period would be advantageous for the following reasons: [1] Being an apprentice editor and producing the newspaper at the same time is very difficult. [2] Adjusting the editor's term would enable the editor-elect to find weaknesses, assign staff members, and build his own staff while still having the outgoing editor around to help him produce the paper. [3] The extended term would help the editor-elect learn to use the Davidsonian’s new complex systems more effectively and efficiently.

By Mahmoud Sayani

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 11 December 1981