DAVIDSONIAN

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

The great job hunt

On the inconvenience of being liberally educated

While browsing through the Union’s copy of Mother Jones magazine, I came across four letters to the editor concerning an
article called “How ATT’s Workers are Bugged, Drugged, and Coming Unplugged.” The article discussed how the phone company abuses its
employees in amazing ways to maximize the company’s efficiency. For example, employees’ trips to the bathroom are counted, timed, and
catalogued.

Now the first three letters all made this point: Yes, I know about the phone company’s evil ways and your
article described them accurately; things may be even worse than you say. Appropriate responses to good investigative journalism, I thought.
Then I read the fourth letter:

Dear Mother [Jones]:

I am a college senior working as a temporary clerk in Pacific Telephone’s summer hire program. I’m writing to reveal
the reactions of my fellow (permanent) workers to your article. I provided each with a copy run off on Ma
Bell’s own office copier.

Of the ten people in my office: two refused to read past the first paragraph (“I need my job; I
can’t afford to read that,” pleaded one); one characterized Mother Jones as a magazine of dubious credibility; five skimmed it
and said they were sure the company was no different than any other large corporation; one said she believed it
happened, but somewhere else; and the last, who had been an operator in the ’50s, said it was “true... and
spooky.”

All expressed concern about having the article in the office. One told me that if the district manager saw it
on my desk, I’d never be hired (by the company, I assume).

The final impact of the article? To the last person, they merely shrugged — and went back to work.

(Name withheld)
Sacramento, California

An account of typical reactions to good investigative journalism, I thought. Most people are just not very eager to hear
criticism of institutions, especially institutions in which they have a particular interest.

Which is in many cases understandable. When one depends on ATT to feed and clothe his family, he is not
unwise to bottle up his discontent with his employer. When one is drafted and shipped off to war, he lowers
his and his comrades’ morale by questioning the rationale for the war.

There is a group of people, however, who have almost nothing to lose by looking critically at institutions (and reading
Mother Jones for that matter). College students. Students have a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to be idealistic. They have no family to
support, no employer to please, no social standing to protect. Students are just about as free from worldly pressures as
anyone can be.

But when I read the letter about the phone company employees who, when confronted with a scandal, shrugged and went
back to work, I thought: This is the characteristic reaction of so many Davidson students! They'd rather worry about their
LSATs or med school interviews than give a second thought to some social or political problem that doesn’t concern them
directly.

Now not all Davidson students are self-centered grinds who don’t care about anything except getting started in their professional careers.

Not all, but too many. And these students are missing what college is all about — learning. They are forfeiting
their one-time chance to experiment with different ideas, to develop and test their worldviews, to just sit and think. What’s
the value of college if it is merely a place to polish one’s marketable skills between high school and career?

Ken Wood, the director of the Careers Office, has a good grasp of what college is about. “It’s a difficult
thing,” he said in an interview this week, “for students to see that there’s a relationship between learning and living.
Education is not off here in a bag somewhere and my life is over here. It seems to me that
while we’re in school some attention needs to be paid to ‘Who am I,’ ‘Where am I going with my
life?’ and I think that our program is uniquely designed to deal with those questions and to support students as
they engage in that kind of inquiry and activity.” I don’t think Mr. Wood could approach his job with a
better attitude.

But there is a group of students who scurry about complaining to anyone who will listen (including the Trustees) that
Mr. Wood is failing at his job. They feel that Mr. Wood ought to be setting them up on their
paths to corporate success but that Mr. Wood is instead off in space lecturing them on personal growth and intellectual
development. This group calls themselves the SGA Corporate Relations Committee and are a striking example of the selfish, boy-executive, ‘I’m
pragmatic and proud’ attitude. These pragmatic boys are relatively harmless while they’re cramming for their eco comps and dreaming of
a big executive suite, but I’m a little worried about their Corporate Relations Committee. The issue is not only whether
Mr. Wood can withstand their rage, but, more importantly, whether the tenuous academic climate at Davidson can absorb students who
organize themselves to oppose the very principle of liberal education.

I do, however, wish them well at ATT.

John Siman, ’82, editor.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 October 1981
