DAVIDSONIAN

_ The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

~ Making the
~ Honor System
work
as it should

There are few things as unpleasant as catching someone who has violated the Honor Code. Twice last summer I was in this situation. In a routine audit, I discovered that two students, acting separately, had been stealing money from a student organization. When the evidence I accumulated against them became conclusive, I was struck with dull disbelief. I was neither angry nor excited but felt a vague nausea. I realized that I was supposed to report the violations and did so mechanically.

I want to recount what happened after I turned one of these students in. His case was a complicated one; therefore, I am not describing it as a representative case. Instead, since it was so difficult to settle, I want to offer it as a case that tested the Honor System and showed the System’s weaknesses.

The student in question stole money totaling over $2200 on ten occasions. I learned about the thefts a few at a time, over the course of the entire summer. I first realized the student had been stealing at the start of June, just two weeks after he had graduated. I told the Dean of Students, who replied that since the student had graduated, the Dean did not care to pursue the case. It was left to me to recover the money and continue the audit. Note that at this time neither he nor I knew of the magnitude of the student’s theft.

Since I was spending most of my summer in Davidson, I had ample time to conduct an audit. I needed it. The student had covered his tracks so well that it took a friend and me three months of laborious on-and-off work to fully piece together his wrongdoing.

Every few weeks during the summer I would detect a few more of the student’s thefts. Each of these times I would attempt to call him, but he was traveling abroad and could not be contacted. Never did any College official attempt to call him.

Because the shocking extent of the student’s crime was becoming more and more apparent, I began reporting the results of my audit to the College Business Manager, Mr. Currie. He and the College Comptroller, Mr. Davidson, agreed that I should continue my investigation and, when the student returned to the United States, arrange a meeting at which we would reach a financial settlement with him.

At the end of July, the student returned. I was nervous, for I was confronting someone I hardly knew. One cannot make a long-distance call and blurt out something like, “Hello. Remember me? I think you're a thief.” Our conversation lasted over an hour. He denied his wrongdoing with bizarre, hasty alibis and asserted that I had a vendetta against him. Three days later I spoke to him again and he confessed — almost. I told him that the audit was not yet complete: I had not checked records before May 1980. He assured me he had been a “good boy” during that time, that there was no need for me to investigate any further. It turned out that he was lying — lying about $300 stolen cash. Thus began my uncomfortable personal dealings with the student.

As I learned more about him, I realized he was not some wretch forced into stealing by unbearable financial pressures or mafia extortion, but a very wealthy, very bright, very dapper scion of a prominent family who stole money to maintain an extravagant lifestyle. He took weekend outings on Eastern Airlines and enjoyed chic chemical amusements. He had once before been turned in for stealing, but nothing had come of it.

18 DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 4 December 1981