Reformists bite the gold dust

Strategic concerns outweigh moral ones in Reagan’s South African policy

South Africa’s prime minister, Mr. P.W. Botha, is facing the consequences of his reformist strategies. During his first two years in power, when he was trying to coax his deeply conservative party into accepting reform, he adopted what seemed the clever strategy of appointing commissions of inquiry to propose reforms he actually favored himself. But then last April, a general election revealed that South African politics were veering sharply to the right. Mr. Botha responded by retreating on reform—just as those commissions were preparing to report.

Several commissions have already embarrassed him. The most discomfiting was last week’s recommendation from a commission on the educational system that the government should end apartheid in education and allow the opening of schools to all races. Denouncing racial separatism in education as “contrary to the social and ethical demands for justice,” the commission called for a new system, under a single ministry, that would provide equal education for all. Strong stuff. Too strong for the post-April Mr. Botha. His government immediately issued a white paper rejecting the central theme of the report and reaffirming the government’s commitment to separate educational systems. Disgusted, nine members of the commission accused the government of striking a “disastrous and irreparable” blow to education.

Cold war fixation from The Economist

There had been other, earlier embarrassments. The president’s council, set up to be Mr. Botha’s main instrument of reform, has urged a review of the Group Areas Act and influx control regulations—two cornerstones of apartheid. It has also called for the return to their original colored and Indian inhabitants of two key residential areas which have been zoned for whites. The government, caught between causing more right-wing trouble and damaging the credibility of its new institution, has done nothing.

It dead-batted, too, on the final report of the Wiehahn commission on labor reforms. This commission’s first reports paved the way for blacks to be allowed to form trade unions. Its final report, two weeks ago, dealt with dropping the color bar in the mines, where white conservatism is at its strongest. Blacks have never been eligible for blasting certificates, which are the passport to skilled work in the mines. The commission has now urged that this rule be changed—adding the catch-22 provision that the mine workers’ union should agree first. The government temporized.

America’s ill-conceived South African policy

America’s evolving policy toward South Africa is almost exclusively within the context of American economic and strategic stakes. The fundamental economic stake, of course, consists of about 373 U.S. companies in South Africa, with aggregate direct investments of $2 billion in 1980. South Africa’s trade with the United States—including such minerals vital to American industry as chromium, manganese, and platinum—amounts to $3.4 billion annually. The sea route around the Cape of Good Hope is perceived as both an economic and strategic interest because it is the maritime passageway for Middle Eastern petroleum destined for...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Western Europe and the United States. For Reagan policymakers, South Africa is especially valued as a pro-Western bulwark against Soviet-bloc expansion in the whole rim of southern Africa, and is also welcomed as a potential ally in the administration’s boisterous cold war policy. The cold war fixation of Reagan’s foreign policy has taken precedence over Washington’s past concern for South Africa's black majority. This new direction, suggested by the ambassador to the United Nations, indicated a retreat from the official policy of the last two decades. In reference to South Africa’s rigid system of racial segregation, the president defended U.S. support on both moral and strategic grounds: “As long as there’s a sincere and honest effort being made [by the apartheid regime], based on our own experience in our own land, it would seem to me that we should be trying to be helpful. . . . Can we abandon a country that strategically is essential to the Free World in its production of minerals we all must have and so forth?”

The first evidence of rupture from established policy followed when five South African military officers, including the chief of military intelligence, secretly arrived in the United States for consultations with the National Security Council and the Central Intelligence Agency. Holding a policy-level position in the administration, the consultations with U.S. officials violated long-standing policy outlawing official business visits to this country by members of South Africa’s armed forces. Although the White House expelled the South Africans and attempted to excuse the infraction by stating that they obtained visas by concealing their identity as military leaders, the disingenuous excuse glossed over the chilling fact that they had completed their clandestine consultations before the expulsion.

The administration’s willingness to align with the apartheid dictatorship was confirmed finally in May by the disclosure of State Department briefing papers affirming Washington’s readiness to “open a new chapter” in bilateral relations in exchange for South Africa’s cooperation in combating Soviet influence in southern Africa, notably in Angola, and Pretoria’s support for an “internationally acceptable” solution in Namibia. When Assistant Secretary of State Chester A. Crocker visited several African states during April, he tried to win support for a negotiated Namibian settlement that proposed constitutional guarantees for Namibia’s White minority as a precondition of independence. Not since Kissinger's ill-conceived NSSM, the South African intelligence chief, General P.W. Vander Westhuizen, and the South Africans’ visits and consultations in Washington indicated such a cheap embrace of South Africa.

FROM THE LOS ANGELES TIMES

By saying it was up to the employers to get this agreement. But if the Afrikaner government does not put pressure on the mainly Afrikaner miners, the English mining houses will not fight to bring in blacks. Another reform bites the gold dust.

---