6—The Davidsonian—February 6, 1981

Inside IMAC

If you haven’t visited the basement of the gym recently, then I’ve got some news for you. The weights aren’t
there anymore. Almost all of the weight equipment has been moved from the basement of the gym to beneath the
stadium. Why? According to Athletics Director Gene Bingham, the main reason is liability. If someone were injured while working out,
the College would be liable. Of course, if one were eaten by an alligator while swimming down at the George
Murrell pool, the College would be liable. Besides, it wasn’t the College’s decision to move the weights—it was the Athletic
Department’s decision with urging from the football coaches.

Students currently just don’t have adequate facilities in which to work out. According to Dean of Students Will Terry, many
students have contacted him about the current problem. Many students use the weights with great regularity and are more than
a little upset about the recent change of policy. When I spoke with Bingham about the possibility of regaining student
access to the weights, I ran into some problems. Bingham said that only supervised students will be allowed to use
the weights. Supervision means that a coach or faculty member must be present. This makes it easy for a varsity
athlete to work out, for the coach of the team can supervise the workouts. But someone who works out on
his own will undoubtedly have difficulty finding supervision.

From my point of view, I see the whole arrangement as quite absurd. There are many students who are far
more knowledgeable in the field of weight resistance training than perhaps anyone in the athletic department, and yet they cannot
use the weights without supervision. What can be done? If students' response is great enough, then changes will have to
be made. As it stands right now, anyone wishing to work out may do so with any varsity team. The
workout schedules will be posted in the gym. This may turn out to be a losing battle, however, since the
weight room is likely to be crowded during these times. Go ahead and try this arrangement. If it doesn’t prove
satisfactory, then complain to anyone who will listen. I am not at all satisfied with the new arrangement. If you
are serious about working out, then contact me (-6369). A faculty member has volunteered his services to supervise a group
of students. We will be working out on Wednesdays and Fridays from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the afternoon.

The playoffs have started in basketball, and next week’s column will feature coverage. Here’s the Top Ten:
1. Blue Jazz (1)
2. Cool Breeze (3/4)
3. Fido (1/4)
4. True Grits
5. We’re Pathetic
6. Phi Delt
7. Take All Kinds
8. Max Relax
9. Born Loose
10. All Other Teams
(first place votes in parentheses)

Spend the summer in New England

Camp Becket boys’ camp in the mountains of western Massachusetts has openings for college students, teachers, and coaches to serve
as cabin counselors and program specialists in its summer program. Activities include hiking, sailing, swimming, canoeing, athletics, crafts, and dramatics.
Also openings for nurses (RN). For application contact: Lloyd Griffith, State YMCA.

Wrestlers grab two victories at H-S

By PAUL GRIFFITH
Staff Correspondent

Last Saturday, while most of us were enjoying Midwinters weekend, the Davidson wrestlers gutted out three tough matches in a
quad meet at Hampden-Sydney. The teams involved were Davidson, Hampden-Sydney, Colgate, and Lynchburg College. The Wildcats came out well, defeating
Hampden-Sydney and Lynchburg and bowing to an extremely tough Colgate. Among the weekend standouts, CoachBob Estock was especially pleased with
the performances of junior Scott Smith and freshman John Breidenstine. Smith was 2-1 for the weekend and has amassed a
whopping 14-5 record for the season. In his loss to Colgate, Smith led his opponent until the last 30 seconds.
Estock emphasized that he wrestled an excellent match against a tough opponent from Hampden-Sydney. John Breidenstine compiled a perfect 3-0
record at Hampden-Sydney and was the only winner for Davidson against Colgate. Estock has been "very pleased" with Breidenstine’s consistently
good performances and foresees a bright future for the wrestler. Breidenstine’s record for the season stands at 9-7-1.

Coach Estock also commented that he was happy with the recent performances of team captain Dave Nichols, sophomore Lance Stokes,
and freshman Todd Kimsey. Kimsey, a first-year wrestler, has won four of his last five matches. He also placed fourth
in the recent tournament at Washington and Lee. Estock believes Kimsey is gaining confidence and experience that will be conducive
to winning matches. Although Lance Stokes was only 1-2 last Saturday, Estock said he wrestled a good match against his
Colgate opponent and that he really came through against Hampden-Sydney. In that match, Stokes pinned his opponent in 45 seconds!

Senior Dave Nichols has caught fire. After placing first in the Washington and Lee Tournament two weeks ago, he came
on again and won two out of three matches at Hampden-Sydney. Nichols pinned his opponent from Lynchburg, decisioned his man
from Hampden-Sydney, and lost a close match against Colgate. Nichols has made vast improvements in his wrestling ability and is
definitely a force to be reckoned with.

Coach Estock is definitely pleased with the team’s performances and improvement. He emphasized that the Davidson squad is very young
and packed with potential. Next year, the Wildcat wrestlers will lose only two men due to graduation. Estock is optimistic
about upcoming matches. With over half the season gone, the 'Cats record stands at 5-5. Saturday, the Davidson wrestlers will
take on Furman in Johnston Gym at 1:00 p.m.

(David Lincoln)

Mail to:
AT HILTON HEAD
Reservations Dept.
Hilton Head Island, SC 29928

Gentlemen:

IT PAYS TO HAVE ALUMNI IN HIGH PLACES

Name
Address
City
State
Telephone
Zip

Sea Pines at Hilton Head, out of the goodness of its heart, is making this unprecedented offer to students of
Davidson College: a 3-day, first-class weekend on Hilton Head Island for $1/hr. THIS IS NOT A JOKE. Sea Pines at
Hilton Head Island, one of the finest resorts in America, will treat you to 3 days and 2 nights in
a private, luxury villa near the beach for $65 per person. And as additional inducements, we'll include two continental breakfasts,
a Saturday night cookout or buffet, free tennis, and a day’s bike rental. All on us. Why are we really
doing this? Because the people who make these kinds of company decisions either went to Davidson or one of the
other eight colleges we've invited.

Here is my deposit for $25. Please arrange a 3-Day, First Class Weekend for (no. of people) (no. of bedrooms)
for the weekend of (give 1st and 2nd choice) Feb 13-15, Feb 20-22, Feb 27-March 1.

St. James Ave.
Boston, MA 02116
(617) 426-8802

On-campus interviews in February

Or Call Toll Free
1-800-845-6131
1-800-922-7042 in S.C.
