February 6, 1981—The Davidsonian—9

Mummenschanz mime ineffable folly
By TOM PAFFORD
Staff Writer

“Saigon. I’m still in Saigon...” The opening lines of Apocalypse Now retained a grain of importance. It was near 12:30, I was tired and I had only the performance and the opinions of some eleven-year-old people from which to write an intriguing story about the Mummenschanz troupe. I had decided to trust my imagination to pull together extra lines, but I went back by the College Union in case the cast members should be around.

Lyman Collins was slinking around behind the lobby desk trying to avoid Davidsonian reps. Thinking quickly, I got him at knife-point and insisted he tell me where Mummenschanz was. “The Wilson Room.” I entered the room and broke up a lively conversation by announcing my name and newspaper. “Hey, don’t let me interrupt, you know.” Say you’re from a newspaper and try that.

Claudia Weiss, Troupe manager, asked what questions I wanted answered. Using all of my news savvy, I asked what was her grandmother’s favorite opera. Claudia is the most impetuous talker of the troupe, but this caught her off guard. Peter Schelling has been in America for only three weeks, and he maintains the intrepid candidness which allows people to answer such trenchant questions, so he told me that his grandmother’s favorite opera was Mozart’s Magic Flute; the music was fairly simple or something. John Murphy, another troupe member, slid out the comment that it was also his favorite opera at one time.

The conversation did not lag after this initial volley. In ten minutes Claudia and Peter cooperated to give us a full explanation of the problems migratory birds encounter over Italy. With her very German background, I supposed Claudia has some vignette against the Italians when she said that the Italians eat most of the birds, no matter what species. Peter supported this by describing the way Italians capture them. He moved very articulately compared with Claudia, who leaned forward most of the time, emphasizing comments with pulling gestures of her hand and allowing the import of her very complete English to convey the message. Resting on his elbows, Peter spread his hands out to show the nets spread across mountain tops, catching all types of birds for the Italian palate. A rather informal and sincere look was in his eyes. Claudia interjected a comment about “pistol balls” in little birds that took everyone some time to comprehend. John made a pun when he mistook her for talking about flowers, pistil, stamen, all of that.

John almost seemed like an anomaly. I think of actors as being very avant-garde, continuously creating their own niche, but he reminded me of Johnny Carson in appearance, hair grey and nicely combed, but without Carson’s continual punning which could make it odious. Murphy was really very stylishly casual, and when discussion turns to performing, he does not need to rely on appearance to present his individual. Of the members, he seemed the one most in tune to the subtleties of audience-performer interaction. I’m not sure why. Peter and Mummenschanz’s production manager Peter Gerber have had the most experience with children. It could be that John is the cast member most concerned about voicing these aspects of performing.

I didn’t ask them if any deep significance and social comment is supposed to be embedded in the presentation of Mummenschanz. It didn’t seem appropriate. After the performance, I talked with Michael, Thomas, and Aaron, three people around eleven years old. They each enjoyed it, and had definite favorites from among the nearly 40 segments of the shows. They did not enjoy it because they saw symbolism of decaying human communication or allusions to Babylonian creation stories, as I’m afraid many of us dissect our preferences. They liked the different creatures—snakes, green mouths, blobs. That seems to be sufficient reason.

For the actors, the most important aspect of performing is becoming yourself. Once they had auditioned and been accepted, the creators of this happening put John, Claudia, and Peter through rigidly pedagogic training to show them not just the frame of mind for each shape, but the details of movement. All three of them said they wereVery tense at first, and really could not lay back to ruminate and be objective about the show for the first several months. John emphatically told us that you cannot truly perform without placing your unguarded self into your actions. Mummenschanz doesn’t seem like conventional theatre at first thought. It is tempting to describe the experience as having gone beyond traditional expression and explored some treacherous new ground. Peter Berger, the artistic director, did not see it that way. In his mind, Mummenschanz gets at the solid foundation for any sort of acting, the reaction of performers and observers to basic shapes and movements. Children can grasp it with their imagination. He stressed that intellect is important to grasp subtleties, but that people must put themselves into the show to find how it strikes them.

Peter, the actor now, does the opening segment which he calls “Blob.” This neutral color blob heaves and rolls on stage, trying at some points to climb onto a raised platform. Peter is inside, and this evening it was his favorite because he could spread out and flop around. His mind fit that mold for the night. The others felt the same about their favorites. The shapes didn’t have to symbolize anything more than their spontaneous frame of mind placed in a costume which helped express it. Mummenschanz translated to a mumbled chant, one not readily comprehended. In Switzerland, it refers to children’s games of folly. What I saw in Mummenschanz gave me that feel. You can’t readily express what you see in compact, adult terms. I felt sort of giddy, more emotional than articulate. It makes me wonder if folly isn’t a more articulate and communicable way of saying what matters.

Jon Voight . . . Jane Fonda
Friday night Pop Film
Coming Home
Rated R
$1.50 or Pass

Jack p Films presents
Fel
Saturday at 11:30 only
Rated R
$1.50 or Pass

Mummenschanz mimes proved this week that silence can be golden.

Alone with Indians
One-act plays this weekend
By CHARLIE LOVETT
Staff Correspondent

Two disturbing social commentaries, one on the past and one on the future, will be the subjects of the one-act plays presented this weekend as part of the Drama Department’s Winter Workshop Series. Doing a Good One for the Red Man, written by Mark Medoff and directed by junior Brian Collins, is a comedy about two tourists, husband and wife, who encounter an Indian peddling souvenirs beside a desert highway. Through the situation, Medoff reveals the atrocity of the American Indian’s exploitation by the “white man.”

Solitaire, written by Robert Anderson and directed by junior Cindy Faulkenberry, portrays a futuristic society in which the supreme act of patriotism is self-elimination. The play focuses on Sam, a man plagued by dissatisfaction with the “system” which has robbed him of his wife, his family, and his individuality.

Collins said that Red Man first caught his eye because it was so funny, but he also liked what it says about the American Indian. Collins added that his cast, consisting of sophomores Doug Vass, Laura Singleton, and David Barber, “has been great. They have a good idea of my interpretation of the play.”

Faulkenberry felt that Solitaire is a portrait of “extreme broken relationships” which can be viewed as a warning against the modern tendency to disregard the value of family relationships. The play should provide an interesting contrast to Red Man being much more serious. Faulkenberry added that she was pleased with the way the cast was handling the problem of building character. “They have had a hard time portraying non-distinct people who don’t share emotions.”

Solitaire features senior Nelson Simon, junior Karen Hopper, sophomore Eric Fitchner, senior Annie Guerard, junior Matt Kenney, sophomores David Dusseault, and freshman Karen Baldwin. “I really wanted to get involved with drama at Davidson,” Baldwin commented. “We’re having a great time.” Asked about the problem of scenery, Faulkenberry described the set as “futuristic but not Star Trekky.”

Performances will be Thursday and Friday at 7 p.m. in the Drama Workshop. Tickets are on sale at the box office from 2 to 5 p.m. and at the door. Admission is $1.50.

Davidson players rehearse for Solitaire production.