The Coaching Corner

Meet the new coaches in town:

Bobby Hussey

‘Bobby’ Hussey comes to us from Belmont Abbey, where he compiled a ten-year overall record of 178-115. Across the last
four years, he went 96-31, and in the 1979-80 season, he was 29-5 and ranked as high as sixth nationally
in the NAIA poll.

Coach Hussey is 41 years old, and after starting out as an assistant under Al McGuire, he took over the
reins and earned the reputation of a “player’s coach.” He dedicates a lot of time, care, and enthusiasm to his
players and program. Sophomore guard Frank Johnson must think a lot of him, since he followed Coach Hussey from Belmont
Abbey and lost a year of eligibility in the process.

Coach Hussey graduated from Appalachian State in 1962, and for the next eight years, he took to coaching at Kings
Mountain High School. He was 67-7 at Kings Mountain, won three conference championships, and reached the state finals once. In
1971, he received his master's degree from Appalachian, and then went to Belmont Abbey.

Jim Baker

Coach Baker is a 1978 graduate of Catawba College, and he stays with Coach Hussey in the transfer from Belmont
Abbey. Coach Baker was an assistant at the Abbey last season when the Crusaders went 24-7 and were a basket
shy from reaching the NAIA national tournament.

After graduation at Catawba, he stayed on as an assistant there for a year, moved on to Wingate College as
an assistant for the 79-80 season, and then moved on to Belmont Abbey. Coach Baker, 24, is working on his
master’s degree at UNC-Charlotte.

Robbie Hicklin

Coach Hicklin comes to Davidson with a varied coaching background. He graduated in 1972 from Elon College, and in 1975
he served as an assistant for Coach Hussey at Belmont Abbey. In 1976, he moved on to Coastal Carolina University,
where he was an assistant as well.

During the three years prior to his joining the Davidson staff, he was head coach at Clewiston High School in
Clewiston, Florida. There he coached his teams to an overall record of 55-35, and in 1980, he led his team
to a 28-5 season. For that feat, he was chosen Southwest Florida Coach of the Year. Hicklin will help with
recruiting, floor coaching, and scouting.

Steve Soud ’84

Coach Vaillancourt, the humorist of the four, will primarily be in charge of the recruiting “empire” (as he has referred
to it). He came to the Wildcat program from the head coach position at Laurel Park High School in Martinsville,
Virginia.

Coach Vaillancourt, a 30-year-old native of New York, graduated in 1973 from Gardner-Webb College. He went on to Bishop McGuinness
High School in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, where he took over duties as head basketball coach and athletic director. He compiled
a 72-18 record there, and in 1977, he received his master’s degree from James Madison University in Harrisonburg, Virginia. It
was from Madison that he went to Laurel Park.
