Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The title and forecast of a 1981 report by the Council of State Planning Agencies, an organization of the planning and policy staffs of the nation’s governors. The Council finds major deterioration in parts of the country’s infrastructure — that is, vital services such as clean water, reliable transportation, efficient ports, and competent waste disposal, which are indispensable underpinnings for an industrial system. The report finds — as any traveler on United States railroads knows — that “the maintenance of public facilities essential to national economic power has been deferred.” Simultaneously, the means of production of United States industry have been deteriorating. Production incompetence, now endemic, is spreading fast, not only in the well-publicized case of automobile firms but also in the following industries: steel, machine tools, radio and television manufacturing, equipment, precision optics, fine cameras, men’s shoes, flatware, hi-fi electronics, etc., etc., etc.

As private and public managers become better at making money without taking economically useful goods, a new issue finally will have to be confronted: Will America reach a condition of “no return,” making the achievement of industrial renewal problematic? The way that an economy uses its capital — its production resources — is a crucial determinant of its productivity and economic well-being.

By 1977, for every $100 of new (producer’s) fixed capital formation, the United States applied $46 to the military economy. In Japan, the ratio was $3.70 for the military. The concentration of Japan’s capital on productive economic growth goes far to explain the current success of that country’s industry, where productivity grew 6.2 percent in 1980. By contrast, with the United States’ aging machinery stock, the average output per person in manufacturing industry decreased 0.5 percent in 1980.

The United States has “achieved” its present state of industrial deterioration by assigning to the military economy large quantities of machinery, tools, engineers, energy, raw materials, skilled labor, and managers — resources identified everywhere as the “fixed and working capital” that is vital for production. Since a modern military budget is used to purchase such resources, it is, effectively, a capital fund. A large ratio of military to civilian capital formation drains the civilian economy. The viability of the United States as an industrial society is threatened by the concentration of capital in a fund that yields no product useful for consumption. The concentration of capital on behalf of the military economy can only be accelerated as a consequence of the unprecedented size of the war budgets advocated by the Reagan Administration.

The vital resources that constitute a nation’s capital fund cannot be enlarged by waving a budgetary wand. Neither can manufacturing facilities be multiplied by ever richer subsidies to the managers of military industry. Basic machinery, skilled labor, engineers, and scientists — all are finite in number and difficult to increase. The concentration of capital on the military portends sharply diminished opportunity for a productive livelihood for most Americans. Clearly, a choice must be made as to where these resources will be used.

A Republican senator discusses cutting defense spending. Today, months after reviving our free enterprise economic system, we have moved three quarters of the way. Now, we must move the final quarter. That means difficult, even painful choices in spending for defense versus other government programs.The eight rises fuel feign we bisa iat in place the final steps necessary to set our national fiscal house in order. — "We have been able to do so because both the president and Congress have refused to yield to the lobbying of those who continue to seek economic advice from counselors whose ideas have long since proved to be bankrupt.

"Consider what we have done thus far with President Reagan’s leadership: We have reversed the formerly entrenched philosophy that only the federal government can solve every problem of every citizen. In doing so, we have struck at the heart of the deficit-financing approach that has brought the nation’s economy to the brink of ruin. We have insisted that responsible fiscal policy requires that taxes can be reduced only when counterproductive federal spending is also reduced sharply. We have moved rigorously to eliminate costly regulations that have crippled the free enterprise economy by making it seem — if not seer in a B inauguration of Ronald Reagan.

We have ey Bob Packwood, United States Senator, steps when Congress returns from recess. The president and Congress have refused to yield to the lobbying to see the dramatic alteration of trade. It is clear that the president and Congress look ahead to 1984. If we had followed the path set for America by former president Jimmy Carter, the government would have collected $915 billion in taxes in 1984 and spent $889 billion. Under the leadership of President Reagan and with the support of Congress, the federal government will collect $770 billion and spend $760 billion. Even the gloomiest of the economic prophets ought to realize that the American people will be better off by approximately $145 billion in 1984 taxes under Reagan than they would have been under President Carter.

I believe that the economic future of America and the welfare of our people in the new term hinges on our willingness, with the help of Congress, to take the last steps necessary. If the public believes in this program and if Wall Street believes in it, then the world will believe it. This can occur only if the president moves forward with the boldness he has so far shown to the country and the world. Of course, we must maintain, as the president insists, a level and quality of national security that is a full match for its economic strength. But the military establishment must accept the reality that it, too, must share the budget reductions that are inevitable if the president’s program is to be accomplished.

The real tragedy would be to falter now in the drive for both the enhancement of our national security and the stability of our economy. The foundation has been well laid to lift the tax load of all Americans and to provide the taxation incentives to revive business and industry. These steps will spur increased employment and productivity, both of which are essential to our full recovery.

We have also acted decisively to pick and choose among the literally thousands of federal aid programs of clear benefit to the American people. We must ruthlessly set America on a new course, one that will carry us proudly and securely into the 21st century, instead of downward and backward.