THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXX, Number 22
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina
April 24, 1981

Innovative author Tom Wolfe will speak at Convocation tomorrow. For an interview with Wolfe, see p. 9.

Tax Council trims budgets
By JIM POLLARD
Staff Writer

Next year’s editors of Hobart Park and Quips and Cranks are upset because the Activities Tax Council (ATC) denied their
budget requests. Hobart Park editor David Banks and Quips and Cranks editors Karen Welty and Lori Boardman said the smaller
grants they were given would force them to scale down their plans for improving their publications next year.

The ATC divided its $55,000 fund among 12 student organizations which had submitted proposed budgets totaling $65,000. (see chart) The
ATC receives its money from the $45 activity fee included on every student’s bill. Banks said he requested $5,500 for
Hobart Park, the campus literary magazine, but received only $3,000. Welty and Boardman requested $21,300 and received $19,000. (See page
11)

Activities Tax Council budget distribution
Photograph courtesy of Communications Department

In Sociology Department
Yale professor to replace Dailey
By FRANCES PALMER

According to Sociology Department Chairman Bob Ruth, Dailey will not be returning to Davidson next year. According to Sociology Department
Chairman Bob Ruth, Janet Grigsby, a Yale professor, accepted the college’s offer Tuesday to fill Dailey’s position. Grigsby received a
two-year permanent contract.

Ruth said Dailey was hired in 1979 as a visiting instructor with a two-year terminating contract. Dailey’s contract stated that
during his second year the College would begin a nationwide search to fill the position. He would be among the
candidates considered. Dailey said he felt his being a male from a large southern state university hurt his chances of
being rehired.

The College initially considered three candidates, including Dailey. Dailey said the College disqualified one candidate and offered the position to
the second, who turned it down. Instead of hiring Dailey, however, the College reopened the search and brought in three
new prospects. Dailey pointed out that four of the five candidates considered were women from the Northeast. They came from
Yale, Princeton, Penn State University, and the University of New Hampshire. The other male candidate was from the University of
Texas.

His University of Georgia background may have been a disadvantage, Dailey speculated, because of an attitude he sensed in the
administration that a professor from a state school “might not be as attuned” to a liberal arts program. Although Dailey
graduated from Louisiana State University, he said he does have a liberal arts education. He has studied zoology, music, and
psychology in addition to sociology. Dailey does not yet have plans for next year. He said he has “several irons
in the fire.” (See page 11)

Religion majors question Davidson hiring policies
By ROY FULLER
Staff Writer

Several religion majors contend that the administration places too much emphasis on the prestige of an applicant’s academic background when
hiring new faculty. The administration recently vetoed the religion department’s decision to hire Florida State University graduate Elizabeth Malbon for
a newly created position teaching New Testament.

Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann said that this is the first time in many years that the administration
has turned down a department’s recommendation. Senior religion majors Karen Hester and Katherine Allen wrote in a letter to College
President Samuel Spencer and Zimmermann on April 10, “We feel that you have made a great error in judgment which
reflects questionable priorities in faculty hiring.” Hester and Allen felt the administration turned downMalbon because she was from Florida State
University, and that she would have been accepted had she been an Ivy League graduate. Spencer replied in a letter
on April 16 that the College wants the "very best," and that "based on all the evidence, we were convinced
that this candidate was very good, but not the very best." Zimmermann would not specify why the administration did not
wish to hire Malbon. He said he considers an applicant’s educational background important, but Ivy League background is irrelevant. Hester
and Allen emphasized in their letter that Malbon had impressed them with "her ability to articulate complex concepts in a
manner students could understand." Also, Malbon’s "openness to interpersonal relationships with the students" would have made her an asset to
the College. They added, "As senior religion majors we have developed a deep respect for and trust in the judgment
of the religion faculty... A unanimous recommendation from such individuals should be totally convincing." Religion Professor Max Polley, however, said
the Administration had "every right to do what they did, even if it may have been unwise. It is all
probably for the best." Religion Professor David Kaylor said, "We are more interested in the competencies of the prospect. They
have to be more concerned with the public relations aspects." According to the Code of (See page 11)

Seniors find extracurricular activities most valuable Davidson experience

By ELIZABETH KISS
Editor

Davidson seniors say they learned most outside the classroom in their four years here. Dissatisfaction with classroom learning at Davidson
was a common response to a recent Davidsonian survey of 44 seniors (14% of the class). The survey covered seniors’
future plans and their evaluation of their experiences here. Most of the results appear in the table on page 10.

Many respondents chose to elaborate on the quality of a Davidson education. "The class education was not as liberating an
experience as the rest of college life," said one student. Several said classes did not encourage students to be "creative,"
"critical," and "original." Introductory survey courses were "dull and superficial," and some found the area requirements too rigid. In the
classroom, "Davidson mostly teaches you to work hard," one commented.

Most seniors cited experiences outside the classroom as their most valuable. Relationships with faculty members were particularly important. One student
wrote "I will never forget what these people did for me. I’m forever indebted to them." "The comfortable relations here
between students and faculty provide an open, supportive atmosphere for questions about any aspect of growing up—faith, relationships, sexuality, theories
of history, etc.," another senior commented. Several students emphasized the encouragement they received from their major advisors. Others cited Junior
Year Abroad, fraternity life, and the Center for Special Studies as their best experiences. About half named a favorite course
outside their major. Five students cited the Humanities program.

While "friendships" were often mentioned as most valuable, many of the seniors viewed their fellow students critically. "Davidson students, with
some outstanding exceptions, are a dull bunch—nice, but dull," one student commented. "Whatever stimulus you get to really grow intellectually
comes from books and yourself, sometimes a professor, and almost never other students." The student body as a whole, many
said, is "homogeneous," "stuffy," and "conformist."

What did the seniors learn? Some said they learned "to take responsibility." Others mentioned "basic skills" like writing and analysis.
To some, the small town atmosphere of Davidson was ideal for learning; others said its only positive effect was "making
me realize I wouldn’t want to live here."

Is Davidson’s liberal arts education "liberating?" About a quarter of the students felt it was not. "There aren’t too many
rules, which is liberal and liberating, but there is a lot of social pressure here," one student wrote. "There are
too many old-fashioned people, and most classes are standard." Another senior felt the "liberation" was available but required strong individual
initiative, particularly for science majors struggling to get into overcrowded courses. "It may have (Continued on page 10)
