On the campus ——

It is no small feat to demand equal rights with a smile, but the ladies of the Women’s Center have
done just that. If you threw away your copy of Airborne (their entry into the Davidson media business), go rustle
one up and read it through. You’ll like it. “Our flyer flies. Fold on dotted lines.” I did and it
does. “The coffee is hot every morning at ten...Come read your mail and ours.” It is and you should. They
subscribe to the Wall Street Journal and the New Yorker, good reading during your ten o’clock break.

Over the weekend, housing porch furniture ballyhoo they sponsored a somewhat tongue-in-cheek outdoor exhibit. “Porches,” they christened it, “in the
tradition of ‘Rooms’” (last year’s Gallery exhibit of rooms qua art). We paid them a call last Saturday, taking care
to stay off President Spencer’s lawn next door, arriving before the judging began and closely inspected the entries. (1) A
battered chair. (2) A swing. (3) A love seat. (4) A place setting on a ratty card table. (5) A
porch/attic, complete with rug, furniture, bicycles (upturned), mop, firewood, and Pete the dog. Official Judge Herb “Earth Wind and Fire”
pronounced number (1) the winner of the competition. We supposed it was because Pete the dog had abandoned the easy
chair in (5).

If you missed the contest, don’t feel left out completely. The gals are busy making the Women’s Center the campus’
focal point for viviparous topics and have started up their year’s calendar of speakers. Check the Campus Calendar for this
Sunday’s and Wednesday’s dialogues, and make some free time after dinner to hear them.

The new drug store paraphernalia law

Paraphernalia: Law formerly, property or possessions given over to the control and possession of a wife. Or so says Webster’s
New World about paraphernalia and the law. As of 1 October 1981, that description became even more dated. Over the
summer, the NC legislators enacted into law a bill outlawing all drug-related paraphernalia: (General Statute 90-113.15 to 113.19, just in
case your GS book is handy), making possession a misdemeanor punishable by up to $500 and a year in jail.
If it strikes you that you're likely to get a stiffer sentence for the clips and rolling papers than what’s
clipped and rolled, you’re right. Beginning to get the idea?

We gave the Assistant Attorneys General a call in Raleigh to find out just what is going down in the
world of jurisprudence. It was tougher than you might at first think. Mike Carpenter, NC Assistant Attorney General / Special
Prosecution Division, was out of town. Joan Byers and Dan Higgins, also in the NCAAGSPD, were simply out. We were
referred to Tom Moffit in Environmental Protection — it seems he prepared a brief just last week invoking the new
law. He, of course, was out.

“Explain, if you’re pre-law, why Environmental Protection was prosecuting paraphernaliacs. A good question to expect on the next round of
LSATs.

Having good sense we re-rang Joan B., who was still out for the second day (in court, to boot), and
settled for her secretary, who was helpful enough. She read from the statute: no blenders, bowls, mixers, spoons; envelopes, rolling
papers, clips, or balloons (meter added).

Bongs and needles are out too, and straws if you’re prone to sniff, but all that is pretty obvious stuff.

So, what to do? Before discarding all your tweezers and baggies, take comfort in this: you’re safe as long as
no one can prove you have any intent to ever use them drug-wise, cross your heart and hope to die.

A drug user advises us that one finds alternate uses for innocuous-looking items, such as guns, rope, thumbtacks, pencils, and
calculators — just use your imagination. Sound simple enough?

See you in court.

On the right: the new Ronco pipe / potato peeler / oboe / bong / pocketknife / breathalyzer / snifter.
Strictly illegal in North Carolina. Except for the oboe.

The hound and the squirrels. A fable.

An old hound was particularly inclined to chase local squirrels. As he lived near a wood, he found plentiful victims
for his sport, taking much pleasure in nipping their furry little tails when he ran them up the oaks. The
hound cared nothing for the catch — the mere chase was entertainment enough.

The resident strict called a Grand Council Meeting to discuss the nuisance. “What shall be done about the hound menace?”
they asked themselves, “He will not accept our acorns and nuts as a peace offering, and we can hardly mount
a retaliatory chase ourselves.”

“Stay right here in the oaks," said the Grand Council Poohbah; “Stockpile all the nuts you can — enough for
the next few winters — and wait for that old hound to come back round again.”

The hound eagerly eyed the tree-bound community in the following days, waiting for some hapless squirrel to wander groundward. A
week passed. He grew restless, growling and pawing the oak trunks. Still no squirrels below.

Suddenly, thump! Thump! Thump!

Acorns began raining on his furrowed old head. The squirrel battalion was hurling its surplus victuals — with deadly accuracy
— on the disgraced hound below.

The hound ran for cover, but squirrels were everywhere and the battery was constant. Head throbbing, he hollered up: “Kind
sirs, your point is well made! Stop this pelting and I swear never to chase another squirrel. We can share
the ground peaceably.”

The squirrels laughed back: “You foolish old hound! We have no need to leave these trees. We are content just
where we are.”

Dave Banks is Executive Editor of the Davidsonian.
