Twin pianists to perform Wednesday —

by Anne Goodwin ‘84

This coming Wednesday, 28 October, Richard and John Contiguglia will be playing the piano in Love Auditorium at 8:15 PM.
Senior Margaret Holt may know these two men best as her uncles, but their fame outside Davidson rests on their
skill as duo-pianists.

The Contiguglias are identical twins. They began playing the piano together when they were five and gave their first public
performance together at the age of six. From there the brothers went on to study music together through their school
years and four years at Yale.

After their graduation from Yale, the duo studied in London with Dame Myra Hess, a renowned British pianist. Their London
debut in October 1962 met with critical acclaim and their career was launched.

The Contiguglias have devoted much time to the discovery and performance of neglected or lost masterpieces by such composers as
Bartók and Liszt, who has been a favorite of theirs since childhood. In 1969, they discovered in the British Museum
over 100 transcriptions of Liszt for two pianists.

After this find, they began to search libraries, museum archives, and old music stores all over the world for copies
of these out-of-print works. In 1975, the Liszt Society of Budapest, Hungary, awarded the Contiguglia brothers the Grand Prix for
their recording of Liszt’s transcription of Beethoven’s symphonies.

Another fascination for the duo has been the work of the legendary pianist-composer Percy Grainger. The Contiguglia brothers met Grainger
when he came to their hometown to give a recital. At the age of twelve, they were asked to perform
a group of two-piano works during the middle of the program. Grainger was so impressed that he sent them a
pile of his two-piano music inscribed “to my gifted colleagues... in tonal fellowship.” Grainger’s work has remained a staple in
the Contiguglias’ repertoire.

Tickets to see this duo, which Edward Tatnall Canby of Audio Magazine has called “the most profoundly musical pair of
piano virtuosi of this century,” are on sale at the Union Box Office. Tickets for students, faculty, and staff are
$1.00 in advance and $2.00 at the door. The Cultural Events Committee, which is sponsoring the concert, will also be
selling season tickets for their three shows. These passes will cost students $2.00.
