by man. It is the only system that fully protects

Capitalism is the best social system ever devised: a

system that protects individual rights, i.e., the rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. In its unadulterated

form, capitalism requires the separation of the state and the economy. It must be distinguished from other systems which call for government control: socialism and fascism. To the extent that these systems allow government intervention, they restrict individual liberty.

Capitalism recognizes the right of the individual to own property; a right essential for the pursuit of material and spiritual values, i.e., for the pursuit of happiness. Within a society, these rights may be violated only by the initiation of force. The government serves merely to enforce objective laws which protect individuals from force initiated by others. Within a country, the government maintains a police force and a judicial system; internationally, it organizes a defense against foreign aggression. Capitalism, therefore, limits the sphere of government authority. Contrast this with the statist systems: socialism and fascism.

Let me define my terms:

Fascism — a governmental system with strong centralized power, permitting no opposition or criticism, controlling all affairs of the nation (industrial, commercial, etc.).

Statism — the principle or policy of concentrating extensive economic, political, and related controls in the state at the cost of individual liberty.

Socialism — a theory or system of social organization which advocates the vesting of the ownership and control of the means of production, capital, land, etc., in the community as a whole.

Notice that socialism and fascism are variants of statism, i.e., they both call for government controls at the expense of individual liberty.

The distinguishing issue is the treatment of property rights. Both statist systems deny these rights, socialism—explicitly and fascism—implicitly. Observe that fascism does not explicitly forbid private ownership of property; but it does deny the right of the individual to control or dispose of his property. To own without control is a contradiction in terms. If I “own” an apple, but the government tells me that I must allow another individual to eat it, then I do not own the apple.

Unfortunately, today’s intellectuals (e.g., college professors and journalists) do not present the choice between capitalism and statism, freedom and dictatorship, or individualism and collectivism. Instead, they offer two versions of a mixed economy, i.e., a compromise between freedom and controls. Superficially, they seem to advocate opposing systems, but a closer examination will reveal the horrifying similarities.

The conservative intellectuals advocate state-supported business. This involves granting privileges and subsidies to some “special” or “vital” business concerns (usually powerful corporations) at the expense of other business interests. By awarding public works or defense contracts, dictating regulations, providing loans, subsidizing industries, and employing other such measures, the government has a tremendous influence on which businesses will succeed or fail. This approach represents an inclination toward the fascist version of statism.

The liberal intellectuals preach some version of the welfare state which favors the unproductive at the expense of the productive. These liberals launch noble crusades to provide food, housing, jobs, and medical care for the “needy.” However, these “do-gooders” ignore the rights of the individuals who oppose but must pay for such programs. Obviously, this approach represents a move towards the socialistic variant of statism.

Both groups of intellectuals claim that their programs promote the “common good,” but they disagree on the means to achieve this end. The conservatives argue that the government must intervene to stimulate those productive interests that are essential for the well-being of society. The liberals profess to defend the interests of the oppressed. Both groups accept that government intervention in economic affairs is necessary. Furthermore, they see no problem with backing their decrees with the legalized force of the government. The rights of the individual are sacrificed for the “benefit” of society.

Capitalism, the only system which does not require sacrificial victims, is obscured by the false alternative presented by the intellectuals. Under capitalism, men cooperate and trade by voluntary consent to the mutual benefit of all parties involved. (Notice that man is viewed as an end in himself, not as the means to the end of others.) Force, initiated either by the government or by individuals, is forbidden. In economic transactions, the final arbiter is the rational judgment of each individual, not the point of a gun.

Nineteenth-century America represents the closest mankind has ever come to achieving a capitalistic system. But even then, the statist element of government intervention to aid business was present. This does not have to be. True laissez-faire capitalism can be realized, but men must choose to discover it.