— Film reviews by Nick Graham

**On the Waterfront & Ordinary People**

This week, Fine Films comes up with one of the jewels in the crown of classic American cinema, Elia Kazan’s *On the Waterfront*. It should require little enough recommendation from me to make you see the film that established Marlon Brando as a star and helped to revitalize Hollywood at the height of the dream-factory’s struggle against its neophyte rival, the small screen of television.

The story is set in the grim world of the New Jersey dockland and concerns the life of a corrupt union official who rules his proletarian kingdom with a ferocity unequalled by any of the robber-barons of industrial capitalism. In this particular jungle, the law of survival is to conform — or else. Dissenters among workers are intimidated to the point of violent death, and the life of the proles is ruthlessly controlled by the forces of organized labor from the cradle to the grave.

Enter into this situation Brando, playing a woefully inarticulate longshoreman, a typical outsider in a world of almost overdone alienation. His struggle towards some recognition of his own worth, his position in the world of the waterfront, and the idea of a restructured, benign unionization make up the meat of the film. As such, the major strength of the story is probably the brutally honest way in which working-class life in the United States was portrayed, a real breakthrough in terms of what was and was not permissible on the Hollywood screen.

This feature hence also makes for an interesting comparison with *The Quiet One* shown two weeks ago, a film made only a few years earlier but hardly its equal in terms of political sophistication or artistic development. Similarly, *On the Waterfront* bears up well in comparison with Elia Kazan’s later feature *East of Eden* (shown last term, full marks to Bob Trobich for careful programming) where the image of the youthful outsider is drawn almost definitively in cinema by James Dean.

The two performances complement each other well, and it is in this dimension that I would venture to suggest that the significance and subject matter of *On the Waterfront* truly resides. Brando’s performance brought with it a new kind of acting to the screen as well as a new image of alienated urban youth — one which is with us still thirty years after the event. (Pauline Kael claims to have first seen Brando in the Broadway production of this title, and arriving late during Brando's soliloquy was convinced that the actor was suffering from epilepsy on stage.) Joking aside, this performance by Brando is part of every American’s birthright, or should be, and stands up to repeated viewing. There are in fact those who await his “Contender” speech with the same sort of expectation reserved for certain lines in *Casablanca*. The film boasts fine performances all around.Particularly from Rod Steiger as the union boss. Go to Love Auditorium on Wednesday the 21st of October at 8:00 pm.

On a vaguely related, and rather curious note, can anybody supply an etymology for the name “Marlon”? Most dictionaries of Christian names tend only to refer the reader to Mr. Brando’s publicity agent rather than to his parents. I’ve always thought that it sounds like an obscure product of Dupont Chemicals.

Tonight’s Pop Films continue their season of blockbusters with last year’s hit and winner of more Academy Awards than I can remember, Ordinary People. Robert Redford’s much-vaunted directorial debut comes to Love Auditorium at 8:00 & 10:30 pm. I have to confess at the outset that I was probably the only person of my acquaintance not to be immensely impressed by this film the first time around. In spite of excellent performances by the three principals and a frequently overlooked tour de force by the family shrink, I found that the film finally left me lukewarm to cold.

Granted, it is entirely possible that every average middle-class American family is a seething cauldron of repressed neurosis and Oedipal hatred, but the assumption made by many people, that this immediately made the film an important and valid work of cinematic art, seemed to me somewhat unjustified. In practice, I found that it all reminded me rather too closely of Woody Allen’s Interiors debacle. Like that film, it attempted to be obscurely profound but merely ended up being infuriatingly shallow, at best tendentious. Put another way: how many families do you know that are actually like that? I suspect that Ingmar Bergman has no need to look to his laurels yet by any means.

It is one thing to re-write Sartre and claim that “Hell is ordinary people,” but when one chooses to illustrate this with material derived from low-rating soap opera, then one leaves oneself open to ridicule of a cruel kind. Still, I am doubtless in the wrong—Academy Awards are quite an intimidating recommendation in themselves—and the film is almost worth seeing for the sake of Mary Tyler Moore's exquisitely mannered performance as the wife and mother of our typically dysfunctional nuclear family.

As a parting shot, I confess that I found infuriating and intrusive Redford’s repeated use of the rainbow motif in a subliminal way throughout the film. They are all over the place. Amuse yourself by trying to spot them. Go along with everybody else and see it anyway: it seems that Caliban is pleased by what he thinks is his reflection in the glass. Exit Graham beneath a transatlantic cloud.

For all two of you who have been waiting since last week, breath bated, to discover the name of the ladies’ jazz ensemble in the original version of Some Like It Hot, they were called “The Alpine Violets.” Hardly worth waiting for, was it? Well, nobody’s perfect.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 16 October 1981