Friday 25 September 1981

-DAVIDSONIAN

page 7

Nick Graham reviews

A Man For All Seasons; Oh God

“A Man For All Seasons”

Fine Films continue their fall season this week with the film adaptation of Robert Bolt’s much-feted stage-play A Man For
All Seasons, which is showing in Love Auditorium on Wednesday 30 September at 8.00 pm. The presence of this feature
on the schedule evidently means that historical drama of this sort enjoys a far higher regard in the United States
than in Britain. Back home, one generally finds the BBC trotting out Renaissance extravaganza on Christmas Day to an audience
sated by the Queen’s Speech and a surfeit of cranberry sauce. This should not necessarily detract from the virtues of
the film, however; the most remarkable of them being a superb performance by Paul Schofield in the role of the
imperfect courtier of King Henry VIII, Sir (Saint if you’re Roman Catholic) Thomas More.

The action hinges upon a conflict of loyalties in More between his conscience as a member of the Catholic church
and his courtier’s instinct for political survival at any price. The point being that England’s rotund plenipotentiary, in between disposing
of wives, writing ‘Greensleeves’, dissolving the monasteries, and generally behaving in the way that English monarchs are expected to behave,
wishes to have himself declared the Supreme Governor of the Church in England. More, his Catholic soul warning him that
this usurpation of the Pope’s power will eventually lead to such unnatural excesses as free thinking, trade unions, and creeping
Presbyterianism, naturally demurs and Henry regretfully sends him to the chopping block.

This makes for powerful political drama, even when history is falsified—as it must be for the sake of a watchable
film. Unfortunately, Bolt does not really leave us to make up our own minds about More’s character and motives. There
is fuel enough here for the conventional view that More was an honest man ruined by a corrupt king and
his power-mad lackeys. Equally, with a cursory knowledge of the historical situation, one can emerge from the film convinced that
Thomas was a self-seeking hypocrite with an eye for the main chance, ultimately unequipped for the realities of everyday political
life in the 16th Century. There is a distinct aura of whitewash about the way that he is portrayed; perhaps
it is the fact that Schofield manages to look insufferably benign for most of his time on screen.

Among an excellent supporting cast are Susannah York as More’s daughter, who numbers among her many charms Latin conversation, and
Keith Michell who conforms admirably to the usual image of Henry as a dissipated loudmouth. The direction by Fred Zinnemann
portrays a suspiciously sanitized English Renaissance and, providing one does not make the mistake of regarding it all as being
the way it really was, the film is both charming and conscience-stirring and should appeal to a wider audience than
the inhabitants of Ye Olde Humes.

Tonight’s Pop Film is Oh God, a comedy starring George Burns as a distinctly senescent Supreme Being and John Denver
as his latter-day disciple who fishes for souls in a supermarket. One thing inexplicably puzzling to an Englishman is why
so many American churches should choose to vilify the harmless Life of Brian while Mr. Burns’s nonagenarian antics apparently pass
muster; put it down to transatlantic ignorance of American ways if you will. Those of you who regard it as
God’s will that American F-14s should shoot down Libyan planes would, however, do well to remember this. One of Colonel
Qaddafi’s less publicized projects is the shooting of a film of the life of the Prophet. Such is the reverence
with which Muhammad is regarded that no actor is actually permitted to impersonate him on screen. The subject of this
particular biopic remains safely outside shot throughout the film.

At the Visulite
During the late Sixties/early Seventies, a number of British filmmakers were producing features of high quality and extreme political commitment.
The finest of these was undoubtedly Winstanley, the historically accurate story of a commune during the English Revolution (also known
as the English Civil War—apparently in American history these events are not quite the same thing). Showing at the Visulite
from Sunday to Tuesday is Morgan! (English subtitle A Suitable Case for Treatment), an early example of this movement, and
a very fine film too. Starring Vanessa Redgrave during the early days of her flirtation with revolutionary politics, it details
the break-up of a marriage in then-contemporary Britain with a satirical venom which is at once humorously appealing and politically
motivated—a difficult balance to strike, and one which this feature manages commendably. As I recall, husband David Warner moves out
and takes to living in a parked car, muttering various Trotskyite-Messianic delusions (“I’m waiting for the ice-pick”). A rare chance
to see a much-neglected political film with some fine playing. An added enticement is the fact that it is in
double-bill with Hal Ashby’s black-comedy classic Harold and Maude. If you're intending to see just one half of this double-bill,
I recommend that you make a night of it and stay for both.
