**The Davidsonian**

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

The next Trustees’ meeting

When will there be serious questioning of sexist admissions?

This past weekend, in case you missed it, the Trustees paid a visit to Davidson. They were here for what
was primarily a social meeting, but they did hear Dr. John Griffith, the director of admissions, give a progress report
on a study the Trustees permitted him to undertake last spring.

No one knows yet what Dr. Griffith is going to conclude from his study, but some people are excited about
it because Dr. Griffith is expected to have something to say about Davidson’s sexually discriminatory admissions policy. In fact, he
was supposed to have had something to say about our admissions policy two weeks ago at an open meeting of
the faculty, but he cancelled the appearance. Dr. Griffith’s sudden cancellation and his decision to keep the details of his
study secret indicate that he feels he is dealing with some touchy material. And this should make us feel cautiously
glad, for Dr. Griffith’s keeping a low profile might be a sign of his having something controversial to say —
namely, that the time has come to seriously challenge the 2:1 male/female ratio.

Ever since Davidson went coed, the Trustees have tinkered with the ratio, but they have never changed it dramatically. The
ratio has gradually become fairer — that is, it has allowed the admission of increasing percentages of women — but
never have the Trustees even hinted at establishing a timetable for adopting a non-discriminatory admissions policy.

When the Trustees next come to visit, during the winter, Dr. Griffith will have completed his study. We should hope
that he will recommend dramatic changes in the male/female ratio, dramatic enough to make the Trustees sit up and take
notice.

Last spring a majority of the faculty signed a petition calling for equal access admissions. We should hope that they
will regain their fervor by the next Trustee visit so that they might convince the Trustees that there is some
urgency in reforming sexist policy. What an exciting time it would be to live at Davidson when the College finally
considers ridding itself of its most obvious blemish.

On the —

with Dave! Banks

A friend, who fancies herself something of a poet, sends us these:

My hero? Well that we have

Most of the boys in Miss Margaret Parker’s second grade class did not want to be stevedores. Not a single
one, in fact, except for little Billy. But little Billy said he wanted to be a stevedore just to get
attention. He thought hoisting the sail...

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 October

My junkie, during my first year of prep school was Mr. Helens. Mostly I remember her as a good-eater and
a bit of a prankster. I heard she went a little crazy.

I gazed at her tanned skin, her liquid eyes, her functioning rudder... I could nail her to a two-by-four.

Offal? Never! That’s what Mom cried the first time I offered to make dinner... I was about seven, as I
recall.

The Vomit Raisers, with Buffie. First, you start kissing real hard — you know, like you’ve seen your mom and
the TV dinner man do when you come home from school — and peek in her room and slip on
her hairpiece for just that extra get-off. Next, you force your tongue down your date’s throat, like a magazine in
a mailbox. This causes her to gag. Swallowing the subsequent bile, you are provoked to reply in kind. This sort
of give-and-take regurgitation is best carried on by accomplished vomit enthusiasts.

It was real live this time and the world was all spinning. Suzette brought home the wine and the cheesemelts.
Although she had never met him before, she had heard on the grapevine about Pic.
