page 22 DAVIDSONIAN Friday 18 September 1981

The Great White North
James Barrat ’83

JOHN F. KENNEDY BELCHED LONG AND LOUD WITHIN his shack, its loose tin roof reverberating through the early morning camp.
Mosquitoes rose and settled, fat and sedentary with last night’s blood.

“You make me sick,” muttered Funsten disdainfully from his slouch by the fire.

“You make me sick,” returned John F. Kennedy, the voice from the shack.

“You both make me sick,” I declared with exaggerated contempt, and crossed the camp to stir the oatmeal which spat
angrily from atop the Coleman. Tempers were short at campsite.

Minutes later Funsten and I spun and whirled, hitching down Route 9 to Kenai. We had left John F. still
spooning his oats at the camp and set out on our morning rounds to the five neighboring salmon canneries. As
we gamboled down the highway our minds held a single thought and all other considerations were means to our objective:
work.

James Funsten and I had journeyed 5,000 miles (the last thousand we had hitchhiked) to find jobs in the Salmon
Capital of Alaska, Kenai, and spend the season working in the area. Upon setting up camp in Kenai we had
resolved to rise daily at dawn and hitch to the two canneries across the Kenai River, the two we liked
best. Arriving there before eight a.m. we would inquire about the hiring scene, showing our eager faces in a calculated
effort, and then return across the river to check in on the three canneries nearest our camp before nine.

A week had passed and no luck. Cannery officials met our inquiries with mixed interest. While most were encouraging and
assured us our persistence would pay off, others groaned at our daily visits and undoubtedly viewed the transient labor force
that annually descended on Kenai as an unwelcome but inevitable plague. Nevertheless, as eight a.m. approached we could be found
bleary-eyed on the highway, trying to muster a cheerful demeanor with which to assail our prospective employers.

Lately our nearness in reaching our goal had become painfully sweet. The day before, Rick, a foreman at Sea Catch
Inc., had actually told us to call him after hours to see if he needed extra hands on the glazing
crew. The glazing crew, we had seen, worked in a cold, wet corner of the processing plant, a huddled cluster
bundled up beyond recognition who, with machines, did something useful to frozen fish. Just what we couldn’t determine, but it
looked like hell. Regardless, with forty dollars between us and half a world away from home, joining those frozen forms
was a very appealing prospect.

“I can’t promise anything,” Rick told me on the phone, “but stop by tomorrow morning.” And we did. We cornered
the foreman in the frosty whirl of a freezer room, clipboard in hand, surrounded by shelves of frozen salmon, taking
names I supposed. Rick recognized us with a quick glance, his face contorted with the cold, motioned for us to
follow him, and set off at a brisk clip through the glazing plant. Perhaps his pace wasn’t meant to lose
us in the ensuing labyrinth, but I couldn’t help but notice his look of surprise as Funsten and I fell
into his office on his heels.

Rick had the look of a troubled man, partly, we were to learn, because of the precariousness of his position
within the unstable Sea Catch hierarchy, and also because he had two people in his office he couldn’t find jobs
for. Rick had a reputation for over-hiring in his department and was aware of the delicacy of his situation. He
was waiting for the axe to fall.

“Sorry fellas,” he shrugged, “I don’t have anything for you today.” We were crushed. “But I’ll keep you on my
list,” he concluded, scratching a note on his pad. I noticed he penciled ‘healthy’ beside our names. This, we guessed,
was as opposed to ‘unhealthy’, ‘maimed’, or ‘deranged.’ Though this type of personnel grading was new to us, it was
useful for the canneries to keep.Tabs on which of their employees could be counted on for the whole season. There
is a very high turnover rate among seasonal labor in Kenai, and while we were there we saw dozens pack
it in and head south for more temperate climes. However, “healthy” or not, we were dejected and turned to leave.
At that moment, a young man bearing a strong resemblance to Jimi Hendrix burst into the room. He talked fast,
was quick and lively, and in the blur of the next few minutes, Ron Zie, our new foreman, had snatched
us from the masses of Alaska’s transient unemployed and put our anxiety at ease. Ron was Sea Catch’s Floor Foreman
and put us to work in the Salmon processing line. Initially trained as fish ‘slitters’, we gradually learned to perform
other functions on the processing floor, more commonly called the ‘slime line’. From that day hence, we were relieved to
be “slime liners” for the duration of the season at $5.50 an hour and time-and-a-half overtime.

James Barrat is a junior philosophy major from Shepherdstown, West Virginia, and opinions editor of the Davidsonian. James spent the
summer traveling and worked in a salmon cannery on the Kenai Peninsula in Alaska.

While away for the three months, you missed two surprises here in North Mecklenburg. The first surprise, Davidson-the-College disappeared temporarily,
leaving Main and Concord a bit deserted. It seems that while everyone was summering at his favorite coastal spot, there
was, alas, no one to keep an eye on the College. So it vanished, simple and neat.

“Oh ho!” you are thinking. “The perceiver and the perceived. The nice people in the philosophy department warned me this
might happen and I just thought it was hokum. Was I ever naive.” But that, of course, is only the
official explanation of the event. A friend gives us a wittier version:

Mid-June, everybody got to thinking it could stand a bit of retouching. So they sent it back to the manufacturer
to do a little touch-up. Postage was steep, you can bet, and some parking lots were lost or damaged in
transit. Took all six weeks, all in all. Surprisingly though, no one in town missed it.

Surprising indeed: Davidson-the-College fancies itself as the centerpiece of Davidson-the-Town, but there are more than a handful of stifled in-town
cheers each June. We came across this piece, to make the point, in The Village Green, Moreland H. Hogan, 17
September 1978, by one:

The barbarians have returned: hirsute, weirdly patched, modishly dirty, and driving expensive chariots. Three months without them and we had
almost forgotten their tribal rites and distinctive costumes. Davidson dozed through a peaceful summer with uncrowded sidewalks and relatively safe
streets. Best of all, we lived without their noise—the cacophonous howls they misname music.

Town vs. gown is an ancient grudge match, played for centuries in hundreds of places and continued for the most
part by the town side, which is after all the home team. The barbarians, now gownless, are regarded with astonishment
and amusement and occasionally hostility by the locals. We are aware, however, that they bring some cash, which perhaps makes
up for the fact that they're the only local industrial product that gets out of the town before it is
finished.

But for now, student and alma mater are happily reunited, and everyone welcomes the new freshmen—the Davidson rookies. Which brings
up surprise number two. Bo Derek, John Lennon, Mae West, and Ron Reagan have enrolled! See for yourself. They’re in
the 1981 Wildcat Handbook posing under convincing pseudonyms. When we enquired at the Dean of Students’ office, they admitted that
“it was difficult to get them. We had to offer them full scholarships to come.” But will Ron be playing
a little football for the Cats? “No, well, he’s really just here for the academics mostly.”

So then, a happy catch for the admissions office. Best of luck Ron, but keep your fingers crossed—you never know
when your student aid will be cut or your work-study hours tripled.

Dave Banks is executive editor of the Davidsonian.
