Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

te ea ah: Saber.
‘Soest
i te;

cided to dress differently
“from” the Davidson norm.
Having lived in Pakistan, I have a
complete outfit of native attire, and I

One day two weeks ago I de-

didn’t think it would be a big deal to

wear it to classes, meals, etc. Well, it
wasn’t, except for a few small groups
who thought I was strange, a super-
freak, or a clown. Having heard a few

laughs and snickers behind my back, I

am writing this in response.

Come on! Where have you been
all your lives? Why is Davidson so

caught up in following the styles and

standards of the South? How boring!
If everyone dressed alike — which is

what the preppy look seems to propo-

gate — we’d all be clones. Seriously,
how many alligators and topsiders can
you count in a day? Why would any-
one want to wear the same style of
shirt with the same logo as a million
other preps? Whatever happened to
variety?

The South is not where the styles
and attitudes are at. I think the South
is a cultural backwash compared to
the West and the North. Styles here
are decades behind the West. The
prep look, remember, is from the
’50s. The style is also evident in
Beach Music, the teeny-bopper an-
thems of the ’50s.

Anyone who’s spent time out
west will know what I’m talking
about. The average length of hair on

men is at least below the collar. How

would you react if you saw a girl
wearing a black leather jacket and
cut-offs, with ornate tattoos over her
legs and breasts? This is a common
sight in many a western bar. You

might also see a group of Hare Krish-

na disciples sitting by the roadside in

bright orange robes. The people who

stared at me the other day would be

utterly shocked at examples of dress

commonly found outside the peri-

phery of Davidson and their home
towns. Isn’t college supposed to ex-

pose us to diverse cultures? Whatever
happened to enlightenment?

I hope you readers will not as-
sume that I am making a general accu-
sation against anyone wearing Izod
shirts or topsiders. I am addressing in
particular those who laughed at me
for wearing Pakistani clothes. It
seems to me that anyone making auto-
matic judgments about another’s
clothing — i.e. weirdo, hippy —
would do well to get a grip on reality.
You sure won’t find reality trapped in
idealistic surroundings of our tradi-
tion-bound school.

Eric Long is a junior economics
major from Arlington, Virginia, who
lived for several years in Pakistan.

Pakistani beach music prep enjoys an SAE tacky party outside Islamabad.

page 217 DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 October 1981

ALSO ONL vy daly NEP PANE WAI oY ne