10—The Davidsonian—February 6, 1981

In veritate magna vis

This past big weekend brought back memories of what things were like when we matriculated at STATE U. Visions of imported girls danced in our heads (and beds) but we also recalled some of the problems. Just in case you ever have a chance to get lucky and kick your roommate out, here are a few of the pointers we learned. Of course, we recognize that nothing like this ever goes on here at Davidson Junior High, but just in case:

If you are the one being bored:
1) Don’t come back at 3 a.m. and try to walk into the room. If the door’s open, you'll feel like a jerk. And if it’s locked you'll walk into it and make enough noise to wake up the whole hall.
2) If you know about it in advance, you can take advantage of your roomie. Drink his beer and make him pay for food from Peregrine. After the weekend when he tries to get you to pay him back just keep talking about how little sleep you got and how exhausted you are.
3) Wait until about 11 or 12 to take a shower. It’s always a good idea to call the room first and see if it’s okay to get your Prell.
4) Be nice to the person on whose account you’re being punted for. If you act rudely, he or she will develop a complex and feel guilty, making an awful weekend for your roomie.
5) Line up other accommodations for yourself. There are always losers on the hall who never have dates and will let you sleep on their floor or couch. Act early because this floor and couch space are valuable commodities with so many breathers vying for them. Take all your shampoo, soap, and clothes with you.
6) If both you and your roommate have dates then there’s always the Days Inn. Why do you think it’s there? Try calling one big weekend and see how many vacancies there are. If you're really lucky and make reservations a year in advance you can get a spot in the Guest House (otherwise known as the Den of Inequity). Watch out for Will though, he poses as a mild-mannered maid and snoops around over there on Sunday mornings.

IF YOU ARE EMULATING RAY GUY AND PUNTING YOUR ROOMIE:
1) Before you go out in the hall the next morning use a dab of Brylcreem. You won't believe how messed up your hair can get during the night. A little dab will do you up right so you can eliminate one of those tell-tale signs.
2) Untangle the hair on your belly-button—that’s telltale sign number two.
3) Take off those gym shorts you put on for her benefit—nobody really wears gym shorts to the shower.
4) Put your roommate’s pillow back on his bed.
5) You'll need a place for him/her to take a shower unless you want to sit out in the hall on the floor and guard the door. The girls on first Cannon are quite accommodating.
6) Pull down the shades.
7) Lock the door (deadbolt, too). Be tactful about this one. Don’t say, “I think I'll lock the door now.”
8) Get new sheets before your date arrives (and after if you’re Carpy).
9) Clean up the room and the closet for your date to hang up clothes.
10) Turn off the alarm the jerks across the hall set for 4 a.m.
11) Contact Family Planning or make a trip to Cornwell Drugs.
12) (For guys) If your date happens to be from Davidson make sure you rent a Ryder truck to carry her to dinner ‘cause there is no way she will fit in your car. Stop by Lowe's and pick up a few paper bags too.We apologize to all good-looking girls at Davidson for this last assault. You know who you are—you’re cocky as hell.

IF YOU ARE A DAVIDSON COED:
1) Get out of town because no one will ask you to any festivities. Go to Hampden-Sydney or something—for directions contact Meg “I’m broke” McArn or Jane “Former V.” Alexanian. Reason you won’t get a date: The number of good-looking girls here roughly parallels the number of black faculty members.

That's all for our guide to big weekends, but there is some other news worthy of note. In case you haven’t heard or seen, there are no longer any weights in the weight room. That's because Pat Sheridan took them all up to his room. There's a sign-up sheet outside his door if you want to use them. But you’ll have to hurry because Pat and Herm eat them for snacks and Baby Herm comes over and punches a few to bits on weekends.

Last week we were shocked to read that we were no longer the IMAC writers. No, we didn’t write that column on the Intramural Athletic Council as a joke—it was too stupid. Who cares what IMAC stands for? A SPE writes that column—no wonder it isn’t funny. So read our column and not that other one unless you want to learn etymologies of anachronistic abbreviations.

You may not believe this, but our hats are off to the SIG-EPS. They handle abuse much better than the sweeties down at KA. By the way, those rules aren’t for Sherman and the rest of you poopsie-poos; you can't get dates.

Exceptional management opportunities

WE OFFER:
- Starting salary up to $18,000
- Increases over $30,000 in 4 years
- 30 days paid vacation annually
- Fully financed graduate programs
- Superior family health plan
- More responsibility and leadership opportunities
- Worldwide travel and adventure
- Prestige and personal growth potential

CURRENT OPPORTUNITIES:
- NUCLEAR ENGINEERING
- BUSINESS MANAGEMENT
- AVIATION
- NURSING
- LAW
- INTELLIGENCE
- CIVIL ENGINEERING
- SHIPBOARD OPERATIONS
- MEDICAL SCHOOL SCHOLARSHIPS

Most liberal arts majors are eligible. The Navy Officer Information Team will be on campus February 10 & 11. An information desk will be set up in the student union. To arrange an appointment, call 371-6411 collect.

“Everyone’s concerned about confidentiality when they get birth control. At Planned Parenthood, everything you say here stays here. If you think you need protection, call me before.” — Sandra Gaddy, Counselor

Low Cost and Confidential Birth Control
- Pregnancy Testing
- Problem Pregnancy Counseling
- Abortion Services

Also information on birth control, V.D., pre-natal care, and adoption at no cost. For information or appointment, call 377-0841 Monday-Friday 8:00-5:00 p.m.

Planned Parenthood
951 S. Independence at McDowell
Charlotte, N.C. 28202
377-0841

If for some reason you missed taking Army ROTC in your first two years of college, you can still take it in your last two. But only if you apply while you’re still a sophomore.

Army ROTC

Ms. Mr.
Please send me more information about the Army ROTC Two-Year Program.

Address
City
County
State
Zip
Phone
Graduation Date
College Attending

The Army ROTC Two-Year Program

In order to make up for the years you missed, you’ll have to attend a special camp in the summer before your junior year. You'll earn up to a total of $2,900 in the Two-Year Program. You'll get some good management experience. And you'll get a commission as an Army officer along with a college degree.

GET-A-WAY
Ski all day and come home to cuddle up by the fireplace in secluded hideaways in the Great Smokies. Thirty dollars for two; $35 for four nightly.

Mountain Brook Cottages
Rt. 2, Box 301, Sylva, NC
Phone 704/586-4329

THE HAIR COTTAGE
Creative hair cutting for men and women
1757 E. Rocky River Road
By appointment only
892-5107
Owner/Stylist: Jane Schenk
Stylist: Linda Caldwell