Clarification
Two weeks ago the Davidsonian stated that John Gullickson will return to school here this spring. John said he plans to return to Davidson this spring, and he might. However, he must first re-apply and be readmitted by the Executive Committee. He must re-apply because he received an indefinite suspension for allegedly stealing $15. The most common sanction is a two-term definite suspension, after which students are routinely readmitted without referral to the Executive Committee. Because sanctions are not made public, the Davidsonian could take only John’s word as to what his sanction was.

The Davidsonian regrets not having been able to report the matter with greater clarity.

SGA representatives

Students elected new SGA representatives on Tuesday and Wednesday.

Freshman class senators are Rod Holman, president; Craig Detweiler, and Warren Gould. Meg Surrat will represent Richardson, and Joe Langley and Jim Reaves are the freshman Belk senators.

Boe Young is the Belk upperclass representative, and Steve Laurence will represent Little. Joe Ford is the senator for Watts, and Anne Hurt is the new representative for Cannon.

Sentelle’s new senator is Mark Oldenburg, and Warner Hall will represent Duke. Anne Rollins is Irwin’s senator, and Knox residents elected Burt Taylor.

Off-campus representatives are Scott Eblin and Melissa McKeithen.

New fire equipment

The Physical Plant is working to upgrade fire safety equipment throughout campus. According to Philip Cashion, there are around fifty to sixty new fire extinguishers in Chambers, the Union, and Patterson Court. Workers have also added more exit signs as well as smoke detectors in the dorms. Cashion plans to add about fourteen more in the new computer center and on Patterson Court.

Dr. King’s back

Math professor L. R. King is at home recuperating after undergoing surgery to repair a herniated vertebral disc. Dr. King was released Monday from Charlotte Memorial Hospital. He was in the hospital for almost two weeks and underwent surgery Wednesday, 23 September. Department Chairman Bruce Jackson does not know when Dr. King will be able to return to the College, but said, “We’re not rushing him.” Within the next couple of weeks, Dr. King’s seminar on Graph Theory (Math 203) will probably be held at his house. Dr. Berner has absorbed Dr. King’s Math 25 class.

College Bowl

College Bowl, the fast-paced intercollegiate quiz game, will be broadcast on the CBS Radio Network this season. Time magazine will be the authenticator of its program material, supplying all questions and answers. Time will also contribute $20,000 to the College Bowl Scholarship Foundation. The money will be used for grants to all the schools that participate in the National Championship Tournament.

Twelve colleges will compete at the Illinois Institute in the first round of tapings for the CBS Radio series. The Davidson team, presently consisting of Marvin Overby ’83, John Eglin ’84, Gordon Turnbull ’83, and Brad Mullis ’83, plans to attend. According to Marvin, if the team wins three consecutive matches at this tournament, it will automatically become qualified for the national tournament.

Dr. Hansford Eppes is head coach for the Davidson team, and professors Robert Manning, Randy A. Nelson, and Charles Lloyd assist. The team is presently looking for at least one alternate. Interested persons should contact Marvin at 892-6572.

Phone hoax

Colleges nationwide were affected by a recent telephone hoax involving a false telephone credit card number. According to the 19 September Charlotte Observer, one rumor that started the hoax involved Burt Reynolds announcing on “The Tonight Show” that anyone could use his credit card number up until October 5. A Davidson student — who asked that his name not be used — received a different story that prompted his use of the number. According to this student, Burt Reynolds supposedly received unlimited credit for a month as settlement in a court case against a phone company. Reynolds was apparently unhappy with the ruling and decided to get even by publishing his credit card number in one of the daily New York newspapers.

The Observer said, according to a spokesman for the Pacific Telephone Company, the hoax is not new: “It’s attributed to a certain personality who supposedly has won $1 million in a judgment against a phone company. Since he’s so rich and such a good guy, he wants to share his wealth with his friends,” he said.

Chief Hughes honored

Chief of campus security Jackie G. Hughes was recently elected president of the North Carolina Association of Campus Law Enforcement Administrators. Chief Hughes will also be a member of the Governor's Advisory Council for Crime Control in 1982 as a part of his duties. Chief Hughes became director of the campus security force when it was formed in 1978.

Staff

Dave Banks Executive Editor
Asst News Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
James Barrett Opinions Editor
Asst. Features Editor
Production Manager
Lisa Buckley Head Compositor
John Lusk Compositor
World View Editor
Lucy Everett Calendar Editor
David Graybeal Advertising Manager
Subscription Manager
Eric Long Head Photographer
Art Editor
Jim Rumley Staff Artist
Staff Artist

Page 2 / DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 October 1981