IMAC with the Doughboys and the Slimshafts

James W.: No, it’s easy as hell.

Carolina vs. Davidson

Did you ever notice how weird Davidson people talk? Just in case you thought it was normal, we thought we'd show you how Davidson people talk and how real people talk at Chapel Hill.

Bob Belk: Hi, my name is Bob.

Hello, I’m Cathy. What hall are you on? What courses are you taking? Where are you from?

Bob: I live on 1st Belk Left Center Northwest. I didn’t get Sike 101 so I’m taking Philosophy 100. I’m from Atlanta. Well, it’s 10:30 so I’ve got to be getting to bed. Maybe I'll see you at the ROTC cookout.

Joe SPE: Did you take one today?
Joe KA: No, I’m taking one tomorrow. I’ve only got two. How many do you have?
Joe SPE: I’ve got three and then I’m outta here.

Muffy Moccasin: Sure. But let's go back to Granville Towers and party. See who can polish off a twelve pack.

Kelvin B.: Is the Geography exam hard? Here, want a copy?

Looking through the mail that accumulated over Thanksgiving, we noticed a couple of letters that we decided to pass on.

“Dear DB & SS,

Life is unfair... It never has been fair to us. We never have any fun. We want to know if we can get fun stamps. We could use them to have a real ball. If we could get fun stamps, could we get sex stamps, too? We come up short on that end as well. Would you talk to Sam Spencer and get us some?

Signed,
The KA fraternity

Memo to: Doughboys
From: John Siman

Next week we may not have space for your column. We will be running a complete paper on an inside tip that we got that Sam Spencer bought a controlling interest in Red Clay Brick Co. over the summer. They are the brick company supplying the College. But if the tip turns out to be wrong, we will just put out a dozen or so blank pages—maybe one of those stupid cartoons. Either way, the paper will come out late.

Dear DB & SS,
Stay loose.
—Ken Wood

The SGA Phonathon started this week. The goal is $2.5 million in 3 nights. Said Ken Krieg, “It is a very realizable goal. Using our Double Matching Quadruple the Dollar triple the Gift Alumni Contribution, we plan to exceed the limit. If we don’t reach it though it’s all Christian’s fault.”

Finally, there will be a party sponsored by the Doughboys and Slimshafts for all transfer students living in Irwin 204 and their roommates tomorrow night at midnight in one of our rooms. See ya.

Responsibility now! Over a drop zone, with troops on alert for every command—it’s the airborne platoon leader and jumpmaster who calls the shots. “Stand in the door!”... “Go!” Dozens of ready-for-anything paratroops leap into space. As an airborne officer, YOU can be the one who leads them.

In the Army’s airborne, leadership is a way of life. An airborne officer must have plenty of physical stamina, mental toughness, and an accumulation of management skills, all with leadership experience. Army ROTC offers the kind of training that qualifies you for the airborne’s kind of responsibility.

If the challenge of the Army’s Airborne Corps interests you, see the Professor of Military Science on your campus. The addition of Army ROTC gives any college major a special jump on leadership experience—reinforcement for your future career—military or civilian.

BE ALL YOU CAN BE.