2—The Davidsonian—February 6, 1981

News at a Glance

The Davidson College Bowl A-team placed first and the B-team third in last weekend’s UNC-Charlotte invitational tournament. Participants in the tournament were Appalachian, East Carolina, UNC-Greensboro, Wofford, Winthrop, UNC-Charlotte, and Davidson.

The SGA Career Symposium will be March 30 and 31. Last month’s influenza epidemic forced the cancellation of the symposium originally scheduled.

New chairmen of Union committees were announced this week. They will begin work Spring term. Committees in the Co-Curricular Council under Vice-President Lindsay Biddle are:
Gallery: Norwood Smith
College Bowl: Marvin Overby
Cultural Events: John Thomas
Fine Films: Bob Trobich
Campus Forum: John Eley
Speakers: Sherman Allen

Committees in the Social Council under Vice-President Jonathan West are:
Concert: Dana Bolton
Dance: Jean Soracco
Dorm Social: Ellen Gyauch
Games: Mike Goode
Intimate Performances: James Funsten
Outing: Mark Elmore and Bob Bruce
Pop Films: Jeff Herrin

The Union is also seeking a chairman for a newly-formed International Committee, according to President Ann Parker.

Lieutenant General Harry Griffith, commander of the Defense Nuclear Agency, will talk with students at Coffee and Cokes next Thursday, February 12 at 10 a.m. in the Gallery. Griffith will focus on issues relating to military preparedness, nuclear weapons, and the draft. He is the father of sophomore Paul Griffith.

The Davidson Town Board will hold a public meeting next Tuesday at 7 p.m. to explain the current status of negotiations between the towns of Davidson, Cornelius, and Huntersville and the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Utilities Department (C-MUD). Three years ago the towns agreed to tie into a county-wide sewage treatment system at the new MacDowell Creek plant near Huntersville. The controversy arose when C-MUD announced it would charge the towns a rate double the rate charged to customers within Charlotte city limits. Such a rate increase would “certainly affect the College,” Mayor Nancy MacCormac said. The towns have so far refused to accept C-MUD’s proposed rates. However, Huntersville and Cornelius have been forced into the system because of the expiration of their own sewage plant licenses. Davidson is now the only town not served by the MacDowell Creek plant. The meeting will be in the Town Hall beside the town police station.

The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) has reopened licensing proceedings for Duke Power Company’s McGuire nuclear plant, located five miles from Davidson. The order to reopen proceedings is a result of the work of the Carolina Environmental Study Group (CESG). CESG has charged that McGuire’s containment wall cannot withstand the pressures which would be generated by a hydrogen explosion inside the plant, that such an explosion is possible, and that no adequate environmental impact study or crisis relocation plan has been developed. A public litigation group affiliated with Ralph Nader is also involved in the proceedings, according to CESG Board member Sarah Wilson. A public hearing before the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board of the NRC will begin at 9:30 a.m., February 24, in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Public Library auditorium, 310 North Tryon Street, Charlotte, Wilson said. Members of the public will be able to make statements at this hearing.

Newspapers rarely observe anniversaries. But this one is worthy of note: One year ago, on February 5, 1980, the College was plunged into pre-Industrial Revolution darkness by a power failure. Students decided to amuse themselves by building what was to become the Great Davidson Bonfire. Enjoy the reminiscences.

Our apologies to photographers Jonathan Keith and Mark Widick who were not given proper credit for their work in last week’s Davidsonian. Keith took the women's basketball picture on page 6, and Widick that of Dean of Students Will Terry on page 1.

Is your eating house sanitary?
By TIM WHALEN
Assistant News Editor

[Editors’ note: Tim Whalen acquired a copy of the North Carolina sanitation regulations. This report is based on his unofficial investigation.]

Patterson Court fraternities and eating houses would probably pass North Carolina State Health Department sanitation inspections. Court houses are not subject to the Health Department regulations because they are private clubs as defined by State sanitation regulations. Even the least sanitary of the court houses would probably receive a grade “B” if inspected. Food serving establishments must merit at least a grade “C” to be licensed.

There are several areas where court houses would not be in compliance with the regulations. The law requires that all dishwashing sinks have three compartments furnished with hot and cold running water and “splash back protection.” Court houses use two compartment sinks as well as three compartment sinks for dishwashing. No court sinks have splash back protection. The law requires that the third sink compartment be used for bactericidal treatment of dishes. Dishes must be chemically treated or immersed for one minute in water of 170 degrees F or hotter. The water temperature must be maintained by a heater attached to the compartment. No court houses disinfect dishes in this manner. The law requires all kitchen employees to wear hair restraints. Not all court cooksdo, however, and no dishwashers or waiters use them. The law requires thermometers in refrigerators, freezers, and disinfection compartments. No courthouse has such thermometers. The law does not allow establishments to use bent silverware, cracked glasses, or chipped plates. However, at least some courthouses do. The law requires that establishments be free of animals. At least one courthouse keeps a cat. Sanitation grades are based mainly on food preparation, food storage, and cleaning and disinfection of equipment and utensils. Other criteria include cleanliness and health of employees, storage of equipment and utensils, proper waste disposal, adequate toilet and lavatory facilities, and general cleanliness and neatness.

Equipment move angers students
By FRANCES PALMER
Staff Writer

The Athletic Department has moved some of the College’s weight equipment and restricted its use by students who are not members of a varsity team. The decision upset a number of students interested in weight lifting. Athletic Director Eugene Bingham said the free weights were moved from Johnston gym to the old track dressing room on the west side of Richardson field. The new weight room will be open only under the supervision of a varsity coach or faculty member. Previously the weight room was open to students at all times. Bingham said the weights were moved for “safety purposes and to avoid a lawsuit.”

Head Football Coach Ed Farrell denied reports that he requested the move, although he said “it had my vote.” He added that the varsity coaches were in agreement with the decision after a proposal by Football and Track Coach Steve Frank, who is in charge of the football team’s weight program. Farrell said the proposal had been discussed for some time. Farrell, emphasizing the importance of supervision, said the weights were moved because of liability. “Free weights are dangerous items,” he said. Farrell cited the condition in which students left the weight room as another problem which led to the move. There were “weights all over the room” when varsity teams came for scheduled workouts, he said. Theft has also caused “a great deal of trouble,” according to Farrell. He said that a donor who has given a significant amount of money for weights was concerned about the amount of money used each year to replace stolen equipment. According to Farrell, the weights were moved to the stadium once before, several years ago, but were later returned to the gym because of poor weather conditions.

Bingham said the weights remaining in the gym are adequate for those who are not on a varsity team. Sophomore George Murrell and junior Dana Bolton disagree. They said there are 30 to 40 non-varsity students who use the weight room. At least 20 lift weights on a regular basis. Bolton, who lifts weights regularly, said he knows of no injuries in the weight room. Inexperienced and less serious weightlifters were “never an inconvenience,” he added. The regular weightlifters were “pretty upset” at first about the move, according to Bolton, but he said he is willing to work with the change. Murrell is organizing a weightlifting club in response to the move. He is now searching for a faculty sponsor, although “it is tough to get someone.” Murrell said that, while he is willing to work as a club now, he feels that no faculty member knows more about weights than the students who lift regularly. The weightlifters “are adults, too,” he added, and “won’t be satisfied until they give us responsibility on our own.” If there is enough student response, Murrell thinks that “money will have to be allocated to buy students weights.” Bolton said the new location will not be a problem “as long as we're allowed to use it.”

For further information write or call G. William Climer, Jr.
Camp Thunderbird
Employment at its Best

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental and spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to help each individual child develop his or her potential should apply. One must have the ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities. College students, teachers, and coaches should apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles south of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery, and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing, and tripping are extras in our excellent program. For further information, Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 4, Box 1664A, Clover, S.C. 29710 (803-831-2121).