-| Halloween

UVA Law School — see Susie Summers in the Careers Office.

5:00 PM Gallery. Figurative paintings by Russ Warren through 1 November. Free.

6:00-8:00 PM WDAV. Mendelssohn: Piano Trio in D minor, Op. 49. Kalkbrenner: Grand Quintet for piano, clarinet, horn, cello, and bass. Quintet in C Major.

8:00 PM WDAV. The Philadelphia Orchestra. Conductor Laureate Eugene Ormandy conducts a program called “Those Fabulous Philadelphians,” with Franz Schubert's Symphony No. 8 in B minor, the “Unfinished;” Claude Debussy’s “Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun;” waltzes from “Der Rosenkavalier” by Johann Strauss, Jr.; and the Symphony No. 6 in B minor, Op. 74, the “Pathetique” by Peter Tchaikovsky.

8:00 PM Hodson Hall. Performance of “Once in a Lifetime.” Under the direction of Rupert Barber, the theatre department presents Kaufman and Hart's rollicking comedy about the advent of “the talkies” in the early ’30s. Buy tickets Monday through Friday, in the Fine Arts Building box office from two to five or immediately before each performance. $2.00 for students.

8:00 & 10:30 PM Love Auditorium. Pop film: The Shining. This classic Kubrick flick should be part of everyone’s Halloween activities. Jack Nicholson does what he’s best at — going insane — while his wife and son try to outmaneuver him. This film will keep you off-balance throughout and is not for the weak at heart. See Nick's Flicks for good reviewing. Rated R. $1.50.

Saturday the 31st

12:30 PM SPE House, 609 North Main Street. 6th annual SPE Prix road rally hits the road after lunch from the SPE house. The Prix is a contest of driving, navigating, and info-gathering skills and one of the most exciting events ever to thrill DC. Bring your own car or team up with a brother. $1.00 per car donation goes to the Heart Fund. Prizes for the best three scores. You don’t want to miss it!

1:30 PM Football vs Lehigh. Wherever that is.

2:00 PM Soccer field. DC vs Pembroke State. Here.

5:00-7:30 PM WDAV. Scott: Piano Concerto No. 1 in C major. Sor: “L’Encouragement” for Guitar Duo, Op. 34. Lalo: Concerto in D minor for Cello and Orchestra. Falla: Nights in the Gardens of Spain.

8:00 PM WDAV. The Boston Pops. Harry Ellis Dickson, in this week's concert, has chosen music by Wagner — “Entrance of the Guests” from Tannhauser; Weber's Oberon overture; the L’Arlesienne Suite No. 2 by Bizet; and more.

8:00 PM Hodson Hall. “Once in a Lifetime.” See Friday.

8:00 PM Union. Special event: One Night at the Union. At 9:00 — “Twice Told Tales;” 10:45 — Special Effects Disco; 1:00 movie — "It: The Terror from Outer Space.” Costume is required to see the early movie and to get into the disco. Hot cider and popcorn will be served at the 9:00 movie. Come join us for a special Halloween.

9:00 PM Phi Delt House. Halloween costume party. Come dance to the music and drink free beverages all night long. Prizes for the best-costumed couple and individual.

10:00 PM WDAV. Jazz with Bill Bambach. “A Hipster’s Halloween.” This trick-or-treat special features music by the Jones and Collins Astoria Hot Eight, “Spirits” by Albert Ayler, and more.

Sunday the 1st

9:45 AM Student Lounge. The Covenant Class, conducted by Professor Tony Abbott. The topic of discussion for this series is Frederick Buechner and his writings.

6:00 PM Catholic mass in Lingle Chapel.

7:30 PM DCF. Morrison Room. Many are called to the large group meetings.

8:00 PM 900 Room. Fall fashion show “Autumn Glow.” Sponsored by the BSC and the Grey Student Union.

4:00-6:00 PM WDAV. Debussy: Images, volumes I & II. Janacek: Suite for String Orchestra. Gottschalk: Symphony No. 1, La Nuit des Tropiques. Nielsen: Little Suite for Strings. Glinka: Nightingale Variations; Waltz in G Major. Graun: Concerto in G minor for Oboe, Strings, and Continuo; de Narvaez: Los Seys Libros del Delphin de Musica.

8:00 PM WDAV. Carolina Arts. Davidson Music Professor William Lawing talks with Leo Driehuys, music director of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, in this preview of the CSO’s annual Choral Concert, to take place on 4 November at 8:15 PM in Ovens Auditorium. We'll have a foretaste of the music to be heard during that upcoming concert: an all-Beethoven program, including the Symphony No. 1 in C Major and the Symphony No. 9 in D minor, the “Choral Symphony.”