Davidson’s newest philosopher

Joe Beatty’s been around

by J. David Fleming '83

Zoé rolled an apple on the desktop as her father gave her instructions on feeding the family cat. They looked
wonderful together, this twelve-year-old red-headed girl, named after the Greek word for life, and her father, the new philosophy professor
at Davidson. In front of his daughter, Joe Beatty is patient, engaging, and happy. He talks at his desk, calmly
and honestly, about her, and about a life dedicated to the ideals of the liberal education.

Schooled at LaSalle, Johns Hopkins, Haverford, and Northwestern, Mr. Beatty went on to teach at Williams, Duke, and now Davidson.
Liberal arts schools have played a major part in his life. To him, it is a perfectly respectable thing to
do, to become “emancipated from prejudices.” After one master's degree in literature and writing, Mr. Beatty began to develop a
serious interest in philosophy, especially Greek, on which he began a second master's. The Vietnam War, however, interrupted his education:
as a conscientious objector, he fought against the war rather than in it. Mr. Beatty felt the war was “politically
and morally unjustifiable” and saw “no difficulties in being ardently against it.”

He returned to finish in philosophy at Northwestern. Receiving a Kent Fellowship to Williams, he taught ethical, social, and Greek
philosophy for eight years. In 1978, Mr. Beatty was chosen to be a Fellow at the National Humanities Center. He
spent one year there, working on a book about the justification of ethical principles. After two years teaching at Duke
University, Mr. Beatty joined the expanding Davidson philosophy department and arrived this summer, finding the community to be “unbelievably hospitable.”

Bachelor father
Divorced and with joint custody of his two children, Zoé and nine-year-old Adam, Mr. Beatty has experienced both the hectic
and rewarding life of the single parent. Sometimes after delving into a great philosophical problem with students at school, he
must go home to tackle the crucial problem of “Who threw the towel on the bathroom floor and didn’t pick
it up?” But, Mr. Beatty says, “I’m wiser for having kids. There is something humanizing about it, something a parent
can learn if he’d only respect his child.”

Joe Beatty, with his beard, curly light-brown hair, and wire-rimmed glasses, is still a young-looking man, despite a surprisingly wide
range of learning and teaching experience. Around his office are various mementos and many books, a collection of African tribal
art, a computer printout of the faces of his two children, and a photograph of Albert Einstein riding a bicycle.
Mr. Beatty still possesses that youthful passion for unanswerable questions and the open eye for ideas and new theories. But
the nervous excitement of many young professors has softened into a kind of contented and deep love for his role
as father and teacher. Indeed, being a teacher of philosophy seems as natural for Mr. Beatty as being a father.

Society needs philosophers
In a Time magazine article on the National Humanities Center about two years ago, Joe Beatty made the statement that
“Society needed philosophers.” He defended that statement last week in his office: “Philosophy gives people a chance to understand better
some of the notions and convictions that propel their lives and to understand also the driving convictions of prejudice that
they should abandon. Philosophy is an attempt to scrutinize the notions of a society that make its people who they
are.” In a letter to a man who questioned Mr. Beatty’s claim in the Time article, he replied, using Plato’s
Apology, that the philosopher is like the horsefly who consistently awakens and arouses a sluggish horse. “The examination and critique
of claims to truth and rightness is the business of philosophy,” he wrote.

In an increasingly technical era, Mr. Beatty warns of the harm of transferring the right to make society’s decisions to
technicians and technocrats. The importance, he says, is not just on doing something efficiently and well, but also on being
able “to defend the good of doing it.” A man’s philosophy, likewise, can’t be summed up in the ground-level beliefs
that many people share with him. Philosophers are, instead, interested in the arguments that defend those beliefs. To grasp from
those arguments a knowledge of society’s convictions and a freedom from its prejudices is the ever-present concern of Joe Beatty.

Delivery service 7 days/week

Tonight-
Bob Johnson’s homemade spaghetti
all-you-can-eat $3.99
Beverage 25¢

MOORESVILLE-ON-AVON
(The Meeting Place In Mooresville)

Open for Sunday lunch with choice of five entrées, two vegetables, salad, and bread for $5.25.

Serving four days a week—
Thu. through Sat. from 5:30 to 10:00
Sunday from 11:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.

page 20 / DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 October 1981

The Meeting Place
259 S. Broad St. Mooresville, NC
704-663-0413
