The advisory councils — The SGA appoints new student members
by Suzanne Dickey ’84

What say do students have in what goes on at the College? Students sit on five presidential advisory councils and eleven committees and boards that develop College policy. Student committee members act as liaisons between the student body and the faculty and administration. The following are the advisory councils, their student members, and their functions.

The Admissions and Financial Advisory Council acts as an advisor to President Spencer in programs, problems, and plans for the Financial Aid and Admissions offices. Religion Professor Samuel Maloney heads the council this year. Sophomore Shannon Anderson and junior Bob Flemma are the student members. The Admissions and Financial Advisory Council also coordinates the Student Admissions Team, the SGA Admissions Committee, and the SGA Prospective Students Weekend.

The Campus and Religious Life Advisory Council is one of the most influential councils on campus. They cover almost all facets of campus life and advise the president and give recommendations pertaining to campus life. Recent discussions have been about the Commons, the Chaplain’s position, and the future of the two empty houses on Patterson Court. Student members of this council include seniors Eric Crum, Tom Marshburn, Stuart Dorsett, and Scott Smith, and juniors Buck Bradbury, Derek Harbin, Buncie Hay, and Elizabeth McMillan.

The Finance, Personnel, and Development Advisory Council has a good deal of influence. It advises the president on the College budget. SGA President Chip Legerton, senior Edith Parker, and junior Bill McFayden are on the council.

The Intercollegiate Athletics Advisory Council formulates opinions and policy in intercollegiate athletics and has as its student members juniors Chip Hurley, Scott Smith, and Victor Taylor.

The following are the boards and committees, their student members, and their functions.

The Activities Grant Board appropriates funds from its treasury for student-requested activities. The SGA vice-president, junior Chip Hurley, is a member of this board, along with the Union Board president, senior Ann Parker, the Union social vice-president, senior Jonathan West, and the Union co-curricular vice-president, junior Lindsay Biddle.

Juniors Trig Adams and Linda Brown and sophomore Hunter Monroe are the student members on the Alumni Activities Committee, which helps plan alumni get-togethers and greet alumni on visits.

Sophomore Julie Cheek, junior Sara Wheeler, and an as yet unappointed student are all on the Artists Series Committee, which plans and schedules the Artist Series performances.

Problems with student noise
Davidson town council considering noise ordinance
[Continued from page 1]

mate how long it would take to enact a noise ordinance. Mr. Lloyd said at the meeting, “The (SPE) party shook my windowpanes.” Several other residents also complained about the noise from the party.

Mayor MacCormac said, “SPE president Ralph Taylor met with town officials a week before the party. The town asked the fraternity to take certain precautions to protect their neighbors’ property.” Ralph said they cordoned off the area, hired four off-duty policemen, checked student IDs, did not serve alcoholic beverages, and did not allow glass containers. The party was on a Thursday afternoon so as to disturb as few people as possible. Cars were parked in an on-campus lot to keep Main Street clear. An alumnus drove through...the area to see if the music was excessively loud. Ralph also said that they sent letters to area residents warning them about the party. Mrs. Strough’s letter said that one resident found a letter “face down near the street,” on the morning of the party. All other residents either received no letter, or got one Friday morning, after the party. Ralph said this was because the letters were placed in the neighbors’ Observer boxes after they got their newspapers that day. Ralph also said that the letters were not required, but were sent as “a matter of courtesy.” “We really bent over backwards. Our party should serve as a precedent for parties in the future,” Ralph said. Mayor McCormac said the party was a good one, however it was noisy. 

Sophomore Jeff Mann is on the Bookstore Committee, which acts as a liaison between the bookstore and the students. The Counseling and Guidance Committee advises and assists the Dean of Students, Will Terry, and the Director of Student Counseling, William Hight, in regard to advising freshmen, and academic, vocational, and clinical counseling. Senior Ralph Taylor and sophomore Chris Gunn are on this committee. The Educational Policy Committee regulates and suggests changes in major curricula and College curriculum requirements. Senior Bill Purcell and junior Todd Cowdery are student members of the EPC. 

The International Education Committee advises the vice-president for academic affairs, T. Price Zimmerman, concerning policies regarding College programs of study abroad, international students, and activities relating to international education on campus. Student members are seniors Alice Musik and Susan Roberts. The Media Board supervises all campus publications and press releases to the public concerning the College. Senior Howard Browne, junior Ken Krieg, and sophomore Hunter Monroe are on the Media Board. The Physical Education Committee works with Sterling Martin and advises concerning personnel needs and maintains the program. Its student members are juniors Jeff Nielson and Tom Schember. 

The Public Lectures Committee plans and schedules major public lecture programs, including Union speakers. The chairman of the Union Speakers Committee, junior Sherman Allen, junior Sara Wheeler, and an as yet unappointed student serve on the Public Lectures Committee. The Student Conduct Council advises the president concerning student conduct and disciplinary procedures. They are responsible for standards in use of physical facilities, traffic and parking, and personal behavior. Its members include the SGA president, senior Chip Legerton, the SGA vice-president, Chip Hurley, the senior class president, Andy Brown, the junior class president, Tim Johnson, the sophomore class president, Julie Cheek, the freshman class president, Rod Holman, junior Bobby Barnes, and sophomore Kathleen Huff. The Union Board organizes and promotes social and cultural activities through the College Union. It has sole authority to allocate the social fee. The Union president, senior Ann Parker, the Union vice-presidents, senior Jonathan West and junior Lindsey Biddle, the chairman of the Union program committees, and one representative of the Patterson Court Council, the SGA Senate, the Residence Hall Council, and each campus organization chartered by the SGA are on the Union Board.

Mr. Charles Lloyd