6—The Davidsonian—April 24, 1981

Inside IMAC

Here are the scores that will bring things up to date:
Not Quick Enough 3, Pax 4
Art Department Armadillos 7, Pissin in the Wind 18
Master Batters 6, Perpetual Perpetrators 2
4 Joules/sec 85, Swattin Chucks 0
Ambassadors 5, Busch Boys 4
Eddie Searcher 18, Off Again 6
Skoal Brothers 12, Pax 16
Reign of Terror 6, Perpetual Perpetrators 9
4 Joules/sec by forfeit over Master Batters
Cleveland Browns 4, Not Quick Enough 2
Old Men 11, Phi Delt 10
Bucky Bone 11, Bad Murrell 1
Old Men 10, Pax 2

The number one and number two teams, Bone and Perpetual Perpetrators, have suffered defeats since my last article. Right now,
that means Eddie Searcher is the only team with an unblemished record. Eddie Searcher (KA) is the ultimately solid team:
they don’t make many errors and they hit well. The tournament will be starting soon and although KA may appear
to be the frontrunner, any of the top teams can still win it all.

A reminder to all IMAC contenders: don’t forget to turn in the scoresheets from your games. The Czar has no
record of the outcome if you don’t turn them in.

This week’s Top Ten:
1. Eddie Searcher
2. Perpetual Perpetrators
3. Bone
4. Busch Boys
5. Pissin in the Wind
6. Master Batters
7. Old Men
8. Pax
9. Phi Delt
10. Hosebag Hunters

Rice paces rifle team to third place competition

By ELIZABETH BRAZELL
Typesetter

The Davidson rifle team closed its season last Saturday with a third-place showing in the Western Carolina Conference Championship rifle
match at Wofford College. Appalachian placed first with a total score of 1289, Wake Forest placed second with 1288, and
Davidson came in third with a score of 1261.

Top scorer for the team was junior Craig Rice, who won the award for individual high prone position score with
a perfect 100-point target. Austin’s total score was 252. Senior team captain Pat Stuart ended four years of fine shooting
at Davidson with a score of 251. Junior George Webster scored a 258 and sophomore Steve Lawrence completed the day’s
shooting with a score of 239. While only five scores count for the team, there were seven rifle team members
at the match.

This year has been a fairly good one for the rifle team, although they lost valuable first-team shooter George Hatfield
in December and Coach Staff Sergeant Ransom Cooper at the end of March. Under the direction of Sergeant Major Bob
Smith, the team finished the season successfully, with a final 28-12 record.

Sailors disappointed with 7th place finish

By ERIC SANNER
Staff Writer

Perhaps the beautiful weather or maybe Davidson mid-term week was distracting, but the sailing team did not finish as well
as they had hoped last weekend. The team placed seventh of ten teams in the Dinghy Championships held here at
the Lake Norman Yacht Club. The seventh-place finish put the Cats seventh overall of the fifteen schools in the South
Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association for the spring season. The top finisher, Old Dominion University, now qualifies for the National Championship
in June at Annapolis, Maryland. Davidson qualifies for the Tulane Invitational Regatta at New Orleans next fall.

As hosts of the regatta last weekend, the entire team was kept busy with organizational responsibilities as well. Skipper-crew combinations
of Will Berson and Margaret Walton, and Maranda Mowbray, Stuart Baskin and Kathleen Huff, Eric Sanner and Margot Pearce all
sailed. Although Davidson finished inconsistently, individual team members gained valuable experience for next year’s season. Only Karis, Baskin, and Mowbray
will not be returning next year.

Two weekends ago, Davidson had participated in an adventurous University of Virginia Regatta at Lake Monticello. Nearly all competitors capsized
at least once during the regatta. Conditions were treacherous to the point of fright. The wind, blowing up to 25
miles an hour, often...Changed force by ten miles per hour and direction by 20 degrees within a few seconds. The
last regatta for the spring season is the Women’s Championship this weekend in Charleston. Two teams will represent Davidson in
the meet. Junior Kathy Bell and Freshman Meg McArn will sail in one fleet, and freshman Margot Pearce and Kathleen
Huff in the other.

Photograph by 261. Sophomore Doug Austin Griffin, Haskell set records. Stuart Baskin and crew Kathleen Huff demonstrate easy grace as
they sail on a sunny day.

Doubles highlight Cats baseball
By STEVE SOUD
Staff Writer

The Magical Mystery Tour of the sometimes magical but more often mystical Davidson baseball team continued across the last few
weeks. The latest series started as the team split with the Citadel. Davidson took the first game in extra innings
when senior Jeff Ray singled in a run from third to break a 3-3 deadlock. The second game was tied
3-3 in the ninth inning as well, and with a man on third, two out, and a slow grounder to
Davidson pitcher junior Rusty Colechia, the game seemed destined for extra innings. Colechia overthrew first though, and the Bulldogs took
the 4-3 win.

A little bit of the Wildcat magic showed up against Wingate. Although the Cats got bombed 12-4, junior Allen Griffin
did a little bombing of his own. After being robbed of a double on his first trip to the plate,
Griffin rattled off four consecutive doubles. He would have joined the NCAA record books with a few others for most
consecutive doubles, but a new record of five was set last week.

The mystery team was again fielded against Duke. Although the Cats exploded for a six-run top of the first, the
pitching staff gave up a seven-run bottom half of the inning that included a grand slam by the Blue Devils.
Duke went on to win, 13-12.

Friday the team took a twin bill from a less-than-average Furman team, 10-4, 5-4. In the second game, the magic
continued as freshman Scott Redding pulled a win out of a hat when the team scored four runs in the
ninth to give them a 5-4 win. Tuesday the team walloped Pfeiffer 13-6 as sophomore Bobby Barnes pitched eight innings
of shutout ball after the starter was touched for six. Batting magic was shining as the team hit the ball
harder than it has in any other game this year. All but one of the starters got at least one
hit.

Eddie Haskell has set a school record of 14 doubles, but Griffin is only two shy of that mark. Griffin
also set a new school record of 48 for most hits in a season. With almost magical hitting like that,
the team’s problem is no mystery. The Wildcat team earned run average is an anemic 6.07, while the opponent’s ERA
stands at 5.11. Worst of all, however, the Wildcat pitching staff has served up 42 home runs, whereas their opponents
have given up only 11. Overall, the team is behind the opposition in every offensive category except doubles. If the
pitching comes around, the team should be able to close its overall 18-22 record toward the .500 mark.

SOPHOMORES! TRY THE BASIC OUTLOOK — LIFE. TWO-YEAR

If you're starting to look at life after college, try our “basic” outlook. Apply for the special Two-Year Army ROTC
Program during your sophomore year. Attend a six-week Basic Camp this summer and earn $500. It’s tough. But the people
who can manage it are the people we want to serve as officers in the active Army or Reserves. Do
well at Basic and you can qualify for the Army ROTC Advanced Program in the fall. You'll earn $100 a
month for 20 months your last two years in college. And the opportunity for a two-year full tuition scholarship. You'll
also receive the extra credentials that will distinguish you in whatever career you may choose. Try our “basic” outlook on
life.

Cpt. Touchet
ROTC Dept.
Ext. 170
