Inspecting Perimeter Houses: Suits for Students?

by Pete Gulyn ‘83

This is the first of two articles on the future of the perimeter houses. Staff writer Pete Gulyn compared the perimeter houses with the standards in the minimum Housing Code for Mecklenburg County. These are his findings.

Most of the College’s perimeter houses now meet or surpass the minimum standards of the Housing Code for Mecklenburg County (1978).

The most serious problem is the floor in Lafferty House, the 3rd house back from the stoplight on Main Street, which was so weak that senior Marvin Rogers broke through it the first week of school. According to Lafferty resident senior Jim Troutman, “he merely walked into the closet to get something,” and without jumping or making any quick movements, suddenly stepped through a rotted floorboard. The Housing Office had the hole repaired promptly.

Troutman said that when the sun shines underneath the house in the morning, he can see the light between the floorboards.

Section 4.A. of the county’s Housing Code states, “floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.”

Some of the floorboards in Lafferty sink more than an inch when stepped on, indicating that they may become unsafe to walk on.

While Lafferty is the only house with loose floorboards, floors in other houses also give slightly. In order to protect their records from skipping when someone walks by, some people hang their turntables from ropes attached to the ceiling.

Both halves of Lafferty House had a flea infestation earlier this year. Section 4.B. of the Housing Code gives the owner of any multiple dwelling the responsibility to “maintain the dwelling in a reasonably rodent-proof condition” whenever two or more dwelling units are infested. If only one unit is infested, the occupants are responsible.

The College had Lafferty sprayed against fleas once this year, according to Troutman, and the problem has disappeared.

Residents of Martin Manor South, which is on the corner of North Main and the road leading to the dorms, have ants instead of fleas. The problem centers on the kitchen where ants swarm over any food left on the counter in a matter of minutes. Residents avoid the ants by placing food on the stove where ants cannot find it. The men living in Martin Manor submitted a work order to have the ants exterminated last week.

The residents of Julia Johnson House, which is the fourth house down from the stoplight on North Main, are privileged to have a colony of honey bees in one of their outside walls. Junior Jeff Kistler can hear the bees by putting his ear “up to a cup on the wall” in his room.

The other houses all seem structurally sound and free of infestation, although lesser problems surface frequently.

The heaters in Martin Manor function only sporadically, and residents of Harding House, which is on the south side of Lafferty, have the additional problem that only the first few rungs of each radiator become hot. Section 5.B of the Housing Code requires heating systems “of sufficient capacity to heat all habitable rooms...” to 68 degrees “...during ordinary weather conditions.”

Section 5.A. of the Code also specifically requires an “adequate supply of both hot and cold water.” Many of the houses suffer from low water pressure. In Julia Johnson House, the upstairs shower only trickles if the downstairs one is in use.

The perimeter houses are not overcrowded. Calculations using Housing Office figures on the total number of perimeter house residents and data on floor and ceiling area gathered by PIRG for last year’s Energy Conservation Survey indicate that there is an average of approximately 146 square feet of floor space per person. This compares favorably with the County requirement that there be 150 square feet of floor area for the first occupant, 100 square feet for each of the next three, and 75 square feet for each additional occupant in a dwelling unit.