6—The Davidsonian—January 16, 1981

Features

Film Review

Nick Graham

After beginning their 1981 program with Peter Brook’s 1966 version of Marat/Sade, the Fine Films Committee continues its excellent mixture
of new and old celluloid classics with Tristana, a film by Spanish director Luis Buñuel, whose works should already be
familiar to Davidson filmgoers. Buñuel’s Obscure Object of Desire was shown here last term. Tristana, however, is more in the
vein of Daughter of Viridiana than anything else.

Fernando Rey stars as another version of the classic Buñuel character, a man who rejects all moral values. Rey’s amorality
leads him to seduce Tristana, his supposed daughter by an earlier mistress. This tender, innocent creature is rapidly transformed into
a pitiless monster who watches over the eventual destruction of Rey without a twitch of emotion. Catherine Deneuve plays the
eminently corruptible young flesh and ably continues her association with Buñuel, which began so auspiciously with her portrayal of the
housewife/prostitute in Belle de Jour, the director’s 1966 comeback feature.

Anarchy, anti-clericalism, and the usual Buñuel obsessions raise their ugly heads in a devastatingly charming fashion, but the foot-fetishists among
you will probably be pining—and quite rightly too—for Viridiana. Tristana is a good feature, which deserves to be seen by
more than just convinced fans or those won over by Obscure Object; however, the real question is whether Tristana should
be in this term’s schedule at all. Junior Joni Seehorn and her Fine Films Committee are evidently sensitive to the
suggestions of their audience, but with Obscure Object already shown and the superlative Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie coming later
this term, there is strong cause for showing the works of modern European directors besides Buñuel. There are, arguably, those
who deserve to be seen more often: Godard, Truffaut, and Bertolucci, who have not been so much as mentioned this
year.

If Spanish film is to be a continual fetish, then one could profitably show Spirit of the Beehive or even
The Poachers without alienating too great a portion of the audience.

The list of suggestions for the Fine Films could be (and probably has been) endless, but if the press in
this community has any power whatsoever, then I should like to register a lone vote in favor of the German
cinema.

The Committee could reasonably pay some attention to the work of Wim Wenders, the finest director currently working in that
country. His obsession with rock music and the American colonization of the European subconscious ought to make him a popular
man in the United States. His 1976 feature Kings of the Road (Im Lauf der Zeit) is quite simply one
of the most profound and moving films I’ve seen.

“It may be the best movie of its kind ever made.

For undiluted pleasure and excitement, it is, I think, the American movie of the year...a new classic.”

From deep space...

A Robert H. Solo Production of A Philip Kaufman Film

“Invasion of the Body Snatchers”
Donald Sutherland - Brooke Adams - Leonard Nimoy - Jeff Goldblum - Veronica Cartwright - Screenplay by W.D. Richter -
Based on the novel “The Body Snatchers” by Jack Finney
Produced by Robert H. Solo - Directed by Philip Kaufman
United Artists

Love Auditorium - Friday night at 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m.

$7.50 or Season’s Pass

Pornography exposed

By JEFF MANN
Staff Correspondent

Pornography will come out of the plain brown wrapper and into the 900 Room next Tuesday at 7 when California
poet Susan Lurie presents a talk entitled “Pornography and the Myth of Women.”

Lurie is director of the Berkeley Women Writers Workshop at the University of California at Berkeley and is editor-publisher of
Woman Seed, a magazine featuring women’s writing. She has contributed to several books and poetry collections, including the controversial Take
Back the Night: Women on Pornography. The New York Times Book Review described this book as “a collection of analyses,
critiques, manifestos, and speeches, all by prominent feminists, all decrying the increase of violence in pornography during the last ten
years.” Publisher’s Weekly called it a “cry of rage and pain, a call to action, a search for solutions.”

Lurie’s visit, sponsored by the Davidson Women’s Center, will continue with three days of poetry readings and workshops. On Wednesday
at 12:30 she will speak on “Women and Literature” at an open luncheon in the 900 Room. She will also
conduct a workshop later that day from 2 to 4 with Professor Tony Abbott’s creative writing class in Chambers 301.

Linda Orr from Duke University will join Lurie on Thursday at 4:30 in the 900 Room for a poetry reading
followed by a sign-up dinner.

Women’s Center spokesman Aurie Hall emphasized that all events are open to the entire student body. She hopes that nationally
known speakers like Lurie, whose subject is of interest to all students, will contribute to a “growing awareness of women’s
issues” on campus.

‘Rooms’ in the Gallery

Rooms—the word evokes images ranging from an elegantly austere dining area to your own dorm “habitat.” These are two of
the rooms in the new art show in Chambers Gallery. Artists Clara Couch, Paul Harcharik, Mary Mintich, and Richard Stenhouse
were asked to create a room of specified dimensions. You can view—and enter—their works 10-5 daily.

PAT PLANNED PARENTHOOD
BEING SEXUAL MEANS BEING RESPONSIBLE

“I see most of the women who come to Planned Parenthood. I like to take the time to talk with
you about your medical and emotional needs. Being responsible takes time. Take some time with us at Planned Parenthood.”

Megan McKewan,
Nurse Practitioner
Low Cost and Confidential Birth Control
Pregnancy Testing
Problem Pregnancy Counseling
Abortion Services

Information on birth control, V.D., prenatal care and adoption at no cost.

FOR INFORMATION OR APPOINTMENT CALL 377-0841 MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:00-5:00 P.M.

Planned Parenthood
951 S. Independence at McDowell
Charlotte, N.C. 28202

“COME TO PLANNED PARENTHOOD BEFORE”

(Pat Donley)
