page 16 DAVIDSONIAN Friday 18 September 1981

Timmerman and American foreign policy
Danny Armistead ’82

Jacobo Timerman is the author of Prisoner Without a Name, Cell Without a Number and is the subject of the articles on this page. He describes his experiences as a Jew, a journalist, and a prisoner in Argentina. Here we have an insight into the tumultuous politics of Argentina and a grim picture of the violence conducted under legislative control and sanctions, within the due process of law. Thus, all terrorist groups would lose all claim to legitimacy. However, this solution was rejected by a senator as an invitation for a military takeover, and by an army officer as slow, and ineffective in fighting left and right-wing extremist violence. Thus, the random unbridled violence of the official institutions continues.

Timerman’s government soon landed him in one of the clandestine prisons. His book relates startling accounts of anti-semitism and torture. Timerman wishes to call our attention to this. We must realize the extent of the prejudice and brutality and not wait, as we once did in Germany, to protest its existence. Timerman has revealed to us the gross violation of human rights in Argentina—what will be our nation’s response?

Timerman and family moved to Argentina when he was very young. Growing up in Argentina, he turned his energy and journalistic ability into founding the successful Buenos Aires newspaper La Opinion. As editor of this paper, Timerman was besieged by families hoping he would find their “lost” relatives. They were “lost” among the thousands of political dissidents and “subversives” who disappear without a trace; gone to either clandestine government prisons or an ignominious death—a fate he would soon experience first hand but survive to tell.

Jacobo Timerman introduces us to a country torn by what he calls “Fascism of the Right and Left,” a fascism that longs for absolute rule and implementation of policy by force with each side carrying out terrorist activities to eliminate the other. His paper pushed for military intervention which would be conducted under legislative control and sanctions, within the due process of law. Thus, all terrorist groups would lose all claim to legitimacy. However, this solution was rejected by a senator as an invitation for a military takeover, and by an army officer as slow, and ineffective in fighting left and right-wing extremist violence. Thus, the random unbridled violence of the official institutions continues.

Ah, Señor Sam, it won't be long before my people support me almost as much as you do, Argentinians.

William Buckley (National Review) — Reading Anthony Lewis's column on the subject of General Haig and Argentina left one wondering whether, at home stretch, Mr. Lewis would succeed in finishing without collapsing from cardiac arrest. His cholic was aroused by the State Department’s request, made to the House Foreign Affairs Committee, to resume selling arms to Argentina. General Haig, while noting that Argentina is not a free society, evidently felt that Argentina and America shared certain interests. One might ask, is Mr. Lewis ignorant of antisemitism in Argentina? Unfortunately, no. Amnesty International, which in its 1980 report devotes more than eight pages to deploring the absence of civil liberties in Argentina, makes not a single mention of antisemitism in Argentina. The following passage is from the annual report on Human Rights prepared by Assistant Secretary of State for Human Rights Patricia Derian and her staff, appointees of former President Carter, published pursuant to the Committee that the Argentine Gira ticns was not involved in antisemitic acts. Wrote Mr. Lewis: “There is a question here for the American Jewish...community. Is it going to sit quietly by while a high official of its government says we share values—‘a belief in God’—with a regime under which antisemitism has been practiced?”

And again, is the Jewish community going to accept such statements (as made by Mr. Buckley)—such “insults to common intelligence,” in silence?

Let us pause, and collect one’s wit.

1) The United States wishes to halt the sale of arms to Argentina.
2) The State of Israel sells arms to Argentina—so, just to begin with, we are not condemning something Israel isn’t doing.
3) Is it an “insult to common intelligence” to believe this?

Anthony Lewis had recently read, and reviewed for the New York Times, an extraordinarily moving book by an Argentine Jew, Jacobo Timerman, in which the former newspaper publisher from Buenos Aires recounts experiences at the hands of Argentine security forces which might have been told by a survivor of a Nazi prison. Torture is torture; and there is no torture that is distinctively Nazi—in the sense, say, that the bastinado is Oriental, or the birch British. What is distinctive to the Nazi is the association of torture with race: and this was Timerman’s experience in Argentina, so vividly described in his book.

I called Robert Cox at Harvard, to ask whether Timerman’s experience was in any sense unique. Mr. Cox is the distinguished former editor of the English-language Buenos Aires newspaper. He left Argentina last year, after the political thugs threatened his children. Cox said:
a) Antisemitism is culturally endemic in Argentina, “and, as a matter of fact, everywhere.”
b) When Cox last was held up in an Argentine prison for 24 hours for some technical infraction, he was astonished to find ‘NAZI NACIONALISMO’ painted on the wall of the police office.
c) Most members of the Jewish community in Buenos Aires (including Mr. Timerman before he was put in jail) reason that it is better to ride out the storm than to fight it.
d) Cox thinks that pressure would help.

What kind of pressure? It’s difficult to say. To refuse to sell them arms? Effective. What, then? Well, said Cox, such pressure as the papal nuncio in Buenos Aires, recently transferred to Washington, was able to put on the regime. He apparently did much to mitigate Argentine military inclination. How so? Because Argentinians, sinners like the rest of us, believe in God.

In late 1978 [reads the U.S. Human Rights Report], the Argentine government invited the Inter-American Human Rights Commission to visit Argentina. That visit took place from September 6 to September 20, 1979. (The report goes on to describe the many persons interviewed by the Commission, including former prisoners, members of bereaved families, detention center inmates, etc.) The Commission also noted that the Argentine government cooperated fully with the Commission and that with the exception of Jehovah’s Witnesses, freedom of religion prevails. It reported that there is no official policy of antisemitism; in some instances, Jews have been the subject of discrimination. And Brother James was wrong in his emphasis.