Randy Nelson’s new book

Trivia from American literature that you'll want to read

Randy Nelson’s The Almanac of American Letters (William Kaufman Inc. Publishers) is a collection of hoaxes, frauds, anecdotes, and trivia
behind the great names of American literature. Featured also in Nelson’s funny book are “less knowns” and unknowns; those “would-have-beens”
passed over by literary posterity without so much as a footnote. Here they all are in Nelson’s amusing potpourri.

Horace Liveright and Harry Kemp. Some people are born to lose, and then there are a few who have to
work at it. Such a one was Horace Liveright, partner in the firm of Boni & Liveright in the 1920s
and a man for all seasons up to about 1930. He took extravagant chances with some of the titles he
published; and when a book succeeded, he threw extravagant parties. One result, to nobody’s surprise but Horace’s, was a cash-flow
problem: the flow in was steady enough, but the flow out was a riptide. To make matters worse, Horace was
a sucker for good stories—not the kind written for literary magazines, but the kind told by con artists. That's how
he got involved with Harry Kemp.

In 1920 Kemp approached Liveright for the first time. His plot began with a wife named Dreamy who had tuberculosis;
she was dying, sobbed Kemp, and needed the comfort of a sanitarium for her last months. The cupboard being bare,
he thought Horace might advance him a few hundred dollars on a book of poems, which incidentally hadn’t been written
yet because Kemp had been so depressed lately. As soon as Dreamy passed to her reward though, he would finish
the manuscript and deliver it post haste to Boni & Liveright. And, oh yes, he was sure the book would
be a money-maker. For this tale alone Kemp made more money than for any of his earlier literary enterprises: Liveright
gave him $1,200 for a “novel,” knowing that the company treasurer would never approve that amount of money for poetry.
A year later, unexpected events: Dreamy died, or else somehow removed from the scene; and Harry Kemp proved to be
an honest man after all: the author presented his benefactor with a hefty manuscript which turned out to be the
autobiographical novel that Horace had predicted in the first place. While the publisher himself seemed gratified, it would be more
accurate to say that his colleagues were astounded: no one but Horace Liveright had expected a book from the venture.
The work was published immediately as Tramping on Life and astonished the trade insiders by actually making money, just as
Kemp had foretold. It made money, that is to say, for everyone except Liveright. In the weeks following publication the
author took to comfortable living, and the publisher took to overspending his advertising budget. On what could have been a
quick profit of $10,000 the company barely managed to recover costs. But by then the firm was well into Horace’s
next adventure. He was never—

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 October 1981
