Sherman’s reply. ... To the Editor: On Friday, November 6, the Davidsonian published an article entitled “Gentlemen Only.” While most
members of the Philanthropic Society continue to keep an open mind towards admitting female members into the Society, we also
reserve the right to discuss the matter and to act in what we consider to be the best interests of
the Society and of the College community as a whole. I am sure that most members are more than willing
to discuss the vote in question with anyone who is interested — but, if you must quote us, please do
it accurately! Unfortunately, Cathi Dumas, in her writing of the abovementioned article, neglected the whole notion of accuracy. The purpose
of this letter, then, is to clear the air, so to speak, regarding what actually happened.

First, Howard Browne’s “eloquent answer: ‘no comment,’” was made with the explanation that the meeting in question was officially closed
and that Society approval was needed if any official statement was to be made. He made clear, however, that we
were willing to discuss the matter. Secondly, I question the comment that “Mary and I would never have known of
the vote from the preceding meeting.” The question I was asked before the meeting began was “Sherman, why don’t you
want women in the Phi Society?” My answer to this question was not “tradition,” but rather that there seemed to
be no justifiable and immediate reason to change the Society’s constitution at this time since women can already attend Society
meetings. Also, nowhere did I say (or even imply) that women were “more social and less intellectual than men.” What
I told Cathi was, in fact, that this decision should “not imply that women are less intellectual...”

The other important factor which Cathi failed to mention is that the Eumenean Society does admit women and that several
members of Phi offered to help rebuild the membership of that Society. Cathi also neglected to mention that most Phi
Society meetings are open to anyone and that membership is only rarely a requirement. The Phi Society doesn’t deny women
admission to our meetings. In fact, we welcome them as evidenced by Cathi’s insightful visit. As for the matter of
female membership, that is an issue upon which deliberation will continue. Since the Society vote, much interest has been aroused
among both men and women. As more light continues to be shed on the matter, I hope we will keep
an open mind.

Sherman Aten '83

...more from Sherman

To the Editor: Recent Davidsonian issues have bothered me, not because they did not look good, or because they were
not well written — in fact, most of us would agree that the style of the paper shows marked improvements
over past years — but rather because they were blatantly inaccurate. It seems to me to be the responsibility of
an editor to take precautions to ensure the accuracy of the information which his newspaper relays. Unfortunately, in at least
three instances Mr. Siman has not only failed to realize, but ignored this responsibility. The Davidsonian has allowed unwarranted, inaccurate
attacks on the SGA, has printed opinion letters “written” by people the editor knew did not exist, and has printed
an article regarding the Philanthropic Society’s membership requirements which he knew was filled with inaccuracies. Mr. Siman is a member
of the organization and attended the meeting to which Cathi Dumas referred.

If this letter seems to be an attack on John Siman, it is not. It is rather an attack on
bad journalism. On Sunday evening, after the release of the Davidsonian issue in which the first article appeared, Mr. Siman
accosted me to ask if I would respond to her column. I answered, “Probably.” Mr. Siman then replied, “Oh, good.
I hope we can get a good debate going on this thing.” It seems to me that sensationalism for the
sake of controversy and good journalism are strange bedfellows indeed. John seemed elated that after allowing inaccurate ad hominem attacks
upon several campus organizations, finally we would have a “good debate.” This approach to journalism bothers and, frankly, frightens me.
Good, insightful, accurate journalism, it seems to me, as a principle in practice is essential to good government and the
practice of representative democracy. The media, if used wisely, is a potent, positive force in a system of representative government.
However, many good politicians and others in the public light have seen their jobs lost and futures shattered due to
partisan or ill-informed publicity. Certainly, Cathi’s article will do little to shatter the lives of the members of the Phi
Society. That is to say, I certainly haven’t lost any sleep over it. But, the course which the Davidsonian seems
to be taking this year should be a fitting warning that those who possess power also possess the responsibility to
use it wisely. After all, someday John Siman may be editor of The Wall Street Journal.

Sherman Allen ’83

P.S. John, even “opinions” should be grounded in informed thought, if not in truth. Writing one’s opinions does not free
the author of defending the validity of his/her statements.

Questionable Integrity

To the Editor: After careful searching, we found that the supposed co-writers...of “BSC on the wrong track” (James P. Murdock
and James Carson IV) are not members of the class of ’84; in fact, they are not students at Davidson
College. They do not exist. It disappoints us to know that the editors of the Davidsonian were aware of this
and still published these names as co-writers of the letter. This suggests that John Siman has no concern for the
truth, but rather, diligently searches out trivial discrepancies that make for colorful reading. For a newspaper to even think of
supporting false information and such irresponsible behavior is unnerving. In the future, we would hope that what is read in
the Davidsonian is a clear representation of the truth.

The Executive Council of the Black Student Coalition

Two of the names signed to James Moore’s letter of 30 October were pseudonyms that James uses. He was the
sole author of the letter. The Davidsonian was wrong in not removing the bogus names, and we apologize to anyone
who was misled by their appearance.

Islamic America?

To the Editor:

Everyone has had his or her fill of the sordid AWAC’s drama by now. It was a bit like the
hostages in Iran: after a while, the whole thing becomes so much fodder for media cannons. The danger with such
an overbearing and degenerate media is that we become saturated and thus blind to the greater significance of an “issue.”
But it is very important to give some thought to the question, “How will this be remembered? What will people
think in retrospect?”

Actually, it was an article out of the New York Times (19 Oct.) by Heilbroner that set me to thinking
along these lines. The article was entitled “In Hoover’s Wake, Helmsman Reagan,” and it entailed a comparison between Presidents Hoover
and Reagan. For those who have forgotten, Hoover was the President who ushered in the Great Depression, and when faced
with the greatest economic slump anyone had ever seen, Hoover advocated a policy of minimal government intervention. Hoover was unceremoniously
booted out, and the US did not recover until World War II. Heilbroner asks whether Reagan has not also “missed
the point” just like his ideological grandfather Hoover. Will President Reagan be remembered for his failure to understand that rugged
individualism and laissez-faire capitalism are dead—and for analogous catastrophes? Let us hope not.

I was also led to wonder, in the wake of President Reagan’s performance at Cancun, whether his stance there will
be remembered by posterity as Neanderthal capitalism’s last primal grunt. But then it hit me: Mr. Reagan will be remembered
for ushering in Islamic America. This idea follows from the tendency throughout history for the dominant culture to also dominate
in terms of arts, sciences, and religion. The reason most of us are roughly Judeo-Christian in our upbringing is that
European culture was so adept at spreading itself and its religion around. But now, with the huge economic leverage of
OPEC—which is largely Arabic/Islamic in composition—the belief systems and traditions of Arab culture are the ascendant ones. We are simply
feeling the “dominant culture” syndrome. And Reagan is simply playing the cards that his myriad of poll-takers and advisors dealt
him. So long, Judeo-Christian ethic! The AWAC’s “victory” in Washington shows that America’s leaders not only understand which side of
the bread is buttered but also who has most of the butter today.

I hope we all understand the threat posed by Islamic America. First, praying in the direction of Mecca five times
each day would adversely affect our already low industrial productivity—to say nothing of traffic. Imagine, too, what would happen if
everyone went on vacation during the holy month of Ramadan! Of course, we would have fundamentalist Islamic television shows and
a politically active Mullah Majority. But then again, we could have more than one wife, and if we were ever
low on cash or needed a new car, we could always trade her in. A big problem from an economist’s
standpoint would be that the new demand for harem eunuchs would swell our already oversized service sector. But on the
other hand, think of the market (225 million strong) for indoor/outdoor prayer rugs.

Of course, the problem with this sort of speculation is that you can get all worried about nothing. But just
to be safe, watch what they start including in the Humanities Program under “Dominant Cultures in the Western Tradition.” These
are subtle questions.

James Gelly ’82

Trouble at ATO

To the Editor:

For the past several years, we have watched with growing concern the decline and fall of many campus traditions, among
them Freshman beanies, the Court of Control, mandatory chapel, and the appearance of women at Davidson. We feel that drastic
measures are both called for and justified. Therefore, we are taking over the campus. We have annexed the two unclaimed
Patterson Court houses; the rest of Davidson will soon follow. We have the will. We have the ability. We have
the means. And we are the Fighting Sheep.

P. Quiggly Lazzaro for the Fighting Sheep
