Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Phi Society

To the Editor:

Sherman Allen’s remark in the last Davidsonian (“Gentlemen Only: The Philanthropic Society’s sexist membership policy”) that to admit women members to the Philanthropic Society would cause it “to become more social instead of maintaining the intellectual atmosphere” is perplexing. What do you mean, Mr. Allen? That women aren’t intelligent enough to relate to men on any level other than a social one? Or that men are incapable of doing so? “Intellectual atmosphere” implies a certain open-mindedness that you do not display. Perhaps you are threatened by the presence of intelligent, interesting women.

Jenny O’Briant ’84

Phi’s tradition

To the Editor:

In response to Cathi Dumas’s column [6 November], in which Sherman Allen defends the Philanthropic Society’s exclusion of women on the basis of its being “the tradition,” I am moved to ask him what his feelings would be if members of the Davidson ROTC unit, and the man who made his “cute” remark, will reflect on the truth. At one time here in the South, it was not just the “tradition,” it was a moral and legal judgment bound up in granite. Thankfully, we have moved beyond that primitive discriminatory attitude. Or have we?

David Sisk ’85

Respect ROTC

To the Editor:

Several weeks ago I had the pleasure of spending an afternoon on the campus there at Davidson and attending the awards ceremony presented by the Davidson Army ROTC unit. A number of young men and women were presented the awards that they had earned during the past year, and you could tell by their expressions and demeanor they were very proud of the work they had done and the respect of their peers. After a brief reception, there was a tease and a physical training session. Strolling by, with his girlfriend on his arm, some sarcastic student yelled out to the puffing, sweating troops: “Baby-eating practice on the count of four — HO!” I am sure this comment was primarily made to impress his girlfriend with how “cool” he was, and I am sure also his innuendo of scorn is not the general feeling of the Davidson student population. However, I do feel the issue of how some students and others feel about the ROTC and the military merits some comment. There are probably as many reasons for participating in the ROTC program as there are students in the program; some are there to help pay their way through college by obligating themselves to pay back the opportunity by service to their country, some are there to prepare themselves for a career in the military, some are there to gain the offered chance of discipline and leadership so necessary to get ahead in the business world, and some, I presume, because they think the uniforms look sharp. Whatever the reason for their being in the program, I thank God each day for the fact that they are there, and that they are preparing themselves to be the leaders in both the military and the world. Peace through strength works, learning through discipline works, the philosophy of “service being the rent you pay for the space you occupy” works, and the Reserve Officer Training Corps works. I am proud of each of those fine young people and sincerely hope the young man who made his “cute” remark will reflect on the truth.

All-female house

To the Editor:

I read in the Davidsonian (not the current one, I’m afraid it’s been a rough term and I’m somewhat behind) that three sophomore women have presented plans to open a second all-female eating house. Great. Fine and dandy. I’d like to see one. However, as far as I’m concerned, there is a caveat. I don’t want to pour battery acid on...

---Anyone has bothered to scrutinize seriously the motives for establishing such a house, at least as those motives were presented in the 30 October article. The article essentially cites two advantages to having such a house: increased social benefits and, as per the article’s quote of an earlier letter to the Davidsonian (confusing, huh?), “a forum that would enable co-eds to discuss issues relevant to women today.” Does that second one sound familiar? It should. That was one of the purposes for which Rusk House was opened in 1977. Rusk succeeded so brilliantly that the Women’s Center was established last year to do the same thing. It’s going to upset some women for me to say this, but facts are facts: I, widely-reputed male chauvinist pig and the 1981 SPE-D Poster Child, sat in on a seminar at the Women’s Center and heard (and participated in) more meaningful discussion of “issues relevant to women today” in thirty minutes than I’ve heard at Rusk in three and a half years. Moreover, almost all the women that I’ve talked to who have spent time at both places tell me that my observation is basically accurate. Kathy Kooken’s assertion that “women feel freer to discuss their concerns in an all-women setting” is fine—as far as it goes, which isn’t far. Pure and simple guts—far more than the setting, be it all-male, all-female, or co-ed—does more than anything else to get important things said. Also, Kathy and the others are making a big mistake if they believe that all so-called “women’s issues” are best discussed in an all-female forum. For many of these issues—sex discrimination and marriage/family/career choices, for example—aren’t “women’s issues” so much as issues concerning the relationships between men and women. As such, these issues would be most productively discussed in a group containing members of both sexes, not in an all-female forum.

I wish to emphasize that I'm not denying the need of Davidson women for same-sex fellowship. If women want an all-female eating house for social purposes, that’s fine with me. If they want to set up a sorority, for that matter, I couldn’t care less. What does bother me is that while people like Kathy Kooken imply that Davidson lacks a forum for discussing women’s issues, such a forum—the Women’s Center—already exists. Meaningful discussions go on there every day. And yet the Women’s Center is slated to lose the Kimmel House and has received no guarantee whatever from the College that it will have a permanent place to meet in the future. If Rusk House is any indication, and I’m not alone in believing that it is, expanding social opportunities will supplant discussion of women’s issues as the new house’s raison d'être. If Davidson women (and men) believe that a forum for the discussion of women’s issues is important, they should lend their support to the Women’s Center. Those women who, though citing the need for such a forum, just want a Patterson Court house in which to play sorority should not be taken seriously. And for those women who seriously want a forum, good luck. You will need it.

Shoope Alexander, IV ’82

It is with deep gratitude that I thank Davidson College and its associates for the hospitality given to me throughout my visit to the campus for an interview. On October 22, 1981, I walked on Davidson College’s campus for the first time. As a prospective student, I was curious and somewhat apprehensive toward unfamiliar surroundings. Any fears or anxieties I had were soon distilled through and by the helpfulness and friendliness of Davidson’s students, faculty, and staff. Once again, thanks to everyone who made my visit to Davidson educational and enjoyable.

Lisa Eileen Borden
1982 Prospective