SGA Corporate Relations

To the Editor:

It has become a weekly occurrence that as we glance through the Davidsonian, we cannot help but be frustrated by
continuing inaccuracies and attempts to create controversy. The most disturbing example occurred in the Davidsonian of October 23, in Mr.
Siman’s editorial entitled “The Great Job Hunt.” In this editorial, the editor stated that the SGA, specifically its Corporate Relations
Committee, is extremely dissatisfied with the job Mr. Ken Wood is doing in the Career’s Office. The implication that we
would like to see Mr. Wood fired, which the editorial fostered, is inaccurate and has been the most difficult untruth
for the SGA to refute.

No one has questioned the extremely fine job which Mr. Wood has done in the area of experiential programming. Innovations
and programs begun here at Davidson by Mr. Wood have been adopted by college Job Placement Offices throughout the state.
The issue which the SGA has been questioning over the past year has been the College’s, not Ken Wood’s, commitment
to job placement. The image that Mr. Wood’s job is tenuous can do nothing but further undermine the effectiveness of
his office and hinder the credibility of the Job Placement Program, which Mr. Wood has been working so hard to
improve.

Over the past several years, the number of students entering the job market directly from Davidson has increased from about
15% to almost 50% at a time when the size of each class has also increased. Meanwhile, the College’s Job
Placement Office and staff have not increased in 8-10 years. The end result is that demands from students on the
Career’s Office for job placement have tripled, according to Mr. Wood.

In order to assess the merits of student criticism of the Career’s Office, as well as to determine possibilities of
increasing staff, the SGA and the Dean’s Office brought in two professional consultants to evaluate the College’s Job Placement Program.
The results reconfirmed Mr. Wood’s excellence in the area of experiential learning. The report also concluded that many of the
student criticisms of job placement were valid. Most significant among their recommendations is the conclusion that the College requires additional
personnel in the specific area of job placement.

Had Mr. Siman made any effort to get the complete picture by contacting any member of the Corporate Relations Committee,
he would have been more aware of the actual intentions of the SGA and the CRC.

Chip Legerton, President SGA
Andy Brown, President Senior Class

GDI — join or die

To the Editor:

On July 4, 1776, the thirteen American colonies, already in revolt against their mother country, declared their independence from Great
Britain. In the winter of 1777-1778, Washington and a small band of rugged warriors faced a slow death from starvation,
disease, and misery at Valley Forge.

In 1984, Davidson College witnesses a similar historic event. The Valley Forge — Richardson and Bailey — is over, and
a new coalition of leaders has emerged. These standard-bearers have united under the banner of Gamma Delta Iota to...prevent the
occurrences of starvation, disease, misery, and Chatham from rearing their ugly heads again. The order of Gamma Delta Iota is
dedicated to the principles of individualism, culinary excellence, and the Commons man. The order has been blessed with its Washingtons,
Jeffersons, and Hamiltons. We now summon heroic individuals who share our same ideals, to take up our ensign and march
toward a path of glory and light in a cause destined to triumph and flourish for eternity.

The Order of Gamma Delta Iota

Slagle’s Thanks

To the Editor:

I would like to express the appreciation of the Soccer Team and myself for the support we received this year.
The student body, faculty, staff, and people of the community helped us to have one of the better Soccer seasons
Davidson has had. I anticipate that next year we can field another very competitive team that will warrant your continued
support. Thank you.

Charlie Slagle,
Soccer Coach

ROTC Blood Drive

To the Editor:

On behalf of the Davidson College ROTC Department and the Scabbard & Blade Society, I would like to thank the
ladies of the distaff who provided invaluable assistance at the blood drive. I would also like to thank the following
local businesses for donating prizes: King of Pizza, the Little Kitchen, the Meeting Place, the Chef’s Cap, and Anheuser-Busch. A
special thanks to all those who came out and “saved someone's life” on November 2.

Russell G. Snipes, Jr.
Cadet OIC Publicity
Fall 1981 Blood Drive

Lost and Found

To the Editor:

Hi. Johnny, do you know that there are hundreds of students who will suffer chills, thrills, and pre-bronchial spasms before
the term is out? Suckin’ Sassafras! The Lost & Found is full of sweaters, jackets, and sweatsuits. I shudder to
clean up after an event these days because I know that two or three more orphaned polyesters will be found.
One in ten is claimed. Please, Johnny-boy, tell the students that if clothes are left in the Union for more
than 12 hours, they are placed in the closet behind the desk. Likewise, prescription glasses, tapes and tape cases, jewelry,
and other goodies await you. So come on down, y’all. Think what'll happen if you have to ask Mom for
a new coat. Redrum, redrum.

Dave Webb
Union Staff

The Sierra Club presented the one million-plus signatures they had collected for their petition calling for the resignation of Interior
Secretary James Watt to Congress last month. The signatures collected by Davidson's PIRG chapter were not among them. Davidson PIRG
president Geof Little said PIRG did not send the petitions because they felt they had not collected enough to make
a difference and they hoped the publicity from the presentation would attract more signatures. Geof said PIRG will soon send
the signatures to the Sierra Club headquarters in California, and he will send copies of them to North Carolina Representative
Jim Martin, who represents Davidson.
