by Bill Swift ‘85

According to Housing Director Bill Bolding, there are about 120 students living off-campus this year. This year a total of
two women moved off campus because of a lack of acceptable dorm space on campus. “This year we allowed more
room space, percentage-wise, for women than ever before,” Bolding said. “However, the waiting list for women was tremendous.”

Some students willfully move off-campus because they feel that they have more privacy. Mr. Bolding said that the main reason
these students leave campus housing is that the College runs out of room for them in dorms and perimeter housing.
This year five of the 19 perimeter houses were turned into faculty homes. Mr. Bolding said, “It is probable that
more of the perimeter houses will be phased into faculty homes next year.” He added, “If the College cannot handle
these extra students, they will be forced to live off-campus.”

All students are required to live on-campus if there are openings. Mr. Bolding said, “Although we have the power to
call an off-campus student back on-campus, we never use it.” In the event of an opening on-campus, the Housing Office
informs off-campus students that they may return to College-owned housing. Mr. Bolding said, “Most students given the opportunity decide that
they’d rather live on-campus.”

Mr. Bolding said there are two empty rooms on campus, one on fourth Belk and the other in Basement Richardson.
These rooms in Belk and several other rooms that now have occupants are being reserved for students in the Beaufort
marine science program. When asked where the present occupants would move when these Beaufort students returned winter term, Mr. Bolding
replied, “They will be moved into winter term vacancies.” These vacancies are left by students dropping out, moving off campus,
or going on trips.

Room-Swapping and Entering the Lottery
by Jeffrey Mann ‘84

Housing Director Bill Bolding wants to tighten up the present housing lottery system. He asked the SGA’s Residence Hall Council
(RHC) to consider ways to eliminate abuses and suggest changes to improve the system. Mr. Bolding said, “Last year room
swapping got out of hand. Complaints from students were rampant. One whole fraternity switched at lunchtime.” He declined to name
the fraternity.

Under the present system, random numbers are drawn from a jar by all students in order of seniority. Any students
who were forced off campus draw first, then rising seniors, etc. The student with the lowest number chooses his room
first. The more desirable rooms naturally go first. Roommates use their lower number to choose. Presently, one way to get
around the system is by going through the selection process with someone with a good number, and then switching rooms
in September. For instance, a sophomore could find a senior who has a lower number than his intended roommate, and
‘borrow’ this senior number by going through room selection with him. Both students would then switch rooms in September to
be with their intended roommates.

Mr. Bolding said in Wildcat Dens, a 1981 housing office publication, “There is no system of lottery which is failsafe
from the unfair manipulations of those students who want to ‘beat the system.’ Roommate pairs may switch and swap in
order to get the best lottery numbers and then switch roommates in the fall when they arrive on campus. This
may be effective for some students.”

Off-Campus Housing [Continued from page 1]Senior Patty Bates, who lives next door in Harding House, said she did not have
it so bad. The residents of Harding had only general cleaning and a kitchen full of appliances that didn’t work
to worry about. At Martin Manor across the street, however, some of the girls weren’t even sure if the house
was “healthy to live in.” Even after scrubbing the floor several times, it still turned the bottoms of their feet
black every time they dared to go without shoes inside. The girls also said that the house’s refrigerator won’t shut,
the upstairs lights don’t go on (or off), and the screens on the windows don’t fit.

But the girls see nothing normal. Even the porch boards that are so warped that they hold water can wait
their turn to be fixed. The serious concern is the front door that won't close. The possibility of night visitors
makes young women nervous, especially if the front door won’t close. They said that in general, the people in all
three houses have the same complaints. They feel that the houses should have at least been fit to live in
when they arrived at summer. They often feel as though they are last priority and would like to be treated
as though they are just as important as other residents.

The school sends out bathrooms, one could hardly tell any connection with Davidson College. The residents said that if it
weren’t for the maid that the roll of toilet paper in the system does not beat the system—it merely cheats
other students who believe in and follow Davidson’s unique and invaluable code of honor. Mr. Bolding said this week, “We
tried to give flexibility in good faith,” but too many people were “cheating others by swapping rooms.” Any change would
probably mean less flexibility, he said.

SGA Vice President Chip Hurley said the RHC will be meeting in the middle of October to discuss possible changes.
The RHC is made up of representatives from each dorm and is chaired by the SGA vice president. Chip said
the “main focus will be on room swapping,” but the council will consider any ideas on improving the system. “Bill
[Bolding] will do anything if we can devise a better way,” he said.

One night after a fraternity party, some people came in the house after all the residents had gone to bed.

The council will also examine summer storage problems, room retentions, and interest in off-campus housing. The College of William and
Mary uses a lottery system similar to Davidson’s, but they eliminate the room swapping problem by not allowing room changes
until four weeks into the term. “This pretty much takes care of it,” said housing office secretary Kathy Clark. Lottery
numbers are assigned by computer. The University of the South uses a fairly personalized system according to Dean of Women
Mary Sue Cushman. They use a combination of seniority and academic standing to determine priority in selecting rooms. “We pretty
much talk to everyone to avoid swaps and dodges. It shows up when the student arrives to switch rooms. We
tell him no,” she said.

Martin Manor photo by Eric Long ‘83
