The language program: expectations and realities

In reference to Jeff Jordan's contribution to the Davidsonian (“What we need is a good three-term language program,” April 24),
I feel that the time has come for someone to defend the much-maligned language programs at Davidson against incredibly exaggerated
expectations. Mr. Jordan finds that our programs leave something to be desired because they do not give students functional proficiency
in a foreign language in three ten-week terms. Furthermore, he maintains that the goal of functional proficiency can be attained
without the addition of a fourth term to the present requirement. Professor Alan Singerman had argued a week earlier in
the pages of the Davidsonian that it is simply unreasonable to think that a complete beginning course and a complete
intermediate course can be crammed into three ten-week terms. Dr. Singerman’s argument apparently failed to convince Mr. Jordan, who tenaciously
clings to the belief that the inability of Davidson students to function in a foreign language after three terms is
in some way attributable to our “ineffective” methodologies.

Perhaps a glance at recent history will shed some light on the present controversy. During the decade of the sixties,
American college students were rebelling left and right against all required courses and especially against two and even three-year language
requirements. Davidson was fortunate in that it was able to hold on to what now amounts to a one-year requirement.
Most institutions succumbed to student pressure and abandoned the language requirement altogether. An important point to consider is that at
those colleges and universities which resisted these demands for reduction or elimination of required courses in foreign languages, both the
beginning and the intermediate courses continue to be year-long courses. At the University of Iowa, for example, beginning language courses
meet five days a week—not counting time spent in the language laboratory—over the course of two full semesters. This translates
into 150 contact hours as opposed to only 100 contact hours in a beginning language course at Davidson. What is
far more important, however, is the significantly greater amount of time students are exposed to the language: thirty weeks as
compared to twenty weeks.

By alluding to the attack on required courses in the sixties and early seventies, I wish to underscore that the
existence of the present three-term language requirement at Davidson is the result of a political decision and not a pedagogical
one. Professor Singerman’s statement that the current Davidson curriculum “stretches expectations beyond credible limits” must be understood in the context
of his experience as a language teacher. The materials used in Davidson’s version of Intermediate French (the revamped ten-week French
20 course) were designed for a year-long intermediate French program. What we are able to accomplish in one term in
French 20—many students complain that we try to accomplish too much—represents slightly less than one semester of the work covered
at the same level at Professor Singerman's home institution, the University of Maine. Students at the intermediate level there cover
twelve units in two semesters. Davidson students, using a reduced amount of the same material, cover only five units. No
manner of “beefing up” or “intensification” of the present courses at Davidson will compensate for the lack of sufficient time
to assimilate the grammar, vocabulary, and phonetics of a foreign language. This assimilation occurs at the beginning and intermediate levels.
If the rudiments of the language are not absorbed then, everything thereafter will be patchwork and frenzied improvisation with their
unlimited potential for frustration.

As a step in what I consider to be the right direction, I would argue for an optional fourth course
after completion of the three-term required sequence. This advanced intermediate course would allow time for the serious language student to
round out the intermediate level before facing the challenges of courses in composition and literature which require a greater mastery
of grammar and a more extensive vocabulary than can be acquired in 30 short weeks.

Mr. Jordan also relates the frustration of returning JYA students who “lose much of their proficiency when they return to
Davidson because of lack of contact with the language.” To be sure, Davidson is not Montpellier or Marburg, but I
would encourage these students to take the risk of reaching out to native speakers of French and German among the
student body and in the community. They could share their hard-won linguistic skills with language students at Davidson by forming
clubs, setting up language tables in the eating houses or the new Commons. They could also come to see some
of the full-length commercial films which the French department brings to campus every year. They could spend more time sampling
the vast assortment of foreign-language newspapers, weekly news magazines, and other periodicals in the College Library. I do not think
it an unreasonable expectation that the truly motivated language student generate some of his or her own excitement and enthusiasm
in the pursuit of that elusive but laudable goal of genuine linguistic proficiency.

Charles Dockery is an Associate Professor of French.

College's hiring, evaluation policies are immoral and insulting

Mike Dailey, Professor of Sociology

I am not bitter about my not being hired to fill the regular appointment to the Department of Sociology and
Anthropology, but I am profoundly disappointed at the lack of professional ethics and basic consideration shown me by representatives of
a college officially anchored in Christian ideals. The following editorial is an elaboration upon this basic theme of disappointment.

First, I would like to correct several inaccuracies in The Davidsonian article of April 24, 1981 in which my case
was discussed. Regarding the headline, the new sociologist is not a “Yale professor,” but a Yale graduate student, a Ph.D.
candidate. She will be teaching in the Department of Sociology and Anthropology, not simply the Department of Sociology. It is
hard enough for Bob Myers to bear the burden of the Lone Anthropologist without having to deal with a lack
of titular recognition. Finally, reading the article gives me the impression that I am hanging on to false hopes that
the new sociologist will renege upon her contract should she and her husband both find employment in another geographical area.
I fully expect her to be here in the fall and to do a good job in her new position.Now
to the meat of the matter. I was hired in the summer of 1979 as a Visiting Instructor of Sociology,
a two-year position. In my contract was the provision that I would be eligible to be a candidate in the
national search for a regular appointment that would begin in the fall of 1980. The search was begun last fall
and three candidates were selected, including myself. One candidate decided to accept another offer before a decision was made here.
The second candidate was offered the position but turned it down. That left me as the remaining candidate. I had
been led by my chairman to believe that, should this situation occur, I would be the logical choice. However, rather
than offering me the position, the search was reopened with no real explanation by the Administration. When I asked Vice
President for Academic Affairs Zimmermann why this had happened, I was told that “judgments made in searches are comparative and
prospective.” The meaning of this is unclear to me. I was clearly told, however, that I would not be told
the reasons for my not being hired, except “in a diagnostic sense.” I may only presume that this meant, were
I to be given explicit reasons for not being hired, then these could possibly be attacked and disproven in a
court of law. It is to the advantage of the institution not to tell me, however much it is injurious
to my dignity. In retrospect, I should have taken this implied rejection as such. But, as I was told by
Zimmermann that I was still a viable candidate, I persevered. Two more candidates were interviewed and, finally, one was offered
the position and accepted.

My main point of contention is not that I was not hired. I am not so vain as to argue
that I am the best possible candidate for the position. I would, however, argue that I am a good one.
It is that, although I was assured by Zimmermann that I had “received every consideration in the search process,” in
actuality I had not. I have never been interviewed by President Samuel Spencer, certainly an obvious “consideration.” I was never
formally interviewed by Zimmermann for this permanent position. I gave a guest lecture in another sociology class so that my
performance as a teacher could be measured in a manner as analogous as possible to that of the other candidates
(a student evaluation form). In fact, the initial offer was mailed out on the same day as my lecture. Since
the student evaluation forms were not even distributed until the next day, this assessment was ignored in my case, and
I had wasted my time. These are glaring personal insults. They do not directly affect the long-term goals of the
College, nor its financial security. They do seem out of place in a church-related college, but perhaps I am an
idealist.

Two other points I would like to mention, however, do involve the College as an institution. These involve an Ivy
League bias and reverse discrimination based upon sex. Please read on. Vice President for Academic Affairs Zimmermann, in The Davidsonian
article of April 24, 1981 entitled “Religion majors question Davidson hiring policies,” is reported to have indicated that “he considers
an applicant’s educational background important, but Ivy League background is irrelevant.” This is commendable and implies a commitment to the
spirit of universalism which should inform all academic hiring decisions. However, I believe that a universalistic criterion was not used
in the selection of candidates for the sociology position. I am not addressing the question of the abilities of individual
candidates. I do not know these abilities. However, the failure of universalism is evident in an examination of the geographic
distribution of the four female candidates. Their respective graduate schools are no more than 460 miles apart. Three of these
schools are no more than 260 miles apart. They fall within the heartland of the Ivy League and within an
angle of only 35 degrees, with Davidson at the apex. I sincerely doubt that this narrow distribution is coincidental. I
can, however, entertain the possibility that colleges and universities may vary as to “quality.” Davidson College, in my estimation, ranks
high within its size and type categories on many dimensions that tap this notion of “quality.” But no one would
argue that a student who barely oozes past graduation requirements at Davidson has acquired an intrinsically “higher-quality” education than a
dedicated, industrious student graduating with honors from a “lower-quality” institution such as Large State University. A more viable argument could
be made that the relative “quality” of academic departments should be a factor in comparatively evaluating candidates, within reason (see
“no one would argue...” above). Indeed, Davidson has hired a sociologist, not, for example, a Harvardian. But no real attention
was apparently paid to the relative “quality” of specialty areas within these departments that mirror the courses to be taught
here. To be fair, a fifth candidate was not female and was educated in the Southwest.

Which brings up a final point — Davidson College wants female and other minority faculty members, including alumni. Memoranda from
the Administration have been circulated to this effect. I question the ethics of reserving two temporary faculty positions specifically for
black professors. This strikes me as blatant tokenism. I believe that the Administration has made efforts to hire black scholars
on regular appointments, and can appreciate the hesitation of black scholars to join an institution that, frankly, expresses prejudicial and/or
racist attitudes via certain students, faculty members, and administrators. But the relevant point here regards reverse discrimination and women. I
view this process as a necessary evil and cannot fault Davidson for attempting to hire more female faculty members. Personally,
however, I am of the male persuasion, the disproportional majority. This biological fact has worked to my disadvantage. To repeat
myself, I am not bitter, but very disappointed. Davidson has tremendous assets—a solid financial base, an equally solid and impressive
faculty, and an alarmingly competent student body. I have grown and learned much in my two years at Davidson—most of
that knowledge positive and all of it useful. It would be a terrible injustice to allow continuing errors in judgment
to detract from what Davidson College has the potential of becoming.

Mike Dailey was a Sociology Professor at Davidson for the 1979-80 and 1980-81 school years.
