January 16, 1980—The Davidsonian—5

The Moral Majority protests Brave New World — Iredell County showdown

Anthony Abbott, Professor of English

Early in December, the Department of English received a letter from Michael Shinn, an English teacher at North Iredell High School, who was requesting help. He was teaching Aldous Huxley’s Brave New World, and the father of one of his students had filed a complaint protesting that the book was blasphemous, promoted the taking of drugs, was anti-family, and encouraged promiscuous behavior among the young. Because of the parent’s request, the book was taken out of circulation, and a series of hearings ensued, ending with the decision of the Iredell County Board of Education on Monday, January 5, to restore the book to classroom use with the provision that no student be forced to read something his or her parents object to. As a result of the fracas, the media board of North Iredell High School submitted to the County Board of Education a revised set of guidelines for handling future cases.

During the proceedings, I kept close touch with the issue, attending both the subcommittee hearing in December and the Board meeting in January. I talked with the teacher, his chairman, and the two ministers who represented the parents objecting to the book. What follows are my impressions based on these experiences and conversations.

First, I am pleased that the controversy brought about a change in the procedures in Iredell County. One of the alarming things about the complaint was that any parent could, in effect, stop a book from being taught by registering a complaint. Under the proposed revisions in the guidelines, a book, like a human being, is presumed innocent until proven guilty. A book will not be removed from classroom use because of a complaint until the media board of the school reviews the case and votes to remove the material or until the Board of Education itself does so. This is an important principle and one that should have been written into the procedures earlier.

Second, I was pleased by the way in which the school officials, students, and teachers handled themselves. They did a thorough job of preparing their defense, and the students in particular demonstrated that they were mature enough to read the book, understand it, and defend it.

What frightened me about the case were the implications of the complaint. Two long statements were made by the ministers attacking the book. Both statements carried with them the theory that the best way to fight evil is to try to remain apart from it. The real objection of the ministers to Brave New World is that the book gives students a picture of an evil or corrupt society. It is Huxley’s aim to satirize that society. The same might be said of other books that have frequently been attacked—1984, Huckleberry Finn, Catcher in the Rye, Lord of the Flies. All of these books have been widely used in high school, and all of them pit good central figures against a corrupt or evil world. It is only by exposure to that world that those figures really learn to understand themselves and their own values.

The moral majority ministers, it seems, would rather have our students study literature in which evil is not depicted. They would like more “positive” values represented in the literature their children read. The problem with this view is that, if adopted, it would lead to the creation of a generation of young adults about as well equipped to fight evil as the characters in a Walt Disney movie. Great literature has shown over and over that good untested is not good at all. In Paradise Lost, Adam and Eve fall because of their innocence, their inability to see behind Satan’s arguments. Othello’s naivete allows him to become corrupted by Iago. The Gospel of Luke reminds us that the children of light must be well-armed to fight the children of darkness.

Newspaper articles have suggested that the attack on Brave New World is just the beginning of a movement by conservative religious groups to monitor the reading in the state’s schools. If that is true, then school superintendents, principals, and media committees would do well to follow the lead of Iredell County, which deserves a lot of credit for handling a potentially explosive situation with tact, with fairness, and with respect to all parties involved.

Draft? Freedom is Supreme Value
Rob Campany ’81

Draft? Freedom is worth fighting for
Paul Griffith '83

I was slightly sickened to read the Registration Update presented in the last issue of The Davidsonian by the members of the misnamed Davidson Registration and Draft Information Service. Their resistance to a registration and draft is based, I believe, largely on selfish and shortsighted motives. A quick look at today’s all-volunteer forces will make it clear to anyone that the state of our enlisted military is in shambles. Among the problems: Pay is ridiculously low; for example, 16% of all Air Force families qualify for food stamps. The shortage of manpower is becoming acute; not one of the services met its recruiting goals in 1979. There is a disproportionate number of minorities in the military; it is projected that by 1985 the Army will be 45% black. And most importantly, the intellectual capacity of our armed forces has dropped to alarmingly low levels. In 1979, only 3.2% of the enlisted men had some college experience; barely half had high school diplomas; and almost 45% were classified as category IV—soldiers who read at a fifth-grade level and are marginally trainable. Is today’s all-volunteer army representative of the intelligence, skills, income, and education levels of our nation as a whole? Is itJust that the task of defending our country falls upon those who have gained the least from this democracy? Can any of us in good conscience allow this unfair, absurd, and dangerous situation to continue? By allowing this steady decline of our military, we are precipitating the crisis that many believe we are preventing. Believe it or not, the military exists in order to maintain peace. The United States is not an aggressive country. We do, however, have treaties we must respect, interests we must protect, and the moral responsibility to assist those countries that desire to remain free when under the threat of tyranny. A policy geared toward isolationism that the members of the Davidson Registration and Draft Evasion Information Service seem to advocate by resistance of the draft is absolutely no longer feasible. “To pretend that huge amounts of money, intelligence, manpower, and armaments are not being massed against the survival of liberty in the world is to live in a world of dreams and wishes.” The best way to prevent a military confrontation (that to many seems imminent) is to have a strong defense, one that is impossible to have without a draft. Personally, I am tired of hearing about the shortcomings of our national strength. People laugh at the words “strong diplomatic action.” America is being spit on and pushed around. We have gained so much from our freedom. Has it come to the point where we take it all for granted? Can we continue to let the “hired help” tend to our defense? It is my belief that as citizens of this free country we should give something back. The military is not all rifles and bullets; roughly four-fifths of the personnel are involved in non-combat arms jobs. If you are considering or are presently evading the draft registration, think about the freedom you possess. Do you deserve it? Is it worth fighting for? If you dig down below the talk about political expediency and social utility that so often obscures the draft issue, you realize that the question at stake is really a moral one: What makes it right for the state to compel people to serve in its armed forces? The answer usually given, from Socrates on down, is that by living under the state we “tacitly consent” to obey all of its dictates. That is strange, because my dictionary defines consent as voluntary agreement; yet I, like Thoreau, am unable to remember agreeing to obey any of the government’s dictates. Yet surely if consent is voluntary, and I have consented, I must have done so deliberately at some particular time in my life; it cannot be that I have consented despite myself, or without knowing it. But the notion of tacit consent in effect does tell me that I have consented without knowing it. That is nonsense. Tacit consent is no consent at all. Again, people get out old notions about “the social contract” to justify political obligation. And again, I would come across innovators telling me that I am under obligation to submit myself to any restrictions that others have foolishly submitted themselves to, if I benefit at all by their submission. The problem here is that, the way these innovators talk, I cannot help “benefiting” from others’ self-restrictions. It seems outrageous to say that if I am given a gift I may then legitimately have my money seized to pay for it, or that I (morally) must mow my lawn as often as my neighbors mow theirs. People have an obligation to obey just laws; they have no obligation to obey unjust ones; there is no general obligation to obey laws where the moral status of those laws is left unspecified. I had thought these principles were clearly enough set forth in the Declaration of Independence. What, then, makes it right for the state to compel people to serve in its armed forces? Certainly not tacit consents, hypothetical contracts, or extortion based on previous benefits. Until a moral justification is provided for the draft, I can only regard it as coerced service—as political slavery. I will resist it unless I decide on prudential grounds that it would be wiser to comply, like the slave who only appears servile in order to advance his own secret ends. Is what I say radical? Yes, but only in the sense that Jimmy and Ronald and others would disapprove of it. That does not greatly perturb me. Let everyone read Thoreau. The Davidsonian welcomes columns on any subject. We reserve the right to edit for clarity, length, and accuracy. Call Opinions Editor James Barrat (-6257) if interested. Columns do not necessarily represent the views of Davidsonian editors or staff.