April 3, 1981—The Davidsonian—3

Abortion is permissible when its social and economic benefits are great

When does a human life begin? The search for a precise and universally satisfactory solution to the question is doomed to barrenness; it may be that the ultimate authority on the problem of abortion lies in each man’s stomach. The focus of the philosophical attention lavished upon the legalization of abortion has been upon the problems of definition, and despite all the furor, no resolutions appear imminent. The process of locating the inception of human life is an implicitly moral endeavor, essential to most arguments for and against abortion. He who succeeds in establishing his own definition of “personhood” is well on his way to a polemical victory. Yet no such definition has proven mutually agreeable. I shall herein deem the problems of definition moot.

Another approach may prove more fruitful, an avenue which might be considered as the liberal, secular counterpart to the official position of the Catholic church, which contends, in effect, that “precisely because ensoulment is an unverifiable occurrence, we can’t locate it with certainty, and hence abortion at any stage involves the risk of destroying a human life.” I am quite happy, for the most part, with the Catholic’s formulation of the problem (although discussion of “ensoulment” rather worries me); I am diametrically opposed to his injunction.

It is desirable, for many reasons, that society seek to prevent the murder of children. Hence, it is the burden of society to establish an at least vaguely discernible point, somewhere on the timeline of human development, after which the intentional destruction of the organism becomes a culpable offense. This point is clearly not located after birth, nor is it found before the formation of the zygote, but lies somewhere in between. Viability seems, prima facie, a worthy candidate; at this stage the fetus becomes, at least theoretically, an autonomous creature, capable of independent life. I do not attempt to specify viability as the time of life’s beginning, but merely suggest it as a useful, if morally arbitrary and biologically fuzzy, line of demarcation, after which those persons who terminate pregnancies are to be judged guilty.

This position is of course open to the criticism, often cited by conservatives, that there is no relevant distinction between a fetus just before viability and one immediately after. But it is also true that the destruction of an inchoate embryo is not the same as the slaughter of a post-natal infant, and it behooves society to delineate this distinction, for legal purposes if for no other. Let us agree that a fetus past viability is entitled to all of the rights ordinarily accorded a human being. I simply believe that it may not be wrong, in some cases, to permit the abortion of pre-viable human organisms. The exigencies of contemporary society demand such permission.

What then of the pre-viable fetus? Here lies the dilemma. If the fetus is a human being, then abortion is equivalent to murder. If it is not a human being, then the fetus possesses a separate moral status. Contemporary society must either disallow abortion entirely, at considerable social cost, or permit the practice in certain instances, thereby risking murder. The liberal opts for the risk, on utilitarian grounds. It may be that the manifest economic and social benefits of permitting abortions outweigh the sense of moral surety which would obtain in a society which outlawed them.

The course of the argument circumvents the inveterate snags posed by problems of definition: “I do not wish to quibble. It may be that the embryo is a human being, but I am not convinced that this is so. We shall not soon resolve the matter. We have agreed to condemn the killing of post-viable fetuses. I simply believe that it may not be wrong, in some cases, to permit the abortion of pre-viable human organisms. The exigencies of contemporary society demand such permission. It is a risk I consider morally justifiable.”

If the opposing advocates can establish the insolubility of the question of the inception of life, the discussion can then turn to the utilitarian merits of the various alternatives. It is remarkable that the liberal’s position grows increasingly attractive as societal circumstances worsen, as “the multiplication of mankind transforms the preservation of each new life into an increasingly direct threat to every human life.” The world’s population mushrooms, and liberals find themselves on firmer ground.

The conservative’s effort to prohibit abortion by legal means is misguided. Roger Wertheimer’s blithe assertion that “it is singularly inappropriate to label a man heartless who wants only to protect innocent human lives at all costs” must not go unchallenged. Is it not odd that the stereotypical “Right to Life” advocate, cozy and secure in his suburban home, and so effusively mindful of the putative rights of thousands of unwanted fetuses that he clamors for a constitutional amendment prohibiting abortion, is unwilling to donate more of his time and money in an attempt to relieve the wretched plight of a pregnant inner-city mother of nine—now going on ten—children? It is a matter of priorities. The conservative, choosing to forego the socio-economic benefits that accrue as a result of the legalization of abortion, ought then, it seems to me, to be in the very vanguard of the effort to distribute contraceptives and provide family planning services. Surely it is “heartless” to deny constitutionally the alternative of an abortion to an ignorant and impoverished girl of fourteen, and to oppose simultaneously the implementation of sex education in the schools! Conception is preventable; sex is not. The conservative position is not necessarily the more humane.

Abortion should remain a private and extra-legal affair, a moral dilemma in the genuine sense. The Hyde Amendment seeks to impinge upon a twisted and tortuous and, above all, personal quandary. To deny categorically the possibility of an abortion smacks of fanaticism. It may be wrong to kill a fetus, but it may also be wrong, for manifold reasons, to bring an unwanted child into the world. No one is “pro-abortion”; abortion is and will remain an ugly and emotionally wrenching practice (atleast, until the average human sensibility is somewhat more callous than at present). The sterilized technical precision of modern medical techniques does nothing to render the process less sordid. But morality evolves as humans evolve. We seek to live in a peaceful and harmonious society, and establish our moral systems accordingly. Murder has no place in our society. Perhaps abortion must. It may be that we are killing human beings. But I submit that we will not resolve the question, and that, in any case, the allowance of abortions is a risk worth taking. Abortion’s grave moral risks outweigh its social benefits. All the medical and social facts necessary for deciding the abortion issue are in. The dispute is over how to interpret these facts. One focus of the dispute is whether or not we should call the fetus a human being or person. The question of the fetus’ personhood is a moral, not a factual, question. Closer scrutiny of the fetus will not solve the issue. My argument is that in the face of uncertainty as to how to interpret the facts of abortion, we interlocutors should adopt a certain attitude upon entering the abortion argument, and that attitude leads us to a particular substantive conclusion, or at least to a presumption. Many writers on the abortion controversy have stressed the human, personal nature of argument. This point bears particularly strongly on moral argument. One can afford to be indifferent to the outcome of logical or semantic disputes in a way that is impossible in moral disputes. Moral issues have a kind of weight to them, a gravity which calls for the utmost sensitivity on the part of those who debate these issues. Interlocutors should remain mindful of this gravity; they should cultivate the Roman virtue of gravitas. Now this sense of abortion’s gravity, combined with the uncertain nature of the issue of personhood, should incline interlocutors to allow abortions only for fairly weighty moral reasons. In the face of the notorious imprecision of the concept of personhood, disputants ought—morally ought—to presume that fetuses are persons. That is, they ought to treat fetuses as if they were persons, as if they had the rights that persons have. They might well say, what Wittgenstein said: “My attitude towards him is an attitude towards a soul. I am not of the opinion that he has a soul.” Liberals who point to the early fetus and refuse to call it a person may be employing a loaded concept of person. I am suggesting that if they are sensible of abortion’s gravity they will not be quick to define away the problem in this way; that, in fact, they will admit for the sake of argument that the fetus should be presumed to be a person. Liberals who persist in refusing to grant this presumption are perhaps like the gardeners in the following story. Suppose it were considered by gardeners immoral to destroy roses, because there was a generally agreed upon moral rule that every rose has a right not to be destroyed (ceteris paribus). Now suppose that a novel sort of plant began to grow in the garden, a plant which, when its first shoot appeared, exhibited hardly any of the characteristics of a rose; but which, when allowed to grow uninhibited, came to be, not merely a plant similar in certain respects to a rose, but actually a rose, as much a rose as any of the roses in the garden. Suppose that, try as they might, the gardeners could not decide whether the tiny shoot was really a rose or not. Suppose finally that this novel plant was sometimes troublesome when young: it had prickly thorns, or was unpleasant to the eye. Would a gardener who was quite serious about the moral injunction not to destroy roses then simply pluck up the novel plant without another thought? If he did so, would we not say of such a gardener that he was proceeding a bit hastily? Yet this is precisely what the liberal would have us do in the case of abortion. I ask the liberal to consider that he may be in error concerning the fetus’ personhood and, since this is so, whether he had better not err on the side of moral safety. If he is serious about the value of human life and the seriousness of morality, he will carefully and humbly weigh the matter, sensible of its gravity, and he will approach the question with a presumption against taking the fetus’ life—a presumption which might perhaps be outweighed by other considerations in some types of cases, but a presumption nevertheless. On another level, what I am saying is that, since fetal status is not a factual question, since there is no as yet unknown fact which when discovered will enable us to decide after all whether the fetus really is a person or not, the decision whether to apply the predicate of personhood to it has to be made on other than factual grounds. John Davis and I interestingly agree up to this point. For him the other grounds are a weighing of the economic and social benefits of abortion as against “the sense of moral surety” that we would have if we outlawed abortion. I do not wish to minimize the socioeconomic benefits that accrue to mothers and families who are able to rid themselves of unwanted pregnancies. But I am also concerned that we not minimize the other side of the balance in John’s scale metaphor. What stands in the balance against abortion’s socioeconomic benefits is the terrible risk of killing what just might be human persons. For someone who is grave about the matter, more is at stake than his “sense of moral surety.” I do not necessarily advocate different policies than the ones John advocates. I simply stress the importance of a certain kind of consideration in reaching policy decisions. We differ only in relative emphasis, yet the difference is important. John Davis and Rob Campany are senior Philosophy majors enrolled in Professor Carl Cohen's Philosophy in Public Affairs seminar.