McIntyre's Goodbye: Ideas for Better WDAV

ED MCINTYRE

WDAV Director Ed McIntyre is resigning his position as of January 31. McIntyre became the radio station's first full-time director in February 1979.

“We'd like to express our terrific appreciation to Ed," Director of Communications John Slater said. Slater praised McIntyre for his work, which began “under very difficult circumstances." McIntyre is leaving the station "well-established financially, with over 3,000 subscribers," Slater said. The College is now interviewing candidates for McIntyre’s position. Slater said WDAV Production Director Jan Weller will act as director until a replacement is found. Response to the College’s job search has been “quite good," Slater said.

McIntyre now plans to return to his native Florida. Before coming to Davidson, he worked for University of Florida’s WRVF and was music director for Wake Forest’s WFDD. The following is McIntyre’s message to the Davidson community.

I would appreciate an opportunity to express a few thoughts about my imminent departure from Davidson. As many already know, I have resigned as Director of WDAV and will be leaving the College shortly after January 31st.

First, I must express my everlasting appreciation to dozens of students, faculty and staff members, spouses, and others in the community who have made my job easier with their encouragement, time, patience, and sympathetic ears. However large or small a role I have played in the development of WDAV, the station has never been and never will be the creation of one person. In a sense, the entire College and community have had some part in WDAV’s success.

When I came to Davidson in February 1979, I saw three major jobs to do for WDAV: (1) Restore the credibility of the station that had been so badly damaged in the fall of 1978; (2) create in the staff a sense of professionalism; and (3) establish the station in systems via satellite.

We must consider the possibility that WDAV’s present format will need to be refined in the face of this increasing competition. I certainly don’t want to advocate a complete change in WDAV’s basic classical format; but two things will need to be accomplished to protect WDAV's unique status and to protect Davidson’s investment in the station.

First, more emphasis must be brought to performances by local musicians. WDAV will need to expand its involvement with area musical groups, from the Charlotte Symphony to the local high school chorus. There is much good music to be heard right in our coverage area, and WDAV can both promote these performances and provide listeners with musical programming unavailable from any other source. Commercial recordings and syndicated tape shows will never be eliminated entirely, of course; but taped and live performances will help preserve WDAV’s unique quality.

Second, WDAV must develop the staff and facilities to provide news and informational programming for its coverage area. Regular 3-5 minute newscasts, supplemented by slightly longer features or vignettes, would not appreciably disrupt WDAV’s overall musical format. Emphasis should be given to events and personalities here at the College and in the North Mecklenburg-South Iredell-Lake Norman area. Such programming could provide a much-needed radio service for local residents (other than WBT, where can you hear a decent newscast at night in Davidson?); it would provide an additional outlet for the promotion of intellectual and cultural activities here at the College; it would provide another means for the College to serve the immediate community; and it would provide more Davidson students with more opportunities for broadcast experience than our present format affords.

To produce this expanded schedule of local performance and informational programming, WDAV will need a better facility. Our present set-up in the Union basement is overcrowded, not well-lighted, and hardly adequate. By expanding the scope of its programming, WDAV can become the College’s most efficient and effective means of informing the greater Charlotte area about all of the activities and ideas that Davidson generates.

In retrospect, I think that the first and third jobs were done rather well. I wish I had done a better job on the second, but I have been pleased with the dedication that so many WDAV staff members have exhibited.

I have decided to leave Davidson at this point for two major reasons: My sheer physical and emotional exhaustion due to the day-in, day-out responsibilities of the job; and my desire to spend some of my time on activities other than broadcasting. I could also say that I don't believe that I am possessed of the abilities to accomplish the three major jobs remaining at WDAV. I see these as (a) the development of a production capacity for better local musical programs and informational programs as well; (b) helping WDAV qualify for funding from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and affiliation with National Public Radio; and (c) the acquisition of enough staff time, equipment, and money to accomplish (a) and (b).

WDAV as it exists now is a far better service than it was in the summer of 1978, when the station first went to 18,500 watts. As a classical service, meeting the needs of a segment of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg radio audience in the year 1981, the station does a more-than-adequate job. But the trustees and administration of Davidson College cannot afford to be complacent and expect the present WDAV to be sufficient for the next decade. What is now a unique service for this area may not be unique forever. WDAV will face competition.Not just from other local radio stations, but from other radio signals imported by satellite; from a vastly expanded range of viewing on cable TV, low-power TV stations, and direct satellite-to-home TV signals; and from a burgeoning supply of videotapes and videodiscs. Already, cable TV systems in 30 states carry the programming of WFMT-FM of Chicago (considered by many programmers as the finest classical music station in the country); the radio signal is relayed to the cable. 

We will need a better production room (two would be even more desirable, given the volume of programming that would need to be produced) and better electronics for the room. A newsroom and studio would be needed. More importantly, WDAV will need people; not warm bodies, but people with the dedication and the skill to produce this new programming and with the patience and time to teach others how to produce it. Davidson students will (I hope) remain an important part of the operation; but even a larger number of students than WDAV now employs would not provide a consistent and reliable staff. Most students lack the time to work at the station, given their academic and extracurricular commitments; and the talents required of the staff are not that common. The skills and the knowledge involved in this kind of broadcasting are not easily acquired. Moreover, WDAV must be on the air 365 days a year; the station needs a reliable staff during breaks, vacations, and exam periods just as much as during the academic terms. Those students with the time and the desire should indeed have an opportunity to contribute to WDAV; but the station still needs time to train them, just as it would need time to train volunteers or part-time workers who live in the North Mecklenburg area. Thus, I cannot but see the need for adding at least two and perhaps as many as five more full-time staff members to the station, to provide enough hands, minds, and voices to enable the station to carry out its mission(s) without wearing out the staff members in short order. 

No one realizes better than myself the increased costs that such developments would entail for WDAV and Davidson College; and I am hardly unaware of the financial strains that plague other areas of the College, particularly in the cases of faculty salaries and housing. The trustees have decided to commit $50,000 (less than half WDAV's current budget) to the station’s annual operating expenses, and I have heard of no intention of increasing that amount. The station is faced with raising more money from its listeners and underwriters every year, if only to keep up with the inflation rate. Funding from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and from the State of North Carolina’s Agency for Public Telecommunications is part of the answer to the increased needs of WDAV, but only part. Even now it is questionable whether our studio facility would be large enough and equipped well enough to allow WDAV to qualify for funds from CPB. We certainly have to add another full-time staff member (five in all) before we could qualify. In addition, given the more-or-less constant amount of available CPB funds and the increasing number of public radio stations seeking those funds, WDAV might find its share shrinking every year. 

Having written all this, I am hard-pressed to suggest any solution for the problems of developing WDAV other than (a) a definite commitment on the part of the trustees to provide the station with adequate staff and facilities; (b) a long-range plan to bring about this development in annual steps; and (c) an aggressive fund-raising program for the station that would seek to stimulate contributions from the station’s constituency, not that of Davidson College. Perhaps the station’s new tower facility, to be erected this spring, will aid greatly in expanding that constituency; but what is needed most of all is commitment, and if I have failed in anything while serving as Director of WDAV, it has been in eliciting such commitment from the administration and trustees. I hope my successor will see fit to do a better job in that respect. I hope he'll have the time.

I have been told several times by members of the staff and faculty that there were many among them who opposed the upgrading of WDAV from a student-run station to a professionally-oriented radio service. Naturally, I feel and think differently. By expanding the scope of its programming, WDAV can become the College's most efficient and effective means of informing the greater Charlotte area about all of the activities and ideas that Davidson generates, as well as providing cultural sustenance. If there is anyone who still believes that investing dollars in WDAV will bring back more dollars in contributions for Davidson, I would advise him to abandon the notion now. But the repayment of that investment in terms of public attention and goodwill toward Davidson could become invaluable.

There are many people on this campus whom I will miss. There are more whom I have hardly gotten to know or have not even met, both because of lack of time and an unfortunate reticence on my part. I hope that there will be other opportunities in the future. Davidson College is an institution unique in my experience; and my time here has affected me more profoundly than I would have dreamed two years ago. All told, I think it has been for the better. I hope Davidson feels the same.