Ron Zie wasn’t a big man, but he talked loud enough and he smiled bright enough that he could convince
you he was a big man if you weren’t paying attention. In July, when the work was done, usually late
evening, the crew would mill around the cannery, some straggling back to their camps on foot, and others driving off
into the night. Ron was a foreman and so stayed later, and liked to spend a few minutes standing on
the dock, looking over the moored boats, the littered beach, and the black Kenai River, which flowed westward. The lights
of Sea Catch were always on at night; great white spheres that pitched the buildings and sheds against the dark
sky and drew large, slow insects from the Kenai. The river had lights of its own that danced and glittered
on the current’s waves. It was lonely out on the dock then and it was here that Ron would tell
his stories about Dutch Harbor. And then he'd glare at the black Kenai with something akin to jealousy or longing.

“Me and my old lady, man,” he’d begin, and his black face smiled wide, and his back arched and his
arms extended and he looked as if he meant to embrace the whole night above him. “When we had it
right, we had it right.” And that might be as far as the stories got that night, or Ron might
go on to tell of his three-year-old mulatto son that still lived there, in Dutch Harbor, farther west than he
could go again.

We got out early one night and I walked across the plant in the dusk, still in my yellow rain
suit, still wet and splattered with the blood of the salmon we had cut. I wanted to ask Ron about
the tension on the slime line, the processing floor, about what was going wrong that he and Lee, his boss,
were yelling above the din of the belt, and the whining men. Ron was by the dock, head down and
jaw tight, staring into the night.

“Right here,” crooned Ron, smiling big now, victorious, gesturing to the dock that reached out into the river and early
night.

A salmon-laden flatbed for over a month had withheld a James Barrat drive two hundred miles down to ease work
all night pitching fish from a tender, and drive all the way back here before the day crew comes in
tomorrow morning. He glared at me and I looked stunned and both of us stood there dumb like we didn’t
believe what he’d just said. Both of us knew it would mean overtime, lots of it, that every miserable hour
all night would be worth nine dollars—time-and-a-half.

Sea Catch had been cutting back on overtime; keeping the processing crew’s ranks at a minimum and working us just
long enough to get the fish processed. Repairs and paint could wait. Even maintenance could wait. Everything except the fish
could wait, and it was crucial to have salmon to process every day, even if it meant sending a truck
down the coast to get it. If you didn’t have fish, you might lose your crew to a plant that
did. And if you didn’t have a crew, fish would rot, and the skippers would guide their salmon-laden boats further
up the murky Kenai until they found another dock and another crew. There were plenty.

“And where will you be?” I asked, vanquished, easy, going for the money again and beginning to picture the hold
of the Gruchenka six feet below her deck, and empty, most men could walk upright there, all along her forty.Here
is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Odd feet from bow to stern, Pete Lates was standing beside one of the plant's two-and-a-half ton GMC flatbed trucks.
"Tact am," he said. "Friday 6 A.M." The mission was at hand. "Held like a good pimp," was the consensus
among the few women on the slime line who had worked at the plant until now.

The drive down had been a breeze, offering me a dim view of the marshes and mountains, and rolling forests
of the southern Kenai Peninsula. Homer’s Spit, my destination, was a long spear of rock that jutted almost across the
Cook Inlet and then sank down, far under the Seldovia mountain range. Using a map of the natural harbor formed
by the Spit, I’d found the Gruchenka and her anxious crew, and with Mark, one of her members, had set
to work emptying the hold of its 30,000 pounds by hand. The rest of the hands busied themselves with operating
the winch that hoisted the fish from the tender to my truck by means of a chain mesh net, the
grail, into which we tossed salmon and ice.

Sleep was all around, in there with the ice; and by frozen bones, pulled me down and down, wanting to
be still and quiet, mixed in with the fish, until they tossed me into the grail and onto the truck
and then back to the slime line to be cut up and boxed and sent to Japan.

“Coffee?” Lou, the first mate, interjected occasionally through the dark mist, poking his head into the hold and smiling benignly
at us, at the fish, at the rain that drizzled on our heads, but it didn’t matter because it was
too late and too wet, and so cold...

...and then I’m turning the squelch up full on the C.B. to stay awake but I can’t and the truck
bounces off the road and back on, and I open the door for cold air, shaking, grinding in second gear...
and suddenly the road is full of life as I careen down a mountainside and a man is sprinting beside
the truck, sprinting at 59 miles per hour, outside my open door, and there’s another behind the yield sign up
ahead, ghostly white, pale as the billboard that is the pale green that pales, lumbering, into the forest...

The dock crew unloaded my truck in a flurry of forklifts as I stood by, uncomprehending. Several stood in the
morning chill, gazing at the sunrise that began over the moored boats, over the beach, over the glistening Kenai. The
chorus of gulls began in archaic unison; I left the truck and began to walk slowly to the end of
the dock where Ron Zie was slumped, head in hands, taking all of it in. He shivered as I got
nearer, looking drawn and thin.

“Long night, eh?” he said, a statement of humorless fact.

“Yep,” I replied, trying to imagine how dead I looked.

“All night, man,” Ron said incredulously, shaking, smiling now, “I don’t believe it.” He began laughing hard, silently, his body
shaking and eyes beginning to fill. “He went out to the river.”

“Dutch Harbor, again?” I asked.

“Yep, ever since you left.” We strolled near the plant, its lights dimming as the morning brightened. “Sometimes I get
it bad,” Ron laughed, “But not like I used to.”

The whites around Sea Catch were dull now, just fish, and the big winged insects lost interest, and droned slowly
back to the river.

James Barrat is opinion philosophy major and opinions editor of the Davidsonian.
