Shin Stitches

James Gelley experiments with shinty in Scotland

(The writer apologizes in advance to such champions of parochial values as Andy Rock for what he will undoubtedly see as a pretentious contribution to Davidson’s Homecoming Weekend.)

There is no dimension of a culture so revealing, so symbolic as its diversions: in particular, its outdoor sports. The English, as observers are so fond of noting, have successfully embodied their constitutional continuity and sedentary nature in Cricket. It is a game to be watched on a village green, nearly supine under a soporific summer sun, sipping something iced and in great supply like gin-and-tonic, letting the crack of “ball on bat” lull one into a truly Conservative state of mind.

The Outer Mongolians (a people born in the saddle) still play the horsebacked game from which Polo is thought to have evolved: two sides (hordes?) vie violently for a calf carcass which is gaffed and dragged from one end of a vast plain (steppe?) across an end-line (border?); this game requires all the not-inconsiderable horsemanship a Mongol can muster and is played by hundreds at a time.

We here in America clad our surrogate warriors in high-impact plastic and nylon and, placing them in monumental concrete-and-astro-turf stadiums, aim them one head-on against the other. These great objects are orchestrated by the quarterback (field commander?) and disciplined by the “Mind on the sidelines”: the coach whose brains are never, never in danger of being re-arranged by a sizeable opponent. The length of the list depends only upon the stamina of the thinker.

Ah, but there’s a game still played by what some historians consider the last Barbarians in Europe: the Highland Scots. Shinty. It is played in pastures especially mown for the occasion which are nestled grimly at the foot of the monumental crags that comprise their sides, disproving any manufacturer’s claim about the relative weather-proofing of your garments. A team consists of twelve men wielding long oaken sticks (not unlike field-hockey sticks) chasing a very hard black leather ball about the size of a tennis ball (but capable of inflicting brain damage, I expect, if it caught you in the right places). Unlike field hockey, the tame English cousin of Shinty, there are no rules about where or how one uses a stick. In fact, my first lesson was how to use the thing defensively. As far as I know, the only rules are don’t touch the ball with hand or foot, and if you must hit your opponent, try to make it look like an accident. At the end of my first season, more than half the team had had stitches, predominantly in the shins: hence the name.

I was very anxious my first game; it was against Glenorchy Shinty Club on their home turf: an irregularly shaped field at the base of a particularly cruel-looking crag. I was worried because it is each man’s responsibility to avoid getting hurt. When an enraged middle-aged Scot who is playing in front of his whole village on a foggy Saturday morning takes a swipe at these wee balls, it is all too easy to intercept his backswing with your face. Frankly, I was “afeared” for my teeth; you see, if you have never...Been out of the U.S., you don’t realize what good teeth we have. And I was afraid I’d leave some of my nicer ones on the end of somebody’s stick. I was somewhat reassured when the game started to see that I’d be playing against a red-haired boy of about my own age. Except when he smiled. I’d have liked to see him eat an ear of corn!

As I said, the whole village was there. Since the highlands are so remote, this game was the big event of the month. The town drunk was there, propped after a fashion against the corner post. Both post and sot eventually fell over, but a few of the lads ran over and reinstated them. I concluded that we would probably drink a lot less if we had in our village one perpetually sozzled old codger who we had to pick up. After the game, incidentally, he offered to buy me a drink, which I politely refused.

It was highland Scotland. Clouds usually veil these monsters of earth and rock, and vicious winds rip down.

Our changing house doubled as an auction house for cattle and had no heating or running water. We were soundly beaten, but we managed to “take a few with us.” One rather odd-looking fellow got cracked on top of the head and had to retire to get sewn up; he showed up at our hotel and played the bagpipe for most of the night. When I asked him about his pipes, which were a superb old set, he said his father as a young man had borrowed them and never bothered to return them. He said nobody could remember whose they really were, so they just had them recovered in the family tartan.

When we emerged from the changing rooms after the game, those of us “Yanks” were quite surprised to see some members of the opposition dressed in kilts. We were informed that we were so far into the highlands that men frequently wore kilts to work in. One often hears the stereotypes about Scotland concerning drink. Please allow me to confirm them. These lads could outdrink an entire Patterson Court keg party, and their ale is about three times as strong as our pathetic brew. We smoked and drank for most of the night, and I had the distinct impression that they thought I was a lightweight. I’ve never seen men who could outrun anyone on the field, hit a ball for nearly a hundred yards (and make it look easy), and spend the next ten hours drinking heavily. And you’d never want to meet a nicer people; I admit that as the hour grew later and as the room began to defy a few laws of physics, I had trouble understanding the thick Scottish accents. But they always had smiles on their faces.

I may be back in civilization, but there are things about Scotland I shall always carry with me (scarred shins and liver problems?). One of these things is the spirit of the Highland Scot, perhaps best embodied in a good game of any kind where the necessity is like the climate: hard.

David Gelly spent the last two years studying at St. Andrew’s University in Scotland.