2—The Davidsonian—January 23, 1981

News at a Glance

Students will be able to study next term under one of the nation’s foremost social and political philosophers. Dr. Carl Cohen of the University of Michigan will teach two courses, Communism, Fascism, and Democracy and a seminar on public policy. Cohen has been at Davidson twice before, as a Reynolds lecturer in 1978 and in a debate with Oxford’s Ronald Dworkin about the Bakke affirmative action case. “He's a very intense man and a fantastic public speaker,” Philosophy Professor Lance Stell said, “as well as being always accessible to students.” Stell pointed out that the ceiling of Cohen’s Communism course is 175, so “anyone who wants to should be able to get in.” Cohen’s specialties are social and political philosophy, ethics, and public policy. He has been a member of the National Board and Chairman of the Michigan chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union and a consultant to the Senate Sub-Committee on the Constitution. Cohen’s publications include Communism, Fascism, and Democracy: The Theoretical Foundations, Civil Disobedience: Conscience, Tactics and the Law, and Democracy, as well as innumerable articles. He has written extensively on Supreme Court decisions, Israel, Florida, California, and Peru.

The faculty adjourned their special meeting Tuesday without voting on the Educational Policy Committee’s revised proposals for a new core curriculum. Discussion centered around a number of recommended amendments to the proposals. Consideration of the proposals will continue at another special meeting, probably next week.

Davidson has received a $345,000 special grant for the 1981-82 fiscal year from the Duke Endowment. The grant will support the humanities, the new computer center, road improvements, the library, women’s athletics, and the Lake Campus. The major portion of the grant will go to support the humanities, which include literature, languages, history, and philosophy. These departments will receive $190,000 for salary increases, $50,000 in endowment funds, and $15,000 to match grants obtained by faculty members. The computer center will get $50,000. The grant will also help the College buy microfilm editions of journals and build a boat storage facility at the Lake Campus. The current grant represents only a portion of the Duke Endowment’s support of Davidson, which last year exceeded $1,000,000.

Washing machines and dryers are now available free of charge for student use, according to Business Manager Robert Currie. Until recently, only coin-operated machines were available. The change follows a series of complaints lodged against the laundry service last October. Several students, citing instances of lost clothing, missing buttons, and staining, requested that machines be made available without cost for those wanting to do their own laundry. “The reason the machines were coin-operated in the past was to keep outsiders from abusing them,” Currie said. There has been no abuse reported since the machines were changed, he added. Currie also said that the laundry is attempting to upgrade quality control by inspecting outgoing laundry more closely. Two sets of machines are located in the basement of Watts dormitory and two sets in the laundry building itself.

Students who are recipients of North Carolina Guaranteed loans should endorse their checks at the Comptroller's Office as soon as possible.

In addition to Michigan, Cohen has taught in New Zealand.

Subscription to The Davidsonian is $8 a year. Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28086.

Solar Greenhouse Workshop a Success
By FRANCES PALMER
Staff Writer

The solar greenhouse at the depot is almost complete. The Y-Service Corps sponsored a three-day workshop last weekend to construct the greenhouse. According to former Y President Minor Sinclair, nearly 20 people showed up for the workshop daily. Although most workers were Davidson students, there was some help from the community. One man from the depot, Roosevelt Wilson, worked on the greenhouse each day. Some construction is still incomplete. Y Greenhouse chairman Albert Connette said they need to frame in the east wall and then finish several minor things.

Reading Day Eliminated

Once completed, the greenhouse will...provide heat for the Davidson Senior Citizens’ center at the depot. Located on the south side of the building, the 12 feet by 22 feet greenhouse will operate as a “passive solar design.” Several 55-gallon drums filled with water will absorb heat during the day to heat the air inside the greenhouse. This air rises and is passed into the depot. Connette hopes that the greenhouse will be producing enough heat by the end of this weekend to heat the depot. Connette is pleased with the progress thus far. “It’s coming along,” he said. He added that it is “nice to see it” now that the greenhouse has gone from “the paper stage to being there.” Sinclair said there were “no major mistakes,” and he too is pleased with the results. He did say, though, that “it was probably a little more expensive than I had hoped.” This is because wood had to be bought to replace some that had rotted. Wilson, who moved to Davidson in 1931, worked on the construction for three or four hours. He became interested in the greenhouse project because of the ad the Y placed in the paper to help or just come by to watch. “I figured I was supposed to help,” he said. According to Wilson, others at the depot like the idea of the greenhouse. “Everybody’s well pleased,” he said. Wilson plans to use the greenhouse in April. He would like to have tomato plants, cucumbers, and possibly squash. He said, “I think it’s going to be wonderful.”

Trial calendar change: Good Friday holiday
By SCOT MYERS
Staff Correspondent

There will be no classes on Good Friday (April 9) this year. Last fall term, SGA President David Waddill submitted a proposal for a one-day Good Friday holiday to the Executive Committee of the faculty. The committee approved the proposal December 31. Because of the holiday, classes will extend through Friday, May 14. This was a reading day in the original calendar. Spring term exams will be given on Saturday, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, May 15, 17, 18, and 19. Although there will be no reading day, students may use Saturday as a reading day and still have three exam days. The spring term exam period will be the same length as the fall and winter term exam periods. The Good Friday holiday was proposed two years ago, but was turned down by the committee, Waddill said. He added that he decided to petition the committee again because students still felt the spring term was too long without an interruption. Waddill said the committee considered several different proposals, and he could sit in on their discussions. But when the committee voted he was not allowed to attend. Academic Vice-President Price Zimmermann said the holiday was approved this year only “as a trial.” But Waddill said he is certain that the holiday will remain in the calendar in the future because of the strong student support it will continue to receive. “Davidson is a religious school,” Waddill pointed out, and should recognize Good Friday as a holiday. Commencement will be on May 23 as planned.

January Clearance SALE now going on
Save 25% to 60%
Austin Hill Suits
Botany Blazers
Levi Flannels
Woolrich Downs
Lord Jeff Sweaters
Munsingwear Velours
Berle Slacks
Van Heusen Shirts
Bostonian Shoes
And All Other Winter Apparel
Downtown Mooresville

“WELCOME TO PLANNED PARENTHOOD”
“People are often nervous when they come to Planned Parenthood. They shouldn't be. We're just regular people, and we try to make everyone feel comfortable. We want you to come back and bring your friends.” Connie Brown, Receptionist

Low Cost and Confidential
Birth Control
Pregnancy Testing
Problem Pregnancy Counseling
Abortion Services
Information on birth control, V.D., prenatal care, and adoption at no cost.

FOR INFORMATION OR APPOINTMENT CALL 377-0841
MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:00-5:00 P.M.
Planned Parenthood
951 S. Independence at McDowell
Charlotte, N.C. 28202
“COME TO PLANNED PARENTHOOD BEFORE”