—Jon Glance—

Oingo Boingo.

One of the more popular albums at this station in recent months has been the debut LP by the octet
known collectively as Oingo Boingo. In this album, the relatively new group (which previously had an EP release) runs down
ten smart pop tunes in a manner that is slightly askew of normality but instantly likable. It is rather difficult
to pigeonhole this group with a restrictive label such as “power pop” (although they do play pop music which is
powerful), “robot rock” (although they do employ synthesizers and synthesized rhythms in most songs), or “new funk punk” (although they
do resemble the Talking Heads in their complicatedly funky rhythm and in Danny Elfman’s wonderfully over-the-edge singing). Basically, Oingo Boingo
plays an ’80s synthesis of pop styles.

It is when you reach beyond the basics that the intelligence, humor, and musical complexity become apparent. Danny Elfman’s songs
bristle with quirky hooks, and his singing is expertly supported by the rest of the band. When Elfman yodels the
lyrics over a “boyesque” vamp in “What You See” you begin to wonder, but in the end, it all comes
together to make you believe that he really does know what he’s doing. The standout songs in this set are
the frenetic “Only a Lad” (previously released on the EP, but in a remixed and far superior version here on
this album), the lasciviously sordid “Little Girls” and “Nasty Habits,” and the nifty electronic cover of Ray Davies’s “You Really
Got Me.”

As the frontman for this outfit, Danny Elfman reminds me of the type of childhood friend who would show you
things under rocks, and who liked to burn things. His fluid vocals always seem to be laughing at you, and
at the “hip” conventions and ideals of our time. When he claims “There’s nothing wrong with capitalism,” he ridicules the
children of the bourgeoisie who support the socialist workers while never having worked themselves (and perhaps also jabs at the
socialist bands such as the Gang of Four). He states in another song “I wear the wrong clothes / I
say the wrong things... I’m on the outside.” If more bands were on the outside with Oingo Boingo, rather than
being too ultra-hip for their own good, alternative radio would be a more entertaining adventure.

---

Gus’s Gourmet Kitchen

Homecoming celebration!
Free beer Saturday after the game (while it lasts)!

Sadler Square in Davidson

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 October 1981
