— Film reviews by Nick Graham

Some Like it Hot & The Main Event

THIS WEEK FINE FILMS PRESENT one of the finest comedies to have come out of Hollywood. Some Like it Hot was directed by Billy Wilder, the man now most closely associated in most people’s minds with the old-style big-studio system of film manufacture. Wilder’s legendary perfectionism, as much as the faultless performances of his stars, certainly helped produce in this case a comedy of almost endless amusement. Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon turn in finely judged comic performances while Marilyn Monroe is quite astonishingly good at her usual line of dithery comedy in a script full of double entendre, yet she displays a charmingly innocent sexuality which perfectly complements the murkily risqué plot.

Set in the Roaring ’Twenties, this plot concerns the fate of Curtis and Lemmon, two jazz musicians who inadvertently become witnesses of the St. Valentine’s Day Massacre. Pursued by the mob, they escape by dressing in drag and joining an all-woman ensemble where they meet Marilyn, a ukulele-playing lush. Thinking themselves safe in Florida, where the jazz ensemble has a residency, they find themselves sharing the same hotel as a Mafia convention headed by their criminal nemesis, the lugubrious ‘Spats.’

At this point Curtis and Lemmon’s attempts to have their way with Marilyn become hopelessly frustrated — she is convinced that they are women and a holidaying playboy has decided that Lemmon is the woman of his dreams.

From then onwards the plot slides off into high-class farce of the very finest sort, relying as it does upon the themes of transvestism and mistaken identity. Wilder never once lets the pace flag, and indeed works up a commendably frothy head of lunatic frenzy in a series of increasingly bizarre and embarrassing incidents in the later reels. Most impressive of the lot, however, is undoubtedly Monroe whose comic sense of timing and sexual allure make this probably her finest performance at a time when, it is said, she was already going downhill. (Norman Mailer, in his less-than-reliable biography, claims that her habitual lack of punctuality kept Curtis and Lemmon hanging around on set in their uncomfortable drag outfits for hours at a time, a point hotly disputed by her more charitable apologists.)

From the beginning to the end (featuring probably the best punchline in movies) this film boasts a flow of fine one-liners and a series of delightful situations. I thoroughly recommend that you make the effort to go along to Love Auditorium on Wednesday the 13th at 8:00 PM.

For those of you who are connoisseurs of movie trivia and the like, here is the one piece of such information which I know of associated with this film. As you are all of course aware, Some Like it Hot is in fact a remake of an earlier German version of the same story. Can you, by the way, name the all-girl jazz ensemble in the German film? No prizes, alas.

Tonight’s Pop Film is the Ryan O’Neal / Barbra Streisand collaboration of a few years ago, The Main Event. Although it was probably a mistake to try to recapture the comic excellence of their earlier hit What’s Up Doc? this stylish comedy is far from being devoid of belly-laughs and guffaws. Streisand plays a ruined millionairess whose husband/business-manager has left her with only one asset — a second-rate prize-fighter who was purchased years ago as a tax-loss. The pugilist in question is of course O’Neal and his attempts to shape up under the capable hands of Ms. Streisand make for some fine comedy which is not entirely overpowered by the stature of the protagonists. Recommended.

New Art Posters on sale now

Institute of Policy Sciences and Public Policy

A representative of the Duke Institute of Policy Sciences will be on campus on 14 October to discuss the Duke MA in Public Policy Studies. Interested students may obtain further information by contacting the Career Planning and Placement Office.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9 October 1981