Volume LXXI, Number 8
College releases
fiscal 1980-81
expenditures:

The most striking thing about College expenditures for 1980-81 is that Davidson spent $1,344,477.17 more than it budgeted and still operated in the black.

The College received just short of $2 million more income than projected.

In order to accommodate some of the cost overruns, a small percentage of unbudgeted money, usually one or two percent, is set aside and placed under College President Samuel Spencer's control. If a department consistently overspends, budget figures can be deceptive. Departments are not free to overspend. Each month they must submit an update of their spending in relationship to their budget. These updates are reviewed by the President who decides when a department has spent as much as the college can afford.

M. Davidson said one reason for the apparent overspending is that the College receives money throughout the year from donations by private sources. These contributions are not taken into consideration when the budget is proposed. However, they are added to what is spent. Therefore, the amounts actually spent are often much higher than the proposed budget. This is true, for example, under the heading “Laboratories and Departments.” A $40,000 donation allowed the College to purchase science equipment that was not included in the proposed budget. Donations also made it possible for the Music Department to purchase the piano that it had been requesting for several years.

Another factor is unexpected costs. This is particularly evident under the heading “institutional fund” where the money spent is more than 100 percent over the $400,580 proposed. Extra money given to the Plant Fund is included in the $840,312.70 that was spent in this area. The Plant Fund covers all campus buildings, the adjacent houses, and all equipment in them. Money needed to pay for extra expenses is usually raised especially for the Plant Fund through donations. But, M. Davidson said, if necessary, money can be spent for the Plant Fund, even though it is budgeted under “General Expense.” “General Expense” money was used for the Plant Fund last year when money was needed for the riding stables at the lake campus. M. Davidson said that much of the overspending in the area of “General Expense” is due to extra expenses that have arisen during the year in other areas.

By Anne Miano ’85