10 am — 5 pm Weekdays.
Chambers Gallery. Photo Exhibition — works by three photographers: Robert Doisneau of France, Alen MacWeeny of Ireland, and Manuel Alvarez Bravo of Mexico explore the human condition and spirit from differing points of view. Free.

3 pm Thurman Room, Chem Building. Chemistry Colloquium. Dr. George H. Atkinson, Dept. of Chemistry, Syracuse University will present a talk entitled “Lasers and Laser Chemistry.”

4:30 pm Commons Faculty/Student Social. The first Faculty/Student Social of winter term will have great conversation, fun, fellowship, and refreshments guaranteed to warm your heart. Be there. Aloha.

6 pm WDAV. Corrette: La Ballet des Ages; Alkan: Le Festin d’Esope; Weber: Jubel-Overture.

7 pm Charlotte Coliseum. First Union Invitational B’ball Tournament. Davidson vs. Citadel at 7 pm; UNCC vs. Holy Cross at 9 pm. Tickets for entire tournament: Box seats $15, Circle $12, Mezzanine $9, Gen. Admission $6.

7:30 pm Charlotte Public Library. Main branch, 310 N. Tryon St. The “2nd Friday Flicks” presents “Ziegfeld Girl” featuring Judy Garland and James Stewart.

8 pm WDAV. The Philadelphia Orchestra. Two works by Franck plus Dvorak’s Violin Concerto in A minor.

8 pm Love Auditorium. Pop Film “Godspell.” Come get love, get happy, and get religion. Admission $1.50, rated PG.

10 pm WDAV. Flipsides.
10 & 11:30 pm 900 Room. “Silent Partner.” Appearing for the third time, the duo will play their own unique blend of original rock and rhythm and blues. Admission is free.

8 am Gallery. GRE’s.

6 pm WDAV. Brahms: Four Hungarian Dances for Orchestra; Bach/Brahms/Ricci: Presto.

7 pm WDAV. Medtner: Piano Quintet.

8 & 11 pm Love Auditorium. Pop Film: “Dawn of the Dead.” George Romero's horror film satire of consumer society.

10 & 11:30 pm 900 Room. “Silent Partner.” See Friday.

10 pm Jazz with Bill Bambach. Tonight's program features music by Thad Jones — 1955-1963 recordings by the gifted modern trumpeter. Among the selections to be heard: “What is this Thing Called Love,” featuring Jones with Charles Mingus, “I Got it Thad,” with Sonny Rollins, “Evidence” with Thelonious Monk, and Thad Jones’ own group playing “The Blue Room.”

12 midnight WDAV. Jazz Sides.

6 pm WDAV. Lalo: Symphonie Espagnole; Mussorgsky: Intermezzo in modo classico in B minor.

7:30 pm Morrison Room. DCF.

8 pm Carolina Arts. A concert by the Rowe String Quartet, recorded in May of this year in NCNB Performance Place at Spirit Square in Charlotte. The program includes Mozart's Quartet in D major, K. 575, the String Quartet in B minor, Op. 11 by Samuel Barber (containing the famous Adagio for Strings), and Franz Schubert's String Quartet in D minor, D. 810, otherwise known as “Death and the Maiden.”

10 pm 900 Room. Bridge Night.

10 pm Sunday Sessions with Bill Bambach. Tonight’s program looks at music from films — individual songs and excerpts. These include “Gigot” by Jackie Gleason, “America, America” by Manos Hadjidakis, “The Sandpiper” by Johnny Mandel, “Windjammer” by Morton Gould and others.

6:30 pm Lingle Chapel. Catholic Mass.

7 pm WDAV. Davidson College Christmas Vespers Concert.

7:15 pm DCPC Christmas Vespers Service. This year’s service will include participation by the College’s Male Chorus, Women’s Chorus, and Concert Choir, all directed by W. Vladimir Morosan; the Brass Ensemble, directed by William Lawing; and the Flute Ensemble, directed by Shirley Jackson. Organists will be Wilmer Hayden Welsh and Jane Redd. Our chaplain Charles A. Summers will preside at the service. Offerings will be given to the DC Gift Fund for use by the St. Croix Hospital in Haiti.

11 am DCPC. The Chancel Choir of DCPC will present Benjamin Britten’s “A Ceremony of Carols” during the regular worship service. Soloists in the work, all sopranos, will be Ellen Roland, Marsha Summers, Elizabeth Davis, and Nancy Dishman. The harp accompaniment will be provided by harpist Tanya Greenfield from the N.C. School of the Arts in Winston-Salem. “A Ceremony of Carols” is a setting by Britten of a number of Middle English poems and fragments. It was composed in