The Thinker

Monday
The afternoon was late
Quiet and dreamy
On a golden stone I was sitting
And the sun began to disappear
With Autumn which never but never ends ending.

Tuesday was cold
And it did not rain
The leaves were falling
Since leaves are made for falling.

Wednesday was the same
And another Wednesday
A little girl in a yellow raincoat
Sat down on the grass
And played with a wooden doll.

Thursday was gray and rainy
The passers-by
Were feeding the birds of the town.
The birds: defecation on the walls
The trees, the roads
And on my soul.

On Friday an old man
And his old dog
Died on the street
“Heart Attack.”

Saturday-Sunday
Happy mommies and happy babies
Taking a walk in the park.

Sunday: the lights of Tivoli
Shone all night.
Why am I a statue?
— Didier Valery

Musings, while lying beneath a library carrel, and ostensibly napping

I have turned my back to the world, rather inelegantly, I suppose. Stately and plump, my posterior engages the curious. My sneakers invite further study. But the rest of me is unavailable for comment. For I am napping.

Atavistic, these naps. Some millennia ago, no doubt, one of our ancestors, weary of the chase, sought refreshment beneath an inviting rock. No one thought the less of him, I suspect. In our day, however, the nap has become an awkward and risky enterprise, an admission of frailty, and a concession to advancing age.

There is a vast disparity between sleeping and napping, and the two ought not to be confused. Sleeping remains an honorable and wholesome undertaking; one may sleep happily and indulgently, sweet and lamblike, with a clear conscience. Our organisms are entitled to periodic refurbishing. Walter Cronkite sleeps regularly, as does Ronald Reagan, and, for that matter, Bruce Jenner. All mothers encourage and approve of sleep.

Ah, but the nap! A different matter entirely. Chronic nappers have a guilty and furtive air about them, as well they should, for the nap constitutes a brazen violation of the normal order of things, a willful and conscious rejection of Western socio-political values. There is something vaguely insidious about naps, something pale and sickly and unwashed. We respect, even revere, the sleeper (Shh. Billy’s sleeping. Whisper.); we cannot avoid a certain smug one-uppedness when we flush out a nap-taker. The napper seeks first and foremost, secrecy, and fears, above all, discovery.

My roommate used to step blithely into our room at 2:30 p.m. or so, hoping to surprise me in the act. How I hated that! I would soon arise, feigning sprightliness, and mumble wretchedly something like “just about to get up anyway” or “only resting my eyes.” These face-saving attempts were pitifully inadequate, though, and we both knew it. One naps at one’s peril.

Accordingly, I have taken steps to eliminate the practice altogether. Such intentions, however ingenious, are nonetheless, from time to time, prey to stronger, more primal urgings, and on these occasions are set neatly aside. Today, for instance. Seated at my desk in the far reaches of the library basement I gradually became aware that I had been perusing the same brief paragraph for more than four minutes, and that my head was nodding with increasing violence. Confronting these alarming data, I determined to have a nap. Alas, how weak the flesh!

There was no one about. I knelt down, bundled my coat into a rude pillow and burrowed, rodent-like, beneath the carrel, snuggling tightly against the wall. I pulled the chair against the edge of the desk, an arrangement which lent an improved security to my circumstances. Surely instinct guided me; my Neanderthal kinsman probably concealed his place of repose with a fir sapling, so as to confound the woolly mammoths.

Now, here I lie, curled cozily, appreciative of the padded carpet, and feeling acutely vulnerable. I am quite wide awake.

Last week I made a valentine. It was an elaborate process. I combed the shelves at the...Card shop, and nothing suited. Thence to the art supply store, where were purchased red and white construction paper and a bottle of glue. At home, surrounded by clippings, tracings, trimmings, and scraps, the messy externalities of love (though love, I should hope, is never uneconomical), and doing my best to avoid the doggedly persistent glue, I fashioned a valentine, a bit splotchy, perhaps, and not strikingly original, but a valentine nonetheless: two hearts pierced by a white arrow. A nice effect, if I may say so. I delivered it in person, sort of. I bounded up the stairs to the room of my intended, raised my fist to knock (I knew her to be in), thought better of it, left the envelope on the door, and slithered quietly away. I will risk a valentine, but a hug is an altogether different matter.

Not much traffic underneath this desk. I study the surface in front of my face—a clean and honest wall. I am suffused with a sense of history, for this is probably the first time since its creation that this portion of the wall has been subjected to scrutiny. Perhaps I should offer some graffiti in commemoration of the event. But I never write graffiti. Except once, in Vienna. It was in an oft-frequented bathroom in a youth hostel. One wall had become, by common consent, a monumental compilation of political aphorisms from all corners of the globe. Dozens of tongues were represented, and the proprietors had long since despaired of keeping the wall clean. I, reading with some care, happened upon a spelling error. The quote was from Mill, or someone like that: “Harken to the words of the youth, for theirs is an eternal wisdom.” ‘Harken’ was spelled with an added ‘c,’ which I circled. I then added “although they are prone, occasionally, to spelling errors.” Such was my contribution to the world’s political philosophy.

The pace has quickened in the library, to my annoyance. Voices have sprung up in the long row of carrels behind me, chairs scrape and squeak, pencils protest from within the sharpeners. Every so often come the crises: approaching footsteps. I tense, listening, terrified. My head and torso are quite concealed, but my legs protrude nakedly, and I am ashamed of them. Noises receding now, gone. Diminishing pulse rate, and a respite.

As a boy I attended church, accompanying my mother and siblings. At the end of the service the entire congregation would stream out the front door. Upon the head, the minister’s moist palm was clasped, and the sermon’s virtues were extolled universally. A kind old lady (who wore a purple dress and hat every Sunday, and was known as “the purple lady”), often approached my mother to tell her that she, the purple lady, loved sitting in the pew across from us because we all looked so devout and charming. I eventually took to darting out the side door as soon as the hubbub began, and waiting in the car.

A measured tread approaches along the passageway; my senses repair to their battle stations. It stops. Pulse mounting. I can feel my legs coloring. There reigns an oppressive silence, ominous and purposeful. Then: a giggle. I lie, in agony, scarcely breathing. More footsteps, all approaching, all stopping beside the desk. Shufflings and coughing. Oh, horror unspeakable! A click, and a flash, which extends even to my darkened lair. Good lord. Someone has taken a picture. Again. I’ll probably be in the yearbook. I envision the photographer in his demonic darkroom, poring over the negatives in an attempt to determine which angle is the more ridiculous. Further giggling. I suppose they are awaiting a response. Coward, you have wasted your life! One great knot, motionless, I wait for them to disperse. If anyone asks, I will tell him that I was...