_ by Mark Elmore ‘82.

“Best thing about losing is the feeling when losing begets a win.”

The Cats dropped a very important game against Marshall 3-2 and lost sole possession of second place in the Southern
Conference. Coach Slagle admitted, “The team came out overconfident and was scored upon twice before they started playing.” Marshall’s first
two goals were the results of Davidson’s reckless defensive passing, which gave them easy shots from unstoppable distances.

Then Davidson answered. On a corner kick play near the end of the first half, Hall Barnett eased a header
into the opposite corner and brought the team alive. From that moment on, Davidson dominated the match except for a
textbook play by Marshall on which they scored their third goal on a chip from their wing to their center
forward who placed it out of Greek’s leaping reach.

But again Davidson responded. On a chip from Chucky Price, Todd Lambert headed in the second goal to put the
Cats within one.

It seemed as though we would win — the entire crowd sensed it and watched the last fifteen minutes on
tiptoe. There were dozens of shots on Marshall’s goal; there were four corner kicks, headers, bloopers, reams, and chips but,
disappointingly, nothing went in.

Victory against UNCC
Considering the loss against Marshall, think how good it felt to outscore UNCC in Charlotte on Tuesday. UNCC is a
much better team than Marshall. Describing the ’49ers, Terry Greiner said, “their skill level was very high and they were
fast.” In fact, they dominated the game for the last twenty-five minutes and outshot the Cats 17 to 7. But,
the object in a soccer match is to score goals, and they failed to score more than 1. Why? Because
Davidson played excellent team defense and rejected everything the ’49ers attempted to force by.

by John Hoots ’82

Senior Randy “Old Man” McManus turned in his best performance yet this season, leading the DC thinclads to an eleventh
place finish in the North Carolina State meet. The “Old Man” toured the rough Duke 5.4 mile course in a
blistering 27:24, placing him 23rd overall. Indeed, Randy was no stranger to the course, having run a 28:11 in September
against Duke, which was an incredible race as well. The next four Wildcat finishers came in less than one minute
apart, accounting for the success of the team. The BLP speedster, Garry Sullivan, and The Fat One, Frank Ivey, worked
together, passing several runners in their final kick. Said Frank of the finish, “we just blew by UNC’s eighth man
at the finish, and probably had ‘too much’ left.” Their times of 28:46 and 28:48 were an improvement over the
Duke meet earlier this season, and placed them 65th and 66th overall. Junior Jack Smith and Senior Danny Armistead (also
of BLP) rounded out the top five Cat finishes in 29:19 and 29:45. Sophomore Jim “JT” Trotters could be the
dark horse harrier this year. He has been improving steadily all year and bettered his time on the Duke course
by almost a minute, placing 6th for Davidson in Saturday’s meet.

Attention now focuses on tomorrow’s meet with the Citadel and UNC - Wilmington on the fast Coburg Dairy Course in
Charleston, South Carolina, as everybody will be looking for PRs on the flat, fast 10K course. The cinderheads are always
tough at home, in fact, they’d probably like to beat us almost as much as we'd like to beat them.

The Lady Cats also competed in the NC State meet on Saturday, in the AIAW Women’s Division at Duke. And
they mopped up. Junior Marian Hill (20:47) and freshman Sarah Patterson (20:48) paced the DC girls to a 4th place
finish, finishing 23rd and 25th overall. Only Chapel Hill, NC State, and Wake Forest were better. Marian said of the
race, “I went out fast and pushed hard the whole race. I wasn’t aware that Sarah was that close until
the finish.”

Yes indeed, Sarah Patterson was right on Marian’s heels, but so was the rest of the team as the whole
top 5 finished less than 30 seconds apart. Senior Carie Nunn, finishing 3rd for the girls in 21:08, was simply
amazing, despite training less than ten miles in the previous week’s practice. Freshman Jean Webb ran an outstanding race, finishing
fourth for Davidson in 21:13, almost two minutes faster than her previous time at Duke. She is running very well
in practice and is a definite “shoe-in” for the regional meet on November 7.

Finishing out the top five was Tamara Foreman, her relatively low finish due mostly to the fact that everyone else
had a super race. Tamara’s inconsistency this season stems primarily from a small distance base over the summer. She is
capable of running number one at any time, and should be in contention for top honors in the regional meet.
In fact, any one of the girls in the top five is capable of placing first, which is what makes
the Lady Cats so awesome this fall.

The girls travel to the Citadel this weekend with the men’s team and take on UNC - Wilmington’s women’s team
in a dual meet.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 22 October 1981
