Friday, 25 September 1981

DAVIDSONIAN

page 13

The Doughboys introduce the Slimshafts

(Reprinted from Highlights for Children)
Here we are again with the only article that anyone reads. We weren’t included in last week’s Druggadsonian because we
had not gotten back to campus yet from our parking spaces in the new Davidson satellite lot in Myers Park.
It seems the handicapped faculty lot in front of PiKA was full with quadriplegic economics professors. We spent this summer
looking for replacements for the departed Brick Brothers. After interviewing thousands of applicants, we did find two ex-Libyan jet pilots
finishing up a correspondence course in Sidewinder missile evasion maneuvers. Those turned down included Rodney Dangerfield, Cyrus Vance, Barry Mack,
and The Chairmen of the Board.

Davidson was the object of many changes this summer. We wanted to get to the bottom of things, so we
interviewed deranged pedophile Grover Meates.
DB & SS: What do you think of the changes in the campus that you directed?
GM: I didn’t do a good job. I should have done something with a little more imagination. We went with
our trump card brick sidewalk once too often. I apologized to the students, but I’ll make it up to them
later on when we build the new Gymnasium.

DB & SS: Why are there spaces for handicapped faculty members? And why would you make a handicapped professor park
on Patterson Court? Are there special places for black Jewish faculty members? Can the laundry workers park on the new
speed bumps since they’re painted yellow?
GM: Yes.

The new format of the Davidsonian was unveiled last week, and it looked like a cross between War and Peace
and True Grit. There’s better stuff to read in the Rare Book Room. Editor John Semen plans on doing an
in-depth report on police brutality in the South Azores, and the football team’s entire playbook will be revealed in next
week’s issue. Also included will be a pin-up of the Coppertone All-Stars headed by David Carr, Cliff Tribus, Arabella Malone,
Joe Albino, and Casper the Ghost, otherwise known as Ken Krieg.

For a bit of dessert, our weekly multiple-choice quiz:

1) What kind of man reads The Davidsonian?
a) Male Jews in Argentina.
b) Ernest and Julio Gallo.
c) Stanley Seigel.
d) Siman’s mother.

2) What is the dreaded disease that recently bit Davidson?
a) Herpes.
b) Contact Dermatitis.
c) Anorexia.
d) The Red Scare.

3) Who will win the game ball this week?
a) Fannie and Mable.
b) Mercedes T. Oglukian.
c) The Geach.
d) Chairmen of the Board.

4) Who will eat in Richards and Bailey now?
a) Wendell Washington and Sandy Carnegie.
b) Handicapped Faculty.
c) Phi-Delt groupies.
d) Chairmen of the Board.

5) What do you bring to a SPE party?
a) Your own fat girl or rent one at the door.
b) Your own parachute.
c) Your own porta-john.
d) Your American Express Card.
e) All of the above.

Later. We're off to catch a flickerball game between the Chairmen of the Board and the handicapped faculty. Next week
we’ll have those results as well as other flickerball news and some abuse of Davidson coeds (other than freshwomen).

---

Buy Two Bacon Cheeseburgers
Get One FREE!

Present this coupon and receive one FREE Texas Bacon Cheeseburger with the purchase of two.

VALID THRU OCT. 1

---

Buy Two Bacon Cheeseburgers
Get One FREE!

Present this coupon and receive one FREE Texas Bacon Cheeseburger with the purchase of two.

---

Register to win the Village Store raffle!
To be held at noon Oct. 24 Homecoming

Register each time you visit.
No purchase necessary.

THE VILLAGE STORE
107 SOUTH MAIN ST. — DAVIDSON — 892-7443
