by Elizabeth Laughlin ‘85

Linda Frost, one of the additions to the full-time faculty at Davidson this year, is a welcome newcomer to the
German department. She and her husband, Dr. Christopher Frost, moved to Davidson last year so that he could assume a
teaching position in the Classics department. Mrs. Frost taught German part-time last year.

Ms. Frost received her B.A. from Calvin College, a small, private, liberal arts college in Michigan. She then spent a
year in a German high school before coming back to the University of Cincinnati to earn her M.A. in German.
She is presently working on her dissertation for her Ph.D. from the University of Cincinnati.

Ms. Frost has been to Germany several times, including the winter term of her sophomore year at Calvin College, the
first semester of her junior year on the National Work-Study Program run by the University of Cincinnati, and in 1976
for a seminar on “U.S. and European Commerce.” She hopes to return to Germany next summer.

Describing the evolution of her interest in German, Mrs. Frost explained that she had a bad Latin teacher in high
school and was consequently “too timid” for college Latin. Her second choice of a foreign language was Spanish, but because
the Spanish classes had been filled, she landed in German by chance. After spending part of her sophomore year submerged
in the culture, putting her knowledge of the language to work, she decided to become a German major.

Mrs. Frost is currently teaching two beginning German classes, and will teach the continuation of these classes plus an “Introduction
to German Literature of the Twentieth Century” class during the winter term.

---

Tonight in Love Auditorium UNION POP FILMS PRESENTS

8 & 10:30 pm

-TWO FOR ONE SALE-

CLIP THE COUPON AND SAVE!

Buy One Taco Get One Free

Take this coupon and receive one taco free for every one ordered.

Buy One Mexi-burger Get One Free

Take this coupon and receive one Mexi-burger free with every one ordered.

Valid through 24 Oct.

---

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 16-October 1981 | 7
