The ERA: Constitutional perversion, shocking effects, fearful homemakers

Charles Douglas

Discrimination on the basis of race, religion, national origin, and sex has been a major problem in our society, and
has been the target of social reformers for years uncounted. Although discrimination still exists in some way against all minorities,
and women, most are satisfied with the manner in which solutions to their problems have been undertaken. Women, however, still
claim that the level of discrimination which exists against them is unacceptable. These women feel that the Equal Rights Amendment
will solve their problems.

The most avid opponents of the ERA agree that a problem does exist, but question the necessity and effectiveness of
this particular amendment to the constitution. There is definitely no lack of legislation preventing discrimination on the basis of sex.
The most prominent piece of legislation which has been passed is the Fourteenth Amendment. This amendment contains the equal protection
clause which grants women all the rights under the law which men possess. There are also scores of statutes prohibiting
classification by sex as well as the Civil Rights Act of the 1960s, which prohibit discrimination on the basis of
sex. These laws guarantee women equal rights, and if the problem continues to exist it is because of a lack
of enforcement, not a lack of legislation.

The ERA is not only unnecessary in the opinion of many people, as can be seen in its failure to
be ratified in the seven years allotted, but it was also given a very questionable extension. Sam Ervin, a former
Democratic senator from North Carolina, stated that the extension of the time limit was “a perversion of the amendatory process
as established by the Constitution.” The Constitution only allows for the submission of a constitutional proposal to the states one
time. The Supreme Court of the United States said in Dillon v. Gloss (1921) that Congress has no power to
extend the deadline of a constitutional amendment. In this decision, the Court also stated that a constitutional amendment must be
ratified within a reasonable amount of time after its proposal. The seven-year time limit imposed on ratification of the ERA
was decided to be a reasonable amount of time. The extension of this period is in direct conflict with this
Supreme Court decision.

In defense of his arguments, Sam Ervin points out that the states which ratified ERA before its extension, “ratified an
amendment which was to become effective within seven years after its original ratification; they didn’t ratify an amendment which was
to become effective later than that.” The states which ratified the amendment before the original deadline technically ratified a different
amendment than the one which has been considered in state legislative bodies since that deadline. According to this philosophy, the
ERA as originally proposed has failed. If its proponents wish to continue their fight, they should be forced to start
all over.

Senator Ervin also said that in his opinion “a state which has ratified can rescind at any time before an
amendment is adopted.” The Supreme Court, in the “Coleman Case,” recently disagreed with the Senator. In this case, they ruled
that rescission was up to Congress, not up to the states. In doing this, the Court ignored five or six
previous decisions in which they said rescission was a judiciary question, not a political question for Congress. Senator Ervin described
this case as “the most perfect example of judicial schizophrenia in the history of the Supreme Court.” It seems that
questionable decisions are all that have kept the Equal Rights Amendment alive. Is the Equal Rights Amendment important enough to
break the laws set forth in the Constitution?

The Equal Rights Amendment, if passed, will have effects on our society which many do not expect. Many opponents like
to point to the ideas of unisex bathrooms and homosexual marriages, but these are very unlikely. The more obvious and
very possible changes are almost as shocking though. One of the most questionable is the idea of women in combat.
“You presumably have women loading 75-pound shells into artillery guns,” says Professor Jules Gerrard of Washington University. Proponents of the
ERA say that this idea is completely unfounded, and that just as women were exempted from the registration for the
draft, they will be exempted from forced military service. This exemption would be a blatant example of classification by sex
and discrimination on the basis of sex, and therefore should be against the law as stated in the Equal Rights
Amendment.

Another area which would be affected by the passage of the ERA is our educational system. All publicly funded single-sex
educational institutions will become illegal. Many privately funded institutions of this type that receive any federal support would be subject
to a possible cut-off of federal money. In other words, passage of the ERA would give the federal government greater
control of our educational system and more power over the private sector than it already has. Ratification will also raise
questions as to the legality of such institutions as the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts, private men’s clubs such as
the Rotary Club and the Kiwanis Club, private lady’s clubs such as the Junior League and the Daughters of the
American Revolution, and many other institutions of this nature. It may not put an end to these organizations, but they
are all, beyond a shadow of a doubt, discriminatory on the basis of sex. Equal rights for women is a
relatively recentPhenomenon in the history of relations between the sexes. Before these ideas were introduced, women were generally satisfied with
staying at home, taking care of the house, and raising their children. This is by no means the demeaning job
which many now claim it to be; on the contrary, it is one of the most honorable endeavors which could
possibly be undertaken. What would be more honorable and more self-satisfying than raising one’s children properly and watching them grow
up to become good, moral, hard-working individuals?

“Why would a lady want to step off her pedestal and become equal to, no longer superior to, men?” This
is a question asked by one homemaker who is a strong opponent of the Equal Rights Amendment. She says a
lot about women in this question. Women are leaving a job which no man can handle properly and going into
fields in which they are capable of competing with men. Why would they do this? I believe that as we
see more and more children following paths which lead to drugs, crime, and sloth, women are becoming fearful of failure
in this difficult task. I believe that it is this fear which has driven them out of the home and
into the role of the liberated woman. And it is these women that initiated and support the Equal Rights Amendment.

Charles Douglas is a junior economics major from Winston-Salem, North Carolina. He's a member of Kappa Alpha and the College
Republicans. Members of Davidson’s NOW (National Organization of Women) have deferred an invitation to respond to this article until spring
term.

In her editorial last week, Elizabeth Kiss remarked on the opportunity the new Commons presented us to exercise some creative
potential and bemoaned the apparent decision to simply move ARA/Slater out of Richard and Bailey and into the new building.
This decision, incidentally, is worth not only bemoaning, but also regretting, mourning, and rending one’s clothes, or even rending Lisa
Robinson’s clothes, however you best express dismay. Not that Slater doesn’t have some creative potential of its own—anybody who can
borrow construction materials from next door and pass them off as casserole has my vote for Most Creative, not to
mention Most Disgusting. I remember the girl working there last year, who, when lumping the stuff on everyone’s plate and
handing it to them, would look reassuringly into each one’s eyes and softly say, “I’m sorry. Really, it isn’t my
fault.”

Just how aware are students of the food service plans being made for the new Commons? To find out, I
asked a few campus notables.

Elaine R. Addabead: “Well, I’ve never really been in favor of the Commons. I mean, what are you going to
call those people anyway? Everybody knows that people at F&M are ‘F&M’ers’, and that people at Phi Delt are ‘Phi
Delts’, but what about people at the Commons—‘commoners’? It is kind of cute but, I mean, really, it’s a big
problem...”

Bo Heme: “What Commons?”

Samuel Aragon Elitigation, III: “Maybe if everybody’s Dad kicked in enough money, we could have a Beach Party there! If
it’s nice enough, maybe Annette Funicello would come! Maybe we could give out little plastic seashells and...” (At this point,
Sam had to lean over to tie his deck boots and lost his train of thought.)

Our ignorance of plans for the Commons could cause us to pass up opportunities which will not present themselves again.
How many members of the student body are aware that the SGA passed a resolution, unanimously, against establishing ARA/Slater in
the new Commons? Not many. In fact, the case for a college-run food service has not been put forth by
anyone of whom I’m aware. In some ways, this is strange as it is a very convincing case. Could we
not provide more work/study financial aid if we controlled jobs related to the Commons? Princeton University has relied on such
a system for years. Only cooks are completely necessary—bussing, serving, and cleaning up are jobs that could benefit Davidson students
who need work/study but can’t get it. A college-run food service would be more responsive to the students. Slater is
here to make a profit. I have heard it argued that Slater is necessary because it can cut corners by
means the college can’t employ. If anyone wants to know exactly where those corners are being cut, all he has
to do is remember the Bulgarian Goulash of his freshman year. Ever wonder where you'd seen those chunks of beef
before? That’s right, they were in the chicken casserole the night before. And where before that? Yep, in the beef
stroganoff the night before that. Any institution that has to water its days-old cake with a plant mister to keep
it moist, needs to be cutting costs elsewhere. All the College has to do is break even.

An administration official once remarked to me that the College wished to avoid the cloud of complaints that seems to
follow the freshman food service, implying that Slater was the preferred object of student revilement. While such a posture will
avoid a lot of mud-slinging, it will get good food for neither freshmen nor independents, a group which is expected
to increase in number. Meanwhile, Slater has offered a scrumptious new package deal to be (gasp!) unlimited entrees. Great. It’s
not unlike having unlimited buffalo chips.

Mike Mason is here, somewhere.

The Davidsonian welcomes columns on any subject. We reserve the right to edit for clarity, length, and accuracy. Call Opinions
Editor James Barrat (-6257) if interested. Columns do not necessarily represent the views of Davidsonian editors or staff.
