8—The Davidsonian—February 13, 1981

Nix Flix

Several years ago my worst fears concerning the nature of American post-graduate education were partially reinforced when I came across
a Ph.D. thesis on the James Bond film and novel as a coherent body of work. This presented a lucid
case for 007 as an archetypical crusading Christian hero rescuing damsels in distress from a series of Satanic adversaries. Well,
personally I'd always viewed James as a violent paid killer smoking, drinking, and whoring his way through the international fleshpots
on the basis of nothing more substantial than a loose holster, an over-developed ego, and a few fast one-liners. Just
how good he is at this specialized form of activity can be seen in Love on Friday night at 8
and 10:30 when Pop Films show The Spy Who Loved Me, the third of Roger Moore's excursions as Britain's No.
1 secret agent, and probably his best so far. Even aficionados of Mr. Sean Connery will concede that this is
a stylish movie as James heroically and singlehandedly battles with a metal-dentured villain called Jaws, puts the sparkle back in
Barbara Bach’s eyes, wreaks sophisticated havoc around the world, and saves the West for democracy. And that’s just before breakfast.

Altogether a different matter is next week’s Fine Film Midnight Cowboy starring Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman (Feb. 18, 8
p.m., Love Aud.). Hailed in its day for its trenchant social realism and honest depiction of seamy life in the
urban underground, it evidently struck some kind of chord in most people’s minds at the beginning of the seventies: now
it tends to look merely tatty, slightly self-conscious, as sad as its protagonists. Voight is the pretty Texan naif intent
upon making it as a stud in the big city: Hoffman the shabby small-time crook who befriends him as he
discovers that the streets of New York are paved with almost anything except gold. As their relationship grows and their
pathetic dreams are in turn shattered, a quite genuine humanity based upon mutual need arises between these two initially unsympathetic
characters. Steering some kind of a middle course between sheer disgust and maudlin wallowing, Hoffman injects some genuine comedy into
the proceedings, albeit of a fairly black nature. Best of all is his rebarbative exchange with a passing motorist upon
the latter’s incursion into “his” (Hoffman’s) space while crossing the road. However, the relentless stripping away of the illusions of
the local-boy-makes-good variety of the Great American Dream continues and these two hopeless losers—commanding by now our sympathy if not
our respect—attempt to cut out with their own portion of the Big Apple. Their final, doomed journey to Florida achieves
genuine pathos and the ending is a choker. See it.

As this is the last film column of the Winter Term I have to take the chance now of talking
about some of the other films shown between now and the Spring break. Most notable of these is Michael Cimino’s
1978 opus The Deer Hunter which the Pop Films committee will present on Saturday, Feb. 21, in Love. Presumably in
a last bid to convince you that the prospect of impending examinations should be concentrating your mind wonderfully. I can
only ascribe the extraordinary success of this film to the fact that the Great American Public evidently prefers its national
traumas remythologized into melodrama rather than into film which aspires, however wrongly, to the condition of Art—as in Coppola’s Apocalypse
Now. If ever there were a film which takes one basic, powerful idea (“One bullet... one shot”) and turns it
into a three-hour bludgeoning of the senses failing either to edify or to inform, then this—alas—is it. On the plus
side, de Niro is a talented actor here given full rein to his abilities and some of the scenes—particularly the
withdrawal from Saigon—are excellent. Too often however the film eschews tension and suspense for simple inflammatory violence, a technique which
if anything weakens the power of the historically accurate Russian Roulette games. I confess that the final, fatuous singing of
God Bless America has always absolutely baffled me. One only has to compare Coppola’s masterpiece and Kurtz’ final, agonized invocation
of destruction upon his forces to see its hollowness. Perhaps patriotism is also the last refuge of inferior film-makers. Go
along and decide for yourselves, exams will still be a full weekend away.

Nick Graham.

GET-A-WAY
Sit all day and come home to cuddle up by the fireplace in secluded hideaways... in the Great Smokies.
Thirty dollars for two; $35 for four nightly.
Mountain Brook Cottages
Rt. 1 Box 301, Sylva, NC
phone 704/586-4329

DEAR PREPS,
I have a beautiful girlfriend from an infamous girls’ school in South Carolina. She comes to Davidson three weekends a
month. The problem is that every time she comes her add-a-

Love Letters entertains with finality
By TIM BETHEA
Staff Writer

Arnold Wesker’s Love Letters on Blue Paper is the last of this season’s Workshop performances, and it signals a “last
chance” in more than one way. First, the action of the play revolves around the possibly fatal illness of Victor
Marsden, one of the characters. Victor’s imminent death affects his wife Sonia and his close friend Maurice Stapleton. The overriding
concern of these characters is trying to understand the meaning in life and death. This play is provocative and emotionally
moving. The author seems to challenge the certainty of life after death. If the play offers no solution to the
uncertainty it raises, at least it brings some clarity to the crisis. Clearly, we are always in the “last chance”
situation. Any moment might possibly be our last. Likewise, any day, any week, month or year might be the last
ofOur living time. The problem is making that time count. Before we can understand how to give our lives meaning,
we must recognize the limitations of our existences. Love Letters reminds us of the short time interval which separates the
quick from the dead. Love Letters also allows us to see two human concerns at play: the need for survival,
and the need for emancipation from pain. Victor wants to survive and go on living, and even in the event
of his death, Sonia and Maurice must go on living. The survivors must be able to bury the dead and
press on. Victor looks for some assurance—of an afterlife, of “a self-awareness unconfined by physical existence,” but finds none. It
is harrowingly simple to substitute ourselves in the place of Victor, and wonder: “How do I live? How can I
be after death?” These characters appear to be left with only the act of living for assurance. They can only
celebrate life and cherish the joy they find in each other. That is all. Love Letters indicates that we can
celebrate ourselves through our human relationships, without any need for despair. It is Sonia, “like a frustrated messenger from God,”
who tells Victor that he has done a good job; he has given her life meaning.

Secondly, this week’s production also signals the last chance to see a Workshop play this year. These plays mean more
than passing time and gaining course credits. They represent communal acts of celebration. As an audience, we participate in these
plays and have our parts to perform. Most of us no longer have the distinction of standing as groundlings, cracking
nuts with our teeth and hollering at the performers, but our elevation to the seated tiers has not canceled our
roles. We go to see and be with the actors. Our curiosity about ourselves, about our survival and our emancipation
brings us into the theater. We celebrate ourselves by being there, by sharing the play experience together.

Love Letters on Blue Paper has received acclamatory reviews since it first appeared as a short story. Wesker then adapted
the story as a movie for television (BBC), and finally wrote the play version in 1977. Love Letters was produced
by the Folger Theatre in Washington last year to sell-out crowds. Though Wesker is not widely known in the United
States, he is among the top contemporary British playwrights in England, according to Drama Professor Rupert Barber. Senior Mark Halton,
director of the play, believes this performance in the Workshop may be the first amateur presentation of this play in
the country. The actors for Love Letters are Seniors Sheri Gravett and James Baskin, and Sophomore James Funsten. The show
will be presented tonight and tomorrow night at 7 p.m. in the Workshop of the Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Tickets
may be reserved at the box office from 2 to 5 p.m. or bought at the door before curtain. General
admission is $1.

Davidson preps make clothes connection
By THE PREPS Staff Correspondents

A national resurgence of the traditional or “preppy” style of clothing has prompted a ready market for such exploitative guides
as The Official Preppy Handbook and the National Lampoon’s Are You a Preppie poster. How this trend is reflected in
Davidson's social metropolis is the subject of inquiry and advice offered this week by THE PREPS.

Traditionally conservative, Davidson’s fashions have always reflected the values and tastes of its students. However, our prep community, like many
other small and academically prestigious college communities (e.g. Williams, Amherst, Haverford), has been forced to admit a student body selected
from a wide variety of social and economic backgrounds. Although prevalent, the prep is a slowly dying and already diluted
species at Davidson. But hark, the preppy revival hits, and suddenly Davidson's dwindling preppy is still the subject of student
questions and comments. The following letters represent only a fraction of the number we have already received.

Bead chain has several more beads on it. I’ve heard some strange stories about this aspect of add-a-beads. What do
you think?
BUGGERED IN BELK ’84

DEAR BUGGER,
I’m afraid your fears are realistic. Add-a-bead chains are highly symbolic. Most girls will admit they add beads to their
chains in a logical fashion. Although these systems vary slightly, our intensive research has revealed a key rule of thumb:
the fewer beads the better! The add-a-bead is a phenomenon steeped in tradition and history, dating back to ancient Rome.
Messalina, wife of the senescent emperor Claudius, was an avid add-a-bead collector. Her chain was undisputably the largest in town.
All attempts to surpass Messalina's magnificent collection were futile (often fatal). History’s most ambitious add-a-bead enthusiast, however, was Catherine the
Great. Her collection seemed to multiply like bunnies. In fact, most Humes students already know that Catherine’s insatiable penchant for
add-a-beads by the dozen probably caused her death. Bugger, before sentencing your girlfriend take a good look at her beads.
Are they all gold? Does she wear a variety of brown cat’s eye beads? If so, avoid her like the
plague. These girls are generally contagious. They are usually basketball groupies and all have been snaked by the Tank. OUR
ADVICE: Keep this tuna under wraps for all but the biggest of weekends. In the meantime, date a nice coed
with a plain gold chain.

THE PREPS

DEAR PREPS,
I am a freshman Cosmetics major from Queens. I’m really peeved at you Davidson Boys. (See Prep, page 10)
