Campus Events

Thursday, March 19

7:30 pm Philosophy Professor Stell discusses "Anarchism and Democracy."

9:30 pm Hammer dulcimer concert with Malcolm Dalglish and Greg Larsen. $1 at the door.

Friday, March 20

12:30 pm Open Luncheon. Literary critic Kenneth Burke will speak on "Two Eschatologies."

7 pm "Philosophy of Literary Form," a lecture by Kenneth Burke. Morrison Room.

8:15 pm Women’s Chorus Tour Concert. 900 Room.

8 & 10:30 pm Pop Film: The Black Stallion. $1.50 or season pass.

9 pm Band party with "Blue Condition." Love.

Saturday, March 21

Y Student Service Corps Lasagna Dinner. Please contact John Spangler, Cathi Dumas, Gordon Turnbull, Mark Murrey, or Kim McAllister by
noon Friday if you're coming. It’s free. Fiji House.

Monday, March 23

6 pm Center for Special Studies.

7:30 pm Dr. William Bennett, Director of the National Humanities Center of the Research Triangle, presents "Democracy: Some Positive Signs."
Former Mecklenburg County Commission Chairman Liz Hair and U.S. District Judge James B. McMillan will join in discussions after Dr.
Bennett’s speech. 900 Room.

8:15 pm Guest Recital: Robert Weirich, pianist. Gallery.

Tuesday, March 24

7 pm "Impromptu," a one-act play by Tad Mosel. Perkins.

7:30 pm Philosophy Professor Marx Wartofsky of Boston University presents "The Politics of Illusion and the Illusion of Politics: Dangers
to Democracy." Discussion will follow, led by North Carolina appellate Defender Adam Stein and attorney George Daly. Morrison Room.

Wednesday, March 25

10 am Coffee and Cokes. 900 Room.

3 pm Freshman/Sophomore Life/Work Planning Workshop. Love.

7 pm "Impromptu," Tad Mosel’s one-act play. Perkins.

8 pm Fine Film: East of Eden. $1.50 or season pass. Gallery.

Sports

Friday, March 20

2 pm Women’s Tennis: Mars Hill. Home.

2 pm Tennis: East Stroudsburg. Home.

Saturday, March 21

1 pm Women’s Tennis: UNC-Asheville. Home.

1 pm Women’s Track and Field: Appalachian. Away.

2 pm Tennis: Washington and Lee. Home.

2 pm Baseball: VMI (2 games). Away.

Men’s Track: Appalachian. Away.

Sailing Regatta: UVA. Away.

Monday, March 23

1 pm Baseball: Marshall (2 games). Home.

1 pm Women’s Tennis: UNC-Charlotte. Charlotte.

2 pm Tennis: Amherst. Home.

Tuesday, March 24

1 pm Baseball: West Virginia State. Home.

2 pm Men’s Track: Wingate and High Point. Away.

2 pm Women’s Tennis: High Point. Away.

Women’s Track and Field: J. C. Smith. Away.

Tennis: MIT. Home.

The Back Page

Dalglish, Larsen create musical fantasies

"Inside Dalglish are springs and streams with fish flashing... Inside Larsen are the sidelong glances of the sun in late
afternoon... When the two play together the world they create is a fantasy."

These enthusiastic words of critic Ruth Seligman describe Malcolm Dalglish and Greg Larsen, the superb duo who will give a
hammer dulcimer concert in the 900 Room tonight at 9:30.

Dalglish makes his own dulcimers. The dulcimer, a resonant, stringed box, is believed to be one of the oldest stringed
instruments known.

Larsen plays a variety of instruments, including piano, guitar, fiddle, wooden flute, and Anglo concertina.

The two have appealed to enthusiastic audiences in London, Belgium, Ireland, and Scotland, as well as appreciative crowds around the
U.S.

The duo will play traditional Irish, English, and American tunes with unique instruments.

Burke talks on Burkology

Kenneth Burke, who at 83 is the only remaining founder of the New Criticism in American literature, will visit Davidson
next week.

As early as 1941, W.H. Auden called Burke "unquestionably the most brilliant and suggestive critic now writing in America." William
Carlos Williams praised Burke in a poem.

In addition to his work in literary criticism, Burke has published a novel, numerous stories and poems, and a number
of books, including Language as Symbolic Action and Attitudes toward History. The idiosyncrasies of some of his work have earned
it the classification of "Burkology."

Burke will speak about "Two Eschatologies" at the Open Luncheon Wednesday at 12:30 in the 900 Room. Then at 7
that night he will discuss "The Philosophy of Literary Form" at the Center for Special Studies.

Pianist Weirich performs Debussy, Copland Monday

Pianist Robert Weirich will give a guest recital at 8:15, March 23 in Hodson Hall. The program includes works of
Beethoven, Debussy, and Copland.

Trained at the Oberlin Conservatory and Yale University School of Music, Weirich has performed throughout the United States and Canada.
His talent has carried him to the White House twice, most recently as a winner of the Kennedy Center/Rockefeller Foundation
International Competition.

Following two years as artist-professor at Tulane University, Weirich is presently esteemed as the youngest pianist ever appointed to the
Northwestern University Faculty. His performance is free.

Tom Wolfe to judge competition

If you’re feeling especially creative lately, the English department wants to know about it. Each year the department sponsors two
creative writing competitions.

The Vereen Bell award, named after the author and Davidson alumnus, is open to all upperclassmen. It offers a $60
first prize, a $40 second prize, and a $20 third prize. Entries will be judged by Tom Wolfe, this year’s
Convocation speaker. Wolfe is the author of The Right Stuff, The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test, and The Printed Word.

The R. Windley Hall award for freshmen only, offers a $40 first prize and a $20 second prize. Members of
the English department will judge the entries.

Entries may be fiction, drama, poetry, or essay. Submit as many entries in as many categories as your creative urge
allows. Poems should be submitted in groups.

All entries should be typed, double spaced, on one side of each page; names must be concealed in an attached
envelope bearing the title of the entry.

Submit your work to any member of the English department by 5 p.m. on Monday, April 6.

Edited by Ivy Goodman
