Soccer Daddy
Paternalistic Davidson gives VMI & Presbyterian a lesson

I’m pushed for time so I’m letting my little brother write the opening this week.

‘Fathers are good. They help children grow with guidance. When children are bad, fathers turn mean and punish them to let them know they are not doing right. Other times fathers are nice and teach children fun things.’

Sorry about that. Luckily I got back before he ruined the entire article. He does have a point though. Why not apply it to the soccer team this week? I’ve done just about everything else.

In the match against VMI Saturday, the Keydets were naughty and were spanked fatherly by Davidson, which booted in three goals. Maybe they were just excited to be away from school and could not quell their enthusiasm, but four were removed from the match for flagrancy. By this time Hall Barnett, Chris Roberts, and freshman Steve Bernhardt had already scored, so Davidson just relaxed and played 11 on 7. Todd Lambert also had two assists.

Wednesday’s Match

After punishing the boys from VMI, Davidson felt guilty and gave Presbyterian a soccer lesson, 3-1. In the first half Lambert and Price scored two textbook goals, so the team slowed and began instruction. The second half featured the second stringers, who worked with Presbyterian by showing them how to score and then watching them score on Greek with a beautiful play. Their goalkeeper admitted after the game that he had a good time and hoped to do it again sometime.

The game was especially important because it offered playing time to many players who have waited patiently all year and also gave Slagle and the fans a preview of next season’s talent.

Saturday the Cats (11-7) face Pembroke, but more importantly they meet Furman at home on Monday. This match will decide the second place team in the Southern Conference. The match against Furman is always a struggle, so please come and witness the soccer team’s best season get better.

By Mark Elmore '82.

Athlete of the Week

Todd Lambert

Lambert, a junior from Piscataway, New Jersey, played a key role in each of the games which have become the soccer team’s three-game win streak. In the 3-1 win over UNCC he had two goals, against VMI he dished out two assists, and in the...

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 October 1981

Mike Wnbiciew gets slide-tackled here, but the Keydets did most of the falling as they fell to the Davidson booters 3-1.