Elizabeth Smiley.
053 10340434959
or 70566100.
Take your pick.

What happens when people are digitized?

LAST THURSDAY MORNING A GLANCE INTO MY usually-empty mailbox rewarded me with the thin shadow of a single, processed piece
of "junk mail," presumably another Time-Life bookbag offer designed especially to fill up the large wastebaskets near the post office
exits. A second look, however, revealed that this was no ordinary sample of junk mail, but my new "std Code"
postal designation. Addressed to me, the "Postal Customer," the announcement drew my most unlikely responses of fear and anger—emotions which
continued to resolve themselves into a contemplation of the more controversial and maybe overworked concept of social depersonalization in the
U.S. Has it hit Davidson, NC? With all due respect to the postal workers across the street (who are really
nice guys), the unsuspecting instigators of my criticisms, I wish to address this danger, depersonalization as it affects us here,
exploring more than anything, my own reaction to Thursday’s news.

It is difficult to imagine that our society will ever experience systematization of, for example, Huxleyan proportions; enough impassioned humanists—and
Iredell Counties—to elicit our essentially human reaction against the dehumanization of social behavior. At the same time, it is naive
to assume that we are any longer a society built on the identification of the individual. We have relinquished instead
all sense of personal identity in favor of numerical compilation.

053 10340434959: to my employers and the federal government I am 261190770; when I step into Cashion’s I become 70566100
and 892-6038; in fact—and this is to carry my illustration to its extreme—I am even physically circumscribed in numerical combinations
like 67, 130, 352536. Well, almost. My mailing address is on lists for Random House books, "Good Housekeeping Sweepstakes," L.L.
Bean, and countless other order catalogs which I don’t remember ordering, but which supply me periodically with countless opportunities to
subscribe. I am, in short, something like a paint-by-number image connected by computer banks across the nation—but a faceless image
distinguished by my placement on endless lists of account numbers. How then am I to react when the U.S. Postal
Service assigns me yet another set of numerals to add to my resumé? My fragmented personality cries out for relief.

The advent of the Prime computers at Davidson has hurled us farther into the world of high technology. We now
possess machinery to assist us not only in the areas of administrative function but of academic pursuit as well. I
want to state that I can both understand and appreciate the benefits that a large portion of the college population
will derive from the availability of the Prime. The objectives of these technological advancements for production are increased efficiency, reduction
of cost, and elimination of human error. Yet I question how many of the processes that make Davidson education and
community life individual will be eventually incorporated into the network of computerized economy. Larger universities (e.g., UNC-C, Vanderbilt, UGA) have
already found it necessary to design applications for admission of utmost simplicity that can be processed quickly and in mass
quantities. We Davidsonians are still awarded personal and conscientious consideration in many stages of our matriculation, including admission, course selection,
major selection, and graduation.

In addition, we are privileged to benefit from a liberal arts training with foci on the history of human emotional
and intellectual development as well as on the application of technological skill to contemporary society. It seems that with our
extensive educational background we ought to be that much more aware of the imposing threats to the individual in American
society through absorption into mass technology in the name of efficiency.

For now, our minor postal change is perhaps too insignificant to cause alarm. And yet how many minor insignificant changes
must accumulate unattended before the problem of depersonalization—even in Davidson—becomes too large to ignore? Does the Davidson student face numerical
definition and the subsequent loss of individual identification? Finally, how long will it be before we allow high technology to
exploit the personal privileges that we now enjoy? Questions, perhaps, without ready answers. But as for me—well, I’m certainly going
to add my voice to the outcry.
