February 6, 1981—The Davidsonian—7

Stand at 9-10, 7-3

Deliberate Bulldog offense results in win as Wildcats lose another SC game

By STEVE SOUD
Staff Writer

Some days you can’t shoot. Some days you can’t rebound. Some days you can’t play defense. Some days you can’t
play offense. And then, about once a season, there is the day when you just can’t do anything—like last Wednesday.
Nothing went right for the Wildcats, and a very opportunistic Citadel team took it to an inept Davidson team to
win, 72-58. It was the Citadel’s fifth straight win over the Cats.

Few will deny that Davidson, being upset for the first time this season, was at its worst against the Citadel.
“We weren't mentally prepared,” Coach Carl Clayton said to explain the team’s anemic 38.7% field goal shooting. Senior Todd Haynes
agreed and added, “We expected to win.”

Expectations were problem number one. The team expected a cakewalk through The Citadel en route to victory number ten. But
there is absolutely no basis for the prevailing attitude that the Citadel ball club is a pushover. The Bulldogs lost
by one point in the last ten seconds against UT-Chattanooga. They lost by a basket to Furman, and beat Western
Carolina by the same margin.

The second problem cropped up the day before the game, when sophomore point guard John Carroll sprained his ankle in
practice. Granted that backup guards Tom McConnell and Tom Franz can bring the ball upcourt and pass well, but Carroll
does so much more for the offense and defense. “John Carroll directs our offense best,” Coach Eddie Biedenbach said. “He
understands it, and he has the experience factor over McConnell and Franz.” Gone was the team’s offensive coordinator, and a
player who defends the opposition’s playmakers as well as anyone in the league.

Problem number three occurred a couple of days before the game, when 6’ 9” center Jamie Hall explained to Biedenbach
that he had to attend class instead of going on the road with the team. Hall walked into the locker
room about twenty minutes before game time, and consequently had only ten minutes to warm up. It’s hard for anyone,
especially Hall, to play under those conditions. In fact, Biedenbach felt that Carroll’s injury and Hall’s absence contributed to the
team’s poor mental attitude.

Problem number four was the officiating, as the referees performed more and greater feats of visual inaccuracy. On two similar
plays at opposite ends of the court, a Davidson player would get called for the foul, a Bulldog wouldn’t. A
lot of those “fouls” were purely judgmental calls, but when the Citadel was assessed for only 10 fouls in forty
minutes of basketball, one can safely say that something has gone wrong.

The Wildcats’ fifth problem was the Citadel. “The Citadel caused us to play the way we did,” Biedenbach said. The
Bulldogs packed in a tight 2-3 zone that denied the ball from a motionless offense. Biedenbach again complained that his
offense wasn’t moving, saying “When you're not moving you're not taking good shots. You're in front of the defense. You
just don’t lunge at the boards.”

With twelve minutes left in the first half, a 10-8 lead and the ball, the 'Dogs spread into a four-corner
offense. Haynes noted, “By delaying it, they cut it to a 20-minute game,” and the 'Cats didn’t have much of
a chance after that. The spread offense by the Citadel didn’t exactly spring Davidson out of the shooting doldrums either.
“When we get behind in a 2-3 zone, we'd like to put in our shooters, but they controlled the ball
on offense, and our players became preoccupied with defense. When back on offense, we weren't prepared,” explained Biedenbach.

“The Citadel is a more disciplined team than we will ever be, by nature of the student that goes there,”
he continued. The discipline of the Bulldogs helped them to slow the pace down, and they took few bad shots
to put them at a 52.1% field goal clip for the game. The control also enabled them to out-rebound the
’Cats 44-34 for the game, 28-17 off the Wildcats’ offensive boards.

With the Conference race heating up, Davidson can't afford to lose any more games. “We can’t take anyone in our
league lightly,” said Biedenbach.

Rifle team guns down conference opponents

By JIM CROWE
Sports Editor

The Wildcat Rifle team got off to a quick start in December with its first-ever victory in the Western Carolina
Conference match. The team’s season record stands at 12-5. Being in two conferences gives the squad more exposure to competition.
Davidson riflers shoot in the Southern Conference as well as the Western Carolina Conference (WCC), a league composed of regional
rifle schools. In the WCC, Davidson's record of 7-0 gives it a good chance to win the conference title this
year. However, team captain Pat Stuart said, “Our chances were really good for winning the WCC. But our leading shooter,
George Hatfield, left school, so it’s going to be tough.” Stuart said he does feel that the team will improve
on its third-place finish in the conference last year. “We’ve still got a good shot at the championship if some
of the freshmen come around.”Last weekend, the team faced a tough N.C. State squad. Davidson shot one of its better
scores of the year (1550) but was overwhelmed by the N.C. State team whose individual scores average in the mid-500s.
Craig Rice led Davidson with a 530; Pat Stuart followed with a 522. George Webster (520), Jim Mashburn (504), and
Steve Lawrence (496) also shot well.

Two weekends ago, Davidson shot against Marshall, UT-Chattanooga, and East Tennessee State, the number two-ranked rifle team in the nation.
The scholarship-laden ETSU team beat all comers. Davidson’s four-man score of 1998 left them in third place, just behind UT-Chattanooga
but ahead of Marshall. Stuart said, “George Webster has really been a surprise lately. He’s shooting better than ever. And
Craig Rice, who was away last year, is shooting pretty well.”

Sophomore Doug Austin placed well in a match against VMI on January 17. Though the team did lose to VMI,
it put forth one of its best scoring efforts. Other members of the team are sophomore Elizabeth Brazell and freshmen
Jeff Tilbury, Chuck Stevenson, and Jeff Knudson. Obviously a young team, the riflers are gaining important experience this year while
still shooting well against stiff competition. The team is advised by the ROTC department and coached by Sergeant Ransom Cooper.
Davidson will compete in an important WCC match this weekend.

That statement holds particularly true with three essential road games next on the schedule. Within a one-week span, the team
travels to UT-Chattanooga, VMI, and Furman, and winning two of those three games could bring Davidson its first Southern Conference
crown since the early '70s. That is easier said than done, however. Since Biedenbach has been coaching at Davidson, his
teams have won only three games on the road. This season, only about 20% of the Southern Conference games have
been won away from home. If the team should go on and lose the remainder of its games, fans would
be satisfied. The team ranks second in the NCAA in free throw percentage (76.7%), and with a record of 9-10
has already surpassed last year’s team in the win column. But the team is still the conference leader with an
excellent chance of taking it all. If the team can win a pair of road games, they can claim a
conference championship.

Lady cagers lose two on the road, stand at 1-13
By DEBBY CARLTON
Staff Writer

Furman and UNC-Greensboro handed the Davidson women’s team a pair of losses to send the team record to 1-13. Despite
poor team performance, the Cats have demonstrated some stunning individual play. Sophomores Mike Frankhouser and Jeanne Womack are presently leading
the North Carolina Division III women’s league in rebounding, with Carol Heppner also among the top ten. Frankhouser is the
high scorer in the state with an average of 17 points per game.

The Furman Paladins, coached by former Davidson coach Susie Roberts, defeated the Cats 75-46 in an emotionally packed game last
Wednesday in Greenville. Roberts took over as head basketball coach this year. Captain Kirby Owen said, “We were looking forward
to playing our former coach. We hoped that we would play well against them.” Frankhouser led the scoring with 18
points followed by Womack with 12. All five Davidson starters were coached by Roberts last year. The Cats committed only
18 turnovers, a marked improvement in this troublesome area. Field goal percentage was low, 27.8%, with the free throw percentage
slightly better at 41.4%. The Cats pulled down 46 rebounds during the contest. In comparison, Furman shot 44% from the
floor and an enviable 90% from the line, while grabbing 50 rebounds.

The Cats were unable to repeat their fine home performance against UNC-G earlier this season as they lost 72-59 Monday
in Greensboro. The home-court advantage was evident as the red-hot Lady Spartans shot 47% from the field and 60% from
the line. High scorer for Davidson was Mike Frankhouser with 18, followed by Jeanne Womack with 12, Carol Heppner with
11, and Kirby Owen with 10. This was one of the few games where scoring was well distributed. Coach Dee
Mays said, “At times I see really outstanding play by the team but we are not consistent enough.” Field goal
percentage was stronger, 35%, and free throws were notably high at 64%.

The second half of the UNC-G game showed impressive play, especially from Jeanne Womack. As Davidson's inside game was revitalized
by a spurt of good play. The Cats were down by 17 at the half and were able to cut
the deficit to 11 before succumbing to the Lady Spartan’s outside shooting. The next five games are important in that
they are all conference games. If the Cats can win some of the next few games, they could enter the
State Tournament in better shape. Even if wins continue to elude them, Coach Mays feels confident that her team will
enter the State Tournament mentally and physically prepared for a tough fight. As captain Kirby Owen says, “Our most important
goal now is to play well in our next five games against conference foes.”
