THE DAVIDSONIAN
In Veritate Magna Vis
Volume LXX, Number 23
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina
May 1, 1981

Former Senator Birch Bayh jokes with Union Speakers Committee Chairman Sherman Allen. For an article on Bayh’s speech, see p.
8.

Proposal for women’s athletic scholarships aired
By FRANCES PALMER
Asst. News Editor

A group of women athletes has drawn up a proposal recommending that the College hire an assistant athletic director of
women’s athletics, grant scholarships for women’s basketball, and consider upgrading present club teams to the varsity level. Senior Kirby Owen,
who organized the group, said they presented their proposals to the President’s Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics on April 13.
The Council met Tuesday morning to discuss the recommendations.

Council Chairman David Shi said the Council’s reactions to the group were “favorable to both their concerns and their specific
recommendations.” Almost all of the proposals were received “sympathetically,” Shi added. Owen, who is also a member of the council,
said, however, that the council has not yet decided what recommendations, if any, they will make to College President Samuel
Spencer. They are “still in the first stage” of reviewing the proposals, she said. The council hopes to present their
views to College President Samuel Spencer early next week. Spencer will present his own recommendations to the Board of Trustees
next Thursday.

Athletic Director Gene Bingham, who attended the April 13 meeting, is in favor of initiating a scholarship program for women’s
basketball. Bingham’s tentative plan is to award funds for one full basketball scholarship in the 1981-82 school year. The group
recommended that the funds be divided at the coach’s discretion among several players. The group strongly urged the College to
begin offering women’s athletic scholarships. “It is obvious that the program at its present level cannot be competitive.” Scholarships would
change the basketball team’s status from Division III to Division II, so that all five of the College’s women’s teams
would compete in Division II.

Shi said the council has not yet decided whether or not to recommend hiring a new assistant athletic director for
women’s athletics. They question if the College could “accomplish the same objectives without creating another administrative position.” He feels there
is “not enough to do to warrant (hiring) someone only for that.” Owen, however, thinks that hiring an assistant athletic
director for women’s athletics is important for the future of the program. In addition to overseeing the entire women’s program,
the new director could work with Physical Education and Intramural Director Sterling Martin and Assistant Athletic (See page 10)

KA, BSC meet
Photograph by Mark Conner

Maydole petitions
Ratio comes under fire
By LISA DRAINE
Staff Writer

“We, the undersigned, ask the Board of Trustees to adopt the following motion: That the Board of Trustees adopt an
admissions policy based on merit which does not discriminate on the basis of sex.” Philosophy Professor Robert Maydole will present
this petition to the faculty at their meeting next Tuesday. Fifty-five of the College’s 100 faculty members have already signed
the petition. Under the Constitution of the College, the faculty may with a majority vote petition the Board of Trustees
for direct action. Maydole hopes the Trustees will consider the petition at their meeting next week.

The Trustees established a 2 to 1 male/female admissions ratio for the College in 1976. The admissions ratio is “a
fundamentally moral issue which goes to the very heart of humanity,” according to Maydole. He said he has always considered
the policy morally wrong but until now has “stood by with benign neglect without speaking out.” Maydole said he believes
the faculty is now committed to eliminating the rigid ratio.

Admissions Director John Griffith said he supported Maydole’s position and welcomed the petition as an indication of faculty concern. Next
Thursday Griffith will request that the Trustees re-evaluate the College’s admission policy. “The time has come to look at the
policy again,” Griffith said. If the Trustees agree to re-evaluate present policy, Griffith said he will compile a report on
the process.and impact of possible policy changes, including changes in the male/female ratio. The number of female applicants has increased
in recent years, Griffith noted. Because demographic trends indicate that more and more women will enter higher education in the
future, the College will probably find the 2 to 1 ratio difficult to maintain. The President’s Advisory Council on Admissions
and Financial Aid will meet in the next few days to discuss Griffith’s plans, according to Coun- (See page 10)

Black Student Coalition protests KA Old South

By TIM WHALEN
News Editor

“Because of the past 200 odd years of white racism and the present white racism experienced by Blacks, the feelings
of anger, anguish, hate, hurt...will ALWAYS exist and will most certainly be evoked when symbols of white racism are displayed.”
So said the Black Student Coalition (BSC) in a flier they distributed last evening protesting Kappa Alpha Fraternity’s (KA) Old
South Weekend. KA will hold Old South off campus this weekend.

“Our interest is not racist,” KA President Eric Crum said. Crum added he and KA members do not view Old
South Weekend, the fraternity’s traditional costume ball, as a symbol of white racism, but as a celebration of KA’s gentlemanly
and chivalrous heritage.

The BSC’s protest grows out of a meeting between five BSC members and five KA members set up by Crum
last Wednesday. Crum said he called the meeting to discuss relations between the two organizations, and especially their differing views
of Old South. Kennebrew and Crum both said the meeting was valuable in opening up communications between the two groups.
Kennebrew said, “It was very valuable because when we went into it I don’t think they were really aware of
how we feel about Old South. They were open to us, and we got (See page 10)

Inequitable facilities, scant funds and lack of publicity irk women athletes

By EDITH PARKER
Staff Writer

“The progress has been inexcusably slow...how long can they say, ‘we’ve just gone coed?’” Women’s tennis and swimming coach Pat
Miller's comments seem to sum up the frustration felt by woman athletes and coaches about the growth of the College’s
women’s athletics program.

The program began in 1973-74 with the formation of a basketball and a tennis team, both with volunteer coaches. Since
then, it has become a five-team program which includes basketball, tennis, track, cross country, and field hockey. This year the
field hockey team was nationally ranked and the tennis team won the state championship. Yet athletes feel the program has
not developed quickly enough in many areas. The recommendations presented to the President’s Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics by a
group of woman athletes list some of the athletes’ hopes for the future (see article above).

Most athletes and staff members cited inequitable use of facilities, lack of publicity, and insufficient funds for recruiting as major
problems in the women’s athletics program.

Facilities

Some women athletes have complained of discriminatory treatment in the use of sports facilities. For example, the women’s tennis team
has had difficulty in the last few years obtaining permission to use the upper tennis courts. Traditionally, the men’s team
has used the upper courts while the women’s team has played on the lower ones. According to senior Anne Stanback,
the upper courts are available only to the men’s varsity tennis team and the faculty. The lower courts are available
for general use, which “hurts the quality of the courts.” The lower courts are also less visible, have only one
set of bleachers, no water fountains, and no trash cans, she added.

An independent committee which evaluated the entire athletic program a year ago reported that the College’s only problem with tennis
facilities is “how to better share the use of the tennis house and better courts between men and women.” This
spring the team encountered difficulty during what one player termed the “biggest match of the year.” According to Stanback, several
team members asked Assistant Athletic Director Tom Couch if the team could use the upper courts since the men’s tennis
team (See page 11)
