Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

History Professor David Shi

Dr. Shi’s new book

An excerpt from Matthew Josephson, in Bohemian

In Matthew Josephson's Bourgeois Bohemian, Dr. David Shi of the Davidson history department has written an insightful portrayal of a complex, difficult character.

Educated at Columbia, Matthew Josephson was caught up in the excitement of the Parisian Dadaists in the early '20s and gained fame as the publicist of two French literary magazines. Back in the U.S., Josephson became known as an author, writing biographies of Zola and Rousseau, among others, as well as completing a history of early American capitalists, The Robber Barons. Paradoxically, as Dr. Shi points out in the following excerpt, when the liberal intellectual Josephson came to embrace radical communism, he maintained a bourgeois detachment from the doctrine’s practical ramifications and personified the capitalist entrepreneurs he sought to weaken. In the acclaimed biography, Bourgeois Bohemian, published by Yale University Press, Dr. Shi has shed light on this and other incongruities in the life of one of this century's intellectuals.

JOSEPHSON PORTRAYED HIMSELF IN HIS ROLE AS a fellow traveler as a man at the edge of the crowd more than at the front. He insisted that he always made up his mind independent of party influence. But there is more to be said on this issue. True, Josephson never inclined toward membership in the party. And as he emphasized time and again in later years, he frequently and openly disagreed with party policies concerning cultural matters. Nevertheless, on most major political issues in the 1930s and after, Josephson pretty much followed the Communist line. Like so many fellow travelers, he pragmatically fastened upon the utopian promises and immediate relevance of communism without recognizing or admitting the gross vulgarities and human inequalities of communism in practice. His own idealism at times betrayed him and his critical faculties.

Josephson also later insisted that he did not experience something akin to a sudden religious conversion to communism, as so many others did. “I was not,” he wrote, “one who experienced a religious conversion to Marxism and read Das Kapital as a breviary, but I found Marx wonderfully timely and apposite in those days.” On the surface, however, Josephson’s transformation from Dadaist to Marxist did indeed seem to represent an incredible reversal of attitudes, a remarkable about-face analogous to a religious conversion. After seeing Josephson at a Communist rally during the early 1930s, Murray Kempton remarked with astonishment: “There was Matthew Josephson, the playboy of the revolution of the word in the twenties... previously identified with Secession, transition, and Dada.” Josephson’s change of roles and attitudes, however, was not so much revolutionary as evolutionary, not so much a religious conversion as a sequential intellectual progression. There was an underlying unity of values at work behind such a spectacular transition in ideology.

In some respects, Josephson was attracted to communism for the same reasons he had earlier been attracted to Dadaism. His basic intellectual outlook had been shaped by the modernist literary attitude he had adopted as a college student in Greenwich Village, an attitude that meant great esteem for those writers who were most revolutionary in their artistic approach: Pound, Eliot, Joyce. Josephson later found the Dadaists appealing because they, too, went to extremes. Now he embraced the Communist position at least in part because of its radicalism. He clearly preferred it to the socialism of Norman Thomas, which he derided as an “educational or evolutionary socialism, devised by our granddaddies.” The Communists, on the other hand, did not compromise or temporize in promoting revolutionary change. And such dynamism was what the contemporary crisis demanded. As Josephson exclaimed in 1932, “My disgust, my pessimism... leads me to support, if anything, those extremists who disturb our inert society a little.” Whether as Dadaist or as fellow traveler, Matthew Josephson was by nature a disturber of the peace, a man capable of great indignation and oriented toward group action. “No Protestant liberalism for me,” he told Cowley, “not in these times, anyway.”

In this sense, Josephson fits the description that T. B. Bottomore has applied to the fellow travelers in his study Critics of Society. He points out that literary intellectuals were attracted to Marxism not primarily as a complex social theory but more as a means of continuing, “in another fashion, that alienation from American society which had begun toward the end of the nineteenth century.” During the twenties, Josephson was alienated from the convention of genteel literature and the philistinism of bourgeois life; in the thirties, he was alienated from the callousness of Western capitalism. As Dadaist and as fellow traveler, Josephson was both a distinct individual and part of a group. In both roles, he was involved in society yet also detached from it; he cherished his involvement and his detachment. Thus, in both Dadaism and communism, he found a haven, a sense of community and involvement, that served as an antidote to the alienation he felt. His attachment in each instance, therefore, was relatively superficial. In neither case did he develop a thorough understanding of the historical or theoretical bases of the movements. Nor did he ever give himself totally to them, as did his friend Louis Aragon. He was, in the literal sense of the term, a fellow traveler, both as Dadaist and as Communist.

---