THE DAVIDSONIAN
In Veritate Magna Vis
Volume LXX, Number 20
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina
April 3, 1981

Fred, everyone's number one mutt, is profiled this week. See article page 9. (John Krotchko)

Irwin and Knox dorms will open doors in September
By CAMBRIA MELTON
Staff Correspondent

The College’s two new student residence halls, Mary Irwin Belk (Irwin) and Peter Knox (Knox) halls, will be ready for occupation by September. Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze estimated the total cost of the new dormitories at $1.2 million.

Each of the identical two-story brick halls will house 54 students. Knox will house men only, and Irwin will house men on the first floor and women on the second. Each of the rooms in both halls is a double. All students, except freshmen, will have a chance at drawing a room in Irwin and Knox during the housing lottery to be held April 9 and 10. A room in these new dorms will cost $885, as will all other doubles on campus.

Construction on the two new dormitories, located behind Patterson Court, is running ahead of schedule. “We’re only waiting for the furniture,” Housing Director Bill Bolding commented. The dorms are both centrally heated and air-conditioned and have a carpeted lounge as well as kitchen facilities. Other features include carpeted halls and new lighting designs. Bolding commented, “They’re really looking sharp.”

Although there are no sinks in the 11 x 16 foot rooms, bath facilities are convenient to clusters of rooms. Each room has two double-hung windows and is furnished with a wood-and-wood product loft system. With this system, students may stack and arrange furniture for lofts or for twin beds. This provides for ample (See page 11)

Legerton sweeps SGA presidency
By MAHMOUD SAYANI
Staff Correspondent

Junior Chip Legerton defeated Stuart Dorsett in Tuesday’s elections by a vote of 554 to 266 to become the new SGA President. Legerton’s Vice-President is Sophomore Chip Hurley, who ran unopposed for the position.

Former President David Waddill said he was pleased with the way the elections went. “The candidates held a very nice, dignified campaign and spoke well for themselves and for the school,” he said. He confirmed that there had been no irregularities in Tuesday’s elections, emphasizing that the elections were under the Honor Code. Last year, students discovered a discrepancy of 234 votes between the number of ballots cast and the number of students registered as having voted. Waddill said the discrepancy had been a result of students’ failing to cross out their names, but it had no significant effect on the final results.

Legerton said he was “optimistic about the things we can accomplish.” He feels the SGA has done a good job this past year and plans to continue their projects next year. However, he would like to create “a merger between the two interpretations [of the SGA]: the project-oriented, which was emphasized last year, and the student-concerns part.”

Legerton said the SGA should deal with present student concerns and issues. He cited the use of the Dining Commons, the Patterson Court two-tiered proposal, student input on faculty evaluation, and admissions as important issues. He cautioned, however, against the SGA’s becoming what he called “a complaint bureau.” It should be a channel for expressing opinions and working with the administration.

The new President also stressed that “the SGA can only be as dynamic as the students who participate in it.” To increase student participation in the SGA and to better inform students of the SGA’s activities, he plans to further publicize the SGA’s activities through a weekly column in the Davidsonian written by different senators on their activities, and through visits by senators to the eating houses to exchange information and views with students.

Legerton also said that he would like to increase the SGA’s presently somewhat limited influence in college affairs. Newly-elected Vice President Chip Hurley was “really excited” about his position and said it was “a very rewarding job, though it is a hidden one with no glory attached to it.” Legerton is a pre-medicineMajor from Charleston, South Carolina, and Hurley is a political science major from Bluefield, West Virginia.

Off-campus housing will lose 48 spaces
By AGNES STEVENS
Staff Correspondent

There will be more on-campus and less off-campus housing available to students next year. The two new dormitories, Mary Irwin Belk and Peter Knox Halls, will house 108 students. (See story page 2) Perimeter housing for students will be reduced from 120 to 88 spaces, according to Housing Director Bill Bolding. The extra space will go to professors and their families to ease the faculty housing shortage. The student housing lottery will be Monday, April 13 through Wednesday, April 15. The increase in on-campus housing may prevent some sophomores from moving off campus. College policy allows students to move off campus only if all available campus housing is filled. (See page 11) The rooms in the new dorms will feature these modular wooden lofts.

Profs take initiative in improving language instruction
By DONALD CALDWELL
News Editor Emeritus

Davidson students will not be pushed into world citizenship as quickly as they may have expected. Just four months ago the college’s foreign language program seemed to be headed for a change. The Educational Policy Committee had proposed increasing the language requirement from three to four terms, and President Samuel Spencer had spoken at Fall Convocation of the need to find “new ways of enabling students to learn languages better than in the past.” It now appears there will be no major changes initiated by the college in the near future. The faculty rejected the fourth term idea in February, and President Reagan’s proposed budget cuts have jeopardized the possibility of finding federal funds to support ambitious new programs. If any change does occur, it will be piecemeal, initiated by the language departments themselves. A number of professors seem willing to take this initiative. Some advocate a mandatory fourth term; others affirm the necessity of study abroad. They all remain dissatisfied with the college’s present efforts in language instruction.

“I think Davidson is trying to do too much for the time it allots for language acquisition,” French Professor Alan Singerman said. “This year we have established a strong, demanding intermediate French program. But ten weeks at the ‘20’ level is simply too short,” he said. “In my opinion there should be two ten-week terms of intermediate language study on the present ‘20’ level. This would mean a fourth course, but it would not mean more advanced work. The extra term would permit us to reinforce the intermediate work we've done.” Singerman felt that attempts to strengthen language proficiency within the context of a three-term requirement would be impossible. “In spite of an unusually high average potential here, we can’t expect students to be supermen. What we have here is a very strong ten-week program. It would be in the interests of Davidson students to have another course, especially for those studying abroad.”

Singerman advocated the implementation of the Dartmouth method, which reinforces daily classroom instruction with language laboratory work and intensive oral sessions. This year, for the first time, the French department is using the Dartmouth plan in a modified form. The Dartmouth method normally consists of five hours of lab work, five hours of oral drill, and five hours of classroom work for a total of fifteen hours per week. This compares with a total of approximately seven hours per week required of Davidson French students.

Spanish Professor Lois Kemp agreed that there is a need for a fourth term. “While I think we're doing a good job in Spanish right now, the workload is very demanding. I think we could be more successful if we could expand by an extra course to allow us to even things out. Students can only absorb so much so fast,” she added.

German Professor Hansford Epes questioned whether another course would improve language proficiency enough to warrant its implementation. “I don’t see the support among faculty and students for curricular change that we had in the late '60s when the Blue Sky Curriculum was introduced,” Epes said. “While we may not be producing people that are fully...” (See page 11)