Walsvpes

\ We.

HEAT STORAGE

ENVELOPE SOLAR Home
DAYTIME AIR movement

distribution of heat, and I would like to add a pre-heater for the water.”

Biology Professor D. Kimmel has a double shell passive solar home. This is an unusual type of structure which is like a house within a house. Because of this construction, an envelope of air, which surrounds the house on the north and south sides as well as the roof and floor, is able to convect around the house. During the daytime, air is warmed in the solarium and rises in the envelope to the shaded roof. Here the air cools and moves down the envelope in the roof through the north wall to the air space below the house where some of the heat is stored in rock and water. At night, cool air from the solarium sinks below the house causing the rock bed to re-radiate heat which circulates in the opposite direction of daytime movement.

The virtue of this air envelope is added insulation. If the exterior temperature is 30°F, the interior temperature is 70°F, and the envelope temperature is 50°F, heat energy from the interior will conduct more slowly from the interior than if the envelope were absent.

Kimmel estimates that he saves $1000 per year on his utility bill. His home is well-insulated so that there are no “leaky spots” and his home, therefore, has a uniform interior temperature. “Another advantage,” he said, “is quietness. You’ve got two completely insulated walls between you and the outside world.” Speaking as a biologist, D. Kimmel added, “Your mucous membranes don’t dry out in the winter time, because you are not continually blowing a lot of new, warm, dry air into your house from your furnace.”

The field of passive solar housing is growing slowly. It is an exciting field, because no one has all the answers. Every year there are new ideas and experiments. Physics Professor Bob Manning, who is presently adding a greenhouse to his home, said that heating oil is expected to triple in price in the next five years, making passive solar heating the only feasible way to heat a home. M. Blackwell believes that passive solar housing will soon be out of the drawing board stages and will dominate homebuilding in the future.

12.

Rerreton Proe Dawds KAyror's Home

photo by Eric Long ‘83

photo by Eric Long ‘83