HAVE YOU EVER HEARD OF Davidson’s Philanthropic Literary Society? Neither did I, until Mary Windam and I noticed an interesting discussion in the announcement sheet and decided to try it out. Ironically, the meeting we attended occurred the week after a closed business meeting at which the Society voted to continue their policy of excluding females from their membership. In the open discussion that we attended, Mary and I were the only women out of approximately twenty students. Naturally, we wondered why the Phi Society voted as it did. The president of Phi, Howard Browne, gave us this eloquent answer: “No comment.”

If all of the members of the Society were of the same opinion as the officers, Mary and I would never have known of the vote from the preceding meeting, unless of course one of us tried to join. At the beginning of the meeting, President Howard Browne asked Secretary Jim Brown to read the minutes, then added: “Ah, . . . the abbreviated minutes.” Jim read minutes that spoke only of “the proposal” and “the vote” — without a hint of the subject of the proposal. We became aware of what had happened and how the officers had tried to cover it when the speaker for the night, John Sherman, told us. When I decided to write this article, I asked to read the minutes of that business meeting, but the Society refused to let me see them.

Although I got no official response from the Society, I did hear several opinions of members. Sherman Allen, writer of the majority opinion in favor of excluding women, told me his reasons. His first reason was that the Society would become more social instead of maintaining the intellectual atmosphere that is its purpose. The second excuse was that if women became members, the Society would become more social instead of maintaining the intellectual atmosphere that is its purpose. The College owns Phi Hall, but the Society considers the upstairs meeting room to be theirs. As Jim Brown said, “It bothers me to see almost anyone use the hall.” The Society is notified before others use the hall, and the hall is decorated as they like it (candlesticks, a chandelier, etc.). He also countered with, “What about the Women’s Center?” The Women’s Center does not exclude men. The house is segregated for living (as is all College-owned housing), but men are encouraged to and do participate in the club.

You may wonder why I am interested in joining a Society that does not want me. Actually, a majority of the members at the closed business meeting voted to begin allowing women members! According to Bob Flemma, the officers required that the policy could only be changed by a two-thirds majority. According to Flemma, there is a substantial faction in the Society pressing to allow any Davidson student to join the Society.

Because the Philanthropic Society’s policy upsets and angers me, I have been accused of making a big issue over a petty and insignificant incident. But the problems that surface with an issue such as this one are extremely important. The members of the Phi Society obviously believe that sex discrimination is not wrong. Some of them believe that women are more social than intellectual. Even more importantly, the attitudes that have become obvious among certain Phi Society members are quite common in subtler form among a large number of Davidson students, faculty, and staff. If you don’t believe that sex discrimination goes on at Davidson, open your eyes! There is a great need on this campus for each of us to realize how we treat each other, and to take the time to be sensitive.

Cathi Dumas is a junior psychology major from Durham.