8—The Davidsonian—February 6, 1981

Flick Talk

For those of you who thought that you could see the discreet charm of the bourgeoisie any night of the
week down at SAE and Rusk, the Fine Films Committee has a pleasant surprise for you at 8 p.m. next
Wednesday in Love Auditorium. The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie is the third feature by Spanish director Luis Bunuel to
be shown by Fine Films this year, and is easily the best. Perhaps more aptly entitled Six Characters in Search
of a Dinner, this is a wry, humorous berating of the morals and manners of Parisian sophisticates, which skillfully contains
considerable satirical venom.

The plot, such as it is, of this dreaming, surrealistic film, full of discontinuities, ellipses, and non-sequiturs, concerns the pitiful
and repeatedly thwarted attempts of six members of the haute bourgeoisie to dine together. Led by Fernando Rey, Bunuel’s veteran
accomplice as butt of the director’s social hatred, the sextet are foiled in their intentions time and again by sex,
drunkenness, military intervention, and the whole gamut of niggling, subversive faux pas against which their perfectly structured artificial environment is
supposed to protect their empty, facile souls. As their social world disintegrates, so too do their personalities, and Bunuel portrays
his characters repeatedly waking up in terror from dreams of Tantalus-like torture, their food always left uneaten as another social
embarrassment assaults their sense of propriety.

The characters, played to the hilt by Rey, Stephane Audran, Bulle Ogier, and Delphine Seyrig particularly, increasingly become the victims
of Bunuel’s hatred and disgust at the agents of conspicuous consumption. Finally, it is implied, they are irredeemable, lost souls
wandering down a country road leading nowhere, never able to eat, never able to rest. A powerful, provocative film, charmingly
comic, bitingly subversive, full of surrealistic fables and anti-establishment jokes, this is the work of a master at his very
best and should not be missed.

To whet your appetites earlier in the week, on Friday night in Love, the Pop Films Committee shows the erstwhile
Oscar-winning Coming Home, an early example of the post-post-trauma Vietnam film. Jane Fonda performs an increasingly unsteady balancing act between
the demands of the Concerned Cinema and those of commercial success, and it’s really anybody’s guess as to which one
gets her soul in the end. Jon Voight is superb as the crippled veteran. This is followed late on Saturday
night by Mike (Catch 22) Nichols’ Carnal Knowledge, a pioneering attempt at a mature and reasonable look at the sexual
mores of two Americans from sophomoric steaminess to disillusioned middle age. Jack Nicholson and Art Garfunkel are the two versions
of the all-American male, Ann-Margret and Candice Bergen the women unreasonably asked to tolerate them (or vice versa depending on
your viewpoint). Quite a milestone in its day, it should be worth seeing a second (or even a first) time.

Nick Graham

Feeling depressed winter term is the only socially acceptable thing to do

By EFF HERRIN
Features Editor Emeritus

I have discovered yet another critical area in which the Davidson student body is falling short, an aspect of social
involvement in which the famed campus apathy is again the villain. I refer to those students who are walking around
campus in a chipper mood. Once again the season is upon us when pursuit of the “Winter Blues” is in
vogue, and, while most students are actively seeking despondency, there remain die-hards that thoughtlessly refuse to participate. This article is
directed toward this uncaring, uncooperative bunch of moonbeams.

The greatest obstacle to unanimity on this subject is an unawareness of how great a Davidson Depression can be. Ask
any of the several hundred “downers” now wandering determinedly around campus. If they feel like talking, they'll tell you that
feeling sorry for yourself is the best part of it, but it goes much further than that. First, there is
a sense of camaraderie that can be found only in exchanging complacent complaints with fellow “depressos” (Yes, I made up
all these words.) Being depressed gives you the ability to sympathize with almost everyone’s situation—it’s comparable only to “foxhole friendships.”

Competition is also a part of participating in the Davidson Depression. The skill lies in feeling sorrier for yourself than
for someone else. Witness this typical Davidson winter-term exchange:
“Oh, hi. How’s it going?”
“Well, it’s been o.k.....”
“I know what you mean. It’s, well, it’s just that I’ve got so much to do, and don’t feel like
doing any of it...”
“Yeah, well, I’ve a review at eleven and two papers due tomorrow that I haven't started, and...”
“But I’ve had the flu for a week, and...”
And so on. The intention is to let as many folks as possible know how much worse off you are
than they.

The list of benefits goes on. Excusable impoliteness, accep—but knowledge of these advantages might not be enough for the recalcitrant
Davidson student. With this in mind, I offer a few of the do’s and don’t’s on the path to pathos.
If care is taken to follow a few simple guidelines, we can, witha little imagination and determination, easily join the
ranks of the winter-afflicted. A favorite first step is to watch the evening news and hear what Ronald Reagan has
to say. This should temper your spirits and start you in the right direction. You can then move on to
more extensive endeavors, such as going to a SPE party. If you are taking a lab course, you are at
a distinct advantage this winter. There is nothing more effective than spending three days a week in a chemistry lab
(Chem 41 is my favorite). Taking three intensive reading courses is also a plus: you will invariably have at least
two, and probably three, 10-page papers due on the same day. It becomes perfectly appropriate to stop every person you
meet and relate this astounding fact.

In the event that none of these situations depress you, more serious measures are called for. Attending a RUSK party
is sure to send you into a nosedive. Ditto for studying in the library on Friday night. Or, better yet,
in Chambers on Saturday. Remember to check your empty mailbox, especially on Sunday afternoon. Talk to self-acknowledged pathetic people. The
field of depressive actions is expanding, so be creative. Along with these things to do are a few equally important
don’ts. Don’t listen to a Chipmunk Punk album. And don’t talk to Ivy Goodman. I hope I have shed some
light on the Davidson winter syndrome. I feel that all too many students are unaware of the opportunity open to
them this term. It’s time we all worked together on this. Let school go to blue this winter: after all,
it’s tradition.

Bell reads poems that your mother wouldn't like
By PETER GULYN
Staff Correspondent

“The delicate bird who is flying up your asses/is flying up mine, also....” Words like these won literary prizes during
the turbulent period of the late 60’s. This is the first line of a poem by Marvin Bell, a well-known
poet and teacher of poetry who has published many such strongly-worded controversial poems. Bell will visit Davidson next Wednesday, February
11. He has scheduled an informal talk at an open luncheon at 12:30 p.m. and a reading from his work
and that of the late James Wright at 8 p.m. in the 900 room. In the afternoon, he will take
part in English Professor Tony Abbott's creative writing workshop in room 301. Abbott calls Bell “one of the best readers
I have ever heard... We would like to have people of Bell's caliber here every year.”

A teacher for many years at the distinguished University of Iowa Program in Creative Writing and one of the most
popular staff members of Middlebury College’s Bread Loaf Writer's Conference, Bell has delighted students and colleagues with his sense of
humor, vitality, and ability as a reader to hold audiences. Bell considers teaching and writing equally important. He compares teaching
to “giving blood” with no one to turn off the tap (so one has to do it oneself). When not
bleeding, Bell finds time for jogging and extensive traveling. He ran in the Honolulu Marathon while teaching a semester at
the University of Hawaii. Bell returned from a stint in Italy only last month. After coming to Davidson, he will
continue his swing through the South, stopping to lecture at Emory University in Atlanta, and the University of Tennessee at
Chattanooga.

Several books of Bell’s poetry have won recognition. A few include A Probable Volume of Dreams, given the Lamont Award
by the Academy of American Poets in 1969 and Stars Which See, Stars Which Do Not See, a National Book
Award finalist for 1977. He is working on a new volume of poetry to be entitled These Green-Going-to-Yellow. A compilation
of correspondence in the form of poems between Bell and poet Will Stafford is also forthcoming. Other books of verse
include: The Escape Into You (1971), Residue of Song (1974), Things We Dreamt We Died For (1966), and Poems for
Nathan and Saul (1971).

$36,000 after four years.

Sophomores/juniors/seniors earn over $850 per month during the last two years of college. Get a head start on an exciting,
challenging position after graduation. While you finish school, we will pay you over $850 per month to study and maintain
good grades. We have the best graduate-level nuclear training program in the world and math, physics, chemistry, technical majors, and
engineering students can qualify. U.S. citizens less than 27 years old, a 3.0 GPA or better, and good health are
the requirements. We offer a projected salary of $36,000 after four years. For more information: send to Lt. Russ Bowers,
Navy Nuclear Programs Manager, 1001 Navaho Dr., Raleigh, NC 27609. OR call 1-800-662-7568.

Depressed Jeff Herrin proves he is not a moonbeam. (David McCurry)
