Better War Through Technology

The neutron bomb potentially reduces the horror of modern war.

IT IS A MEASURE OF THE PASSION PEOPLE FEEL about nuclear weapons that President Reagan has touched off yet another neutron bomb flap by announcing, on August 8, that the parts now being built for these devices will be screwed together when finished instead of being stored separately. The finished products will remain in the United States, as the parts would have done, unless they are needed elsewhere. Several NATO countries have already seen a new round of demonstrations against this weapon of low power and high precision.

Necessity can be the father of political invention. All nuclear weapons are horrific things. They cannot be disinvented, but there are three things that modern technology ought to be doing to reduce the horror:

1. It should be improving the accuracy of the bombs and rockets that carry nuclear warheads, so that smaller warheads, which cause less destruction, can replace larger ones.
2. It should alter the design of nuclear devices so that they have only the destructive effects that are absolutely necessary. All nuclear weapons produce blast, heat, direct (neutron) radiation, and radioactive fallout. Not all these effects are needed for all targets. Those that are not needed can be reduced, and some can be almost eliminated.
3. The technologists should be trying to invent non-nuclear weapons to replace nuclear ones.

The neutron warhead is a good example of the second possibility, and can eventually be replaced by an example of the third. Neutron warheads, fired by guns or short-range rockets, are designed to stop tanks attacking in mass formation if non-nuclear anti-tank weapons fail to do the job (as they quite possibly would fail against the very large Russian tank force in Europe). “Ordinary” nuclear weapons — forgive the phrase — can do this too, but the amount of blast and heat they produce would destroy whole areas of countryside and human habitation in the process. Better, surely, to kill the tank crews by direct radiation without these appalling side-effects. The neutron warhead would produce the direct radiation of a 10-kiloton “ordinary” nuclear weapon, but the blast and heat of only a 1-kiloton one. If detonated more than 1,500 feet above the earth, its blast and fire would affect only a small area directly below the explosion, and almost no poisonous fallout would be deposited downwind. On the horror scale, it is less horrible than its existing alternative.

Better sooner than later

Still, it is being opposed not only by those who oppose all nuclear weapons but also by another, potentially more influential, group of objectors. These are the people who originally supported the idea of building the neutron warhead but now argue that its political price may be too high, because Reagan’s stockpiling the neutron bomb.

Where will deployment of the neutron bomb lead us?

THE UNIQUE NATURE OF THE NEUTRON BOMB is that, for all intents and purposes, it is a weapon useful only in Europe. Sure, the Afghans could use it with singular effect. But primarily it is the natural weapon for Europe. Natural because it is utterly inoffensive, non-provocative because it is defensive in nature. The enhanced radiation warhead, positioned in artillery instruments, launches less than 100 miles and kills only personnel, preferably those driving huge Russian tanks lumbering over European soil.

Now, President Reagan’s shrewd step lay precisely in not talking about any deadline for positioning these warheads. On the matter of theater nuclear forces, the agenda is already crowded. By the end of 1983, we are supposed to have Pershing and cruise missiles in Western Europe of far greater consequence than the neutron bomb in terms of strategic equilibrium. The former are designed as counterforce weapons to cope with the devastating SS20s deployed by the Soviet Union.

If Jimmy Carter had, in 1978, followed the recommendation of Gen. Alexander Haig (and the surreptitious recommendations of many European leaders) to deploy the neutron bombs, we'd have got at the matter...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

ter of re-arming Europe in a more orderly way, with priority given to defensive weapons, backed only

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 October 1981

William Buckley

then by offensive weapons. Ideally the chronology would have been: 1) Europe deploys neutron bombs. 2) Russia removes or does not remove its SS20s. If not, 3) Europe deploys the cruise and Pershing missiles. Reagan has said to his European brothers: Gentlemen, we shall see to it that we have the arms. Although NATO has formal authority to deploy weapons, and indeed has already deployed tactical nuclear weapons, we recognize that you have a veto power over what weapons squat down on your own soil. But the question before the house is, whether the Soviet Union, through you, has a veto over which weapons the United States can manufacture, weapons that are useful only to you.

Within the memory of all Americans over 50, Winston Churchill asked America to give Great Britain the tools, and it would do the job. We are taking the precaution of moving so that our arsenal will be ready when you call on it. If in 1935 we had had, immediate neutron decision could further weaken western Europe’s willingness to deploy the medium-range cruise and Pershing-2 missiles that NATO needs as a counterbalance to Russia’s SS-20s. The answer is that, if neutron warheads are needed at all, it is better for Mr. Reagan to announce their go-ahead now rather than after negotiations with Russia about the other bigger missiles have begun later this year. The disruptive effect would be even bigger then. And neutron warheads are needed. It is true that new non-nuclear anti-tank weapons are being developed which should eventually make them unnecessary. But this easy solution to the problem will not be ready for several more years. Those will be dangerous years, because they are the ones during which Russia, with all those tanks, will have at least a theoretical first-strike capability against land-based missiles in America itself.

There is a way to diminish opposition to the neutron decision. First, the United States should announce that it plans to scrap an equal number of “ordinary” nuclear warheads in its present tactical arsenal as soon as the neutron ones are ready. This would show that neutron weapons are not additions to the stockpile but less-destructive replacements for old weapons. Second, the Americans can press ahead with the development of the new non-nuclear anti-tank defenses, and declare that the neutron warheads themselves will be scrapped as soon as their conventional substitutes are available. That will not satisfy all the objectors, but it should satisfy the ones open to persuasion.

If available to France and Great Britain, 500 bombers and 1,000 fighters, you could have stopped Hitler by raising one index finger pointed warningly at Berlin. When the time comes to deploy the neutron weapons you will not need to wait for them over what could prove a critical period.

Europe’s final response? There are grounds, great grounds, for pessimism. In 1959, writing from Europe, Whittaker Chambers (the most eloquent prophet of our time) wrote, “Give them the means, and these dear friends, that noble Third Force, will cut our bloody throats. As people, they are stronger than we are, and they know it — I mean as individual people amounting to a mass, they are stronger. In the mass they loathe us. At another level their disdain for us is withering. At their most understanding or compassionate, they neither hate nor loathe; it’s just that they cannot help being conscious of a difference that superior breeds feel in the presence of others. Often they show it most by their effort not to show it. Give these superior breeds the economic power to see us at eye level, and they will see right over us. They have been seeing through us for years.”

Yes, but the latent strength of America, which bailed Europe out twice in this century, is ready to do it again. But this time, Deo volente, by deterring war, rather than merely winning it.