Friday, 18 September 1981
The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

There is a new school year to enjoy and a new Davidsonian to enjoy as well. But to truly savor your Davidsonian experience may require developing a taste for it—a taste for sterner stuff than campus posters or letters from Mum; far gentler, however, than your everyday devoirs. Don’t be offput by these twenty-four pages. Rather, simply follow this travelogue to master the tabloid you’re holding.

Self-selection
Any advice about which section to read first is apt to be ignored. So no advice here. When you pick up your paper, take a quick look at the front page index to locate your very own favorite and open to it. Film reviews. World views. News. Features. Sports. Opinions. Whatnot. It’s all there, so self-select your preference.

Running track
The crucial point is that you not miss a thing. It takes a week to create the paper—just for you—so give it more than a cursory stare. Be prepared. With pen in hand, check off the index as you finish a section. You’ll be glad you did. Should you be called away mid-page, you’ll not want to leave any parts unread. So keep a running track of the ground you’ve covered.

The last shall be first
See the pen and you’ve missed the point. The editorials will tell you important things that news stories can’t. If there’s insight to be revealed or a conclusion to be drawn, look for it on the penultimate page. You noticed that the news summary (inside of the front page) and the editorial (inside of the back page) are in a different type size and column width than the rest of the paper. There is a reason. If you could only read two things from start to end each week, they should be these. And make the editorial page your first priority when you read the paper; make it a habit.

Davidsonian Calendar pin-up
Each week, you’ll find something special on the middle two pages. This week it’s a map of Charlotte; next week a calendar of events. Whatever it is, you’re welcome to pull it out and pin it on your bulletin board for convenient reference.

Dessert
All the stories read, you’re ready for a bit of dessert. Help yourself, then, to the comics page. You remember Bill “Signals” Appleton from last year—well, Bill’s back and better than ever with “Millennium.” Scot Myers (who apprenticed at Marvel Comics this summer) makes his entry with “The Satan Quest.” And more is yet to come.

We hope you’ll spend many a happy Friday afternoon with your Davidsonian. Let us know how it goes.

Cetacean fare
John Siman '82

On a visit to Davidson in July, a friend and I were lucky enough to be invited out to dinner by Mr. Carleton Pritchard, the new food services director. Mr. Pritchard entertained us in Richards House, for the Commons had not yet been completed. Entering Richards, we recalled the last time we had eaten there—almost two and a half years before, when we were freshmen. Richards was then hardly better than a high school cafeteria: the service, the...Food and the décor all indicated the cheapness of the outside operation that ran Davidson Gallery's food service. Richards on that summer evening was a different place than we remembered. The workers were sharp and responsive. Of course, we were eating with their boss, but we still had a feeling that they maintained a certain level of professionalism and politeness. The food was good. Until that evening, we had supposed that the kitchen could be more organized. Without saying a word, Mr. Pritchard had impressed us.

But Mr. Pritchard did have some things to tell us. He spoke about his previous job as food services director at the University of Virginia. He mentioned Oktoberfests and food olympics he had organized and convinced us that he knew what was appealing to students. He was capable of, we gathered, not only providing satisfying food but also throwing large-scale parties.

After dinner, Mr. Pritchard took us through the Commons, his soon-to-be new home. We had never guessed what the interior might be and expected to find something not unlike a cavern or empty barn. Instead, we saw the work of an architect who had shown off skills—an interior that was multi-leveled yet essentially simple, strikingly large yet graceful. Mr. Pritchard showed us fine wooden paneling in the formal dining room, walk-in refrigerators in the storage rooms, and four-foot diameter mixing bowls in the kitchen.

After we thanked Mr. Pritchard and bade him good night, we discussed the shiny panoply he was preparing for Davidson College—new food, new staff, a new dining hall, and a new social program. What more could the incoming freshmen and returning upperclassmen ask for? But then we thought: Who will be able to keep the pace Mr. Pritchard sets?

Perhaps the Commons will incite the Patterson Court Houses to offer better meals and social programs, we thought. We felt it more likely, however, that some upperclassmen would trickle into the Commons over the next few years—enough of a trickle to shut down a few of the weaker houses. Which may not be a bad thing. If the Commons can provide a better product, we agreed, it ought to take on the bulk of the dining business. But Patterson Court has for a long time been a central part of Davidson College life and therefore deserves a second look before it is allowed to decline. Patterson Court can’t match Mr. Pritchard’s professionalism, but its houses offer an intimate, almost family-like atmosphere that is, as far as we knew, unique to Davidson. Where students would choose to eat over the long run was not what worried us. We just hoped our classmates would make an active choice, rather than wake up one morning to find their eating houses had met an Arabian fate.

John Hic is a senior English major and editor of the Davidsonian.