The Devoidsonian—7

Graham’s Cracks

Although I have often hinted that the life of the keen cinephile at Davidson can be more of a ship’s
biscuit than the apogee of confectionary, the egregious activities of Fine Flick’s coruscating aegis have once again saved the beer-and-beach-drenched
mind of the would-be cinephile from the more urbane options of self-amusement, such as parties, dates, and sundry social événements.

Insofar as this week’s celluloid classics are concerned, only the most grievous outbreak of cispiedmontic prudishness could prevent Love Auditorium
from being packed to the rafters. On Wednesday, Fine Flicks presents the much-feted L’ennuie Americaine, starring the voluptuous, full-bodied, and
aa-bosomy Christiana Tristana and veteran flick star Fernando Moonbeame. This sesquipedalian saga of love, agony, and subversive urbanity is, in
my opinion, director Elia Bunniwel’s greatest attempt at capturing the pathos and pungency of life in a politically fluctuating Moroccan
sheep ranch, not to mention the many Bacchian aspects of Tristana’s all-too-permeable bubbies. Irrespective of certain trite snippets of intellectual
incoherence, Bunniwel’s aficionados will not fail to recognize Tristana’s nymphomaniac and possibly incestuous affair with Moonbeame’s illegitimate brother Ray as
a metaphor for the philotheoteradactylic nuances of nineteenth-century Antarctic ice-fishing colonies, on which Bunniwel wrote his doctoral thesis before rebelling
against the conservative liberal arts decrees of Moosejaw University and going into theatre. Gerard Fiorucci gives a stunning performance in
his double role as Ray and the Yugoslavian prima ballerina who falls in love in Rouen after the attempted revolution,
and Zsa Zsa Zepardieu’s putative score eschews the pitifully proletarian musical palates of the moins que cultivée.

The more ambitious cinephile will undoubtedly not want to miss the legendary Swedish celluloid mogul Igor Birdmann’s latest objet d’art,
The Sixth Stigmata, being shown at the Visualgum this Friday. Starring Leave Oolmann and Ingrid Beercahn, the film’s eleemosynary angle
presents Birdmann’s usual obsessions with love, religion, and sadomasochism in an abundant array of nefarious activities singularly knit together in
webs of, generally purple, macabre surrealism. Francois Truffle plays the neo-Greek Orthodox zealot who falls in love with Oolmann, a
Finnish bourgeoisie trying to end it all, in his feverish search for the sixth stigmata. Their ensuing whips-and-chips affair always
ends up with Truffle’s niggling, subversive faux pas on Oolmann, and I need not disclose the whereabouts of the obscure
object of his desires. Loaded with pizzas that reek convincingly of camembert and garlic throughout, delivery-girl Beercahn’s sudden entrance on
a bicycle through the wall of Truffle’s luxurious farmhouse in the depressingly grey Lithuanian countryside is somewhat reminiscent of Eddie’s
violent appearance at Frankenfurter’s transvestite convention in The Rocky Horror Picture Show, that scene being the only memorable moment in
an otherwise otiose and etiolated B-movie tour de force, which I could hardly recommend to even the most sexually uneducated
Davidson student, which is just about all of you. When Oolmann finally realizes, after several red fade-outs and Gallic dalliances,
that the man she loves has turned to the maid-servant for relief, Birdmann’s dogma that passion is the mere tantamount
to an apostasy has already been established in ellipses, non-sequiturs, and anagrams of “Ineluctable modality of the visible.”

That, I’m afraid, is the very last installment of this column you will read in the Devoidsonian. It has been
getting more and more difficult to review flicks here, especially since the administrative aegises of this institution refuse to let
Fine Flicks show my personal favorite, The Last Can-Can in Kuwait; allegedly it is because the director is not a
Yale graduate. So as the moon sets sail from the harbor and the ship sinks slowly in the bayou, “Graham’s
Crack” is very mercifully being committed to that great Screening Room at Broughton. Wheeling off into the fog as the
philological sophistries roll off my tongue, what else can the effusive apprentice cinephile say? Here’s looking down at you, kiddies!

Laundry dredges up fond memories

By LAVINIA CORRIDOR

After the Style of Aurie

I remember ever since I was a freshman how I used to wonder about that laundry. Every Friday after lunch
I would wrap up all my dirty underwear and dresses in the old laundry sack my Uncle Pete had given
me on my 16th birthday, and roll up my blouses into a...Neat little ball, and head on down to the
Davidson laundry. It was just a short walk from Richardson dorm: you'd go up the hill toward Lowes (but it
was an empty lot back then) and curve around past the organ shop and the post office and stop by
the M&M Soda Shop and have the best chocolate milkshake this side of Mooresville. Then you'd walk past Chambers and
the library and go down the cross-country trail, pass through the soccer field, and follow the old road up past
the gym and the dorms and that funny-looking building where all those old men chew their tobacco and hold your
care packages from home and ogle their Cheryl Tiegs pinups. Then you were there. I remember how swell it used
to feel on fall days to carry my dirty clothes, humming a tune and kicking stray dogs, on my way
to the laundry. But what was that laundry really like? I couldn’t graduate happy until I knew. So this year
I finally got up the nerve to find out. Towing photographer Sally Neal moribundly behind me, I went up to
this old Black lady working in a pile of mismatched socks who looked like the dried prunes Billy Bumgardner and
I used to eat when I was six, and I asked her if she’d take me for a tour of
the place. She said yes and, with just a shiver of excitement, we passed behind the counter. Everybody called her
‘Dizzy’ Lizzy Glump because one time she got really silly on the smell of the soap suds and acted strange
for hours afterward. She says that was only one time, but Fred Meecker the lint man says he doesn’t know
about that. Lizzy said one time she and Fred found a Wildcat Special in somebody’s yellow warmups, still intact after
a washing and a drying. Lizzy showed me lots of old things and all sorts of antiques like a pair
of argyle socks and some blue plaid knickers and her yellow dentures and, of course, the washing machines. She showed
me Ginny Geek, the sheets and pillowcases lady. Nobody knows how old she is, but she just sits on the
steps all day without moving a muscle. ‘I think she dead,’ Lizzy said. Best of all was Lizzy’s pocket collection.
She showed me all kinds of things people had left in their pockets over the years: beer cans and blow
dryers and hubcaps and Pampers and dried bubble gum and a few dead dogs. Lizzy said she didn’t mind when
the College went co-ed because she had been washing a lot of suspicious clothes before then. She showed me some
bloomers from about 1927 and you could still make out stains. But Lizzy couldn’t understand ‘preppy’ clothing. ‘Only my kids
used to wear animals on their clothes but now everybody does,’ she said. She didn’t really care except sometimes when
the little ‘alligators’ come off the shirts and stop up the water pipes and get Mrs. M. Shryker angry. Then
they’d send Lizzy into the washing machine to find the trouble. ‘Sometimes it found me first,’ she said. Well, I’m
approaching the time when I take my last bundle of dirty clothes to the laundry. I'll really miss it, and
no matter what anybody says, it’s the greatest. Whether I’m in Northern Ireland next year working in a coffee shop
or picking pineapples in a kibbutz in Israel or repairing phone lines in Alaska, or just being a folksy person
somewhere, I'll always remember Lizzy and Fred and Ginny and Mrs. Shryker and all the folks and machines and steampipes
and stuff at the Davidson laundry.

Another so-so job by BURGER CONSTRUCTION

WARNING: Common Sense has determined that smoking guns are dangerous to health. A gun like this kills someone every 48
seconds. Exercise your GOD-GIVEN right to own one and get in on the fun!!

Hattie’s Night Special Available everywhere, to absolutely any nut!
