6—The Davidsonian—February 13, 1981

Inside IMAC

Smith and Briedenstine shine

It’s basketball playoffs time, and the final contenders in all three divisions are lined up. In the women’s playoffs, Twice
as Nice will face Harris-Teeters this Sunday at 8 p.m. The men’s B-league game will pit Much Later against Sex
Rays.

Cool Breeze squeaked past Fido into first place Wednesday in the men’s A-league. The game was tied up with six
seconds left, but Cool Breeze’s Gifford Piercy landed a 25-foot shot to wrap up the game 54-52. Earlier, Cool Breeze
had defeated PhiQ2 and Instant Grits in order to advance to the finals, while Fido had comfortably rolled over Takes
All Kinds and We're Pathetic. Instant Grits and We're Pathetic will now take each other on in the loser’s bracket.

Rosters for the two top teams are as follows:

COOL BREEZE
- Mickey Dillon
- Kevin Hanna
- Gifford Piercy
- James McLain
- Craig Fringe
- Andre Kinnebrew
- James Jones
- Alvin Atkinson
- Hulio Brady

FIDO
- Mark Blackman
- Pat Sheridan
- Kevin Wheelock
- David Waddill
- Bobby Lapple
- Gary McDonald
- Chip Christian

In reference to last week’s article about the weights being moved, presently the situation is still such that one may
only work out with a supervisor present. To this, I would like to speak. The new rule about supervision is
supposed to apply to everyone, and yet Wednesday a week ago when I went to the weight room while the
football team was working out, there was not a coach or faculty member to be found. According to one football
player, this is not an isolated occurrence. He says, “The coach isn’t in there half the time anyways.” If varsity
sports are going to make rules which are supposedly in everyone’s best interest (i.e. safety), then they should at least
abide by their own guidelines.

Here’s a letter someone sent in about last week’s column about trouble in the weight room:

Hey youse paperboys—

Me and the boys, we think it’s cool what we having them weights to ourselves and all. But so as
nobody thinks we maybe unfair or something, why not try this: All them math rats can have the computer all
to themselves, just like we got them weights, you see what I’m saying. Like, amateurs could really screw up them
fancy calculators without an instructor keeping their eyes on ’em. Same goes for music wimps and practice rooms. And Jesus
majors and DCPC. And the b-ball team’s gym—keep out. The way I’m seeing it, each person has their own thing
and everybody else ought to stay the hell away. That’s what I’m here on scholarship for, you read me? Like
my man Bingham says, the important thing is that nobody sues the school for hurting themselves.

George ‘Murrell
—A totally fictitious football player

Camp Thunderbird
Employment at its Best

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them
in their physical, mental, and spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to help each individual
child develop his or her potential should apply. One must have the ability to teach in one or more of
our specialized activities. College students, teachers, and coaches should apply.

CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles south of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sailing,
water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery,
riflery, and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing, and tripping are extras in our excellent program. For further information write or
call G. William Climer, Jr. Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 4, Box 166-A, Clover, S.C. 29710 (803-831-2121).

Wrestlers destroy Paladins in SC contest
By PAUL GRIFFITH
Staff Writer

Last Saturday, in Johnston Gym, the Davidson wrestlers annihilated the Paladins of Furman by an overwhelming score of 51-4. In
an obvious understatement, Coach Bob Estock commented, “Everybody wrestled well.” In the first Davidson-Furman confrontation earlier in the year, the
score was quite a bit closer. About that match, Estock said, “We were fighting for our lives, it wasn’t decided
until the final match.” This time, though, “everything clicked.” Estock believes that the wrestlers’Hard work is really paying off now.
"We are putting everything together. Our moves and techniques are sharp and we are stronger," he said. The individual winners
against Furman who pinned their opponents were John Breidenstine (150 pounds), Tim Brotherton (158 pounds), and Bob Kear (167 pounds).
Eric Hill (118 pounds), Scott Smith (134 pounds), and Lance Stokes (142 pounds) won by superior decisions. Hill ran up
a score of 14-0, Smith 17-0, and Stokes 22-5. In the heavier weights, Davidson received points for three forfeits, but
by that time the match was already in the bag. The team leaders in the win/loss category are junior Scott
Smith (15-6), freshman John Breidenstine (14-6-1), and sophomore Van Wagner (6-2). Wagner was out for a few weeks with an
injury. Estock said he should be ready to wrestle again by this weekend. Davidson’s win over Furman gives the wrestlers
a 2-2 Southern Conference record and a 6-5 overall record. Still in store for the Wildcats are matches against Washington
& Lee Friday at 7:30 p.m. in Johnston Gym and, for the Junior Varsity Squad, a match at the University
of North Carolina.

By JIM CROWE
Sports Editor

Davidson swimmers continued their winning ways in Charlotte last weekend with well-executed team efforts and several excellent individual performances. Victories
over William and Mary (68-45) and Washington & Lee (72-39), and the season’s only loss, dealt by a powerful Furman
squad (47-64), brought Davidson’s season record to 8-1. On Friday, Davidson easily overcame William and Mary with a solid team
outing. Davidson swimmers won both the 400-yard free relay (3:22.4) and the 400 medley relay (3:46.9) and placed well in
all individual events. Junior Mike Schremmer took the 1000-yard free (10:15.3) and the 500-yard free (4:56.3), while junior Warren Beck
also took two firsts, winning the 200-yard free (1:50.7) and 200-yard back (2:07.1). Both swam on the winning 400-yard free
relay team.

Senior Eric Reintsema and junior Craig Finger won the 200-yard individual medley (2:06) and junior Keith Riddle won the 200-yard
breast (2:21.4). On Saturday, the Wildcats soundly defeated Washington & Lee. Davidson performed well in this dual meet, Coach Pat
Miller explained, while Washington & Lee did not swim a very strategic lineup. The 'Cats took the 400-yard medley relay
(3:53.34) and had the best time in the 400-yard free relay (3:19.56) in an exhibition run. Mike Schremmer again took
first in the 1000-yard free (10:05.87) and the 500-yard free (5:01.64). His time in the 1000 free set a new
Davidson school record, surpassing the old mark by over eight seconds. Davidson team members took firsts in all individual events
at the 200-yard length. Craig Finger won both the 200-yard individual medley (2:05.51) and the 200-yard fly (2:04.4). Warren Beck
took firsts in the 200-yard free (1:49.7) and the 200-yard back (2:06.9). Riddle was victorious in the 200-yard breast (2:21.17).
In diving competition, sophomore Frank Bright placed well by winning both one-meter and three-meter diving with point scores of 220.4
and 237.75 respectively.

This same performance that defeated Washington & Lee 72-39 left Davidson in the loss column against Furman. Coach Miller said
that Furman’s depth is very hard to beat. Furman took both team relays and seven firsts in eleven individual events.
Craig Finger gave the Wildcats something to cheer about as he maintained his undefeated record in the 200 individual medley.
Schremmer’s record-breaking run was good for a first in the 1000 free. Bright won three-meter diving and Riddle’s 2:21.17 in
the 200-yard breast also placed first. Coach Miller expressed thanks to members of the Davidson community who served as staff
at the meets in Charlotte. This weekend the Wildcats line up for four dual meets.
