THE DAVIDSONIAN
In Veritate Magna Vis
Volume LXX, Number 14
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
January 30, 1981

New director takes over Slater
By TIM WHALEN
Staff Writer

ARA Food Services announced Tuesday that they are transferring College food service director Barry Cheatham. ARA District Manager John Packer said that Wes Goodman, formerly an operations analyst with the ARA service at R.J. Reynolds in Winston-Salem, has replaced Cheatham. Cheatham has not yet been reassigned, according to Packer. The transfer was not definite until Tuesday, but had been under consideration at least since October, Packer added.

“We felt it (the change) was better for all parties concerned,” Packer said. He would not comment further on the reason for the transfer. Cheatham said he would withhold comment on the transfer until he is reassigned. Cheatham has been Davidson’s food service director for two years. Business Manager Bob Currie said, “I appreciate very much the work Barry Cheatham has done. He’s a conscientious person with many good qualities. We wish him well in his career.”

Goodman has worked for ARA for seven years. He said he was at Gardner-Webb College, Brevard College, and UNC-Asheville before working at R.J. Reynolds. Goodman said his emphasis in his work here will be on service. “We’ve got to clean up, upgrade the menus,” he said. He would like to have a greater variety of dishes and a better assortment of fruits. Goodman also plans to increase student involvement in the food service. “I want the students to talk to me. I like to get out and talk to them and find out what they want,” he said, adding, “I can’t solve all the problems overnight, but I can try.”

Ivey cites inadequacies in Slater food service
By ENNY O’BRIANT
Staff Writer

The future of ARA Slater at Davidson is still unclear. Davidson’s food service will move into the new Dining Commons in September. Slater, the College’s food service for over 20 years, will submit a proposal next week for the 1981-82 school year. The College has not sought bids from other food service companies, according to Business Manager Bob Currie. Currie would not say whether or not the administration will ever accept bids from other companies.

On December 2, the SGA voted unanimously to support a proposal that the administration should “actively seek bids from other food/management companies or attempt to establish its own in-house food program.” Freshman Senator Lentz Ivey is concerned with the quality of Davidson’s food service. Ivey doubts that the College could find a new food service before September. “The process of selecting and evaluating food companies and their services is a complex procedure,” he said. “If the College continues to postpone serious consideration of other proposals, I do not feel that a food service changeover for the 1981-82 school year will be possible.”

Ivey, who has worked as an ARA caterer in South Carolina, feels that ARA Slater at Davidson is “definitely lacking in consistency of quality” compared to other services. He also questions whether Slater offers a balanced diet to students on either of the meal plans. Ivey and other SGA members are also interested in raising the meal card allotment. Although Snack Bar prices went up this year, the amount one can purchase with a meal card at the Snack Bar did not. Ivey has met with Currie on several occasions. He said he has given Currie a list of approximately thirty-five people or companies to contact if the College were to decide to take bids from other food services. Ivey also presented Currie with information concerning national trends in food service programs.

Ivey has proposed that the administration reevaluate the Davidson food program and accept bids from other companies. “We may find that our food service is adequate,” Ivey said. “But then again we may discover that a better program is possible.” Currie, ARA Slater representatives, and the student (Continue on page 2)

(David McCurry) Wes Goodman, new food czar. (David McCurry)

Students test vaccine, become guinea pigs
By LISA DRAINE
Staff Correspondent

One hundred fifty Davidson students will soon have the opportunity to help test a bacterial vaccine in a clinical experiment. Participants will beInjected with the vaccine after a preliminary blood test. A second blood test a month later will complete the experiment. Each volunteer will receive $30 for participating. Dr. James Parke of Charlotte Memorial Hospital is conducting the experiment with the help of College physician William Williams. Injections will be administered at the College infirmary. Parke chose Davidson as the site of the experiment because the student body is an accessible group of healthy adults. “As a group, Davidson students would be a lot more understanding and would be able to see the benefits (of such an experiment),” Parke said.

The experiment will test various subtypes of the polyvalent pneumococcal vaccine. Pneumococcus is a bacteria which causes several illnesses, including pneumonia and meningitis. Pneumonia is the fifth leading killer in the United States. The polyvalent pneumococcal vaccine currently on the market contains 14 types of polysaccharide, a multi-sugar compound. The effectiveness of the group 9 polysaccharide is now in question, according to Parke. Parke said that five subtypes of group 9 have been discovered. He is “trying to find which is the best subtype of group 9 to put in the vaccine.” The 150 participants will be divided into six groups of 25, each group receiving a different group 9 subtype in their injection. Parke said he will then be able to “compare which of the pneumococcal subgroups gave the best serum antibody response.” Parke said he hopes “to gain information that will allow re- (Continue on page 2)

Faculty members express concern over computer finances
by DONALD CALDWELL
News Editor

Several faculty members are uneasy over College plans to buy a new computer, a purchase that the faculty approved as a body last October. Much of the concern centers on financing the project. “We're hearing that a purchase is imminent. But there has been no announcement of a major grant to pay for it,” German Professor Hansford Epes said. Epes, who is chairman of the Professional Affairs Committee, added that he is concerned part of the cost for the computer may come out of existing funds rather than new money. The College has applied for a $250,000 grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to help pay for some hardware, software, and the cost of training professors and students to use the new facility. This, however, will not cover the full cost of implementation, which Computer Services Director Robert DeSieno has not yet estimated. “It’s very difficult to give an accurate figure at this point,” DeSieno said.

DeSieno noted that the present computer facility in the basement of the Chambers building will be too small for the new hardware. Moving the computer center will entail costs that cannot be presently estimated, thereby adding to the difficulty of setting a precise total figure, he said. “I anticipate that the costs of hardware and software will run approximately $500,000. Again, as for implementation costs, it’s hard to say.” DeSieno hopes to receive a decision from the NSF by April. He estimates that Davidson has a 20 to 25 percent chance of receiving the funds.

Another faculty concern is access to the College’s present computer. “There has been a reduction in the availability of the computer,” Economics Professor Clark Ross said. “This stems perhaps from a greater concern for security.” Senior Mark Thomas complained that student access to the NCR Century 101 computer, used primarily by the administration, has been reduced in recent months. He also said that students had not been consulted adequately in the development of the expanded computer program. “There needs to be more indirect input through professors.” Thomas sees a great interest among students in the computer field. “In past years there has always been a group of students interested in using the computer. This year, though, the interest surpassed the capabilities of the PDP-8 in terms of memory.” “I think many students have grown frustrated with the present computer's limits, but interest should pick up again when the new computer is in place next year,” he said. The administration announced last Friday the creation of an ad-hoc committee of the faculty to work with DeSieno in planning the integration of the computer into the curriculum.