-6—The Devoidsonian —Little Profs— (Continued from page 1)

black, or even yellow minor professors. He also emphasized that this effort to recruit minor faculty members will be unaffected by the current College policy which limits the height of full-time faculty members to 6 feet 3 inches. College President Samuel Spencer believes the race-blind procedure is unique to Davidson. “Since desegregation began,” he said, “more and more non-white minors have emerged as suitable candidates for positions here. They’re better educated these days.”

According to a Minor Student Coalition member, salaries will be a major obstacle in attracting minor applicants. He said controversy could arise if minor faculty members were hired with significantly greater salaries than current of-age faculty members. Another problem is how to contact potential applicants. “We’ve tried to advertise in publications like Weekly Reader which are read by minor audiences,” Grant said.

Philosophy Department Chairman Earl MacCormac said he recently received 108 applications for a position in the Philosophy Department. None of the applicants was a minor. Grant said the Minor Committee, the MSC, and several current faculty members will provide Zimmermann with a list of outstanding minor scholars who are currently studying in the surrounding school systems, primarily Mecklenburg and Iredell counties.

Spencer said the College would like to hire one or two minor faculty members within the next year or so, but added, “We've gotten a late start on this, so it could take more time than we had originally anticipated. Besides, Duke University has already lured most of the available graduating sixth graders in this area.”

Minor Committee Chairman Cynthia Grant said that, although the College is extremely receptive to minor candidates, the candidates themselves may not be as receptive to the College, primarily because of the dearth of playground equipment. Also, because of the great demand for minor professors, minor applicants often command a salary which is far higher than their normal weekly allowance, a salary which small colleges such as Davidson cannot afford to pay.

“Why just the other day,” Zimmermann said, “I saw some guys from Duke down at Davidson Elementary School.”

(Continued from page 1)

handled the team in a “bad way.” “He treated us like pork brains. He let (assistant coaches) Manning and Nelson walk all over us, and they all belittled us. I detest being belittled,” she pouted.

Conflicts of authority also caused problems for the team. “Epes, Manning, and Nelson could never agree on anything,” Gibert said. “Once, we were asked the average spring equinoctial population of Albanian tree frogs. Epes said 5 million. Manning and Nelson said 17. We didn’t know whom to believe. I felt like saying, ‘Hey, who’s coaching this team, anyway?’”

Ed Trumbull, the team’s top dribbler, also complained of disrespectful treatment. “I don’t mean to bad-mouth the guy now that he’s down, but Epes is a no-good two-bit impecunious jerk. Whenever we blew a toss-up, he’d make us write the question and answer 1,000 times apiece. Hey, like, I’m not a schoolchild, O.K., Hansford?”

When asked why he went to see Spencer, Trumbull said, “Bob wanted some support, so I went. You see, we haven’t the funds to purchase hundreds of supporters, the way the athletes do.”

Tim “Gibert” Newcomb, another senior player, was also aware of friction between Epes and team members. “I don’t see what the big deal is,” Newcomb commented. “Evans isn’t the star—I am. Big deal. I’m tired of this place. Epes is a schmuck, and so’s Bob.”

Epes was Davidson's fifth College Bowl Head Coach in eight years. Three of the others now coach members of the National Experts League. Charles Lloyd, who coached the team before Epes, teaches grammar and agglutinative linguistics to Swedish refugees and dishonorably discharged newspaper editors. 

Julie Gibert

Who will next year’s CollegeBowl Coach be? No one knows, but Spencer said, “We know one thing. He’ll be the best.”

(Continued from page 3)

We're doing our part. The Davidsonian supports the Stealth Administration.

Old stuff

The following article is from — Ivy flicks —

(Continued from page 1)

unique to Davidson.

Bugberry

The following article is from the front page of the October 10, 1940 Davidsonian. We could not resist sharing it to show readers what they were missing news-wise in the roaring 40's.

Do you want to be happy? Do you wake up morose, bitch at your roommate, and glower at your professors? Do you find yourself questioning the meaning of life? Take charge of your life NOW. Buy a GIGGLE PLANT. This newly discovered South American floral beauty has luxuriant dark green foliage and boasts a year-round profusion of furry purple flowers.

Just think how different your life will be when you wake up every morning to your friendly GIGGLE PLANT's smiling face. You will spring lightly out of bed, eager to count how many new flowers your GIGGLE PLANT has to show you. At night, you can tell all your woes to your GIGGLE PLANT and it will listen. The GIGGLE PLANT is kind. It does not talk back. You can look at it, stroke it, tickle yourself with its blossoms. Its roots, dried and mashed into a paste, make an excellent hallucinogenic for those truly bad days.

FREE FOLD-OUT SMILE METER included with each and every GIGGLE PLANT. See how your happiness grows! Tell your friends about it.

Forest Preparatory School in Bugberry, Virginia has adopted a similar policy, while students at Princeton University have picketed their president’s house in order to see Frostburg State University graduate Elia Kazanga’s On the Beachfront.

Yes, I want to win the Happiness Game NOW... Send me __ GIGGLE PLANTS $9.95 each. Mail to: GIGGLE FARM El Salvador 42166

Name
Address
City
State
Zip

The September 21, 1939 Davidsonian. We could not resist sharing it to show readers what they were missing news-wise in the roaring 30's.

YMCA Group Visits Queens

The first “Y” deputation trip of the year was taken on Monday, September 11, by Sherrard Rice, Dave McLean, Joe Gammon, and Bill Boyle. The group had been asked to appear before a joint meeting of the Student Council and the Student Christian Association of Queens-Chicora College, which was then holding its annual retreat.

The subject, which was treated in a panel discussion, was: What a Davidson man thinks the ideal Queens girl should be, or have, in the way of personality, character, types of amusements, and boy and girl relationships. Mr. Pfohl, Mr. McDonald, and Mr. Babcock, of the college music department, and Charles Isley accompanied the “Y” team. Mr. Babcock played a cello solo, and Mr. Pfohl and Mr. Isley led the group in singing.

Joint Picnic Held Here By Camera Fans

Clubs of Davidson and Queens Hold Function On Local Golf Course

Davidson's Camera Club entertained the Queen's College Camera Club with a picnic held at the college golf course on Sunday afternoon, October 6. Approximately ten members of each club were present; and according to Mac Parker, the affair was apparently enjoyed by all. Those attending were: Misses Lib Isaacs, Jane Rankin, “Bill” Stout, Judy Scholl, Sally Pardee, Frances Kerr, Jean Neu, “Dot” Summerville, and Irene Davis, of Queen's College; and Ed Maxwell, Billy Barker, Jack Ramsey, Buck McNeeley, Dave Coblentz, Eli Parker, L. Banker, John Turner, and Mac Parker of Davidson. Chaperones for the occasion were Dr. Douglas Jeter and Dr. Howe.

At the meeting of the Davidson Camera Club on the following Wednesday night, talks were made on the subject “Filters,” by George McDonald and Mac Parker. Plans were also discussed for the annual Photographic Exhibit.