A more modest proposal

Roy Fuller ’83 observes the canine community

It is a melancholy object to those who walk on this great campus or through the Davidson community, when they
see the streets, lawns, and endless brick walkways frequented by mongrel pups, all shaggy and importuning every passer-by for food.
Students, instead of being honest, are forced to deceive Bill Bolding in order to house and sustain these helpless puppies
who will, nevertheless, be abandoned come Christmas break and summer vacation.

I think it is agreed by all parties that the prodigious number of these campus dogs at the heels of
students, faculty, and townspeople is a very great grievance; and therefore whoever could find out a fair, cheap, and easy
method of making these canines useful to everyone would deserve so well of the community as to have his picture
placed in the Davidsoniana room, his plaque placed next to Woodrow Wilson’s at the west end of the campus, and
be mentioned in one of Dr. Davidson’s freshman orientation lectures.

As to my own part, having turned my thoughts for two years upon this important subject, and maturely weighed the
schemes of other projectors, I have found them grossly misguided. I suggest that a puppy be left to depend on
its mother for the first year of its life. During this time the dogs can grow, and everyone can notice
how cute the puppies are. It is at the end of a year that I propose to provide for them
in such a manner as instead of wanting food and shelter for the rest of their lives, they shall on
the contrary contribute to the feeding, and partly to the clothing, of many.

There is likewise another great advantage to my scheme, that it will prevent the constant copulation practices of many canines
on the holy ground in front of Chambers (which I am sure causes several nineteenth-century Presbyterian ministers to turn in
their graves), and the horrid practice of neutering which is expensive and causes the animals to live such unfulfilled lives.

Those dogs with specific owners who feed them, groom them, provide shelter and provide health care do not concern me.
It is the problem of campus dogs without full-time owners that I address. This latter group of canines is a
burden to society. While dogs do provide a means of transportation in Alaska and a means of security in sheep
country, our campus dogs only compete with each other, thereby depleting their food supplies.

I shall now therefore humbly propose my own thoughts, which I hope will not be liable to the least objection.

I have been assured by a very knowing Japanese gourmet of my acquaintance in Tokyo, that a young healthy pup
well nursed is at a year old a succulent, savory, and delectable dish, whether sautéed and simmered, braised or basted;
and I have no doubt that it is equally scrumptious when served in a casserole or fricassee.

I do therefore humbly offer it to public consideration, that only four puppies (two male, two female) may be reserved
for breeding each year while the rest at the end of the year be offered for sale to local eating
establishments. I suggest the Y-Student Corps head up this project. Every spring, the Y will conduct a lottery to fairly
determine which pups will remain on campus to mooch and procreate. The Y will then hold an auction to sell
the rest to the highest bidder. A plump pup will make an especially exquisite dish if marinated in orange juice
and soy sauce or served with béarnaise sauce. I expect the Peregrine House and Gus’s Restaurant will participate in the
bidding with a few eating houses joining in. The proceeds would go to CROP and to the Joan Avery Society
at the San Diego Zoo.

To avoid waste, the fur skins of the animals will be used by the Y Corps to make coats for
needy families in the area. I should think Dalmatian fur would make a wonderful car coat, and Irish setter fur
would make a marvelous lining for jackets.

I think the advantages by the proposal which I have made are obvious and many, as well as of the
highest importance.

For first, as I have already observed, it would eliminate the painful dog’s life led by so many of these
mongrels. The four remaining dogs would have little competition for food and shelter.

Secondly, it would reduce the number of dog fights and unplanned sex education classes held on Chambers lawn.

Thirdly, it would provide healthy competition between small businesses. Peregrine and Gus’s would be encouraged to continue their competition by
offering the new delicacy.

Fourthly, it would offer the new delicacy to the entire community.

Fifthly, it would provide money for CROP and the Joan Avery Society.

Sixthly, it would provide stylish and practical clothing for the needy and a new undertaking for the Y Corps.

I can think of no objection that could possibly be raised against this proposal. Nevertheless, I am not so violently
bent upon my own opinion to reject proposals by any wise freshman who knows the Davidson Alma Mater and Fred’s
last name. Of course, the proposal must be equally simple and beneficial.

I profess, in the sincerity of my heart, that I have not the least personal interest in promoting this project,
having no other motive than the good of the Davidson community, by encouraging small business, feeding the hungry, providing for
animals in San Diego, and relieving the pain these poor mutts have suffered. I will receive no profits from this
proposal, excluding the possibility that, as a member of Patterson Court, I might get to sample this delicacy at a
future meal.
