2—The Davidsonian—January 30, 1981

News at a Glance

Melanie Mattson recently became the new music director of WDAV. Mattson has been an announcer for two classical music stations in Minnesota. A graduate of the University of Minnesota and the New England Music Conservatory, Mattson is also a freelance bassoonist and plans to be active in Charlotte musical organizations. “I’m a jazz buff besides, of course, classical music,” she said. She said she is excited about WDAV because “it's a growing radio station in an area with a lot of cultural potential.”

Mattson first became acquainted with North Carolina last summer, when she was a bassoon soloist with the School of Arts international tour group in Winston-Salem. Mattson is WDAV's announcer, 4-6 p.m. The College is still looking for a station director for WDAV, according to Communications Director John Slater. The new director will succeed Ed McIntyre, who resigned this week.

College President Samuel Spencer will hold Open-End meetings in his office in the future, according to Assistant to the President Ginger Evans. Meetings were in the Conversation Pit in the past. Spencer wants students to become familiar with the President's office, Evans said. Open office meetings will be at 10 one Tuesday a month. Upcoming meetings are February 10, March 17, and April 14.

The U.S. Postal Service is now looking for a site for the construction of the new Davidson post office. The new, larger facility will probably be in the downtown area. It will be government-owned. The postal service leases the present post office building from the College. Construction of the new post office will probably begin in six to eight months, according to the postal service real estate office in Atlanta.

The Davidson College Bowl B-team took second place in the Charlotte Consortium tournament Tuesday night. The Davidson team beat Belmont Abbey, Sacred Heart, and Winthrop, but lost to tournament champion UNC-C by 15 points. B-team members are Brad Mullis, Gordon Turnbull, John Eglin, and Richard Page. Both the A and B-team will compete this weekend in the UNC-C Invitational tournament.

Vaccine (Continued from page 1)

formulation of the polyvalent pneumococcal vaccine that is currently on the market. The improved vaccine “has the potential to benefit people around the world,” he added. Adverse reactions to the injection should be minimal, Parke said. They could include local redness and soreness of the injection site for less than 48 hours, low-grade fever (less than 101 degrees F), and a small bruise at the injection site. Interested students may pick up an information sheet in the Dean of Students’ office or at the infirmary. Volunteers should return it to the Dean’s office or mail it to Parke.

Ivey (Continued from page 1)

Food Service Committee holds bimonthly meetings. The Committee, which consists of interested students and one representative from each freshman hall, will meet next Tuesday at 10 a.m. At this meeting, Currie hopes to “take care of complaints about the current food service” and gather “additional thoughts for next year’s program.” Currie said that any comment on whether or not ARA Slater will remain at Davidson another year would be mere speculation. Currie suggested that students direct their questions about the food service to the Food Service Committee.

now features sandwiches to go on homemade pita bread
128 S. Main Street
892-7521

Resident Advisor applications now available
By KEITH HEARLE
Staff Correspondent

The Housing Office is now accepting applications for next year’s Resident Advisor program. Applications are available in the Housing Office and are due February 9. Interviews will be held after Spring break. Selections are made on the basis of the interview, academic standing, and three references.

The RA program began this year as a supplement to the House Manager system. Two RAs from the junior and senior classes live in each upperclass dormitory. Their job is to maintain the physical appearance of the dorm and to maintain a livable atmosphere. This year’s RAs trained before classes began at the College-owned cottage in Little Switzerland, located north of Asheville. The duties of the RA include conducting room check-in and check-out, attending weekly meetings with the Housing Director, maintaining fire equipment, enforcing housing regulations, and counseling students with roommate problems or other difficulties. RAs receive $100 per term and deduct one half the double

By ANNE GOODWIN
Assistant Features Editor

Don’t despair, there is an alternative to Slater: cooking for yourself. With just a little ingenuity and minimal effort, the possibilities are almost limitless. Since no meals are served on Saturday evenings on Patterson Court, several groups of upperclassmen meet independently to cook. One of these, which calls itself the Davidson College Dining Club (DCDC), specializes in theme dinners, ranging from a Hawaiian luau to a Christmas feast. The group considers itself a full-fledged organization and even nominated a representative to the Homecoming Court, which says something about the importance ofGood food at Davidson. Sophomore Jeff Jordan, a member of DCDC, said the group consists of about five sophomores with varying cooking skills. Their differences in ability can produce some interesting results when one person turns a job over to a less skilled member. Jordan said one advantage of cooking is that the meals don’t cost much—only $1.75-$3.50 per week. In addition, group shopping is an adventure. He mentioned that a number of cooking facilities are available since most eating houses allow members to use the kitchens on Saturdays, and there are kitchens in the basements of both Cannon and Belk dorms. “For the fun and the friendship and the money, you can’t beat it,” Jordan said.

Another group, the Cosmic Cuisine Club, cooks at ATO each week. According to sophomore John Krotchko, one person fixes a specialty, sometimes ethnic, for the rest of the six-member group. The decision to have one person cook came about after discovering that while cooking together, some people would follow the recipe and others would dispense with it, resulting in disaster. Now that only one person cooks, Krotchko said, “the method may be a little bizarre, but it always comes out good in the end.”

If, however, you don’t have access to a kitchen, never fear. Your room can be a marvelous place to cook. Consider the case of juniors John Siman and Dave Banks, who advocate cooking in a popcorn popper. Their specialties include sautéed mushrooms and a mixture of tomatoes, cucumbers, onions, mozzarella cheese, and garlic. Another of their inventions is sludge, a repulsive-looking but delicious drink. The recipe calls for “1 teaspoon instant creamer, 1½ teaspoons instant coffee, 1 teaspoon brown sugar, 1 teaspoon Nestle’s Quik, 1 teaspoon butter, and one jigger dark rum mixed together in the bottom of a cup. Add hot water and stir.”

Another possibility is the trusty hot pot, which can be used in a variety of ways, ranging from boiling water for tea to making cheese fondue. Freshmen Stephanie Bruck, Charlie Lovett, and I have worked together to create such dishes as chicken curry and Mexican-style beans in our hot pot. “The real imagination comes in the grocery store,” Lovett said. Since only one type of cooking can be done in a hot pot, canned foods are helpful. The correct combination of cans is what makes good food. For example, a can of chicken soup, a can of mushroom soup, some canned chicken, a can of mixed oriental vegetables, and liberal amounts of curry. The only disadvantage to cooking in a hot pot is that the tea just may taste like garlic the next day. Additional equipment like a toaster oven or a tabletop grill opens up more possibilities. With a toaster oven, almost anything is possible, though my personal favorites are Quiche Lorraine and chocolate chip cookies.

The program has proved to be effective in relieving some pressure from the Housing Office, according to Housing Director Bill Bolding. The RAs handle complaints which normally were directed to Bolding’s office. The RAs said they find themselves under some constraint, however, because Davidson’s housing regulations are not as strictly defined as at other schools, and because they have seldom been effectively enforced in the past. Davidson’s RAs said they find it necessary to soften the stereotyped image of a police-like student who consistently “writes up” those who violate iron-clad housing regulations. The RAs seek to handle disciplinary problems themselves. It is sometimes necessary to bring them to the attention of the Dean of Students, however. The RAs are peer counselors and are available to inform students about services offered by the College. Bolding said students have not often taken advantage of RA counseling because of the novelty of the program. As the program continues, Bolding hopes more students will seek the RAs’ advice.

Bolding said of the program, “The RAs have done an excellent job this year considering the fact that it’s a brand-new program. I’m very interested in attracting highly qualified applicants to continue to strengthen and expand it into the new dorms.” Next year, Bolding plans to invite speakers and hold seminars in dorm lounges. The RAs will schedule and conduct some of these events. Topics under consideration include alcohol awareness, planned parenthood, and job hunting. Recently, the RAs attended a housing conference at Mars Hill College. The RAs from Davidson, Furman, and Mars Hill discussed various aspects of dormitory life including the prevention of damages, the needs of women students, and leadership skills. David Rhodes, an RA in Little Dorm, said, “The job is demanding, but I enjoy working with my residents. The RAs receive some good benefits and develop skills which will definitely help them after Davidson.” This year’s RAs are David Rhodes, Peter Hairston, Bill Dascombe, John Chung, Julie Webber, Anne Guerard, Bruce Wallace, and Keith Hearle. (David McCurry)