Race for Davidsonian — Jeb Benedict opposes Stewart Cauley

Sophomore Stewart Cauley will be running against sophomore Jeb Benedict in Tuesday's election for the next Davidsonian editor. Junior John
Robbins signed up to run with Jeb, but he decided to drop out of the campaign Thursday night, after this
interview was conducted. John’s comments have been left in the article to provide the correct context for the other two
candidates' remarks. The following is an abridged transcription of a taped interview with the candidates. Some of the answers are
presented here in a different order than that in which they appeared in the interview.

Davidsonian: Why did you decide to run for editor?

Stewart: I see three reasons. One, I like reading a good newspaper, and if that means editing it myself, I’m
willing to do that. Two, I think I’m qualified enough to do it. I think I can handle running the
paper, and I think I have the skills to put out a good paper.

John: We decided to run for editors because it gives us a chance to have some input into the newspaper,
to see our views and our way of handling things, to express that we would like it to be balanced.

Jeb: What we wanted to do was sort of reorient the paper to a balanced point of view.

Davidsonian: When did you decide to run?

Stewart: About the middle of last term.

Jeb: We talked about it as early as October. The commitment to it came just recently, from seeing who else
was running.

Davidsonian: What qualifies you above anyone else to run the Davidsonian? We would like a concise statement of where you
stand and why you are the best man or team for the job.

Stewart: I know how this paper runs. I think I can handle almost all the technical things and can handle
writing and research. I think I have enough people who work for me and with me to put out a
good paper. I have the time and dedication. I would not have any conflicts in the office. I am willing
to listen to any sort of views.

Jeb: John and I think that with our experience and our dedication to Davidson, as opposed to our own ideas
about what is right or righteous — we think it is our attitude.

Stewart: You said you were not worried about what is right, but what is right for Davidson?

Jeb: Yes, I’m not saying that we’re not worried about what is right — but we are both committed to
this school and the spirit of it. I talked to Dean Terry about this — being actively concerned about the
community health of Davidson College and doing our best to maintain it without polarizing students from students, students from administration,
or students from faculty on certain questions like tenure which is pretty touchy business. The students have only limited say.
Tenure for professors, the Honor Code. I think it should report news accurately, analyze this news without doing it subjectively,
and that the editorial should...be separate from the news. I think the newspaper should provide entertainment, and it should also
educate people. This is something I really think it should do. For example, what are good movies to see, good
books to read. Jeb Stewart and I are quite a bit different in that we [John and Jeb] feel the
paper ought to reflect opinions rather than stamp it. I don’t think the paper should take a specific stance. It
shouldn’t be a mouthpiece of anyone in particular. It should be a balance. On any issue, you should have a
two-sided approach to it. I also think that we should be very, very cautious about going into some areas where
there should be some judgment by two people. It makes things more efficient.

Jeb: We think that a team is a better approach. Two individuals of different backgrounds and sources of common sense
keep each other in line. Two people can handle the job more responsibly than one. It will be easier for
the editor to be more accessible.

Davidsonian: What role do you think the Davidsonian should play in the College community?

Stewart: I think the editorial staff or editor should take a stand on issues, and make statements like, “These things
are important for us.” Things like academics, getting a new President for the College (President Spencer is due to retire
in a few years), and issues like athletics.

Davidsonian: Stewart, why are you running by yourself? [and, to John and Jeb] why are you running as a team?

Stewart: In the past, there have been problems with two people having equal responsibility. I think that if you have
one person who will handle large amounts of the organization without personality conflicts, it is probably better to run it
this way. It is important to have a unified direction, and that is a lot easier having one person with
a lot of support of the staff than it is having two persons.

John: It is a shared workload, and not as time-consuming for either of us, although there may be some duplication.

Davidsonian: Have you worked together before?

Jeb: With the Phi Society, but as journalism goes, no. So much the better, so that my views are different
from his views, and we can be sure that the paper will not reek with particular attitudes.

Davidsonian: How much time do you expect to put into the editorship?

Stewart: I can’t see spending less than 40 hours a week, and I have an equal commitment from [sophomore] Brian
Butler. In the past, it has been much more than that.

Jeb: It goes back to how you organize your time. The way we look at it, it may take ten
hours a week for both of us. You never know, since there are two of us, it makes it that
much better. We have figured how much time we can put into this without failing out. We believe that with
two of us, we can swing it much better—even if it gets to one week that we have to spend
ten or twelve hours a week each on it, or more.
