Nick's Flicks

With the absence of any Pop Films this weekend on account of the free beer and circuses of Spring Frolics,
the pining cinephile must wait until Wednesday the fifteenth for Fine Films’ showing of *In the Heat of the Night*.
Starring Sidney Poitier and Rod Steiger and dating from the days when director Norman Jewison still pretended to have a
social conscience, this powerful law-and-order drama manages to do considerably more than Nick Graham the racial tensions underlying the relationship
of a white policeman to a black citizen, which is the feature’s point of departure and which gained it considerable
acclaim in the sixties. As the drama progresses, the exploration of the two men’s personalities and backgrounds leaves far behind
the question of skin color to produce an encounter of quite genuine human power which these days has to be
regarded as the film’s saving grace. Relentless stuff, it is worth the effort required to see it and contains two
fine performances by the protagonists.

*In Love at 8 p.m.*

On Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday the Visulite is showing a double bill of films by the much-feted German director Rainer-Werner
Fassbinder. From my experience of his films so far I’m afraid I tend to regard Herr Fassbinder as one of
the most tedious individuals ever to brandish a camera at an actor, and his films sadly reflect the personality of
their maker. However, *The Marriage of Maria Braun* is said by aficionados to be one of his very best, so
I shall be going along, hoping to have my prejudices dispelled. The story of a woman’s struggle to make something
of her life during the post-war economic boom, the film apparently deals incisively with the aftermath of Nazism and the
embrace of rampant materialism.

Also on Tuesday, another class film, *Long Day’s Journey Into Night* is being shown in Love at 7:30 p.m. Apparently,
it is a very fine version of O’Neill’s unremittingly bleak view of the human condition and I can do little
more than recommend it on hearsay evidence. This alone, however, suggests that it should appeal to a slightly wider audience
than those whose GPAs depend upon seeing it. Go along anyway, these things are free.

Come see our new Izod Lacoste cotton shirts, jackets, and rain suits and Levi Jeans, straights or boots — always
only $14.99 and — come browse and see our campus wear. You'll be glad.

John Mock & Son
Downtown Mooresville

Take a break!
Motel in Ocean Drive. Low Spring Break rates start at $14. Call 808/249-2721 for reservations.

New stable boasts 14 horses
By SARA WHEELER
Staff Correspondent

If you’re like most people, one scary experience on horseback or maybe just one look at the half-ton creatures made
you opt for the safety of your own two feet. Riding horses, you might argue, is expensive, time-consuming, and dangerous.
Besides, the only people who ride have been riding for years, so why start now?

Kathleen Emmert, general manager of the new college stables at the lake campus, is trying to correct misconceptions like these.
For $48 a term, Emmert and her team of instructors will teach you to ride. I spent last Saturday at
the stables talking to Emmert and enjoying the scenery and atmosphere. I was greeted at the gate by Emmert’s two
large and very friendly dogs: a young German Shepherd named Boomer and a Newfoundland called, very appropriately, Bear.

The stables look new and stark but nevertheless inviting, surrounded by the green of the woods and pastures and the
gray-blue of the lake. As I walked through the tack room (horse cant for bridle room), I noticed the well-worn
leather of the bridles and saddles and the delightful smell of hay and warm spring air. Peering at me from
their stalls were some of the graceful creatures that inspire love—or fear—in humankind. Most of the equipment and 12 of
the 14 horses, I learned, were donated by various people. The other two horses belong to students.

I asked about the horses and was immediately deluged with information and prejudices. Warlock, I learned, had been sold three
weeks ago and no one seemed to bemoan his loss. Apparently, he had a rather fiery temperament: “He thought he
was a stallion,” one girl noted.even though he was a gelding (a castrated male). Warlock dictated “who could eat with
who and got his choice of the mares.” Horse society is apparently not very democratic. Baron is now the top
horse, with Tar as his preferred consort. Ralph ranked as a general favorite, although Sportman, a little pony who lives
in the pasture, is apparently the official mascot. I was fascinated by the horses’ names, which include Magic, Honey, Nirvana,
Flicka, and Smokey. Before I talked to Emmert, I already knew of the enthusiasm and dedication that veteran riders have
for their sport. My questions, however, concerned the novice, who is interested but afraid to get involved. Emmert told me
that about 53 Davidson students have enrolled this spring. Twenty-five community people also take riding lessons. These additional lessons are
necessary for the stable to pay its bills, although the facilities were really built exclusively for Davidson students.

Emmert stressed that the program could accommodate students at all levels of proficiency. There are courses at the “Beginner,” “Advanced
Beginner,” “Intermediate,” and “Advanced” levels. Soon each rider in the program will be given a rating which will govern his
use of the stables. A “C” rating, which a novice could receive after 10 weeks, will allow him to ride
at a walk or trot in the ring when the stables are open, provided there is at least one other
person there. A “B” rating, obtainable within a year, will allow the rider to use the surrounding trails without supervision.
An “A” rider can teach, go to fox hunts, and can even lease a horse on a long-term basis. Emmert
estimated that it would take about two years for a beginner to become an instructor if he rode once a
week. To reduce the cost of lessons, beginners can clean the stables, clear trails, build jumps, or paint, while more
experienced riders can teach other students.

Dangers in riding, Emmert told me, are “very real.” Riders occasionally do fall off the horse or get stepped on.
These experiences, however, are usually more frightening than physically injurious, and almost always result from a careless mistake on the
part of the rider. Attitude is therefore important. Emmert said she would rather teach complete novices who are fearful but
willing to ask “millions of questions” than daredevils who think they know everything. I asked one rider why there were
so few males among the students in the program. She said five guys did appear once, but only to collect
manure. The manure was to be added to various other pleasant substances and thrown on “somebody’s house.” Since this incident
strangely coincided with the weekend of pledge games, I decided that it resulted from something other than the love of
equestrian studies, and I dropped the subject. However, Emmert told me that guys do tend to be hesitant about riding.
She attributed this to fear of the embarrassing stage of “klutziness” which every beginner must go through. Davidson men, she
added, make wonderful progress after they catch on and can learn as fast as she can talk.

This spring the stables will host a Gymkhana. This is an informal horse show featuring events like an obstacle course
in which two riders—generally novices—alternately lead and ride a horse. The event will give interested students a feel for the
sport and a chance to sign up for fall lessons. There will also be a professional show at the stables
the same day, so the students may glimpse what real riding is like. Lessons are taught by qualified Davidson students,
including Sallie Summey, Rosie Whitesides, Betty Eborn, Ann Williams, and Lyn Bolen. Bolen and Williams are hoping to form a
riding club. The club would travel to intercollegiate horse shows, which have events in everything from trotting to jumps. Davidson’s
riding program has great potential, according to the riders. All it needs is more students.

Another outstanding job by BARGER CONSTRUCTION
Post Office Box 30
384 North Main St.
Mooresville, NC 28115
