The new Chaplain Charlie Summers returns to Davidson: by Mary Shaffer ‘85

In the basement of the Union, there is a chaplain named Charlie. The Rev. Charles A. Summers, a 1972 Davidson
graduate, returned to the college in August to serve as College Chaplain. Rev. Summers comes from a five-year pastoral ministry
at the Sixth Presbyterian Church in Washington, D.C., where he served an integrated congregation. He gained national recognition for his
financing of the church’s budget and appeared on the NBC-TV “Today” show to discuss his work. Rev. Summers explains he
was performing no financial wizardry, but rather: “Just reducing expenses in a way that helped be compassionate to the poor.”

At Davidson, Rev. Summers will serve as chaplain to students but will have no financial responsibilities. Emphasizing that he is
chaplain for all the students and not just the Presbyterians, he declared he is “here for anybody who needs me.”
While he will occasionally preach at Davidson College Presbyterian Church and hold a weekly worship service there, Rev. Summers is
not officially linked to the church. He wants “to be very ecumenical and work with all the local congregations.”

Filling a position vacant last year, Rev. Summers considers his new job a “continuation of the pastoral ministry.” His involvement
here will include organizing workshops, study groups, contemporary events, hunger projects, and assisting in the Y Student Corps and Davidson
Christian Fellowship, as well as holding regular student worship. He hopes to become closely involved with the students. World peace
and hunger are two issues with which Summers is particularly concerned. He hopes he “can encourage students to think seriously
about these problems and develop sensitivity” to such issues as the arms race and over-consumption. He stresses the importance of
Davidson students’ awareness of worldwide problems because Davidson graduates “go all over.”

Davidson alumnus Rev. Summers matriculated at Davidson in 1968 as a pre-med major. He earned his master's at Louisville Presbyterian
Seminary. Since his ordination in 1976, his ministerial experience has included serving as a street evangelist in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, as
well as working in various capacities at the Springfield Presbyterian Church in Jacksonville, Florida. Reflecting on the change in Davidson
since he attended—“more buildings, young professors, more partying, women”—Rev. Summers remarks, “it all seems an improvement to me,” adding that
it creates a more relaxed atmosphere.

Rev. Summers is married (he met his wife Marcia on JYA in Marburg) and has three children. A video game
nut and avid lover of ping-pong, he wants students to know he’s here for them and added, “I’m new—I can
use all the help I can get.”

The new minister Frank Stith arrives at the Davie by Roy Fuller ‘83

The Rev. M. Frank Stith arrived in Davidson in June to serve as the new minister at Davidson United Methodist
Church. He is replacing the Rev. M. Bob Combs, who was the church’s minister for the past six years. Rev.
Stith received his A.B. and Masters of Divinity from Duke and is presently working towards a Doctorate of Ministry from
Drew University. He is a native of Winston-Salem and has most recently served a Methodist church in Valdese, North Carolina.
His wife Mary Elizabeth is a certified medical assistant for a doctor in Concord.The Rev. and Mrs. Stith have two
children. He and his family have had little problem adjusting to the Davidson community. “We have been very warmly received
in the Davidson area,” he said, “and we really appreciate it.” He feels that his early summer arrival helped him
adjust to his pastoral duties. “I got here the last week in June. That gave me time to prepare for
the onslaught of the students and get to know my own congregation a little bit. It was a good breather—an
opportunity to know who my members are before the congregation got so full that I couldn’t tell who was who.”

Students turn out

When September arrived in Davidson and with it a whole crowd of collegians, Rev. Stith was pleasantly surprised to see
many of them flocking to church. “I am really shocked how many students come. In my day, we didn’t go
to church that much. We had the Duke chapel, and there were always these speakers coming from outside on special
occasions. The music was always fantastic. Still, I can’t imagine any of us going to a small church like this.”

Rev. Stith is excited about the number of students interested in the church. “The church is full when the students
are here. They just come stringing across the campus. It’s great. I’m glad so many students seem to feel at
home in our church. I think it is crucial that you have a sense of belonging to a church. You
need to feel like you're part of it.”

The influx of returning students has not caused Rev. Stith to readjust his approach to his sermons. “With school just
having started, I’m still feeling my way along, but so far students have responded to my sermons. I tend to
preach to the church about building up the church, but apparently what I’ve been saying they have been able to
apply to their lives too. That’s what I pick up from them, so I feel comfortable.”

Many Davidson students are extensively involved in different facets of the church’s activities. “We certainly invite students to plug in
at any level they want to,” Reverend Stith explained. “We have kids teaching in the church school. We have a
bunch signed up to keep the nursery. We’ve got a couple of students that work with the children’s choir. Some
work with MYF [Methodist Youth Fellowship]. They are a great resource for our church.”

Sunday school

A Sunday school class is offered for college students. It meets at 10 a.m. in the student lounge. The class
has a discussion format and the current topic is “The Life and Teaching of Jesus.” Rev. Stith hopes students will
take advantage of the class.

He concluded with some perspectives on his function and his intentions for the future. “As far as my interests in
the church, I see my role basically as an ‘enabler,’ enabling the church to take hold of its own ministry
and not doing the ministry of the church for the church. What I have in mind is to find what
God has in mind for Davidson Methodist Church and how our church can fulfill our goal.”
