Friday, 18 September 1981

Davidson gets VP for Development
by Bill Swift ’83

After more than a year of waiting, Davidson has a new vice-president of Development: Dr. Jack W. Powers. Dr. Powers comes to Davidson from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, where he served as vice-president of external affairs, director of development, and a chemistry professor. The college has been searching for someone to fill this position since Powers’s predecessor, Duane Dittman, resigned after the 1979-80 school year.

Dr. Powers's first contact with Davidson was during his visits to the College between 1969 and 1979 while he was working as a visiting scientist for the National Center for Atomic Research Corporation. In 1979, he went to work for Rensselaer because he was interested in returning to an academic environment. Last summer he contracted with Davidson to take the vice-presidency for development. Until last week he was still under contract and working for Rensselaer.

Dr. Powers does not believe his initial administrative involvement with Davidson will hinder his effectiveness in performing his job. He is not an alumnus, but he said, “I plan to become acquainted with as many of the alumni as possible.” Powers thinks he will be most effective working with corporations, the largest contributors to the endowment, because he is an expert on corporate fund-raising.

This year Powers will make long-term plans concerning the College’s 1987 Program’s upcoming five-year fund-raising drive. Projects still to be completed under the 1987 Program include a new athletics facility and a mathematics wing for Martin Science Building. He said, “According to a preliminary analysis, the Program will greatly exceed its proposed goals.” He also is designing a program that will involve students in the development office so that the transition from students to alumni is smoother.

The College expects Dr. Powers to coordinate the areas of corporate and alumni gifts, special resources, and the 1987 Program, as well as to develop new sources of revenue.

James “Jimmy” Williams has been appointed assistant director of admissions and assistant dean of students. Mr. Williams will also act as advisor to the Black Student Coalition (BSC). He replaces George Williams, who served in the admissions office and was the BSC advisor. Mr. Williams is looking forward to combining his admissions work with his counseling duties as the BSC advisor and the assistant dean of students. Having worked in admissions before, he admitted that it was “very frustrating to work so hard with the students before admission and then not hear from them again.”

Both Director of Admissions John Griffith and Dean of Students Will Terry thought the new assistant dean of students position would add a needed link between the admissions department and the dean of students office. This way, Griffith said, the admissions officer can follow the progress of a student after he or she has been accepted. Dr. Griffith says that he expects Mr. Williams will spend about 80 percent of his time with the Admission Office and 20 percent with the Dean’s Office, but his schedule will be flexible.

Both Dr. Griffith and Dean Terry see this appointment as filling a gap in student relations. Terry said that in his role as counselor and advisor to the BSC, Mr. Williams will develop a rapport with minority students on campus and help them deal with the “Davidson experience” from their point of view. Similarly, he says, Mr. Williams will be able to help the community as a whole to better understand the situation of blacks on campus. Mr. Williams said he...also hopes to play a role in recruiting qualified minorities for admissions. Mr. Williams served with a program in New York City called “A Better Chance” which recruited qualified minority students for a local preparatory school. He sees these contacts with secondary schools as an advantage for the Dean’s office in finding black students qualified for admission to Davidson. He pointed out that this is not his “main or focal duty” as an admissions officer, however. Mr. Griffith said, “seeking out qualified minorities is the role of the admissions office as a whole. He [Williams] was hired because he is qualified for the job and we feel he can add to the quality of the admissions staff.” As to whether his appointment is a commitment by the College to hire more minorities, Mr. Williams said, “I am encouraged by it. I haven’t been at Davidson long enough to see how the community will react, but I feel that Davidson College has a serious commitment to the hiring of minorities.”

Williams is a graduate of Middlebury College in Vermont with a B.A. in American History. He has worked several other jobs in the areas of admissions and student counseling, including three years serving as an Assistant Director of Admissions at Brown University in Rhode Island.

SGA beginning intra-campus mail system

In an effort to provide a more efficient means of delivering letters on campus, the SGA is sponsoring an intra-campus mail service to begin operation this fall. The service will be open to all school personnel, including staff, faculty, administration, and students. The rules in using the system are simple:

1. Place all mail in an envelope with an address which includes the name of the student, the dorm, and the room number.
2. To send large bundles, separate the letters and group them into piles which will go to individual dorms.
3. Deposit mail on the first floor of the Chambers building, adjacent to the admissions office.

Students will sort the mail and distribute it to the resident advisors in each hall. These advisors will make the final delivery. SGA vice-president Chip Hurley, who heads up the operation, expects off-campus students will more than likely receive mail through regular postal services.

After knocking the idea around for quite a while, the SGA will finally apply the mail service this fall. Primarily due to the efforts of vice-president Hurley and senator Tracy Thompson, the plan began to take form last spring. Union director C. Shaw Smith and housing director Bill Bolding cooperated as well. According to SGA president Chip Legerton, the system will allow “cheaper, quicker, and more efficient communication.” Vice-president Hurley expressed a desire to know the opinions of the student body, however, and welcomes any suggestions which would improve the system.

The students who will sort and deliver the mail have not yet been selected. However, admissions director Dr. John Griffith and Bill Bolding will discuss utilizing the services of the work-study students in implementing the program. Dr. Griffith maintained that certain guidelines for the job must be set before consideration, but was sure the administration would cooperate with the proposal.

Welcome freshmen, upperclassmen

Cornelius Hairstyling will open September 30 at Lake Norman Village, 19400 Statesville Rd., left, just past Hardees.

Cornelius Hairstyling
P.O. Box 606
Cornelius, NC 28031