| 2—The Davidsonian—March 27, 1981

News at a Glance

Senior Blaine Sanders has won one of four Patrick Wilson Scholarships to Vanderbilt University Law School. The scholarships are for
$10,000 for each of the three years of law school. Sanders is a history major from Johnson City, Tennessee. He
is the former president of SAE and a member of the varsity baseball team.

Letters of acceptance will be mailed to next year’s freshmen April 1 according to Director of Admissions John Griffith. The
class of 1985 will consist of 124 women and 228 men. Griffith said this year the College accepted 35 percent
of its applicants, down from 43 percent a few years ago. This acceptance rate is comparable to schools such as
Williams, Princeton, and Dartmouth.

Sociology Professor Mike Dailey is warning professors to check the results of their ICES faculty evaluation forms after noticing a
discrepancy in his own. Dailey found that seven questions which he had not asked appeared on the final tally of
his Sociology 115 evaluation forms from fall term. Six questions he had asked did not appear on the printout. Every
professor selects 26 questions from a master list of 600. The faculty voted to institute the ICES standardized evaluation system
a year ago. Results are used by the administration in evaluating professors for tenure and contract renewal. After checking with
the University of Illinois, which computes ICES results, Dailey found the discrepancy stemmed from a typing error. Dailey’s name had
been misspelled on one of the forms and this had caused the computer to print some of the results of
Dailey’s Sociology 101 course on his Sociology 115 printout sheet. The University of Illinois recomputed the results and sent them
back to Davidson. Nancy Arnette of the Vice President of Academic Affairs’ Office said this is the first error reported
in the year the ICES forms have been in use. Dailey, whose two-year teaching contract is up for renewal this
year, said professors should check their evaluation results more closely. He still thinks the ICES system is a good one,
however. Arnette said officials at University of Illinois had told her they probably failed to catch the error because they
were training a new technician when Dailey’s forms were processed. Arnette agreed that faculty members should check over their evaluation
forms but added that she doesn’t anticipate any more errors. “They have a good system of checks,” Arnette said, “and
they couldn’t believe they didn’t catch this error.”

EDITH PARKER

Sign up in the Dean of Students’ office by Tuesday at 5 p.m. for the offices of class senators, student
solicitor, defense advisor, review board, honor council, student conduct council, and the Council on Campus and Religious Life. Elections will
be Tuesday, April 6.

WBTV’s channel 3 will air a discussion on Sunday, March 29 between North Carolina officials, Duke Power representatives, and antinuclear
activists on the question of nuclear safety. In Touch with Nuclear Safety will be broadcast at 6:30 p.m. WBTV’s Community
Affairs Director Ken Koontz will host the discussion.

F&M plans to alter Hattie’s Night
By FRANCES PALMER
Assistant News Editor

Fannie and Mabel’s (F&M) eating house decided Monday to continue to sponsor an annual Hattie’s Night party. The party’s format
will be modified to improve security. The decision followed the shooting of sophomore Joe Leman by a construction worker at
Hattie’s Night March 12. Modifications include moving the location of the party, limiting it to Davidson students, and changing the
date. The shooting incident may lead to greater precautions at parties all over Patterson Court. Dean of Students Will Terry
said he and Business Manager Bob Currie plan to meet with Patterson Court house officers sometime within the next two
weeks to discuss “the whole business of security on the court.” “It’s not just a Hattie’s Night problem,” Terry said.

F&M President Joni Seehorn said the site of future Hattie’s Nights will have controlled entrances with student identification cards required
for admittance. No final decision has been made as to whether students will be able to bring guests. One possible
location is the football field, according to Terry. The stadium gates would ensure controlled entrances and exits, similar to what
is done for dances in the gym. The location’s size would also provide for more orderly dispensing of the beer,
he added. The date of Hattie’s Night will also be changed from the first Thursday night of spring term to
sometime later in the year. A possible date is April 27, the actual anniversary of the burning of Hattie’s bar.
According to Seehorn, a later date would cut down the number of out-of-town students attending the party. Because Hattie’s Night
now falls during the spring break of many North and South Carolina colleges and universities, the party attracts people “from
as far away as USC,” Seehorn said.

Seehorn said the changes adopted by F&M resulted from recommendations by student members of the Council on Campus and Religious
Life (CCRL). CCRL members and Will Terry met with F&M officers last Friday to discuss these recommendations. The only recommendation
the F&M members did not approve was placing a limit on the number of kegs at the party. There were
30 this year. F&M members felt that if kegs were to run out, students would leave campus more readily, according
to Seehorn. This would increase the risk of traffic accidents due to drunk driving. Members suggested limiting the serving of
beer from 9 to 1 instead. Terry accepted this modification. Seehorn said F&M...also plans to offer non-alcoholic beverages at future
Hattie’s Nights. Alternative beverages are normally available at F&M sponsored parties, according to Seehorn, and their absence this year at
Hattie’s Night was “an oversight.” Seehorn said several years ago Peregrine House restaurant requested permission to sell hot dogs at
the party, but could not because of lack of space. Moving Hattie’s Night to another location would open possibilities for
food service by Peregrine or by campus clubs interested in making money, according to Terry.

Fifty career veterans will offer sage advice
By JIM POLLARD
Staff Correspondent

The SGA has invited 50 professionals of regional and national renown to talk with Davidson students in a Career Symposium
to be held next Monday and Tuesday. According to SGA Senator Debby Carlton, about half of this year’s senior class
is not going directly into graduate school. The Symposium should prove helpful to many of these students who have not
yet planned their future careers, according to senior Elizabeth Medlin, who has worked with SGA members on the project. “It
is only lately that a lot of people have been looking for jobs right out of college.” However, the Symposium
will also provide career information for students who plan on attending graduate school, she added.

The Career Symposium is an idea developed at Duke University and a number of other institutions in order to aid
students in making future plans. “The Symposium will give students a chance to think about their values and goals as
part of their career... Students should see their future employment as a career rather than as a job,” Medlin said.

The Symposium’s featured speaker is Joe Howell, author of Hard Living on Clay Street, which relates his experiences in renewing
an urban Washington, D.C. neighborhood. Howell, currently a professor at the American University in Washington, will speak from a career
perspective which includes a wide range of experience in social services. Howell’s “non-career career” demonstrates that there are alternatives to
climbing the corporate ladder, Carlton said.

About half of the invited guests are Davidson alumni. Among them is Ted Sumner, chairman of First Union Bank. Sumner
will speak at lunch on Tuesday on “Opportunities for the Liberal Arts Graduate.” Discussion groups on Monday and Tuesday afternoon
will give students an opportunity to learn about specific career issues and fields of interest. The Symposium’s 16 career areas
promise to satisfy a wide variety of interests, including public relations, business, law, personnel administration, medicine, and accounting.

Julie Holding ‘81
Former Union Board President

The Union has grown steadily since it moved from the Guest House five years ago; today we have fifteen committees
and over 100 students and faculty involved as committee members. We encourage everyone to both help and criticize our programs.
This year we've made several important improvements: strengthening our sense of purpose, including more dedicated people with diverse programming interests
and working with other campus organizations.

We know why we plan events—to get to know each other, have fun together, and learn more about our world.
We have expanded the short courses and formed the Chamber Music Committee. We have encouraged other organizations to use the
master calendar so as to avoid as many scheduling conflicts as possible.

What we have not done, and what I would like to see the Union do, is take a more active,
political role in campus life. In England, many Student Unions are so politically active that they organize protests and sit-ins.
I don’t advocate sit-ins as a weekly activity. But we can take a more active role in campus life by
speaking through our events, by providing a forum for the exchange of ideas and attitudes. We can actively exercise the
responsibility we have in choosing which events to produce.

Our Union is a College Union, run by students with faculty and staff assistance and cooperation. It is designed to
serve the community. This way the Union can make a contribution the SGA can’t. The SGA’s progress is largely measured
in terms of Trustee or administrative action. The SGA makes progress, but changes at a traditional school don’t come quickly.
The Union chooses which aspects of campus life or which local to global issues need more campus-community attention. We provide
opportunities for immediate discussion through films, lectures, cultural events, international dinners, dances, and parties. What the Union chooses to produce
makes a public statement of what is important to the student body and community that is Davidson College. By speaking
to and for the campus through the conscious choice of events, the Union takes responsibility for the wise use of
the funds allocated from each student’s tuition.

Nothing administrative is changed after Dada Day, Victor Herman, an organic gardening short course, Cecile Licad, Ralph Nader, or the
Spring Frolics Outdoor Concert. But we have changed. We’ve enjoyed each other and have given support to an individual to
challenge or change his/her ideas. This success is not measurable like the granting of equal access admissions would be, yet
it is a real success. I challenge the new Union Board to extend themselves as an active student voice, to
consciously take responsibility for what the Union program demonstrates about the Davidson community’s concerns. The Union has a strength that
has not been tapped. I challenge the Board—and all who want to work with it—to tap it.
