Hunter Monroe Appointed to Media Board

The SGA unanimously approved the appointment of sophomore Hunter Monroe to fill a vacancy on the Media Board. Hunter’s appointment was approved at the 13 October SGA meeting.

Speak Out’s constitution promises “to promote awareness of, respect for, and adherence to the Roman Catholic teaching prescribed by the Magisterium of the Church, and to foster understanding of the danger of Marxist or Communist ideas, which are intrinsically opposed to religion and political liberty.” One student government officer feels her organization is being unfairly treated: “The group doesn’t go against any of the university’s standards, so they should have been allowed on campus. It just wasn’t fair at all. There are other controversial organizations on campus.”

Colleges Go Semester
A growing number of colleges and universities are converting from quarter to semester systems. They are switching for both academic and financial considerations.

About 70% of the nation’s colleges are presently on the semester system. Other schools are considering the conversion because of advantages such as the reduced costs of having one less registration period and affording a greater opportunity for in-depth study.

The University of Florida offered programs throughout the campus to prepare the students for the university's conversion. This did not stop student complaints, however. One student complained that, “We have to spend a lot more time in school now, and a lot of students don’t have the need for in-depth study of every subject. Once you get into your major, it makes sense, but for some courses it doesn’t because you're not going to retain a lot of that anyway.”

Commons’ Social
The SGA will host the second student-faculty social today. The social will be from 4:30 p.m. — 5:30 p.m. downstairs in the Commons. SGA President Chip Legerton said the first social was a “tremendous success.” The SGA expected 50 to 60 people, but Chip said there were over 120 people at one time.

Communists Canned
The Marquette University student government is refusing to fund a new student group that wants to distribute anti-communist propaganda at the college. According to the College Press Service, this reflects a supposed nationwide shift to rightist opinion on campus.

The student government refused to recognize the group, Speak Out, because “it doesn’t elect its officers democratically.” Speak Out feels that political views should not be a determining factor in student funding.

Chip said one purpose of the social is to improve faculty and student relations. He urged students to bring a professor or a friend. Refreshments at the social will include wine, non-alcoholic punch, cheese and crackers, and other hors d'oeuvres.

Petition to Oust Watt
The Davidson chapter of North Carolina Public Interest Research Group (NC-PIRG) is circulating a Sierra Club petition requesting the resignation of Secretary of the Interior James Watt. The petition charges that Watt “is seeking to defy decades of legislation to protect our natural resources” and “is representing private economic interests.”

Posted copies of the petition are in Chambers, the Union Café, and other locations around campus. People are also circulating copies on Patterson Court.

Tim Whalen News Editor
Jeff Mann Asst. News Editor
Frances Palmer Asst. News Editor

John Siman Editor
Dave Banks Executive Editor

The Davidsonian is published weekly during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, NC 20036. Phone 704/882-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $10 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage no. USPS 149.300.

Roy Fuller Features Editor
Anne Goodwin Features Editor
Newton Allen Asst. Features Editor

Steve Soud Sports Editor

James Moore Production Manager
Lisa Buckley Head Compositor
Kathy Gingrich Compositor
John Lusk Compositor

James Barrat Opinions Editor
Danny Armistead World View Editor
Lucy Everett Calendar Editor

David Graybeal Advertising Manager
Scot Myers Subscription Manager
Bill Appleton Art Editor

Jim Rumley Staff Artist
Paul Schulz Staff Artist
Todd Swofford Staff Artist

Eric Long Head Photographer
Mark Sheffield Photo Production

Delivery service: 892-8686

DAVIDSONIAN Friday, 16 October 1981