Original sin and a reaction to things seen on campus—the topics are inherently difficult—religion and politics—first because they are so controversial in their details (their doctrines), and second because they are both disparate and therefore volatile expressions of man’s relationship to the world. Religion and politics have another—related—characteristic: they both provide many examples of what Erich Fromm calls “the syndrome of growth” and “the syndrome of decay.” Fromm writes of these syndromes, in one fashion or another, in all his works, but in no other work are the topics more focused than in his *The Heart of Man*.

Two items encouraged me to write this article. One was the letter to the *Davidsonian* two weeks ago concerning original sin. The writers were wondering—mischievously—what DCFers meant by the term “original sin.” A mischievous question, but a good one. The other inspiring item was the poster in Chambers which depicted a boy and a dove, with a caption which read: “Without [nuclear] disarmament, who will have grandchildren?” or something to that effect. The poster had a graffiti answer: “The winners.” Someone had scribbled this presumably referring to the winners of the next world war (or at least the next nuclear war). These two items provide good examples of elements in Fromm’s thesis that society has two strivings—one of growth, one of decay.

For example, let’s examine the concept of “original sin.” The original sin in the Christian view is Adam’s disobedience to God. Fromm writes in *The Heart of Man* that the concept of original sin is (naturally) absent in Old Testament (and I presume Jewish) thought. The act of Adam’s disobedience to the Old Testament God is not viewed as a sin, and Fromm points out that there is “nowhere a hint that his disobedience has corrupted man.” (All of Fromm’s comments are from his book.) This will be a relief to those who were indignant at having been condemned as a sinner before they were even born! (Interestingly, a few of my friends who find the tale of the disobedience of Adam to be apocryphal also find it sufficiently loaded in symbolism—the symbolism of separation—to still be moved by it.)

This was a difficult article to write. There is an awesome responsibility to shoulder when one accepts this Old Testament view for “the disobedience is the condition for man’s self-awareness, for his capacity to choose, and... is man’s first step toward freedom,” according to Fromm. It becomes the responsibility of men and women to choose between “good” and “evil,” and as trite as that sounds, one can interpret the entire Old Testament as Israel’s struggle to determine righteous behavior. Importantly, the Old Testament God was reluctant to interfere with this search for righteous living. The Old Testament arguably maintains that we must depend on our (often feeble) moral sense in our battle to understand our relationships to the godhead, to government, to each other.

The Christian view, on the other hand, holds that men and women are innately corrupt, that they had no means to bring themselves back to God—at least before the death and resurrection of Jesus. “Christ is our only bridge to God.” “Accept Jesus as your Lord and Savior and you will be saved (or freed from sin, or loved).” The absoluteness of this atonement and the absoluteness of this condition of sin has caused many problems in the development of Christian doctrines, but it still remains central to Christian thought. What a distinct change from Old Testament thought! The Old Testament stresses man’s actions in man’s world towards a human goal: righteous (moral) living. How close we are to God depends on the quality of our human behavior. This seems closer to what Fromm calls “humanism,” part of his “syndrome of growth.” On the other hand, while the New Testament (and therefore Christian) view may at times encourage symptoms of the syndrome...Of growth, Fromm rightly points out that it is frequently associated with an aspect of the syndrome of decay, namely social narcissism. Social narcissism is typified by the construction of social, political, and religious barriers between people. I’m guessing that the mood of exclusivity in the Christian views of original sin and salvation through Jesus allows this element of narcissism to creep in: I am saved, you are not; I have the truth, you do not; or even, I am accepted by the “true believers,” and you are not. An example of this narcissism is in the very title “the Roman Catholic Church” — at once universal and parochial. Universal (catholic) because the church believes what all should believe, parochial because what all should believe is what the pope decrees or what the Church interprets. This exclusivity was clearly manifested during inquisitions, but this was not the most crucial example of fanaticism and “violence” in Church history: “Both sides [of the doctrinal battles of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries] spoke in the name of God, of Christ, of love... yet they hated each other, and each was passionately convinced that humanity ended at the frontiers of his own religious faith... ‘We’ are the admirable; ‘they’ are the despicable.” (Fromm, The Heart of Man.) Even today we find this mood of exclusivity in the name “the Moral Majority.” Intended or not, the name implies that the group represents the moral sensibilities of the majority of Americans. Is it not true that we, not as members of “the Moral Majority,” sometimes have wondered if we truly are in a moral minority? “I am moral” has the understood segué “... and you’d better believe as I do.” In all fairness, this socially narcissistic tendency is not the rule among the Christian friends that I know. They represent the opposing, humanistic striving: the striving to tolerate others, to love each other actively, to realize that the “‘human condition’ is one and the same for all men,” as Fromm puts it. (This sounds trite, too, I guess, but I defend this thesis any way I’m able.) The poster in Chambers provides a clearer example of the contrast between social narcissism and humanism. To point up our common “human condition,” the poster appeals to our instinct to have children (and grandchildren), it appeals to our love of innocence (the boy) and peaceful beauty (the dove). The poster seems to beg us to relax our paranoia, our fear of “them.” The poster suggests that the only alternative is a wasted planet. It reminds us, perhaps, that in the event of even limited nuclear war we have gone too far; that we all lose the next war if nuclear arms are employed. This is humanism. The socially narcissistic aspect of the poster is the graffiti. The comment (perhaps well-intended) that the “winners” of the next war will be those who will have grandchildren. But the term “winner” has two problems. First, it implies at least two “sides”: our side, their side; good guys, bad guys; eventually, winners, losers. (The Cold War mentality: “let them know that if ‘they’ fight, ‘we’ will win.”) Second, the “winner” of the next war to use even limited nuclear warfare is seen to be willing to pay for his victory with an ill planet. It’s clear in this light why Fromm says that social narcissism is an example of society’s syndrome of decay. One can argue that the sure way to avoid nuclear war — particularly if elements of the syndrome of decay are prevalent in our society — is to eliminate nuclear arms. But one can’t legislate against fear — so one must avoid fear by developing the elements of the syndrome of growth — we must become humanistic, we must practice some sort of active caring and loving of all people — especially of those who make us afraid, and of those who are afraid of us.

Paul Ward is a senior mathematics major and sometime musician.