day’s meet with archrival Duke. In fact, Randy’s resurrection to racing form was one of the few bright spots in the Davidson 18–41 loss at Duke last Saturday. Randy led a strong Davidson surge early in the race, not quite in line with the overconfident Blue Devils’ plans. Randy forced top runner Scott Jones off the pace and helped the Cats break up the formidable Duke “pack.” Randy pressed on, finishing third overall (28:11) on the hilly 5½ mile course. He commented that the Duke runners were “fading late in the race” but he held on using his downhill momentum to carry him past all but the top two, who may not have lasted another hundred yards.

The rest of the Davidson top five, Frank Ivey, Danny Armistead, Jack Smith, and Garry Sullivan could not hold Randy’s aggressive pace. Coach Sterling Martin was ecstatic about Randy’s performance and leadership in the race and commented that the Cats just might catch Duke in October’s state meet. Coach Martin is keying on the Southern Conference meet and is looking to take Randy to the NCAA regional meet. The last time a Davidson athlete qualified for that was 1978.

The Davidson thinclads dropped to 0–3 on the season and are ripe for wins tomorrow as they take on Lynchburg College and Eastern Mennonite College on the tough Lynchburg course.

Sophomore Tamara Foreman and freshman Sarah Patterson paced the Davidson College women’s cross-country team to an easy 22–33 victory over Duke last Saturday. The Wildcat tandem finished 1–2 with times of 21:10 and 21:12 over the hilly 5000 meter course. Marian Hill (24:36), freshmen Jane Webb (22:58), and Elizabeth Hargrove (22:59) rounded out Davidson’s top five, finishing fourth, seventh, and eighth.

Coach Sterling Martin cited superb talent and hard work as the Lady Cats’ major assets and praised the poise of the freshmen in their first intercollegiate meet. Martin is already eyeing the state meet and is looking toward berths for his top runners in the NCAA regionals in November. First, however, the 1–0 girls must get past tough Lynchburg College in an away meet this weekend.

High Point deals Davidson an eye-opener

by Jim Northrup ’82

High Point defeated Davidson last Tuesday 3–1 in the first game of the Cats’ regular field hockey season.

“We played flat, and they took advantage of our mistakes,” explained Coach Mayes. “We controlled the ball for most of the game, but not when we needed it.” High Point scored first in the middle of the first half. Mavin Martin tied the game up in the middle of the second half with an assist from junior Amy Crittenberger. High Point went on to score twice more.

The Cats won two and lost one in a series of three scrimmages played last Saturday. In the second of the three, Davidson beat High Point 3–1. Returning sophomore Mavin Martin scored one; freshman Sarah Hart sent the ball in twice. “We capitalized on our opportunities in that game,” Mayes pointed out.

The second win of the day was a hard-fought 3–2 victory over the University of Richmond. The game was tied up 1–1 at the end of regulation, Crittenberger scoring for Davidson. The scrimmage went into a “stroke-off” rather than going into overtime, with Crittenberger and Mebane Atwood scoring two for Davidson. “We’re real pleased with that win,” Mayes added. “We’ll have to play them again in the regionals.”

Davidson lost to Pfeifer, an NCIA team (Davidson plays AIAW), 5–0. “We can beat Pfeifer,” Mayes said, “We just couldn’t this time. I’ve had to experiment with putting different girls into different positions. We’ll be more ready to play them when they come here again.” (October 8).

Goalie and co-captain Cathy Morell added, “We played with lots of enthusiasm and with a positive attitude. Player-for-player I see a lot of skill, and it’s beginning to click for us now as a team.”

Davidson goes to Clemson on Monday and plays its first regular season home game on Thursday against Appalachian at 4:00. Both should be good games.

Rhythm and Blues!
Saturday night
Middle of Patterson Court
10 Kegs 8:00–12:00

As an advocate of reason, egoism and capitalism, I seek to reach the men of the intellect wherever such may still be found.
Ayn Rand

Dr. Leonard Peikoff offers a 12 lecture course on Ayn Rand's philosophy, Objectivism. Miss Rand participates in most of the question periods. Recorded live in New York, this course will soon be given on tape in this area. Please call for details. A free descriptive brochure is available on request.

Contact:
Bob Klein
Box 3046
892-8171.