NC-PIRG versus

Students circulate Sierra Club petition:

By Jeff Holland '84.

The Davidson chapter of NC-PIRG (North Carolina Public Interest Research Group) is circulating a Sierra Club petition requesting the resignation of Secretary of the Interior James Watt.

President and senior Geof Little said, "We received the petition in the mail and decided to use it as the platform for our activities."

Although he admits that he does not expect the petition to be successful in ousting Watt, Geof feels that its importance lies in raising awareness.

He said, "We want Congress to know that we care about the President's appointments and that we want to keep an eye on his actions."

The petition charges that Watt "is seeking to defy decades of legislation designed to protect our natural resources" and is representing private economic interests.

The petition urges Congress to make the removal of Watt from office a "highest priority" and requests the rejection of legislation which reflects his policies. NC-PIRG has posted copies of the petition along with an explanation of the Sierra Club’s platform in Chambers, the Union Cafe, and other locations around campus. People are also circulating them around Patterson Court.

The petition project reflects a new direction for NC-PIRG this year. Suffering from continually decreasing funds, Geof said that this year NC-PIRG at Davidson will de-emphasize the research aspect of the organization and work on "raising student consciousness" on public issues.

The decline in funding is due to a change in the contribution policy on the part of the College. In the spring of 1980, the College changed NC-PIRG’s funding system from a "negative check-off system" to a "positive check-off system." Under the old negative check-off system, the College tacked a NC-PIRG fee onto each tuition bill. The College refunded the fee upon request. The organization now uses a positive funding system, in which a student adds the fee voluntarily to his bill and the College forwards it to NC-PIRG.

Geof said that all NC-PIRG chapters raise funds in similar ways and that he is not sure what the original reason was for this policy. The NC-PIRG chapter at Rutgers is facing a lawsuit over its funding system which is still based on negative check-off.

Geof said that NC-PIRG has had no trouble with the funding policy of Davidson since the change. Because of its lack of financial support, the status of NC-PIRG at Davidson is in limbo this year. The state office determined last year that because of its inadequate funding, they would not send an official to the campus this year. However, the Davidson chapter still receives NC-PIRG literature and receives an occasional unofficial visit from the state office.

"We didn’t utilize our staff member very much when we had one, so we are very comfortable with the situation as it stands," Geof said.

In order to encourage greater interest on the part of Davidson students this year, NC-PIRG plans to emphasize political consciousness and try to eliminate programs that require long-term commitments, Geof said. NC-PIRG will finish off their energy-efficiency study of off-campus housing, started last year, and present it before the Trustees at their meeting next week. NC-PIRG also plans to get involved in hazardous waste disposal research, environmental research, and consumer issues.

Currently, there are eight to ten people actively involved in NC-PIRG at Davidson, plus a number of people who indicated an interest at the Activities Fair last month. Geof said that this is an appropriate number considering the size of the College and the small amount of time the average Davidson student is able to give to extracurricular activities. Geof said they are planning for more student contact as the year progresses, including contacting the signers of the Watt petition.