ep baer

igloos, adobes,

and passive
solar heating

A look at solar homes in the Davidson community

by Newton Allen ‘82

MONTHLY GAS / OIL HEATING BILLS ARE FOR
the birds. The Eskimo in his igloo never
had to pay them. The Pueblo Indians of the
American Southwest never had to pay them either.
And now a few people in Davidson are cleverly
avoiding that monumental monthly monetary outlay
as well by living in passive solar homes.
Passive solar housing attempts to maximize the
benefits of the natural environmental condition and
minimize the dependence on fossil fuels by virtue of
the structural components of the building. The
Eskimo’s igloo was a passive solar home. He built his
home with an interior trench running downhill from
the side opposite the door across the igloo and out the
door. The air warmed by his body would rise and the
cold air would be pushed down the trench and out the
door. The adobes of the Pueblo Indians had thick
walls and roofs which protected the inhabitants from
the sun during the day leaving the interior cool. At
night the heat absorbed by the walls during the day
would re-radiate to the interior keeping them warm.
Modern man is blessed with the “wonder” of glass
which enables him to trap the sun’s energy more
effectively than could primitive peoples. A passive
solar home faces south, because the sun’s winter
course is low in the southern sky. The sun’s energy is
trapped on the southern side of the house and stored in
water, rock, or cement. At night, as the interior of the
house cools, the stored heat re-radiates to the interior.
In the summer the sun crosses high in the sky. Its
energy can be avoided by an overhanging roof or a
covering over the glass.

Here in Davidson are several examples of passive
solar homes. M' Ken Wood lives in the ex-“Animal
Farm”, the old home of some “very laid-back
students,” he said. The house was in such disrepair
that the college was going to tear it down. M' Wood,
however, bought it, completely gutted out the walls,
and added a passive solar greenhouse. It has worked
out, he said, “far better than anticipated.”

In the greenhouse he grows vegetables and herbs,
and finds it “a delightful area to look out on.”
Furthermore, his home gains about 40% of its winter
heat from the greenhouse. In the daytime, if the
outside temperature is 35° F, the inside temperature is
70° F. At night a wood stove supplements the heat of
the greenhouse. He estimated that his savings due to
his passive solar home come to $800 — $900 per year.
Considering that the greenhouse cost him $700 plus
his time and labor, he is very happy with it.

Why did M' Wood become interested in solar
energy? “I believe in living as simply and as
independently as I can. I am a gardener and a
beekeeper. Solar energy was a logical next step.”

DAVIDSONIAN | Friday, 23 October 1989