Cats Whip Cadets: Soccer Takes Sole Possession of SC Second Place
by Mark Elmore '82

Before reading the fortune of the soccer team this week, everyone should appreciate the game aesthetically. More than any other team sport, soccer has the capacity for creativity; it allows players to create free-flowing, continuous action without the artifice of rehearsed plays. Everything that happens is spontaneous and free, so the match progresses with a certain assurance. It builds, gradually and constantly, before advancement is made. Trivial measurements for yardage are never taken, for distances are almost insignificant. Time rarely becomes a factor in strategy because the strategy itself is fluid and unfettered. Players have positions, but they are loose and overlapping so players can float about the field for support or deception. Now, let the fun begin!

On Friday, the soccer team loaded up those spacious athletic vans and rambled across the mountains to Chattanooga, where they challenged an improved University of Tennessee. The field, which probably had more input into the game’s outcome than the teams, looked as though the Steeler front line had a golf game on it since it had bunkers and divots scattered about to deter play. Todd Lambert stated that, “As usual, we came out flat in the beginning,” and U.T.C. scored the first goal. “It seems,” he furthered, “that we need a goal scored on us to get us going.” And that it did! By half-time, the score was 2-2. Our goals were booted in by Chris Roberts and freshman Mike Mauze.

Like so many times this season, the second half found Davidson dominating game-play but unable to score. Well, the game ended in a tie — how many times has that happened this year? 3? 4? 5? (Circle the answer you think is correct.) In overtime, the Cats came out rocket-charged. C.K. Nichols scored first with a blooper over their keeper’s head and then Roberts seared the back of their net with a reamer that left them dazed and down until the game’s end. Final score: Davidson 4, U.T.C. 2. Yea!

Saturday, the Cats cruised to Covenant and played hide-and-seek on the top of Lookout Mountain with their N.A.I.A. eighteenth-ranked soccer team. Some said there was a cloud on the fields, others a mist, Coach Slagle said it was just fog. He grinned and admitted, “I didn’t even know there were any spectators until I heard them chanting across the field.” What is this chanting, fog, and mist? What kind of place is Covenant? Who are these guys? No one could tell me, but somewhere in it all Covenant managed to sneak in three goals and win.

European Championships — Wildcat Thinclads Place Second on Rough Course
by John Hoots '82

As most people were waking up Saturday morning, about 200 area and college division runners were warming up for the 1981 European Cross-Country Championships on the Davidson cross-country course. Davidson sported second place in the college division, behind VMI and ahead of Campbell College, Georgia State, and UNCC. The course was thoroughly reworked by cross-country czar Sterling Martin, routing the thinclads through narrow deer paths and tricky powerline trails that are considered too dangerous for normal cross-country. Indeed, sophomore Frank Ivey found out how tough it really was on the new course, twisting an ankle a few days before the race. The Cat thinclads took the course changes in stride, however, with senior Randy “Old Man” McManus once again taking the laurels for Davidson, and fifth overall in 35:11.

Athlete of the Week: Wendell Washington, Nose Guard

Wendell Washington, a 300 lb. sophomore from Clanton, Alabama, came up with three big plays in Saturday’s 44-14 Davidson win. He intercepted a deflected BU pass, recovered a fumble, and tackled the Terrier quarterback for a safety. Wendell Washington will remember that day for a while.Number 2 spot for the Cats, eleventh overall. Sullivan is just the man who is capable of pacing the Cats to a high finish in the Southern Conference meet, November 7, along with the “Old Man,” Danny Armistead, Jack Smith, and Frank Ivey. Armistead, Smith, and Ivey rounded out the nucleus of the Davidson team in 36:25, 36:49, and 36:49. In a show of true roommate support, Smith paced the injured “Fast Man” Ivey to place fifth for the Cats. Davidson looks tough for the State championship meet tomorrow at Duke University. The only doubt is in Ivey’s weak ankle, which is healing well. The Cats hope that by running as a tight team, they can knock off a few of the top teams with weak fourth and fifth men, to finish respectably behind the ACC powerhouses.

The DC women’s team rode off to the Appalachian State cross-country Invitational to avoid the European meet and ran into some stiff competition from the likes of Virginia Tech, East Tennessee State, and Georgia State. Tamara Foreman took the blue ribbon for the Cats, finishing fourteenth overall in 19:34 for the five-kilometer course. The time was her personal best and the best by a Lady Cat runner this season. Junior Marian Hill and freshman Sarah Patterson also ran their personal best five-kilometer cross-country races, finishing in 19:54 and 20:10. In fact, the whole team ran well but was outmanned by the competition. Many of the teams had scholarship runners. Senior Carrie Nunn was sorely missed last week and will probably concentrate on chemistry for the remainder of the season. Individually, the top women runners will score well in tomorrow’s State meet in Durham. They run their workouts with the men’s team, and rumor has it that the awesome threesome, Foreman, Hill, and Patterson, are faster than some of the guys. They’ll be fast tomorrow, but we’ll have to wait until November 7 for the Division II Regionals to see how really fast this year’s girls team can run.

Because Covenant played well and because the loss was not in the Conference, the team took it in stride. Though the games over the weekend were exciting, the big game was on Tuesday in Charleston against the Citadel—the soccer team’s most hated enemy. Imagine traveling for four hours (in the comfort of those spacious Athletic Vans) and battling a bunch of gung-ho Cadets for 1.5 hours while two hundred obnoxious bulletheads hurl obscenities from all angles. That is the way it was two years ago. Not a whole lot to look forward to. The game with the cinderheads is always fast and rough and they always win—usually by a slim margin which makes losing worse. This year Davidson won 1–0 and the seniors who have engaged them for three years were ecstatic. Chris Roberts took a direct kick from Charles “Schroom” Price and pumped a shot by their wall. The ball bobbled about among the Cadets and was poked into their goal for the winning goal. Davidson is 8–6 overall and 4–1 in the Southern Conference. Since 1971 the soccer team has not been better than fourth and presently they are second. Their next three games are all Conference games and they are all at home. The first is Saturday against Marshall. I’ll be there.

Pre-medical students: Current undergraduate pre-medical students may now compete for several hundred Air Force scholarships. These scholarships are to be awarded to students accepted into medical schools as freshmen or at the beginning of their sophomore year. The scholarship provides for tuition, books, lab fees, and equipment, plus a $530 monthly allowance. Investigate this financial alternative to the high cost of medical education. Contact: USAF Health Professions Recruiting Suite GL-1, 1100 Navaho Drive, Raleigh, NC 27609. Phone collect 1-919/755-4134.