February 6, 1981—The Davidsonian—3

Fiscal conservatism makes for small investment returns

By JOHN RICHARDS
Staff Writer

Davidson's conservative fiscal policies have yielded the College a 66% increase in its endowment over the past 12 years—but in
constant dollars, the endowment has shrunk significantly. Davidson's present $22.9 million endowment is worth 30% less than the $13.8 million
endowment of 1967-68 when one makes adjustments for inflation.

Endowment performance is crucial, for the endowment provides a large source of income for College operations. Thus, mediocre performance of
the endowment over the past 12 years has resulted in a smaller contribution of investment income towards annual College expenditures.
This means the College faces tighter finances overall.

The College uses income from the investment of the endowment in three ways:
—First, some of the return is reinvested to help offset constant dollar value losses entailed by inflation.
—Second, some of the return is from restricted trusts, which must be used for specific purposes such as building funds
and scholarship programs.
—Third, the rest of the return is put towards the College’s annual operating budget as the College sees fit. The
greater the return, the more the College has to spend on items from faculty compensation to physical plant operations. Furthermore,
a large return lessens the College’s reliance on other sources of income—such as students’ tuition—to finance operations.

From 1967 until 1979, the investment management firm of Scutter, Stevens and Clark earned the College an annual yield of
between five and seven percent on its endowment, almost the average for colleges nationwide. However, some entities note that if
Davidson had performed better than average, it would have increased the endowment earnings by from $10 to $20 million. This
estimate is based on the above-average yields of the top 25% (first quartile) of the nation’s college endowment management firms.
Had the College employed any of these firms, it might have kept abreast of inflation—which rose about 150% total over
the past 12 years—instead of settling for an average yield of about 6%. For comparison, an average savings account earned
over 5% per annum during this period.

Background

In 1967, Davidson made the move to have its endowment managed professionally. Before this time, the endowment funds, then totaling
$12.7 million, were managed by the College Finance Committee. The change was an important one. In the previous decade, the
endowment had more than doubled. Professional management was expected to ensure sound investment. The Davidson administration chose Scutter, Stevens and
Clark, a large company with an industry reputation for consistent conservative performance, to manage the endowment. Their size made exceptional
accomplishment all but impossible. The choice was well in keeping with the College’s professed fiscal goals of “fiscal soundness and
independence.” The College could not anticipate the economic turmoil of the coming decade. But neither did it adapt to the
situation until 12 years had passed.

The management firm is responsible for assuring that the endowment fund is invested according to various criteria established by the
parent institution. One approach is to assure the greatest possible yield on endowment. Another is to assure consistency of yield
on the investment. Earnings usually have to be sacrificed to assure consistency.

From 1967 until 1970, the endowment grew from a book value of $12,667,653 to a book value of $16,123,767, an
increase of 27%. Other statistics are helpful in determining the growth of endowments. The book value of an endowment is
the price that the College has paid for the stocks and bonds that compose the major portion of the endowment
pool. Market value is a measure of how much the stocks and bonds are worth if sold on the market.
The difference between book and market value over a year plus appreciation largely determines the time-weighted total return on investment
(TWTR). Another measure of growth is the yield on market value, which is essentially total endowment income divided by the
net worth of the endowment. The yield is the actual money realized over the year from the endowment’s investment, and
thus available for either reinvestment or expenditures.

In fiscal year 1970-71, the College established the investment goal of total return. This method seeks to sum up a
figure used to compute the success of the endowment. This figure was only published in 1979-80, after the College had
hired a new investment firm. Until then, it was kept a secret. In 1970, over the protest of some faculty
members, the College also decided to institute changes based on a Ford Foundation study on college investment strategies. The formula
calls for a normal yield of at least 5% on endowment per year, with any extra yield being reinvested in
the endowment. This policy was also unsuited for continuation throughout the decade of the 1970s. Yet, until 1979, the College...

John Calvin sacrificed for his convictions. His descendants, the founders of Davidson College, also sacrificed to establish an institution where
“liberty having arisen,”...learning could be cherished" (Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas). Thus we were able to receive a Davidson education
for only 60% of its actual cost because previous generations, by their endowments and annual gifts, provided the other 40%.
But what about the Davidson of tomorrow? If succeeding generations are to enjoy Davidson, we must sacrifice today. Have you
paid your 40% debt to Davidson? Surely, your Calvinistic sense of responsibility (along with other considerations) will compel you to
send a gift to the 1980 Living Endowment today! (Communications Department)

The point is that income from investments of the endowment provides money for Davidson’s annual operating budget. Unfortunately, the constant
dollar value of the endowment—and hence annual endowment yield—has fallen in past years. Unfortunately, during this time, economic forces had
caused the inflation rate to reach record heights. Combined with recession, especially in 1974-75 and 1977, the market proved disastrous
to conservative fiscal policies. The College remained with its fiscal policies, and the conservative Scutter, Stevens and Clark management firm
for 12 years, until June 30, 1979, when it hired the firms of Fayez Sarofim and Company and Lexington Management
Corporation after a year’s search. During this twelve-year period, the College endowment grew from $16,105,802 to $22,002,926, an increase of
26.8%, but in constant dollars, this represents a loss of 30.5%. This loss even takes into account the additions of
gifts to the endowment during this time. The actual loss from investment erosion is greater.

This past fiscal year, the endowment had a time-weighted total return of 17.6%, which is considerably above the 10% return
of the previous year, but still "average" for the fund management industry, according to Rodger Reynolds, an investment broker with
E.F. Hutton in Charlotte. The E.F. Hutton Management Company, for example, had a total return of over 20% in 1979-80.

Analysis

The combined effects of an unstable economy and the fiscal policy pursued by the college from 1970 to 1979 have
hurt Davidson. Not only has endowment growth been sluggish, but yield on endowment has been consistently around 6%. College Business
Manager Robert Currie pointed out that this yield is about average for college endowments for this period. Reynolds noted that
there is no reason why an endowment should not try to be managed by a firm with top quartile earnings
every year. If Davidson had only achieved this goal for half of the years during the 12-year period, it would
have yielded approximately 40% more money. Currie has statistics not only on the average college endowment yields, but lists of
managers who have consistently (9 years or more) yielded within the top quartile upon their investments. Yet the college stayed
on with Scutter, Stevens, and Clark for 12 average years.

Other statistics reveal the extent of this erosion of the endowment’s actual contribution to the quality of the college. Actual
growth of the endowment is important as a resource pool for investment. Because of the diminishing amount of endowment income
in budgetary functions, students have had to pay an increasing portion of the total operating budget. In 1964-65, endowment funds
provided 19% of the College’s annual operating expenditures. In 1979-80, it provided about 11%.

An administrator, who would not allow his name to be used, admitted that the College has done poorly in the
past, but cited several reasons for optimism. First, the living endowment is beginning to bear fruit. Second, since the College
has changed endowment managers, it has shown a much greater total return. Finally, there is hope that the 1987 Program
will help financial matters considerably. The latter two points are contested. The actual yield on market value remains low, while
the total return still remains only average. In any case, the actual percentage of the budget that the endowment covers
continues to decline. Of the $35 million that the College hopes to raise, only $19 million is slated for actual
improvement of the endowment on budgetary items, which will only help to make up for ground lost in the past
decade in terms of endowment, faculty compensation, and student fees. The rest is slated by the administration for building projects.
If inflation and merely average investment continue, much of the expected benefits of the 1987 Program will themselves be lost.
Also, potential investors may be upset that their money would not be used to its fullest advantage. Reynolds recommended that
the College interview two or three management firms per year, and attempt to earn the highest yield possible.
