Editorial

It shall be the duty of this committee to assist the President and the Vice-President for Academic Affairs in arriving at decisions regarding the renewal of contracts of members of the Faculty and in making recommendations to the Trustees regarding the granting of continuous tenure.
(from the proposed guidelines for The Committee on Reappointment and Tenure)

Imagine having a teaching job where you are evaluated not by students or colleagues but by an administrator. Now imagine being an administrator responsible for hiring and releasing faculty members in twenty departments whom you neither studied under nor worked with in the classroom. It’s not a very comfortable position for anyone involved, administrator, professor, or student. Sooner or later conflicts are bound to surface, and they have.

Recent administrative evaluations of Mr. Dailey, Mr. Koller, and Mr. Retzer were severely questioned by both faculty and students. Most of the controversy (and resulting bitterness) centered around the idea that only one or two people, who had little contact with the professors in question, were responsible for the evaluation and release of these professors. They were supposedly evaluated according to criteria for the faculty evaluations as stated in the Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures (teaching, professional attainments, and intellectual and moral values). However, since the administration never specifically stated why a particular professor was hired or released, accusations flew. Faculty and students placed sole blame on an administration that, for confidentiality’s sake, could not respond. Morale on all sides suffered from questionable decisions made by only a few people who could not answer for their actions or share in the blame.

The Professional Affairs Committee’s proposal to form a faculty committee called “The Advisory Committee on Reappointment and Tenure” is a step in the right direction to easing tensions and, one hopes, providing a more accurate evaluation of a professor’s performance and credentials. The committee will consist of five tenured full professors whose duty will be “to assist the President and the Vice President for Academic Affairs in arriving at decisions regarding the renewal of contracts of members of the Faculty and in making recommendations to the Trustees regarding the granting of continuous tenure.” These five professors will discuss each case with the Vice President for Academic Affairs and then “will vote either to recommend, to recommend with reservations, or not to recommend the candidate for reappointment or tenure.” This recommendation will be included in the Vice President’s report to the President, who will make the final decision.

The proposal still contains some problems, namely the Committee’s lacking actual power and having to evaluate its own peers. But it should provide a more accurate evaluation of professors’ performances and allow a sharing of the responsibility of the hiring and releasing of professors.

The proposal passed a first reading at this week’s faculty meeting, but by only one vote over the two-thirds majority required. There should, however, be no question of the need for this committee. It is fairer and more accurate than our current evaluation policy. There may be more Kollers, Daileys, and Retzers in the future, so let’s hope that the Committee will be formed to provide a fair evaluation of their performance and ease faculty-administration conflicts.

DAVIDSONIAN

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Editor: Stewart Cauley

Executive Editor: Brian Butler

News Editors: Jeffrey Mann, Elizabeth Smiley
Sports Editor: Steve Soud
International Editors: James Gelley, Dan Turk
Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams
Calendar Editor: Susan Graves
Photo Editor: Elizabeth Elkin
Layout: James Moore, Jeff Herrin, Lisa Boardman, Jane Harper

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from our readers. We try to print all letters that are of general interest, but we adhere to these four guidelines:

[1] We require that letters be in our hands by Tuesday 7 p.m.
[2] We require that letters be neatly typed.
[3] We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editor, Stewart Cauley.
[4] We reserve the right not to print letters that (a) function as advertisements; (b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes; (c) represent a view very similar to that expressed in many letters printed on the same topic. We also reserve the right to condense very long letters.

The Davidsonian does not in any way endorse the opinions expressed in letters that we print.

Stewart Cauley, Editor

Photographers: Anderson Scott, Randy Stroud, Neil Cooksey, Eric Long, Kelly Sundberg

Staff: Mark Sheffield, John Hartman, Lucy Everett, Jeff Holland, John Verdi, Anne Goodwin, John Krotchko, John Lusk, Lisa Buckley, Ivy Goodman
Graphics: Susan Myers
Advertising Manager: Karis Herstein
Old Hand: Killer