Madison Manhandles Cats 35-7

By SCOTT HUIE ’85

Throw in a fumble, a missed blocking assignment, a defensive lapse, and maybe a penalty or two, and what do
you have? One might call it Davidson’s game plan, especially after seeing 12th-ranked James Madison manhandle the Cats 35-7 last
Saturday before 2800 spectators.

“Sure enough,” Coach Ed Farrell said, “it’s making those big mistakes that’s killing us. Heck, we were down 18-7 at
halftime but completely dominated the first half.”

From the opening drive, the Wildcats were on a roll. From their own 16-yard line, the Cats methodically marched to
the Dukes’ two, gaining seven first downs and eating up eight minutes from the clock. But a delay-of-game penalty put
Davidson back to the seven, and Chip Knox’s field goal attempt fell inches wide.

Madison assumed control on its ensuing 80-yard drive. On the sixth play of the drive, the Duke halfback took the
option around left and scampered 59 yards for the score.

But the Cats did not fall over and play dead just then. In the second quarter Davidson sustained an 85-yard
drive thanks to two pass interference penalties worth 50 yards. Fullback Bob Miller took it over from the two, and
Knox’s conversion was good.

Then Davidson played dead possum. Instead of inserting the punt-return team on a Madison fourth down, Farrell kept his defense
in. “We wanted to be conservative,” the coach said, “and we thought they might have the fake on.”

The fake was not on. Freshman cornerback Stockton Whitten fumbled the punt in the end zone, and Madison fell on
the ball for the score.

It got no prettier. Linebacker Stone Bynum, who has a knack for intercepting passes, got his first of the game
deep in Davidson territory. But in trying to make the big play, he tossed a flicker-ball lateral which found nothing
but ground, and the Dukes recovered. On the next play Madison’s halfback bolted 16 yards around left end for the
score.

Halftime score: Madison 18, Davidson 7. First downs: Davidson 16, Madison 8.

Quarterback Keith Martin injured his ankle late in the first half, and replacement Jeff Haney took over the helm only
to be greeted by a sack on the first play. In the second half things just got worse. The offense
eked out a measly nine yards until late in the fourth quarter when Haney’s only completion in six attempts was
a 41-yard screen play to halfback Leonard Walker.

The Dukes, on the other hand, racked up a 35-yard field goal and two more touchdowns, one on a 64-yard
pass completion and the other on a 25-yard drive set up by a Davidson fumble.

Surprisingly, the Cats led in first downs 20 to 18. But as Farrell stated, “On two plays they gained 120
yards for two TDs. Take those away, and we practically played them even.” Madison led in rushing yardage, 307 to
121, and passing yardage 112 to 97. One costly statistic was the Wildcats’ three fumbles, all of which led directly
to JMU touchdowns.

On the individual side, Walker turned into a workhorse, rushing for 79 yards in 25 attempts. Defensively, end D.E. Wright
and linebacker Mike Jones performed admirably, totaling 13 and 12 tackles, respectively.

The defeat was not the only loss for the Cats. Although the Dukes may not have been the Plague, they
did leave the Wildcats crippled with injury, particularly on offense. Martin is out one to two weeks with a badly
sprained ankle. Second stringer Haney will take charge, but according to Farrell, “needs more work in practice.” Bob Miller, already
slowed up by an ankle injury, suffered a shoulder sprain but will probably play. Tackle Charles Hooker strained his back
and is also probable. And cornerback Keith Ellis is out at least one week with strained ligaments.

Tomorrow, the Cats face NAIA foe Guilford College (2-2), who is coming off a 31-0 trounce of Salisbury State. Farrell
said, “Three things about this game concern me: 1) Guilford always throws an offense at us which is difficult to
defend; 2) they just came off a big win, and I’m sure they relish the challenge of taking on an
NCAA Div. IAA team like ourselves; and 3) I’m still concerned about Davidson. I’ve said it many times, but we
do have the potential to be a really good football team. We just need to gain confidence.”

So far the team appears not to have let the recent heartbreaker phase their emotional intensity.

I believe this will be their week. It’s time for the offense to jell, despite the loss to Martin, and
the defense to fill those gaps. Look for the Cats to win big.

Huie’s Prediction: Davidson 31, Guilford 17

Senior Captain Leonard Walker scampers upfield on one of 25 carries Saturday en route to a 79-yard day.

Club Lacrosse Beats Elon 5-4, to 2-1

THE DAVIDSONIAN / October 1982
