“The Play’s the Thing...”

Ten workshop one-acts are planned for this winter

By JEFF DEMPSEY ’83

The scions of Davidson drama promise an untypically active winter season at Davidson with ten students—the largest number ever—directing one-act plays. Two workshop plays will be performed each weekend beginning 6-8 January for five weeks. This year’s plays run the gamut from light comedy in the park to serious drama in an asylum, from the 1790s to the 1970s, from love discovered to conflict with no exit.

Professor Rupert Barber of the Theatre Department offers a course to acquaint students with the tasks and choices of a director. “In Drama 220, the fall course of directing theory,” says Barber, “I ask the students to submit three plays that they would like to do, and I suggest to them which play I think they can succeed in and which play we can cast. I’m not a censor, only a guide.” The ten students who chose to direct workshop plays made the final selection of scripts.

The first two plays (6-7 Jan.) are “The Loveliest Afternoon of the Year” by John Guare, directed by Doug Vass, and “Where Have All the Lightning Bugs Gone?” by Louis Catron, directed by Karen Baldwin. “I chose ‘Bugs’,” says Karen, “because it’s a challenge both for me and my actors. In the play the lovers talk about and act out events in their past and future lives; thus the actors must switch from one role to another several times in rapid succession.” Doug was attracted to “Afternoon” because he feels that “the absurd and sobering ending of the play injects meaning into the comedy.”

The second weekend (13-14 Jan.) features “Next” by Terrence McNally, directed by Charlie Lovett, and “The Insanity of Mary Girard” by Lanie Robertson, directed by Scot Myers. “Next” is a comedy about a man trying to flunk his draft board physical. “The challenge in ‘Next’,” Charlie says, “is to bring out the serious in the comic and vice versa.” Scot describes “The Insanity of Mary Girard” as a “haunting and highly theatrical piece.” The plot explores, in a “fascinating” manner, the consequences of a mysterious historical incident in which a certain Mr. Girard of a famous Pennsylvania family committed his pregnant wife to an insane asylum.

Rupert Barber gives a directing grimace.

The next pair of one-acts (20-21 Jan.) is “The Lesson” by Eugene Ionesco, directed by Roy Fuller, and “No Exit” by Jean-Paul Sartre, directed by Bill Crone. He says, “I thought about doing Ionesco’s ‘The Bald Soprano’, but I have seen it performed and I didn’t want to have that performance influence my ideas. So I read ‘The Lesson’ and liked the depth of the characters a lot.” Bill Crone, on the other hand, chose “No Exit” because he had seen it: “I saw it when I was in high school, and I didn’t agree with some of the interpretations. So I want to apply my own ideas in this production. So far I have just been reading as much as I can on Sartre and his philosophy before I tackle the script itself.”

By Anderson Scott ’84

Like all the student directors, Bill and Roy have to edit their plays for purposes of time and personal preference. Their job, however, has an added dimension in that there are several different translations of these plays. Bill has chosen a translation by Paul Bowles, who emphasizes the theatrical a bit more than the philosophical in “No Exit.” Roy is working with an American translation of “The Lesson” while borrowing phrases occasionally from a British translation.

The next weekend (27-28 Jan.) brings “Hands across the Sea” by Noël Coward, directed by Todd Cowdery, and “A Good Time” by Ernest Thompson, directed by Suzann Smith. “Hands” is a “quick and careening drawing room comedy” set in the 1920s. In Todd’s words, “Piggie the perfect hostess lacks only one thing: the name of the couple whom she is so graciously entertaining.” “A Good Time,” written by the author of “On Golden Pond,” displays, as Suzann says, “the author's unique blend of wit and heart” in this tale of falling in love in “the zany world of New York City.”

The final weekend (10-11 Feb.) offers “The Actor’s Nightmare” by Christopher Durang, directed by Loy Thornton, and “I’m Dreaming but Am I?” by Luigi Pirandello, directed by Eric Fichtner. Loy describes “Nightmare” as a “very funny and interesting ‘play within a play’ in which a man wanders onto the stage of a theatre, is mistaken for an actor, and finds himself in the lead role of a play.” Eric’s play is a study of “what happens when one person is more in love than the other.” “I read a lot of Pirandello,” says Eric, “and I am particularly impressed with his ability to achieve depth of feeling in a single act, because this is a very difficult thing to do. This play (‘Dreaming’) exudes intensity unusual for a one-act.”

Tryouts for the last three weekends of the workshop plays have not taken place yet. Tryouts are open to all Davidson students, and texts of the plays are on reserve in the library under “Theatre Workshop.” The remaining tryouts are scheduled for 14 December, 4 January, and 18 January in the workshop theatre from 3-5 p.m. So be you actor or audience, prepare yourself for the upcoming dramatic season.

---

ON ANYTHING OF VALUE

- component sets
- stereos and speakers
- name brands
- cameras
- musical instruments
- golf clubs

19400 Statesville Rd., Cornelius N.C. 28031
* Call for directions *

SCOTT T. MIKEAL, JR.
OWNER & MANAGER ‘come by and browse

THE DAVIDSONIAN/10 December 1982

704-892-3113

OPEN 24 HRS. A DAY

IS OPEN

AGAIN

Davidson students welcome
Checks accepted with I.D.