Charles Wright

Poet Returns To Davidson

Charles Wright will fly from Los Angeles International Airport to Douglas Municipal Airport sometime around the 15th of April. I
know from experience that it is one hell of a shock to leave the pressurized cabin and enter the South
in its throes of springtime. It almost chokes you after the processed smut of L.A. The white houses with creaky
front porches, the cobwebs and missing windows. The squirrels running along telephone wires carrying the good news, the buzzing insects.
And everything drenched in the memories that refuse to evaporate, warm and moist, fecund and yet deadly.

This is the stuff of Charles Wright’s poems. The vines of his creativity are firmly rooted in this rich southern
soil, and he will be returning to it next week for his 25th class reunion. (Davidson College, B.A., 1957) In
Wright’s poems, the span of 25 years is a significant one, things seem to run in cycles of a quarter
century. At that distance, it is possible to take a fresh look at the past. Well, Charles Wright will be
here at Davidson for the first time since his graduation, and while he’s here he will give a reading of
some of his poems and also present the Vereen Bell Prizes. Make sure to hear his reading; it’s not often
we get visiting poets here at Davidson.

Wright was born in Kingsport, Tennessee and attended prep school at Christ Church near Arden, N.C. After that, he came
to Davidson where he was, at various times, a writer for the Davidsonian, co-editor of Scripts 'n Pranks, President of
the SAE’s, and a history major. He left Davidson for the army at 21, went to language school and was
then shipped to Italy for three years which had an enormous effect on his poetic career. He developed a great
interest in Italian poetry, especially Montale, whose works he has translated extensively. Wright also followed Ezra Pound when he could,
listening to his readings, though he never actually introduced himself. “I never could figure out just what to say to
him,” laughed Wright in our telephone interview.

I was a little nervous about what I would say to Charles Wright when I called to talk to him,
but he proved to be very warm and very human. (He had to interrupt our conversation to keep his son
from accidentally burning down the house with a sterno stove. Fortunately, his wife Holly came to the rescue.) He lamented
the fact that he very rarely had the opportunity to visit the South. Wright currently teaches at the University of
California at Irvine, a position he took as a temporary job, but he’s been there fifteen years now and yearns
to come back to the South. He was greatly cheered to learn that mandatory chapel was no longer a Davidson
tradition, and that alcohol was allowed on campus.

I also learned that Italy proved a fertile soil for Wright's transplanted imagination. It seems that you have to leave
the South (at least once) in order to write about it, and Wright felt a great kinship with the lush
landscape and the omnipresent weight of the past in Northern Italy. This atmosphere evoked memories of Wright’s own childhood in
Tennessee and North Carolina. “How sweet the past is, no matter how wrong, or how sad” goes the line from
his recent poem, “The Southern Cross.”

At his best, Wright takes moments from his past and crystallizes them in precise poems with a keen intellectual edge.
The organizing principle behind his poetry is spatial, not causal, and each glittering, highly polished poem is arranged as part
of a mosaic. Each piece is a part of a larger picture or vision which is yet to be realized.
His poem, “The Killing” presents a striking metaphor for the re-emergence of his memories as poems:

(And like, in childhood, those bits of glass
Taken into the flesh—which disappear,
Which leave no mark—will these, too surface
In 25 years or so,
Uncolored, unedged, from our skin?)

However, the bits of glass, the poems, are not called forth easily, and sometimes it seems like they have required
surgical removal. I feel that Wright sometimes over-intellectualizes. In the second stanza of “The Killing” Wright uses “Electroencephalogram” as a
simile for a Virginia creeper, and I don’t think anyone could pull that off successfully.

Another side of Wright’s poetry is represented by “Laguna Blues.” “Something’s off-key and unkind/ Whatever it is, it bothers me
all the time.” It is helpful to remember that his poetry is “the spontaneous overflow of powerful emotion recollected...” in
California, which may well be the antithesis of tranquility. Of California, Wright says he “feels isolated, which is good for
writing, but I’d rather be in Chapel Hill or Charlottesville.”

Charles Wright is an alumnus of Davidson College and shares many experiences and frustrations common to most of the students
here. He is also a very successful and well-respected poet who is excited about this chance to revisit Davidson. Wright
is a regular contributor to the New Yorker (see his latest poem in the April 5th issue) and the Paris
Review. Wesleyan University Press has published his five books, which are all available in the library. I strongly urge you
to look at some of his poems before going to hear him read, and give a quick thought to what
it means to live in the South. While reading, watch out for some of his recurring images. He does interesting
things with hands, gloves, stars, scars, and poisons. Once again, don’t miss hearing him read, and if you get the
chance, introduce yourself! Even if you can’t think of anything profound to say.

Lee Torrence

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9 April 1982
