Film Reviews With Debbie Eisenbise

At F Rous bk i aoatie is a marvelous assortment of tragic drama and light. Even the individual can let
all those latent emotions surge forth. Although not all of these will challenge the intellect, there is enough of that
in our everyday lives to be able to forego it now and then in our entertainment. Fine Films, which has
gained a sense of humor this term, is responsible for some fun that is open to all. The string began
with last week's Harry and Tonto and will continue with next Monday’s showing of Volpone and with Bedazzled on April
6. Two serious and thought-provoking films, Tess (March 26) and Breaker Morant (April 2), promise relations for the audience.

Thomas Hardy’s "Tess of the d'Urbervilles" unfolds scene by scene just as the novel does, constantly holding one in suspense.
Each new episode comes upon the viewer as a moment in his own life would, as something based on what
one has made of oneself, yet as an event that could never be predicted. Tess’ story is a woman’s story.
It is about a person who is never the primary actor in her own life, but who is manipulated by
her family, her seducer, and her husband, and who is torn apart by her struggle to maintain her own self-image
against all of the societal values she has come to adopt. In utter desperation, she finally acts on her own
behalf, sealing her fate.

While the story is a marvelous tragic drama, exquisitely acted by novice Nastassia Kinski and an excellent cast, the outstanding
feature is the cinematography. The location which Polanski set the story and how well it is captured on film provide
a paradoxically calm stage on which the intense emotions of the story are staged. If you did happen to miss
this film, pick up Hardy’s novel and vow not to miss the next Pop Film, which is Breaker Morant, a
movie of equal caliber to Tess. The Australian film industry that provided us last year with My Brilliant Career has
turned out another outstanding film in Breaker Morant. It is one of the most intelligent, yet heart-rendering films that one
can see this term.

SUMMER JOB OPENINGS FOR CAMP COUNSELORS at Camp Sea Gull (boys) and Camp Seafarer (girls)

Serving as a camp counselor is a challenging and rewarding opportunity to work with young people (ages 7-16). Sea Gull
and Seafarer are health and character development camps located on the coast of North Carolina and feature sailing, motorboating, and
seamanship, plus many usual camping activities including a wide variety of major sports. Qualifications include a genuine interest in young
people, ability to instruct in one phase of the camps' programs, and excellent references. For information and application, please write
a brief resume of your background and experience in the area(s) skilled to Don Cheek, Camps Director, P.O. Box 30976,
Raleigh, North Carolina 27622.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Book air about it; Breaker Morant is a realistic drama, an actual moment out of history from the start. It
is the story of the court martial of three men who are tried for committing murder in the Boer War.
It is the same scenario that was still being played in the Vietnam War; one that pivots around the problem
of spoken commands, and the question of who really is guilty in war. Jack Thompson won the award for the
best supporting actor in the Cannes International Film Festival for his role as the novice lawyer sent to defend the
three men. The three Australian volunteers, including the characters George Whitten, Breaker Morant, and Peter Hancock, became scapegoats for the
British in an attempt to keep pro-Boer Germany out of the war. The audience is drawn into the characters’ situation
and can share in their tense anxiety as memories of a pleasant past are juxtaposed with an uncertain future. The
movie is a tight weave of narrative and flashback that in no way disturbs the flow of the storyline, but
heightens one’s awareness of the characters’ states of mind so that one becomes enmeshed within the action. This is a
fast and powerful film, yet it remains realistic and believable. It is emotionally draining but leaves one wanting to see
it again.

After a few days rest, we turn to the lighter side for entertainment with Maurice Tourneur’s film version of Volpone
(Mon. April 5; 8 pm.). Adapted from Ben Jonson’s moralistic story about decadence and greed, the movie takes little thought
as it predictably moves forward and the man whose money is gained by swindling gets swindled himself. The storyline is
not of terrific interest, but the movie is well worth seeing for its humorous attributes. The intrigue and deception become
more and more complex and increasingly more ridiculous as the movie progresses. And throughout, each character who began as a
shallow fool becomes more of a true buffoon, giving up all for glorious money. The film is quite dated, but
the roughness only adds to the humor, if one does not look too critically for logical answers in the changing
of scenes and the progression of time. For those of you who are Francophiles, Ben Jonson fans, or Three Stooges
connoisseurs (an odd trio, to be sure), you will thoroughly enjoy the witty Volpone.

Following in the footsteps of this week’s Harry and Tonto, Dudley Moore presents to us another comedy centered around one
man’s search to find himself. Moore, who stars in his own adaptation of Faust, finds his way to happiness through
a quick deal with the Devil (Peter Cook). Bedazzled is a silly movie with no great underlying moral to be
found. There’s not a serious moment in the film and in going one is in for two hours of immersion
in laughter. It’s a great way to break up the week and let yourself go!

Debbie Eisenbise ‘82

For further...

"Serving Davidson For Sixty Years" - Russell Stover Candies 131 N. Main Street © Davidson, N.C.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982
