What Cost Sanction?

It is December, 1981. In Western Europe, a new socialist government is in power in France. West German Chancellor Helmut
Schmidt is being increasingly criticized as his nation’s economy continues its downturn. Unemployment throughout Western Europe is very high. Western
Europe is still dependent upon Mideastern oil. Across Western Europe, there is an anti-nuclear "Green Movement" that is focusing on
preventing a new generation of American medium-range nuclear missiles (Pershing II) from being deployed in Europe. In the United States,
a conservative Republican President is in power and his Secretary of State is a controversial figure. And the Polish army
declares martial law, effectively giving General Jaruzelski powers of army, state, and party. This ends months of labor unrest and
pressure from the Solidarity free-trade union, the only such union in the communist world. The growing economic troubles and the
communist party’s unpopularity are a great source of anxiety to the Soviet Union, Poland’s neighbor, bankroller, leader of the Warsaw
Pact, and principal supplier of raw materials.

It is in this atmosphere that President Reagan announced his version of economic sanctions against the Soviet Union and Poland
on December 29, 1981, only several months after having lifted the grain embargo against the USSR imposed by President Carter
for the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Given this context, sanctions must be viewed in their proper perspective: a symbolic gesture
of displeasure toward the Soviet Union and the Polish Council for National Salvation, headed by General Jaruzelski. Assuming the sanctions
are honored by other nations, this objective may be realized, but at what cost to the Polish population, the American
business community, or perhaps most important, to the cohesion of the NATO alliance, and West German-American relations in particular?

The sanctions announced by President Reagan include the cancellation of port-of-call rights for Soviet and Polish fishing trawlers; the ending
of Moscow-New York air service by the Soviet airline (amounting to two flights a week); the suspension of licenses to
sell high-technology goods to the Soviet Union and Poland; and the suspension of talks on future grain agreements—but not of
grain exports themselves. Another side effect will be a dry well for the Soviet Union and Poland with Western banks
to which Poland is especially indebted. Here the question must be asked: Who is this going to hurt? Quite possibly,
fishing will be curtailed in U.S. controlled waters, to the detriment of Polish, as well as Russian, grocery store shelves.
Besides this, the embargo of high technology equipment will probably affect our ally, West Germany, since much of this equipment
was to be used in the construction of a natural gas pipeline from Siberia to West Germany, to help lessen
its dependence on imported oil. No matter; the equipment can be bought elsewhere, in Japan for instance.

And what about our allies? Why have they not responded in kind, as good allies should? For one reason, Western
Europe depends much more on trade contacts with the East than the U.S. Sanctions would greatly accelerate the economic troubles
in Western Europe. In addition, to some Western European leaders, this American reaction only seems to confirm the Greens’ conception
of Reagan and Haig as the “Mad Bombers,” making the nuclear issues even more thorny. Moreover, sanctions represent a skewed
approach to Western Europeans who see mutual trade, dependence, and cooperation for peaceful coexistence as more effective—and a good deal
safer—than trade and association as weapons. Certainly, European caution cannot be chalked up to apathy since West Germany and other
nations have tremendous investment in loans and outstanding debts in Poland.

But, the most European perspective, and one which I think has remained lost on Americans, is what has become known
as the “Hungarian Lesson.” The Hungarian uprising in 1956, Czechoslovakia in 1968, and the prior Polish uprisings, have illustrated the
fact that Eastern Europe is the Soviet sphere of influence. Period. Trade and détente are possible, but Solidarity threatened the
power of the Communist party and Poland’s position in the Warsaw Pact. To aid Eastern Europeans in earnest would invite
superpower confrontation and possible nuclear war. This the West cannot do. Sad and deplorable as the Polish situation may be,
Russian intervention could have proved much worse for all concerned.If martial law fails, intervention is even more likely. In light
of all these facts, does the cost of sanctions seem worth it? What will they achieve? What could they provoke
if the situation becomes more serious? I confess I am in sympathy with Solidarity and its goals, and if symbols
are important, then I accept sanctions as important. But let’s not kid ourselves about their potential for bringing positive developments,
or more serious consequences for Poland or the U.S. and her allies.

Will Berson

Reds

The movie Reds, Warren Beatty’s dynamic brainchild, should have been filmed in black and white because of all the grey
areas it explores. It is a superstructure of interwoven personal and political tensions which suspends the viewer for three and
a half hours and does not let him down too gently. Co-written, directed, produced by, and starring Beatty, the film
incorporates the personal and public lives of the historical American Communist John Reed in a manner which answers far fewer
questions than it raises. Yet the decidedly un-cerebral viewer still enjoys the pleasure of seeing an appealing and emotionally engaging
story brought into living color.

The questions Reds subtly raises are legion. Not the last of these uncertainties is the dividing line between the actor
and his character. Reed, author of Ten Days That Shook the World, was much more intimate with Lenin than the
movie even implies. Beatty is obviously consumed by his role and must certainly be familiar with the man the role
portrays (having researched Reed’s life for 15 years), but he has not resolved the basic conflict he so skillfully sets
up: Is Reed a true-blue American journalist who happens to be an active communist, or is he a bogs Red,
willing to sacrifice his loved and sterilized character of Louise Bryant (played by Diane Keaton) to prove his ideological tenacity?

At heart, Reds is a love story. Beatty subordinates the more important political questions to the resolution (albeit effective and
emotional resolution) of the romantic uncertainty between Reed and Bryant. Concubine, comrade, or wife? Questioning the status of a romantic
relationship is Keaton’s cinematic forte, but heretofore she has had Woody Allen to counter-confuse the issue. In Reds, Beatty’s strong
and childishly willful character incites Louise’s bleak pilgrimage to follow Reed, even though it destroys her own moderate success and
stateside security. Keaton’s character ultimately is the true revolutionary. She helps the viewer anticipate the denouement by asking if men
and women can possibly live and love as equals regardless of which political banner they carry, or pretend to carry.
In this respect, Louise Bryant appears to be the true communist also.

John Reed has a revolutionary mind stuck inside a middle-class body. Though no armchair communist, he wavers between the comfortably
intellectual coterie of Greenwich Village activists and artists (including such notables as Eugene O’Neill, Max Eastman, and Emma Goldman) and
the stark realities of bone-crushing and painfully enacted revolution. I recall complaints from other back-seat critics to the effect that
Beatty is too pretty a character. This is precisely the point; Reed, as Beatty envisions him, wants Communist Russia to
be a mirror of his own handsome ideals. He doesn’t find it, or rather, does find it but shattered and
smudged. Fortunately, the lens of Beatty the director-producer is more whole. His casting is generally appropriate, and superb in the
cases of Eugene O’Neill (played by Jack Nicholson) and Emma Goldman (Maureen Stapleton). Another case of behind-the-set brilliance is the
use of “witnesses,” persons still living who actually knew the characters, to add both verisimilitude and some not-so-subtle humor (notice
especially the bald, slightly askew-lipped ex-pornographer Henry Miller and his matter-of-fact comments on “the couple”).

Although I am not trying to justify Warren Beatty’s I’m-not-such-a-hot-actor-but-now-you-know-I-can-write-and-produce attitude, I think Reds deserves our attention if not our
admiration. I could probably hyphenate this fine movie into an Academy Award based on my appreciation of it, but that
is not the point here. I would simply like to recommend Reds to the revolutionary and lover in all of
us.

By Andy Wilson ’84
