To the Editor:

Ivy “Malicious” Goodman, Tom “Perverted” Roth, and David “Emotional” Teer have expressed to me their resentment in being pronounced Communists
by GDI. No sorority sibling of ATO is a “commie” — with maybe the exception of John Shaw. All sheep
uphold the traditional American freedoms of speech, religion, assembly, and, of course, a laissez-faire economy.

Allow me to expound. The word “Commons” closely resembles the word “communism.” ATO, on the other hand, is where “Americanism
Takes Over.” Ole Glory shades our threshold.

We worship cheesecake, train wrecks, and manhood. We even rent all-American “Red, White, and Blue” brand beer (not that imported
green stuff!). In accord with America’s solitary stance against WHO’s infant formula code, we use Nestlé products regardless of the
fact that they kill babies.

We at ATO advocate all American activities such as flesh piles, back rubs, and mass murder. We watch James Bakker
every day at noon yet, in practicing freedom of religion, we allow the secular humanists in our house to watch
M*A*S*H at 5:30.

Economically, if America can remain No. 1 with a deficit budget, so can ATO.

One final comment reserved for Thurston Hatcher ’85 who has “never had any great yearning to see the faces of
the people who wash my dishes, much less do it myself.” I suggest you go home to your kitchen and
meet your mother sometime. I hear she’s a really nice person.

Signed,
Paul Q. Lazarro/ATO

Honor Council Forum

The Davidson Honor Council is sponsoring an Open Forum at 10:00 a.m. on February 3 in the Chambers Gallery. Central
to the Forum will be a dramatization that will show how action is taken for alleged Honor Code violations. This
simulation will illustrate the role of the Dean of Students Office, Student Solicitors, the Defense Advisors, and the Honor Council.
Each step of the process will be described and explained, from initiation of a complaint, through investigation of charges, to
the procedure at an Honor Council hearing. Following the simulation, all those involved with the process will be in the
Gallery to answer questions concerning the Honor Code, the Code of Responsibility, and the Code of Disciplinary Procedure.

The purpose of this hearing is to increase student and faculty awareness concerning the Honor Code and its operation. The
Honor Council decided that a simulation would be the best way to explain actions which must remain confidential during a
real hearing. One of the greatest problems on this campus concerning the function of the Honor Code is a general
lack of understanding on the part of students and professors as to how the system works. It is the hope
of the Council that this Forum will begin to clear the air of the large number of rumors and innuendoes,
and will help to make things run more smoothly and efficiently. The Honor Council as a whole urges all members
of the Davidson College Community to be in the Gallery at 10:00 Wednesday for this meeting.

James W. Cheek '82

Continued from page 1
though it has little resale value. Rusk President, Shannon Walters said that “Rusk would end up being a lot stronger.”
She mentioned two factions or types of girls who eat at Rusk are so different that social functions have to
be a compromise between the two factions, leaving no one happy. Walters said, “The only way to please everyone,” she
maintained, “is to separate the girls into two eating houses, instead of simply placing the girls on the waiting list
into the new house.”

Rusk has tried to accommodate its waiting list by exchanging its round tables for square ones and accepting 80 girls,
“which is too many to have a close house,” Walters said. Parties are too big, and the members don’t get
to know everyone. The fact that 45 women are still on the waiting list and three-fourths of them pay $50
per term to be social members attests to the high demand for another all-women’s eating house, she said.

“I could see where it could hurt some of the coed eating houses,” she added.

F&M President Joni Seehorn is a member of the CCRL and Patterson Court Council President. She is one of the
most outspoken opponents of the proposal. “A house has to have between 50 and 60 people to operate, and 70
to 80 to get any economy at all,” she explained. It needs a waiting list to offset the attrition rate,
and “You need 80 members to keep costs low. I don’t see any way to run a house under 50
without having costs soar,” she said. “I’m afraid the Commons will have a significant impact on membership. Putting another house
there is undercutting the present system.”

She adds, “If present admissions policies remain and they open another eating house of any kind, with a couple of
houses already in trouble, in a few years one will go under,” leaving the court with ten houses again.

Seehorn also objects to the idea of “spending the money to equip one house with kitchen facilities and then dismantling
another kitchen two to three years later,” when one of the houses fails.

“Nobody knows what the demand will be, and it doesn’t make any sense at all to open up another eating
house,” she concluded.

By Pete Gulyn '83

Out ACA Accredited camp specializing in water sports with added emphasis on land sports, is looking for boys and girls
between ages 9-16. Counselors must have the ability to teach in one or more of these activities. For more information
write: Camp Thunderbird.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 29 January 1982
