__ The Educational Policies Committee is currently considering a proposed change in the grading scale which would replace letter grades
with numbers between 0.0 and 4.0.

“Why do we even bother with letter grades?” asked Psychology Professor John Kelton, who first suggested the simplified scale at
an open EPC meeting on April 12. “Some schools report grades on a 100-point scale,” he said.

Professor Kelton cites several advantages. First, it eliminates the need to translate final letter grades to numbers. It also allows
professors to distinguish between different shades of “good” work by recording the student’s grade as a precise number between 2.8
and 3.2 instead of a simple “B.” “It gives you leeway,” Professor Kelton explained.

This latest plan should answer some objections to earlier proposals. The original EPC proposal, modeled after scales used in graduate
schools, would lower the average GPA by 0.2. Like the SGA’s alternate scale, the 4.0 point system would leave GPAs
relatively unchanged. However, the SGA’s scale was non-linear; that is, it made the point difference between a B- and a
C+ wider than between an A- and a B+.

Professor Kelton believes that, after using his scale for a while, teachers and students would stop trying to identify grades.
“I’m not unhappy with the present scale,” he concedes, “but if we need a change from the present system, then
this 4-point scale is preferable to the others we’ve looked at.”

But will a new grading scale increase competition between students? The SGA Senate debated the question in their Wednesday night
meeting but could not reach a consensus. Freshman Senator Ellen Papadeas said, “We would still like to have no change
at all, but it looks as though there will be a change.”

Religion professor Max Polley commented, “I think this will put more pressure on the students at exam time because every
point counts,” but added, “I think that’s all right. Students lose some, but they gain some.” Calling the finer distinction
between grades “neat, very accurate,” he emphasized that the 4-point scale would leave professors free to think in terms of
letters if they wish. “If a faculty member doesn’t like this system, then he can still call a B+ a
3.5. I’d announce to my class at the outset of the course which way I use.”

Many students view any change in the grading scale with distrust. Freshman Anne Morgan said, “This will increase competition. It’s
a really bad idea.” Sophomore Jason Ratteree expressed a common view when he asked, “Why don’t they leave it the
way it is?”

The members of the EPC want to hear more suggestions, criticisms, or questions from the students before voting again Monday
afternoon. Students on the committee are Bill Purcell and Todd Cowdery. Vice-president Zimmermann will also accept comments until Monday.

If adopted by the EPC, Professor Kelton’s proposal will be voted on by the entire faculty. “If we’re going to
make any proposal, we’d like to make it at the May 3 faculty meeting so that it can go into
effect next year,” he said.

Diana Bohrer ’85

In 1850, Maxwell Chambers donated $250,000 to Davidson—a highly substantial gift by pre-Civil War standards. At the time of Chambers’
gift, Davidson was the wealthiest school south of Princeton. That donation, which made Chambers building a reality, piloted a tradition
of generous gift giving that has extended over a century of Davidson history.

Throughout the years, other gifts to Davidson have brought every dormitory, the library, the gymnasium, and the Commons into existence.
Davidson continues to receive extraordinary donations—most recently $1 million from E.H. Little for the library which bears his name. In
fact, roughly 35% of Davidson’s annual operating budget depends on direct donations or revenue from endowment which the school receives.
The Davidson program, if it did not rely on gift giving, would be 2/3 of what it is at present,”
Director of Special Resources Julius Melton said.

Dr. Melton outlined three types of gift giving which Davidson recognizes: permanent endowment comprises cumulative gifts which are always invested.
The college spends only the income generated by these investments; presently, Davidson has a “healthy” $50 million in permanent assets
working for it, Melton said. Annual gift-giving includes the Living Endowment ($1 million for the first time, in 1981), the
Wildcat Athletic Fund, a strictly sports-oriented fund, and WDAV support. Annual gifts or direct donations are absorbed almost immediately into
the college expenses in their entirety. Deferred gifts generally indicate that a donor has included Davidson in his estate plans.
These initial sums are invested, and then rendered to the college upon the donor's death. In the interim, interest

Davidson budget. Continued on page 6
