Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Jim McConkey

“Jim really has all the attributes we look for in the Davidson student-athlete, being an excellent student, a person who has a lot of strong personal characteristics, and moral values,” marvels Hussey. McConkey, at 6’8” and 230 lbs., plays for Collinsville High School in Collinsville, Illinois, and he’s heavily recruited. He’s a power player with a good shot, and that versatility opens up to Hussey a wide array of options, providing, of course, McConkey should choose Davidson. Recruiting ace Gerry Vaillancourt says McConkey is “a strong, physical player that can also play the finesse game. He does all of the things necessary to make a great contribution to the program.” The praise doesn’t stop there either. Coach Hussey makes it explicit that each prospect have an understanding, unselfish attitude that contributes toward team play. McConkey again gets the nod. “He truly understands the importance of team concepts. Even though he has the ability to be a dominating player, he understands sharing his talents and abilities within the team in order for the team to do well. To me, this is always a quality we try to recruit,” Hussey comments. Davidson sees McConkey as a superior student in the center or low post, but particularly as a center prospect. As Vaillancourt puts it, McConkey is a “class individual who fits into the Davidson College program.” With a little luck, McConkey will have that chance to fit in. Hussey adds, “He has so much to offer us, and we have so much to offer him in terms of his career goals, we feel it would be an ideal situation.” The fate is in his hands.

Bill Pollock

Bill Pollock is the type of player that gets a double-take from scouts. You see, he’s very active, and his hustle and hard work belie his 195 lbs., 6’8” body. Aside from that, he can shoot. “Bill will be a true, face-the-basket forward,” says Hussey. “He’s in the developmental part of his game right now. He’s getting better every time he plays, and it’s amazing to look at his development over last year.” Pollock is an unselfish player who passes well and knows the game. A senior at Cinnaminson High School in New Jersey, Pollock is interested in Davidson's outstanding pre-medicine program, and he loves to play surgeon with opposing defenses. He’s a finesse player who can hurt you because he’s such a good shot. If the defense plays the jumper a little too tightly, he has the ability to leave his man behind, take the ball low, and score points along the baseline or inside the paint. He runs well, and his remarkable shooting touch allows him to play the high post or shooting forward. Pollock is on Hussey’s most wanted list, and his perimeter talents combined with the power of a Kenny Wilson would make Bill Pollock a real plus for the Wildcats.

Chris Troutman

Chris Troutman, at 6’0” and 165 lbs., is the type of player every coach would want to find beneath the Christmas tree: a pure point guard. He can handle the ball, he can pass the ball, and he can shoot the ball. And he does it all exceptionally well. “Chris has all the personality characteristics we look for. He has good morals, a good attitude, and is a great team player. He’s highly motivated as a basketball player and a student.” Anything else, Coach Hussey? “He has worked very hard in his...”

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation while correcting OCR errors.early career to develop himself into a true point guard. He really wants to play.” Okay, okay, we get the picture! The kid can play ball! Troutman’s home is Elizabethton, Tennessee, where he is coached by Len Dugger, one of the bright young coaches in the state. To match, Troutman is one of the bright young point guard prospects in the South, and the Davidson coaching staff isn’t the only one which sees it that way. His ability is just one of the reasons: Troutman is Davidson’s number one point guard prospect. According to Hussey, “He’s a true point guard. He always has been and he always will be. He takes pride in that.” That pride comes out on the court, to be certain. He loves the pressure situation. Excels at it, in fact. Hussey & Company are hoping Chris Troutman will find Davidson the showcase for his talents.

Ted Wolfe

Ted Wolfe, a 6'8” 205-pounder, is the ideal Davidson prospect and the ideal Davidson basketball prospect as a big forward or center. And the superlatives don’t stop there for the native of Arlington Heights, Illinois, interested in pre-law and business as possible majors. “Ted Wolfe is a power forward who plays with a great deal of intensity. He’s going to be so much better as a sophomore 6'9” player. He plays with so much intensity he'll make up for any physical disadvantages,” says an admiring Hussey. Wolfe has a great attitude, and one of Bobby’s Husseyisms is “Attitude determines altitude.” If that’s the case, then Wolfe could send the Wildcat program skyrocketing. He’s a classy person and an excellent student who excels just as well in the ABCs of shooting the ball, for a jumper with uncanny accuracy. Vaillancourt calls him an “active, cerebral type of player,” a “definite must” for the program.

Wolfe, a senior at Arlington High School, is a strong inside player who has the team attitude crucial to a Bobby Hussey player. “In recruiting I have specifically asked our people to recruit not only talent, but guys who are going to be team players.” Ted Wolfe is a player with all the necessary qualities to be successful in the Davidson program and to help the program itself be successful at the same time. Hopefully Davidson’s is the right program for him.

Well, ‘tis the season to play roundball, and Coach Bobby Hussey is hoping that his season’s greetings will include several greetings that say, “I’m coming to Davidson.” The Wildcats are looking for a rather large entering class of six or seven members. Many of these have narrowed their choices down to Davidson and one other school. From that point on it’s 50-50, but the hardworking young coaching staff could well swing the odds in Davidson’s favor. Let's keep our fingers crossed.

Athlete of the Week

Cliff Tribus, Basketball

Cliff, a 6'10” junior from Essex Falls, New Jersey, had a phenomenal week as the basketball team went 2-1. Against Furman he scored a career-high 24 points and grabbed 13 rebounds, a career high as well. In the win over Western Carolina his hot shooting kept the Wildcats in the game in the second half en route to a 21-point performance. His 20 points last night against Marshall were game high for Davidson. Cliff was chosen Southern Conference Player of the Week, but we don’t know whether that honor or this is more prestigious. Congratulations, Cliff.