| Having given you a week’s reprieve from Travels with John, O best beloved (see Speculative Notes), I shall return to the road this week. It seems that we sometimes tempt disaster, sometimes tease it along, and sometimes we downright beg for it. But rarely does disaster come along completely of its own accord. This tale is of one such instance—completely unenticed tragedy.

The endeavor began innocently enough. My friend Eric and I were simply trying to come to Davidson after a cozy three-week Christmas vacation. I was a sophomore then, eagerly returning to further pursue my liberal arts odyssey. Eric, then a wizened college senior from West Virginia University, was merely along for the ride. As anyone from much north of here can tell you, the...

...have dinner with and begged off. This was not made easier by the fact that there was a particular daughter in this family that was providing my young hormones to be oft, but it is the only thing connecting Southern West Virginia. Which is why we and my dear daddy’s V.W. Rabbit were on it this fateful January day. It was one of those days that your mother (at least my mother) always warns of—just enough ice on the road that you don’t think about it, and just enough off-and-on snow that you don’t notice when it’s starting to get worse.

There wasn’t even an exclamation point at the end. An interesting thing about disasters is that they are usually flecked with bits of beneficence that after four years as a religion major I still haven’t figured out. Although it was a holiday Sunday on a narrow, busy road, we had both lanes to ourselves at that moment. So after getting a pretty good look at both shoulders of the road, the car settled neatly against one of those reflector poles that the Turnpike puts out there for us to hit. My first accident. Faithful exponents of existential humor that we were, we drove on, a crumpled door handle and creased rear panel reminding us of the vagaries of the physical world.

The next hour or so is a southbound blur in retrospect, but the rear becomes much clearer. But unfamiliar mechanical noises were nothing new to us children of technology—objects are remarkably good at siege warfare. I had checked the oil before leaving Virginia. We were in the middle of nowhere with the rest of the world, i.e., Dixie.

Soon two leathery machinists pulled over to see if they could help. After hearing a quick rehash of the events and sound effects leading up to the current state of affairs, they responded with that “Hoo-boy” that every mechanical moron dreads to hear from somebody who knows something about cars. The gentlemen further elaborated by informing us that we had probably “thowed a rod.” With this injunction ringing in our now blue ears, we quietly crept into the kind men’s car, accepting their offer of a ride to a phone. They did their best to cheer us up, as our flags were pretty much at half-mast by this time.

Arriving at a Burger Chef, I did three things. I called my friends in Winston-Salem, who I had planned to visit, with a considerable degree of distraction. Then I called my dad, to tell him that we were the victims of a technical difficulty of an as yet unknown nature. I managed to skip the part about the collision, out of deference to his fragile condition. At a doddering forty-eight, I figured he deserved gentle treatment. Something told me he would know all things in their time. The third thing I did was to discover that the only towing facility open to us was back in the direction we had come from.

Our second benefactor bears considerably more cause for description than those who picked us up first. He drove a rusty red van with carpet on every inside surface, carrying twelve huge rolls of kraft paper that he was delivering somewhere in Tennessee. He was working on what appeared to be his third six-pack of Miller ponys, one of whose empties was balanced on his prodigious belly, collecting tobacco spittle. His name was Bill. He was in a mood to talk.and Eric and I weren't, so it worked out pretty well. The ride back to Bland was a short one, and as there was not but one exit, I got out there and started walking down the snow road in search of Casto Wrecker Service, my one hope for some degree of resolution of the conflicts that were wracking my soul. Bill drove on with Eric, ostensibly to take Eric on to wait with the car. Well, just after I jumped out of the van, I later hear, Bill expressed a particular interest in Eric’s all-American features and curly golden locks. Eric politely and I’m sure very directly picked up Bill’s rather extravagant invitation, telling Bill that I would worry if he left. But all this did not deter me from finding Casto’s place, waiting for him to finish up the re-run of “The Newlywed Game.” 

I found him there, where he sat in his garage, the stove roaring. Although a little slow, Mr. Casto was very helpful. Since my troublemobile was just a few miles down the road, he offered to go get it with his pickup truck and tow chain (for about $10) rather than get out his wrecker and make an official run (about $40). I guess he figured from my description of the car’s plight that I'd be strapped enough as it was. By the time that was all over, Eric, Mr. Casto, and I were standing at the tow-a-rama, darkness was moving in, and prospects for the night looked bleak. There was nothing more to do about the car at that time, and the fact remained that I had to get back to school. Entropy was at one of its all-time peaks in my life. I called some friends in Winston-Salem who are more used to my erratic ways than most, and told them that if we could manage a ride to Wytheville, we would catch the bus and be there to spend the night. They were more than accommodating, especially on hearing that we might or might not be there by midnight. What I hadn’t mentioned, because I hate to hear myself say these sorts of things, is that it is very difficult for two desperate-looking late-adolescent males to thumb a ride on an interstate in the pitch dark, which was exactly what we had to do in order even to make it to the bus stop. What was more, our time in which to do this was rather limited, partly because it had become too cold to stand outside for long and partly because the bus was not going to wait forever once it got to Wytheville. On saying goodbye to Mr. Casto, I was quite apprehensive about the situation.

My distraught state was considerably improved by our two-mile walk back to the interstate, carrying what possessions from the scuttled car that we could. Our arrival at I-77 was met by a vision of that late-night traveler’s Mecca, the All Night Truck Stop, its yellow and orange signs and lights a beacon to the road-weary. Which we were. I went in and immediately went to use the phone, hoping to find out just what time the Winston-Salem bus was leaving Wytheville. As I dialed, this scene was taking place outside—a dramatization: 

Sweet young tired woman pulls in for gas and a rest. Eric spots his opportunity. 

“Howdy. Goin’ south?” 

SYTW: “I don’t know. I’m trying to get to Winston-Salem.” 

Eric: “Great! So am I. May I have a ride?” 

Before she has time to answer, Eric is piling our luggage into her already overflowing back seat. 

“There. Now let's go in and get my friend.” 

SYTW, of course, didn’t know what to say. She later said that it was only the genuine look of relief on my face when I was informed that we had a ride that stopped her from screaming for help. Since she had a car and since I knew how to get to Winston-Salem, I think it helped our case somewhat that she was from there. She had been driving alone for ten hours and was going batty. In case you don’t recognize it, she too was one of those flecks of beneficence that appear in even the strangest misadventure. God bless you, Nancy Vauder-whatever your name was. We made it. 

By John Hartman, ’82