$ for the work of students here, and that the individual departments want to keep their professors within the departments. One can perhaps understand the desire to increase the professor:student ratio, thereby lightening the overall course load. However, there are only seven professors who teach part-time in the Center (the exception being Dean Bliss, who is full-time). There are about thirty students enrolled in the Center, and if that is too few, more could always be actively recruited. The whole idea of closing— What will replace the Center? Can anything integrate the various teaching methods and opportunities, to say nothing of its atmosphere and excellent relations for the professors and students who make it up? One needs the Center for Special Studies. It is not a luxury that we may have to cut. It requires senior theses, giving each student the opportunity to work out new ideas.

To the Editor:

I hope that most students realize my interest in and concern for the Davidsonian. I congratulate Cauley for his election and hope that he will consider all views and suggestions. I have done my best these past few days to encourage interest and involvement in our campus paper. Again, I hope that he will renegotiate. In these days of budget cuts, there are viable alternatives. We have a flashy new Commons, and lots of brick sidewalks. We have a costly football team.

James Gelly '82

To the Editor:

To students who want to design the intellectual life of the student on campus, the freedom to choose between a traditional major and an interdisciplinary major is crucial. Students are involved now in majors such as European Studies, Neuroscience, Art and Language, and International Relations. The Center offers a place for students to meet, to work, and to participate. The proposal to close the Center raises several important questions: How many students does the Center have to have before it is “feasible?” Established years ago as the one College, the Center has evolved into its present interdisciplinary activities, which currently are carried out with only two and one-half professors teaching from one-sixth to one-half time each. To preserve and to enhance the intellectual activities now taking place, the Center needs and deserves the continued and active encouragement of the faculty, administration, and students.

Yours,
Frank W. Bliss
Director, Center for Special Studies

The Brothers of K appeal to all students: get involved in your paper. Let the staff know of your interest. I have found this experience a rewarding one. My thanks go to everyone who participated in our campus events.

Jeb Benedict

To the Editor:

I am glad to be able to tell you that P.U.G. now has a U-F.D. The name of the UFD is SYSGOPUS, and you may attach to it as a non-owner. We intend for the PUG directory to be similar to the systems catalog on the old PDP-8F system, serving as a repository for the programs written by students and professors and data-sets containing useful information.The files in the directory are set up so that any non-owner can read them, but not modify them. The owner password is needed to change any of the data-sets, to add a new data-set, or to delete an old one. We are now in the process of accumulating programs and data-sets for inclusion. If you have anything which you feel would be appropriate for inclusion in the PUG directory, please let us know. I can be reached at 1-664-4157 (Box 1348) or you can contact Jim Northrup at the same number (Box 1066). We encourage you to ATTACH to the PUG directory every now and then to see what is available. The member DIRECTORY is a listing of all the files in the directory with a brief explanation of each. We hope that you have something to contribute.

Sincerely,
Robert Jenks

To whom it may concern:

Due to various reasons, the Brothers of the Kappa Alpha Order, at our annual meeting to consider our spring social calendar, have determined not to have Old South Weekend this year. Other alternatives are under consideration. We, the ATO representatives in Germany, are writing to express our sympathy with the heroic efforts of our comrades in Davidson to reestablish our once sacred but now dwindling traditions. We, in doing our part, have taken control of the university in Marburg. The taking over of 20,000 students was a monumental task, but for the honor of Davidson, we feel it was worth it. So Europe is taken; we fly to Japan next week. Zeros of the world are indeed uniting! Sayonara!

Fred Broadwell
Mark Phillips

Editor, The Davidsonian:

The Davidsonian has never been mistaken for the National Review, at least not since I have been a member of the student body, but to be honest I would not be surprised to see Hendrik Hertzberg’s signature beneath the editorial comment after reading the balance of the paper. Was I reading The New Republic or the Davidsonian, or is the latter an offshoot of the former? I very much enjoyed Elizabeth Kiss’ perspective piece and saw the usefulness of a number of the articles, but do Davidson students desire a fine arts dominated attack on the status quo for a campus newspaper? Two lengthy articles on art history and the visual arts, in addition to several questionable photographs and/or sketches, would seem to be a little extreme for one issue. Why not save a few such entries for future Davidsonians?

Also, John Hartman’s comments that a naked child was “probably getting more parental (or whatever) attention than the average modern suburban moppet does anyway” is hardly acceptable. (I assume that such attention was qualitatively positive.) And Stewart, were you really accosted by a couple of misdirected Buford Pussers and Jackie Gleason? Was your experience in South Carolina really analogous to that of Poles in the streets of Gdansk? C’mon, Stewart, you are the editor of this publication, you can do better. Lastly, the layout and handwritten print of your paper left something to be desired.

My name is not William F. Buckley, Jr., but I would like to read a quality, well-rounded, and balanced newspaper. Please print material of more pertinence to all Davidson students and from both sides of the ideological spectrum, i.e., economic discussion, foreign policy analysis, theological debate, etc. Notice that I do not advocate a complete shift to the Right, but rather a balanced perspective; my objective in writing is to build up, not to tear down!

Van Beck
Henderson House