Growth is No Kind of Goal

Bill Bargmann’s rather opinionated article of last week establishes him as the leading campus spokesman for the “new Right,” or
what I call “neo-mercantilism.” More than anything else, Bill’s article was about The Market: it works, he says, universally. Free
Trade and Capitalism work. The NIEO (New International Economic Order) distrusts Free Market Forces. Mr. Hess enjoys maligning Reagan’s phrase
“the magic of the marketplace.” Mr. Bargmann is sadly mistaken if he takes someone’s interest in the NIEO as proof
that someone distrusts “what has worked for us,” meaning the Market.

Anyone who knows any economics at all will agree that the market is the most efficient way of allocating resources.
We got that in ECO 101 along with Adam Smith and Malthus and Ricardo. And when we had learned all
that 18th-century theory, we moved on to such esoterica as market imperfections and monopoly capitalism. We learned about many of
the things which disturb the smooth workings of the venerable Mr. Smith’s metaphysics. For instance, Smith was a man of
his times and his class, and he assumed that the workforce naturally hovered around a subsistence level: Too many workers
will lead to lower wages, some starvation or emigration et voila(!) the body of laws to be ratified by some
global government, go back and read it again. It is rather an important set of values that could do with
a bit of attention.

The NIEO is a description given by rational men of our predicament: the madness of devoting our best minds to
neutron bombs and electric toothbrushes whilst a majority of the world knows only squalor, disease, and despair. If you disagree
with the motives behind the NIEO, then have the honesty to admit that all you care about are your comfortable
surroundings and privileged lifestyle. The NIEO is an expression by good men that the way this world allocates its resources,
never mind your 18th-century faith, is immoral. Don’t sit there and tell decent people that the NIEO is some pathetic
set of resolutions passed by some air-head intellectuals, complaining about “the way the world really works.” Your world really would
be hermetically sealed if you believed that.

Mr. Bargmann writes that Mr. Hess emphasized the transfer of resources brought about by our “desire” to reduce our standard
of living. Besides taking Mr. Hess’s open luncheon out of context, Bill has unwittingly revealed two current American obsessions: the
standard of living and a paranoia of the Soviet Union. As for the former, if Mr. Bargmann can’t look around
him and see the waste, the excesses, and the churlishness of today’s living standards, especially when compared to areas of
mass starvation, then saints preserve him.

"Miss NORTH CAROLINA/USA PAGEANT” ENTRIES OPEN!

The search is on to find Miss North Carolina/USA for 1982. The winner will represent her state at the 1982
MISS USA PAGEANT to be televised nationally on CBS. The 1982 Miss North Carolina/USA Pageant will be held March 5,
6 & 7.7th in Winston-Salem with the contestants as guests of the Downtown Ramada Inn. To qualify, applicants must be
between 17 & 25, single, never married, or been a parent. No talent competition required. FREE ENTRY INFORMATION CAN BE
OBTAINED AT FOOD WORLD STORES or send a recent snapshot, name, address, and telephone number to:

MISS NORTH CAROLINA/USA
C/O TEL-AIR INTERESTS, INC.
1755 NE 149th STREET
MIAMI, FL 33181
(305) 944-3268

Lisa Swift
Miss North Carolina USA 1981

Mr. Bargmann’s is a voice crying out in suburbia for “realism.” Well, what is less “real” than espousing Market clears
itself! So much for the invisible hand. I have seen it and it is shaky. My dear Mr. Bargmann, why
is it that such men as yourself and Mr. Reagan overlook the confusing complications of an otherwise pleasing theory? You,
for one, have no excuse. If you understood the NIEO as phrases and maxims from the 18th century? Laissez-faire, of
course, means “to leave to do.” In other words, it is the policy of inactivity. The NIEO is vitally important
because it is the statement that today’s predicament will not be solved by our inactivity. Mr. Bargmann, what is more
real than identifying the evils of today’s predicament and planning to remedy them? The author would suggest to Mr. Bargmann
that he check his “facts” and figures before another such endeavor. However much we may like or try to deny
it, the fastest growth rates the world has ever seen were in the USSR: more than a generation of 6-7%
per annum growth. These rates have slowed considerably, and the Soviet economy is in real trouble. But the point is:
when are we going to realize that Growth is no kind of goal. It may mean more and better for
some, but it also means more pollution and faster consumption of valuable resources. Growth has become an ideal in itself,
and it allows us to forget about some of the more urgent, if unpleasant, problems of today. Of course, we
need growth, of course, and the market works better than no market at all, but surely we can admit the
necessity of refining these raw concepts and tempering them with a bit of wisdom. And surely there is little to
be gained from taking so extreme a position as to be capable of no compromise.

James Gelly ’82

Continued from page 1

all-women’s house.” The only other major change from last year is that PAX became the most popular coed house, with
nineteen freshmen on the waiting list. PAX displaced Emanon from their former pre-eminence. PiKA placed 20 freshmen with three on
their waiting list. ETC took 25 people. F&M received 22 new members. Phi Delt gained seventeen new pledges and SAE
got 29. ATO added 20 new members. Emanon received eighteen members. PAX took 20 new members with nineteen on their
waiting list. KA got 20 new pledges, with nine on their waiting list.

by Jeffrey Mann ‘84

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982
