Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Women's Tennis Takes Knobloch Wins 4th Straight NCAIAW Crown

The women's tennis team won the state championship last Saturday at UNCC. Scoring decisively against its 13 competitors in the
NCAIAW Div. II Tournament, their overall score came to 64.5, 8 points above their strongest competition, UNCC, and 23.5 points
over 3rd place ECU.

The top 6 players won their singles in relatively easy matches in the 1st round on Friday. Sue Hilton lost
to top-seeded Buccaneer Katherine Tolsen in a tough semi-finals match. The other singles and all 3 doubles moved on to
the finals on Saturday. The finals looked like a Davidson-UNCC match with ECU making it to finals only in the
Number 2 singles.

Emmy Knobloch defeated Susan Romeo of UNCC 6-1, 6-3 to clinch her 4th straight NCAIAW title. No. 3 player Catherine
Smith was defeated in straight sets by UNCC’s Maybeck. Adelyn Lutz won No. 4 singles as she drubbed Kayton of
UNCC 6-2, 6-2. Adelaide Wilcox won in finals by default. Joanna Fleming, in a 6-0, 6-3 match, beat Dunlap of
ECU to win No. 5 singles.

Knobloch and Hilton took No. 1 doubles in a 7-5, 6-2 victory over Romeo and Brown (UNCC). Smith and Wilcox
lost in split sets of 6-7, 6-1, 6-0 to UNCC’s Maybeck and Kayton. Winning in a 2-6, 6-2, 6-4 match
over UNCC’s Dunlap and Ruff were Fleming and Ives, who claimed No. 3 doubles.

Says Coach Pat Miller on winning the state title, “On the whole, I thought we played well. Our toughest matches
in the state tournament were in the finals.”

After winning the state title, the team moves on to regionals, to be in Kentucky on May 13th-15th. At regionals,
stiff competition will come from William & Mary, Richmond, and the College of Charleston. Miller says, “In regional play, every
match we play will be at least as tough as the state finals.” Knobloch, Lutz, and Fleming should be seeded.
Wilcox would be were it not for an earlier foot injury. How well the Lady Cats do depends on how
they are playing and on the tournament seeding committee.

Denise Ferguson '83

---

How I Survived the Boston Marathon ... and Feeling Like An Unplugged Hoover

When I reached the first water stop on the Boston Marathon course, my mind drifted back to a concert I
had seen several nights before. At that concert, I witnessed for the first time what is commonly called slam dancing,
a type of activity in which human beings deliberately smash into each other, supposedly for fun. You may not think
there is a connection between slam dancing and marathoning, but then you have probably never seen hundreds of runners all
greedily reaching for a few cups of water either. The race may have brought out the animal in many of
the participants, but then perhaps only mad dogs and marathoners run around in the noonday sun.

The noonday sun was in fact a major concern for most of this year’s seven thousand participants. Raceday was bright
and humid, the temperature having mercilessly climbed to seventy degrees by the start. Great weather for those watching, but to
most marathoners such a day is about as desirable as malaria. When I learned in the early miles that I
could not even count on much shade along the course, I tried to placate my fears of death or, even
worse, dropping out by taking in fluid and slowing down considerably.

To justify to myself the change in pace, I decided to concentrate on the spectacle of the Boston Marathon. And
what a spectacle it was. All along the twenty-six miles of the course, some two million spectators were lined up
to watch, offering to the runners oranges, water, encouragement, and advice (“Go faster, you can still catch Salazar!”). The themes
from “Rocky” and “Chariots of Fire” were blasting out of apartment windows in an attempt to inspire the weary. The
highlight of the race for me was at Wellesley College where the students lined the roadside screaming encouragement to the
runners. I found myself not only running faster but also waving and shouting in return, although the roar of the
spectators was so great that I could not hear what I was yelling. Moments like this tend to make one
feel pretty important. Unfortunately, by twenty-one miles and the end of the infamous Newton hills, any feelings of omnipotence I
may have had succumbed totally to the harsh realities of the marathon.

Imagine, if you can, that you are a Hoover vacuum cleaner. As long as you are turned on, you can
cruise back and forth across the carpet, sucking up dust and grime. But when someone pulls the plug, all your
energy is dissipated and you are no longer able to traverse the rug looking for ground-in dirt. I felt much
like an unplugged Hoover after I passed the twenty-one mile mark. The difference between runner and vacuum, though, is that
the marathoner somehow keeps on going after the circuit is broken. Keeping that distinction in mind, I struggled onward and
finally reached the finish line a broken man, having alternated running and walking for the last three miles.

The heat, combined with my insufficient training, had taken its toll. I had run my worst marathon by fourteen minutes,
in contrast to Davidson’s other representative in the race, Marian Hill.

Half an hour after the race I was already planning my next assault on the marathon. Only next time I
hope to run farther and faster before the plug is pulled.

Gary Sullivan '83

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 April 1982

19
