On December 12, 1981, Jamhuri Day, the nation of Kenya celebrated its 18th birthday. It is a country younger than
most Davidson students. Students must accept that the decisions and responsibility for success or failure must be their own, but
both are usually not quite ready to do it alone.

I am going through the work I am doing as part of an international aid program and believe that Kenya
cannot sustain itself in terms of food, water, medicine, transport, and education without outside help. A small corner of Kenya
will get piped water from the UN Decade of Water program. The wheat, corn, and rice we eat here were
donated by Australia and the US last May. When I was in the hospital, the medicine I took was from
UNICEF, the blankets and bed from CARE, the doctor from Germany, the hospital from Catholic World Relief, and the nurses
were Sisters of Mercy. Our school building was from the Dutch agency NOVIB, the house I live in from the
Church of God Mission, the nearest road improved by the Norwegian government, and the nearest electricity brought by Italy. The
service that is coming is financed by the IMF. Many of the teachers, government officials, and advisors I work with
are ex-patriate volunteers or funded by foreign groups. One-fourth of the budget of the Ministry of Education comes from the
British Government. Kenya is also one of the stablest and most developed of the countries of Black Africa.

Ronald Reagan would be pleased and proud of the level of private international investment in Kenya. Nairobi is a glittering
international city with every amenity and business opportunity, and new building and expansion constantly going on. Nearly every important international
corporation with African interests has offices there and many have plants or distribution centers in the country. Kenya can attribute
a great deal of her development and Third World “success” to private sources, but also a number of increasingly disturbing
problems.

The gap between the richest and poorest Kenyans has trebled in the last ten years. An ex-patriate manager of a
corporation here makes five times as much in salary and benefits as its Kenyan counterpart. One glance at the book,
"Who Owns Industry in Kenya," published by the National Christian Council of Kenya and now banned, takes away any illusion
of balance. The earnings of major multinational corporations compared to those of the Kenya government are disturbingly out of proportion
and perhaps out of control. One of the most blatant and frightening examples I know occurred last May when Shell
Oil decided to withhold certain products and threatened to pull out of the country unless the government made concessions in
its price controls of various petroleum products. A showdown was avoided, but it was not Royal Dutch Shell who gave
in.

Another ongoing scandal with which I have personal experience is the vast quantities of contaminated, expired, and experimental drugs dumped
and “tested” in Africa by major pharmaceutical firms. I personally poisoned 13 people with paracetamol that had been knowingly contaminated
with aflatoxins in Italy and then shipped and accepted by the Kenya Ministry of Health. None of our students died,
but over 70 other Kenyans were not so lucky. In our local village shop, any mother can buy Nestle Lactogen,
mix it with river water that she doesn’t know to boil, and give her baby terminal diarrhea.

An American living in GNP no. 1 can be surprised or casually interested when reading about how many and how
highly various Fortune 500 corporations rank above many nations of the world in financial power. A Kenyan living in GNP
no. 107 should be alarmed and dismayed to see how many of these financial giants have interests and investments here.
Given the worldwide competition for such investment and the relative governmental capability of enforcement, you can imagine who wins in
questions of pollution, worker housing, plant safety, unionization, pricing, export licenses, foreign exchange control, and profit distribution.

Private investment certainly brings important benefits of employment, training, production, prestige, and stability to developing countries. It is not, however,
remotely in the interest of a private investor, nor can it logically be expected, for him to provide water, food,
hospitals, schools, sanitation, roads, or volunteers to help uneducated and malnourished rural populations. Furthermore, where profits are concerned, one with
power usually presses his advantage, and the type and amount of power a private corporation has in the Third World
can well be beyond the capabilities for meaningful control without outside help. It will be interesting to see what happens
in Ronald Reagan’s Jamaica. After all, look at the effects of private investment in Louisville on development in rural Appalachia.
