From the Recruiter’s Car Part II

“This is an important recruiting class for us. This is where we begin our tradition,” Gerry Vaillancourt is right. It’s
been a big year, and the program started some tradition. But a less conspicuous tradition than bringing in quality players
is how to bring in quality players. I again chanced into Coach Vaillancourt’s world of chuckles and grins (which has
turned into big, big grins after national signing day), and talk turned to how this young staff signed these six
young recruits.

“First of all, we sat down as a staff and we analyzed what our needs were at the beginning of
the year.” It took no great deductive genius on the coaches’ part to realize they needed to beef up the
front line. The classes of 1982 and 1983 were going to leave voids there. According to Coach Vaillancourt, if Davidson
starts out with twenty prospects, only six will qualify academically. “So now out of these six you find which one
of those players can make us a better team.” By the time they had that done, they were down to
about 20% of the basketball class of 1982.

Then Coaches Hicklin and Vaillancourt, having divided their regions into the Midwest and East, hit the basketball camps. There they
kept track of their prospects, and when they got together later on, they traded their notes on players. By that
time, there were very few players left under consideration. “Then,” says Coach Vaillancourt, “you start your depth chart. In other
words, who’s top priority, who’s somebody you really have to spend a lot of time with, etc., etc. Now you
screen them for interest level, and you do this by finding out who your competition is—what other schools are involved
with this particular prospect. That’s very important because there are times when you can recruit against the wrong people.” Davidson
would rather go up against an Ohio Valley Conference school than an ACC or Big 10 school.

Then the coach set about evaluating the other school’s needs. If both schools are going after a point guard and
the other school already has two freshman point guards, it’s a good guess they won't recruit as hard. “Also, you
have to look at the style of ball that you play,” Vaillancourt says. “This confuses a lot of people. A
program’s player A is a good player. To our program, he may be a great player, because that’s determined by
your system. That’s why players who are not highly recruited to go to a particular school pick the right system
and become very, very good players.

“Finally,” says Vaillancourt, “there comes a point when you have your staff meeting and you say, ‘We would like to
have these players. These are the players we have to have to get our program going.’ That’s very important, I
think, in recruiting. If a player wants to commit early, you may do things with that player that you may
wait to do with a player that wants to wait until April.” So the coaches sit down and map out
a plan of recruitment. They schedule home visits and times to watch practices.

Football: Basketball: All other sports: (Place “X" in proper box above)

Name of student Street Number

This is to certify my decision to enroll at:

1982 MEN’S NATIONAL LETTER OF INTENT (Administered by the Collegiate Commissioners Association)

Do not sign prior to 8:00 a.m. February 10, 1982 and no later than May 1, 1982
Do not sign prior to 8:00 a.m. April 14, 1982 and no later than May 15, 1982
Do not sign prior to 8:00 a.m. April 14, 1982 and no later than August 1, 1982

(Type proper name including middle name or initial)

Address

City, State, Zip Code

Name of Institution

IMPORTANT - READ CAREFULLY

It is important to read carefully this entire document, including the reverse side, before signing this Letter in triplicate. One
copy is to be retained by you and two copies are to be returned to the institution, one of which
will be sent to the appropriate conference commissioner.

However, these restrictions will not apply to me:
(a) If I have not, by the opening day of its classes in the fall of 1982, met the requirements
for admission to the institution named above, its academic requirements for financial aid to athletes, and the NCAA 2.000 GPA
requirement; or
(b) If I attend the institution named above for at least one academic year; or
(c) If I graduate from junior college after having signed a National Letter of Intent during my first year in
junior college; or
(d) If I have been in residence at that institution for at least eighteen (18) months; or
(e) If the institution named above does not offer such financial aid.

1. By signing this Letter, I understand that if I enroll in another institution participating in the National Letter of
Intent Program, I may not represent that institution in intercollegiate athletic competition until I have been in residence at that
institution for two calendar years and in no case will I be eligible for more than two seasons of intercollegiate
competition in any sport.Letter of Intent while in high school or dur-

(d) If I have not attended any institution (or attended an institution, including a junior college, which does not participate
in the National Letter of Intent Program) for the next academic year after signing this Letter, provided my request for
the originally specified financial aid for the following fall term is not approved by the institution with which I signed.
In order to receive this waiver, I must file with the appropriate conference commissioner a statement from the Director of
Athletics at the institution with which I signed certifying that such financial aid will not be available to me for
the requested fall term; or

(e) If I serve on active duty with the armed forces of the United States or on an official church
mission for at

(f) If my sport is discontinued by the institution with which I signed this Letter.

2. I understand that THIS IS NOT AN AWARD OF FINANCIAL AID. If my enrollment decision is made with the
understanding that I will receive financial aid, I should have in my possession before signing this Letter a written statement
from the institution which lists the terms and conditions, including the amount and duration, of

I certify that I have read all terms and conditions on pages 1 and 2, fully understand, accept, and agree
to be bound by them. (All three copies must be signed individually for this Letter to be valid. Do not
use carbons.)

SIGNED _ Student Date Time

SIGNED _ Parent or Legal Guardian Date Time

Submission of this Letter has been authorized by:

SIGNED _ Director of Athletics Date Issued to Student Sport

That’s when the work begins. “Now you sit down and you plan and you get a schedule as to the
means and the methods as to recruiting this particular player.

“All players cannot be recruited the same way,” he continued. “Some players like to be recruited for a long period
of time, some know right away where they want to go to school. You have to try to read that.

This year, however, they did a few things differently. “This year we came in late as a staff, so we
had to spend a lot of time with [six] key recruits. For example, Robbie went out to see a recruit
in the Midwest eighteen times. Now, that doesn’t always work with a prospect, but we’re fortunate that it worked with
these kids because we had a unique situation this year.

Normally, coaches will go to watch practices before they go into the home, but because this staff wanted to jump
on these key prospects, they went into the homes first. The home visits began last fall, before players had begun
practice anyway. Once in the home, a coach presents his program. Says Vaillancourt, “That’s a very important part of recruiting
because it’s a first impression. We will go into a home and we’ll explain the academics, get a feel for
the family, and allow them to get to know us. Then, when the timing’s right, according to the schedule, Coach
Hussey will go into the home, because when he goes in we will have already covered the academics, the idiosyncrasies,
all the other things. Then he can come in and the family meets him because this is the man you’re
gonna be playing for.” These visits can be anywhere from an hour to five or six hours. Coach Vaillancourt spent
7 1/2 hours with one family.

Vaillancourt continued, “So it got to the point where the families got to know us so well that they knew
everything we were all about, and we were able to demonstrate our sincerity very, very early.”

Then comes the player’s season, and for coaches that means going to practices and games, writing and calling prospects often,
and lots of the time on the road. Part of the big recruiting drive comes from alumni. “Our alumni help
us in recruiting tremendously. They will write the player. They’ll call the player at home. If the guy wants pre-law,
we’ll have alums in the law business explain the strengths of the program at Davidson. Now, of course, other programs
do the same thing. You have to do it in a way which makes Davidson seem unique.”

Which brings up an interesting question. Just what do other schools have to say about Davidson? According to Coach V.,
“Well, for example, they were saying we don’t have a commitment to a program, which is false. ‘You'll never win
at Davidson. They don’t play anybody.’ Now that’s a joke, because any intelligent person can look at our schedule and
see who we play. We overcame a lot of adversity, which is a compliment to the kids we recruited. They
saw through all the adversity.”

Next on the agenda is the all-important campus visit. The campus brings it all together, the truth comes out. And
in each case, when the coaches asked what was the decisive factor in

Continued on.
