Davidson Landing Under Way

First-phase construction begun

By JEFF HOLLAND ’84

The North Mecklenburg Development Company began construction last month on three model homes for their 35-acre Spinnaker Cove residential community development. Located north of Griffith Road and just east of I-77 at the Davidson interchange, Spinnaker Cove is the first part of the eventual development of all four quadrants around that interchange by the North Mecklenburg Development Co., according to Ron Kennerly, sales manager for the development.

The company has an option to buy the three remaining quadrants from the Lake Norman Company, which owns much of the area, and they have tentative plans for all the quadrants. The plan collectively will be called Davidson Landing, Kennerly said.

Thus far, however, the company has the go-ahead from the Davidson planning board only for the building of 39 single-family “cluster” homes, which feature a blind wall that allows the homes to be built close together without sacrificing privacy. The homes will be priced between $90,000 and $120,000.

An added feature of the community is its location on the lake. Many of the homes will be on the lake or have lake views. The community will eventually have facilities for small boat docking, a swimming pool, tennis courts, and a cabana.

The two and three-bedroom homes feature sunken living rooms, masonry fireplaces, vaulted ceilings, wood decks, and patios. The exteriors will be of stained wood siding.

The model homes should be completed by the end of November, Kennerly said, and construction will begin on the individual units on a pre-sold basis. Kennerly said he hopes to have sold all the units within a year and a half. Deposits have already been received on a number of homes.

In terms of future plans for the area, Kennerly said that the North Mecklenburg Development Company plans to present a concrete proposal for the southeast quadrant behind the Elox plant (which is zoned industrial) late in November. They are currently negotiating with a company that wants to locate its national headquarters there and the North Mecklenburg company is working on a plan for an office/condominium complex. Kennerly noted that this project may require a special use permit. Thus far the company has only gotten permission from the town of Davidson for a road in the southeast quadrant. Part of the northeast quadrant near the interstate next to Spinnaker Cove is also zoned commercial but Davidson Landing apparently has no plans for commercial development there. The two quadrants on the west side of I-77 are both zoned residential (see map).

“We're just getting organized now,” Kennerly said. “Making sure we’ve done our homework and touched bases with all the governmental authorities in Davidson. All this development will take place over a period of time.”

Davidson Mayor Nancy MacCormac said that when the proposal for Spinnaker Cove development came before the town planning board, some citizens voiced their concern about the amount and nature of the development.

“There was a general comment that there is a lot of development potential in the quadrangle area when the proposal came up about a year and a half ago,” MacCormac said. “A number of citizens expressed concern, but I wouldn’t really call it opposition.”

She said that she feels that the Davidson community as a whole supports a gradual and moderate growth of the town. She said most people recognize the necessity of growth, but they are also concerned with protecting Davidson’s small community atmosphere and quality.

MacCormac sees the growth of Davidson as part of a general growth in what is known as the southern “Sun Belt,” which runs all along I-85 from Virginia to Greenville. She said that as far as the College is concerned, the faculty at Davidson hasn’t grown much in recent years, and the College has managed to juggle their houses and others in Davidson to find places for its faculty. She does not expect the Davidson Landing Project will have much effect in that respect.

“We are located in a growth area,” she said. “This development is chiefly an area phenomenon, not really any reflection of the College’s needs.”

—Quality clothing for men and women

Class of ’86—a reminder to use your “Campus Welcome” coupon.

101 N. Main St. Davidson

Editor: Stewart Cauley
Executive Editor: Brian Butler
News Editor: David Resnik
Features Editor: Tom Pafford
Sports Editor: Steve Soud
Production Editor: Ann Meador
Photography Editor: Anderson Scott
Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams
Calendar Editor: Ivy Goodman
Business Manager: Lentz Ivey
Advertising Managers: Jeff Danese, Frank Hague
Graphics: Scot Myers
Editor Emeritus: Elizabeth Kiss

Staff: Lindsay Biddle, Paulette Kurani, Christi Baggett, Anne Lambert, Bill Barnett, John Lyday, Neil Cooksey, Ginna McGee, Mark Elmore, Laura McGee, Duncan V. Fraser, Elodie McMillan, Kara Gilmore, Matt Morris, Jonathan Glance, Peggy Pierotti, Jennifer Gotto, John Ruppenthal, Thurston Hatcher, Garry Sullivan, Rob Hollenbeck, Tom Schilling, Scott Huie, John Verdi, Joe Jaworski, Andrew Wilson

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone 704/892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $10 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage no. USPS 149-300.