Continued from page 13

Marsh’s “Pigs” and “Cows” results basically from his ingenious marriage of bright and earthy tones with black paper. The artist’s
loose and looming depiction of these shapes is far more convincing of living creatures than a clearly delineated one would
be.

Marsh again uses black paper to effect a gloomy atmosphere in “Dam, Dan River.” A particularly successful work, this riverscape
depicts a vaguely Hopper-like dam building whose windows court echoes of their own shapes in the falling water across the
dam.

However, the riverscape which blushes the most lyrical qualities is “Flooding Dan River.” Marsh both flourishes and tames startling color
in the diptych by limiting his use, for example, of the blue of far shrubbery but at the same time
juxtaposing it with muddy tones of the river to enhance it. Furthermore, the artist seems to tease Nature somewhat by
depicting a scene which includes several lines of bushes parallel to the picture plane amidst the rushing water, ranks of
stranded treetops, perhaps, which look suspiciously like the same row pictured from different angles as if they were separate entities.
As in “Pigs,” “Cows,” “Hydrangeas,” and certain other works, “Flooding Dan River” again presents a manipulation of similar shapes throughout
space, responsible for the large, assertive rhythm of the piece.

Regardless of the subject matter of the individual work, Robert Marsh displays in his oil crayon “paintings” color, texture, and
composition unified by their insistently masculine assertiveness and size. They deserve and demand more than a glance from across the
Gallery. Visit the exhibit: brave and breathe the bold Nature of Robert Marsh.

Linda Hulbert ’83

+ Jim Hawk and Jim Troutman

905-BA-2121

ON ACA Accredited camp specializing in water sports with added emphasis on land sports, is looking for potential counselors of
boys and girls between the age of 7 and 16. Counselors must have the ability to lead in one or
more of the camp’s activities.

For more information write Camp Thunderhead, Rt. 7, Box 5.

The Booze Brothers Hit the Milestone: Disgusting?

OK. We're ready to roll. Our hangovers have been dealt with and now it’s time to deal with that dump
we were in last week: Dump! Yep, that’s about the best way to describe that place. Even Gill Holland would
feel lost in that jumble of broken bottles, chairs, and tables. By the way, we’re talking about The Milestone, located
about a mile from I-85 at the Glenwood exit. Count on passing by the place three or four times before
you spot the plain, unlit sign that stands in front of the boarded-up, yellow house.

Once you get inside, you’re in for a real blow, especially if you’re accustomed to PJ, preppy women and juke
box beach music. The inside is dimly lit (obviously to hide the nastiness lurking within) and a faint herbal fragrance
pervades the air. The bar definitely has its unique qualities (if that’s the right word for it). Graffiti fills most
bare spots on the walls and conveniently does away with the need for beautifully framed Rembrandt or Ruben originals (see
T-bird, we did remember something).

The ragged walls are covered with the names of popular artists, such as the Dead Kennedys, Screamin’ S--ts, and Happy
Eggs. Bloody-looking footprints, punked-out collages, and peeling plaster induce the proper psychotic atmosphere for this bar, where bodily harm seems
to be the least of anyone’s concern. If you're expecting to do some shagging to such greats as the Rondells
or Chairman of the Board you’ve definitely landed in the wrong bar. We suggest you bring your shoulder pads and
sharpen up your elbows for this bar’s favorite mode of movin’, slam-dancing. If Ed Farrell wants to whip his boys
into shape, we suggest he send them down to this “joint” for the night. Who knows; if they can handle
the hitting there, they might even pull out that big one next year against Wofford (Go Cats!).

There were a few good aspects to this bar: you could sneak beer in instead of paying a dollar for
it (of course, we never did this, but some other guys did), Ice-9 played a rousing set of rock ’n’
roll and luckily, the Wogs (the back-up band) were forced to quit at 10:30 due to the city’s juvenile curfew
law.

In general, we had a great, but extremely bizarre evening. We plan to bring our good buddy Bill Bolding down
next week to get some ideas for remodeling Lafferty House. Till then, we wait anxiously for this week’s disco and
a chance to attend another exciting Rusk function.

Disco Update: Where was it? We went up there and nobody came... so we left. What happened? If you located
it, call us at 892-8707, otherwise forget it. It probably wasn’t any good anyway.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982
