Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Of young Marxist rockers from Leeds, this EP is significant for its allusion to the day-to-day capitalism of the bourgeoisie,
viciously satirized in the five songs in this package. With such titles as “To Hell With Poverty,” “Capital (It Fails
Us Now),” and “History’s Bunk!” a world-view of desperation and isolation, economic depression, and seedy futurism is matched with a
big beat and slashing dissonance.

Side one of the EP includes the aforementioned three songs, all studio recordings, while the second side features live recordings
of two songs from their last LP entitled SOLID GOLD—these songs are “Cheeseburger” and “What We All Want.”

“To Hell With Poverty” and “Capital” were originally released on a disco single, and their rock-steady funk adds a note
of humor and breathless urgency to the lyrics. The humor of the second song comes out in the singer’s hysterical
shrieking of “The moment I was born I opened my eyes/reached out for my credit card/Oh no! I left it
in my other suit!” The parallel bankruptcy of western civilization works well, with a list of luxury goods followed by
the chant “Capital, it fails us now, Comrades let us seize the time.” Less subtle is the indictment in “History’s
Bunk!” which attacks the mindless pop fare and darkly declares “History’s bunk, I’ve got no past/In the future, we'll invent
more junk.”

The live side kicks off with “Cheeseburger,” a frantic portrayal of daily desperation in the working classes. Finally, “What We
All Want” hypnotically deals with modern indecisiveness, with such lines as “You can’t help being hard up/Can’t trust the gods
we trusted/Don't think that’s any insurance,” and a chorus of “Could I be happy with something else/I need something to
fill my time.”

As is readily apparent, the satire in these songs is not your standard angst of doom and gloom bands such
as Killing Joke. It is leavened by a subtle (and indeed at times a thickly veiled) sense of humor. Gang
of Four has a gift of being able to criticize our society and government without making us defensive. The band
is not merely a forum for disaffected politicians—the music itself is very accomplished. The guitarist alternately screams and spits out
clusters of notes, while being underpinned by one of the tightest bass and drum combinations around.

This EP is worth the low price. For the best head and feet music since MC5, check out Gang of
Four.

---

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: Davidsonian, Box
210, Davidson, NC 28036. Subscription rates are $10 per year. Advertising rates are available on request.

Editor: Stewart Cauley
Executive Editor: Brian Butler
News Editors: Jeffrey Mann, Elizabeth Smiley
Sports Editor: Steve Soud
International Editors: James Gelley, Dan Turk
Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams
Calendar Editor: Susan Graves
Photo Editor: Elizabeth Elkin
Layout: James Moore, Jeff Herrin, Liga Boardman, James Rozzelle
Photographers: Anderson Scott, Randy Stroud, Neil Cooksey, Eric Long, Kelly Sandberg
Staff: Mark Sheffield, John Hartman, Lucy Everett, Jeff Holland, John Verdi, Anne Goodwin, John Krotchko, John Lusk, Lisa Buckley, Ivy
Goodman
Graphics: Susan Myers
Advertising Manager: Karis Hernstein
Old Hand: Killer
