Volume LXXIII, Number 16

Student Aid Cut

_The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Around the Country

The cuts in federal college programs made last year really won’t hit home until next fall. But already, they’ve changed
campus life in scores of overt and subtle ways: a student migration from private to public colleges has begun; out-of-state
students are going back home to school; administrators are toying with exotic new tuition charges; minority students are dropping out
in record numbers; there are fewer student services available on campus; campus health officials are even worried that student stress
levels are dangerously high.

Now President Reagan is proposing even deeper cuts for 1983, a prospect that college officials around the country find absolutely
terrifying.

In what has been called a “historic” gathering, representatives of the largest and most important college groups in the land
met last month to preview with alarm — and to politically surprise — President Ronald Reagan and the 1983 education
budget he wants Congress to pass.

Representatives of state schools, private universities, community and junior colleges, students, and faculty members bitterly predicted that as many as
two million college students will be hurt by the cuts. Thousands of them may be driven from campus altogether.

“Deep cuts have already been made in appropriations for student financial aid,” summarized Ed Hanley, lobbyist for the U.S. Student
Association (USSA). “Further cuts are going to keep thousands of students from returning to college this fall, and others will
never get to attend college at all.”

The spokespeople, solemnly facing an audience of reporters and association staffers in a House committee hearing room, said the Reagan
education budget would affect all federal student aid programs:

PELL GRANTS

According to numbers given to the press, the administration wants Congress to cut funding for Pell Grants by 40 percent.
Only students from families earning less than $14,000 a year could get the grants, compared to a limit of $27,000
this year. The maximum grant, moreover, would be $1400, down from $1670 this year.

SUPPLEMENTAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY GRANTS

SEOGs, which currently serve some 615,000 college students, would be eliminated.

NATIONAL DIRECT STUDENT LOANS

Under the NDSL program, created during the Eisenhower administration, 250,000 students now get low-cost loans to pay for school. The
administration will ask Congress to end all funding for NDSLs.

COLLEGE WORK-STUDY PROGRAM

The Reagan budget calls for a 27 percent funding cut for this program, under which the federal government helps colleges
pay students working their way through school. Observers estimate some 250,000 students will lose their jobs as a result of
the cut.

STATE STUDENT INCENTIVE GRANTS

The SSIG fund matches grants made to students by the states. The administration wants to end the program entirely, which
this year serves 300,000 students.

GUARANTEED STUDENT LOANS

About 3.5 million students took out GSLs this year, but the administration wants to cut drastically the number of students
eligible for them in the future. Reagan proposes to eliminate all graduate and professional school students from the program, double
the loan origination fee to 10 percent of the loan amount, and impose a cap on the interest rate.

Continued on page 19

Friday, 19 March 1982

Back row: Alessandro Vitelli, Adam Duncan, David Osborne. Front row: L to R, Alexandra Ehrmann, Emma Howard, Hester Abrams, Tracy
Corrigan.

See Story page 6

Alter Davidson Life

President Reagan’s proposal to eliminate 2.2 billion dollars in Federal Student aid would force Davidson Financial Aid Office to find
additional resources for over 500 students currently receiving monetary assistance.

“Historically, Davidson College has been committed to meeting one-hundred percent of demonstrated financial need,” said Associate Director of Financial Aid
Kathleen Stevenson. “If proposed federal budget cuts become a reality, additional institutional dollars will be required to continue to meet
one-hundred percent of demonstrated need.”

If Congress approves the Fiscal 1982-83 cuts, Davidson will lose almost 50% of its federal student aid allocations. The College
will need an extra $240,000 in institutional funds in FY 1982-83 and $600,000 in FY 1983-84 if the budget cuts
go through, according to Stevenson.

Under the proposed financial aid cuts, Davidson College will lose $160,000 in funding from the Pell Grants (formerly Basic Education
Opportunity Grants), $30,000 from the work-study program, and $50,000 from Supplemental Educational Opportunity grants. The Reagan administration also intends to
terminate new federal outlays for National Direct Student Loans and to require students to demonstrate need in order to qualify
for the Guaranteed Student Loan program.

164 students receive money from the Pell Grants, 144 from the work-study program, and ninety-seven from the SEOG. Eighty-two students
rely on the NDSL and almost 350 students benefit from the GSL program.

Other colleges, such as Wesleyan and Cornell, will compensate for the reduced funding by stopping “financial blind” admissions policies. But
Davidson does not intend to resort to such regressive practices.

“The College is committed to making admissions decisions based on academic and personal qualifications,” said Associate Director of Admissions Gardner
Roller. “It is our fervent hope that we will be able to continue this policy.”

Continued on page 19
