B-ball Season Summary From the Locker Room

My story ends on an early March afternoon in Team Room C of the Charleston Civic Center. The University of
Tennessee at Chattanooga had just climbed the next rung on its postseason ladder by stepping on and over Davidson. The
season was quite suddenly and abruptly terminated, and for some, perhaps whole careers had ended with the blare of a
buzzer and the blink of a 60-watt red light.

Coach Hussey walked in and out, and someone handed him an ordinary ditto with a jumble of names and numbers.
To his trained eyes, the numbers told the story of a struggle. As he walked by, he mumbled something about
not breaking the press well. His was complete dedication to a team and a season. The next press he’d see
was not tomorrow but next year. But all that’s indicative of an attitude that turned around a Titanic-style basketball program.

I had to chuckle because he really didn’t know completely what he was up against at Davidson. (I guess that
just goes to show Davidson’s intellectual snobbery—we tend to forget not everyone taps into the inside gossip line at Davidson.)
But my chuckle didn’t last long for two reasons. One was the sign on his wall—“Attitude determines altitude.” The other
came when I realized his tremendous positive attitude was going to determine a startlingly high altitude for Davidson basketball.

Well, sooner or later Bobby Hussey learned all about Davidson. And sooner than later he took his team not to
the peaks of Mt. Everest but to the nearby Appalachians, which was a few imagined at the start. Consider the
ingredients with which Bobby Hussey began. His apparent ace was a guy who, when I met Bobby Hussey a year
ago, had a reputation as an unmined vein of talent. He, Jamie Hall, had been the fourth leading scorer (10.2
ppg) the previous year and yet was the top-scoring returnee. Sure, Jamie was good, but few outside Jamie, Coach Hussey,
and the rest of the team thought the senior could carry the team on his shoulders.

Elsewhere on the inside, Hussey had the “major league shooter” who didn’t, the one who knew no limits of being
intimidated inside. Kenny Wilson had talent, but he was untested. And the top three returning guards averaged a total of
about three points per game last season. The rest of the squad looked like the remnants of Valley Forge.

So, these things considered, the Southern Conference coaches got together and figured on Davidson finishing seventh. On paper, that made
a whole lot of sense. But there isn’t an NCAA stat sheet in the country that says a word about
coaching, team unity, the determination to achieve a common goal, and attitude.

The season started off as most people expected. Twenty-nine turnovers to lose to the Australian National Team. A twenty-one point
loss to N.C. State. And worse was quickly coming to worst when tiny Erskine just plain outplayed the rather timid
Wildcats. At that point in the season, who would have imagined Davidson would make the SC tourney finals, let alone
beat VMI? Well, lo and behold, all the pieces started falling into place. Two consecutive wins over conference foes Appalachian
State and The Citadel got the team rolling despite...a 78-71 setback against UNCC. Things soured a little as the Citadel
eked out a two-point win in Charleston, but the Cats got it together a hundred miles further than most. Though
they lost their first round win, they managed to take the shine as William & Mary won big time to
sink Duke at the buzzer, 75-46. At that point, the Cats were 2-2 in games decided by three points or
less. After that, games just went topsy-turvy. One day the Cats were playing outstanding defense and blowing Furman off the
court, the next day they were missing a last-second blockout to give Marshall a garbage bucket at the buzzer. After
the Marshall game, the team skidded into a four-game losing streak as Coach Hussey desperately experimented with new lineups, always
looking for the on-the-court chemistry that clicked.

Again, lo and behold, he found it. And the team stepped up a level. And five consecutive wins stumbled forth,
four of which were on the road, and four of which were decided by three points or less. What had
been a 3-3 record (add WCU 54-51 win and Marshall 52-54 loss to the previous 2-2 tally) in close games
suddenly jumped to 7-3. The Cats had found themselves and vaulted into third place. Of course, there were a couple
of setbacks down the stretch—blowout losses at Western Carolina and Furman and the double overtime throw won by the refs
for UNCC. But the Cats came into the tournament ready to play and walloped an excellent Paladin team and snuck
past the never-say-die Citadel before falling to UTC.

I'm not a numbers man at all, but the stats sheets don’t include leadership, either. And Jamie filled a gaping
hole there. But between loss number 1 and loss number 15, a lot changed. Jamie wasn’t Junior Cliff Tribus. Jamie
came on strong in the tournament, where every game could have been his last, to make the All-Tournament team. Bobby
Hussey called Tribus the most improved October to March player he’d ever seen. Cliff was All-Conference. Kenny Wilson put paper
into action and played very well. Well enough to earn All-Conference Honorable Mention, in fact. Brian Rowan, while most people
were trying to figure out who he was, pulled another Jekyll & Hyde transformation. By the end of the season,
he was a commanding inside player. Each and every player improved.

Ask Coach Hussey how he did it, and he’ll readily reply something like, “I think that usually a coach gets
too much credit for what his team does, whether good or bad.” Well, Coach, with all due respect, that modesty’s
great. But you took a team of rag-tag no-can-dos and turned them into—or allowed them to turn into—a rag-tag team
of dids. In March, Coach Hussey walked into Team Room C and it was pretty well over. I walked up
to him and uttered a feeble consolation. “You know, Coach, you were never supposed to be here.” “That’s one way
of looking at it,” he said. “But the other way is once you get here, you’ve got to do what
it takes.” Whatever it takes, well, Davidson quite did it all this year. But more than likely, the Wildcats will
be back next year. No, the need never really ends.

Steve Soud
DAVIDSONIAN
