else fey ee ah it is the case all the same. Having had only one experience in a foreign country
since the advent of what little sentience ee choosing a topic read to peas was easy... water, Victoria is easily
accessible to American tourists. American dollars. Both are welcomed with open arms. We had a good round of “Do You
Know,” which she won handily.

Upon landing in Victoria, several interesting phenomena strike the observer. The Victoria Tourist Coercion Authority (V.T.C.A.) seems to have an
unlimited supply of long-legged, high-breasted, bright-eyed women, with which to line the path both to and from customs. These are
especially bred for an ability to extol the otherwise elusive virtues of the many available bus tours to various points
of alleged interest. My companion and I, being of the exact age and inclination to be interested in that kind
of advertising, were pretty easy prey. After promising that we would not infect, extort from, or otherwise damage the material
or repute of the fair province of British Columbia (this took a while, because the one-year-old in front of us
had thoughtlessly left his I.D. at home), we found ourselves speeding about the city in a double-decker bus with the
Greater Oshkosh Geriatric’s Club and Ezra and Unis Overcash from Eugene who were on their second honeymoon.

Now there’s not a whole lot to say about what one sees on bus tours that is very interesting. By
only a narrow strip of rocky coast, you get to Victoria, you eat and drink, and your mood improves substantially.
Generally, we perused the town in pretty standard tourist fashion. But it was toward evening that the adventure began to
show its true colors. Having brought along no luggage—I can’t really remember why—and little money, there was no good solution
as to how or where to spend the night. So we decided, in that fine old tradition of the same
name, to let the future take care of itself.

Well, the future has a way of becoming the present, and a perfunctory check of local accommodations affirmed the legend
that tourism is indeed Victoria’s number one sport, and prices for rooms are commensurate. Since we hadn’t brought sleeping bags
or blankets (they were back in Washington with Francis and Merrill), the idea of sleeping in the damp Canadian night
was a bleak one. So we started looking for a bar that looked derelict enough to stay open most of
the night. David and I figured that if nothing else, we would stay there until closing and either get tired
enough to fall asleep under some tree or get drunk enough that it wouldn’t matter. Such a place was found
to exist about two blocks from the harbor. With a name like the Intemperance Union, it had to be good.
Its marquee advertised a new-wave band calledBing Jennings. Going into a bar that pretends to be anything but, those nonfunctional
shoes with straps and pointy heels, that Farrah Fawcett hair is not yet passé; and that men still wear macho
gold chains inside shirts that hang unbuttoned to the fourth rib. As these products of Jovan, Jordache, and Calvin Klein
streamed past our stage-side table, I think that the value of a liberal arts education was reaffirmed in both our
minds. The connection is yours to make.

Later, when Bing Jennings showed up, I was optimistic. Anybody that wears light-up neckties and plays a metallic blue, 1952
Fender Telecaster is bound to be good. The rest of the band was rather singular in appearance and demeanor as
well, ranging from a scantily clad singer, to a second guitarist who looked like Arnold Horshak, to a cretinous, hulking
drummer with a falsetto voice.

Later, as I shook, rattled, and rolled around the dance floor with a girl from Oregon, we got to talking
about our respective travels. It turned out that she too, until that very day, had had no place to stay
but was fortunate enough to make an acquaintance with a guy who had a trailer and was lending it to
her, as he was gone for the weekend. She and I had a good laugh about how cold I would
be sleeping in the park, and perhaps even in danger—but I think she missed the point of the jest. It
just goes to show that there’s a time in every man’s life when he regrets never having learned to shag
or speak Italian or something.

Finally, the little hand moved around to the three and it was time to face the stark reality that lay
before us. The early a.m. moon has no doubt seen some strange sights (to paraphrase R.W. Service) on Victoria’s waterfront,
but I doubt anything has ever approached the two gaunt figures that scurried among the trash cans that night. After
gathering all the newspapers we could carry, we dropped by Pop’s all-night eatery for some greasy eggs. This was a
story in itself, but for another time. After pretty much wearing out our welcome with Pop, we headed for Sunnyside
Park for a few hours of stoic sleep beneath the Victoria Tribune.

I hope that international week is all that anyone hopes for it to be. The usual watering hole is always
an edifying experience for me. Such a bastion of middle-class haute culture was the International Temperance Union. It is in
places like these that one discovers that, in the world at large, women still wear those nonfunctional shoes with straps
and pointy heels, that Farrah Fawcett hair is not yet passé; and that men still wear macho gold chains inside
shirts that hang unbuttoned to the fourth rib.

John Hartman ’82

SMITH’S ARMY ROTC

ARMY ROTC FLOWERS

LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD

302 Smith Circle, Cornelius, ph. 892-8856

For more information contact:

Friday, 15 January 1982
