Richard Dyer-Bennet's Odyssey

- Richard Dyer-Bennet is a musician, folk singer, and balladeer, and he has found the possibility for a culmination of
his talents and artistic aspirations—the recitation of excerpts of Homer's Odyssey, accompanied by himself on the harp. In the elemental
sense, Mr. Dyer-Bennet says the Odyssey "was meant for the ear, not for the eyes," but in the formal sense
he speaks in loftier terms, suggesting that Homer's work presents a framework on which a performer can create a memorable
ambience of the performer, the material, and the audience.

Dyer-Bennet began playing guitar at the age of 15 when his family was in Germany, and he continued playing through
his college years at the University of California. He was familiar with European and American folk music, but he says
he had no scholarly or career ambitions in music until he was approached by G.W. Beckman, who heard him playing
at a party. Beckman made Dyer-Bennet aware of the possibility of a musical career and encouraged him to visit Sven
Scholander, an aging Swedish man who had been a legendary self-accompanied singer.

The advice was taken and Richard Dyer-Bennet traveled from San Francisco to Stockholm in 1935 to visit and learn from
Scholander, but the two men had only a few meetings before the 75-year-old Swede was bedridden with an illness from
which he never recovered. Nonetheless, the young musician saw Scholander perform, and that experience gave Dyer-Bennet the inspiration and direction
that years of technical instruction and individual searching for a musical goal may not have given. By his example, Scholander
showed the young man what was possible—he exercised the intangible gift that surpasses technically superior performance and which creates an
environment that involves—not simply performs to—the audience. Dyer-Bennet said that Scholander would speak to you—there would be motivation for his
words and music. Such gifts are not taught, and Dyer-Bennet returned to the States having seen the challenge and with
the advice only to perform.

After some further work with Beckman, Dyer-Bennet hit the road, paying dues at places like the Village Vanguard in Manhattan
when that club was at the cutting edge of the folk revival of the early '40s. This was followed by
a stint as a musical war propagandist, and then more years of concert touring until he became associate professor in
the Department of Theatre Arts at the State University of New York/Stony Brook in 1970.

In 1973 he read Robert Fitzgerald's translation of Homer's Odyssey, and he was first struck by the imagery and poetic
content of the translation and the story. It was not until 1977 that he seriously prepared a performance of the
Odyssey, and he became so enchanted with its potential that he applied for and received a grant from the National
Endowment for the Humanities so that he could devote all of his time to the project. For his performance on
January 12, he did excerpts from four books of the Odyssey and accompanied himself on a harp. The performance was
not well attended, partly due to snow, but I also heard many people say that a man reciting Homer seemed
a bit too esoteric and of narrow interest. Admittedly, that form of performing is uncommon these days and seems to
be a "scholarly aesthetic" pursuit, but it is of ancient and actually common origin.

The program was divided into three parts, and for an encore, Dyer-Bennet did the "Song of the Sirens." Some familiarity
with the Odyssey was necessary to follow the story because the three parts were not contiguous, although these selections probably
do a better job of giving a story line than any other combination. This problem is unavoidable—time is limited and
Mr. Dyer-Bennet doesn't have it all memorized—and it was a drawback of the performance. A person could not come to
"hear the Odyssey"; a listener needed to appreciate the manner and the form of the presentation. The poetry of some
parts of the Odyssey is strong enough to stand alone, but Mr. Dyer-Bennet is not simply a reader of poetry—he
is attempting to do Homer as Homer might have done it, and Homer's poetry was part of an epic.

Richard Dyer-Bennet feels that Homer must have had a gift like that of Sven Scholander for bringing the spirit of
the listener into the performance. I think he gained a feel for part of that gift despite the problems—the one
I mentioned previously, and the size of Love Auditorium, which does not lend itself to intimate performances. Those problems made
the audience role more difficult. A self-accompanied recitation of Homer is a low-key affair to begin with, and to truly
involve the performer, material, and audience it takes the effort, or quality, of all three. I agree with Mr. Dyer-Bennet
that the Artists Series performance was not superlative, but for those who could feel like they were part of the
environment, it was possible to catch a glimpse of a form and work that was exalted long ago, but which
has partly died in more recent times.

Tom Pafford

SMITH'S FLOWERS

302 Smith Circle
Cornelius, ph. 892-8856

THE PERFECT VACATION
Spot FOR SPRING BREAK.
MAKE PLANS NOW. STAY
