From the Locker Room...

Last year my column had the rather inauspicious beginning of chastising fans for not showing enough support (i.e., screaming their heads off) for the team. This year, so that I don’t waste good ink repeating myself, I present to you The Wildcat Guide to How to Act at a Basketball Game.

Rule 1. Get there at least 20 minutes before tipoff time. The earlier you get into Johnston Gym, the better seat you’ll get. This, of course, doesn’t apply for the Coliseum games, but in either case it will give you a chance to familiarize yourself with both our team and their cutthroats and muggers. Know our team by their first names so that you can applaud them whenever possible. Know their ex-cons’ names so that you can abuse them whenever possible. Davidson soccer fans do this well.

Rule 2. Make lots of noise when the Wildcat swings in from the rafters. This is an ideal time to start getting really fired up for the game. Right before your very eyes the fool in the Wildcat costume is going to attempt what may be the first mass-witnessed suicide ever.

Rule 3. Stand up! Don’t worry about the person or persons behind you—they should be standing up themselves. It really fires the team up to have the whole student section on its feet, and I highly recommend you spend at least 30 minutes of the game on your feet. Sit down for early timeouts and halftime only!

Rule 5. Abuse the referees and visiting thieves liberally and whenever possible. There is absolutely no reason for Davidson to win the D. S. McAlister Sportsmanship Award ever again. It’s reserved for losers. If a visiting murderer fouls a member of our team, or even if he only commits a violation, shout “You! You! You!” and point your finger at him. If a referee blows a call (which is quite often), let him know in no uncertain terms that he made a dire mistake. If you’re playing VMI or The Citadel, inquire about their barber. Last year against South Carolina, Kevin Attar, with a Boston accent that carries clear across the Coliseum, abused Jimmy Foster so much that the big center scored only six points. I strongly discourage, however, the use of any racial slurs whatsoever.

Rule 6. There are certain things to do or say at certain points in the ball game. Bobby Hussey prides his team’s defense. Whenever they’re making a big stand, building a lead, protecting a lead, or coming from behind, be sure to chant “De-fense.” When Cliff Tribus (or anyone for that matter) puts up a long jumper, yell, “WHUUMMP” as it goes through the hoop. When KW or anyone else streaks down the court on a breakaway, build to a fever pitch until the dunk, then go absolutely and unequivocally bonkers! After the famous Pep Band drumroll, be sure to scream “Go Wildcats!”

Rule 7. Above all, make all the noise you possibly can as much as you possibly can. Primal Scream Therapy is making millions in California, and you can get the same benefits by screaming your head off at a Davidson game without paying a penny for the cure. If you’re too tense from all that studying, come get rid of your tensions at a basketball game and have fun at the same time. Face it, basketball is in, studying on game nights is out.

Note—the opinion expressed above is the personal opinion of Mr. Soud. In the spirit of the Southern Conference Code of Sportsmanlike Conduct (which Davidson won hands down two years ago) The Editors personally encourage spectators to sit attentively in their coats and ties and clap loudly at appropriate moments, using only cheers approved by the Court of Control. Bringing blood-red and deep black pom-pons is also cool. Eds.

Outward Bound is more than a trip of high adventure. It's discovering yourself. Learning that you're better than you think you are. And finding out how to work with others. Come join us on a 3-week trip of excitement and self-challenge.

Hang in there!

Send for more information:

Name
Street
City State Zip
School

Check the courses that interest you:

Canoeing __ Desert __
White Water Expeditions __ Rafting __ Wilderness __
Sailing __ Backpacking __
Cycling __ Mountaineering __

Outward Bound, Dept CH.
384 Field Point Rd.
Greenwich, CT 06830
Phone toll free (800) 243-8520

No experience necessary.

Outward Bound admits students of any sex, race, color and national or ethnic origin. We are a nonprofit organization. Scholarships available.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 10 December 1982