El Salvador - Deja Vu

“March on Washington!” the signs said. “Protest American Foreign Intervention!” Deja vu. Today minus fifteen years, but with a difference.
This time the signs say, “U.S. out of El Salvador.”

At last, a chance to feel some of the romanticism of the sixties: The images of the idealistic activism of
the sixties always held a romantic fascination for me. Though repulsed by the extremist violence, I’ve long admired those people
who were genuinely committed to their cause, the anti-war movement. I used to listen reverently as high school teachers or
other impossible old people talked about how they protested the war. I thought it must be terribly exciting to have
such purpose.

But I am of the generation after, the last whimpers of the baby boom. All I know about the anti-war
movement is what I read, liberally peppered with ten years of hindsight. I lived in the Washington suburbs during the
height of the protests, but have only vague memories of them, filtered through my elementary school viewpoint. But I have
images of the peace movement. My mind’s eye clearly remembers pictures of a hippie putting a daisy in a stern
soldier's gun barrel, a chaotic crush of protesters ringed by orderly blue helmets, and impassioned speeches ringing out over attentive
crowds. The increasing consensus that the protesters were right only increases my fascination.

Since entering college, I’ve felt somewhat guilty for not showing that kind, or really any kind of commitment to this
type of ideal. It’s not easy to be a lone activist. John Lennon didn’t mean for “Give Peace a Chance”
to be a solo. I’ve felt especially cut off recently, since it’s becoming almost fashionable to be selfish.

In a time of twenties’ boosterism, I’ve been yearning for sixties activism.

I read the posters and went to Washington to try and feel the sense of urgency I identify with those
times.

Unfortunately, the show I saw didn’t satisfy my idealistic yearnings. The whole affair was tinged with the same sense of
cynicism I had hoped to flee. I didn’t find that overriding sense that what we were doing mattered—that we really
could make a difference. The whole tone of the event was more like that of a hopelessly lopsided football game,
or a country fair than an impassioned protest. Insistent representatives of every type of bizarre splinter group shoved their literature
at passersby. I ended up with a pocketful of pamphlets from the Haitian Refugee Project, the Marxist-Leninist Party, the Union
of Anti-Imperialist Students, and an anti-Khomeini group of Iranians in exile. It became hard to remember just what this rally
was about. Button and t-shirt sellers worked the crowd extensively. The irony of an aging hippie selling “Smash Capitalism” buttons
at a healthy markup was not lost on the crowd.

The sense of unanimity I hoped to find was also missing. The group that organized the rally was a coalition
of 16 disparate groups which each had to have their turn at the mike. The American Indian Movement, the Mobilization
for Survival, the National Committee against Registration and the Draft, Women’s Pentagon Action and several others all had a hand
in it and had their say. While I may think that Native Americans are abused, that was not what I
had come for.

I also just plain disagreed with many of the speakers and groups there. Though not lacking for extremists and kooks,
the crowd was generally a good bit more moderate than most of the speakers. While they supported the leftist revolutionaries,
I wanted peace. Duma Ndlovu, a South African student, tried to get the crowd chanting “Revolution,” but quite a few
of us responded “Peace!” He was not amused.

I almost wistfully hoped for a clash with the police to make my experience as a weekend radical complete. But
this too was also missing. Tear gas and truncheons are part of my legacy of leftover images from the early
seventies. But the only violence that day came from the radical pro-Soviet Spartacist League. They were excluded from the May
27 Coalition that organized the event but came anyway. After a small fracas between some of their members and other
protesters, the league was cordoned off by D.C. police. The police were quite restrained, and acted admirably. No indignant cries
of “pig” here. Most protesters seemed appreciative that they were there to control the violent Spartacists. Apparently, the police have
learned how to handle protesters with practice.

I’m still glad I went. The 23,000 other people and I may not have accomplished much as far as ending
U.S. military incursions in Central America, but now I can feel as if I’ve done something. Much of the extreme
rhetoric didn’t appeal to me, but I didn’t change my mind as a result of the protest. The problem is,
I doubt anybody else did either.

Jeff Mann ‘84

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982

Continued from page 23

“country-right-or-wrong” attitude. Besides, who can fault the leftists for being anti-American when we are arming their enemy or when faced
with our duplicity in foreign policy in the Middle East. The use of our relationship with Israel as a precedent
on which to base foreign policy in Latin America is far from convincing. El Salvador is indeed an international tragedy.
However, any American involvement in El Salvador will be anything but a stabilizing influence. In the movie to which we
referred earlier, one of the scenes showed a man using the blood of a fallen comrade to write “Revolución o
muerte” (Revolution or death) on a wall. As long as we continue to support the Duarte regime with shipments of
arms, the status quo will be continued, with nothing gained and nothing lost—except lives.

Bob Finch ’84 and Joe Jaworski ’84
