Opinions: El Salvador Elections

Were I not frustrated weekly in my desire to read a balanced campus newspaper, I could easily retire my admittedly caustic, ideological pen. Frustration, however, dominates Friday afternoons for me when the Davidsonian makes it to the press. The paper’s topic of concern this past week regarded El Salvador, and once again liberal readers were spoon-fed. No less than four articles protested U.S. policy in El Salvador. Catch words included the “repressive Duarte Regime” a la “Revolution or Death,” and “déjà vu.” A page of photographs publicizing the Davidson Coalition on El Salvador and the laughable Washington protest, and a couple of poster-like statements also appeared in the copy.

Interestingly enough, no mention was made of the actual situation in El Salvador this past week, namely the elections of March 28. Such an omission can no doubt be linked to the projected outcome of the elections. That is to say, those to the left of moderate in the U.S., by not supporting the moderate solution that José Napolean Duarte represented, now must consider the possibility of an extreme right coalition. Had Duarte, the Christian Democrat candidate, received a majority, further land reform and egalitarianism could have been instituted in El Salvador. The same obviously cannot be said of any coalition headed by ex-Maj. Roberto d’Aubuisson.

Prior to the elections, the Duarte regime was shackled with illegitimacy. Duarte was made president in 1979 after the universally recognized incompetent Carlos Humberto Romero was overthrown by a group of young army officers. (Incidentally, Duarte was forced to flee the country in 1972 after winning the presidential elections of that year.) A number of regroupings preceded Duarte’s appointment, but his Christian Democrat Party came to lead a governmental coalition. Duarte pressed for elections and a mixed bag of economic reforms. It is true that since then he has been a figurehead without real governing power, but an electoral majority would have provided the legitimacy Duarte so desperately needed. He could possibly have broken from the control of El Salvadoran military generals had he gained the outright support of the populace.

Now, despite the fact that Duarte received 41 percent of the vote, he may well be forced out of the government by a coalition of five right-wing parties. The U.S. left should have backed Duarte as a realistic, moderate solution to the El Salvadoran problem in the hope that he could have received majority support. The fact that Duarte may be ousted from the Assembly could force withdrawal of U.S. support if and when a rightist coalition is formed. What stands to happen to land reform and human rights then?

Beyond the overt repression that surely would accompany an extreme right coalition, the nation itself would become further divided. Julio Rey Prendes, principal leader of the Christian Democrats, said, “If we are not in power, if we are not a very important part of the government of this country and if these people go away to find another solution, then the violence will be incremented in this country. While many people will join the left, some might join the extreme right making a tremendous polarization. That means civil war and that means a very dangerous moment. God save this country.” Little canbe done about the election results now, save pressure from the U.S. on the El Salvadoran right to include Duarte and the Christian Democrats in the Assembly coalition. The question here is, why did not the Christian Democrats, as a realistic, moderate step toward a solution to division in El Salvador, receive stronger support in the U.S.? Many pressure groups in the U.S. instead focused their attention on the Reagan Administration. For example, consider the Davidson Coalition on El Salvador. The Coalition stands opposed to any further intervention in El Salvador and advocates an absolute slashing of military aid. Claiming neither to favor a Marxist-Leninist solution nor an alternative to the right, the groups nevertheless did not support Duarte and the Christian Democrats. Its attention was vented solely toward Washington. The Administration’s policy, if indeed a coherent policy can be identified, was repeatedly condemned as another Vietnam. The Coalition seemed hardly concerned with the elections of March 28. The elections were written off as meaningless because no viable rebel candidate was included, which meant that no sweeping socio-economic change could occur. The Coalition therefore chose not to support a party or candidate, essentially ignoring the elections. Should not the Coalition have considered what might happen if Duarte, the moderate candidate, did not receive a majority? Moderate egalitarian reform under Duarte with the hope of future egalitarian measures certainly beats further retrenchment and repression under a coalition headed by d’Aubuisson’s Nationalist Republican Alliance. On one occasion, the principal organizers of the Coalition commented that they would support a candidate left of center, not tainted by a Marxist label. “OF COURSE, THE MARXISTS HAVE A SOLUTION TO ALL THIS ELECTION FRAUD AND INTIMIDATION: NO MORE ELECTIONS!” No such candidate was on the March 28 ballot and straw, ideal candidates rarely win elections. Dates on the calendar simply do not disappear; the elections were set to take place, and the Coalition would have backed the most desirable party/candidate. What if the Reagan administration had abstained or cut off U.S. support for Duarte? The extreme right would undoubtedly be in an even stronger position. Abstention by the Coalition, as well as other anti-Administration groups, hardly aided the cause of the El Salvadoran people. Had Duarte gained majority control, such groups could have pressured the Administration to monitor El Salvador. On the other hand, the U.S. might well withdraw completely from the country if a rightist coalition comes to the fore. What then will happen to the peasantry of El Salvador? Evidently, anti-Administration organizations did not consider the consequences of a Christian Democrat ouster in choosing to ignore the elections.

Political idealism and opposition to U.S. intervention into the domestic affairs of nations are indeed noble stances. But, idealism and calls for self-determination without realistic political solutions do not effect positive results. It seems irresponsible for pressure groups similar to the Coalition to idealistically oppose the U.S. Administration without truly considering the future plight of the El Salvadoran people. The peasantry of El Salvador does not deserve Roberto d’Aubuisson. Because irresponsible pressure groups in the U.S. offered no realistic political solution, perhaps they deserve a taste of the ex-Major.

Van Beck ’82

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9 April 1982