Saturday, February 6 was party time at the Headmaster’s Villa, Shitoli. Chris Moore, Atsiaya Opanyi, Omwalo Halwenge, and A. T.
Miller hosted 25 friends at their swinging (no, not from vines) bachelors’ pad for an all-night bash. Actually, because of
problems of transport and security (animals & human), nearly all Kenyan parties must last all night.

Invitations were sent out two weeks prior to allow for mail service and the African custom of only accepting written
invitations. If you just verbally tell an African about a party, he is insulted and will not come. Emily Post
would be proud! Also, most people will respond with their regrets or acceptances, which is nice for planning.

Kenyan parties come in three colors—black, white, and the much rarer mixed. Although there is very little racial prejudice in
the country (tribal differentiations are stronger than racial), blacks and whites are still often not completely comfortable socially. Part of
the problem is that nearly all whites are also foreigners, and another part is colonial hangover. One surprising thing is
that Nairobi and many large cities show much less mixing than other areas. Perhaps this is because minorities in such
areas have enough members to form their own groups.

Mazungu (white—including Vince who calls himself the Black Mazungu) parties are predominantly volunteers, who are predominantly teachers and are usually
informal. People bring their own food, drinks, sleeping bags, etc., and share the work. The time is spent talking about
school, home, Reagan, travel, and can-you-top-this stories of African adventures and encounters. Three sub-classes are Peace Corps parties where everyone
is rich (they make more than twice my salary) and complaining, and Davidson parties where everyone talks about mutual friends
and bores the non-Davidsonians to death. British parties are generally just like Mazungu parties with less fun, less food, and
more talk.

African parties have invitations and are nearly always formal with a Guest of Honor and a set program. Guests are
greeted and seated and served sodas, nuts, and biscuits. When all have arrived, tea and bread are served. Then follows
more sitting in seats and talking until dinner is served. After dinner comes more sodas and then the program, which
usually involves each guest, or in a large party selected guests, making a speech. The Guest of Honor is finally
saluted and then is expected to open the dancing. The music (battery-operated record players—a step up from a Close-and-Play) goes
on all night, with a few spare rooms provided for those who can’t make it.

Because the party styles and customs are so different, mixed parties are often difficult to bring off successfully, without having
one group predominate. Our party turned out to be a fairly successful blend, perhaps because the guests were evenly balanced.
As such, it was something special. I have often been somewhat uncomfortable as one of, if not the only, foreigner
at a party. It becomes so difficult to make any movement, dance, or talk to anyone without the whole room
noticing and paying attention. For Africans at Mazungu parties, there is the same discomfort of not quite fitting in. In
addition, if people are using tribal language or speaking English very fast, others are excluded.

We had invitations, but also bring-your-own. We had tea, but outside, and informal. We had a program but no guest
of honor, and each person made a speech and then also received a gag gift. In this way, everyone had
something familiar and something new. Those expatriates who had never attended an African party and those Africans who had never
been to an expatriate party each learned about what the other was like.

One of the African women said during her speech that she had never been to a party with people from
different continents and so this day in her life “was one of the wonderful ones.” We had fun showing each
other how we dance, what music we like, and relaxing.

It had always disturbed me that during my nearly two years here I’ve had two distinct sets of friends—African and
foreign—and they rarely, if ever, mixed. It is easy to make many individual friends of all kinds, but mixing all
of them socially as a group is difficult. Past attempts had only succeeded in making one or the other feel
uncomfortable. I’m glad I did not give up, however, and I think both learned a lot meeting on even footing
in a large group. Too bad the beer wasn’t cold.

by Andy Miller

DAVIDSONIAN

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Editor: Stewart Cauley
Executive Editor: Brian Butler
News Editor: John Richards
Sports Editor: Steve Soud
International Editors: James Gelly, Dan Turk
Calendar Editor: Susan Graves
Photo Editor: Elizabeth Elkin
Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams
Layout: Jeff Herrin, Lisa Boardman, James Rozzelle, Gary Sladcik
Photographers: Anderson Scott, Randy Stroud, Neill Cooksey, Eric Long, Kelly Sundberg
Editor Emeritus: Elizabeth Kiss
Staff: Mark Sheffield, John Hartman, Lucy Everett, Jeff Holland, John Verdi, John Lusk, Lisa Buckley
Graphics: Susan Meyers
Advertising Manager: Karris Hernstein
Old Hand: Thriller

The Davidsonian is published every Friday during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to:

The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Offices located on the top floor of Grey Student Union. Subscription rates
on request.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982

13
