Film Reviews with Debbie Eisenbise -

The Grapes of Wrath
Southern Comfort
Singing in the Rain

Friday’s Pop Film @ 8 and 10:30 pm, Southern Comfort has little to do with the alcoholic beverage of the same name or the niceties of Southern hospitality. In fact, the only comfort you will find is in the title. Director Walter Hill and producer David Giler have teamed up to create a chilling drama of a weekend gone awry echoing Deliverance and designed to keep one glued to the edge of his seat. The film is set in the bayou where the Louisiana National Guard has gone for a weekend of playing army. The story centers around one small band of men who get lost in the swamps and then find themselves in the midst of a real war in which they are the enemy encroaching upon Cajun turf.

Private Spencer (Keith Carradine) and Charles Hardin (Powers Boothe) create tremendous characters as the only two guards with any bit of common sense. Yet they are not portrayed as total stoics in a world gone mad. They have their moments of fright and panic when attacked by dogs and snipers, and when turned on by their comrades. The movie becomes a documentary of group dynamics in the face of real and unexpected danger.

As in Deliverance, one doesn’t know where the weekend ends and the atrocity begins nor when it will end. The suspense permeates every scene as the men attempt to escape the Cajuns’ traps and bullets and the ever-entangling web of the swamp.

If tension and seriousness disturb you, the answer is just around the bend with another Pop Film on Saturday the 24th, at 8 and 10:30 pm. The April showers which have brought a grimace to many a student’s face this spring are a cause for rejoicing in Gene Kelly and Stanley Donen’s Singing in the Rain. One of America’s best-loved musicals, this 1952 classic joyfully revives the song, the dance, the romance, and the fun of life.

Debbie Reynolds and Gene Kelly (who sang, danced, acted, choreographed, and directed this work) hold the key to revitalizing romance as they sing their memorable duet “You Were Meant for Me.” With the help of Donald O’Connor, the movie emits a happy-go-lucky exuberance that is nothing short of being contagious.

Another classic comes to the screen on Wednesday the 28th with John Ford’s 1941 version of The Grapes of Wrath. Nunnally Johnson’s adaptation of Steinbeck’s novel works the story of the Okies who forsook their dust bowl home into a cohesive study of one family’s strength. The last part of the novel is dropped and only pieces of the total dialogue are left in, but the film’s strength and the story’s poignant message are still gripping. The shots of the desolate scenery and the quiet empty faces of those who must face an uncertain future with courage and dignity capture the spirit of Steinbeck’s original work.

The story revolves around the westward movement of Ma and Pa Joad and their son Tom. It is the tale of a family that endures. As Ma Joad says, “We’re the people that live. Can’t nobody wipe us out.” Ma Joad and Tom particularly stand out as strong individuals, but the rest of the cast is of high caliber and act with remarkable realism and honesty.

It is a film that will cause you to feel the pain of these proud people, and cause you to want to join with them in their journey and their struggle.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 April 1982