Unification of all races within South Africa. Some of its members, like the six who are coming to Davidson, felt
that they could accomplish more by leaving the country.

The six A.N.C. members are touring the Southeast in order to raise funds for a proposed school. It is necessary
for them to search outside of South Africa for funding because the government of that country will not allocate money
to build schools in the wasteland areas where many of the blacks are sent. They will instead build the school
in neighboring Tanzania so as to educate deprived citizens on the other side of the border.

New Athletic Facility in Planning Stage

DUNCAN FRASER ’86

Davidson College is considering building a new 5.5 million dollar athletic complex to replace the aging Johnston Gymnasium. According to
Vice-president for Development Dr. Jack Powers, “The current gym is inadequate as it was built for a student body of
800, far below the present enrollment of 1400,” and Johnston gym was built for an all-male college and is inadequate
for today’s co-ed student body.

Powers says that the site for the new gym is at the far end of the current soccer field, allowing
a new access road and parking space for intercollegiate events. Tentative models have been built, but final blueprints for the
building and the entire project are still in the planning stage. However, the most likely design calls for a modern
architectural style consistent with Vail Commons and the E.H. Little Library.

The entrance would be through a huge, glass-walled central core with three main wing extensions. One section will contain a
pool capable of hosting intercollegiate competitions, a second will house an indoor track, tennis courts, racquetball courts, and gymnastic facilities,
while the third will be a basketball/volleyball arena with a seating capacity in the range of 3500-5000 persons. Major basketball
games will continue to be played in the Coliseum in Charlotte.

Powers said that although “the college will not consider a commitment to begin construction until one or more major donors”
contribute toward the 1982 price tag of $5.5 million, there is the possibility that the facility could be built in
sections as money is forthcoming.

The plan for the complex is a part of the 1987 plan which foresaw a need in 1987 for a
new commons and renovation of the Martin labs, both of which have been completed. Additionally, the plan calls for space
for the mathematics department, space for the visual arts, and an athletic complex. Currently, plans are being considered for renovating
Johnston Gymnasium at an estimated cost of $1 million, into a visual arts gallery on the ground floor with an
auditorium above.

DC President Participates in Advisory Panel

Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr., president of Davidson College, is one of 12 prominent educators, foundation executives, and representatives of
the private sector who have been invited to participate October 18 in the organizational meeting of an Advisory Panel on
International Educational Exchange. Invitations to memberships were extended by Charles Z. Wick, director of USIA.

Under the terms of its charter, the panel will advise Wick by studying worldwide scholarly and demographic trends, helping to
link the public and private sectors in support of educational exchanges, and identifying issues in the field of international education
exchange. Its basic purpose is to examine ways in which academic exchanges can further international understanding between the U.S. and
other nations.

Spencer, who currently serves as chairman of the Board of Foreign Scholarships, has a long-standing interest in international education. He
served as a Fulbright Lecturer at the University of Munich in 1965-66, and has twice returned to Germany as a
guest lecturer. A native of Rock Hill, S.C., Spencer attended Davidson College and earned his Ph.D. in history before returning
to Davidson as assistant to the president in 1951. He became dean of students and associate professor of history in
1954, and was named professor in 1955. In 1957 Spencer became president of Mary Baldwin College in Virginia. He assumed
the presidency at Davidson in 1968.

The panel will meet at USIA headquarters in Washington D.C. Its mandate will expire at the end of two years,
unless it is renewed by the USIA director.

SGA Senators Elected

Here are the final results of the SGA Senate elections and runoffs held October 5 and 6:

Sentelle: David Hutchinson

Knox: Atondra Williams

Irwin: Keith Revell

Upperclass Belk: Leon Mason

Freshman Belk (2): Sayres Rudy, John Ferguson

Cannon: Kathleen Huff

Watts: Bryan Sloan

Duke: Pat Woodward

Little: Pete Skillern

Richardson: Jennifer Gotto

Freshman Class (3): Alan Mast (president), Beadsie Woo, Edward Hay

Off-campus (3): Melissa McKeithen, Minor Hinson, Paul Baynard
