up in the success of the season as well as in many other ways, such as the enthusiasm, high morale,
and unity expressed both on and off the court. Kenny Wilson’s comment that “we all love each other” says more
than any set of numbers or statistics could ever reveal. On behalf of the Davidson College student body, I would
like to congratulate you on such a successful first year here at Davidson. We appreciate your concern for the players
both as athletes and students. Your cat paw system of encouraging individual success, both on the court and in the
classroom, is exemplary of this concern. In wishing you continued success, I hope you are aware of the support of
the student body, support which will continue to grow with your program. Once again, thanks and congratulations.

Sincerely yours,
Chip Legerton
President, SGA

Davidsonian welcomes letters from our readers. We try to print all letters that are of general interest, but we adhere
to these four guidelines:
1. We require that letters be in our hands by Tuesday 7 p.m. and include the author’s phone number.
2. We reserve the right not to print letters that (a) function as advertisements; (b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or
inside jokes; (c) represent a view that we print.

Farrell New Athletic Director

The College Board of Trustees appointed Head Football Coach Ed Farrell to the post of athletic director at their regular
meeting over break. The Trustees appointed Farrell on the recommendation of College President Sam Spencer. There was no search for
other candidates, aside from an abortive search last summer.

Farrell has been acting athletic director since July 2, 1981. Spencer appointed Farrell to replace Eugene Bingham, who resigned for
“health reasons.” Spencer decided not to conduct another search because he had already decided that Farrell was doing a good
job, and that he would probably get the job. “It would have been dishonest... a farce” to conduct another search,
Spencer said.

Spencer said the athletic department above all, “needs stability and good management,” and he feels that Farrell will provide it.
He said that Farrell’s months as acting athletic director served as a “test period,” and that Farrell “took hold and
ran the department well.”

Farrell will retain his coaching position in addition to serving as overall athletic director. Spencer foresees no conflicts between Farrell’s
dual positions of athletic director and football coach. “Coach Farrell clearly understands that the two jobs are separate... We had
a frank discussion and he knows that minor sports are not to be slighted.”

Farrell says that he will in no way give preference to the football program as athletic director. He said that
he must follow the policies set by the Trustees, who are committed to as wide an athletic program as possible.
He points out, however, that they are also committed to success in the football and basketball programs.

Farrell points to his experience in many sports to demonstrate his concern for “non-revenue sports,” a term he prefers to
“minor sports.” “I have a much broader background than just the football that the people at Davidson know,” he said.
He said that much of his “strongest support in getting the job came from the non-revenue sports coaches.” He has
coached baseball, track, wrestling, and swimming.as well as football. He played on varsity baseball, basketball, football, swimming, and lacrosse teams
in high school and college. Like most administrative positions, the length of Farrell’s appointment is “indefinite,” which virtually means permanent.

by Jeff Mann ‘84

We require that letters be neatly signed and include an address. If you have a compelling reason for us to
withhold your name, explain your situation to the editor. The Davidsonian does not in any way endorse the opinions expressed
in letters.

New Eating House

The new all-girls eating house, which Pres. Spencer approved on Feb. 5, has chosen the name of Warner Hall after
the most recent Director of the Trustees. Hall has served as senior minister at Covenant Presbyterian Church in Charlotte and
is very active in the College and the Presbyterian Church, according to house member Freshman Laura Taft. The girls also
elected officers for the Spring term. They are Pres., Connie Kyle; Vice President, Mary Tabb; Treas., Anne Rollins; Asst. Treas.,
Martha Nelson; Sec., Beth Mack; and co-social chairmen Susan Kann and Alva Moore.

The members of Warner Hall have been meeting every week in order to work out the details for opening the
house in the fall, said sophomore Anne Rollins. She added that every member is on at least one committee. The
house will be located in the former Bailey House between F&M and ETC. Rollins said this house has the most
equipment left over from last year. College Business Manager Bob Currie said that kitchen equipment and dining room furniture left
from ARA-Slater is already in the house, and that the college will provide the house with lounge furniture over the
summer.

The house is also planning some social functions for this spring. Although Rollins admitted that they are rather limited because
they do not have a house, they plan to have some mixers with the fraternities and any other functions they
can manage without a house.

The College requires that the new house meet certain requirements set by Dean of Students Will Terry before opening. It
must have 70 women committed to a two-year full-board contract and each of the members must pay $25 by May
1 in order to acquire working capital, according to an announcement from Dean Terry. Thus far, 52 freshmen women and
16 upperclass women have chosen to eat at Warner Hall next year. Dean Terry also requires that the house operate
in the black and its members are responsible for any deficit. It must pay at least minimum wage to its
employees and provide them with adequate benefits and compensations. The house must also agree to follow the guidelines of Patterson
Court regarding social functions, the announcement from Terry said.

Spencer has yet to make a decision concerning the other house, which the Council on Campus and Religious Life recommended
be given to the Black Student Coalition (BSC). BSC President André Kennebrew said that BSC members were a little surprised
because they really expected to get the house. He said they would like to receive Dr. Spencer’s decision as soon
as possible in order to budget and make plans. “We’re still hopeful... We feel we will still get the house.”

by Lucy Everett ‘85 and Jeff Holland ‘84

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 19 March 1982
