**Taxes, Like Death, Unavoidable**

While the fool defends all tax legislation, the wise person defends taxation in principle. We experience daily the abuses of our tax dollars—everyone has heard the stories of waste. Nonetheless, we must recognize taxation as fair.

As you see, I disagree with Diane Odom’s conclusion that taxes are unjust. She claims that each person has a fundamental right to life. And, logically following this right is the right to sustain and promote one’s life. Furthermore, “sustaining one’s life necessarily requires material goods” for no person can live without nutriment and shelter. Although these rights could be further justification, we will proceed.

Now, imagine someone living in England in the 1830s. Imagine also that that person belongs to a poor family. Upon getting married, this person finds that her husband cannot find work except occasionally in a factory. To support the family, all are required to work. However, they soon find that the children begin to die of starvation and disease against which they have no strength.

What are the rights and obligations involved in this situation? Supposedly the husband, as well as the rest of the family, have rights to life and the sustaining of that life. What can be said of an economic system that enables one person to become rich, and stay rich, while denying another even the opportunity to sustain her life?

The question becomes: what are the rights of, and the subsequent obligations to, an individual who, by the nature of the economic system in which she participates, is denied the opportunity to sustain that life to which she has a right? Clearly, someone must compensate for the flawed nature of the economic system which violates this individual’s rights.

Two sources of compensation are at hand: 1) the charitable individual and 2) those individuals who have gained from the economic system above and beyond that level necessary for sustenance of life; i.e. “property-in-excess.” In the past, the former solution has proved inadequate (much to our chagrin). Thus, we turn to the alternative: taxes.

Note that in the alternative, the rights of individuals conflict. The right of the disadvantaged individual to sustain her life versus the right of the economically advantaged individual to property-in-excess. Since the right to sustain one’s life is prior to the right to one’s property-in-excess, then one is justified in taking from the advantaged person and giving to the disadvantaged.

This conclusion follows because:

1) One must be able to sustain one’s life before one can obtain property in excess. Thus, the right to the opportunity to sustain one’s life takes precedence over the right to property-in-excess.

2) The individual with property-in-excess gained that property in an economy in which both the advantaged and disadvantaged are essential. The cheap labor due to the excess of workers allows the advantaged person a greater profit margin. Thus, what is fair but that the disadvantaged share in the wealth they help produce?

The fool might use this argument to justify all tax legislation. At most, it means to defend the fairness of taxes in general. The quantitative dimension of taxes is a much more ambiguous affair.

D. Armistead

February 11, 1982

---

Blue Bell, Inc., one of the world’s largest apparel manufacturers, has immediate openings in the Southeast and Southwest for Industrial Engineering and Manufacturing management trainees. Here’s a chance to train and advance in a growing Fortune 500 company. Our plants produce such well-known brands as Wrangler, Jantzen, Sedgefield, and Red Kap.

The ideal candidates will have an undergraduate degree and be open to relocation. Six or more hours of physics and/or chemistry are preferred, but not required.

For Interview Appointment or More Information, Please Contact Your Placement Office Today.

BLUE BELL, INC.

An Equal Opportunity Employer

---

Continued from page 20

But it turns out she’s leading a double life: At church, she is president of her youth group, elected to fifth term out of a possible four. She heads up many other church activities. If a little kid gets in trouble, her mother is likely to chastise the child, “Why can’t you be like her.”

But at home she is a heretic.

The next day, talk turned toward Apostolic views and other denominations. Catholics, it seems, worship Satan. Where did she get that idea? A comic book written by a man named John Todd.

“Does he document his proof?”

“I don’t think he ever documents his proof.”

Just like that, a whole denomination unquestionably reads a comic book for God’s sake and decides Catholics worship the devil! And no one cared to ask a single question. At least my lady friend thought of some questions, even if she didn’t dare ask.

But that was a lot of her problem. She had considered dropping out of church but was afraid of the social pressure. It’s amazing how much the societal conventions of a small group of people who met once a week can smother the personal convictions of another. She’s not allowed to be liberal.

Why do people accept such ridiculous tenets? Maybe it’s true, but somehow I doubt it. It seems to me people would rather be told what to do than to think for themselves. Don’t watch too much television, don’t go to the movies, don’t listen to the radio, and your camel will fit through the eye of the needle. It’s a whole lot easier that way.

But when someone finally does decide to think for himself, he’s terrified of excommunication. My lady friend said one of the most pity-evoking statements I’ve ever heard: “I’m liberal but I’m not allowed to be.”

You see, Apostolicism is, in effect, the Old Right. Is this what we want?

DAVIDSONIAN, Friday, January 29, 1982