Tim Ritchie (No. 82) and David Teer make their way through the treacheries of European Cross Country.

Ruggers Romp over Belmont Abbey

By MARK MORRISON ’83

The Davidson College Rugby Club improved its record to 3-1 with a 22-10 trouncing of Belmont Abbey on Saturday. It was Davidson’s best outing of the year.

Despite Belmont Abbey’s size advantage, the DCRC was able to win most of the scrums and lineouts. Once again, scrum half Jim Brueggeman opened the scoring with 6 quick points. Late in the first half, the Davidson forwards moved the ball with good team play culminating in a brilliant run and successful try (T.D.) by pack leader Theo Wright. Brueggeman added the two-point conversion to end the half with a 12-0 Davidson lead.

Davidson consistently moved the ball in the first half, getting fine runs from Wright, back Hunter Gourley, and forward Leif Johnston. Gang tackling from backs Todd Thomson, Steve Stine, and Tommy Cardwell kept Belmont Abbey off the scoreboard during the half.

The second stanza began with aggressive hitting from Davidson’s flanker Joe McMullen, and backs John Ferguson and Pat Millen. Five minutes into the second half, the Wildcat backs swarmed into Abbey’s backfield, allowing Thomson to block a Belmont kick. Thomson immediately fielded the loose ball and romped in for his second try of the season. Brueggeman extended the lead to 18-0 with the conversion.

With twenty minutes left in the match, Belmont Abbey capitalized on two Davidson miscues to score two tries good for a total of 10 points.

The match ended on one of the most spectacular plays made by the Wildcats this year. A scrum was formed on the Crusader ten-yard line. Hooker Nick Tsantes won possession of the ball for the advancing Davidson scrum, allowing the scrum’s number-eight man, Pat McMaster, to grab the ball. He wheeled around the moving scrum and charged toward the end zone. McMaster met three Abbey defenders at the five-yard line and bulled forward for the final Davidson try, ending the game with the 22-10 score.

The win over Belmont Abbey improved the Davidson College Rugby Club record to 3-1. The only loss came a week ago Saturday against the N.C. State Rugby Club, the top collegiate team in the Carolinas. A combination of DCRC’s sloppy play and State’s bigger, quicker team resulted in a 23-3 loss to the Wolfpack.

Tomorrow, Davidson will travel to Belmont Abbey to complete the home-and-home series. The match starts at 1:00; the DCRC appreciates the support from the Davidson students and hopes to see more fans at the upcoming games.

Cross Country Bound for NAIA Nationals

By GARRY SULLIVAN ’83

This year Davidson’s harriers entered the NAIA, a division that features teams of roughly the same caliber as the Wildcats. The wisdom of this league change was evident last week at the regional meet, in which six Davidson runners were named All-District and qualified for the national championships in Kenosha, Wisconsin on 20 November.

The meet was run at Pembroke’s Riverside Country Club in conjunction with the monthly golf tournament. Many a golfer cursed those “damn runners” who usurped their sand traps and broke their concentration, but neither sporting event was greatly disrupted. The men’s race was dominated by the St. Augustine team, which filled four of the first five slots. Davidson’s Frank Ivey tried desperately to catch the top St. Augustine runner in the last few yards of the five-mile race but had to settle for a second-place time of 25:42, which was still fast enough to earn him a berth on the All-District team and a competitor’s number in the national meet. Equally impressive was the superlative finish of Jim Trotter, who later claimed that his key to success was rest and frequent consumption of Geritol. A fully recovered Jack Smith closely followed Trotter in a time of 27:39. Team metaphysician Bryan Zielinski and “Fleet-of-Foot” Frank Hague finished seventeenth and twenty-first, respectively, in the meet and grabbed the last two slots in the Wildcat fast five.

The female harriers surpassed everyone’s expectations with their performances at Riverside C.C. The Cats took command early and never let up, putting five runners not only in the top seven places but also on the All-District squad. Jean Webb reigned supreme with a five-thousand-meter time of 19:01 and was closely followed by Sarah Patterson. The depth of the team was again evident in the fourth, sixth, and seventh place finishes of Tamara Foreman, Chris Seel, and Karis Herrnstein. Seel and Herrnstein ran especially remarkable races and were both within fifty seconds of Jean Webb. The defeat of St. Augustine and Campbell qualified the female runners for the national meet and Davidson’s Sterling “Don’t-call-me-‘Yahweh’” Martin, named district Coach of the Year, is currently working with Coach Farrell to find funds for a much-deserved Lady Wildcat trek to Wisconsin.