Introducing Wildcats. This year’s edition of the Lady Wildcat basketball team is a young squad, with no seniors. What follows
is a short description of each player as given by Coaches Mayes and Boyer to help familiarize you with the
team.

Nancy Bondurant (So, g, No. 11). Nancy is the most improved player on the team from last year. Over the
past few years, she has gone from a role of not playing a great deal in high school, to an
in-and-out player with Davidson last year, to this year’s starting point guard. As she gains experience and confidence, she will
continue to improve. We would like to see her start shooting more often because she has a good outside shot.

Kathy Bray (So, f-g, No. 15). Kathy is the second fastest player on the team. She is one of our
most well-rounded players. We can use her as either a small forward or as a guard. She is a little
inexperienced and not used to playing in a set offense. In addition to being fast, she has a good shot
and is quick on defense. She will see more playing time in the future as she becomes more familiar with
the offense.

Amy (No. 24). Amy is without a doubt the fastest player on the team. Amy never played basketball in high
school. In fact, the first time was last year as a sophomore. She has a very good idea of how
a basketball game should be played but needs more time to refine her skills in order to be able to
play at that level.

Ann Elliott (So, f, No. 32). Ann is one of the most aggressive players on the team. She has a
very good concept of the game, is very quick, and has good jumping ability. The biggest adjustment for Ann has
been learning to play in an organized offense. As she gains more experience in this, she will play a vital
role for the team.

Mike Frankhouser (Jr, f, No. 40). Mike is one of the team’s biggest scoring punches. The Lady Cats look to
her and depend on her for points. In addition to this, she is one of the team’s top rebounders. Mike
has an excellent knowledge of the game. She knows what to do and how to do it. As one of
the team’s co-captains this season, Mike has done a good job of keeping the team together and providing leadership on
the court.

Debbie Hayes (So, g, No. 23) and Cathy Morell (Jr, f, No. 25).

Cats Grapple in the Tourneys

The Wildcat wrestling team went up against some “stiff competition”—in the words of Coach Robert Estock—in the Citadel Wrestling tournament
this past Saturday. That competition included South Carolina State and the Citadel, who took 39-6 and 51-0 respectively, our Davidson,
and Pembroke State, which edged the Cats 25-22. Davidson, in its turn, pasted East Tennessee State, 42-6.

“I think that South Carolina State and the Citadel were probably a little more physical than we thought they would
be. I don’t mean to say we were intimidated by them, but just surprised,” Estock said.

Against South Carolina State, the only points Davidson picked up came as 192-pound Mike Herbert won by forfeit. Davidson’s score
against Pembroke State was a bit more heartening, as the Wildcats lost 25-22. Davidson picked up three forfeits (at the
136 lb. and 152 lb. weight classes). Tom Oddo decisioned Damin Tobin 4-2 in the 128 lb. weight class, John
Breidinstine (160) beat William Snipe 11-1, and Tom Hissam edged Jeff Lasey 6-5.

“I was proud of the way we fought back against Pembroke after the South Carolina State match; we came back
and played it rough. I was proud of our performance and would have been so without the forfeits,” Estock said.

The Wildcat grapplers got their chance to pick a win against East Tennessee State. Davidson...Got there forfeits and won every
match except the heavyweight classification. Oddo pinned Dwayne McDermitt, Breidinstine edged Joe Rodriques 12-8, Chris Tiernan (158) defeated Chris Prescott,
Mike Kelly (169) pinned Calvin Smith, and Tom Hissam (179) pinned Mark Rudder. “I was really pleased with this match.
It was a good performance by our guys. It was good to pick up that one. It was a team
win, and it was a win for each of the guys. If everybody takes care of his own match, the
team score will be there. That’s exactly what we got against East Tennessee,” Estock said. The Citadel only dropped one
match, by forfeit, in blasting Davidson. The tournament was a good thing for us. You only get better by going
up against good people, and Citadel, South Carolina State, and Pembroke State are certainly qualified,” Estock commented. This weekend, the
Wildcats travel to Washington & Lee for a weekend tournament.

The 1981-82 Lady Wildcats team has several notable players:

Debbie and Cathy play very similar roles for the team. The people who play ahead of them have more natural
physical ability, but Cathy and Debbie both do an outstanding job coming off the bench. They both have the ability
to get right into the flow of the game, without having to “warm-up.” They are both very dependable and can
be counted on to do just what we want them to, both offensively and defensively, when we put them in
a game. Debbie and Cathy have seen more playing time recently and will see more in the future, as they
gain experience.

Kerry Holbrook (Fr, g-f, No. 21). Kerry is considered to be more of a wing player than a point guard
because her strength lies in her shot more than in her ball handling. She hasn’t seen much playing time this
year, but that is because as a freshman she lacks experience and at this time there are other players on
the team with more experience.

Sally Howell (Fr, C, No. 41). At 6’2” Sally’s very presence is intimidating. Her youth and inexperience in college basketball
have led to up and down scoring games for Sally. She needs to learn how to take advantage of her
height and use it more effectively. As a freshman starter, though, Sally has handled the pressure very well. She helps
round out the scoring and is one of the team’s top rebounders.

Caroline Rumley (Fr, g, No. 12). As a freshman, Caroline lacks experience. In practice, however, we see in her the
potential to be an excellent point guard. Her strength lies in her ability to pick out the open person. As
she gains experience, and thus composure, she will see more playing time, if not this year, definitely next.

Mitzi Short (Jr, g, No. 14). Mitzi is very quick, and at times can stir up trouble on defense and
cause the opposition to make a lot of turnovers. Mitzi has good knowledge of the game and great ideas. She
knows where the pass should go, but she needs to learn to be more controlled with her ball handling and
passing. As she gains this control and consistency, she will improve her game and be able to use what she
knows more effectively.

Jean Womack (Jr, f, No. --). As the other co-captain, Jean is the team’s other main source of leadership. Jean
has outstanding quickness. She is the best and most consistent defensive player on the team, in both a zone and
man-to-man. Jean has developed her shot this year and is much more of a scoring threat than she was last
season. (She and Frankhousen are the team’s leading scorers). In addition, Jean is also a good rebounder.

By Kara Gilmore ’85
Photo by Neil Cooksey ‘83

“I’m looking forward to it, and I hope the guys are looking forward to it,” said Estock.
