Piñatas at the scene in the luggage compartment of the Z-man’s vintage Volkswagen squareback had the rival in crescent. It floated like an iridescent October egg. An intense contrast between its brilliant edge, whose glow spread to the farther corners of its sphere, and the rich blackness of space surrounding it. This description can be extended metaphorically to cover the several styles with which the Police have teased us on their four albums. In each of their distinctly separate phases, their music has derived its effect from an interplay between what is stated and, just as importantly, what is left unsaid. A dark and spacious sound, their music excites us through the tension created by this contrast between bright regions of musical light and the black spaces in between.

Having seen the Police at the Fox Theatre last fall transform this complex musical structure into an exciting show of danceable rock which nonetheless retained its crystalline form, I was intrigued to see how they would perform the songs of their latest album, Ghosts in the Machine, which fills in the spaces between the instruments with horn and keyboard lines while somehow only heightening the contrast inherent in their arrangements. A hurried rush from the parking lot to the Coliseum gates and a quick glance at the T-shirt table seeking gifts for friends back home (sorry, no larges) left us breathless and expectant.

The appearance of the night’s warmup band, the Go-Gos, an up-and-coming all-female group capable of demanding the price of admission themselves, certainly fulfilled our expectations. Theirs was a rollicking, straightforward set, well received by the crowd. But, as can be expected in a band just beginning to define itself as an act, the Go-Gos occasionally displayed a lack of self-assured stage presence and performed their energetic numbers with a genial sloppiness. The Go-Gos were a perfect complement, visually and musically, to the Police. Their five members, crammed even closer together by the Police's stage equipment, filled the stage to overflowing, in contrast to the spaciousness which the same stage afforded the three-member Police. In addition, the simple muscularity of the Go-Gos’ songs provided a nice foil to the complexities of the Police. All such comparisons aside, the Go-Gos’ set (and well-deserved encore) was exciting and fun, and the crowd reacted enthusiastically to such songs as “This Town,” “Automatic,” “Skid Marks On My Heart,” and their hit, “Our Lips Are Sealed.”

Not to be outdone, the Police raised the level of excitement immediately as they opened with their two best-known songs “Message in a Bottle” and “Every Little Thing She Does Is Magic.” We immediately noted the presence of a rudimentary horn section (two saxophonists and a flugelhornist/trumpeter) off to one side which served as a simple solution to the problem posed by the more complex arrangements of their current album. These horns I found to be occasionally intrusive, as in their third number, “When the World Is Falling Down (You Make the Best of What's Still Around).” For the most part, however, these additionalHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Musicians only added strength to the sound the band was able to produce, and their clearly-enjoying-themselves Motown choreography heightened the spectacle. Still, we all came to see the band. The Police’s small member Copeland was perhaps the least arresting visually while at the same time being absolutely crucial musically; his nonstop, flailing-away-yet-controlled drumming providing a rhythmic tapestry on which the other two members laid down a sonic overlay of even greater intricacy. The bassist and singer, Sting, added to this rhythmic base and captivated the audience with his energetic stage presence and his engagement of the crowd in several chorus singalongs. The rapport he established was so complete that, even with the band off-stage on the completion of their set, the audience burst spontaneously into a singing of one of the group’s repeated vocal motifs. The entire show was marked by continuity through the use of these motifs (nonsense syllables like “Bevan”) in the songs themselves. 

This similarity is a result of the guitar style of Summers, who has been spoken of recently in magazines as the guitar stylist of the future. Summers remains content to fill in the space between bass and drums with chordal figures and with nuances rather than through direct statement. This style was apparent throughout the concert as Summers displayed his virtuosity in the Eric Clapton-Jimmy Page sense on only a few songs, such as “Bed’s Too Big Without You” and “Bring on the Night.” For the most part, however, he filled the Coliseum with airy, distorted sounds which fully exploited Sting’s bass lines harmonically and Copeland’s drumming rhythmically.

The Police’s set amiably combined songs from their new album and those from the second and third albums (Regatta de Blanc and Zenyatta Mondatta). The tunes from their hard-rocking first album (Outlandos D’Amour) were reserved for their two encores and brought the show to a most satisfying close. Reflecting on the concert as we headed back to our little island of decorum, we decided that the Police had succeeded. They had succeeded in conveying the greater complexities of their newer material (through the use of horns and such technological avant-gardisms as guitar synthesizers and pedalboards), they had succeeded in translating the music of their albums into a live form without rendering them lifeless, and above all they had succeeded in creating in the crowd the rock and roll response of enthusiasm and barely controlled exuberance. This last is, of course, the only reason to go to a rock concert, and Tuesday night’s Police concert was certainly worth the trip.

By Jeff Hamilton ‘82

---

Please let me know if you need any further assistance!