To the Editor:

I am writing this letter to Davidson students as both a Union Board member and a student. As chairman of the Popular Films Committee, I am held responsible for any misconduct in Love Auditorium during the showing of our movies. During Saturday’s showing of Apocalypse Now, a great number of people brought beer into the auditorium and left the empty cans on the floor at the conclusion of the movie. Physical Plant said that there were at least 200 cans and bottles in Love.

Some of those who brought in the beer might have been honestly ignorant of the rule which does not allow food, beverages, or smoking in Love Auditorium. Undoubtedly though, there were some who consciously violated the school’s regulation. Unfortunately, both of these groups are equally wrong — no beverages can be brought into the auditorium.

As a result of this recurring problem, the Union has reluctantly decided to have a security guard walk the aisles to restrict eating, drinking, and smoking in Love during the movies. I hope this will not cause too great of an inconvenience for movie-goers.

Richard Davis, Popular Films Chairman
Scot Myers, Fine Films Chairman

To the Editor:

Throughout our years at Davidson, we have read, discussed, and often deplored the condition of the Davidsonian. We have here consciously collected our thoughts and opinions regarding the present and future state of our school newspaper. These are not only vitriolic criticisms but suggestions which we hope will allow a school of intelligent students to produce a weekly paper reflecting their talents.

The Davidsonian right now is attracting very little interest among students. It is reaching but a small circle of supporters. Our criticism here might be countered by the classic response, “If you don’t like it, do something about it.” Well, we did; we elected a new editor.

To begin with, the photography in the paper is of the poorest quality. If, as your masthead indicates, you staff five photographers, where are the fruits of their labor? The pictures have lost all relevance and often lack any relevance to the stories they cover. Is each photo related to any story or is it part of a new write-in contest, “complete the caption for $50!”?

We feel, of course, that there are good points about the paper. The news briefs, for example, are good — they supply us with what we need to know about minor events. The calendar is also helpful, though most students would like to see more coverage of nightlife in the area.

The News section seems to be neglecting whole areas of interest to Davidson students. If you haven’t noticed, besides Poland and Africa, there is also Patterson Court, that seldom seen, seldom written about, nefarious section of the campus somewhere north of the library. We tremble to think that the earth-shattering, investigative expose which revealed the petroleum jelly scandal is more important than matters which really concern Davidson students.

The Features section of the paper is an undefined, boring group of articles. Features in any respectable newspaper initiate a creative and unique style of layout and design: eye-catching photography integrated into fresh designs of copy, graphics, and borders. Perhaps a touch of humor and some stories of student interest would help. Let DB and SS report weekly on the social and humorous facets of Davidson. The entire paper suffers from taking itself too seriously, and that’s too bad.

As for the Literary Supplement, now coming out every two weeks: granted Holland and Abbott are good, but shall we be seeing news and sports coverage in Hobart Park and the Miscellany? We think it’s better to leave fine arts to the fine parchment.

Soon, one comes across the Sports section and expects to see sports — all sports. Have the trustees already eliminated minor sports, or were those highland dancers jostling about the hockey field last term? Steve Soud’s articles are the only vestige of hope for sports coverage in the Davidsonian, but we wonder how long he can tolerate a deaf ear.

The editorial and opinions section is hard to analyze because one can often neither discern where it begins nor where it stops. We would like to see our paper adopt and...Support a consistent and partisan voice regarding issues of interest to students. Editorials and opinions articles are important but not twelve pages of chaos and a smattering of every viewpoint on every world crisis. Let’s leave Poland to Buckley and limit the opinions and editorial copy. Overall, the quality of the writers is commendable. They are only hampered by high-schoolish organization, administration, and appearance. The layout could be more attractive, and maybe find them. Specifically, you could even toss a few verbs into your headlines. This campus has the talent to produce a first-rate newspaper with award-winning writing — why not do it? It is now a humorless, Bohemian paper, and this is not a totally humorless nor totally Bohemian school. Not everyone eats at ATO and travels with Boho.

Paul Flood
Dave Fleming
Tom Schember
Steve Stine

To the Editor:

It is really frightening to think that our current President of the United States lives by such immature principles as “an eye for an eye” or “kill or be killed.” It has always been an understanding with me that one does not condone one wrong with another. Two wrongs definitely do not make a right, and yet Ronald Reagan is now planning to complement the Soviet Union for their new Nerve Gas weaponry. The use of gas was outlawed years ago as inhumane (not inhuman, because it appears to indeed be very human), especially for use on civilians. But now, it seems that in our new age of warfare where morals no longer exist, and the murder of children is accepted, we are constantly searching for new and improved ways to annihilate mankind. We see no limit to our possibilities. Why stop creating when we already have enough weapons to obliterate the species, most other life as we know it, and, what the hell, we might as well take the planet with us?

It feels like a trend has developed with scientists to try and invent better ways to kill. It’s all rather farcical, indeed absurd, but isn’t that the essence of war itself? And now gas. Why not revamp an old idea, if it works? It’s not as if they’re bringing back the Edsel, is it? This stuff really kills; it’s fantastic! People appear to drown on dry land under its influence, or they cough their lungs up and spit them onto the ground in a bloody pile. It is such a beautiful sight. I’m very proud not to have voted for a man who apparently condones such a ghastly method of murder: to die retching in agony, eyes agape; is this not murder? It certainly is not merciful. Why the hell doesn’t that maniac direct the funds he’s expending towards the development of counter-weaponry? Maybe even a neutralizing gas (if such a substance exists)? Maybe I’m a hopeless dreamer, but isn’t it more important that we should employ our efforts toward sustaining the species, rather than expunging it? Is life not a careless thing to waste? “MAKE LOVE, NOT WAR” does not sound like such a bad idea, even after all these years. Is there really someone out there who’s not afraid to “push the button” or to use such a hideous weapon as Nerve Gas? A senseless waste of humanity is all that I can see ahead as Reagan unfolds our future before us. But what can you do in the face of a nuclear holocaust? Kiss your children goodbye, I guess.

W.P. Donely

Dear Coach Hussey, c/o Editor

Throughout this past season, we students have been continually pleased and excited over the way the basketball program has developed. As you well know, the year began with a somewhat pessimistic outlook on the coming year. There was talk of the need to concentrate on recruiting, that this was a rebuilding year. The efforts and accomplishments of both the coaching staff and the players have shown these projections to be way off the mark. Under your direction, the team has become just that, a team in the true sense of the word. Their concern and dedication for each other and the job they were doing has been self-evident and has not been missed by the college community. The results show.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982