Trespasser Accosted! Campus police arrested a man for trespassing in the College Guest House the night of February 24. Raymond
A. Jackson, 22, a soldier stationed at Fort Polk military base in Louisiana, was charged with breaking and entering. Jackson,
originally from Davidson, had received a trespassing warning from campus police once before on March 30, 1980. This warning forbade
him to be on college property ever again. Campus police officer F. Wayne King said an unidentified female called the
police at 12:55 a.m. to report that a black male was walking around in the basement of the Guest House.
When King arrived a few minutes later, he found Jackson in a basement room. The room’s occupant was in the
shower next door. Jackson did not know the occupant. Jackson, who was intoxicated at the time of arrest, said he
was looking for his girlfriend. Jackson also said his car had been stolen and he was looking for it. King
found a bottle of nine white tablets inside Jackson’s coat. Jackson said he did not know how they got there.
Drug charges are pending lab findings. Jackson’s car was in the Guest House parking lot. Campus police Sergeant Henry Cook
and town police officer John Farrell found two brothers inside, Terry Franklin and Randy Lee McLeely, Terry for trespassing and
Randy for simple possession of marijuana. Terry had previously been given a trespassing warning at the time Jackson received his
first warning. All three men were taken to Mecklenburg County Jail. Jackson’s trial was set for 9:00 a.m. Thursday, March
18, in Charlotte. Terry and Randy were released after paying fines. Sue Ross commented, “People need to be aware how
easy it is for anyone to walk in off the street... The man was able to tell when the person
was out of the room because the blinds were open.” Ross went on to say, “The reason a bad situation
was averted” was that a student in Little “saw someone creeping around and called the campus cops.” She urges students
to take “normal precautions” and to “be careful.” Officer King requested students to report any suspicious events on campus to
the campus police at 892-5131. He added that callers should leave their names and room numbers to aid in any
investigation.

by Lorelei Keif ‘84

Ortmayer New Center Head Dr. Louis Ortmayer, Assistant Professor of Political Science, will take over as the new Director of
the Center for Special Studies next fall for a three-year term according to the Dean of Faculty T. C. Price
Zimmermann. President Sam Spencer appointed Ortmayer on the recommendation of Zimmermann and the Educational Policies Committee (EPC). Ortmayer has been
a member of the Center faculty for three years under former Dean Frank Bliss. Spencer also changed the title of
Dean of the Center to Director on the recommendation of the Executive Committee of the Faculty. According to Zimmermann, the
committee felt that the title of director was more appropriate for the type of programs at the Center. The title
of dean is a holdover from when the center was an Honors College, Zimmermann said. He added that the change
would not affect the current status of the director nor would therebe any changes in the overall structure of the
Center. Dr. Ortmayer will select his own faculty with the help of Zimmermann, Bliss, and the EPC. Zimmermann must approve
the final selection. Ortmayer said he will choose his faculty sometime this spring, after his overall plans become more stable.
The EPC, in keeping with President Spencer’s desire to encourage non-western studies, and an overall trend at Davidson encouraging international
education, recommended that Zimmermann choose someone who is not only interested in interdisciplinary studies, but who would be able to
develop an international program as well.

Although his ideas are still in the planning stage, Ortmayer anticipates that there will be three or four different sub-programs
under the general heading of international studies. Among these will be an area of international political economy which will be
similar in focus to the seminar which Ortmayer has taught at the Center before. Seminars in this area will focus
on questions of political economics such as trade and protectionism, multinational corporations, and North-South relations, he said. He has also
taught a course in Development Policy in Third World countries and one on the European Economic Community. Other areas of
focus might be foreign literature and culture, and global issues and problems, Ortmayer said. In the area of global issues,
he foresees studies concerning population control, ecology, energy, and nuclear proliferation. This area will probably work closely with the current
faculty Task Force on global concerns.

The Center will still be an umbrella for all types of interdisciplinary studies, Ortmayer said. Programs will still be designed
essentially by the students, and they will be able to work in any number of departments. Both Zimmermann and Ortmayer
hope to see more faculty involved at the Center in order to cover the many aspects of international education. However,
Zimmermann did not foresee expanding the number of full-time teaching Equivalents (FTE’s) that are used by the Center. At present
there are three to three and a half professors at the center, but these full-time slots can be filled in
any number of ways, Zimmermann said.

Ortmayer would also like to involve the wider community including alumni and other contacts in the economic field. “I would
like to see some public forums and symposia that focus on issues which concern people here in the Southeast,” Ortmayer
said. “For instance, many textile firms are in trouble because of, they say, cheap foreign competition. I want to explore
why these things happen and what should be done about it.” Ortmayer said he would like to emphasize function and
real issues. He said that involving the whole community would benefit students in terms of future employment and contacts with
alumni would help them see how a liberal arts education is being utilized in management and business.

Zimmermann hopes that the new focus will enable more of the student body as a whole to get involved in
international education. “We hope that by frequent symposia and speakers, we can make a greater impact on the curriculum. We’re
hoping that the Center can become a vehicle for promoting international education on campus and in the community,” by Jeff
Holland ‘84

Davidsonian, Friday 18 March
