a8 salted, es.

NO HIDDEN CHARGES
AND NO HARD SELL -

Low, low prices every day of the year; unlimited choice of books; fast, efficient, personal service on every order.

$6.00 annually

I certify that I am 18 or older. I will not transfer this book or write on it.

Nostalgic Book Club

19:
20
22 Magazine item
1 Family name in "The Grapes of Wrath"
Incursion
Swimming exercise
College in Los Gatos, California
Raison d'——
Radiates
Herbicide's target
Now's partner
—— point (center of attraction)
Fantastically overdecorated
Grampus
Coffee maker
Oriental truth
Chihuahua cheer
Comedian Louis ——
Furiously (3 wds.)
Tennis call
City in West Germany
Some hardhats
Nervous speaker
Woody, flower-bearing vine
Echo was one
Currently popular
Mack of the silents
Author Levin
Harem room
Long Island or Puget (abbr.)
Most common written word
Miss Field, for short
Breakfast favorite
Nonconformist
Dutch painter Jan
Ex-governor of Alaska
Ethereal
Prefix: spiral
Adjust the soundtrack, for short
Peter, Paul, and Mary, e.g.
Word in Guy Lombardo's theme song

9 Liberal (3 wds.)
10 Mine: Fr.
11 Brian of "Brian's Song"
12 Lemon of a car
16 Comes down ice
21 Perfect embodiment of something
23 —— Johnson, decathlon champ
30 "Pumping Iron" figure
33 Id: ——
35 Take to court
37 Rocky Balboa's domain
38 Lunkheaded
39 Wind-tunnel sound
40 Derivatives of a halogen
67 "Peter Pan" pirate
68 Prayer word

DOWN

Mandible
Mrs. —— cow
Imposes a fine
Pedestal part
Typewriter key
Pallas ——
Dander
Adulterate, in a way
Use the wrong word
Dog or schooner
Calm
Natural gas component
From that time or place
Chow ——
"...I could —— horse!"
Jack LaLanne's domain

collegiate camouflage

© Edward Julius

Collegiate CW79-16

Continued from page 1

Moments of the protest came when South African performer-poet Duma Ndlovu took the stage. Duma danced and chanted “What is
the way?—Rev—o—lu—tion!” He expected the crowd to respond by singing “rev-o-lu-tion” along with him, but instead they showed “peace.”

Non-violent and violent factions also collided at the beginning of the demonstration. The Sportacist League, a militant communist group excluded
by the March 27 Coalition, tried to break through the protest’s security lines. Several people were injured in the skirmish
and the camp intervened to break up the fight.

A wall of cops surrounded the Sportacist League and separated them from the rest of the group. The Sportacists started
shouting “we call for radical victory — you call the cops.”

Other factions also called for military victory by the Salvadoran leftists. David Christian, a member of the Industrial Workers of
the World, favors “self-determination for the workers and peasants.” He feels that “solidarity” will be the major issue of the
80’s. He also said that “if I had a crate of 38’s, I’d ship it down to El Salvador so
the people could defend themselves.”

Most of the crowd favored a non-violent solution, however. Lisa Bambina, a member of Columbia University’s Pax Christi, the International
Catholic Movement, thinks the US should “pull out its interests” and seek a “non-violent means” of resolving the crisis.

CISPES is one of the largest groups calling for a peaceful resolution. According to official handouts, the group will “join
together with others to oppose the overall Reagan policy of rapidly expanding militarism and intervention.”

Like all large protests, the crowd contained a few “cooks.” One man paraded around arguing that “fragging” is the best
solution to the crisis. “Fragging” is a Vietnam term that refers to a soldier assassinating a superior officer.

David Resnik ‘85

“HEY X-MAN, HOW DID YOU GET A NAME LIKE X-MAN?”

“X IS UNDEFINED, AS AM I. HOW DID YOU EVER GET A NAME LIKE NELSON ROCKEFELLER - THE THIRD?”

“I THINK THAT'S PRETTY WELL DEFINED.”

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 2 April 1982
