_Record REVIEWS __ with Jon Glance

There are a few performers who don’t fit into any prescribed genres: through their individuality (or idiosyncrasies) they seem to float on top of a number of musical styles without getting bogged down in one. One performer who has bridged the tenuous gulf between popular funk and New Wave is a 22-year-old androgyne named Prince. On 1999, his fifth album, Prince continues to explore the dark sociosexual surroundings of his last two LPs—Dirty Mind and Controversy. Prince sets his songs in a world where nothing anyone does really matters except in the most physical sense—therefore, sexual ecstasy is the only viable answer to imminent nuclear holocaust. 1999 never stops surprising the listener with this unique point of view. Prince’s persona on the LP leaps from dominating leather lover to vulnerable sex object, trying to fulfill everyone’s fantasy at once in this nonstop celebration of abandonment.

The title song on this album illustrates Prince’s philosophy—as the panic spreads over “judgement day” on the verge of the year 2000, Prince mildly explains that “life is just a party / And parties weren’t meant to last.” Instead of joining the running throngs in the street under the purple sky, he turns his back on 2000 and parties like it’s 1999; the message is “If I gotta die I’m gonna listen to / My body tonight.” The rest of the double album hymns this fundamentalist hedonism. Prince is one instant a would-be Lothario on “Let’s Pretend We’re Married” who pleads “Don’t you wanna be my fantasy / My girl’s gone, and she don’t care at all / And if she did, so what come on baby let’s ball.” Then he becomes a rejected, confused victim of love in “Something in the Water” and “Lady Cab Driver” (in this last song he once again seeks escape in a taxi, as in Controversy’s “Annie Christian,” and he begs “Will you accept my tears to pay the fare” before the cab ride becomes a sexual adventure). With such a peculiarly hedonistic slant to all the songs, one has to ask whether he’s serious—don’t expect to get an answer to this question, though. A gadfly like Prince doesn’t intend to give you something serious to hang onto in a world which he feels is pretty absurd. Listen to “D.M.S.R.” (or Dance Music Sex Romance) and its directions “Everybody, screw the masses / We only want to have some fun / Do whatever we want / Wear lingerie to a restaurant / Police ain’t got no gun,” which sums up the extent of Prince’s alleged ideals for revolution. Is he serious or what?

Although Prince may have some bizarre ideas about sex and the world in general, he is an exceptional musician. On 1999 as on his last several albums, Prince plays all the instruments, sings all the parts (with a few exceptions), writes and arranges all the songs, and produces them as well. While it might be expected that this total artistic control would lead to some degree of self-indulgence, Prince exhibits signs of this only in the rather excessive length of a few songs and in the filthier sexual passages. But then, this is a party album, so a few eight-minute songs aren’t necessarily a bad thing. While coming across at times like some mutant synthesis of Rick James, Kraftwerk, and an inflatable love doll, Prince is his own man; on 1999 he turns in some really killer songs that stretch out the variety of his repertoire without neglecting his major themes of sex, isolation, life in a degenerate society, and more sex. It is nice to see someone put out a well-planned double album (all the sides are different but thematically related) when most bands are trying to get you to spend your money on short EPs. If you have never heard Prince, check him out; whether you’re having a party or just feel like losing some inhibitions, he’s an intriguing example of the diversity of music being produced today.

BB goes to a BB game

Now that basketball season is back to give us all something to raise hell about, the B.B. decided to bounce over to Charlotte Tuesday night to catch the first in a series of games to be held inthe Coliseum. As you know, Davidson got wasted but so did we, and so we’ve got to tell you that the real entertainment doesn’t come from the game but from a few other things. Seeing how tomorrow night Davidson plays University of Massachusetts in Charlotte, we thought we’d recommend a few things to do before the game and point out what to look for once you’re there.

The Tip Off
The ride to the Coliseum is an important part of having a good time at the game. Because no booze or beer is available in the Coliseum, we suggest you make a quick beer stop before hitting I-77. If you’re tight on bucks, Cashion’s quick stop sells six-packs of Busch for $1.99. We recommend at least a six-pack per person in order to get each fan ready for the fun.

The Fast Break
After getting your beer and hitting the road, start drinking as you cruise down I-77. This is somewhat risky, but all we can say is that you’re vulnerable on the road so it pays to have good sense while you’re driving. Anyway, crank up the tunes, roll down the windows, and raise hell with all the other Davidson drivers rushing to the game. We had a good time exchanging beers with different cars. A note to the driver: when playing this game, be careful not to accidentally bump the other car off the road. It’s rude and perhaps illegal. However, half the fun of this anarchist’s game of skill is that there are no rules, so have fun and be careful.

The Slam Dunk
Once you arrive at the Coliseum, you can avoid paying the $1 parking fee by finding a spot in the IHOP parking lot. Once you’ve turned off the car, leave the tunes on as you quickly slam what’s left of the beer down your parched throat. Ah yes, the throat. Be careful with that part of your body because you’ll need it to participate in what is most fun about Davidson basketball games: shouting obscenities at the ref.

Pre-Game Show
What’s so great about the games in Charlotte is that student seats are so close to the court. What’s so great about sitting so close to the court is that you know the refs can hear everything you’re screaming. When you enter the Coliseum, go find your seat and get comfortable. While waiting for the game to start, have a laugh by checking out the crowd. What’s a real scream are the people from Charlotte who pay five bucks and think they’re seeing a real match or something. Get warmed up by yelling salutations across the court to your friends. Keep an eye out for any Davidson students in blazer, tie, and shades. This type of attire is not recommended. Instead, wear jeans and a loose-fitting shirt; it’s much easier to flail your arms about. Besides, screaming makes you sweat, so you’ll really not want to wear a coat of any sort. Also, by wearing upper-class clothing like coat and tie to a basketball game, your chances of getting rolled for being a wise-ass are a lot higher.

How to Scream at the Ref
Once the game begins, note the little men in black and white striped shirts and black slacks. These guys are the refs and they are your enemies. Once the first foul is called on Davidson, let the striped wimps have it. If you’re still not sure what to do, find Jeff Andrews in the crowd and watch closely. Always stand up when you scream and use your hands to direct your sound toward the court. Halfway into the first half you’ll be into it so much, you won’t have to worry about what to say, it'll just come naturally.

Post-Game Blow Out
After the game, you’ll be in need of some more beer in order to soothe your parched throat. Surprise! It’s only 9:30 p.m. and the night is very open to suggestions, so take advantage of the circumstances and find the nearest beer stop. So, all you Wildcat fans, enjoy yourselves Saturday night and let the refs know you’re thinking about them.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/10 December 1982