Features

Master Potter At Davidson

MacKinlay Zimmermann demonstrates his craft

By ANNE LAMBERT ’86

In the middle of the Union Conversation Pit, he works in silence. Hunched over his kickwheel, deep in concentration, he
is apparently oblivious to the crowd around him. Teachers, students, and community members watch in fascination as MacKinlay Zimmermann, "master
potter," labors to create another of the original works that have made him a successful and respected artist in the
field of pottery.

Zimmermann, brother of Davidson Vice-president of Academic Affairs T. C. Price Zimmermann, visited the campus Friday, 24 September through Monday,
27 September to exhibit his pottery, give demonstrations, and instruct aspiring potters.

A professional potter since 1972, Zimmermann makes Knoxville, Tennessee his home. In addition to his private business, he currently serves
on the commission for the World’s Fair, creating gifts for visiting dignitaries.

Friday morning Zimmermann began his exhibition with a casual coffee and doughnut “meet-the-artist” break. Zimmermann demonstrated his craft for a
curious audience. He did not lecture, but he responded to questions and added an occasional dry-witted comment like, “Ya know,
pottery is the second oldest profession in the world.”

The exhibition will put him a little behind in his work at home, but he was nonetheless “very excited” about
the show at Davidson. “It’s a very discerning public here and an academic setting. That’s the motivation I'll need to
go back and get to work again.” In Knoxville, Zimmermann is privately commissioned to create art for patrons. He also
exhibits his work in craft fairs and galleries.

Zimmermann is not a typical “struggling young artist” story. At the age of 35, he quit an executive position in
a manufacturing firm because he “couldn’t handle” the responsibility. A friend taught him the basics of pottery and he enrolled
in the University of Tennessee where he received his graduate degree in ceramics.

“When I finished the University, the idea came to me — ‘gosh, now I have to do something.’ Whatever you
may be doing [studying] is great within the confines of an academic institution, but once you're outside... can you handle
it?

“When I left [my old job] I heard comments like, ‘You know, Zimmermann used to be a real nice guy...
Now he’s gone off the deep end.’ But I proved a point six years later. It kinda changed things around.”

Zimmermann has the credentials of an art degree, but he asserts that the artistic process calls for more than formal
training. “You need to learn, but you also need to assimilate, so that when you are creating a piece of
pottery you don’t remember [the techniques]; you just practice.”

He finds an inner motivation for his work. “In graduate school they told us, ‘You gotta have a notebook. You're
just not gonna make it without a notebook’... I can’t work that way. I find inspiration comes from doing, by
doing it over and over. You're thinking as you're working, and the concepts start happening. And that’s the real creative
process.”

As an artist marketing his craft, he relies on the skills his previous career taught him. “There are no set
rules for this game of selling art, but it does require a little business sense. It requires pushing, and that’s
not fun but you gotta do it.

“What is the cost of a piece of art? How can you figure that?” Zimmermann does not feel threatened by
the technology and mass production of art, because he believes he has an advantage. “There’s one thing we missed in
the Industrial Revolution, and that was that the machine has everything but a heart... and that’s what we missed.

“Creativity’s a funny thing,” Zimmermann says of his work. “Everybody has it in one degree or another. I think creating
something from nothing takes a little more talent, but I don’t like to consider myself that different from people.”

Zimmermann and his craft have a self-described mission: “The purpose of my pottery is to continue in the tradition of
classical timelessness.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN/11 October 1982
