— To the Editor:

Liberalism at the Davidsonian has descended to a record low in the form of previous editor John Siman's letter to
the editor of January 22. In responding to letters of the previous week written by Stokes Peebles and myself, Mr.
Siman displays the misguided mindset that is characteristic of your publication. Initially, notice that Mr. Siman interprets and distorts my
remarks, not to mention Stokes’ positive thought, in order to arrive at a philosophical criticism of what he, Mr. Siman,
considers to be arch-conservative educational policy. My remarks dealt solely with the event of the Davidsonian and not with the
function of a College or University.

In publicizing an opinion disagreement, one should cautiously proceed with the written material to which he or she disagrees at
hand, guarding against over-generalization and distortion. Mr. Siman obviously has never taken heed to such advice, as is evident in
comparing my letter and his subsequent response. I never stated or insinuated that “College is not a place to challenge
conventional values but rather to absorb them,” as Mr. Siman implies. My letter strictly emphasized the value of balancing a
campus newspaper in terms of the socio-political spectrum to provide equal time for those of different ideological persuasions. Former editors
and their hand-picked successors do not have a mandate to direct the campus newspaper or forum of campus opinion from
a personal ideological stance. You have a responsibility to present material of pertinence to the entire student body. If a
campus newspaper balances its position by printing material from the Left to large, it will be sustained; whereas a “fine
arts dominated attack on the status quo” will alienate a segment of the student body. A socio-educational newspaper balances its
position by presenting a difference of opinion in addition to “conventional values.” “Conventional values” should definitely be challenged, but they
should also be positively presented.

I sincerely hope that Mr. Siman’s intellectual ego has been assuaged by writing a satirical, tongue-in-cheek response, because he has
not refuted my emphasis in the least. His letter does not deal with my thought, but I would invite any
rational challenge to my moderate, libertarian conservative position (which should hardly be confused with Eric Christenson’s brand of libertarianism). I
respect Mr. Siman’s position of leftist overtones and only desire such respect in return. Mr. Siman, try concentrating on my
stated point instead of resorting to interpretive, sensational satire.

Lastly, if the Davidsonian continues in the intellectual tradition of Mr. Siman, the newspaper will not be worth the paper
it’s printed on. Take heed, Stewart, and please, no typos in my copy.

Van Beck

To The Student Body:

What is the point of earning degrees, having a series of letters following our names, and landing a “good” job
if in the process our minds become dull, weary, and stupid? Is it not important to ask ourselves why we
are educating or being educated? The closing paragraph of the college’s Statement of Purpose asserts that “In gratitude for what
has been accomplished, but in humble recognition that it (Davidson College) has not fully measured up to its own ideals
either in learning or life, its trustees, its faculty, its students, and its friends must constantly rededicate themselves to their
task.” Is, as this statement purports, the college in a constant state of reexamination of and rededication to the educational
process?

The function of education is not merely to aid man in his conforming to the pattern of social order. Intelligence
is the capacity to think freely. Constant inquiry and constant observation, that is the soul of learning. But do the
majority of classroom situations foster or demand free thinking? Are constant inquiry and constant observation hallmarks of the Davidson student?
Is the knowledge acquired in the classroom carried beyond that environment? If so, then why are carefully collected notebooks of
class notes found in the trash at the end of each term? Is that all Davidson courses are, notes compiled
in a hundred-page wire-bound notebook, trashed following the final exam? The value of a liberal arts education should be the...Integration
of discipline learned in the classroom with experience outside the environment. Education is an unending process of reevaluation. I would
like to see greater evidence of rededication to and reevaluation of the education process on the part of Davidson students,
faculty, and administration, and I would like to think that I am not alone in this desire.

By Sally Sharp
Senior Art History Major

To the Editor:

I have eaten at the Commons probably a dozen times and have enjoyed it. The food is fine and there
is a selection, the building is beautiful, and the atmosphere is pleasant. I even sat near Thurston Hatcher’s table (a
really nice guy) and endured the “jerk test”—he didn’t move away!

Yet every large university in this nation boasts of fine food (with a selection) in a beautiful building with pleasant
atmosphere. Our college, remember, boasts of overcoming all characteristics of mass education, especially with its “small-group social system provided by
the...houses on Patterson Court.” (1981-82 catalogue, p. 23)

I cannot begin to describe “what my house means to me.” It’s something impossible to put into words, unlike the
Commons’ “expanse, varied menus, and plenty of empty tables” (something every eating house tries to avoid).

To the Class of ’85: It is in your power to make or break Patterson Court. I could beg you
not to put us out of business. Instead, I beg you not to make a mistake you will regret. Only
by joining Patterson Court will you experience the best it has to offer.

Signed,
Lindsay L. Biddle ’83

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 29 January 1982

To the Editor:

Last Friday I read a very interesting letter by John Krotchko in The Davidsonian concerning the ice situation on sidewalks
and steps around campus. I agreed with him wholeheartedly. By 8:15 Saturday morning I was forced to agree with him
“wholebodiedly” as well as I picked myself up from the bottom of a set of icy steps, having sustained a
broken left elbow as a result of physical plant neglect! Just as John Krotchko loves danger to keep his mind
alert and occupied, my mind was occupied with my upcoming rifle match and not necessarily alert to the danger of
the ice-covered steps—which didn’t look ice-covered in any event.

Perhaps it is not the first priority of the College to de-ice every campus footpath immediately, but if the physical
plant can completely remove a fallen tree within 24 hours, it would seem only reasonable that the paths could be
cleared within a week. They weren’t. Luckily for my parents, the College has accident insurance on all its students, but
it would have cost a lot less to de-ice the steps. Further, it would cost far less to de-ice the
steps than to have to deal with a lawsuit over Daddy’s $7,000-a-year investment. But then again, maybe this is just
a plot to undermine so-called “minor” sports...

Elizabeth Brazell ’83

To the Davidson Community:

Dear me! It seems as though my letter of last week was grossly misunderstood by quite a few people. Please
let me clarify my statements a little. I, in no way, meant to cut down the Classics department. Drs. French,
Davies, and Labban have gone out of their way to accommodate upper-level students as best they can. What I was
objecting to was the demands on their time by the administration to teach lower-level courses (plus Humanities) which does limit
the time they can spare. This happens in other areas too, though, as I mentioned. And if I seemed arrogant
about my intelligence, well, please forgive me. For, I have been on both sides of the academic fence, i.e., having
much background in an area or having none at all. In both cases, the situation was not as rewarding as
it could have been, had the professors had time to specialize and work with the individual students.

Again, I apologize if I ruffled too many feathers with my letter. I meant not to tear down anything or
anyone but to put to you the questions, “Is Davidson education all it really could be?”

F. Forio ’82
