CWS 10rtS

College Bowl Season Ends

The College Bowl team returned from last week’s National Championship Tournament at New York’s Roosevelt Hotel with mixed feelings. They lost to Vassar in the first round, 300-130, but accomplished a great deal during the course of this year’s competition. The team made it to the quarterfinals of the National Tournament and finished its season tied for 5th place in the country. The team accomplished these feats during their first year of intercollegiate play, an achievement coach Hansford Epes called “extraordinary.”

When compared to Davidson’s traditionally strong showing, this year’s record seems disappointing, but Epes claims that’s only because “we’re spoiled.” On the basis of the final score, the Vassar College Bowl team (ironically enough composed of four male students) routed Davidson. Coach Epes felt his team played well, but that it was simply Vassar’s game. “We didn’t lose, they won,” he said.

Epes praised the outstanding play of Davidson team members Brad Mullis, Marvin Overby, John Eglin, and Gordon Turnbull, who was selected to the All-East team. The youth of Davidson’s squad bodes well for the future. Four team members will return next year, and John Eglin has two years remaining. The team’s official season is over, but they will continue to practice informally and will give an exhibition match against the faculty team this spring.

Jeff Hamilton ’82

Ardvini has served as part-time assistant football coach for three years and has assisted the Davidson wrestling program for two years. He graduated from Norwich University in Vermont in 1977, where he earned All-East and All-New England honors as a defensive tackle. Ardvini replaces Tom Miller as defensive football coach and Bob Estock as wrestling coach. Estock will take over additional football duties and Miller resigned to coach at the Citadel. “He (Ardvini) will make a valuable addition to our staff,” said Farrell, “We are delighted that he is with us full time.”

David Resnik ’85

Development

The pile of bricks taking shape behind the Commons will not be just another sidewalk; it will be a new dining terrace, according to Food Service Director Carlton Pritchard. The terrace will provide “greater freedom in terms of food activity, programming, and flexibility,” Pritchard said. He plans to use the terrace for parties, cookouts, and outdoor dining. Although mud surrounds the terrace at the moment, it should be “well landscaped” by fall. Construction of the brick porch began on 30 March 1982, and Pritchard expects it to be completed by 15 May 1982. When the terrace is ready, says Pritchard, the Commons will throw the “biggest garden party in the world.”

David Resnik ’85

Ardvini Appointed Coach

Davidson Head football coach and athletic director Edward Farrell has announced the appointment of Vince Ardvini to assistant football coach and wrestling coach. “Vince is enthusiastic and has an excellent background,” Farrell said.

Education Cuts 1982 Federal

(CPS) — After more than a year of haggling, Congress has finally approved a federal higher education budget for fiscal 1982. The House and Senate are just starting committee work for the fiscal 1983 budget, which would fund programs from October 1, 1982 through Sept. 30,1983. Congress’ final budget for 1982 devotes about $5.5 million to postsecondary education. Though Bob Aaron of the American Council of Education called the final budget “the first milestone for Congress to block the president on education,” it also represents an 18 percent cut from the 1981 federal college budget. Of the 30-some postsecondary programs administered by the federal government, only one — a program to provide institutional funds for meeting discretionary “special needs” — enjoyed a budget hike over 1981 levels. The increase of 3.7 percent was considerably below the inflation rate. Aid to land-grant colleges under the second Morrill Act was the only federal program to get the same amount — $2.8 million — for 1982 as it got in 1981. Two federal programs were not funded at all. The cuts, however, were far less drastic than President Ronald Reagan proposed in his 1982 budget proposal, delivered February 1981. Congress could not agree on the Reagan proposals by the time the fiscal 1981 budget ran out in September. Legislators passed an emergency budget to keep federal programs alive until they could make a final decision on the budget, which they finally did April 1, 1982. In the meantime, of course, President Reagan had already made his proposals for the 1983 fiscal year. The President proposes ending 16 of the 30 federal college proposals, and cutting the total postsecondary education budget to $4.5 billion, another 17 percent drop from the 1982 budget Congress just approved.

Sports Budget

“We haven’t got a finalized budget in our hands yet,” says athletic director Ed Farrell, “which isn’t unusual.” The 1982-83 athletic department budget still awaits approval by the Trustees and may not be final until fall. Farrell says that his proposed budget is “pretty much comparable to this year’s,” but that it will include an across-the-board slight increase to cover the cost of living.” Of this increase to counter inflation, Farrell says, “We looked at each item and more or less increased the same amount.” Physical education, intramural, and women’s basketball budgets, which were cut back this year, will be restored to their former status. No funds are provided for the swimming team because it has disbanded. Other men’s and women’s “non-revenue” sports will receive more money for recruiting.

Diana Bohrer ’85

Convocation Awards

The following awards were announced at last Friday’s Convocation ceremonies:

Sandy Black Memorial Award (to the most outstanding senior premedical student) — Eric A. Weiss  
David Halbert Howard Jr. Award — Edgar W. Harlan  
Presser Scholarship (outstanding music major) — Cynthia A. Clark  
A. K. Phifer Award (for distinguished record in economics) — Edgar W. Whitesides  
Jefferson Davis Award (for constitutional law) — Neil Cooksey  
Bremer German Language Award — David M. Rowe  
Thomas D. Sparrow Award (for contribution to intercollegiate athletics) — James M. Hall  
Susan Roberts Award (outstanding senior woman athlete) — Sarah A. Tomlin  
James Baker Woods III Memorial Award (to a rising senior ROTC cadet) — Harry R. Easterling  
George C. Marshall ROTC Award — John M. Shaw  
Daniel Blain Woods Award (to senior premedical student exhibiting qualities of a good doctor) — Debra E. Freeman  
Richard Ross Memorial Music Award — Joan L. Redding  
William G. McGavock Mathematics Award — Chemistry