record rm, proud of...

D: How did you manage to make being in the army a cultural experience?

CW: The army was my college. I learned more in the four years I was in the army, particularly the
three years I was in Italy, than in the entire 21 years before that time. Of course, I was lucky—I
was in the Army Intelligence Corps. I didn’t have to wear a uniform and could live in town. Thanks to
ROTC, I was an officer, so I had a little money in my pocket. And I was in Italy—an incredible
area, culturally. I discovered painting and read my first poems seriously. I started trying to write poems and realized that
this was what I had been wanting to do—not fiction, poetry. My mind goes in flashes and starts and fits
and bursts and works associationally, the way poems do. The world really changed for me. Italy was a piece of
canvas and I was paint, and something just kept spreading me all over it. Everything was gorgeous and lovely and
new.

D: Did you write about Italy while you were there?

CW: I didn’t write about anything while I was there. I was mostly copying Ezra Pound’s poems. Pound was the
first poet I read, so naturally, I have a great affection for him. I was fortunate that when I first
read his poems, I didn’t know anything about them. I just let them wash over me—a lot of it I
didn’t understand, but I knew I liked the way it sounded. If you worry about what it says, you'll never
be able to write. I still think Pound’s poetry is gorgeous. We write today largely because of the things Pound
made people do. His economics and politics were almost without exception incorrect—and not only incorrect but aggressively bad at times.
But I think you can separate the poetry from the man.

D: Some of your newer poems, like “Homage to Paul Cezanne” and “The Southern Cross,” are highly innovative in form.
Do you consistently experiment with form?

CW: The longer I write, the less formally structured my poems seem to be on the surface. But I feel
they have more structure underneath. Form flows and structure stabilizes. But the stabilizing element is flexible. “Homage to Paul Cezanne”
was an experiment in non-linear form. It goes like an overlay—like plastic maps. You get all eight overlays and it’s
a whole. Of course, for the reader, this is unimportant. The reader simply likes or doesn’t like the poem—enters or
doesn’t enter.

D: There’s a strong thread of spirituality in you. Do I sense an ambivalence between a hopefulness expressed in images
of cycles and a hopelessness, a feeling of incompletion? Do you have this ambivalence in your own spiritual outlook?

CW: Very much. I grew up in the Episcopal Church. Up until the age of 16, it was very important
to me, and then I stopped—or it stopped. But there’s obviously a great holdover. Everyone has the “What’s it all
about, Alfie?” feeling. Either you think about it or you don’t. I think about it all the time. It gets
into my poems. It’s what I say in “Reunion”: I write poems to untie myself, to say grace. It’s my
way of paying homage to whatever is out there. I try to come to terms with it. Of course, you
can’t come to terms with it. Never can. Which is wonderful for writing because if you could, you’d stop writing.
Everything gets deeper, vaster, farther away. The closer you get to the ultimate understanding of it—which is probably eternal extinction—the
wider it gets.

D: How do you live your life so that you have the inner space to do these things?

CW: Like Mike Martin, you have to make your life and what’s important to you. Don’t say “I’ll do it
later”—there is never a later. You’ve got to be strong to give things up if you want other things.

D: How do the folks back home feel about your poetry?

CW: I don’t think they know anything about it. The woman who wrote Kinflicks was from my town. That caused
a stir. Most people can read novels. Poetry takes too much effort. Poetry tells you about yourself, and the more
you know about yourself, the harder it is to get through the day. Getting through the day the easiest...way. This
is how most Americans lead their lives.

D: But Europeans are different in this respect?

CW: Europeans have less monetarily but more spiritually. They read poetry because they know that life is serious. We don’t
know life is serious. Life is in dead earnest, and we still don’t know that. Everything about this society tries
to keep it from us. And those who know life is in dead earnest can’t read. I think television is
the ruination of civilization. It’s one of the reasons there are no regional eccentricities anymore. T.V. is taking the roots
away from people. It puts more people to sleep every year — and they’re asleep for the rest of their
lives. Of course, the cause is avarice. T.V. and advertising are only symptoms. It just drives me crazy that people
are getting bamboozled like this and loving every minute of it.

D: How do you wake people up?

CW: You have to wake yourself. You tell people to wake up, they fall deeper into sleep.

D: Do you like to teach?

CW: Not really. I’m not a natural-born teacher. I don’t have that messianic desire to explain that great teachers do.
Which isn’t to say I don’t get involved. I don’t like poetry readings, either, but once I start I find
myself enjoying it. One of the problems about teaching writing is you can’t teach people how to write. You can
teach them how to avoid mistakes, how to edit, how to endure pain, to mutilate themselves — but you can’t
teach them how to write. I’m a firm believer that one is never deeply taught anything; they teach it to
themselves. That’s why you are in a state of grace at the moment of learning. If you are open and
ready, and the teacher has something to say and your paths cross, then one is a great teacher and the
other is a great student.

D: You said you thought “Homage to Paul Cezanne” from The Southern Cross was the best poem you’d ever written.

CW: At one time I did. It was definitely a big poem for me.

D: Could you talk through the poem — how it came about?

CW: It was in a way an exercise in technique. It’s supposed to show the method used in the rest
of the book. It’s aggressively non-linear and accretive. I wanted it to end up somehow a representational ideogram of the
abstract notion of how the dead affect our lives. So I took the most concrete abstraction I could think of,
which is the dead — because everyone knows very concretely what the dead are even though they’re abstract. I tried
to work various ideas and images about the dead into this giant ideogram. To say that the dead still rule
our lives because they have never left.

D: Why Cezanne?

CW: Because of the way he painted. It’s not a poem about Cezanne, obviously. In his last years from 1896
to 1906, he painted landscapes down in Provence — particularly the Mont Sainte Victoire landscapes. If you look at them
you’ll see there’s not a straight line. It’s all little hooks and slashes. Then you get farther back and houses
appear and trees appear and soon you have this very representational landscape. I was hoping to get that effect —
a representational poem not presented representationally. “The Southern Cross,” on the other hand, has a submerged narrative line which comes
up and then sinks down again, the way memory does. My new poems have this same submerged narrative. I think
the most interesting narrative line is that which is least in evidence. Which isn’t to say I don’t like Frost,
who is a wonderful narrative poet. It is easiest for me to follow the submerged rope. But I’ve always got
my hand on the rope.

D: Is there a central theme to the poems you are working on now?

CW: The two things I always seem to go back to are Italy and east Tennessee-North Carolina. The first section
of what I’m working on now is of American poems — rambling poems. The second section is called Italian Days,
and I’m just unabashedly writing some more poems about Italy. But that's going to be the end of it, I
think. I don’t know what I’m going to do after that.

D: You'll start writing about California?

CW: I’m going to have to make up something.

Elizabeth Kiss ’83
News Editor Emeritus (Elizabeth was former editor of The Davidsonian)
