The Academic Masochism? SPC Proposal Draws Support

To the Editor:

After finding out just a few days ago about the SPC proposal of switching over to the semester plan, I have come to a firm conclusion concerning this issue. It sounds great! Having talked quite extensively about the matter with many faculty members and students, I cannot find anything wrong with the idea.

First and foremost, I think the proposal would add an enormous amount of flexibility to most students' schedules. Being an athlete on a varsity sport, I couldn’t ask for anything more. Under the current system, if I miss a couple of days for an intercollegiate athletic event, I face an incredible burden of “catch up” upon my return to Davidson. This often gives me little free time to do anything but play my sport and study long hours.

But this plan would be good for all. Under the current system, all I ever hear is how much a person is going to have to cram for his next test because of the two tests and a paper that had to be done earlier that week. Is this really a good learning system? It would be nice to have academic assignments spread out over a longer period of time and give students more time to think about the courses they’re taking. Furthermore, because of the current system’s intensity, it is not unusual to hear about students getting “burned out” and becoming apathetic toward their courses.

Another advantage would be that a semester system would align Davidson’s schedule with those of most other colleges and universities. Breaks would also be much better. While still maintaining a week-long fall and spring break, Christmas breaks would be extended for four weeks. This longer break would be nice for those students who are far away from home and don’t have the opportunity to go home too often during the school year.

Although many have said that a semester plan would somewhat compromise Davidson’s academic integrity by lightening course requirements, I believe this would not occur if students were given the option of taking five courses during one of the two yearly semesters. I guess the only disadvantage I can see in this new proposal is the fact that it would upset a few members of the faculty who would have to change their current yearly routine schedules.

- Mark Nottingham '84

To the Editor:

Academic masochism. These words are closer to the hearts of most Davidson students than are cookies from home. We study on Friday nights, during football games, over meals, and on the throne. We derive a sort of unnatural pleasure from taking two mid-terms back to back. We get an unhealthy sort of gratification from boasting two papers and three tests all in the same week. The most unusual aspect of this disease of self-flagellation, however, is that we hardly notice it anymore. And yet, its manifestations are all around us! It is evident not only in the students’ readiness to abuse themselves but also in one of the fundamental philosophies that underlies the Davidson Experience: the beloved (sick) Trimester System.

Alarmingly, the Trimester System has nearly become a fetish. Some freshmen today even think that they came to Davidson because of it! Imagine, choosing Davidson just to be able to go to each class every day, just to be able to do homework for each class, every day. Where will it all stop? Five classes per day per trimester? Six? Perhaps there will be Study Police charged with the responsibility of seeing that every student studies a minimum of four hours daily per class hour. Or perhaps the Union Café will become someone’s study carrel and leisure time will become an Honor Code Violation. We must not let this happen; we must exorcise this sado-masochistic tradition of the Trimester System from the soul of Davidson campus!

Yes, it’s going to be tough. Our position is analogous to the man who started hitting himself on the head with a hammer just because he knew how good it would feel when he stopped. We, the students, however, have been hitting ourselves so hard that we have forgotten that we were supposed to have stopped. But we must try now.

Students of Davidson, unite! Free yourselves from the chains (and whips) of academic masochism before we all experience the menopause of intellectual sterility. After all, a Davidson without...Out trimesters is not a Davidson without sunshine. Concernedly yours, Barry Elledge ’85

Controversy Consumes Quips & Cranks Candids

To the Editor:

As concerned seniors, we are alarmed about the memo recently sent from the Quips and Cranks staff to all seniors. The upshot of this memo is that the traditional senior candid section of the yearbook is to be replaced this year by a story—in pictures and narrative “highlighting the Class of 1983’s Davidson years.”

We are distressed by this for two reasons. First, it seems that this decision has been made by the yearbook staff without even consulting the senior class. We have been told by staff members that this decision was made because the Q and C budget is not large enough to cover the cost of the candid section. In light of the facts that the yearbook budget is larger this year than in years past and that substantial sections of costly color photographs could be run in black and white, these excuses seem inadequate. There is a growing concern that the yearbook staff is more interested in producing an annual that will win prizes and pad resumes than in producing one that will suit the student body.

Second, we feel the proposed “new format to improve the senior section” is farcical. The memo instructed seniors who want to have their photographs printed in the new section to submit only 5 x 7 glossy, black and white prints. Now, realistically, how many seniors do you know who regularly take 5 x 7 photographs? We suggest that what we will get, if this new section is included, is a section of photographs depicting what the few avid photographers on campus—most of them Q and C staff members—think is important about the last four years here. The pictures may be more technically correct, but they will not as accurately reflect the interests of the senior class.

The senior class is not a monolithic entity, but rather some 370 individuals. It is unrealistic to contend that the senior class has many unified interests or experiences. Our interests are diversified, our experiences varied. Senior candids are supposed to be personally meaningful statements that serve as expressions to sum up our feelings of our lives at Davidson. The proposed system will simply fail to do this.

Marvin Overby ’83  
David Simpson ’83  
Bob Buchanan ’83  
Lance Stokes ’83  
John Edwards ’83

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 15 October 1982

To the Editor:

It has come to my attention that there are several misconceptions about the way in which Quips and Cranks is planning the senior section this year.

First, a letter sent to all seniors explains the format we are implementing in the yearbook. A careful reading of this letter should appease any fears that we are eliminating senior candids.

Second, the editorial decision to change the format of the sections was based on a strong desire to upgrade the quality of Quips and Cranks and to utilize space in a more effective way. What we are doing is soliciting photographs from seniors and underclassmen that will tastefully, humorously, and accurately represent the past four years. Along with these candids will be a story highlighting the Class of 1983’s Davidson experience.

Through this method of soliciting but not requiring candids from seniors, we hope to have created a more positive approach to designing the senior section. Thus, any senior or underclassman who wishes to submit a candid for the senior section may do so. However, the Quips and Cranks editors will select the photographs that are of best quality and that best represent the past four years. We prefer that only black-and-white photographs be submitted. (Color photographs reproduce poorly.) The deadline for turning in photographs is 6 December 1982. They may be turned in to Mike Allen (Watts 003), Jim Reese (Duke 113) or the Quips and Cranks office (in the Union).

The photograph should be put in an envelope, along with a sheet of paper including the name of the person turning the photograph in, who’s in the photo, what event is taking place and when the photo was taken. If seniors have picture ideas but don’t have access to a camera or to black-and-white film, then the Quips and Cranks staff is happy to provide a photographer, a camera, or film. Please join in and take a part in making Quips and Cranks 1983 Davidson’s best yearbook ever.

Sincerely,  
Jim Reese, editor-in-chief  
Quips and Cranks 1983