End of an Era —

Davidson Swims History Too

Little Cold Cash and Too Much Hot Water

The swimming team—Davidson’s best-kept secret—is no more. They voted last December to dissolve the team.

The problem boiled down to something scarce in the Athletic Department—money. Money for winning and money for a new pool.

Across the past three seasons, Wildcat swimmers accumulated a 32-11 record. None of those was held at Davidson. “Home” meets
were held at UNCC, site of the nearest Southern Conference regulation-sized pool.

At the beginning of the season, the Athletic administration informed Coach Pat Miller, in her eighth year as coach, there
would be no team next season. The swimmers were willing to continue and were actually fired up for their one
final season. But the camel’s back broke when the Department cut off funds for the team’s Christmas break training trip.
That training trip, which cost approximately $350 per swimmer, was the backbone of the program. The six hours a day
of intense practice were the foundation of the season. The trip “gets us on a level with the people we’re
competing against,” according to Co-captain Mike Schremmer, a four-year veteran of the program.

On Wednesday, December 9, several of the team members met to discuss the rapidly-growing discontent with the new decision. Coach
Miller didn’t attend because “she didn’t want to bias it,” according to Schremmer.

The team voted to dissolve and took their proposal to Acting Athletic Director Ed Farrell. Farrell was understanding. Schremmer summarized
the meeting, “He said we spend too much, but that’s still not enough.”

The team had a long list of well-justified grievances. Most concerned the inadequate Davidson facility. The 31-year-old pool area had
little ventilation, and its filtering system was far from adequate. Rust had fallen into the pool and accumulated on the
floor, and water temperature was a constant problem. To worsen matters, there was no diving board.

At UNCC, water temperature was the problem as well. Regulations declare meet temperature from 79°F to 81°F, and UNCC generally
kept water temperature around 85°F. At meet time, the water often didn’t meet specifications, and several teams were threatening to
cause Davidson to forfeit if the temperature were too high. UNCC was losing money as well with the swim meets
at peak weekend times and classes begging for pool space.

Lack of a diving board caused problems as well. The diver had to travel each day to UNCC for practice.
This season the team was without a diver, and that meant an automatic forfeiture of sixteen points to opponents.

The team batted around the idea of all away meets, but that, too, was not economically feasible. An away meet
costs a team approximately $1200, and there was no money for that.

The senior class, which holds thirteen of nineteen school records, has felt the administration “nonsupportive” all along. Co-captain Rick Williams
regretted that “No matter how hard we work here we're being held back.”

The ubiquitous weight room problem surfaced among the swimmers as well. They weren’t allowed to use it. Schremmer explained, “They
didn’t really understand that it is an important part of training.”

The team didn’t get the necessary monies as well. The team would pay to print brochures but would have no
way to cover mailing costs. The program didn’t require a great deal of money. Five of the Early Decision acceptances
were swimmers gotten on the already-scant funds. Sophomore Bill Crone said, “We can get people here. We don’t need scholarships,
we need a new facility.”

This year’s team consisted of Coach Miller and Assistant Coach Mark Hammond, Co-captains Schremmer and Williams, seniors Craig Allen, Craig
Fingers, and Tony Smith; junior Johnny Edwards; sophomores Bill Crone and Roy Martin; and freshmen Bob Mosca, Martin Valbuena, and
Mike Washburn.

They were a team hounded by one inadequacy after another, and yet willing to keep pushing on through hardship until
the burden broke their spirit. Schremmer pointed out, “It’s not that we didn’t wanna do the work. We were training
twice a day for four hours up until we made the decision.”

Although the team was certainly hurt about the decision, they don’t think the Athletic administration was out to scuttle their
program alone. They see it as a department-wide epidemic.

The Davidson swimming program, once a source of pride for so many, for those same people has become a harbor
of regret.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 8 January 1982
