From the Locker Room Grandstand Coach/Football Coach Convention and the Faculty Line

By STEVE SOUD ’84

Being from the vast Northern wilderness some call Maryland, I never heard the all-too-often true maxim, “Hindsight is 20/20,” until I came to North Carolina. Those of us who look back upon the football team’s 2-3 record have some idea now of what we as coaches would have done in certain situations that Ed Farrell didn’t do. In some cases, our 20/20 vision (and his, for that matter) is clear. In other cases, we don’t see things as clearly as we might think.

On Monday convened what I think to be the first-ever Davidson grandstand coach/Davidson football coach conference on Hindsight coaching. (I by no means present the opinions of the grandstand coach as mine, nor are any of the football coach’s specifically Ed Farrell’s. The questions and comments of the grandstand coach are what I feel the fans are asking; the football coach’s replies are what Coach Farrell has replied to similar queries. Do not construe this as an actual conversation.)

Grandstand Coach: Coach, we think your team should be 3-2 right now. Certainly, no one expected Madison to play as well as they have, and in retrospect, we think Wofford is a more talented ball club (especially after they pasted Elon Saturday), although we all agree the score should never have been 54-zip. That, of course, leaves the Newberry loss. Four times we had the ball well within scoring range and when 4th down came up you chose to go for the first down instead of the field goal. Why not try the field goal?

Football Coach: I weighed the alternatives and decided it was better that I not let the freshman kick. He’s never played football before and that was a real pressure situation. It’s not like we’ve got Wayne Paymer out there anymore. The following week against James Madison he missed a field goal. Who’s to say he would have hit or missed it against Newberry? Maybe he would have made it and we might have won 10-8. Then again, we might have executed well on one of the fourth down plays.

GC: About that Madison game, why’d you leave the defense in on a 4th and 9 punt? They wound up scoring off that. Even if they thought they might try a trick play, they probably wouldn’t think to try it with nine yards to gain. It wound up costing us a 7-6 lead.

FC: Looking back, I probably should have left the defense in a normal defense. But our punting team probably could not have stopped a trick play—very few of them play on defense. Our defense practices as our second punting team anyway. Normally in that situation Keith Ellis, a junior, is back there to receive, but he was hurt. Derek Whitten just made a freshman mistake. We have a hard and fast rule to not play a ball past the ten. Under the pressure, he made a freshman mistake which he’ll never make again in his Davidson career. Lest you criticize him too much, though, remember he broke two possible touchdown passes later in the game. Again, looking back, I probably should have left a straight defensive formation in.

GC: Saturday for the first time we broke some long plays—Poag’s 74-yard run and Walker’s 66-yard run. What are you doing differently now that you weren’t against Madison or Newberry?

FC: Nothing. We’re just getting better. We’re a relatively young team yet. Mike Longmire is just learning how to play fullback, really. One of our guards (a key position in the Wing-T offense), Keith Rollins, is just a sophomore. They’re getting the hang of it. The play Poag ran for the touchdown is the same play that Keith Martin had the pass batted down on in the Newberry game. The difference is execution.

GC: Why haven’t we been able to execute before?

Here’s what the professors predict:
- Jo Archie (Secretary to Dean of Students)—St. Louis in 5
- Frank Bliss (English)—St. Louis in 7
- Robert DeSieno (Chemistry, CSC)—St. Louis in 7
- John Engell (English)—Milwaukee in 6
- George Greer (Baseball)—St. Louis in 6
- Tom Kazee (Political Science)—St. Louis in 6
- Ben Klein (Mathematics)—Milwaukee in 6
- Peter Krentz (History)—St. Louis in 4
- Cindy Lewis (English)—St. Louis in 6
- Bob Manning (Physics)—Milwaukee in 6Mike Moore (Wildcat Club)—St. Louis in 5

The We FC: We just don’t have a lot of confidence in what we’re doing. We play afraid to make mistakes. That causes you to be tentative. In a rebuilding situation, the most difficult thing is a mental thing. We need to instill the confidence of success.

GC: Coach, you’ve had some years to do that. Another thing we question is the Wing-T offense. Isn’t it outmoded?

FC: Not really, a number of schools in the Northeast run it. Delaware, Lehigh, Bucknell, and Maine all run it. Notre Dame ran it up until just a few years ago. We use it because it suits our personnel. We’re never gonna have enough athletes up and down to run the I-formation. It’s an intricate offense, but we have the mental capability to run it. It’s a solid offense. We can run four different plays, and yet the backfield mechanics will all look the same to the defense. We simply need to execute better. We haven’t been executing well enough consistently enough.

GC: We’re 2-3 when we should be 3-2 or better. What are you going to have to do to beat teams like South Carolina State, which are national powers? How can you get the team to execute the way it did against Guilford?

FC: Again, it’s all a matter of confidence. I’m not sure that even if we do execute as well against South Carolina State as we did against Guilford we wouldn’t get beaten still. We have to hope to play our best so far and to catch them on an off day. We have to expect to go 5-0 from here and finish 7-3. And right now we’ve got that kind of attitude.

So ends the first-ever meeting of the twain. It seems to me that to apply that to Davidson football, we in the stands must see the rationale behind some of Coach Farrell’s moves, and he must look back and apply any lessons learned to the future.

SERIES

Series prospects

While Braves fans worldwide are lamenting the loss of their ignominious Indians, Major League Baseball goes on. More specifically, we go to the World Series.

Tuesday afternoon, before the start of the Series, I endeavored to comb the halls of Chambers in search of the faculty scoop on which team was going to win the October Classic and just how many games the venerable professors think it will take. As one would expect, I came upon some interesting answers. I stumbled up a few blind alleys. Dr. Brockway asked, “Is there a World Series? I’d have a 50 percent chance of being right.” Dr. Lewis-Standfield wasn’t quite sure just which teams were in the Series. When I told her St. Louis was playing Milwaukee, she replied, “St. Louis is a little closer to where my brother lives, so I'll take St. Louis.”

“In how many games?” I asked.

“What are my choices?” ... Jimmy the Greek never used a better system.

Dr. Kazee took a more logical tack. After pondering the question for a few moments, he said something that sounded like, “Banjo hitters beat power hitters when there’s good pitching,” and proceeded to make his choice. Dr. Krentz, standing nearby, made sure I knew the only reason he chose St. Louis in four was because he’s from St. Louis.

Down in the confines of the Athletic Department, I came upon two lost souls whose teams are eliminated, some sooner than others. Charlie Slagle couldn’t say “The Braves in four” as he would have liked, but he went so far as to choose Ted Simmons as MVP. Equipment Manager John Byrd said, “Minnesota in nine.” I’m still not sure whether he meant nine years, nine decades, or what...

Finally, College President Sam Spencer took a “real shot in the dark,” but if I’m right almost everyone else was shooting at things that go bump in the night. I say Milwaukee will win it at the wire again, seven games.

Cora Nelson (Economics)—“favors” St. Louis
Lou Ortmayer (Political Science)—Milwaukee in 7
Ernie Patterson (Economics)—St. Louis in 5
David Shi (History)—St. Louis in 6
Charlie Slagle (Soccer)—Milwaukee in 5
Sam Spencer (College President)—Milwaukee in 5
Will Terry (Dean of Students)—St. Louis in 7
Jason Thompson (Economics)—Milwaukee in 7

Soud is Sports Editor of The Davidsonian. 

THE DAVIDSONIAN/15 OCTOBER 1981