cent at private college.

The average public college tuition this year will be $979, compared to $815 in 1981-82. Private college tuition has hit
$4021 this year, up from last year’s $3552.

Two-year colleges registered similar increases. Public two-year colleges are charging an average of $600 in tuition, up 18 percent from
a year ago. Private two-year colleges averaged 11 percent increases in tuition, up to $2486 this year.

The College Board also found that room and board charges will be up eight percent over last year’s averages, while
other costs—transportation, supplies, personal expenses—will rise by seven percent.

Dean of Pottery Throws Demonstration

MacKinlay Zimmermann, a noted potter from Knoxville, Tenn., will be at Davidson College until 27 September exhibiting his wares, giving
demonstrations, and instructing would-be potters in the art of creating with clay.

Zimmermann has been a full-time potter since 1972. He has received numerous awards, and he has participated in many exhibits,
including a number of one-man shows. Currently, he serves on the Commission for the Office of the Commissioner General of
the World’s Fair, and he was recently featured in Studio Potter magazine.

Interested persons will be able to try their talent at pottery-making Monday, 27 September at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.
At 7:30 p.m. Monday, Zimmermann will present a slide show and discuss “The Business of Art.”

The event is being sponsored by the Davidson College Union and all activities will take place there. Persons interested in
signing up for hands-on experience or wishing other information should contact Ann Parker or Eileen Benner at the Union office,
892-2000, ext. 140, weekday afternoons.

Gilmore to Direct WDAV’s Community Relations

Marilyn F. Gilmore of Matthews has been named as community relations director for WDAV, Davidson College’s classical music and cultural
arts radio station (89.9 FM).

Gilmore has extensive experience in fund raising and public relations, most recently as development director for Boys Town of North
Carolina. For seven years prior to moving to Matthews, she successfully sought funding for institutional programs at Bard College in
Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., and was recognized for her work in administering those funds.

Her duties at Davidson will include promotion of WDAV’s fine arts programming, production of the station’s monthly program guide and
fund raising.

Stigall to Open DC Vespers

Organist Robert Stigall will open the Davidson College Vesper Concert series with a recital Sunday, 26 September at 9 p.m.
in Davidson Presbyterian Church.

Stigall is director of music for Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, and college organist and lecturer in music at
Queens College. He currently serves as president of The Presbyterian Association of Musicians.

Selections for Sunday evening’s concert will include Toccata in A and Echo Fantasia in A, both by Jan Pieter Sweelinck;
Prelude and Fugue in E Major by Vincent Luebeck; Choral Prelude, “Komm, Heiliger Geist, Herre Gott,” by Dietrich Buxtehude; Chorale
in B minor by Cesar Franck; le Banquet Celeste by Olivier Messiaen; and Carillon de Westminster by Louis Vierne.

All vesper concerts, which are sponsored by the Davidson College Department of Music, are open to the public without admission
cost.

Food Town Overcomes Lowe’s

“We’ve tripled Lowe’s business,” says Charles Kyles, manager of the new Food Town. “Customers used Lowe’s as a quick-stop convenience
store. But we aim for the consumer who shops on a weekly basis.”

Food Town took over Lowe’s Davidson location on 15 August 1981 and held its grand opening on 3 August. The
transaction added one more link to the burgeoning Food Town chain. The Salisbury-based corporation has annexed sixty new stores so
far this year and will open twenty-one more before Christmas. Kyles says that Food Town is the “fastest-growing chain in
America.”

Food Town may also be the fastest-growing store in Davidson. Not only has the store outsold its predecessor, but it
has also attracted regular customers. Kyles says that many of the Patterson Court houses now have charge accounts with Food
Town. “Warner Hall was the first house to open up a charge account,” he said.

Food Town owes much of its success to efficient merchandising and low prices. Kyles says that his store sells 6800
items at discount rates. Since Food Town has its own distribution centers, it can offer “the lowest food prices in
North Carolina,” according to Kyles.

Food Town Prices

5 lbs. carrots $0.99
1 head lettuce $0.79
1/2 lb. Doritos $1.09
Six-pack Miller cans $2.19
Six-pack Miller Lite $2.29
Six-pack Budweiser cans $2.58
Six-pack Moosehead beer $3.57
Six-pack Lowenbrau $2.84

Warner Hall Opens Up

THE DAVIDSONIAN/September 24, 1982

Part-time employee wanted to put up posters on campus now and during 1982-83. 2-10 hours/month, $4.50/hour. Call Mr. Fenton, (800)
243-4767.
