Religion, Seriously

It’s hard to escape religion at Davidson. In fact, it’s impossible. Everybody has to take at least one religion course; it’s all part of the Davidson experience. Our Statement of Purpose states the following about Davidson’s relationship to religion: “Davidson recognizes God as the source of all truth. As a college committed to the historic Christian faith, it sees Jesus Christ as the central fact of history, giving purpose, order, and value to the whole life. Davidson is dedicated to the quest for truth and would set no limits to the adventures of the mind. Hence, it encourages teachers and students to explore the facts of the universe through the full and dedicated use of their intellectual powers. Faith and reason must work together in mutual respect if Davidson is to realize and maintain her vision of excellence in the field of Christian higher education.”

Six out of seven paragraphs in the Statement of Purpose mention the importance of spiritual growth. Usually, the Christian faith is explicitly pointed to as the means of “healthy growth.” Davidson maintains that “. . . a college must be a worshipping as well as a studying community, if it is to nurture the whole person and is to be genuinely Christian. Hence, religious services and activities, as well as courses in religion, form an integral part of its program.”

Obviously, religion is a major part of Davidson activity. The religious activity calendar from Charlie Summers’s office is almost as full as the Union calendar. Everything from Mass to world event discussion groups is listed. Between religion courses, informal group discussions, and general guidelines like the Statement of Purpose, religion comes up more at Davidson than at many schools.

Good & Bad: A Graphic View

This Week's Tally:

No Words Nope
Just lines showing Good and Bad

We're having fun

Conclusion: Braves down
DADA Day is 6 November maybe. Or was it already? (1) Surf’s up

Things could be Badder

Although not unique insofar as there are other schools that take religion as a major intellectual and spiritual guide, Davidson’s relation to the Christian church is rather remarkable.

Unlike many schools which take religion as seriously as to see “Jesus Christ as the central fact of history, giving purpose, order, and value to the whole life,” Davidson doesn’t legislate its morality or spirituality to the community; compared to, say, Bob Jones University, Davidson is a den of iniquity. All religious participation on (and off) campus is strictly voluntary. Every individual is free to choose as he or she believes in respect to spiritual activity.

This has not always been the case at Davidson. It wasn’t all that long ago that the College required chapel attendance of every student and a Christian tenure policy for incoming professors. As recent as 1977, the College was in an uproar over religious commitment for professors. Faculty tenure evaluations were changed in response to declining a job offer to a Jewish professor. A lot has changed in fifteen years at Davidson.

In this week’s paper, religion is somewhat of a focal point. Although not as controversial as in the past, religion is still important to Davidson. Every so often it is worthwhile to look at our policy and history in a serious way. Although it is hard not to chuckle at the PTL Club’s speed limit and plastic animals, there does seem to be some morsel of truth nestled in Heritage Village, U.S.A.

Davidson takes its relation to the church in a significant way. It is important to recognize the action behind the Statement of Purpose. We offer these articles in a serious vein.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone 704/892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $10 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage no. USPS 140-300-1.

Staff:
Lindsay Biddle
Christi Baggett
Bill Barnett
Mark Elmore
Duncan V. Fraser
Kara Gilmore
Jonathan Glance
Jennifer Gotto
Thurston Hatcher

Editor: Stewart Cauley
Executive Editor: Brian Butler
News Editor: David Resnik
Features Editor: Tom Pafford
Sports Editor: Steve Soud
Production Editor: Ann Meador
Photography Editor: Andy Scott
Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams
Calendar Editor: Ivy Goodman
Business Manager: Lentz Ivey
Advertising Managers: Jeff Danese, Frank Hague
Graphics: Scot Myers
Editor Emeritus: Elizabeth Kiss

THE DAVIDSONIAN/15 October 1982