This has been a big week for me. On Monday I exercised my first executive privilege as an official Davidsonian Staff Member. I made a real live prime-time long-distance telephone call to John McEuen in Springfield, Missouri. As you know, or perhaps don’t know depending on how successful you’ve been at finding spots, McEuen will be playing in our dear old 900 Room this Saturday night. With Beer. How much you know about John probably varies in direct proportion to how long you’ve been at Davidson. As a senior, I am prepared to tell you how many teeth show when he smiles and what kind of banjo strings he uses. This is not, however, to say that John McEuen has or will ever overstay his welcome here. McEuen is an adroit, often dazzling musician/vocalist/poet/storyteller, and will always be welcome here. We can expect to enjoy his expertise on the guitar, banjo, mandolin, fiddle, and anything that he may have taken up since he was here last winter, applied toward an eclectic mix of material. When I asked him if he had any preferences among those instruments, he admitted emotional ties with his beautiful Gibson banjo, which has become his trademark. And he said that playing the fiddle is always somewhat of a struggle. We’d never have known.

Davidson will be the next to the last stop of a three-week tour that John is making with guitarist David Sylvester and bassist Michael Coleman, both of whom are often heard in the company of one Doc Watson. John went on to say that he loves to come to Davidson because he always gets to eat some of that fine food in the Union Cafe. He wanted to know how C. Shaw Smith is, and if we had gotten Ms. Pac-Man in the game room as of yet. “It’s harder,” he explained.

After a short discussion on the aesthetics and role of folk music, which I shall leave out in deference to David Lyon’s Folk Corner, I asked John about his tour of the U.S.S.R. with the Dirt Band (formerly the Nitty Gritty D.B.) a few years back. He grew thoughtful and serious, as they say. Rather than deliver a speech, he told me a story. The Dirt Band was attending a do of the Russian songwriters’ union, and John was talking with one of the premiers from Melodyia, the Soviet record company. “There’s just one record company in the U.S.S.R., like there’s just one of everything else.” The man told John that if a Soviet musician has come up through the conservatories and is doing well, he will be taught to write “in the proper way.” Then, maybe he’ll get to record, sooner or later. John asked him what happens if some guy walks in off the street or out of the woods and can play and sing and just happens to be a good performer. The answer was much the same. This person would go to the conservatory and learn to write and play in the proper way. “No. You don’t understand. What if a guy can already write. Say he can sing, maybe play some nice melodies on the guitar. He has some songs of his own. Maybe they are protest songs, trying to get across a message.” The hook was now baited. The answer came, “We don’t have protest singers here. There’s nothing to protest.” This gentleman obviously does not know that Tass is not the world’s only news agency. There's more, but you get the idea. Of the future of the U.S., McEuen says “Well, I’ll be here no matter what.”

John McEuen has been a friend to Davidson and to good music. We hope that he will remain both for a long time to come. The shows will be this Saturday, at 10:00 and 11:30. Although he told me he’d rather play at nine. Come to the Nasty Rathole Valentine’s party after that, or even earlier, but not before ten unless you’re bringing food or other gastronomic entertainment.

By John Hartman ‘82

SERVING DAVIDSON STUDENTS FOR THE PAST FIVE YEARS — FREE DELIVERY

A camp accredited by the ACA specializing in water sports with added emphasis on land sports is looking for male and female counselors of boys and girls between the ages of 7 and 16. These counselors must have the ability to teach in one or more of the following activities:

MEMO BOARDS
PLANTS
POSTERS
MUGS
GIFTS

YOU’RE ALWAYS WELCOME AT THE WALLACE STORE

No South Main St. — Davidson — 892-4410

For more information write: Camp Thunderbird, Rt. 7, Box 50, Clover, S.C. 29710

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982 3