**Features A Separate Peace, Out at Sea: 2 Student Directed Workshop Productions**

The student-directed one-act plays presented last week were *A Separate Peace*—script by Tom Stoppard and directed by John Verdi—and *Out
at Sea*—script by Slawomir Mrozek and directed by David Barber.

The first drama performed was *A Separate Peace*. The plot revolves around Mr. Brown (played by Matthew Merrell), who arrives
in a town in provincial England and, under the pretense of it being an emergency, calls the hospital and obtains
a room for the night. When he arrives, the staff discovers that Mr. Brown is not sick, but it is
late at night and the staff cannot find a way to justly deny him the available room. Mr. Brown ends
up staying for an extended time; he doesn’t make excessive demands on the staff and he has enough money to
pay, but the other characters are continuously puzzled by Mr. Brown’s desire to spend his time in a hospital. We
find out about Mr. Brown through the efforts of the doctor (Robert Moore), nurse (Sarah Dysart), and matron (Laura Singleton)—who
use various methods to gain information on him—and from what he divulges to his usual nurse, Maggie Coats (Ant Goode).

The acting was directed to be realistic, and the set was also realistic with the arena stage divided into two
areas—the hospital office and Mr. Brown’s room. During the course of the play, there are quick changes between the areas
as we see the staff trying to investigate Mr. Brown, and he trying to have a peaceful hospital stay. There
would seem to be a pivotal tension that Stoppard wanted to create—on one hand is Mr. Brown who is looking
for an ideal humanly separate peace, but on the other hand, he must spend his time somewhere, and the conventions
of the hospital must integrate and make a manila file of him. Unfortunately, the play as presented did not seem
to fully develop that tension. I wondered how intently the hospital staff was searching and to what extent they were
trying to oppose Mr. Brown’s wish for separateness. The climax, when the hospital staff identifies Mr. Brown and notifies his
relatives, seems to lack real intensity. When he leaves the hospital, it is not as striking a resolution of the
conflict between his wishes and the hospital office as it could be.

One aspect which came over well was the relationship—or fearful attempt at understanding—between Mr. Brown and Maggie Coates, the one
trying to separate himself and the other dependent on knowing that she was part of something larger. Though there were
difficulties, the play was worthwhile and it was good to bring Tom Stoppard’s drama to Davidson.

The second half of the evening was a play of very different conventions. *Out at Sea* flirts with the absurd
and involves three tuxedoed, affected, persnickety men—Mr. Fat, Mr. Medium, and Mr. Thin—floating at sea on a boat. The plot
is fairly simple. They run out of food and decide that they must eat one of themselves. It follows that
Mr. Thin is the overwhelming—2 to 1—choice to offer his carcass, but he doesn’t feel that generous. To be fair,
they conduct an election, complete with campaign speeches, arguments against killing orphans (Misters Fat and Medium claim to be), and
Mr. Thin receives a telegram from the postman informing him that his mother has died, and finally a plea to
Mr. Thin’s higher ideals of generosity. Mr. Thin decides to nobly relent, and the play ends when Mr. Fat tells
Mr. Medium to hide a can of beans he had found because, can’t you see—he’s happy the way he is
and lights out.

The story is not common to our everyday life, and the set was also abstracted, but functional. There were basically
three...places to sit and one sea chest arranged diagonally on the floor. The limitation of dramatic space was not hard
and fast. The general non-realism of the whole play meant that the audience did not have to look for portentous
turns of normal events and did not expect certain interactions. Still, there was a challenge to set up a coherent
environment for the drama, and Mr. Fat (Bill Kremer), Mr. Medium (Philip Alter), and Mr. Thin (Doug Vass) did a
very fine job. They portrayed their characters very distinctly, and I think that with the direction of David Barber, they
did a good job of communicating the plight of Mr. Thin and his gradual willingness to seize the fate offered
to him, and to ennoble it with his personal belief in the fittingness of allowing himself to be eaten. For
one evening of drama, I and the others in the audience were offered a variety of ideas and presentations, and
also the occasion to exercise our own imaginations and vicarious feelings.

Tom Pafford

Mind Games. On any given weekday, you can watch Davidson’s most highly regarded team practice their sport. No, it’s not
football, not basketball, not field hockey. It’s our College Bowl team, and they conduct daily two-hour sessions simulating the game
conditions of the Varsity Sport of the Mind every afternoon over in the Union’s Conference Room. And the team presses
on enthusiastically despite the absence of the crowds and attention attracted by Davidson’s more rough-and-tumble pursuits. In this their “rebuilding”
year, the College Bowl team has thus far compiled a 20-4 record in inter-collegiate competition (including practice matches) and have
already qualified for the National Tournament (and a first-round bye) as one of 8 winners of Radio Tournaments. The latter
of these accomplishments is especially gratifying for the five team members (Brad Mullis ’83, Marvin Overby ’83, Gordon Turnbull ’83,
John Eglin ’84, and alternate Tim Woples ’85), for in Beso for the Nationals as determined and BVI nl Bona’
/ ‘Friday Juniors. They have already accomplished something which last year’s National runner-up team wasn’t able to do at a
similar point in their career. Indeed, Sponsor and Head Coach Hansford Epes feels that this year’s team has an excellent
chance of making the final eight teams or even winning outright. Dr. Epes, and associates Dr. Robert Maiainig and Mr.
Charles Lloyd, chose the varsity team for quickness and general aptitude for the game rather than because of a strength
in any particular field of study. Most of all, Dr. Epes said, the team members must be able to work
together without conflict. Both John Eglin and Marvin Overby have noted the closeness of feeling among the team members. “Our
closeness sets us apart from other teams,” Eglin said. “It’s a real advantage for us.” This mutual support held the
team in good stead this weekend as they experienced a disappointing loss to Rice in Gainesville, Florida, 250-215. While not
seeking to make excuses, Dr. Epes attributed the low-par performance in part to “intangibles” — among them a slower tempo
in the reading of questions by the game’s moderator. The team is looking beyond this loss to ACUI Regionals on
February 12-13 and then to the Nationals themselves, whose site and format are yet to be determined. Through all this,
however, our College Bowlers keep the primary purpose of their sport firmly in mind: having a good time. Since they
are all underclassmen, they feel less pressure to win it all this year and maintain a great enthusiasm for the
game. “If we’re no longer having fun, we’ll quit,” Dr. Epes said. There seems to be little danger of that,
and Davidson's ways in the sport which best displays our stature scholastically seem assured for several years yet.

Jeff Hamilton '82
