Plate 61. (De Brahm) A Map of the Indian Nations.

1766 MS.

Facing page: Plate 55. Henry Popple. A Map of the British Empire in America. 1733. Both from Cumming’s The Southeast
in Early Maps.

The Duke did indeed have a copy of the Fry-Jefferson Map, and the folio in which it was found contained
more than fifty maps, most of them drawn during the Revolutionary War by some of the best draughtsmen and surveyors
then in the colonies. Many were drawn within hours of key battles and detailed both terrain and troop movements. One
of the most amazing was a small colored map of the Boston area dated “19th April 1775” which showed the
troop movements of that day when the embattled farmers “fired the shot heard ’round the world.”

This anecdote captures the essence of Professor Cumming’s fascination with maps. He believes that old maps are one of the
most important resources available to the historian, a resource too little exploited. Early maps, although often beautiful and fascinating in
and of themselves, can also shed a great light on the problems of why people went where they went and
did what they did. As a simple example, many early maps show that Englishmen believed the North American continent was
a narrow isthmus separating the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. One important reason for the founding of the colony at Roanoke
in 1584, the “Lost Colony,” was the hope that a passage to the Pacific would soon be discovered, thus opening
up a trade route to the Far East.

Professor Cumming’s research requires a highly specialized knowledge of cartographical conventions, surveying and navigational techniques, and a knack for knowing
where to look. It also requires a historical understanding that is both broad and deep. However, another essential element is
the irrepressible enthusiasm and energy which both Professor and Mrs. Cumming show for their work. Professor Cumming’s retirement has given
him much more time to pursue his avocation, and he has been indefatigable in his efforts.

Today Dr. Cumming’s preeminence as a cartographical historian is widely recognized. This has brought many rewards and some unexpected surprises.
He has been called as an expert witness in several court cases because of his expertise, one of them a
case before the Supreme Court. “We never expected to get into forensic cartography!” exclaims Mrs. Cumming.

As it turns out, Dr. Cumming’s research will be quite a boon to Davidson College. He is in the process
of presenting his extremely valuable “scholar’s cartographical library, consisting of all my maps, catalogues, letters, and manuscripts collected over the
years” to the E.H. Little Library. This collection will make Davidson an important center of primary material for cartographical research,
and both Dr. Spencer and Dr. Parks see great benefits coming to the College as a result of Dr. Cumming’s
generosity. One of the most valuable maps in his collection, the Collett Map of North Carolina, is on display now
in the library just to the left of the reference desk. Also presented this year was a copy of the
Fry-Jefferson Map mentioned earlier in this article.

Dr. Cumming is also a past president of the North Carolina Historical Society and the South Atlantic Modern Language Association.
He was recently the recipient of an honorary Doctor of Letters from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. Besides
The Southeast in Early Maps (Princeton University Press, 1958), his other major works, all published since his retirement, include The
Discovery of North America, with R.A. Shelton and D.B. Quinn, 1972, British Maps of Colonial America (Nebenzahl Lecture) 1974, Exploration
of North America, 1630-1776, with Hilbert, Quinn, and Williams, 1974, and Fate of a Nation, with H. Rankin, 1976. He
is currently doing research for the quadracentennial of the Lost Colony of Roanoke.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 29 October 1982
