Diane Odum? The United States Tax System represents one of the most unchallenged violations of individual rights and liberty in
our country today. Though recently, there has been much concern over increased government intervention and burdening tax laws, the battle
to eliminate this violation has yet to be fought in its most fundamental and decisive area: the realm of philosophy.
The tax system of the United States, as it has evolved, rests upon the “welfare principle,” the idea that the
sacrifice of individual liberty is justified when others benefit. Applied to the tax system, this principle allows the government to
force an individual to sacrifice his personal wealth if it will result in the benefit of other individuals. This principle
is most clearly exemplified in regard to taxation for “social goods,” i.e., goods and services which purport to benefit society,
such as Medicare, foreign aid, welfare, low-income housing, unemployment compensation, public education, and the like. In these cases, the government
takes money from the individual who can legally afford to pay (regardless of whether he advocates these programs) and redistributes
his income as a “service to mankind.”

The key factor in the redistribution of income is the use of FORCE: the government's threat of fines, imprisonment, or
the expropriation of property if the individual refuses to comply with the government's request of mandatory “gifts.” The government, acting
in this manner, differs not from the robber-thug who uses force—the point of a gun—to steal from unwilling victims in
order that he may pursue his material values. The government, likewise, uses force to steal from unwilling citizens in order
that it may institute its moral values (welfare, Medicare, etc.). In truth, the thug is more open and honest in
his robbery; the government disguises its “guns” by saying that its actions are “for the good of society” and then
takes advantage of its legal monopoly of force to indirectly steal from its citizens.

During a discussion of the legitimacy of the tax system, the ethically-based question always arises: “Without taxes, how will society
support the poor and the needy?” This question assumes the altruist-collectivist premise that all men are “their brothers’ keepers.” In
order to get beyond this premise, one must raise a more fundamental question, specifically, not “how will society support the
poor?” but “Is it the duty of society as a whole to care for the needy?” “Society,” in this context,
is seen as some concrete entity—an entity with special rights and moral privileges of its own. In reality, “society” is
nothing more than a collection of individuals, each individual possessing individual rights. By speculating on what “society” should do for
the poor, one is assuming that society is an inseparable unit with certain rights and moral obligations that surpass those
of the individual. Any group, society included, can have no rights other than the rights of its individual members. A
man can neither acquire new rights by joining a group nor lose the rights he already possesses.

Because an individual has no right to sacrifice others for his own needs, he also has no right to be
sacrificed for the needs of others. The necessity of rights is not arbitrary. “Rights” are a moral concept that are
essential if man chooses to live with others in an organized society. A lone man on a deserted island would
have no need for rights; the issue wouldn’t come up. Likewise, a group of barbarians that chose to live as
a savage mob instead of in an organized social system would have no necessity for rights; in this situation, might
would make right. Just as the necessity of rights is not arbitrary, neither is the determination of individual rights arbitrary.
Given that man has decided to live in an organized society...An organized society must define its rights in conjunction with
its nature—with its inherent nature as man qua man. Because man is a living, rational being, his first and fundamental
right is the right to his own life. Logically succeeding man’s right to life is man’s right to sustain and
promote his own life—an act which requires: first, free thought and second, action upon these thoughts. Sustaining one’s life necessarily
requires material goods; no man can live without food and shelter. Thus, man must have property rights—the right to gain,
keep, use, and dispose of material values, in the act of sustaining and promoting his own life.

The United States government, in legislating tax laws, acts on the assumption that the use of force to collect private
wealth from individuals is justified in the pursuit of some “social goal.” This blatantly represents the sacrifice of the individual
for the “good of society.” The question arises: “What if the individual does not wish to donate his wealth to
these ‘socially-enhancing’ programs?” The collective minds of the “welfare” supporters eagerly chant the “vote with your feet” argument: “We, the
majority, voted for it; if you don’t like it, move to Canada.” The absurdity in this argument is remarkable. The
arguer is switching the concept of “rights” from the individual to the collective; in essence, he replaces the “Rights of
Man” with the “Rights of Mob.” In a free society, actions affecting the rights of individuals are outside government jurisdiction.
A majority may vote where to place a courthouse or who should represent it; a majority may not vote to
violate individual rights, i.e., to take another man’s property. “Individual rights are not subject to public vote; a majority has
no right to vote away the rights of a minority; the political function of rights is precisely to protect minorities
from oppression by majorities (and the smallest minority on earth is the individual).” (Ayn Rand, The Virtue of Selfishness, New
York, 1964, p. 102.)

It cannot be denied that, out of context, these “social goods” sound very desirable. Who wouldn’t consider it desirable to
see all the poor with food on their tables or all the elderly with sufficient medical care? No one, when
these questions are considered out of context. Put into their appropriate contexts, however, certain crucial questions arise in terms of
these “social” proposals: who will be labeled “needy”?—determined by whom?—supported at whose expense? These are the moral questions that the
advocates of the “for-the-good-of-society” programs fail to recognize. To them, only the desire remains in sight; they fail to recognize
whose individual rights they are violating in instituting these programs.

The question remains: “If it is not society’s duty to support the poor and the handicapped, what will be done
for the needy?” A free society does not outlaw private charity. If an individual wishes to aid the poor, let
him do it directly, based on his own values and morals, without the government as an intermediary. The individual is
the primary source of society; without individuals, there would be no society. Yet ironically, through mandatory taxation for “the benefit-of-society”
programs, the United States government is squelching the individual and his rights in the name of this very non-entity. This
nation was founded precisely for the purpose of protecting individual rights from governmental violation; today, however, this same representative government
is crushing individual rights in the name of morality. No amount of government tax cuts will provide justice for the
individual, and thus for society, until individual rights are recognized philosophically and politically.

By Diane Odum ‘82
DAVIDSONIAN
22 January 1982
