F and M’s Celebrated Cooks

Most Davidson upperclassmen list their Patterson Court Houses among the most rewarding facets of college life. This year, F & M has determined to express their appreciation in a special way—by establishing a retirement fund for their celebrated cooks, Fannie Brandon and Mabel Torrence.

Fannie and Mabel are longtime Davidson folks, and many students have enjoyed getting to know these charming ladies as they turn out some of the finest meals on the Court. Fannie and Mabel have been providing meals for Davidson students for more than thirty years, marking these two cooks among the most dedicated on campus, said F & M Secretary Lisa Buckley. In the years before the Patterson Court Houses, Fannie and Mabel cooked for the Kappa Sigma brothers at their house on Thompson Street. They followed Kappa Sig to Patterson Court in 1961. The fraternity folded in 1971 with the advent of self-selection and the house became F & M.

Fannie and Mabel have enjoyed Davidson and generously share their impressions on how the community and the campus have changed over the years. “We just love the kids,” Fannie explained. Mabel will tell you of the growth of the town. Both smile quickly when reminiscing on changes in the student body. “It’s the girls. That's the big change,” Fannie says. “And it’s good to see more blacks,” Mabel adds.

The fondness and respect students have had for Fannie and Mabel shows itself in many ways; each fall they have visits from Kappa Sigma and F & M alumni. Students working at F & M are particularly close to Fannie and Mabel, and their affection for the cooks spreads through the house. The efforts for a retirement fund for Fannie Brandon and Mabel Torrence began two years ago. Lawrence Kimbrough, Kappa Sigma Treasurer 1961-62, and Tim Wilkins and Bryan Kelleher, Treasurers 1978-79 and 1980-81, have worked with F & M’s present officers in contacting more than two hundred alumni of the house asking for donations. These efforts have raised about $1,200 so far, which is being held by the college until a specific investment format has been determined.

Davidson College does not provide any retirement benefits for Court employees. Consequently, some of the campus’ most important workers may have to count on Social Security benefits alone after they retire. The students of F & M express their appreciation for Fannie and Mabel’s years of thoughtfulness and devotion by making their futures a little brighter.

Jeb Benedict ‘84

Last year there was a vast increase in the amount of damage done to campus property. Many major repairs were required to fix the dormitories as well as the other campus buildings, due to vandalism by Davidson students. In the Dean’s Outbasket, published in September of this year, Dean of Students Will Terry asserted his uncompromising position towards vandals at Davidson. Dean Terry warned, “Any student found guilty ofMaliciously damaging college property or doing so under the influence of alcohol or any other drug will be fined $50 plus damages the first time it occurs. A student caught vandalizing a second time would definitely be suspended from school. Unlike last year, vandalism this year has not been much of a problem. There have been no major acts of vandalism to date—until last weekend.

On Saturday, January 9, the 900 Room featured Moonpie, a rowdy band and an apparent crowd-pleaser. Sometime during or after the performance, quite a bit of damage was done to the Union. In the 900 Room, two holes were gouged into two separate walls. One of these holes was rather large and required substantial repair. In addition, the men’s bathroom across from the 900 Room was ravaged; most notably, the sink was ripped off the wall. Vandals also did some minor damage to the stalls.

Apparently, the incidents in the 900 Room were related to alcohol abuse, an issue about which Dean Terry has expressed concern. He reiterated that drinking on campus is a privilege, not a right. So far, no one has claimed responsibility for the damages done in the 900 Room.

Director of Housing Bill Bolding has been satisfied with the conduct of the students in the residence halls this year. “I am extremely pleased with the students this year,” he said. Mr. Bolding reported that for the first time in a number of years, there has been no major damage done to the residence halls. Recently, however, some snowballs broke a number of windows. Bolding said that most of the students responsible had stepped forward to pay the $1.50 replacement cost of the windows.

Matt Merrell ’84

Organizing Communiqué

They haven't got the talent or experience to write for other publications. Co-editor John Marks, who wrote for the Davidsonian earlier this year, feels their magazine will serve a special purpose on campus. “The Davidsonian does not cater to freshmen and is not supposed to. We’re putting out a paper that has greater appeal to people who don’t know what’s going on in this school.”

Over a dozen freshmen have shown interest in the magazine. Some current staff members are Ross Holt, literary editor; Jack Cobb, humor editor; Lee McCree, reviews editor; and Anne Alpha, features editor. Anne is also a former member of the Davidsonian staff.

The Davidsonian offered to let Marks use Davidsonian equipment and possibly put together his magazine as a monthly supplement to the newspaper, but he declined. He is currently looking for funds. The Activities Tax Fund of the College Union provides money for student publications, but Marks is not sure if he'll rely on it. He has considered selling ads in The Communiqué and selling the magazine itself as a possible source of revenue.

Marks started thinking about the publication last November. In December, he saw Dean of Students Will Terry, who referred him to the SGA. Marks and Wiebusch met with the SGA last December and again on January 12, 1982. They described their magazine and presented very tentative budget figures. At the conclusion of the last meeting, the SGA Executive Council referred the matter to the Activities Tax Council.

David Resnik ’85

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 22 January 1982