On Buckley’s Speech | Avarice with a human face and a Brooks Brothers suit by John Siman

Bill Buckley is right. The economic well-being of the entire nation is tied to the success of its businesses. The flourishing of Corporate America in the 20th century made possible the historically unprecedented rise in the standard of living of all classes. Governmental policies that burden entrepreneurs reduce everyone’s chances of pulling an Horatio Alger. And to persecute these entrepreneurs, the productive rich, is both immoral and masochistic. His thesis, says Buckley, is that taxing the rich heavily and imposing complex regulations reduces national productivity. We Americans are biting the hand that feeds us. What we need, Buckley argues, is a libertarian government, which would be superior to the status quo on both moral grounds (since it would not behave as a bureaucratic Procrustes, cutting the rich down to size) and on utilitarian grounds (since the fruits of an unharnessed business community would be a boon to everyone).

The trouble with Bill Buckley’s libertarianism is that he doesn’t believe it. Not deep down. What Bill Buckley believes in au fond are the natural privileges of wealth. In his speech Wednesday night he described the rich as being not merely pestered by the government but “afflicted” and “harassed.” He described the “healthiest tax reform” as “relief to those at the highest bracket.” Sure, Buckley has a “Benthamite” defense of such relief, but his loving support of the rich (“philoplutusianism” in Buckleyite parlance) is so deep that it is not contingent upon the likelihood of an aristocratic society’s producing the greatest good for the greatest number.

Unfortunately, given that Americans are trained from elementary school to respect, or at least pay lip service to, egalitarian ideals (“We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal,” and that bit), one cannot openly espouse the virtues of plutocracy to an American audience. Aristocratic government may be a good idea, but one must be subtle in its advocacy if he is to get a good hearing. Like a high school brain who must conceal his academic superiority to preserve his popularity, Bill Buckley must camouflage his Tory outlook. But does Bill Buckley feel bitter about this? No sir! He responds with wit and noblesse oblige. In return for the lower classes’ quietly deferring to the aristocracy, as is their natural obligation anyway, Bill Buckley graciously presents them with a coherent and elegant libertarian political philosophy. And defends it eloquently to boot.

Eloquently indeed. Bill Buckley was articulate enough Wednesday night to appeal not only to the few pedants in the audience who actually give a damn about political philosophy but also to the madras-clad shopkeepers who flocked into Love Auditorium from Charlotte and their younger counterparts who flocked in from Patterson Court. These keepers-of-the-loud-plaid applauded all of Buckley’s most incisive observations and even gave him a standing ovation. Of course, this group, having never surpassed functional literacy since their readings do not extend beyond a daily check of the financial pages to check the price quotes on their shares in The American Dream, could not fully appreciate Buckley’s subtle cleverness of celebrating philoplutusianism in the guise of philolibertasianism. So Buckley kept them entertained with a few assurances that greed is okay and a stream of Republican National Committee-certified jokes that blasted, in succession, the New York Times, New York City, Democratic machine politics, the progressive income tax, Walter Mondale, Communist China, television news, and Norman Thomas. Bill Buckley’s rhetorical prowess is so great,However, one is convinced that given a chance to speak repeatedly to the same audience, he would not need the fluff and could convince every conservative of the esthetic of adapting a libertarian façade. Buckley's speech should not only have challenged unreconstructed conservatives but liberals as well. For even if one felt intuitively uncomfortable with Buckley's ideology, his arguments were difficult to refute. Consider the main points he made Wednesday night:

1. It is ironic to regard Reagan’s welfare cuts as reactionary. If a prototypical but prescient American living in 1970 were to divine the level of 1980 welfare payments, he would consider the expense exorbitant. Yet when the prototypical 1980s American discovers that welfare payments are being rolled back towards 1970s levels (and not even that low), he considers the cutbacks mean-hearted. Buckley is right to debunk the supposition that any reduction of status quo levels of welfare payments is necessarily cruel. Whether we should cut, however, is a very different question.

2. Any government intervention into the economy is counter-productive. Government assistance to individuals in effect pays people not to work, and assistance to ailing corporations pays for the production of things people don’t want to buy. The consistency of Bill Buckley’s libertarianism — he wants to wean the Chryslers as well as the welfare mommas from the federal mammary gland — is impressive. The question is whether true laissez-faire could actually work in the 20th century.

3. Someone who earns his wealth deserves to keep it. This seems to be what justice dictates. But Buckley gave himself away defending this point when he compared the plight of the wealthy to that of the Camusian hero Sisyphus. Does anyone really believe that the wealthy are taxed down through the brackets to the floors of Hades, only to drag themselves up with infinite stamina and produce yet another economic miracle?

4. Friedmanesque, “Free to Choose”-type economics is the way to go. The less the government bothers the entrepreneurs, the more the economy thrives. This is a good idea if you’re rich. But what happens to the poor when the government stops redistributing wealth via progressive taxation and welfare policies? Is charity a responsibility of a government that claims to be concerned with the rights and freedoms of all its citizens?

To critique Buckley’s libertarianism, one must draw the distinction between goodness of intention and rightness of action. One can advocate wrong actions out of good intent and right actions out of bad intent. At his best, Buckley does the latter. Buckley’s opposition to the “creeping alliance of big government and big business,” for example, would make for good public policy. So might his advocacy of Friedman’s proposal to reduce the top tax rate to 25%. But when one agrees with Bill Buckley’s libertarian conclusions, one must still question his plutocratic premises. A man as intelligent as Buckley is a good source of specific ideas. But a man so infatuated with opulence is a poor source of a guiding philosophy.

Buckley concluded his speech with some stirring plaudits to freedom. It is better, he observed, to see Moussorgsky performed in the city of big shoulders than to sit through a performance of a Red Chinese ballet in Peking or to be a dissenter in Soviet Russia. You bet it is. We Americans must “unite to affirm,” he said, “that man was born to be free and to the end that he should remain so we dedicate ourselves.” [Thundering applause.] So much for libertarian rhetoric. Now back to the important task of aiding the rich.

John Siman is a senior philosophy major from Charlotte.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 April 1982