**Features John Brockway's Memory Research**

Dr. John P. Brockway is a scholar of human memory. Despite the fact that he studied at Penn State under Charles N. Cofer, one of the most widely respected memory researchers in the world, as well as the fact that he published, while in graduate school, one of the few papers in the field to receive more citations in the eighth year after it was published than in its first year, he is far from a traditionalist. Rather, his ideas challenge the consensus of more than 2000 years of speculation and scholarship, and today threaten the very foundations of the psychology of memory (which, in the estimation of some, has run a very fast race around a short circular track).

Nor are the means by which he elucidates this theory limited to any one discipline. He draws upon philosophical arguments, innovations in computer science and artificial intelligence, as well as the past and present findings of memory researchers, in support of his position. Two years ago, at a Greensboro conference, his statements were spurned by a group of psychologists with a vested interest in the very paradigm he sought to reject; last fall, in Konstanz, West Germany, his most recent paper was selected to set the tone for the Language Use, Meaning and Interpretation International conference; in a few months, he will chair a discussion on the field that he has singlehandedly created, at the prestigious American Psychological Association annual meeting in Washington, D.C. His ideas, at first considered quite radical, are now gaining increasing acceptance. This article attempts to present, albeit non-exhaustively, a historical overview and some of the central features of Dr. Brockway’s theory of human memory.

In order to understand Dr. Brockway’s research, it is important to realize at the outset that much of what scientists do is to attempt to relate the known to the unknown through the use of metaphor. For example, a physicist may note that light tends to “bend” when it passes through a hole or around a relatively large object. This property is referred to as diffraction. Since waves in water exhibit a similar property, it may seem reasonable, for purposes of research, to describe light as a wave. What the physicist has done, then, in the words of Richard Boyd, is to attribute to something for which there exists no literal paraphrase the properties of a known thing with which he is more directly familiar. The metaphor he has created, however, is more than just shorthand scientific jargon; rather, it tends to guide research in the direction of discovering further similarities between the primary and secondary subject of the metaphor. Since light exhibits at least one property of a wave, it seems reasonable to assume that it will share other characteristics as well. And in this case, it does, as any good quantum mechanics text will tell you.

But a metaphor can just as easily be misleading. For instance, Benjamin Franklin and his contemporaries believed electricity to be a fluid. One characteristic of a fluid is that it can be contained; hence, many experimenters during this time strove to construct a device which could contain electricity. The result of their efforts was the Leyden jar, which, to all external tests, appeared to work, but the construction of...which was based on a metaphor now known to be limited in scope. The point is that while metaphors can serve as a guide for research, they can also serve as a constraint on the types of questions that can be asked about a phenomenon. In psychology, especially in the study of human memory, the object of scrutiny is far more ubiquitous. As far back as Pavlov, it was believed that memory for an event resulted from the reactivation of some neural connection between two points in the brain that were both active at the time of the original event. This would seem to imply that memories exist in some specific location of the brain, and could be characterized as actual, literal things, namely, the connection between two points in the brain. However, in the 1940s, Karl Lashley trained rats to run through a maze and then surgically removed varying portions of their cortex. Surprisingly enough, he found that decrements in maze performance were a function only of the overall amount of cortex removed, and not of the specific area from which tissue was removed. Even then, the impairment was not severe—rats with as much as 90% of their brains removed were still able to creep, crawl, or otherwise struggle their way through the maze. Lashley and many others after him have taken these findings as strong evidence against the notion that memories, especially memories for complex events, are localized in any specific region of the brain. However, it is arguable that learning complex events involves several different sensory modalities, and that damage in any part of the brain would disrupt performance by disrupting one of the sensory modalities used in the learning task. The more brain area damaged, the more sensory modalities destroyed, and hence, the greater the performance decrement. Lashley argued against this interpretation by demonstrating that the effects of damage to the occipital (visual) cortex were not the same as blindness. He took two groups of rats, blinded the eyes of one group, and left the other group’s eyes intact. Then he excised portions of the occipital cortex from both groups. He found that occipital lesions still produced as much disruption in maze performance for the blinded group as for the unblinded group. Evidently, the occipital cortex contributes to rats’ memory for mazes in more general ways than just through vision. Much later, in the early 70s, a great deal of research was directed toward the attempt to characterize memory as the formation of specific RNA molecules. Ungar (1972) trained a group of rats to fear the dark (a behavior that almost no normal rat will spontaneously exhibit), then ground up their brains, extracted one type of RNA that had not existed before the training, and injected this extract into another, untrained group of rats. Incredibly, these rats now exhibited a fear of the dark as strong as that found in their trained counterparts. But, as it happened, this was a fairly isolated finding.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9 April 1982