. In 36 Ligo sees his professional writing as having equal importance with his teaching. Since Davidson's hiring of a
second art historian, Melinda Lesher, Ligo has stepped up the pace of his professional writing coinciding with his interest in
photography. Until Lesher arrived, Larry Ligo was the Davidson art history department. In his last 3 years, Ligo developed seven
new courses which allow Davidson students to major in art with an emphasis in art history. He also initiated the
spring term in France, which allows Davidson students the opportunity to study 19th-century painting in the Louvre and medieval architecture
throughout France. When Dr. Lesher was hired, she replaced Ligo in the Humanities program where he taught for 2 years.
Ligo is content with the balance of professional writing and teaching he has attained.

Writing, for Ligo, can never replace teaching. He confesses to loving the classroom and believes that his photography course, which
he hopes to initiate at Davidson within the next three years, will be a significant addition.

Ligo did not come to be an art historian without some struggle within himself. Theology has competed with art for
Ligo’s energy since his undergraduate days. He preached nearly every Sunday while studying art at Muskingum College in Ohio, a
school Ligo remembers as being very similar to Davidson. Following his study at Princeton Seminary, Ligo was ordained a Presbyterian
minister at the American Church in Paris, where he served as assistant pastor for one year. He then returned to
the University of North Carolina, where he received his Ph.D. in art history. Through all his moves, he has tried
to hold together his interest in theology and art. Presently, Ligo preaches often at churches in the Davidson area. Perhaps
Ligo’s love of teaching can be partially understood in light of his ability in the classroom to simultaneously study art
while not sacrificing a close working relationship with people—the kind of relationship which has attracted Ligo to the church since
his youth.

Ligo does not allow the alleged isolation of Davidson to interfere with his work. In fact, he believes the trips
he makes with students to the best museums and to attend professional meetings in the United States create a near-ideal
situation for an art historian. For Larry Ligo, it seems Davidson provides the perfect environment for his dual interests in
art and theology.

Phone collect 1-919/755-4134

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 8 January 1982
