“The Year of the Cat” cont’d: on last year’s record,” Hussey figures. “One, we will have to play a lot of freshmen. Two, the schedule is stronger. Three, the Southern Conference—where we play 16 regular season games—is more balanced and stronger. We surprised a lot of teams last year. That’s not likely to happen again.”

Looking over the schedule, one can see Hussey is correct. The opening game is against national powerhouse DePaul at the Horizon in Rosemont, Illinois. You can probably mark it down as a loss, but don’t be too sure. If there was ever a time to beat DePaul other than the second round of the NCAAs, this is it. It’s their opening game and surely they’ll be expecting a pushover. The home opener against Erskine is a grudge match after last year’s embarrassing loss, so you can expect the Cats to run wild. Wake is far below last year’s talent. U Mass is fairly weak. Duke had the best recruiting year in the country but is weak on upperclassmen. Notre Dame returns star John Paxson and has an excellent freshman class as well. UNCC lost big guns Phil Ward and Bobby Potts, but the Forty-niners return Melvin Johnson, and former Wildcat star John Gullickson is now eligible for new coach Hal Wissel.

The biggest change, however, is the change in the Southern Conference tournament. It will again be at Charleston, West Virginia, but they’ll play all three rounds in one weekend. Better yet, it’s no longer during Davidson’s spring break. That’s right, the tournament starts Thursday, March 10, just four days into that dreadfully easy spring term. I’m not sure why they changed the dates. I do know, however, that by bringing all three rounds to Charleston they’ll be sure to have droves of Marshall fans making the hour-long foray to Charleston to watch their beloved Herd. That means money for the tournament.

All things considered, Davidson should have its first winning season in nine years. I’d go so far as to predict a 19-12 season, and they could well hit twenty wins. Bobby Hussey knows that. If you should happen to see him smiling in the next few months, you’ll know why. As for me, I’ve gotta smile with him. I’m making plans to spend a March weekend in Charleston. I hope to see you there.

by Steve Soud

The Scoop on the Southern
A Survey of Davidson’s Southern Conference Opponents and How They'll Fare

1. Tennessee at Chattanooga
The Mocs have won back-to-back Southern Conference championships, and this year they’re better. Although they lost All-Conference players Nick Morken and Russ Schoene (who made the talent-laden Philadelphia 76er roster), the Mocs will not be hurting. On the back court they’ll have last year’s MVP, Willie White, who can not only shoot the lights out, but the whole ceiling! Skip Clark, an experienced veteran, will join him there. At swing they added Dominique Wilkins’s 6-6 “little” brother Gerard, and the word is he can play. Lamar Oden, another JC transfer, may be better! Down low, Stanley Lawrence and Stanford Strickland return and should be outstanding. Murray Arnold is an excellent coach, and with no luck at all should successfully defend his crown.

2. Davidson

3. Furman
Welcome to the Southern Conference a Bobby Knight disciple, Jene Davis, who will be coaching the Furman Paladins. He has the personnel to piece together a winner. Chief among returnees is junior George Singleton, the aircraft carrier who was Freshman of the Year two years ago. He was slowed by a broken ankle last year, but this year he’ll be full strength and ready to dominate. Michael Hunt is a pretty good swing man, and filling out at the front line will probably be 6-10 freshman Greg Spurling, one of Tennessee’s best prep big men. The back court is the real weakness, but it shouldImprove with the season. Sophomore Tim Criswell and junior Floyd “Apollo” Creed will handle the ball. Look for running and man-to-man defense. This team could be the Davidson of 1982-83.

4. Western Carolina
Catamount hopes for a Southern Conference crown plummeted with the announcement that sharp-shooting guard Ronnie Carr (19 ppg) will never play basketball again. He suffered a serious heart injury in a summer automobile accident. With Carr out, the Catamounts will return no one who averaged over 8.8 ppg, but newcomers should offset this. JC transfer Bruce Hawkins will take over the reins at point guard, and junior Quentin Moore or senior Greg Young will complete the tandem. Up front will be a host of big men, including last year’s all-freshman selection Cedric Cokely and freshman Billy Miller. Cottrell never seems to be able to put all the talent together for a championship, but the loss of Carr could well be a rallying point.

5. The Citadel
Last year The Citadel surprised quite a few people, and their scrappy style of play should keep them winning. The Bulldogs return four starters including playmaker Greer Huguely (9.8 ppg, 4.3 assists) and Felipe de las Pozas (13.5 ppg) in the backcourt. Louie Gilbert and Gerald Toney (who doubles as the football quarterback) will bolster the forward positions. At center is Shaun Brown, an excellent leaper. Freshman Patrick Elmore could help out immediately. The Bulldogs may not ever be easy to beat, but they’ll probably never have the talent to be a legitimate contender. All-Conference Cliff Tribus hopes to lead the Wildcats to an SC title.

6. East Tennessee State
The Bucs have long been known for run-and-gun offense and nonexistent defense, and there’s no reason for any of this to change. Despite a new coach in Barry Dowd (a former Texas assistant with Abe Lemmon), you can’t teach old Buccaneers new tricks. The Buc lineup is small, but it boasts some of the nation’s best leapers. Senior guard Troy Lee Mikell is 6-1 but can dunk it with the best, and 6-6 forward Andre Motley rebounds at about 6-9. Point guard Marc Quesenberry returns as well. Dowd had a decent recruiting class, but none of them stands over 6-6. There will be added depth, but I’m not sure it will help.

7. Marshall
Year in and year out, Marshall is one of the most talented teams in the Conference. Year in and year out they fall way short of where they should be. The Thundering Herd returns the entire front line of David Wade (13.6 ppg, 6.9 rpg), LaVerne Evans (12.3 ppg), and Charles Jones (10.5 ppg, 6.1 rpg). The point guard returns as well. Everyone’s talking about freshman John Amendola, who averaged 29.6 ppg in high school. Despite overwhelming talent, the Thundering Herd will most likely cave itself into oblivion.

8. Appalachian State
Mountaineer coach Kevin Cantwell will tell you he just had the best ASU recruiting year in seven years, but how can he replace sharpshooter John Fitch and sometime MVP Charles Payton? He can’t. Their front line was decimated, with only 6-6 Wade Capehart returning. The backcourt will be very good, returning lightning-quick Kelvin McMillan and steady Bryant Hart, both seniors. Appalachian was the only team to lose to VMI last year. Need more be said?

9. Virginia Military
New coach Marty Fletcher is in trouble. Last year the Keydets were a young and inexperienced 1-25. This year they’re just as young and inexperienced. They lost Freshman of the Year Mark Vest—he went home to the University of Dayton. VMI fans are excited about freshman Gay Elmore (26 ppg, 10 rpg in high school), but if he can’t walk on water, chances are he can’t save these guys from the cellar. Also watch out for sophomore Cedric Wins.