Jim Troutman and Jim Hawk

Well, if you are wondering what this article is doing in here this week... it’s a new experiment the Davidsonian is trying out. We were somehow picked to write a bar column, why, we don’t know, but beer is a good incentive for us.

This week, due to the full schedule of evening events at Davidson, we were only able to squeeze in an afternoon visit to one of our favorite happy hours. Our little excursion took us to Casa Gallardo on Albermarle Road across from The Fogcutter (you know the one with the clever taxi cab commercial). Every weekday from 4 to 6 and 10 to 12 they have happy hour with great prices on mixed drinks. Super margaritas come loaded with seven shots of tequila in huge, fish-bowl-like glasses that will blow your socks off for only four bucks. The drinks are so large that allegedly Jama Greene was lost in one for a whole hour. Upon surfacing, Jama’s only response was “Thank God for those straws or I might not have ever made it out of there.”

In addition to “killer margaritas” Casa Gallardo’s also serves regular margaritas and regular mixed drinks costing $1.25 at happy hour and $2.25 during regular hours. Fruit juice drinks run $1.50 at happy hour prices and $2.50 at all other times. A free Mexican-style buffet is served during the 4-6 p.m. period. Items served include tacos, burritos, fried and fresh vegetables, and various dips. The quality of the food isn’t exceptional, but when you’re exceptionally hungry who worries about that?

We found the lounge to be tastefully decorated (especially the waitresses) in a Mexican style. If you’re lucky you will get the table near the dip ’n’ chip station where the waitresses dip to get more chips. Otherwise, there is a great spot in the back corner where you can relax in armchairs and sip margaritas to your heart's content.

All in all, Casa Gallardo’s is a good spot to spend a rainy afternoon. If the weather can’t get your spirits up, the tequila will.

Disco Update: Remember that great time? We sure wish we didn’t! We loved the choice of albums, all twenty of them, but then again... what can you expect from freshmen?

SUMMER JOB OPENINGS FOR CAMP COUNSELORS at Camp Sea Gull (boys) and Camp Seafarer (girls).

Serving as a camp counselor is a challenging and rewarding opportunity to work with young people, ages 7-16. Sea Gull and Seafarer are health and character development camps located on the coast of North Carolina and feature sailing, motorboating, and seamanship, plus many usual camping activities including a wide variety of major sports. Qualifications include a genuine interest in young people, ability to instruct in one phase of the camps’ programs, and excellent references.

For further information and application, please write a brief resume of training and experience in area(s) skilled to Don Cheek, Director, Camps Sea Gull/Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605.

BARBER FOR MEN AND WOMEN

YOU NAME IT — WE'LL STYLE IT

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

MAIN STREET

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982