National PIRGs Face Conservatives

CPS—“The case is not settled,” stresses Evelyn Liebman, head of the Rutgers-Camden campus Public Interest Research Group (PIRG). She strenuously refuses to concede defeat to what she sees as an organized, national conservative attack on PIRGs, the Ralph Nader-founded network of college-based “consumer advocate groups.”

But Liebman and the PIRGs at least lost the latest battle in August when a federal appeals court said PIRG’s fundraising methods—Rutgers students automatically gave $2.50 of their fees to the PIRG unless they specifically asked for a refund—raised serious constitutional questions, and asked the lower court to re-try the case.

A decision against the “checkoff system” of fundraising would “have real significance for PIRGs around the country,” predicts Ed Lloyd, executive director of New Jersey PIRG. Rutgers attorney Gregory Reilly agrees “other schools would want to be guided by the court’s decision” if it goes against the checkoff system.

Joseph Marshall, staff attorney for the Mid-Atlantic Legal Foundation, part of a nationwide network of conservative legal groups that frequently challenge liberal causes in court, speculates Rutgers could have to refund as much as $1.5 million to current and past students if it loses. “I imagine that administrators out in Wisconsin or elsewhere would have to look at that,” Marshall notes. “I’d think that would stop a lot of PIRG organizing.”

Such talk convinces Liebman that this is part of an organized conservative assault on PIRGs. “We feel [the lawsuit] was more than just the three students who sued,” Liebman says.

Three Rutgers students sued in September 1979, soon after the Camden chapter refused to fund one of the students’ proposed “pro-life study.” They charged the university made contributing to PIRG a virtual requirement for registration even though the group was primarily “ideological,” not educational. A lower court ruled against the students last summer, but the 3rd Circuit Court of Appeals in August said the lower court failed to establish the facts in the case before ruling. A new trial will be scheduled soon.

Larcenies Up This Year

By Angelique Foster ’86

More larcenies have occurred at Davidson College from May to October of this year than during any other year in a 5-month period of time. According to Public Safety Department Director J. G. Hughes, the rise in the number of stolen goods is due to two main incidents—one during the summer and one in early October.

“Based on what we had taken during the summer,” said Hughes, referring to the student possessions taken from summer storage, “[the number of larcenies] reported is higher than last year’s.” Eleven persons returned to school after summer vacation to find their possessions stolen.

The other major case of larceny was committed by two juveniles from the Davidson area. Apparently, two minors entered unlocked rooms while students attended the Davidson-James Madison football game on Saturday, 2 October. These juveniles, whose names must remain unmentioned, supposedly used the money to visit their grandmother in Florida, where they were apprehended and are now spending time in a detention center. The amount stolen totaled $711.50.

The students who reported a loss that weekend are Eric J. Kaufman whose losses totaled $28.00; John Ruppenthal who reported $30.00 worth of missing goods; Leslie McIver, $18.00; Roger Gore, $43.00; and Robert G. Spaugh, who missed $150.00 worth of possessions. Also victims of the theft are Lee Neisler who reported losses of $62.00; Martin Sekerke...reporting losses of $60.00; Kevin T. Kirk who found $130.00 of possessions stolen; Stanford Klinger, $26.50 of goods; Carl P. Hobson who had $35.00 of goods stolen; and Griff Elder, $17.00. The Wildcat Club and the Housing Office also reported losses that weekend totaling $40.00 and $60.00 respectively. “Other than these two incidents,” said Hughes, “the number of reports has been very low.” Twelve others have reported stolen objects since the beginning of the school year. What are the possible preventive measures? “Students need to lock their doors,” stressed Hughes. “The Honor System is good, but it doesn’t pertain to outsiders—they could care less.” In addition to locking room doors, students should be alert to strangers wandering the halls. Hughes said that all janitors are recognizable by Davidson identification cards that should be clipped to their uniforms. “If a student sees a suspicious stranger that doesn’t have an I.D. visible, he should give us a call.”

Cel Sale Soon
By Duncan Fraser ’86

Davidson College will host a special exhibit and sale of more than 250 animation cel paintings Monday and Tuesday, 18-19 October, from 9 a.m. until 6 p.m. in the College Union Gallery. Animation cel paintings, called “cels,” are the paintings actually filmed in making animated cartoons. Each character is painted by hand on a clear sheet of acetate, placed against a background, and photographed one by one to produce a reel of motion picture film. This exhibit/sale highlights the work of Warner Brothers’ Chuck Jones, creator of Wile E. Coyote and the Roadrunner, and Fritz Freleng, creator of Tweety and Sylvester and Yosemite Sam. Also included in the exhibit are cel paintings from numerous Walt Disney films. Disney artwork and other cels are fast becoming popular investments. Some cels from the late 1930s were recently auctioned by Sotheby Parke Bernet in New York and sold for as much as $300,000.00, although it is still possible to obtain first-rate examples of animation art for less than $50; in some cases for less than $25. The Davidson exhibit was authenticated by Gallery Lainzberg of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and a representative of Lainzberg will be on hand to answer questions.

Noise Ordinance Quiets Davidson
By PAULETTE KURANI ’86

The Town of Davidson Noise Ordinance, which was discussed at length and then drafted and approved last spring, finally went into effect 1 September 1982. The new ordinance hopes to “deter many more disturbing incidents,” says Mayor Nancy MacCormac. The noise issue was brought up last year when thirty exasperated residents from Davidson filed complaints after a loud Chairman of the Board band party at the Sigma Phi Epsilon house. This event was only the precipitating factor, however. Community members have had to put up with extreme noise from Davidson College students’ functions as well as neighbors’ parties for several years. “I had trouble sleeping just the other night because of horrendous noise after midnight,” claimed a resident of Terrace Acres, “I'd hate to live closer to the campus.” On the other hand, a woman who lives next door to the SPE house remarked that the noise does not disturb her much now. “The students have been cooperative and turn down the music when we ask them to,” she said. “In fact, the neighbors’ rooster bothers me more than they do.” Nevertheless, a Noise Committee was established, consisting of a Student Representative, Dean of Students Will Terry, two members of the Town Board, and two local residents. The two off-campus fraternity presidents, David