To the Editor:

We, the students of the Union Board, want to report several damages which occurred in the Union last Saturday night.
The damages include a four-foot hole in the wall of the 900 Room balcony and a sink which was ripped
off the wall of the men’s restroom. We are disappointed with the irresponsibility displayed on Saturday night. Several violations of
the Code of Responsibility occurred: not only did these damages happen, but no one has come forward to report them,
either as a witness or as the guilty party. Also, several students were found with alcoholic beverages in undesignated places
of the Union. The 900 Room is the only designated area of the Union where alcoholic beverages are allowed.

We want to remind students that drinking beer and wine in the 900 Room of the Union is a privilege.
We have not always had this privilege, and it is a privilege easily taken away from us if we abuse
it. Students abused this privilege Saturday night when damages occurred and when the drinking of alcoholic beverages was not confined
to the 900 Room of the Union. We face the possibility of losing our privilege.

As students of Davidson College, we are all bound by a Code of Responsibility. As a student body, we need
to prove that we are responsible for our actions and that we will not abuse the privileges given to us.

Sincerely,
The Davidson College Union Board

---

To the Editor,

In recent issues of the Davidsonian, attacks have been unjustifiably leveled at decisions involving Code of Responsibility and Honor Code
violations that have been handled both administratively and by the Honor Council. Specifically, I am addressing two statements which are
a major part of this attack. The first involves the feeling that sanctions involving violations should be made public so
that members of the Honor Council can be held accountable for their decisions. The second involves an article that stated
that the Honor System is semipermeable. The implication of this article is that sanctions are given in regard to the
offender and not necessarily the offense.

In the four years I have been on the Honor Council, there has not been one case with which I
have been associated, whether handled by the Council or by the administration, that would not stand up to public accountability
in regard to fairness. In making this statement, I am far from advocating that specific violations be made public because
it would be a great infringement upon privacy. The student body entrusts a great deal of responsibility to individuals elected
to the Honor Council. Council members take this responsibility very seriously every time a case is heard and believe that
their peers’ trust is accountability enough in making a fair decision.

The allegation that the Honor System is semipermeable hurts Council members most and is simply not true. A standard for
minimum sanctions for Honor violations is enforced except in extreme extenuating circumstances. This has helped to assure the college community
that there is uniformity in sanctions levied by the Honor Council and administration. In Code of Responsibility violations, Council members
determine what is believed to be a fair sanction regardless of whom the offender might be. No “deals” of any
type are made.

Questioning the functioning of the Honor System can help strengthen it; however, unjustified attacks at people doing their best to
uphold the system are counterproductive and in the long run hurt much more than help.

Stokes Peebles

---

Dear Editor:

Some advice please. Last month, just after Thanksgiving break, my roommate and I returned to our home on second Cannon.
We hadn’t been here but a few days when, lo and behold, I tried to pull down my window shade
and it came down upon me. TheShade was broken and beyond repair. Rather than give the guys in Sentelle a
free show, my roommate and I consulted and decided to request a new shade for our room from the Housing
Office. I trotted down to my RA and put in my request. She then took it to our Housing Director,
Mr. Bill Bolding. It is now the second week of January, 1982. Upon our return to campus, I inquired of
my RA the location of our shade. She visited Mr. Bolding and gave him our request again, marked “urgent.” We
have yet to see our new shade. Our questions are: do we go to Ace Hardware, buy a new shade
and bill it to the school or do we get a new shade from the Housing Office? Do we continue
to entertain the men of Sentelle with our bathrobe antics or do we apply to DCF’s needy fund?

Urgently,
Two coeds from Cannon,
Suzanne Dickey and Holly Spannuth

Dear Editor:

I believe that the creative contributions of countless individuals have been an intrinsic aspect of America’s growth and recent emergence
as the leader of the free world. Although these creative energies have often been neglected and even stifled by the
mainstreaming tendencies of society, no small number of brave individuals in the past have broken free from these social fetters
and have propelled America to the position it enjoys today. In light of these beliefs, I would like to protest
what I believe to be a grave and short-sighted censorship of this very creativity so important to the advancement of
human interests: namely, the painting over of graffiti in our dormitory restroom facilities. The facilities I use, for example, were
painted sometime over Christmas break, an action apparently sanctioned by the campus administration. Now, lifeless, gray walls greet the patron
instead of the once bountiful treasury of insightful axioms.

Indeed, the benefits of restroom graffiti are readily apparent. During a time traditionally devoted to daydreams, newspapers, even intellectual stagnation,
the John Doe of our society can pursue a creative and spiritually enriching experience while in a suitably equipped stall.
In truth, a host of contemporary scholars point not only to the positive aspects of these transient periods of intellectual
activity, but, more importantly, they emphasize the long-term benefits that restroom graffiti holds for our society. Writes one eminent psychologist
in a recent scientific journal, “the availability of restroom graffiti should be of no little concern to the contemporary citizen.
These typically anonymous yet prophetic treasures adorning our nation’s facilities signal the never-ending cultural and intellectual evolution of our society.”

The study of past cultures and peoples in humanities has taught me to appreciate the importance of the written word.
Oftentimes, our knowledge of these past civilizations depends solely on their written records. Yet, from these records, we can distill
the thoughts, the beliefs, the feelings, and the emotions of its people. By learning to prize what has survived the
passage of time, humanities has also served to give me a glimpse of the absolute finality of the written records
that have been lost forever. Obviously, the perpetrators of this most recent crime did not share this respect for the
written word. We were not even warned of the impending tragedy.

Based upon the points I have made above, I would like to underscore my assertion that john wall censorship is
socially unhealthy and short-sighted. I am willing, upon the request of similarly concerned parties, to take formal action in attempting
to get the erasure of john wall graffiti declared an honor-code violation. This universal threat to creativity and this violation
of our fundamental and unalienable right of free expression must be stopped.

Barry Elledge, Jr. ’85
