Clark, y bkai on WDAV'SF December 16, 1981. At a conference of Solidarity in Gdansk, December 10-12, 1981, Andrzej Gwiazda,
Walesa’s more militant assistant, in a way took the conference over. He pushed for demands that the regime had already
rejected, saying that if these demands were not met, Solidarity would call for a national referendum on two issues: whether
to continue to have a communist government and what military role Poland should continue to play in the Warsaw Pact.
These are two questions which a communist regime is totally unwilling to countenance, which the Soviet Union would not tolerate
and which Walesa himself had been very sanguine about. Solidarity’s moderates felt that they should not push that far into
the political realm, which in a communist system is not only unprecedented, but realistically untenable to the party. At the
same time, the economic situation was deteriorating in Poland, making popular support for such a movement pushing to these levels
very doubtful. A Solidarity leader, Tadeusz Kowalek, noted recently at a colloquium at Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School that perhaps Solidarity’s
popularity among the Polish people peaked as early as last May. When Solidarity made its initial gains, the people expected
three things: one, more food and goods; two, better health and social services; and three, better housing. None of these
have materialized, and in fact, all three have deteriorated seriously, particularly in the last six months. In a way, the
Polish popular mood has turned increasingly fatalistic. It appears that the military has complied and indeed carried out its task
with perhaps the army having to storm some factories, but met not with warlike operations but with the application of
force. This has led the more militant members of the movement to general characteristics of the younger militants. Unlike their
elders or even someone like Lech Walesa, they do not remember the war—the appeals to not bring Poland under the
threat of destruction go unheeded. The militants are really not even the generation of the 1970 strikes which brought the
government down but then moderated its demands afterwards, proving that one has to work within the parameters of the Polish
situation. The younger generation does not realize that one can only go so far with one’s big neighbor always watching.
Documents reveal that some of Solidarity’s militants confidently believed that the government or the Soviets had lost the will to
stop the movement. The revolution in Poland has been a very heady 18 months for the Solidarity movement. They succeeded
in demand after demand. Their fame or notoriety, their ability to make news, their ability to push their political and
other views in a system which has not tolerated it before became a very embracing experience. This process has led
some militants to believe that the limits of change are boundless.

Relationship of Military and Party
The leadership of the military is very closely tied in with the regime and indirectly or directly with the communist
party. The interesting thing right now is, of course, the party leader, General Jaruzelski, a military man by training, who
is also the defense minister and the prime minister. Nobody has ever held these three roles simultaneously before. General Jaruzelski
is widely respected for his moderation and for his patriotism. He has, I think, the loyalty of most of the
army, including even the enlisted men, and the loyalty of the average Pole within certain limits as well. He appears
tohave been able to draw upon that loyalty more than traditional party leaders such as Stanislaw Kania, who was replaced
not very long ago by Jaruzelski, or Gierek, who was replaced 18 months ago. So there is now a martial
overlay on the Party which has not existed before. With the limited information that we have, it appears there is
limited resistance; certainly not widespread or mass resistance. The primate of Poland has said, "We will not..." (the situation does
not come about). Archbishop from the West has spoken over. Some of the more moderates in the movement, including Lech
Walesa himself, have been calling for moderation.

There are several reasons for the lack of resistance. The Poles themselves do not want to get caught in the
dilemma of Pole shooting Pole. The Catholic Church has called very actively for moderation.

Position of the Church
There is something almost sect-like which ties the Polish Catholic Church together with the Polish communist government. Although they are
certainly antagonistic in the realm of political or religious ideas or even in the view of what is proper for
Polish society, they both have a lot to lose if the Soviets intervene. One is the religious freedom and toleration
in Poland which is unprecedented in the rest of Eastern Europe. Another is the internal autonomy which the party has
enjoyed over the last 20 years. This helps explain why they push for gradual change rather than sudden, cataclysmic change.

Will Reform Continue?
If General Jaruzelski remains in power as prime minister, party leader, defense minister, and general of the army, at least
part of the reform movement would still be intact. Whether it would be a Solidarity such as we have seen
in the last 18 months or perhaps the Solidarity of the first six months of agreements, the reform movement may
emerge with only a limited right to strike rather than an open right to strike, with a Solidarity participating on
workers’ councils, but not necessarily determining economic policy. I think reform will occur within the party itself, particularly reform in
the economic sense because Poland’s economy was already in a crisis state before the arrival of Solidarity. I think that
the people in the military and those in the party behind the military crackdown now know that for Poland to
continue, the economy is the chief area where changes will have to be made. Some kind of liberalization is needed
which would unleash productivity and changes in moving from extensive to intensive economic growth. This would relieve the problem of
shortages in industries which have had all kinds of massive credit infusions over the last decade but really have not
changed their structure because of centralized planning. The last 18 months have shown that economic change is inevitable in one
form or another. Poland needs what has been happening quietly in Hungary. There, at least on the small shop level,
there is a good bit of individual initiative given through material incentives and unrecognized private enterprise to make sure that
goods get to the shelves, that farmers produce enough food so that one does not have to spend massive amounts
on bringing in foreign grain or other types of goods to make up shortages.

Economic Situation
Poland’s traditional heavy industries had to find the means to do it. What Gierek did was to borrow...
