Sports Cats Fall to Powerful S.C. State _ Refs’ calls turn game around: 24-7

By SCOTT HUIE ’85

It makes you wonder why the Cats even play in this league. That is not to say last Saturday’s 24-7 loss to South Carolina State was a rout. It wasn’t. In fact, the game very easily could have gone Davidson’s way had the referees reversed two “very questionable” calls. But just listen to Coach Ed Farrell talk:

“Yes, those guys [State] had the best overall individual talent I’ve seen in my nine years at Davidson. They definitely had superior personnel. Six to ten of their players will be drafted next year. And that Reed fellow (All-American fullback Anthony Reed) is without a doubt first-round material.”

There’s more. The Bulldogs are ranked sixth in the nation in NCAA Division II-A, and their defense, second overall, is number one against the run (59 yards a game) and fourth against the pass. Just the same, the Cats scratched and scrounged until the final buzzer, no thanks to the referees.

The first “questionable” call came late in the third quarter with the Bulldogs ahead 17-7. State’s second-string quarterback dropped back to pass from the Davidson 37-yard line. On a blitz, cornerback Mark Hartman charged in and knocked the ball out of the quarterback’s hand for an apparent fumble recovery. The refs, however, decided otherwise, calling it an incomplete pass. Said Farrell, “I know it’s a judgment call, but no way was that quarterback’s arm in motion.” So instead of Davidson having great field position, State resumed possession where the quarterback fumbled. Had it been an incomplete pass, the officials would have placed it at the line of scrimmage. Instead, as if the ball had been fumbled, they positioned it on the spot.

The second “questionable” call occurred at the 14-minute mark in the fourth quarter. Faced with a third and

Baseball Gets Early Start

By TODAY ’83

On a typical fall Davidson day, a jogging student is sure to see the Wildcat football team practicing and the soccer team going through its drills or, perhaps, playing. The jogger will probably be passed several times by members of the Cross Country team and will catch an errant field hockey ball in the shin if not careful. This autumn, in addition to the normal fall sports, the jogger will also discover the Davidson baseball team hard at work.

Sure, baseball is a spring sport, but most every successful college team has a fall program. In an attempt to join the ranks of the successful, second-year head coach George Greer is taking full advantage of the relatively nice weather and the opportunity it produces for fall practices. Greer is faced with the formidable task of “rebuilding” a team that wasn’t all that strong last year. Fall workouts allow for a more accurate assessment of talent. Also, players can work on individual skills, infielders can work with each other, and pitchers can improve existing pitches as well as develop new ones. In fact, the pitchers have been fortunate this past week to work out under the guidance of ex-bigleaguer and now pitching coach, Ace Adams. A handful of fall scrimmage games against other schools (UNCC, Pfeiffer, U.Conn.) enable the players to test their newfound skills against others. The results have been favorable as the Cats have recorded three wins against one loss. Incoming freshmen have been put to the test early and have shown the ability to play at the college level. As the fall season winds down, several freshmen have earned starting positions. Tim Waters and Keith Helfant will turn the double plays for the Cats this year at shortstop and second base. Scott Weaver has shown occasional sparks of power in practice and will pick 'em at first base, as well as pitch. Rounding out the infield will be Senior David Emory, a transfer from UNC who was forced to sit out last year. John Mahoney, another freshman, is slated to fill the centerfield position. On his sides, in right and left field, will be two of any number of players. Returners Doug Wiley (when not pitching), Jeff McSwain (when not playing football), and Todd Pierce (when not in Tunnel Hill) will vie for the spots. Swainer looks like the best bet in right field.

continued on by Anderson Scott forever from midfield, State’s QB threw up a prayer which cleared everyone and landed outside the end zone. The referees, however, threw a flag charging cornerback Stockton Whitten with pass interference and placed the ball on the one-yard line. Two plays later, the Bulldogs scored. The problem is, pass interference cannot be called on an uncatchable ball. Said Farrell, “The correct call—if any contact was made—should have been illegal use of the hands, which results in a 15-yard penalty. Chances are State would have taken the penalty and punted the ball away.” Instead, the Bulldogs had an insurmountable 17-point cushion. Score: S.C. State 24, Davidson 7, Referees 2. “Very seldom do I publicly complain about the officiating,” Farrell said, “but those were just awful calls.” “The refs didn’t even give us a chance to win,” said defensive coordinator Jim Sypult.

In the first half, however, it looked as though the Cats did have a chance. With Davidson down by a field goal in the second quarter, cornerback Kendrick Williams recovered a Bulldog fumble on the State 25. Six plays later, quarterback Keith Martin took it over from the two. State, however, roared back with long touchdown drives in both the second and the third quarters to put them ahead for good. The Cats could muster only 128 yards in total offense, compared to 305 for State. Fullback Bob Miller rushed for 31 yards in 11 attempts, and halfback David Turner, seeing his first playing time this year because of a shoulder injury, gained 18 yards in two carries. Martin completed seven of eleven passes for only 29 yards. Said Farrell, “Seeing the score and the statistics, people don’t understand how well we played. The defense was solid, and offensively, execution was good. Earlier in the season, I was saying we were stopping ourselves. This time S.C. State stopped us.”