Sheet. He’s one of the most intense people I’ve ever met, and when the team loses he takes it deeply.
He’s not used to losing. He’ll get maybe two hours of sleep tonight because he’ll watch the game films over
and over, a particular play countless times until he finds the kinks that need to be worked out of the
team for a winner. And tomorrow morning he’ll go to church with his family and people will wonder why he’s
got bags under his eyes. I’m thoroughly convinced if Davidson is to rebuild its basketball program to the level of
national prominence it enjoyed a decade ago, Bobby Hussey is the man to do it.

Coach Hussey spoke of the game for a while, then he looked up soulfully and asked, “Where were the fans?
Our biggest game of the year and we get the smallest crowd. Where were they?” He was hurt, or bewildered,
or disgusted, probably all three but mostly hurt, and I couldn’t agree more wholeheartedly. I answered meekly, “I guess most
of them were out for dinner or getting ready for the dance.” Davidson crowds really upset me sometimes. Part of
the crowd thinks it’s a museum they walked into, so they whisper, “Oh my, did you see the stroke Tribus
used on that slam dunk?” as if they were viewing an art exhibition. Another part of the crowd theorizes basketball
is a direct descendant of ballet and should be viewed with the same dignity. A third part comes fully prepared
for a cocktail party (minus the drinks) and spends the time socializing. They idly chat, “I see John and Jane
are together tonight,” or “My, you look nice tonight” when the girl looks like a neon sign. The sad thing
is some of these people are the very ones who rant and rave in front of the television when their
beloved Tar Heels bless the airwaves and the ref has the unmitigated gall to perceive a foul by James Worthy.

But thank God there’s one more group left, for I tremble to think what the crowd would be like without
them. The Pikes epitomize this group, although there are some vocal Fijis and Delts as well. These are the fans
who get rowdy in front of the tube, be it UNC or Louisville, and bring that spirit to the game
with them. Unfortunately, few of these were in attendance Saturday night. Now don’t get me wrong, because a slam dunk
does have elements of ballet and it is interesting to watch Jane ditch John and go sit with Ron. But
as intimidating as Johnston Gym crowds are, they aren’t what they can be. Duke fans don’t sit down at Blue
Devils games, even though they’re having a horrendous season. Davidson fans stand up! Shout! Scream! Clap! Stomp! A hoarse voice
never killed anyone. There’s a Piedmont Bank ad in the program which cites everyone as a winner in an athletic
event. The fans, contends the article, win because of the cathartic effect of the screaming. So let it all go
at the next game, for Davidson’s sake. But anyway, back to the locker room.

Well, after my little chat with Coach Hussey I wished the two a good evening and told Coach not to
kill himself over the loss. I’m not sure he heard, and if he did I’m not sure he listened.

When I walked outside of the Gym I saw the other side of life. There were the Mocs, smiling, shouting,
and jamming to some funk emanating from the ever-present box. Meanwhile, on the inside, Coach Hussey absorbed himself in a
long delayed dinner and plots to knock off UT-C in March.

By Steve Soud

WRITE SO THAT OTHERS MAY READ

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 5 February 1982

49
