John Stanfield: How does a peaceful 12-string player deal with the furtive 80’s?

By LISA BOARDMAN ’84 and CLARE ECKERT ’85

A brief walk out Concord Road leads to the home of John Stanfield, a Davidson graduate (class of ’76) and
musician who performs in surrounding areas. Although he used to spend most of his time traveling (“I’ve been from Montreal
to Miami”), Davidson is his base of operations since his marriage to Dr. Cynthia Lewis last summer.

John is a guitar and fiddle player who grew up with music in Fayetteville, N.C.; at the age of five
he began viola lessons with his music professor uncle. His mother was a piano teacher, and his father an accomplished
accordion player, so John had plenty of encouragement to develop his musical talents. Although he still plays classical viola, today
John’s music is his own personal mixture of folk, bluegrass, and ballad traditions.

As a junior in high school, John began writing instrumental pieces, but he performed only a few times. However, once
he started school at Davidson, music became his major interest. He joined up with Linda Williams his freshman year, and
the duo performed in what is now the Guest House, but then the Student Union. Somewhere in the depths of
this building was a small, black-walled closet called the Rathskeller, where entertainers played to crowds of thirty or more. At
about this time John began writing lyrics for his songs. By the time he graduated, he was ready to put
together an album. “Carolina 12-String” (1977) emphasizes his instrumental talents, but his second album, to be released this winter, will
be half instrumental and half lyrical.

It used to be difficult for John to sing in front of audiences, but now he feels more at home.
John attributes this more comfortable attitude toward live performances to the personality he assumes during shows. When onstage, a confident,
alert John Stanfield takes over and performs with more life than he ever achieves in practice sessions. “My mind works
a lot more quickly,” John explained. “I really like the feeling of that personality.”

John prefers small, intimate groups, like the ones he played to in the Rathskeller, to the types of crowds he
feels predominate today. They “wrestle you into something they demand,” and John responds to these audiences with more raucous, up-tempo
music. He hopes that the trend started by the “me” generation will turn back to the “gentle gatherings” begun in
the late sixties by bluegrass musicians.

As proof of this preference, John recorded his second album live in front of a small crowd at the chapel
of Spirit Square. He says he plays better in front of people, although he feels more tension. Once he's started
a song, he knows he must continue: “you have to play that next note.” There is no starting over as
in rehearsal. The tension increases with each note until the song ends.

When asked what his favorite song is, John refers to one of his older, quieter pieces. “Brown,” one of the
selections on his first album, tells the story of a retired sailor who goes into the hills and ends his
days driving a junk wagon. The character is based on an old man John used to see in Fayetteville when
he was young. The kinds of lyrics he tends toward are illustrated by one of J. R. R. Tolkien’s poems
found in The Lord of the Rings. It’s about green grass and a glade, and “it’s got elves in it,”
John added with a grin.

Since he is traveling less, John has more time to devote to other creative outlets. For instance, he is now
writing a novel, a “science-fiction comedy. I’ve got 120 pages so far.” He hasn’t decided on a title yet. In
the future,John hopes to tour in Europe regularly. He has performed in England, where the atmosphere is still one of
quiet, small shows with plenty of give and take between the musician and his listeners. Until then, he continues to
play locally. He still sells himself with the straightforward method he learned from C. Shaw Smith, that is, telling people
to “just listen to it and let me know if you like it” instead of John’s own “honest” approach: “Look,
you aren't going to hear 12-string like this for a long time.” John feels that Shaw Smith’s method “doesn’t help
much in the secular world,” because there are too many “go-getters” and “climbers” more interested in making it to the
top than insisting on quality work. “I have some qualms about the modern world. There aren't enough people willing to
forego the bucks.”

(Continued from page 8)

Diggs left the foreign service without ever having influenced policy or inspired social reform. Although disappointed about that, he also
feels a sense of accomplishment for the personal fulfillment his career brought him. “It was a continuing learning experience,” he
said. “No one can ever really stop learning... This is one of the things that the people in Liberia forgot.”
When asked about “accomplishments,” however, he immediately responded, “One of the things I accomplished was just being able to stay
alive!”

As a visiting professor on the Davidson campus this term, Diggs relishes the opportunity to share his background and experience
with the Davidson community. “One of the things I want to do here at Davidson is to try in whatever
way I can to provide a window on the outside world for the students... so that their horizons can be
broadened,” he said. Diggs feels it is particularly important to convey to Americans some knowledge of Africa and the Third
World. This term he furthers that effort by teaching a political science course, “Foreign Policies of African States” and a
Center seminar on “Third World Diplomacy.”

Upon his return to the United States this year he noted considerable social progress in America since the 1950s, but
warns that the disparity between rich and poor nations in the world is growing, and that the U.S. has a
responsibility to take “a more positive role” in closing that gap. This is one of the few issues on which
all African countries agree. The other is “the continuing struggle for the liberation of southern Africa.” Diggs feels that we
in the United States need to look much more seriously than we have at both of these issues.

Diggs will return to his business in Liberia after this term, and is “cautiously optimistic” that the ruling military junta
will effectively restore order and hand back government to civilians in a few years. While at Davidson, he intends to
enjoy peace and quiet like he never had it in Africa, having lived through a total of three coup d’états
(two in Nigeria) and “very many ticklish situations.” He especially looks forward to life without curfews and the sound of
gunfire overhead at night.

As Chairman of the Center for Special Studies Dr. Lou Ortmayer put it, “In the United States we take stability
for granted.” Nowhere is this more true than at Davidson. Professor Lafayette Diggs has spent most of his fifty years
in a continent riddled with instability, and he knows some things better than we. His life is, in many ways,
a testimony to the value of a liberally educated mind. It illustrates that the development of a liberal perspective is
not just so many ivory tower ideals and platitudes. It confers shrewd, practical wisdom on the owner and sometimes even,
with just a little bit of uncanny luck, the ability to survive.

— THE DAVIDSONIAN / 10 December 1982.
