On April 14, 1982, Davidson basketball took a big step in turning its program around as the coaches got commitments from their top six recruits. Davidson is “by no means around the corner,” but this recruiting class gives them a solid start.

Coach Hussey, in his usual reserved manner, cautioned, “It would be totally unfair to say this freshman class is going to get the Davidson program going. You can’t really be absolutely sure what's gonna happen with these guys. Basically, all the factors we’ve come up with have been positive factors. The real key,” he continued, “is that the guys [returnees] will return with the proper attitude that we’re gonna have to work hard to play well. It rests more on their shoulders than the freshmen.”

None of these recruits is a top candidate, but all are very solid players. When they come into the Davidson program, they will potentially become outstanding players. “We really do recruit for things beyond physical talent. Obviously, we’ve got to recruit academics, but we recruit attitude and court savvy, and whether the guy will fit into a team concept,” Hussey says. “They all have been recruited for intangible as well as tangible reasons. They understand team concepts well. They understand our program—that it’s the strength of the team more than the strength of one or two players.”

The high school player, Hussey points out, must make a huge transition in a very short time. Instead of opening against Southside High, these players will open against DePaul in the Horizon. The difference, according to Hussey, is “learning to play with other good players and being a part of things.”

And now, the recruits:

Gerry Born
6-7, 210, Ringold, Ga., 18 ppg, 10 rpg. Born chose Davidson over Georgia Tech, UT-C, Mississippi, Mississippi State, Creighton, and Tennessee. He shot 55% from the floor and made second team All-Georgia, first team All-North Georgia, first team All-Chattanooga area, and he qualified for Knoxville’s AAU team. “Gerry can be a swing-forward or a power forward either one. He’s a strong player, rebounds very well, and knows how to use his body inside. For a big man, he runs the court very well. He’s a great team player.” Born will probably take an Economics major.

Rafael Hernandez
6-6, 198, Hope Mill, NC, 22.3 ppg, 11.0 rpg. As a sophomore, Raf played with Kenny Wilson, and the two are very much the same style. “He plays all out, like Kenny Wilson,” says Hussey. “If he plays as hard as Kenny, he’ll be a great college player.” “With the physical ingredients that he can bring to our team, he can add to our team in terms of speed, quickness, and leaping ability. He’s a quick leaper,” Hussey comments. He’ll play wing. Rafael made All-Conference, All-East (NC), and honorable mention All-State teams. He will take an Economics major as well.

Jim McConkey
Jim McConkey is the heir apparent to Jamie Hall’s center position. But Hussey cautions, “I don’t anticipate anyone coming in as a freshman to play quite as well as Jamie played this year. Jamie didn’t have to make those adjustments which any freshman is going to have to make. Sometimes there’s no substitute for experience.”McConkey is an excellent shooter with a soft touch outside and muscle inside. Says Hussey, “He’s a big strong guy, and he’s going to use his body to get position and make scoring easy. He’s quicker than he appears.” McConkey has outstanding credentials. He led Collinsville to a 22-6 record, leading the Illinois Metro Area in scoring and free throw shooting (82.6%) in the process. He was first team All-Illinois, two-time All-Southwestern Conference, won MVP honors in two tournaments, and is a member of the Illinois All-Star team. He played tight end on his high school football team and was All-Conference and two-time outstanding lineman for the team. Jim will probably take a pre-law major.

Ken Niebuhr 6-7, 210, Wadsworth, Ohio, 17 ppg, 17 rpg. Niebuhr, who chose Davidson over Akron and UNC-W, was first team All-Medina and second team All-State. He shot 52% from the floor, 70% from the line. Niebuhr should shore up rebounding weaknesses—he hauled in 28 caroms in one game. “He’s a strong, inside player who blocks out well. He’s an extremely physical type player even though he’s only 6-7,” Hussey says. He’ll play forward and will probably take pre-med courses.

Ted Wolfe 6-8, 205, Arlington Heights, IL, 12 ppg, 7.5 rpg. Wolfe is credential-laden as well. He was twice named All-Mid Suburban, played for the Chicago suburban team that defeated a city all-star team, and made the Illinois AAU team and a team slated to tour Europe. He picked Davidson over Evansville, which qualified for the NCAA tournament, mainly because of academics. “He really is a team player. He will provide the proper type chemistry to a team. He’s aggressive, rebounds, and can face the basket and shoot well,” Hussey cites. He led Arlington High to a 25-6 record.

Hussey expects to announce the signing of a sixth player once the admissions process is complete, and there is a good chance they'll recruit a guard. And keep in mind Frank Johnson will be playing. The addition of these recruits will give Coach Hussey much greater depth and versatility, although he will probably run the same triple post offense. “I believe in playing three or four big men at one time—always three, mostly four.” The triple post includes a low post, high post, and baseline forward. According to Hussey, “All these guys can play any one of those positions.” Hussey adds, “I'd like to thank the students, faculty, and administration who were very helpful in selling Davidson to our recruits. The basketball team did a very, very good job. Tom Franz was 3-for-3.”

Although these six recruits represent a solid foundation for Davidson basketball, Hussey still wants a top 50 caliber player. “Next year we’ve gotta shoot for one of those guys. We’re beginning to have some tradition within our team.”

Steve Soud '84