Hurley, Johnston: President Davidsonian, please tell us a little about yourself—what qualifying experiences have you had, and what has your
past SGA experience been?

Hurley: I'm a junior Political Science major from Virginia. I served as a freshman class senator, sophomore class president, was
co-chairman, with Tim, of the food committee of the SGA. I was also elections board chairman in the spring, and
formed and chaired the Rides to the Airport Committee. I am also Vice President of the SGA, chairman of the
Residence Hall Council, an active member of the Noise Ordinance committee, which was a lot of fun, and represented Davidson
in the Southern Conference student Government meetings, which was a really good chance to prepare for Student Government throughout the
Southern Conference. I was also chairman of the Intracampus Mail committee. Outside of the SGA, I am a member of
the PiKA fraternity and have worked with the Y Student Service Corps. Most of my activities have run through working
with the SGA.

Johnston: I'm an English major from Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Freshman year in the Spring, I was elected Sophomore Class Senator, and
for that year chaired, after Chip had, and, working with Chip, I chaired the Rides Committee. Last Spring I ran
for Junior Class Senator and won the Presidency of the Junior Class. In that capacity, I have served under the
Student Council, been chairman of the Senate Security and Grounds Committee, co-wrote a paper for the President which is still
under review. I have been a Hall Counselor this year and I'm a Resident Advisor. I am a member of
Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, and eat at ETC.

D: What do you see as the role of the SGA at Davidson?

I think that the SGA can be more of a mobilizer of effective student involvement in terms of what can
be done for students while they are in Davidson and in terms of the future. I don’t think that the
student body and the body of the student Senate have been mobilized enough in the past, and I think it
is the role of the President and the job of the SGA to involve the students to a much greater
degree. Whether that involves phonathons, which should be, and are now, I believe, an institution that can be improved only
through student involvement. There are many other areas in which students can be mobilized. I think that since students are
the greatest asset to the school, the SGA has got to take an active role in more non-official students—more students
who do not have an official position in any organization on campus. With more activities geared toward improving the situations
on campus, one of which is job placement. I’m very concerned, now more than ever, about the condition and prospects
of students who are not either financially or career-wise planning to go to graduate school. I think that some of
these students are in rather big trouble if they don’t get more help from the student government and the Careers
Office. And I think it is going to be the job of the SGA to bring the administration together more
with the students who are not in the SGA. In so doing, the SGA will achieve more, but it must
gear itself towards more of the organization of the people on campus.

D: Would you see the SGA more as a service organization or a political organization? For example, rides to the
airport, phonathons as opposed to getting involved in specific community issues, like Reagan’s education cuts, curriculum, etc.

J: I think the SGA should do both. It is capable of both; it has enough potential to get things
done in both areas. There are enough willing people to come to the SGA and work in the capacity of
service, who would love to help students get a ride to the airport and back. Those people should be able
to serve that purpose. Although I would like to see the service things continue, I am more concerned with what
you call the political aspects, like job placement. Things like that are just essential, now more than ever. I myself
might be one of these students, who just doesn’t get in where he wants to go or can’t afford to
go, or whatever. This is an example of a situation where the SGA has got to become more political, to
assert itself and get things done.

H: There are a lot of things that the SGA has responsibility over, and a lot of things that the
SGA can initiate. Every year certain things have been neglected more than others. The big thing is really looking for
the student needs in dealing with the faculty, administration, and trustees. The student government is the one voice the students
have to these three very influential parts of the school. I think we have to look for what to look
for in our curriculum, dealing with the computer course and the whole idea of business courses. The school is here
to provide for the students, and a certain amount of student input is necessary.needed in the curriculum. The same thing
in dealing with the administration—constantly you have the Patterson Court situation. Student input is necessary, and the proper channel of
that is in the SGA. You have the Council on Campus and Religious Life, which members of the SGA are
on, as well as members of the student body. The SGA plays a very large part in the student’s life.
I see the SGA as the real tool for getting student needs and ideas voiced to the faculty, administration, and
trustees.

D—What about this service?

H—I think the service is important. Occasionally we find things which no organization provides for the students and yet it
is a real need. This was the case in the rides to the airport. The Phonathon, I see as being
just as political in the campus structure as it is service-oriented, because it is working with the Development Office. Although
it is a service function, you are also educating the students about the budget of the school and how important
alumni giving is. I think that a lot of dividends will be reaped from things like the Phonathon. I would
like to see the Intracampus mail expanded to include perimeter housing. But I think the major focus of the SGA,
or at least my focus, is the potential influence it has politically. As for nationwide issues, I don’t think the
SGA would have as much influence as even the Davidsonian. But I think that a lot more success can come
from working with the administration, the Dean’s Office, Dr. Zimmerman’s Office when it comes to curriculum, and also with the
faculty committees—and working with the administration in our Trustee Contact Committee, where students are writing trustees. I think that the
politics are a more important focus for the SGA, yet I think it’s terrific that the SGA can provide services
that are not provided by any other organization.

D—What is the single most valuable thing you have done in the SGA?

H—By attending the summit conference SG meeting we had, I gained a valuable insight as to how our SGA compares
to other SG’s and some ideas as to what can be done in the future to improve our own SGA.
This was very valuable as an opportunity to gain knowledge on current government and its organization. As far as service,
it would be in being in charge of the entertainment for the SGA weekend last year, which was special to
me because of being able to share the experience of Davidson College. I was also a hall counselor for July
because I enjoyed working on that weekend so much.

J—I think the thing I got most out of and learned the most from is what Chip and I took
part in last year—getting ARA removed from Davidson College. I had no respect for that organization, and it became apparent
that the only group that was going to get them moved out was the SGA. If the administration was not
going to listen to Davidsonian articles, then someone was going to have to see how much clout the SGA potentially
had, and I found out that we had a lot, and I’ve carried that with me since. The most valuable
thing for me was that I realized that, as a unit, the SGA can, politically, get a hell of a
lot done.

D—What sort of issues do you see the SGA bringing up this next year: continuing issues, or even old issues?

J—I’ve already talked about dealing with the Careers Office and taking its own initiative with corporate relations and helping out
current and future seniors here. Another issue I see becoming very large is the semester—trimester issue. Personally, I could handle
either, but there are those who have a good reason for the semester system, and those with good reasons for
the trimester system. I would like to set up a diverse committee to look at the issue from both sides
and take a good poll. The SGA can really matter with that.

D—Would you see sex-blind admissions policy as being an issue?

J—Probably not an issue very soon. Maybe equal access. A good step in the right direction has been taken with
this floating policy. I, as other Davidson males, would be interested in moving closer to a sex-blind admissions policy, but
not actually going all the way. I don’t think that the trustees are planning to get to the subject of
sex-blind admissions, but as long as the SGA can take a part in making sure the steps continue in that
direction, I think it needs to be pushed. I don’t know how swiftly or to what degree.

H—Some internal restructuring needs to take place in the committees. There are a lot of things we want to continue
with. We made good progress in the Hall Council with the lottery system. Because
