Continued from page

To the editor:

Surprising as it may seem, few people are aware of the plans the Reagan administration is pursuing for the dumping
of hazardous radioactive wastes into United States coastal waters. The Environmental Protection Agency is currently drafting new regulations which will
result in U.S. “low-level” radioactive waste dumping in the ocean, and which also redefine “low-level” to include some wastes now
defined as “high-level.”

The U.S. Department of Energy is preparing an application to the EPA for the disposal of tons of low-level radioactive
soil into the ocean, probably without any packaging. The EPA expects to grant a permit for this prior to enacting
its new regulations. DOE is currently studying the possibility of burying high-level radioactive waste in ocean seabeds, where they are
expected to remain undisturbed.

The U.S. Navy has been studying the possibility of permanently “scuttling” 130 decommissioned nuclear submarines (containing some low-level waste) off
the coast of California and Hatteras, North Carolina. In response to this, a massive grassroots opposition in California resulted in
the passing of a bill in the California Legislature opposing the plans. The Navy has temporarily backed off from California
and is still considering North Carolina waters.

These developments are indeed cause for concern. Little is known about the effects of radioactive wastes on the ocean environment,
and ocean dumping is practically irreversible. Given the enormity of the radioactive waste disposal problem in this country, the precedent
set by any of these dumpings would pave the way for many more dumpings.

What can you do about this? Plenty. The Senate will meet again for a lame duck session on 29 November
to finish up a lot of old business. Since economic legislation will be the most urgent focus of this session,
public pressure is needed to get the ocean dumping issue on the floor for consideration. If H.R. 6113 is not
adopted then, the Senate will probably approve a reauthorization of the Act without it.

On Monday, 18 October, from 7:00-8:30 p.m. in the Union Conference Room, the Davidson chapter of NCPIRG will sponsor an
informal meeting to write letters to senators urging them to consider and adopt H.R. 6113 during the lame duck session.
In addition, a testimony addressed to Congressman Walter Jones, who is holding a hearing in Manteo, North Carolina, this month
on this subject, will be drawn up and signed. Stationery, a list of senators, sample letters, and further information will
be provided. Look for publicity being distributed this weekend.

Come to this important meeting and exert your influence as a citizen to safeguard our oceans against radioactive waste dumping.
Ten minutes of your time can make a difference. If you cannot attend, write to one or both of your
state senators and to Senator John H. Chafee (chairman of the subcommittees on Environmental Pollution and Resource Protection); United States
Senate; 5229 Dirksen Office Building; Washington, D.C. 20510. Urge them to adopt H.R. 6113 with the reauthorization of the Ocean
Dumping Act, especially because of its radioactive waste provisions. A short letter or card will do.

Congressman Norman E. D’Amours (D-N.H.) recently stated: “As a common-access resource, the ocean is not protected by the same economic
and political forces that protect private property... It is up to the members of Congress to provide a voice for
the ocean and to ensure that the ocean has sufficient protection.” Let us not forget that we are the voice
of Congress.

Fortunately, there is a chance that all this can be averted, at least for the time being. On 20 September
1982, the House of Representatives adopted H.R. 6113, a set of amendments to the Ocean Dumping Act which is up
for reauthorization in both houses this year. In addition to several stricter limitations set by these amendments onEPA ocean dumping
policies, provisions are included which 1) impose a two-year moratorium on ocean dumping of low-level radioactive waste; 2) impose strict
new rules for study of environmental risks of radioactive dumping before permits can be issued; 3) allow a one-house congressional
veto of any future radioactive waste dumping permit. These measures cannot be included in the Ocean Dumping Act without Senate
approval. Little Senate support had been generated for them when the Senate adjourned earlier this month, and H. R. 6113
never made it to the floor for a decision.

John Krotchko

No More Lit Supplement?

Dear Editor,

The poignancy of Janet Stovall’s article in the October 1 issue of the Davidsonian has moved us to raise a
question concerning the need for an outlet for student compositions. What has happened to the literary section of the Davidsonian?
Is the creative talent of Davidson students so limited that it no longer merits recognition in the students’ own newspaper?
Is the door to public expression of student creativity to be slammed in our faces? We say no! Let not
the literary talents of Davidson’s students mire in the vacuous pit of anonymity.

Readers, we implore you to contribute original compositions to the Davidsonian at the address listed. Let us not let another
Davidson tradition go down the tubes like ARA Slater.

Carl Elliott ’83
Ed Whitesides ’83

Hang on. Send your literary submissions to the Davidsonian office and tune in two weeks from now.

-Eds.

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from our readers. We try to print all letters that are of general interest, but we
adhere to these four guidelines:

1. We require that letters be in our hands by Tuesday 7 p.m.
2. We require that letters be neatly typed.
3. We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editor, Stewart Cauley.
4. We reserve the right not to print letters that (a) function as advertisements; (b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or
inside jokes; (c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in many other letters printed on the same topic.
We also reserve the right to condense very long letters.

The Davidsonian does not in any way endorse the opinions expressed in the letters we print.

NOMINATIONS ARE NOW BEING RECEIVED FOR THE GOODWIN-EXXON AWARD

The Goodwin-Exxon Award shall ordinarily be presented to one student from the sophomore class, one student from the junior class,
and one student from the senior class, chosen by a committee made up of students, faculty and administrative staff on
the basis of his or her quality of life in the campus community during the preceding year. The Goodwin-Exxon Award
is designed to recognize qualities other than unusual accomplishments in scholarship, leadership, and sports. Its purpose is to select students
who typify the kind of cooperative support of campus activities and warm, caring relationships with fellow students which many observers
have remarked upon as being important elements of the campus lifestyle at Davidson College. The award shall take the form
both of a plaque recognizing the recipient and of a cash grant, a part of which the individual is asked
to contribute to a charity of her/his choice.

To receive the Goodwin-Exxon Award a student should represent the highest standards of Davidson College in character, good sportsmanship, friendliness,
consideration for others, high ethical standards, faithfulness to duty, enthusiasm, tolerance and concern for the less fortunate. Last year’s recipients
were: Stokes Peeples, Leslie Mills, and Earl Wooten.

Nomination forms may be picked up in the Dean of Students Office, the Union desk, and the Library. Deadline is
October 22, 1982, at 5:00 p.m. Forms should be returned to the Dean of Students Office.

EARN CASH

THE DAVIDSONIAN/15 October 1982
