Union Board Policy Committee Redistributes Funds

In an effort to help out some of its financially-strapped committees, the Union Board Policy Committee last month redistributed the
appropriations for the Union committees.

The redistribution did not erase the projected shortfall, however. Union President Mike Goode said the Union must make up $3000
this term from admissions to Union events, such as Pop Films, Deathtrap, the touring play that performed in Love Auditorium
this week, and “through anything we can charge admission for.”

The redistribution was necessary because some committees had overspent their budgets during Fall and Winter terms. “We spent a lot
more money this year, fast,” Goode said. The College Bowl, Games, Fine Films, and Pop Films committees all had used
up their appropriations for the year, so the new chairmen who took over Spring term had no money to work
with, or even a debt. Fine Films and the President’s contingency fund were in the worst shape with $1250 and
$1137 debts respectively.

The Policy Committee redistributed the available money from the solvent committees to those in need of help. The largest contribution
was the Concert Committee. It had reserved $6522 for Spring term, but had about $2000 taken from its budget. The
Speakers committee budget was reduced by $600 to $3300. Union social Vice-president Danny Waddill said that most of the Speakers
budget was already committed, and therefore couldn’t be cut any more.

Goode said the Cultural Events committee was already committed to several productions, and needed $1400. Union Secretary-treasurer Buck Bradberry said
that the reallocation “called for a reassessment of the potential value of our programming to the campus, and a resolution
to maximize programming quality while minimizing its cost.”

The following committees had their budgets cut by the Policy Committee:
- Concert $2000
- Speakers $600
- Dance $250

These committees were helped by the reallocation:
- Cultural events $1400
- Intimate performance $700
- International $300
- Games $100
- Dorm social $90

by Jeffrey Mann ’84

Hit-and-Run

On March 18, a car belonging to campus security officer Sergeant Cook sustained about $500 damage in what is as
of yet a hit-and-run accident. Several students in Belk dorm heard the collision and yelled at what sounded to them
like a jeep to stop. The car was parked beside the carpentry shop behind Cannon dorm.

Cook said that several accidents like this happen every month. He encourages anyone who observes an accident to report the
car’s license number to campus security, if possible.

The Educational Policies Committee voted last Monday to adopt the SGA’s proposed alternative grading scale for discussion purposes until their
next open meeting this Monday at 4 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

The SGA proposal comes in response to the EPC’s earlier suggestion that minuses be added to our present grading scale.
Two student senators, Chip Hurley and Mark Oldenburg, used the College’s computer to predict the effect of minus grades on
school-wide GPA’s. Because minus grades would carry reduced points, their results showed that many students’ averages would suffer. The senators
then drew up this scale, which the EPC approved:

A: 4.00 / 93-100
A-: 3.75 / 90-92
B+: 3.50 / 87-89
B: 3.25 / 83-86
B-: 3.00 / 80-82
C+: 2.50 / 77-79
C: 2.25 / 73-76
C-: 2.00 / 70-72
D+: 1.50 / 67-69
D: 1.00 / 60-66

Under the newly proposed plan, GPA’s would stay nearly the same for students who make some low grades and some
high grades. Adding an A+ would create a 4.5 point scale, causing much more confusion than help. The SGA will
“support this wholeheartedly,” said freshman Senator Meg Surratt, if any change at all must be made.

The reason for the original EPC plan to add minuses was so that professors could distinguish fairly between a B-
and a B. Professor of Religion Max E. Polley, who serves on the committee of elected faculty and students, said,
“We had no interest in reducing GPA’s.” However, the petition signed by approximately 450 students last week in opposition to
any change shows that many students would rather leave the system as it has been for over 20 years.

If the EPC approves the SGA’s suggestion in their next open meeting on Monday (April 12), then the faculty will
vote either to accept or reject the point values of the letter grades. However, the meaning of letter grades will
always depend on the individual professor. There is no absolute numerical scale now; nor will the proposed plan become “binding
on the faculty member,” explained Professor Polley. Speaking for the EPC, he added, “We appreciate the SGA’s work.”

All students are invited to the EPC’s open meeting on Monday at 4 p.m. in the Gallery to ask questions,
make comments, or simply listen and learn.

Diana Bohrer ’85

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9 April 1982
