Volume LXXII, Number 17

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Defeat of the Faculty Tenure Committee: A News Analysis

The faculty last week roundly defeated the proposal for a Faculty Advisory Committee on Reappointment and Tenure. The vote of
37 for to 46 opposed was far wide of the 2/3 majority required to pass.

The proposed committee would have made a recommendation to the administration each time a faculty member was up for contract
renewal or tenure. Its recommendation would have been included in the Academic Vice President’s report to the President, and, in
the case of tenure decisions, in the President’s report to the Trustees.

Resistance at Davidson to such a committee is long-standing. A similar proposal was defeated three years ago. But this resistance
is unusual in national terms. According to Academic Vice President T.C. Price Zimmermann, such committees exist at most colleges like
Davidson.

Why is such a committee as proposed unacceptable to the Davidson Faculty? There is no one reason, according to English
Professor Tony Abbott. The proposal “got squeezed to death by a variety of different forces.” Hansford Epes, Chairman of the
Professional Affairs Committee (PAC), which drew up the proposal, said the reasons for its defeat were often “mutually contradictory.” Some
faculty members, for example, felt that the committee was unnecessary, while others felt it would not be strong enough.

The one point of universal agreement was that making decisions about reappointment and tenure is not pleasurable. A faculty committee
would spread the unpleasant responsibility around somewhat. “The President and I would have the comfort of sharers in the opprobrium,”
Academic Vice President T.C. Price Zimmermann said.

Older faculty members had “nothing to gain” from the proposal, Epes pointed out, but “the burden of serving on the
committees.”

“If the younger faculty don’t want it enough to vote for it, it is not our responsibility to push this
thing further.”

The disagreement seemed to boil down to the benefits and costs of having such a committee.

Some felt the benefits of a stronger mechanism for faculty voice in reappointment and tenure decisions outweighed any possible costs.

Faculty voice in appointment and tenure decisions was important, Abbott said, both because of the need for “participatory democracy” and
because a fairer judgment could be reached with faculty involvement.

Currently, the Academic Vice President and the President make tenure/reappointment decisions on the basis of a candidate’s file, a recommendation
from the candidate’s department chairman, letters of recommendation from other faculty members, and ICES student evaluation forms.

The “give and take” of a committee discussion could make interpretation of documents like the letters of recommendation and the
ICES forms more “objective,” Abbott said.

French Professor George Poe agreed. He said he would prefer to be evaluated by the “broader base” afforded by a
fac-

Continued on page 7

We apologize for the absence of last week's issue. Our Mergenthaler CRTronic Linotype machine broke down and took a road
trip to Atlanta, Ga.

Jerome Hay, C.K. Nichols, and Susan Roberts at the El Salvador Protest. See story inside.

El Salvador Protest in D.C.

Although members of the March 27 Coalition agree on their dissatisfaction with President Reagan’s El Salvador policy, they represented a
variety of conflicting interest groups.

According to official Coalition handouts, the Committee In Solidarity with the People of El Salvador (CISPES), the National Black United
Front, the American Indian Movement, Clergy and Laity Concerned, People’s Anti-war Mobilization, Committee Against Registration and the Draft, Women’s Pentagon
Action, Progressive Student Network, Mobilization for Survival, and Black Veterans for Social Justice sponsored the protest. But many more factions
showed up.

The handouts not only asked people to “stop the US war in El Salvador” but also to “unite against the
Reagan policy of oppression at home... Fund Jobs and Human Needs” and to say “No to the Draft! No to
racism! No to sexism!”

Davidson Coalition co-organizer Elizabeth Kiss admitted that “the numbers were impressive” but felt that in the protest itself, “there was
no sense of unity.” She also said that the demonstration was “not well organized” and there were “problems with the
speakers.”

During the preliminary rally at Malcolm X Park, speakers representing different interest groups fought for a place at the podium
while the crowd’s enthusiasm dissipated in the cold weather.

According to Davidson art professor Herb Jackson, who attended the protest, the March 27 Coalition scheduled speakers like “Cecil B.
DeMille managing a rally.” He also added that “the rally was like a big PTL Club meeting with the wrong
speakers” and that the button and tee-shirt vendors “were like hawkers at a state fair. A blight.”

One of the most frustrating mo-

Continued on page 30
