‘(My Favorite Year [1982—It’s 1954 in the movie] produced by Mel Brooks [yes—him again]; Directed by Richard Benjamin; starring Peter O’Toole, Mark Linn-Baker, Jessica Harper, Lainie Kazan, and Selma Diamond)

Rating: ****
Viewer’s guide: PG, profanity, adult situations

My Favorite Year, playing at the Southpark Cinema in Charlotte, is my favorite movie for 1982. It’s a consistently funny, often touching look at live television in the 1950s. Peter O’Toole as alcohol/sex-drenched matinee idol Alan Swann gives the performance of his career, and the supporting cast ain’t bad either. Lainie Kazan is most notable (and outrageous) as a Shelly Winters-Jewish mother.

The plot centers around the efforts of comedy writer Benjy Stone (really Steinberg—he changed it to get work) to keep Alan Swann, an Errol Flynn-esque swashbuckler, sober long enough to make an appearance on the TV show for which he writes, “Comedy Cavalcade” (a perfect imitation of that classic ’50s comedy program “Your Show of Shows”). However, as the movie hilariously proves, this is not humanly possible.

Director Richard Benjamin has a perfect feel for the '50s atmosphere as well as My Favorite Year’s subject matter. He takes this already clever comedy and gives it a big dose of humanity, somehow avoiding the syrupy sentimentality one has come to expect in a film like this. A beautiful moment comes when Swann goes to visit his obviously illegitimate daughter (whom he hasn’t seen in a year) but can’t get up the courage to get out of the car and talk with her. It’s a hauntingly effective moment. By the end of MFY, the viewer can safely say he likes Alan Swann and yes, even understands him, amid all his booze and women.

Peter O’Toole’s brilliant performance (which I’ll get to later) should not overshadow the equally fantastic supporting cast. The supporting players seem to have been born into their roles. Mark Linn-Baker (a Broadway performer—this his first Hollywood role) is perfect as the naive but worldly Benjy, Jessica Harper is funny as his bubbly girlfriend, and of course there’s Lainie Kazan. This is opera singer Kazan’s first try at film, and let us all pray it is not her last. She is downright hysterical as Benjy’s mom, trying to be sexy, motherly, and wise all at the same time.

After seeing MFY, one is tempted to say Peter O’Toole is the greatest actor alive. If O’Toole doesn’t win an Oscar this year for MFY, I will personally disavow the entire Academy organization. They have already stolen this prize from him three times: first offense—Lawrence of Arabia (1962); second offense—The Lion in Winter (1968); third offense—The Stunt Man (1980). Let’s not blow it this time, guys! Peter O’Toole is a real-life personification of the excessive Swann, so you won’t have him to foolishly ignore much longer. (In fact, it would be wrong not to give My Favorite Year the Best Picture award). Gee, with movies like E.T., The Road Warrior, Garp, and now My Favorite Year, 1982 is shaping up to be my favorite year for movies.

(Bullitt [1968] directed by Peter Yates; starring Steve McQueen, Robert Vaughn, Jacqueline Bisset, and Simon Oakland)

Rating: ***1/4
Viewer’s Guide: Violence of a pretty graphic sort

Bullitt, the chilling crime drama that put actor Steve McQueen on the map, is a movie to see. Not only does it have one of the most incredible car chases you’ve ever seen on film, Bullitt also contains Steve McQueen’s finest performance as a San Francisco cop who gets in up to his ravioli.in an evil Mafia plot. The film constantly moves and hits hyper-space in the climactic chase. Director Peter Yates, not usually known for his action flicks, takes first chair with Bullitt. Oh, and there’s also Jacqueline Bisset, way before she took off into stardom, and she’s, well, appealing.

(Oliver! [1968] Directed by Carol Reed; starring Ron Moody, Oliver Reed, and Mark Lester)
Rating: ***
Viewer’s Guide: Romper Room violence and language

Film Reviews with Matt Morris—
RATINGS SYSTEM:
**** Classic; a must-see movie.
***½ Very good; well worth it.
*** Good; no masterpiece but a fine show.
**½ Mixed bag; some good, some bad.
** Ugh! Pretty bad, but could have been worse.
*½ Total trash; don’t bother.
X Miss this film at all cost, or better yet catch a revival showing of “Attack of the Killer Tomatoes.”

Oliver!
The big movie hit in ’68 (with both the critics and the public) is liable to please anyone who likes musicals. It’s loaded with good songs: “Consider Yourself,” “As Long As He Needs Me,” etc.; great performances: Ron Moody as a nasty Fagin and charming direction by veteran Oliver Reed (The Third Man). Yes, for movie musical lovers, Oliver! is the movie to see. However, if you are like me and consider musicals on film inferior to those on stage, steer clear of Oliver!

Why do I bicker about movie musicals? Glad you asked. This past summer, I had a chance to see the movie Oklahoma! on the tube. I thought, “Oh goodie! Oklahoma! What culture!” Well, I can tell you I was severely disappointed. So disappointed, in fact, that I proclaimed Oklahoma! to be witless, phony Americana. Cut to two months later. A local theater group was putting on Oklahoma!, and I had two free tickets and a date (which is unusual for me). I decided to give it another try. When I got back from the stage production of Oklahoma!, all the tunes were cheerfully running around in my head, and I proclaimed it to be the greatest thing I’d ever seen. I’m looking for the soundtrack.

What’s the difference? Primarily in a stage play, the viewer suspends disbelief and doesn’t care, and he is indeed pleased when one of the characters bursts into song. Not so in movies, where everything is so incredibly realistic it is impossible (for me, anyway) to keep from snickering when some tiny kid sings “Consider Yourself” in the middle of a ghetto. But like I said, that’s just me, and heck, as a movie musical Oliver! ain’t bad. I’m still a bit peeved, however, that fine films didn’t get the original Oliver!, a non-musical starring the brilliant Alec Guinness. Now that was a fine film.

(Night of the Living Dead directed by George Romero; starring Judith O’Dea, Russell Streiner, Duane Jones)
Rating: ***½
Viewer’s Guide: the grossest, most disgusting, filthiest, and maybe scariest movie ever made

Hey kids! Amaze your friends! You too can tell them that you saw (or survived) Night of the Living Dead by merely coming to the Big Screen Room (free popcorn—weight watchers don’t worry: halfway through NOTLD nobody will be eating anything). Saturday morning at 1:00! It’s a real keen movie about these dead guys who start eating people! They just eat, eat, eat! Jeepers! They even munch on pretty Judith O’Dea! Gee! Somebody told me this movie was an experiment where the Commons gets the... Golly! I don’t even know what that means! But I do know He’s Hungry...

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 29 October 1982.