Canoeing in Wales

Last spring George Strickland took some time off from Davidson in order to pursue his old friend, the tandem closed-water
canoe. And in the process, he attained a notable achievement: he placed nineteenth in the world canoeing championships at Bala,
Wales.

During spring term last year, George and his partner, Rick Hill, trained outside of Washington. At the end of May,
they participated in the US team trials for the K1 (one-man kayak), the C1 (one-man canoe), the C2 (tandem canoe),
and the K1 for women. At the end of the spring competition, the top 15% of each class qualified for
the US team trials, which take place every other year on the last weekend in May. The Savage River in
Maryland and the Nantahala River in North Carolina were the two locations of last year’s contest. The trials consist of
racing through a slalom course of thirty 1.5-meter wide gates, which are suspended above the river. If a competitor touches
a gate, he is penalized by the addition of five seconds to his final time. If a canoeist misses a
gate, he is penalized by the addition of fifty seconds to his time.

George said, “We thought we had it the second day of the trials. We were way ahead, but we blew
our second run. Someone came from behind to beat us.”

George and his partner made the team on the last day of the trials to complete a squad of sixteen
boats (4 K1's, 4 C1’s, 4 C2’s, and 4 K1’s). “It was much too exciting,” said George.

The team then began training for the World Championships, which were held in Bala, Wales. After training in Canada and
in the Eastern United States, George and Rick flew to Wales. George said he was overwhelmed at the World Championship.
“It was a humbling experience,” he remembers. “We went over there thinking that we were ready for the Europeans, but
it was a new experience being thrown into international competition.” He continued, “The French were the best, and the Germans,
Czechs, and British had good teams. The French won 17 medals while the Americans won 15 medals.” George said, “Rick
and I were the fourth fastest boat in our class but we hit too many poles. That gave us 30
seconds in penalties and pushed us back to 19th place.” They also had another problem when George’s seat broke in
the midst of the competition. But George and his partner came back from Wales with the distinction of being nicknamed
the “roller derby pair,” because they held the record for rolling (that is, turning over and flipping back over). George
said that this summer he is going to compete in single paddling. If he does well, he may take off
two terms from Davidson next year so that he can continue to pursue his passion for canoeing.
