Opinions

Up to Elizabethan times, Ireland was almost exclusively Catholic. However, with English conquest and colonization, the immigration of English and Scottish Protestants was encouraged by the English government operating along plantation lines. It was hoped that these Protestant farmers would make Ireland more governable. It was mostly to the northeastern province called Ulster that these farmers went, and it is from this strategy of the English crown from 400 years ago that the present troubles stem. The rest of Ireland remained 98% Catholic.

Because Irish affairs were passed in Parliament in London, there grew up a sense of neglect where these interests and problems were concerned. In particular, land ownership was a significant issue. Over time, dissent grew, and by 1916 there had been numerous rebellions and uprisings. Demands for an Irish Parliament went unmet and finally culminated in the 1916 Easter Rising. Militarily, the rising was a complete failure, but the British reaction of executing the 15 leaders had the effect of galvanizing demands for independence. Sinn Fein (We Ourselves), a political party, harnessed this demand; it withdrew from the English Parliament and set up a popular government in Dublin. After two years of this, Britain gave in and granted freedom to Southern Ireland. The British held on to Northern Ireland, however, because Ulster contained over a million Protestants (descendants of the plantation owners and farmers) who supported a continued union with Britain.

That was 60 years ago. During this time, Catholics in Northern Ireland had been systematically discriminated against by the Protestant “Unionists.” By 1969, Catholics could not get fair housing or jobs and were not represented in local government. In this year, the Catholics held civil rights marches to demand reform. The marches were broken up by the police force, which was wholly Protestant. The Irish Republican Army, or I.R.A., was formed to defend the rights of Catholics out of the belief that democratic methods were useless. Although Unionists were defended by the police, the Ulster Defense Association, or U.D.A., was formed as an armed Protestant equivalent to the I.R.A. Both are illegal.

In 1969, the British government sent army troops to Ulster to keep the peace between the two violent factions. Thirteen years later, the two communities could not be more polarized. The British troops identified with the Unionists and came to be seen as an occupying army rather than a peace-keeping force by the Catholics. Now Catholics feel that they can only get fair treatment as part of a united Ireland. This the Unionists completely reject, insisting upon Ulster as a British province.

This stalemate is illustrated by the recent hunger strike which received so much international attention. Convicted members of the I.R.A. have always been held in special jails. Recently, they listed five demands for reforms in the treatment accorded to them. The British claimed that these demands amounted to “Prisoner of War” status for the I.R.A., which it could not give. These prisoners had a great deal of support among Catholics in the North, and one of them, Bobby Sands, was elected to serve in the British Parliament, winning 31,000 votes. The British were unmoved, afraid that P.O.W. status would give a legal front to the I.R.A. and so encourage even greater support. Sands refused all food, and every two weeks another prisoner began a hunger strike, waiting for the demands to be met. Many people believed that the British could have compromised and, without giving in to all the demands, could have reached a solution. But the British and the hunger strikers stood firm; Sands and nine others died of starvation before the protest was called off. There was no give or take on either side, each intent upon complete victory. As of now, there seems to be no solution. But, if the British want to retain...Northern Ireland is part of the United Kingdom, and it is their duty to offer a political initiative after thirteen years of bloodshed. If a million Protestants object to a United Ireland, fearing discrimination, then that alternative cannot be offered as a way out. On the other hand, as long as Catholics have grievances against the British government, there will be no peace. The longer the situation goes on, the harder will be the solution in coming. Many feel that the British troops should be withdrawn and a United Nations peacekeeping force set up. This would remove one of the main IRA targets. The hardest part, however, and the key to the problem, is a complete rebuilding of the community, starting from the grassroots in education right up to the local government councils. Again, this requires give and take by both factions. After over a decade of bloodshed, the people are tired; most of them long for reconciliation and peace. It's politics that holds this up.
by John Hackett

Photo by Anderson Scott ‘84

Ireland: The Troubles

Open House at Rusk

Last Thursday night, Rusk held an open house. The evening started at eight o’clock with a ladies’ lock-in during which they served beer and showed pornographic movies in the basement. After the movies ended, at nine-thirty, men were invited to join the party. Rusk did not organize this event exclusively for the members of their own house and their dates, but generously and selflessly opened it to the rest of the campus. Many people on campus obviously appreciated the party, as there was a good turnout.

I think Rusk should encourage the interest students have shown and offer more varied entertainment of this kind in the near future. I propose that at their next celebration they should begin with a period of socializing and drinking upstairs, and then the girls should take their partners down to the basement and actually satisfy their own needs and the needs of their partners. The party should again be opened to the campus to enable all those who do not have much opportunity for sexual expression to come and experiment. I, for one, am very excited by Rusk’s initiative to promote women’s interests at Davidson. Rusk must feel they are acting in response to a demand for greater sexual freedom on campus. All women have strong sexual desires that need to be fulfilled, but all too often we women have to stifle these desires, and this can lead to frustration. Rusk seems to be confronting these issues head-on and providing us all with a mature, honest, and open way to approach sex. Honesty is the key point. In our fears and preoccupations with sex, we all too often lose sight of honesty. Can we not be honest in expressing our desires and the true nature of our personalities? Rusk would be offering us a chance to proclaim our acceptance and our enjoyment of sex by freely and unashamedly sharing our bodies together in a group celebration. Let us no longer be furtive, let us no longer lock ourselves away in bedrooms, but let us openly advocate this sexual behavior and encourage everyone to share its benefits.

What a fine thing that the women of Rusk are eager to learn about the female body. Now let us encourage them to learn about men’s enjoyment of the female body. When Rusk arranges such a party, I hope that you will spend your time wisely and will come along to assist the stand that Rusk takes.
Ant Goode

DAVIDSONIAN
Friday 29 January 1982