It was another tough week for the Lady Cats, as they dropped three more games all by similar scores. They
lost to Furman at home 63-52, and Wofford and Greensboro on the road, 65-52 and 66-53. One minute out of
40 does not usually decide the outcome of a basketball game (unless of course it’s the last minute of a
very close game), but in the Lady Cats’ game against Furman last Wednesday night, one minute may just have made
the difference. The decisive time was the last 60 seconds of the first half. With 19 minutes gone in the
half, the Lady Cats trailed the Paladins by only nine points. Then disaster struck. The Cats simply couldn’t keep possession
of the ball. Every time they got it, they turned it over and Furman simply took it to the other
end and popped in another two. By the time that seemingly never-ending final minute was over, Furman had scored nine
unanswered points and doubled their lead to a very formidable 18 points. At half-time, the Lady Cats went into the
locker room trailing 33-15.

It was a regrouped Davidson team that took the floor in the second half, though, or there could have been
a real blowout. The Cats came out fired up and rebounding well. They held together, despite the fact that Mike
Frankhouser had to go to the bench with her fourth foul only 30 seconds into the half. With Sally Howell
and Ann Elliot pulling in the caroms and Mitzi Short and Mary Bondurant running the offense, the Cats whittled 10
points off the Paladin lead, to pull within 8 with 14:47 left. With Frankhouser back in the lineup, Davidson managed
to chop a few more points off the Furman lead, and with 8:35 remaining the score stood at 44-39. A
minute later, Mike fouled out on an offensive foul. But Howell and Elliot maintained control of the inside and with
6 minutes left in the game, the Cats were trailing by only 4 points. The teams went back and forth
for the next few minutes, and with 2 minutes remaining to be played, the Paladin lead still stood at four.
But then both Howell and Short fouled out and Furman pulled away to win by a final margin of eleven.
Davidson fought tough the entire game, especially the second half, but were just never able to overcome that horrendous final
minute of the first half when Furman had taken their commanding 18-point lead. Howell led the scoring for the Lady
Cats with 18 points, followed by Frankhouser with 12. Coach Dee Mayes commented, “I was pretty happy with the game.
It was very exciting being within 4 points so late in the game, but fouls hurt us at the end
and we lost by 11. We came very close to a good team, and showed that we can compete with
teams out of our league if we play well.”

Against Greensboro College it was a different story. Mayes said, “Greensboro was a team we should have beaten. We were
intimidated by their press and didn’t handle it well—they got 25 steals off of it. They also took twice as
many shots as we did—so we weren’t rebounding well either. Player for player I felt we were the better team.
I was disappointed with the loss because they were a team we should have beaten.” Mike Frankhouser led the Cats
in scoring that game with 23 points.

Against Wofford, the Cats held one of the biggest leads of the season, but unfortunately it didn’t last for long.
Mayes explained, “With 4 minutes left in the first half we went from being up by 14 points to down
by seven points. So we had to come back out in the second half and fight our way...Back after blowing
a lead. We did play better in the second half and pulled back to within 5 points at one time,
but we never made it all the way back.” Sally Howell was the leading scorer for the Lady Cats with
18 points. The Lady Cats play Wingate tomorrow night at 5 p.m. in the Charlotte Coliseum, and Bennett at home
Tuesday, Feb. 16, at 7 p.m.

by Kara Gilmore

Wildcat Ten Drop Two

The Wildcat Ten dropped two matches after ending up with a draw earlier in wrestling action this past week. On
Saturday, January 30, the ’Cats lost to Appalachian State and The Citadel 36-10 and 32-12, respectively. On January 26, Davidson
and Pfeiffer finished in a deadlock, 27-27. Two forfeits, in the 118 lb and Heavyweight classes, gave Pfeiffer the twelve
points necessary to tie.

In the Appalachian State and Citadel matches, the Wildcats got behind in the early matches and stayed there. Against Appalachian,
the Davidson points came from Tom Hissom’s 12-1 major decision of Marshall Clabiz, in the 177 lb class. Davidson also
won the 190 lb classification by forfeit. Against the Citadel, Davidson stayed close in the lighter weight classes. The Bulldogs
won the 118 class by forfeit, and Davidson took the next three weight classes. Freshman Tom Oddo decisioned Randy Muntz
in the 126 class, 7-3. Senior Scott Smith (134) beat Pat Neely 17-10, and Freshman Mike Keeley (142) knocked off
Mike Watkins 7-2. Hissom won a 16-11 decision over Mike Judy. The Citadel took the other matches and won the
heavyweight classification by forfeit.

“I was pretty pleased, overall, with our match against the Citadel,” said Coach Robert Estacks. “The last time we wrestled
them, we lost 51-0. I think we showed a lot of improvement.”

Against Pfeiffer, Davidson lost only three of ten matches, but the forfeits hurt the Wildcats. “I think we did really
well on the individual level,” said Estacks. “We lost the two matches by forfeit, but elsewhere we did pretty well.
I’m especially pleased with the job Tom Oddo did. He had wrestled Mike Patterson twice before and had lost both
times, but this time he came back and won a major decision (13-5).” In addition to Oddo, the Cats picked
up wins from Smith, who pinned Ken Campbell in 1:22, Sophomore John Breidenstine (150), who pinned John Mekwise in 0:55,
Chris Tiernan (158) who pinned Mike Simpson in 3:57, and Mike Herbert (190), who decisioned Scott Bridgeson 22-1.

The events of the past week left Davidson with a 3-6-1 record. Davidson went to Furman Wednesday night for a
match with the Paladins and this Saturday, Davidson hosts its eight-team dual tournament. This year the tournament guests are Catawba,
Pfeiffer, Elon, Barbara Scotia, Washington and Lee, Hampden-Sydney, and Lynchburg. The tournament is slated to begin at 9:00 A.M.

Scott Beaver ‘84

Addendum: The Wildcat team split matches at Furman, downing the Paladins 34-12, while being beaten by VMI 33-12. The Wildcat
team finished third in their tournament this past weekend. Davidson started out well enough by downing Hampden-Sydney 20-15. The Wildcats
then lost to eventual tourney champ Elon 26-12, but they rebounded to take a 30-18 decision over Pfeiffer. Wednesday night,
the Cats met Elon again and lost, this time 19-18. A forfeit in the 118-pound weight class proved to be
the difference between a win or a loss. In bouts actually contested, Davidson won four of nine, and got a
pin from Senior Scott Smith (134), and picked up decisions from Sophomore John Breidenstine (150), Freshman Mike Keeley (142), Sophomore
Tom Hissom (177), and Junior Stan Klinger (unlimited). Davidson’s record is now 7-9-1.
