**Booze Brothers Taken For Dead**

We would like to take this opportunity to formally apologize for the lack of a Booze Brothers article this past week. If you failed to notice its absence, then you either failed to read the paper, or didn’t give a damn about our column. Whatever the case, we really don’t care. We were DEAD. All we remember is going to the Grateful Dead concerts in Durham and Norfolk two weeks ago, having a great time, passing out and waking up this past Saturday and finding everybody gone. Nobody was here, we missed our rides home for Easter, we had nothing to do, it sucked, so we decided to tour the local bars and write up a report about our adventures.

First stop took us to The Pub Tavern, formerly The Corner, which was formerly The Rock ’n Roll Sunoco, which was, of course, preceded by The Sunoco Station. What it was before that is anybody’s guess. Chalmers Davidson claims it was formerly used as an overnight encampment for Peter Stuart Ney, but the present owner, not wishing to draw historical buffs to his establishment, flatly denies this claim.

If you’re looking for a classy “joint,” don’t go here, unless you’re a redneck (sorry, Mick). This place is a mixture of pool tables, pinball machines, dart boards and irritating, noisy, computerized quarter-swallowers. They don’t have happy hour, but beers are only 75¢ regularly so that’s no problem. We missed the hors d’oeuvres, but we understand they are served annually. If you want a six-pack to go, they’re only $3.50 and when you’re heading home to Beanville (i.e., Eastport M.H.P.) it beats the hell out of going to 7-11. Don’t bring your date to this fine establishment unless she “gets into” fights (if she does, the best brawls begin around 11:00). Also, forget picking up a wench down there, unless, of course, you want to pick up something else along with it.

Next stop on our journey brought us just down the road to The Anchor Tavern, which has always been The Anchor Tavern and always will be. If you’re not sure you’ve located the right place, check the front door; Dr. Winkler’s office hours are posted on it. The atmosphere here is “intimate” and provides a nice setting for a mean drink. Beers are again 75¢, but Leo, the owner, offers a great 80¢ special on 16 oz. beers. Various sandwich items are offered, prices are reasonable and the food is good. Their breakfasts beat the hell out of the snack bar’s and you don’t even have to stand in line.

The next watering hole we visited was Par-3, you know, the Union 76 station next to the Ice Company. Well, there are not a whole lot of good things we can say about this place. When we went there it had just changed hands, had lots of beer, but lacked one thing, a beer license to sell it. They had two pool tables and no other amusement except a boob tube. We understand this place attracts a lot of Davidson ladies on ladies’ night, but when questioned, the Rusk girls said they’d been invited, but insisted none had ever attended. We’re not surprised.

We hunted for a new spot to drop into, but came up empty. We contemplated visiting the 900 Room, but it was after 11:30 p.m. and we were sure they had already made last call. Upon returning home, we wrote up this article and have now decided to pass out. If no article appears next week (yawn), please send someone by Lafferty House to check on us; we’d hate to miss graduation.

Disco Update: Well, we woke up a couple of hours Thursday and decided to GO DISCO. Chunk and Ace tried their best, but there just wasn’t anyone on campus. So they gave up and joined us at Digg’s house for a party.

Jim Troutman ‘82 and Jimmy Hawk ‘82

ON ACA Accredited camp specializing in water sports with added emphasis on land sports, is looking for potential counselors of boys and girls between the ages of 18 and 25 as counselors. Male counselors must have the ability to teach in one or more of the camp activities.

Camp Thunderbird

GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY SUMMER SCHOOL

Interpretation and Translation Institute

Government/Business/Internships

Language courses

English as a Foreign Language

Writers Conference

Washington Laboratory

College Preparation

Over 200 graduate and undergraduate courses

Sessions: Pre—May 24-June 18

First Session—June 9-July 13

Eight-week Cross Session—June 9-August 4

Six-week Cross Session—June 28-August 6

Second Session—July 14-August 17

ABROAD
Dijon, France - French
Leningrad, U.S.S.R. - Russian
Oxford, England - Business Administration
Quito, Ecuador - Spanish
Fiesole, Italy - Italian
Trier, West Germany - German
Italy, Christian Archeology Fieldtrip
Greece, Life and Thought in Ancient Greece
Wales, Literary Tour

SEND MORE INFORMATION
Name:
Address:

Washington, DC 20057

Georgetown University is an equal opportunity employer and admits students of any race, color, and national or ethnic origin.