= Record reviews with Jon Glance.

Romeo Void

Never Say Never

One of the most intriguing new bands from San Francisco is the quintet known as Romeo Void, an alternately ephemeral and hard-rocking band whose new EP, “Never Say Never,” extends the territory covered in “It’s a Condition,” their debut album. Most of the songs deal with love (unrequited and otherwise) and isolation, in a way which really pulls the listener into the music. Rather than detached coolness, the music exudes a white heat of passion.

The most outstanding element of the music at first listen is the distinctive singing of lead vocalist Debora Iyall, whose tonal modulations and conversational style recall Yoko Ono and even New York No Waver Lydia Lunch (formerly with Teenage Jesus and the Jerks, now with Eight-Eyed Spy), though only retaining a fraction of the latter’s brittle atonalities. Her voice can both soothe the listener in the more trance-like passages as well as cut through the background with a sarcastic knife. Ms. Iyall’s backing band is also excellent throughout, providing a tense arena for her verbal sparring. Saxophonist Benjamin Bossi particularly excels, his instrument escaping the usual power pop guitar-bass-drums combination, the tenor sax arcing and ripping by turns.

The most impressive song on the EP, and possibly the darkest, is the title cut: “Never Say Never.” The galloping bass and drums are first augmented by a scratching, enveloping guitar, before the haunted, haunting lyrics exclaim “Time itself was history/There’d be no sunlight/Or a glimmer of sunlight landing on the street/Some say girls must be discreet.” The abstruse imagery continues “Some say girls must be discreet/Nursing their fathers locked inside/They masquerade as his bride./I might like you better if we slept together/But there’s something in your eye that says maybe, let’s never/Never say never.”

This isolated plea from one of the wounded in the sexual revolution epitomizes the power of this band as spokesmen for the darker side. But the fact that life must continue on is echoed in the brisk hook which punctuates the refrain.

The other songs on the EP (perhaps significantly produced by The Cars’ Ric Ocasek) reaffirm the pulsing sense of life found in the first song. Rather than join the mechanical detachment of the New Romantics, Romeo Void has taken the stance of enthusiasm in rock and roll. Although such titles as “In the Dark” and “Not Safe” may conjure up a film noir-like image of hopelessness and danger, the music denies and redefines the image; for example, on “In the Dark” the guitarist plays a line which would sound at home in the surf-rock of the Ventures. This teasing wit enables Romeo Void to deal with serious issues without losing sight of the basic humor of life. “Never Say Never” is a fine EP by a truly up-and-coming group with a lot of potential for success. If their bounce and trance-rock repertoire continues to progress, you may hear much more of them in the future.

Jon Glance

SMITHS:

Last Thursday and Friday, a fifth-century Roman comedy played before sell-out audiences. The play was Miles Gloriosus or The Braggart Warrior, the winter mini-major drama production. Visiting Assistant Professor of Humanities Dr. Christopher Frost directed the production.

Miles Gloriosus offered students a rare opportunity to see an ancient play as something more than a text to be studied. “Ancient plays are not often performed except as museum pieces,” Dr. Frost commented. In this production, however, Dr. Frost and the cast did “our best to bring out the vigor of the play,” he said.

Dr. Frost acted as a visiting director for Miles Gloriosus. He had done some directing before he came to Davidson, and he had been wanting to direct a production that the Theatre Department supported. He was the ideal director because of his Classics background and because it “would give students an opportunity to work with other people,” Theatre Professor Rupert Barber said.

Miles Gloriosus, like other Roman comedies, is rather typecast. The actors, therefore, had to add their own individual flavor to fill out the characters. Sophomore Suzann Smith, who played Milphidippa, said “the script wouldn’t carry it” since “the lines are antique.” Consequently, “the characters had to be vivid.” She commented that most of the actors represented two different personalities to the other characters during the course of the play. In addition to their primary personality, most characters had masks which they put on to deceive the Braggart Warrior. Suzann enjoyed “having the chance to perform two roles in front of an audience.” In addition, she “liked the opportunity to be a total ham and have it accepted.”

Dr. Frost commented that “I have always felt that there is an unnecessary stupid division between academia and the arts. It has been very good for me as a Classicist to come to the Theatre department and direct plays.” He feels that the best way to preserve Classical plays is to produce them. Aside from other benefits, however, “nicest of all is just the working atmosphere” of the Theatre Department, Dr. Frost said.

Anne Goodwin ‘84

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 29 January 1982

FLOWERS

302 Smith Circle
Cornelius, ph. 892-8856

The Hair Cottage

Creative hair cutting for men and women

Owner/stylist: Jane Schenck

1757 E. Rocky River