continued from preceding page

Resisters are obtained by matching Selective Service registration lists with Social Security Administration files. IRS then mails the letters. The
first mailing has been sent to 33,000 men. Roscoe L. Egger Jr., Commissioner of IRS, has said IRS only plans
to turn over 200 addresses to Selective Service out of those who don’t respond to the warning letter because it
seems unlikely the Justice Department would prosecute more than that number.

“People who receive these letters, or have questions concerning non-registration clearly need more information which CCCO can give them,” attorney
Feldman said. CCCO has started a list of persons interested in non-registration issues, to which the organization sends out regular
bulletins on developments in the area of non-registration. According to the General Accounting Office, over 700,000 men have not registered.
“We believe many are refusing to sign up as a protest to war and American militarism,” Feldman said.

At this time the federal government has indicted only eight people for refusal to register. The government is currently only
charging non-registrants who have turned themselves in, as the eight above. Warning letters from the Justice Department have been sent
to some non-registrants turned in to the government by private individuals.

The Central Committee for Conscientious Objectors was formed in 1948 and has a network of 2,500 counselors around the country
who counsel individuals on the draft, registration, and conscientious objection. CCCO also helps people in the military who are looking
for discharges and does pre-enlistment counseling, telling people considering the military the other side of the story from that which
is given in the recruitment ads.

Tis the Season for SWEATERS

Come see our selections

v necks
crew necks
vests
cardigans

by Cox Moore
Lord Jeff
IZOD and others

Come browse and see our campus clothes
Women’s wear, too

John Mack & Son
Downtown Mooresville
(only 6 miles north)

I HAVE ARRIVED AT THE COPELAND HOUSE 305 N. Main St.

Ratliff Elected to Bread Board

Charles E. Ratliff Jr., a long-time social activist, chairman of the economics department at Davidson College, was elected Tuesday to
the board of directors of Bread for the World, a Christian citizens’ movement which lobbies Congress for legislation to reduce
world poverty.

As one of the 42 board members, Ratliff will help direct the action of the group’s 36,000 members. Local chapters,
including one in Charlotte and an affiliate group in Davidson, meet monthly to educate members to human needs, government policy
and to plan letter writing and telephone lobbying campaigns directed toward congressmen.

“U.S. government foreign aid policies are primarily determined by strategic and economic interests,” Ratliff said. He explained that Bread for
the World is working to change that through its current sponsorship of the Hunger and Global Security bill.

Last year it won passage of a bill which enacted a four-million-ton emergency wheat reserve, as well as emergency food
aid to Cambodia, East Africa, and other countries.

“It’s in the self-interest of the United States to work to eliminate world hunger because it’s a military and economic
threat to our domestic security,” said Ratliff. “American people strongly support private relief efforts such as CARE, OXFAM and church
projects, but the government has a miserable record of aid to poor nations.”

Ratliff’s involvement with Bread for the World dates back to its founding by its current executive director, Arthur Simon, in
the early 1970s.

Ratliff had recently returned from spending two years in Pakistan, a country where two-thirds of the citizens suffer from protein
deficiency, where he served with the United Methodist Board of Global Ministries. His work there included teaching economics at Forman
Christian College and participating in rural development projects.

“I came back to this country very aware of the need for action to eliminate hunger not only by church
groups, but through the public sector as well,” he said.

Ratliff graduated from Davidson in 1947 and began teaching here the same year. He later earned A.M. and Ph.D. degrees
from Duke University. A 1971 “Outstanding Educator of America,” he received Davidson’s top teaching prize, the Thomas Jefferson Award, in
1972. He has published several books on taxes and public finance, and scores of articles for trade journals. His name
is included in “Who’s Who in America,” “Who’s Who in the World,” “American Men of Science,” and “Contemporary Authors.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 5 November 1982
