It’s a perfect match: the expressive dances of avant-garde choreographer Twyla Tharp, and the evocative music of David Byrne, the
most loquacious Talking Head. The fruit of their collaboration is “The Catherine Wheel,” a recent Broadway dance production, and the
first major work commissioned by a dance company from a member within the “popular” band Talking Heads.

The score for “The Catherine Wheel,” David Byrne’s first true solo project, exhibits the same predilection for dance rhythms evident
within two previous creations involving Byrne: Talking Heads’ last album, “Remain in Light,” and “My Life in the Bush of
Ghosts,” a collaboration between Byrne and Brian Eno. Like those two albums, “The Catherine Wheel” is heavily influenced by African
tribal rhythms; to lend legitimacy to the current work, Byrne has enlisted the musical assistance of John Chernoff, a professor
of ethnomusicology at Northwestern University. Chernoff contributes percussive sounds throughout the score and also provides the traditional African rhythms upon
which many of the selections are based.

The idea of using Byrne’s music for a dance production was an inspired one; its intricate polyrhythms make it eminently
suitable for this sort of treatment. Byrne’s music and Tharp’s choreography share another attribute which makes them particularly complementary of
one another: both present aggressive, primal elements within the context of a futuristic aesthetic strongly shaped by modern technology. This
dichotomy of primitivism and mechanization creates a provocative tension of sound and movement which effectively captures the depersonalization and malaise
of modern society.

All this merely serves as background for this current review, which, of course, must deal simply with the recorded portion
of “The Catherine Wheel.” Without its visual aspect, “The Catherine Wheel” stands on its own as one of the most
enjoyable collections of music ever released upon the popular market. It is an infectious and imaginative work which constantly explores
new frontiers of sound. Hearing the score makes one hunger to see the dancing which it is meant to accompany,
but it is easy to imagine the sort of movement such urgent music might impel.

While the album jacket lists a “cast” (mostly members of a typical household), only a quarter of “Catherine’s” score contains
lyrics, and these are sung by Byrne himself rather than the dancers. It is hard to decipher from Byrne’s abstruse,
impressionistic lyrics exactly what a Catherine Wheel is; it seems to be a symbol for the modern family, in which
the “bride and the groom run in a circle around their house.” It also is apparently the name of the
huge structure which dominates the set for the stage production.

The other three-quarters of “The Catherine Wheel,” the instrumental portion of the work, provides the most exciting moments of listening.
On tunes such as “Wheezing,” “Leg Bells” and “Dense Beasts,” Byrne’s unusual use of relatively normal instruments leads him to
list them in the credits as “beasts, floating guitars, prophet scream and horses.” Also present are sounds not often found
on a popular recording, such as kitchen metals, water pot, gung gong and double-belled euphonium. Byrne integrates every element into
a complex latticework of syncopated sound which is both physically and intellectually stimulating.

For some strange reason, probably commercial, Sire Records has chosen to release “The Catherine Wheel” in two different versions: a
single record album containing all the songs from “The Catherine Wheel” plus a few instrumentals, and a cassette tape containing
the complete 73-minute score from “The Catherine Wheel,” instrumentals and all. The resulting difference in the juxtaposition of selections effectively
creates two different works. Because of the relative absence of instrumental interludes on the album, it is more readily accessible
to a mass audience, and contains a larger proportion of material similar to pre-“Remain in Light” Talking Heads. The cassette
version is ultimately much more satisfying; not only does it contain some of the most intriguing music from “The Catherine
Wheel,” but it also creates a more affecting aura due to a better balance of vocal and instrumental selections. In
the context of the entire score, which concludes in the same way as the condensed version, the relatively straightforward finale
is purging rather than disappointing.

“The Catherine Wheel’s” limited run on Broadway denied most of us the opportunity to experience the work in its complete
manifestation. Perhaps it will eventually be performed on tour by the Twyla Tharp Dance Company, or filmed for posterity and/or
wider distribution. In the meantime, at least we have this wonderful aural document of a unique milestone in the history
of modern dance.

by Jan Weller
