Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

To the Editor:

I found Frazier Worth’s article of February 5 entitled “Porn Reflects A Political Blindness” both sensitive and appropriate. As a member of Rusk, I freely admit that the showing of pornographic films is an insensitive and senseless activity for any organization to sponsor. I would like to stress, however, that Rusk did not show the films with malicious intent or, as Ant Goode suggested three weeks ago, as a means “to explore our sexual desires.” Rather, the films were shown in an attempt to bring together women on campus for a casual evening. Although I did not choose to attend the function, a good many women did (around 100, I believe) and it is my impression that no one paid much attention to the films at all, but enjoyed the few hours of jokes and chatting secluded from the rest of the campus. This was the good intent with which the function was sponsored.

Again, Mr. Worth’s article makes a relevant point: regardless of the intent behind the screening of the films, the fact remains that it was a highly insensitive and “politically unaware” thing to do. By the same token, however, take note of the activities which Rusk sponsors that more clearly show the true nature of the women in the house and point to the presence of a “political awareness” among us: last spring, a free carnival for the children of Davidson; in the fall, our donation of hours to help deliver “Meals on Wheels” and our participation in the CROP fast; just last Friday, a Dance-A-Thon which raised over $750 to send to Davidson students in Kenya.

In my opinion, we made a mistake in showing pornographic films three weeks ago, but I believe it is unfair to judge our organization by an isolated incident.

Betsy Thomas, '82

---

To the Editor:

I would like to commend Steve Soud on his article “From the Locker Room” (Davidsonian; Feb. 5). It is truly one of the better articles I have read in the Davidsonian this year. His basketball coverage has expressed a concern for the team that appears to be lacking in the rest of the student body. I don’t think he could have come up with a better description of Davidson’s fans (if that is what they can be called). And the participation at our biggest game of the year (against UT-C) was the worst display of team support I have ever seen.

What’s the matter with you people out there? Basketball is an audience participation sport, but that would never be evidenced in Johnston Gymnasium. Basketball games may as well be included in the Artists’ Series.

I believe it was Al McGuire that said the home court is worth at least two points. He obviously hasn’t been here. Are the people here too uptight or something? Those who are eager to speak out in a Humes discussion just clam up when the Cats need them. And the Cats need them. I see few excuses in not being able to walk 500 yards to the gym and raising hell for two hours. It’s the best free entertainment around. And believe me, it’s not a violation of the Code of Responsibility to yell when an opposing player is shooting a foul shot; and VMI is the worst team in the league, so they’ve locked up the Sportsmanship Award. Now let’s get out there and support the team. They deserve it.

Steve Shield, '83

---

To the Editor:

Sometime between last Friday and Sunday evenings, most of my street clothes were stolen from my gym locker. I have enough trouble making and keeping friends when I can change clothes every few days. And with this ridiculous Bo-ho column I have to write, I have to do all I can to fight certain stereotypes. The locker room door was locked during Saturday’s game, so...the ugly possibility that a member of the local community is guilty raises its head higher. There already has been plenty said about honor code problems. I’ll not add to that. But if anyone knows anything or feels guilty, I can be reached at -6562. Or leave anything with 630 on it in the Davidsonian office or ATO. Love, John Hartman

To the Student Body:

We would like to apologize for the damage done to the wall in the 900 Room on Saturday, January 9th. It is unfortunate that we did not realize how easily this matter could have been dealt with earlier.

D. W. Donahower ’83
A. P. Smith ’83

Dear Editor:

This is a letter to encourage some good, old-fashioned carpooling. During our many trips to the Charlotte Airport, we never fail to pass several almost empty cars, with Davidson stickers proudly displayed, going our same direction. What bothers us is not that we — Piedmont locals who never get to fly anywhere — have to make the trip, but that so many people make unnecessary, often inconvenient, trips when so many others are going anyway. The SGA Rides Committee urges anyone who is going to the airport, and more important anyone who is returning after Break, to sign the list in the lobby of Chambers so that those needing a ride may get in contact with them.

Tracy Thompson ’83
Craig Detweiler ’85

Letter to the Editor:

I would like to add an explanation to my opinion of last week concerning Professor Hess’s talk. First and foremost, my editorial was only a criticism of the last part of Professor Hess’s talk. In fact, the point of his talk was not to condemn our President though he admits a dislike of current US Policy. Professor Hess spoke in response to a previous discussion that favored a Malthusian “response” to third-world problems. Professor Hess pointed out that there are signs of hope in the Third World and we should not abandon these countries. He based his optimism on the decline of both death and birth rates in the Third World. He then went on to point out ways these countries and developed countries could alleviate the problems of population control and hunger in the Third World. Professor Hess convincingly pointed out the need for stronger market forces in the poorer countries and what the Third World governments could do for themselves. Professor Hess and I disagree, however, on how the developed world should respond; I agree with Reagan’s approach, he does not. I am also in obvious disagreement with Elizabeth Kiss’s article but should not have phrased my criticism in such a sarcastic way. I remain a capitalist, Reaganite, supporter of Nestles and all multinational corporations. I also pray to the God of the marketplace (the invisible hand) every night.

William Bargmann ’82

To the Editor:

Journalistic sensationalism sounds like a foreign disease; we thought we had escaped from it, but unfortunately, the virus even pervaded the confines of the Davidsonian office. It reared its ugly head in last week’s article, “International Committee Confusion,” but we offer a remedy—some true, concise and constructive opinions about our role on campus. Davidson emphasizes a need for awareness and interest in world affairs. This is one of the reasons why “the dang furners” are invited to study and participate in campus life; and to be seen “in the flesh.” Much has been achieved in recent years as shown by an increasing diversity of international degree candidates, an ever-growing enthusiasm for J.Y.A. schemes, and cultural trips abroad. The new international committee is another manifestation of that interest and enthusiasm for all things international on campus. We support the committee as a beneficial way of pooling substantial resources. We also thoroughly support its goals. To reiterate what might have been obscured last week: “Its tripartite functions are to help returning J.Y.A. students to readjust to campus life and share their expe-

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982