CWS OTts Mele Wins Prize for Philosophy Paper

Dr. Alfred R. Mele, assistant professor of philosophy and humanities, has received the $100 Richard M. Griffith, Ph.D., Memorial Award
from the Southern Society for Philosophy and Psychology for a paper titled “Aristotle on the Justification of Ends.”

Since he completed his Ph.D. thesis on “Aristotle’s Theory of Human Motivation” at the University of Michigan in 1979, Mele
has published six articles concerning Aristotle’s moral psychology and ethics in some of the leading philosophical journals in America and
Canada. Five other articles, including papers on “the philosophy of mind” and philosophical psychology, are currently being considered for publication.

Mele explained that “Aristotle on the Justification of Ends” attacks the widely-held view that the Greek philosopher maintained it was
impossible to justify ethical ends, especially ultimate ethical ends such as happiness.

Mele graduated from Wayne State University in Michigan in 1973. He held a teaching fellowship at the University of Michigan
for three years while a graduate student there before he came to Davidson in 1979.

A Davidson Day On the Town

Davidson’s Annual Town Day will be held tomorrow, May 1, from 11:30 a.m. until mid-afternoon on the town green. A
carnival for all, Town Day will entertain kids, students, and townspeople with a variety of music, food, exhibits, and people.
Commencing at 11:30 a.m. with a parade featuring Sunday folk, Davidson Town Day will be a great way to while
the sunny hours away.

Music entertainment will include the Nasty Rathole Band and various wind ensemble groups. There will also be many booths where
you can test your skill at prize games. All during the afternoon, there will be concessions and bake sales. An
ice cream social will happen at 2:00 in the afternoon also. There will be exhibits such as Marsha Summers' Third
World Crafts and others. On Friday afternoon, the balloon ride, which was raffled to benefit the new town softball field,
will launch the festivities early. Town Day is a unique time to interact with townspeople and kids.

Commons, Court Consider Bulk Buying

The College Dining Service is currently “exploring with the [Patterson Court] houses the possibility of setting up a bulk buying
system,” said Dining Service Director Carleton Pritchard. If enacted, the plan would begin next year. Under the proposed system, the
Court houses and the Commons would pool their monthly orders for canned goods and staples. Companies would submit bids for
the entire order, but still deliver to and bill the individual houses. This plan is still very tentative, Pritchard cautioned.

Pritchard said at least six houses would have to commit to the system in order to generate enough volume to
make it feasible. The Commons and the Court began a cooperative venture of sorts last February with a milk deal.
The Commons and five houses agreed to buy milk products from Sealtest under an exclusive contract. ATO has since dropped
out of the system because they have cut back their milk consumption to two gallons per week according to ATO
President Jeff Herrin. However, the proposed bulk buying arrangement is “nothing like” the milk deal because it involves open bidding
which is “much more complex,” Pritchard said.

Jeff MannDAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 30 April 1982

The Commons: Food and Work Go Together

The Vail Commons is now “the primary source of work for students not supported by work grants,” according to Food
Services Director Carlton Pritchard.

Last fall, Pritchard anticipated employing 20-25 students at the College Commons. But since then, the student workforce has mushroomed. The
Commons now employs sixty students, and Pritchard intends to increase that number to seventy-five by next year.

Pritchard uses Davidson students in all areas of food service. Students work in the kitchen, the dish pantry, the serving
line, and at the cashier’s desk. He also employs students in catering and management. The administration does not require Pritchard
to employ as many students as he does. He simply feels that the Commons’ primary role is “to serve students.”
Student manager Eric Sorenson agrees: “He (Pritchard) is very receptive. He tries to cater to students.”

Student wages average about $3.40 an hour, and cumulative incomes range from $632 to $2500 during the 31-week service year.
“It (a job at the Commons) provides non-work study students with an opportunity to work,” says freshman Commons employee Barry
Elledge. “It’s especially helpful for students who don’t qualify for financial aid but still need it.”

An attractive feature about the job for most students is that they get to be with other students and serve
their friends. According to Elledge, this situation comes in handy: “It keeps us from messing in the mayonnaise,” he said.

Eric Sorenson heads the whole student organization, which includes supervisors Ben Dishman, Ari Crenshaw, Steve Gray, John McDowell, Lynne Rogich,
Philip Gerdes, Dave Evans, and John Verdi. Sorenson works thirty hours a week and is in charge of hiring, firing,
and training. “I’m like a mediator between the student workers and the professionals,” he says. Sorenson also disciplines unmotivated workers
and mollifies dissension between supervisors and students.

David Resnik ‘85

Next Year’s Housing

The waiting lists for on-campus or perimeter housing are posted in Belk Lounge. Student Housing Director Bill Bolding said that
he expects no problem finding rooms for the men’s waiting list, but that there may not be enough rooms for
women available.

Twenty to twenty-five men and eight to twelve women usually move off campus after the lottery each year. Bolding said
that the women’s housing situation depends upon the status of Park Place next year. The administration has plans to convert
it to faculty housing next year, Bolding said, and he has requested that it be available for student use because
of the shortage of rooms. College President Dr. Spencer will make the decision regarding Park Place. He was not available
for comment.

Bolding said that students will be notified of rooms as they become available throughout the summer. Every person on the
waiting list last year was offered an on-campus room before the beginning of the fall term, he added.

There are 14 pairs and 8 students without roommates on the men’s waiting list for double rooms and eleven on
the men’s singles waiting list. Fourteen pairs and 4 girls without roommates are waiting for women’s doubles, while 4 girls
are waiting for singles.

Pete Gulyn ’83
