e e This week the B.B. floated into the “Cinema ’n’ Draft-
house,” at East Independence and Albemarle Road, to
see “Author! Author!” in this enjoyably uncommon theat-
er. We were initially greeted by a tuxedo-clad ticket lad
who welcomed us into their suspiciously non-red theat-
er for an entrance fee of $1.00. A mildly unfamiliar
lobby area includes a TV viewing amphitheater and a
couple of video two-bit eaters. The popcorn scent was
all that kept us from scanning for a dance floor and D.J.
as we joined the completely casual two-tier lounge
Cinema ’n’ Drafthouse environment. Individual Jetson-chairs grouped around
private tables offered controllable space for film view-
ing and food and drink consumption, and deliveries
were made by Danskin darlings for reasonable fares.
Available beverages include Michelob and Michelob
Light for $4.50 a pitcher, seven brands of wine ($1.25
a glass, $4.75 a carafe and up to $8.00 a bottle) and the
usual selection of soft drinks. Sampled edibles in-
cluded Hero sandwich, Cinema Chicken, Roast Beef
sandwich and Super Sausage. Priced at $2.50 per, with
side orders of popcorn, we considered these no-frill
servings to be healthy snacks.

The main theme of this brilliant cinema cum bar
cum restaurant is freedom. You can smoke, drink, put
your feet up and basically kick back while the film runs
its course. The Cinema ’n’ Drafthouse seats a maxi-
mum of 225 at one time and is busiest during the Satur-
day night 9:45 showing.

The lounge atmosphere peaks between viewings as
WLUV-FM provides audio for two slide projection
screens which, though not functioning on our visit, dis-
play classic film pix.

Films are run for one week, beginning on Fridays.
Films may be viewed seven nights a week at 7:30 p.m.
and 9:45 p.m. with midnight showings on Friday and
Saturday. Scheduled to play are: Animal House, 24
September; Star Trek II, October 1; A Midsummer
Night’s Sex Comedy, October 8; Things Are Tough All
Over, October 15; and Poltergeist, October 22.

We very much enjoyed our evening at Cinema ’n’
Drafthouse but would not recommend this particular
theater house for serious film patrons, as violations of
traditional theater etiquette are not actively discour-
aged.

Interests in hiring Cinema ’n’ Drafthouse for pri-
vate functions are directed to Tracy and/or Steve at
535-8333.

Joe Jaworski and John Verdi

Continued From Page 6

Alan J. Singerman

Packed away somewhere in the jumble of boxes in
his office is a copy of Hesse’s Narcissus and Goldmun-
d—a book, says Dr. Alan Singerman, that “everybody
ought to read.” Singerman, who served as visiting as-
sociate professor of French at Davidson in 1980-81, is
still in the process of setting up shop, returning as a res-
ident associate professor in French.

A graduate of Ohio University, Singerman has
taught French at the University of Maine at Orono
since 1968 and has studied at the Sorbonne and the
University of Strasbourg in France. He received his
master’s and doctoral degrees from Indiana Universi-
ty.

At the age of 14 he realized what he calls a “mysti-
cal attraction” for the French language—inspired by
the “Three Musketeers and Casanova complexes.”
Defying parents and school authorities who wanted
him to study Latin, he enrolled in a French class and
began a love affair with the language that extends
beyond the classroom to his French wife Veronique.

An accomplished fencer, Singerman hopes to assist
Sterling Martin with a fencing class in the winter.

Anne Lambert ’86

THE DAVIDSONIAN/September 24, 1982 | 9