Double Minority

On being a black woman at Davidson

By JANET STOVALL ’85

“. . .the sound of my woman calling me,
me, I heard her call for help, I heard
that mournful sound but hung my head
and failed to heed it, I heard my wom-
an’s cry, I heard my woman’s scream. . .
I heard my women die, I heard the
sound of her death, a snapping sound, a
breaking sound . . . the ultimate sound,
the sound of death . . .”

—Eldridge Cleaver

The primeval scream of the black
woman can be heard distinctly at David-
son, by those who choose to listen. It is
a cry for identity, for freedom, for the
right to be who she is and who she wants
to be.

As a black woman at Davidson, I am
very confused. Just what do I have to be
in order to survive? For decades the
black woman has been typecast as su-
per-sensual Amazons, fit for no more
than some man’s bed wench. Don’t be
deceived by appearances to believe that
all is well, that Davidson somehow re-
mains unsullied while being surrounded
on all sides by a mire of prejudice and
stereotypes. Prejudice at Davidson is
subtle: it’s the kind that wraps itself
around you in a sly, serpentine way and
then bites ever so quickly, ever so fatal-
ly. None would dare openly express a
hatred for me as a black woman, but
many have done just that in other ways.
I wrote a poem once—just a few words
that worked their way from heart to pen,
to Davidson. Believing, foolishly, that
academic excellence and intelligence
led naturally to open-mindedness, I sub-
mitted the poem to Hobart Park. It won
first place, but nobody really under-
stood it—so they did the most natural
thing: they passed judgment. And the
more common decision was that the
poem was wrong, that it was bad.

What confused me was the irony of it
all. In my poem, I adapted the stereo-
types to a different ideal—I suddenly
realized that I could be a woman of
heightened sensuality while still being a
woman of substance. I had deserted the
age-old war of black women against ste-
reotype and raised a new battle cry. I
realized that I could be all the things I’d
been typecast as, and more, without
shame. I had learned through the suffer-
ings of a black woman to be a total
woman—and the ancient stereotypes
began to ring as praises. So, I wrote the
poem to tell Davidson about the revela-
tions I experienced. The hatred that
poem unleashed rang as a death knell to
much of the creative within me.

Even before the poem’s publication, I
had to deal with white men who ap-
proached me believing it a given that I’d
accept them. A black woman doesn’t
know what to believe of a white man—
if he is interested in her because of
who she is, or if he is looking to test “the
myth.” But those who approached me
openly were at least men. There were
others, emasculated cowards and pure
blind fools, who mailed unsigned letters
and threw smoke bombs in my room as I
slept. And you wonder if prejudice ex-
ists at Davidson? Indeed, it is easy for
some to forget about such noisome con-
cerns as they wrap themselves blissfully
in a red-and-black-and-pink-and-green
oblivion—but the scream still haunts
the air, and Davidson is not innocent.

I am a black woman, a double minori-
ty, and, at Davidson with its white male
tradition, I face double prejudice. Yet, I
will continue to fight because every time
a black woman lays down and freely
sacrifices herself to the Beast that has
taken her and her sisters for decades, I
lose a little bit of my sanctity as a black
woman.

Constant fighting has made me bitter.
I am a black woman who is proud of her
blackness, and I only ask that it be ac-
cepted as different but beautiful in its
nuance. I don’t want to be like anyone
else, but conformity seems to be the es-
sential rule of survival here.

And so I die—not visibly, not loudly,
but rather, in cold and uncreative si-
lence. My mistake has perhaps been in
loving myself too much, in letting my
color define my world, and in letting
that world glow in deep dark splendor.
My screams grow softer these days. As I
reach for the academic pinnacles upon
which Davidson prides itself, I leave
something of myself behind. As I go ev-
er a step farther in Davidson’s world,
something special and beautiful within
me withers and is heard no more . . .

THE DAVIDSONIAN/1 October 1982