Film Reviews

(King Lear, [1971], directed by Peter Brook; screenplay by—aw c’mon! Starring Paul Scofield, Irene Worth, Jack MacGowran, and Alan Webb.)
Rating: ***1/4 Viewer’s Guide: Graphic violence in the Shakespearean tradition

Paul Scofield won an Academy Award for his part in A Man for All Seasons (1966) and rightly so; his
portrayal of the pious Thomas More is a brilliant, sincere performance. Scofield’s follow-up performance as the title character in King
Lear is an equally good, if somewhat eccentric, interpretation. In fact, all of Peter Brook’s King Lear is eccentric, but
that’s what makes it so entertaining. Brook is known for his very original directorial style, as evident in his incredible
Marat/Sade (1967), which is almost too wild to describe, and Tell Me Lies (1970), perhaps Brook’s worst film, yet an
interesting failure. Above all, Brook’s films have a strong sense of realism, and King Lear is so lifelike that the
catharsis a viewer experiences after leaving the theater is mind-blowing. Constantly Brook uses huge close-ups, zooms, and strange editing to
spice up his picture. These are elements of the French New Wave movement of the sixties, and this interesting technique
is used well here. The only problem with King Lear is that it is so cold, cynical, and downbeat, that
many viewers may have a hard time staying with it. King Lear benefits also from good performances by Alan Webb
as Gloucester, Irene Worth as Goneril, and Jack MacGowran as the Fool. Brook’s King Lear is said to have been
originally based on “King Lear or Endgame,” an essay by Polish author Jan Kott. In his essay, Kott depicts King
Lear’s world as a somber landscape where there is no heaven or hell. Brook follows this idea word for word,
and his film succeeds brilliantly because of it.

(Alien [1979] Directed by Ridley Scott; screenplay based on It! The Terror from Beyond Space [1957]; starring Tom Skerritt, Sigourney
Weaver, John Hurt, and Yaphet Kotto) Rating: **1/2 Viewer’s Guide: Extreme graphic violence, brief nudity

Alien is not so much a horror movie as it is a horror of a movie. Touted as one of
the scariest movies of all time, Alien does have moments of true terror, but these, as they say, are few
and far between. Based on the 1957 cheapie sci-fi flick It! The Terror from Beyond Space, Alien has the makings
of a classic horror movie: a savage, brain-devouring extraterrestrial (no “E.T. phone home” here) has slithered into the Nostromo, an
intergalactic towing ship carrying Sigourney Weaver, Tom Skerritt, and the rest of their space crew. Naturally, the Alien begins knocking
off everyone, one by one. This sounds terrifying, and sometimes it is, but more often than not, Alien is a
monumental bore. Director Ridley Scott may be the greatest cinematographer of all time. Each frame of his movies is a
beautifully crafted picture with a sense of balance, exquisite lighting, and excellent composition. One day he will surely win an
Academy Award for his cinematographic talents. Alas, while a cinematographer Scott may be, a director he most definitely is not.
He simply does not know what to do with his live props. In the midst of all typically perfect settings,
Scott has inserted boring characters who say and do idiotic things. It’s like someone took Rembrandt’s The Red Mill and
painted Yogi Bear hanging from it. And this is exactly what happens in Alien, except that instead of getting someone
mildly entertaining like Yogi Bear in our horror movie, the viewer is stuck with total clods like Tom Skerritt and
John Hurt. All of the actors in Alien are competent, first-rate performers, but unfortunately, they are totally wasted in Alien
(in fact, some of the cast, especially Veronica Cartwright, look totally wasted).

One key ingredient to making a horror film is that the audience must first care about the characters in the
movie so that when they are placed in a situation where brain-eating is practiced, the viewers will worry and this
worry will turn into fear. In Alien, one doesn’t even get to know the astronauts, much less care about them.
I was more concerned about the cat in Alien than any of the human crew. Another big disappointment the viewer
will find in Alien is that it is rarely scary. Constantly Alien uses the clever method of scaring the audience
by having the creature sneak behind its victim and then... surprise! This is scary once, maybe even twice, but after
ten or fifteen times it gets boring and repetitious. Steven Spielberg and Brian De Palma have made more frightening films
by manipulating the audience through harsh camera angles, plot twists, and most importantly, never showing the audience too much. Alien
shows all, and in effect reduces its terror. Implied horror would have been much scarier than the explicit stuff that
is thrown about in Alien. It is more disgusting than frightening. If internal organs spilling out all over the place
is Ridley Scott’s idea of a scary movie, why not make a film called Operating Room and then there would
be real guts spilling out all over the place. Now that would be entertainment. However, you may be wondering why
I haven't given Alien an “X” rating. In spite of all that goes wrong in Alien, the effect is still
there, and I will admit that at least once I was on the edge of my seat, and maybe even
a tad bit scared during Alien. It’s almost worth the price of admission to see the Alien; he’s a bizarre
creation by Carlo Rambaldi, who most recently constructed that little green guy with the glowing pinky. The special effects are...Seamless,
except for a hokey control room that looks like a bunch of Christmas tree lights stuck up on a tack
board. And as I said before, I liked the cat.

Z: Liberal arts colleges aim to produce a full individual; I think the way in which Davidson’s church relationship is
expressed strengthens the moral character of the individual, and so I think it does strengthen Davidson. It provides a vision
of human relationships and a faith that is a steadying force. It is a great strength to the College.

Do you feel that the ties with the church are limiting?

S: I don’t see that they are limiting. I think the church relationship actually gives us a more specific responsibility
for a concern for people across the world. It is very strengthening in that sense. Getting back to something I
said earlier, I like to think that the church ties of the College do not come out in doctrinary form,
but rather in the spirit of the community. The fact that this community is close-knit, that people are important, that
we have a commitment to honor and dignity of persons and, I like to think, equality of persons. I think
it’s important that the relationship come out in those ways.

Z: I have seen no evidence that they are limiting.

How do the ties with the church affect Davidson in areas such as curriculum, student body, or educational goals?

Z: Except possibly for the religion requirement, I don’t think they do affect the curriculum in a direct way. They
certainly do affect the College in that the ties with the church are responsible for the loyalties that founded and
sustain Davidson. The trustees, for example, are by and large Presbyterian because the majority are elected by the Presbyteries. The
Presbyterian Church in all the time that I have been here sent around just one circular and that was to
urge colleges to emphasize the study of peace. Learning has always been a central foundation of the Presbyterian Church. We
have a variety of Christian traditions reflected in the faculty which would not be possible if the ties to the
Presbyterian Church were constrictive.

Do you perceive a more pluralistic faculty as an advantage to Davidson?

Z: Yes. The more pluralistic faculty very definitely enhances Davidson as a school. There has been a long-standing view at
Davidson that we cannot afford to be homogeneous or isolated; this same feeling characterizes all the best Presbyterian schools that
I know of.

Do you feel that the students here reflect the College’s religious spirit?

S: I think you would find that students that come here to Davidson in general are likely to be more
church-oriented than the cross-section at secular institutions.

Z: The Presbyterian students here compose the largest denomination. That’s been another tie with the church—a great many of them
seem to have chosen Davidson because it was a Presbyterian school.

How does religion affect the school financially?

S: Each year we get from the Synod of North Carolina (the Presbyterian Court, as it’s called, or body), about
$70,000 or $80,000. That is certainly not a large percentage or a large amount of money compared with the total
budget... It’s not unimportant. Any amount of money in that amount is good to have. We appreciate the support the
church gives; the Synod of North Carolina is pretty good in its giving to colleges in terms of its capacity
to give and in terms of the other causes to which it gives. But probably more important in economic terms
are gifts from individual Presbyterians who give because we are church-related. Some of our largest gifts are because we are
church-related.

Z: We don’t get much direct financial support from the church. I think the concern of the church for the
College is expressed in the individual gifts of church members to Davidson, not through official agencies.

Could you comment on where the College is headed with its relationship with the Presbyterian Church?

S: That is difficult to answer because the church itself is at a historic point in its history. We are
related to the Presbyterian Church in the United States which is the Southern branch of the Presbyterian Church. The main
northern branch is the United Presbyterian Church in the United States. At the last two general assemblies, they included a
plan for reunion of these two churches (these were one once, but split at the time of the Civil War).
If that kind of reunion is approved by the Presbyteries of both churches, there will be a reunion, and a
new church. Colleges related to the northern church in a very different way—they relate to the general assembly. In the
Southern church, we are related to lower courts, to Synods and Presbyteries. We are related to the Presbytery in North
Carolina and two in Florida. When the new church comes into being (which a lot of people think is probable)
then there has to be a lot of discussion as to how to mesh and to how the College is
going to relate to the new church. Nobody has given a great deal of thought to that yet. So it’s
hard to say what the future relationship might be if the new church comes into being. As of now, there
is no disposition to change the current relationship.

Do you think the ties with the church should be maintained?

Z: Yes. The ties are a strength to the College.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 15 October 1982 13
