One of the key differences has been the defense. Jim “Peanut” Wright has played far beyond expectations at sweeper. You know Peanut — he’s the guy who'd head a boulder if you asked him to. His solid play on clears and corner kicks (he’s gotta be the only sweeper in the East with three shots on goal and as many goals) has made a huge difference on offense and defense. Right behind Peanut is Pat Woodward. Everyone expected the goalie position to be a real weakness, but Woody has done an outstanding job in the goal. He’s gone over 500 straight minutes without being scored upon and has been a veritable Rock of Gibraltar in back. At this point, he’s probably playing better than Greek was at this time last year. In short, Woodward has been a surprise in the goal and a key to Davidson’s success. Goodman has been a pleasant surprise on defense, and Bill Wahl is as consistent as ever. Dan Blood is playing All-Conference caliber as well. On offense and midfield, Chris Roberts gets most of the glory as last year’s leading scorer, but a lot goes unnoticed. He controls the ball at midfield as well as anyone in the Conference, and that keeps pressure off of the defense. Brian Hamilton, a fullback last year, is doing a superlative job, as well as Peter Burr at center half. Todd Lambert is playing extremely well (as expected) and continues to play a team game with a good mixture of power and finesse. For those of you who caught the ASU game, you may remember Lambert was alone on a fast break but elected to pass the ball.

Hockey Plays Well But by Kara Gilmore ’8

It was a weekend of mixed emotions for Davidson hockey — frustration, disappointment, and encouragement. They came away from Boone battle-scarred and weary — disappointed with the one victory and two defeats they brought with them; frustrated because they could just as easily have come away 3-0; encouraged because their play improved with each game so that by the end of the weekend they were playing some outstanding hockey. The action began on Friday afternoon against Hollins. The Cats were in obvious control right from the start. Continually on the attack, the Davidson offense exploded. Carol Heppner led the way, going for a hat-trick before the Hollins defense even knew what hit them. Before the end of the first half, the Cats increased their lead to 4-0 on a goal by Caroline Scragg. In the second half, Coach Mayes substituted freely so that everyone on the team had an opportunity to play. Amy Crittenberger provided the scoring punch for the half, pounding in two goals from her center-half-back position. Hollins took advantage of some of the Davidson inexperience to score three goals of their own. But the outcome of the game was never in question as the Cats rolled to a 6-3 victory. Saturday was a different story, however, as the Cats faced two tough opponents in Longwood College and Appalachian State, both scholarship teams. In the morning game against Longwood, the Cats jumped to an early 1-0 lead on a goal from scoring machine Crittenberger. Before the half was over, though, Longwood capitalized on a couple of defensive mistakes to take a 3-1 lead. But the Wildcats came clawing back in the second half. A great goal by Carol Heppner off a scramble in front of the goal brought Davidson to within one. Longwood, though, hadn’t died either and they came right back with a goal of their own to go back up by two, 4-2. That didn’t last long, either, as Amy took it to them again.and scored yet another goal. The score then stood at 4-3. Unfortunately, that’s the way it stayed through the end. In addition to the fine play of Amy and Carol, goalies Cathy Morell and Binny Janetta performed admirably in the cage, combining for 22 saves. It was a disappointing loss, but not as heartbreaking as the one that was to follow — the loss to Appalachian. We knew before we even started that we were definitely in for a good game against the Apps. Fired up for a big win after the letdown earlier in the day, we came out smoking. Constant pressure on the App-State goalie finally resulted in a goal by Sarah Hart to put us in the lead 1-0. The Apps came back a few minutes later to get one of their own and tie it. After that, the game settled into a tough back and forth battle — up and down the field, the flow reversing constantly, with each team controlling for a while. At the half, it was still 1-1. Defense controlled the second half as neither team could manage a score. Again, as against Longwood, Cathy and Binny were outstanding in the goal, stopping 15 Appalachian shots between them. So, after two long hard games, it was time for overtime. Both teams were noticeably tired as they took the field again, but that didn’t stop them from really going at it. Four minutes into the overtime period, an Appalachian offensive player slipped through the Davidson defense and put one into the cage. Unable to score in the final three and a half minutes, we had to settle for our second loss of the day as our record slipped to 5-3. As Coach Mayes explained, “We are definitely playing better than our record indicates. We’ve come very close to beating some very good teams — 2 of our 3 losses have been in overtime and they’ve all been by one goal. We’ve been in every game right down to the end. We really played super this weekend and could have won all three games except for a couple of critical mistakes.” Action continues with 3 more road games — Wake Forest on Wednesday, rival Pfeiffer on Thursday, and Converse on Monday — before we’re home again on Wednesday, October 13 at 4 p.m. vs. High Point. It will be a game worth seeing.

HARVARD UNIVERSITY JOHN F. KENNEDY SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT is looking for future leaders in public affairs. Come learn about Harvard’s two-year master’s program in public policy, leading to either the master in public policy or city and regional planning degree.

DATE: Thursday, October 14th
CONTACT: Madeleine Thomas, Assistant to the Program Director, Careers Office, for further information and location of session.

All students, all majors, all years welcome. Joint degree programs offered.