ports.

Soccer Back on Winning Track

By MARK ELMORE ’82

Last week’s article was just too maudlin, so I decided that I should write something merry no matter what happened.
Well, I couldn’t; the impossible occurred and I just can’t be happy about it. The team beat Furman 2-1 without
me. Yes, yes I know what you’re thinking. How can a car engine run without spark plugs or a football
team win without the front line? It does seem silly to think that the team could win without me, but
they did.

Davidson started the first half a bit lackluster, which is understandable considering that they were coming off of two straight
defeats, but they settled down in the second half and controlled the game. Halli Barnett scored first from at least
the 2- or 3-yard line (one of his longer scoring shots of the year) and later Tony Cabrales embarrassed their
rushing goalkeeper on a very cheeky chip shot that glided over his head and into the net. (Since I have
used the modifier cheeky several times in the articles this year, I should explain its meaning. International Football Sports Slang
Dictionary defines cheeky as follows: 1. playing with casual elegance under pressure.)

On Wednesday, I was back in action, but it didn’t really help because the University of South Carolina beat us
2-1 anyway. Actually, we should have won the game. U.S.C. is ranked fifth in the South and consider themselves far
superior to us in soccer. Before the game, the players were laughing and joking and seemed to take victory for
granted; that is, until we scored. Chris Roberts kicked a beautiful corner kick and Jim Wright headed it into the
far corner for the 1-0. That was the fourth goal for Wright and his head this year. If he ever
scores with his foot... Well, we won’t have to worry about that.

After we scored, the boys from U.S.C. straightened up and started hustling, and then tied the match before halftime. Midway
through the second half, they scored again and kept the lead to win. The team cannot be too down after
the game since we played one of the better games this season. We had several chances to score and take
the lead, but their keeper either got lucky or made a great play.

“The team is playing better team defense,” admits Coach Slagle, “That is the reason for more offensive attacks. The halfbacks
and forwards are breaking plays up in the offensive half of the field and quickly attacking from there.”

With our offense rolling now, that means that I will probably score again. (I still haven’t used my “juke and
shoot” combination move, so be looking for it if I play Saturday.)

The team stands 10-3-4 overall and 4-2 in the Southern Conference. Saturday’s match against The Citadel is the last Southern
Conference game, and next Wednesday’s against Wake Forest is the last this season. Also, there will be a barbecue on
Saturday during the game, so bring your parents.

By John Ruppenthal ’84

Sean Austin and Hall Barnett battle for the ball against South Carolina

~ Catch the Cats in Action Tomorrow:
11:30 - Soccer vs. The Citadel
12:00 - Intrasquad Basketball scrimmage
2:00 - Football vs. Bucknell

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 5 November 1982
