Better late than never. Wildcat baseball bats are finally waking from a prolonged and unwanted hibernation and for Coach George Greer & Company it’s not a game too soon.

On Wednesday, Davidson sluggers let it all hang out as they took Warren Wilson, 13-11, in a hard-fought slugfest. Shortstop Allen Griffin led the barrage as he went 4-for-6 with four RBIs. Those base knocks raised his average to .421, but he nonetheless pointed to a lumber slumber as part of the team’s 11-19 record. “We've played some good hitting teams lately. We just started hitting the ball real well the past two games.”

Against Warren Wilson, the Cats held a 6-2 lead going into the fifth. Brian Whitmire was starting his first game, and by the fifth inning, he had thrown 93 pitches. As Greer put it, “He just got tired and the ball got up. They got a couple of timely hits and a couple of walks.” The visitors seized the opportunity and put eight runs on the board. Davidson bounced back surprisingly well, though, as Scott Redding reached base on a misplay in left field. Mark Adams set the spark to flame with a single, and Redding scored on a Marc Webster base knock. Beaver singled in two runs to cut the lead to 10-9. Then sophomore centerfielder Jeff McSwain clobbered the ball for a two-run homer and wiped the lead. The Cats padded the lead in the seventh as Doug Wiley drilled a shot over the right field fence to lead the inning off, and Griffin scored on consecutive singles.

The night before (Tuesday) had not been quite as profitable. The team traveled to Salisbury, where the Catawba Indians won a 16-9 slugfest. Said Greer, “It’s a hitter’s ballpark. If we get into a hitting contest, we don’t have as much consistency as we'd like to have.”

Beaver led off the game with a solo homer, and catcher Phil Gordon added two to the cause.

Whitney started the season, denied to Wingate to play a team ranked 5-2 preseason in the NAIA. As Barnes put it, “We hit the ball out of the ball.” The Wingate right fielder had three home runs off in the 15-3 win. Saturday, however, the Cats fared better as it split a twin billing with Appalachian State. Greer cited hitting in the clutch as the culprit in the loss. “We should have won both, but we didn’t hit in the clutch,” according to Greer. Wiley had a splendid mound effort in the first game.