“... and a lot of action, a lot of people coming in and out, and that’s great if you need that kind of energy, but I feel I do know what’s going on in terms of what I can use, what’s important. Because when you live in the situation where you’re removed from the mainstream of the art center, the information you get is already filtered a little bit. You meet people that have thought about it an awful lot and can distill the information. But if you live in that center you get a lot of real useless negative energy and information. There’s a lot of jealousy, and art is one of the most competitive fields in the world. That’s the kind of information I always find when I’m in the center too long. I really like being away from it a bit... It (Davidson) is quiet. Sometimes people from New York want to leave New York because they don’t want to be on their own. If they’re isolated, they get anxious. I don’t worry about that... I always have plenty to paint.”

Weapon’s Beginnings?

“I came to art from a music background, and was a musician. I went through a jazz phase, a rock and roll phase, a folk phase, a country phase, all the phases. I started playing trumpet at 6, then later piano, guitar, bass. I was real serious about it until I was about 19. Then I started drawing and painting more and more. The idea of being able to make something and exhibit it, so in a sense part of you is in a certain place but you personally don’t have to be there. That's what attracted me to art from music. With music, you always had to be there; I didn’t want to be in front of people all the time.

It wasn’t great to be from Texas. Texas was real funny then. Everybody was pretending they weren’t from Texas when they were living there. You know how a lot of Americans talk about Americans as if they’re not Americans? It was the same thing in Texas and I had spent a long time, all that and found that that was ridiculous, that I really had to have that to know who I was, so I started doing large paintings of Texas imagery. Cows, cattle, sixguns, cocktail waitresses in honky-tonks, funny Texas businessmen. I sold a few, not too many. They were very sarcastic, very absurd.”

Sculpture?

“The Beaumont Art Museum outside of Houston had a grant to further investigate regional imagery, and so they looked at people that were interested in that and I was... They gave us (Warren and Earl Stagley) a grant. They said they’d pay all our expenses, buy all our materials, and we could have the whole museum and we could just do anything we wanted with it. So we had about 6 to 8 months to do this.

The fastest medium available is papier-mâché, especially if you’re going to work very large, and with modern plastics and acrylics it’s very easy to make a large papier-mâché structure and coat it with plastic or acrylic and have a pretty durable sculptural piece. And so I became interested in papier-mâché and did a lot of large sculpture, about 20 really big pieces and they were really funky, really strange. Well, they weren’t permanent, unfortunately, because the studio that I had was an old building that’s been condemned and torn down since, but we couldn’t keep the roaches out of the papier-mâché; even though we coated it with plastic they’d burn right through and they disintegrated.

I think there’s one somewhere in Austin, Texas. I did a large cocktail waitress that was about 7 feet tall and she was real funny... The Beaumont Art Museum has one, a sculptural portrait of who was then Mayor of Dalton, Briscoe. A funny little portrait: I made it out of papier-mâché for the face and then I got one of those kid cowboy hats and hay from a ranch to make his body and then bluebonnets growing out of his head.”

Brian Butler ’84