~

Dr. William P. Cumming:

A Study in the Cartography of Scholarship

By LEE TORRENCE ’83

Dr. William Patterson Cumming lives on Woodlawn Street, right across from Dr. Mary Beaty. He became a professor of English here at Davidson in 1927 and served as chairman of the department from 1961 until retirement in 1968. I visited him at his house one day last week and spent an enjoyable and rewarding afternoon talking with him about his life and work. I found Professor Cumming to be a dapper, well-dressed man, exceedingly gracious and eager to talk about his fascination with old maps.

He was born in Japan of missionary parents who sent him back to the United States when he was thirteen. At sixteen he came to Davidson and majored in physics. He attended Princeton for graduate school, receiving his M.A. in English in 1922 and his Ph.D. in 1925. Professor Cumming spent a year at Oxford, then taught for a year at Williams College in Massachusetts. In 1927 he returned to teach at Davidson.

However, he returned to England each summer, doing research in Renaissance literature. It was on one of these trips abroad that he met his wife, Elizabeth Cumming, who had been teaching at Smith College. They were married in 1931 and sailed to England for their honeymoon. While in London, Dr. Cumming noticed in the window of an old print shop a map of “Carolina” which showed a large western lake, a 125-mile desert called “Arenosa,” and a savannah that was said to be submerged for half of the year. He was intrigued by the map and amused by the notion that his home in Davidson lay in the middle of the savannah. Professor Cumming bought the map and a cartographer encouraged him to research the matter further. This he did, and he soon found that the map was a copy of the first Lord’s Proprietors Map by Ogilby, who had relied heavily on the often-exaggerated reports of a young German scholar and traveler, John Lederer. After this experience, Dr. Cumming says, “I was hooked on maps and have been ever since.”

This began his intensive research of old maps. He spent practically all his free time during the next twenty-seven years, combing the libraries and archives of this country for old maps and other documents of cartographical interest. He was meticulous in his research, and evidence of this can be seen in the fact that both the Library of Congress and the British Museum have adopted his system of numbering and indexing maps. Map collectors and dealers rely heavily on his work; one New England dealer has told Professor Cumming that some of his clients will not buy a map if it is not listed by Cumming. The culmination of much of his research was the publication in 1958 of The Southeast in Early Maps.

Certainly one of the most exciting scholarly finds made by Professor and Mrs. Cumming was the collection of maps owned by the Duke of Northumberland and housed at Alnwick Castle in Northern England. Cumming wrote to the Duke, and he replied that the Cummings were welcome to inspect his maps but that his earliest map of America only dated from 1751. Professor Cumming hypothesized that the Duke must have a copy of the Fry-Jefferson Map, made by Joshua Fry, a surveyor and professor of mathematics at William and Mary, and Peter Jefferson, the father of Thomas Jefferson. When they arrived, they found their expectations exceeded.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 29 October 1982