Bo-Ho Gets Sick

I wasn’t going to write anything this week, because I am sick. When I told my editor of my decision,
they were immediately sympathetic to the problems of my fragile condition. “Why don’t you just write about being sick?” said
one. “The paper’s going to be small enough this week as it is,” said the other. “Besides, your arm’s not
broken, is it?” Well, it’s not every day that one finds such a gentle, caring attitude in his superiors, so
I decided to try to squeeze one out for Stewart and Brian. Besides, I know Van Beck would be disappointed
not to hear from me this week.

Being sick can be inconvenient. Since Monday afternoon I have missed most of my classes and two days of work.
The latter fact will rear its ugly head again in about two weeks when I have to come up with
the rent. I will be reminded of the former when review time comes around (I still need a B in
my major to graduate).

Being sick can be embarrassing. Monday I left Dr. Mackelway’s seminar early, pleading malaise. Several hours later we met up
while I was running an errand. He seemed interested in the fact that I was out in the cold night
air so soon after fleeing to my bed in pain.

Most of all, being sick can be uncomfortable. Have you ever noticed that when you’re sick, the middle of whatever
you are lying on suddenly becomes higher than either end, thus shunting all your blood into your already throbbing head?
Also, for reasons that still escape modern science, as soon as you get sick, your clothes (or pajamas) lose their
ability to breathe. It’s hell when your own clothes make you claustrophobic. What about the sneeze that plays around in
your head for hours, making your eyes squint and water every few minutes, just to let you know it’s still
there.

It’s all enough to make you not want to do anything but watch your eyelids. That’s why I feel so
grateful for people like my dear editors. Kindly but firmly, they remind one that life does go on, that all
the little people deserve some extra effort on our part. That is why I’m writing something this week. And that’s
how I feel about being sick.

By John Hartman ‘82

---

Record Reviews with Jon Glance

4-Skins: White Neighborhood

One of the problems of the contemporary DJ is the dilemma over whether to play albums by groups with repugnant
political and personal views (e.g., fascists and racists). This EP is a case in point, because, although the music is
very good, the politics behind the band are allegedly very bad. The EP is heavily influenced by the heavy grooves
of James Brown down to the grunts and field hollers, and the more soul-dipped New Wave bands. The basic quartet
consists of two guitars, bass, and drums, with background singers and a hot sax section which mixes Motown burps with
free jazz screeches. The EP itself includes four uptempo jams and one song (“Strings to Your Heart”) which combines Latin
ballad passages with fast rock rhythms. This song also features the solo work of guitarist Eggs McDonnell (probably not his
real name), while the rest of the cuts have solos by an uncredited tenor saxophonist.

The best song on this album is the impassioned “White Neighborhood.” However, this song also raises the most questions about
the band. What at first seems like an entertaining hard funk song about what people eat in different neighborhoods (“Well
it might be cooking like the White House/With fancy French cuisine/Or it might be cooking like the South Bronx...”), continues
to a refrain of “White Neighborhood--Sieg Heil! White Neighborhood--Sieg Heil!” The question is, does the band really mean this, and
are they all neonazis? According to a friend from England, the 4-Skins play before packed houses of National Front skinheads.
The back cover would also seem to indicate rather Right Wing politics--the members of the band are shown standing around
a burning cross amid urban blight. However, in this same picture, the bass player is revealed to be black, which
furthers the confusion. If the band is merely satirizing the racism of the neo-nazis, they’re certainly being subtle about it;
but with a band this funky I suppose this is possible.

While it may be disturbing to some that a band would take or even joke about taking a militant stance
of white supremacy, there is no taking away the fact that the band is very accomplished musically and very danceable.
So, if you’re ready for the dance movement for the street riots of the future--as pictured by various survivalist groups,
take the 4-Skins EP into your fallout shelter and indoctrinate your youth for the future, while dancing on the I.
