Sundown

His mother looked up at him from behind a row of jarred preserves, and over the rims of the glasses which were her closest lieutenants. “After dinner, now, your father wants you to walk your sister over to the Murphy’s. Mr. Murphy will walk her home tomorrow.”

“Why is it always me? Why can’t father do it himself?” Carl asked, obviously upset.

“Don’t be foolish,” she said, matter-of-factly. “Your father can’t do things like that anymore, else he'll kill himself like your Uncle John did last year.” She glanced over her shoulder at the lace-framed window behind her. “He’s outside right now and I don’t like it. Not at all.”

“Mother, I—”

“Now you go out and call your father to dinner.”

Carl stepped out of the salt-cellar farmhouse, letting the screen flap in the ever-present rush of the plain. He was immediately besieged by a lonely tree standing far off but batting at his head and shoulders with shadowy shaking hands. Carl blinked as the tree flashed away in light and dark fury. He looked out across the surface of the plain, a carpet of grain crawling its way to the mountains to the west. Carl saw his father and shouted through cupped hands. He saw his father look at the house from the near pasture, say a last word to the hired hand, and make his slow way home.

Carl waited patiently at the door so he could hold it open for his father. He wanted his father to look at him, to see some of his anger or even some of his compassion. His father looked very tired and went inside without glancing at Carl. He followed his father’s back through the door with his eyes and then looked back at the sun still winking at him through the flailing limbs of the oak in the middle of the near pasture. The sun was already near the horizon, but it would still be up for a couple hours yet. He turned and went inside, the screen banging behind him.

He entered the kitchen to see his mother and father talking softly and earnestly. They stopped when they realized he was there. Carl and his sister left for the Murphy’s right after dinner. The sun had set a little more, and there was a yellow glow in the air so that you could barely feel where the air left off and where the dry, full wheat stalks began. Carl walked and failed to notice his arm being gently forced backwards by his shorter sister. He was thinking about Uncle John, who had been a butcher in town. Uncle John was Carl's father’s brother, and all the animals would raise a cry whenever Uncle John came out to the farm. They knew it was someone’s turn. It was always someone's turn. Carl thought about that last evening, how pale and translucent his uncle had looked, like he was about to fade out of existence at any moment. He'd thought about that night often, dreamt about it, since the death.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 April 1982

“Father said the mare’s foaling soon,” his sister said. “He told me before that.”he’d let me have the next colt she threw.” He didn’t hear her. “Carl, slow down!” They walked on a ways without speaking, Carl casting a dark yellow shadow over his sister who was running now occasionally, trying to keep up. Suddenly he stopped and turned to her. “I wish Father would just go on and die!” he said, a little too loud even out in the open. He spun again and walked on, as fast as before, his sister followed with a reluctant jerk as he had kept a tight hold on her hand. They disappeared over a slight rise, still walking quickly and now silent again. The air was beginning to take on a bluish hue as Carl started walking home—he knew he'd have to really hurry now if he wanted to make it home before dark. He didn’t like being out in the open after dark. He felt afraid. And this was actually when things were darkest, when the sun was still up enough to keep the stars from shining and everything was no longer palpable but had become instead menacing shadows for a time, sometimes for a long time if the moon was new. There was a yellow glow in the sitting room window when the house separated itself from the lighter darkness around it, and Carl went inside with some relief, glad to be back inside a house whose walls he could feel. His mother was in the sitting room darning socks, squinting in the low light of the lamp. She looked up at him over her glass rims. “Your father’s gone on up to bed. He wasn’t feeling well.” She didn’t acknowledge his questioning look. “I think it’s time we all went to bed as a matter of fact. It’s late.” She blew down the lamp chimney and closed the fuel valve. They both mounted the familiar stairs without feeling for the wall and parted company at the top, she down the hall to the right, he turning left and into his room. Carl changed in the dark as he heard his mother say something and strained to hear his father’s weak reply. Carl woke later with his heart panicking loudly and the sound of crying animals in his ear. Someone was climbing the stairs heavily. The steps had neither the flat thump of booted feet nor the soft thud of bare ones. They made a squelching sound, like someone walking through puddles of water where they had to splash a couple inches down before meeting the soft mud in wet shoes. Carl was scared listening to them, and yet he felt a strange thrill too. He heard the steps reach the top of the stairs and heard his mother in the hall. “John, what are you doing here?” she demanded, her voice shaking. Carl heard three more squishing steps, like Uncle John was having difficulty deciding where the floor began, and then an alarm-clock ching of an object hurled against his door. He burrowed face down in his pillow and trembled softly.

Jeff Hamilton 82

Jeff won first honorable mention in the 1982 Vereen Bell Competition for this very. 13