Semester System May Alter Studio Art

By MIKE TANTILLO ’85

The Davidson faculty’s recent vote to change the academic calendar to a semester system will affect the art department in both positive and negative ways. Art history, for example, will benefit while studio art will suffer from the change.

Associate Professor of Art History Dr. Larry Ligo sees art students as having “time to let material percolate. Students will, therefore, be able to deal more comfortably with the material.” Echoing Dr. Ligo’s thoughts, Associate Professor of Art Dr. Shaw Smith anticipates students “having time to think, rather than regurgitate. A student is not tested one day on material that was covered in class the day before.” However, the introductory survey course may have to meet more than three times a week in order to cover all the necessary material in fourteen weeks.

Because Davidson’s calendar will coincide with many more schools, exchange programs will be more available to students. According to Dr. Ligo, “Davidson currently has no sculptor; now sculpting will be available to students on an exchange basis. Photography and ceramics courses will also be more readily available to students.”

Davidson currently takes art students to southern France to study art each spring term. While in France, students receive two art credits and are currently able to take their third course independently. The change to semesters will create problems for this program. One problem will be getting credit for a fourth course. Due to financial considerations, the group will probably still spend about two months. However, the first part of the semester will be spent writing two lengthy papers that are required of the students before they go. Dr. Ligo sees the “art history seminar in France’s problems as solvable.”

The semester system will pose time and space problems for studio art, however. Art professors currently teach four courses per term, while under the semester system they will offer six courses per term, with each professor teaching three courses. Courses under both calendars must be two to three hours long. It will be difficult to offer six courses at a time and not be forced to use the same space at the same time. According to Dr. Ligo, “When the art department is able to move into Johnston Gym, the space problem should be alleviated.”

The studio currently has two adequate rooms, one for basic painting and one for printmaking. Apparatus for each of these courses must be left in the room all the time. Students do not take their easels with them after class. Professors do not see the scheduling of art history courses as a problem, but some studio courses may have to be offered at night.

Professor Ligo puts art in his ear.

Medic Alert Saves Lives

According to Dr. Malcolm Todd, surgeon and past President of the American Medical Association, probably 20 percent of the college-age population in the United States has a condition that needs to be known in a medical emergency.

“Fatal mistakes, unnecessary or improper treatment can be administered under emergency conditions if the special medical condition of the victim is unknown,” Todd says. He suggests that anyone with a special medical condition wear a Medic Alert bracelet or necklace. Recent estimates by the nonprofit Medic Alert organization indicate that the system has played an important role in life-saving situations approximately 2,000 times during the past year.

By Anderson Scott '84

“Medic Alert is the most simple and efficient emergency medical identification and information system that can be devised,” according to Todd. Each member of Medic Alert receives an annual update on their wallet card, which serves as a reminder for the individual to make changes in...the information, if necessary. The Medic Alert bracelet or necklace has engraved on it the member’s identification number, their special medical condition, and a twenty-four-hour collect phone number to Medic Alert’s emergency information center. In case of an accident or sudden illness, a phone call to a trained operator at the center will provide authorized personnel with the member’s vital emergency medical information within a few seconds. Other important data about the patient, the name of the family physician, blood type, and insurance information can also be a part of the member’s Medic Alert file, for example. “The more we know about a victim in an emergency, the quicker and more efficiently we are able to treat the person. Medic Alert is an important adjunct to providing sound emergency medical care,” Todd added. For information, write Medic Alert, Turlock, California 95381 or call their toll-free number (800) 344-3226.

Professors’ Salaries

(CPS)—Engineering and business professors are the best-paid public college teachers, according to a new survey of faculty salaries. The survey, conducted jointly by Appalachian State University, the College and University Personnel Association, and the American State Association of State Colleges and Universities, found that full engineering and business professors averaged $32,841 last year. That puts them some seven percent higher than the average public college professor, who last year made $30,739. Computer science profs were the next best-paid, making $31,968. Economics professors averaged $31,353, the fourth-best rate. Art professors are the worst-paid, making $29,519.

The new assistant professors public colleges hired last year were ranked similarly. Foreign language, English, history, and other liberal arts assistant professors were paid the least, while business and engineering assistant profs made the most. Newly-hired assistant profs on the 204 public campuses that responded to the survey averaged $19,770 last year.

Faculty members on all U.S. campuses—both public and private—enjoyed salary hikes slightly higher than the inflation rate, though just how much higher is open to question. The National Center for Education Statistics says faculty salaries increased by 9.2 percent between 1981 and 1982, compared to the 8.6 percent increase in the Consumer Price Index. But an American Association of University Professors survey released last June put the increase at only nine percent, giving college teachers an average real income gain of .04 percent. In either case, it was the first time since 1972 that faculty salaries rose faster than the Consumer Price Index, the National Center for Education Statistics reports.

U.S. Intelligence’s Long ’59 Returns

Dr. David E. Long ’59, current director of the U.S. State Department’s section on Middle East intelligence and research, returned to Davidson Thursday, 4 November, to share his experience in that volatile region of the world. Long participated in a forum on “The Middle East After the Lebanon Crisis” Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union. Appearing with him was visiting distinguished professor of political science Dr. Shepard Jones, and Dr. Lou Ortmayer, political science professor and director of the Center for Special Studies. The Center for Special Studies sponsored Long’s visit.

Long studied under Jones for his master’s degree in international relations at the University of North Carolina after graduating from Davidson. He received another master’s degree from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, and earned a Ph.D. degree in Islamic Studies from George Washington University. His career in the State Department includes several years with American embassies in Saudi Arabia, Algeria, and the Sudan. In 1972, he received the W. Averell Harriman Award for distinguished service to the department. Long is currently on leave to write a book about the Middle East. He has already authored several volumes on the region, including his most recent work titled, “Modernization in Saudi Arabia.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN/5 November 1982