_ One of the youths mentioned the existence of an arson “club.” County Officer J.C. Williams said that the word
“club” was only mentioned by one of them, and if it is true, the others have not said anything.

Two of the boys have also been charged with arson in connection with three other fires in the North Mecklenburg
area over the past three years. Charged with arson:

Maurice Torrence, 17

Walter Parson, 18

Scott Ponder, 18

Roosevelt Caldwell, 18

ROTC

Fraternity Wins National Honor

The National Society of Scabbard and Blade, an honorary military fraternity, has designated the Davidson College company as the best
among the 212 companies nationwide in 1981-82.

Davidson’s company, associated with the ROTC program on campus, sponsors a number of services to the community, including a Red
Cross blood drive, rappelling clinics, a benefit race for the American Lung Association, and speakers.

Jeffrey H. Wright of Greensboro, who graduated last spring, commanded the company. This year’s commander is senior Harry R. Easterling
Jr. of Bennettsville, S.C. The company adviser is Maj. William R. Pittman III, a Davidson ROTC instructor.

Other company officers are 1st Lt. Joseph B. Simpson IV from Charlotte, 2nd Lt. Joseph C. Sloop from Kannapolis, and
1st Sgt. Stephen J. Miller from Lawndale. All are Davidson seniors.

Senior class cadet members are James V. Young Jr. from Leavenworth, Kansas, Russell G. Snipes Jr. from Fuquay-Varina, and Blair
A. Maxwell from Oswego, New York.

Junior class cadet members are Edward B. Perkins from Whitsett, William E. David from Cary, Bradley T. McCall from Augusta,
Georgia, and Philip S. Harry from Rixeyville, Virginia.

Davidson Dry Goods Opens

By MARK W. BATTEN ’85

“I never thought I’d be running a clothing store,” laughs Pat Knox. Yet Davidson Dry Goods, the newest addition to
the Main Street line, has been doing well since it opened September 17. Mrs. Knox and her husband, Russell, have
been working since June to make it happen.

Mrs. Kennelly, for 15 years the proprietor of Mary Mac’s Dress Shop, last year sold her complete inventory and decided
to retire. Knox Realty has been next door for ten years, and the Knoxes decided to buy the building and
continue the only clothing store in town.

The store is mostly women’s clothing, ranging from casuals to dressier outfits. Roughly 25 percent of the store is casual
clothing for men: cotton slacks, shirts, and Shetland sweaters. Davidson Dry Goods appeals not only to Davidson students but local
residents, and Mrs. Knox attributes much of its success to the convenience of a clothing shop right here in town.

The Knoxes have been remodeling the store since June. The old-timey name is just the beginning. Overhead fans, rocking chairs,
and other touches give the store a tastefully old-fashioned atmosphere that contrasts well with the contemporary fashions lining the walls
and gold jewelry in the floor display cases. The effort seems to have paid off.

Amnesty International

By CARL HOBSON ’86

Volunteers from Davidson's fledgling chapter of Amnesty International collected names on 27-29 September for a petition that will be presented
to Uganda president Dr. Apolo Milton Obote.

Amnesty International chapters the world over are also contributing names to the petition.

“We, the undersigned... urgently appeal to His Excellency Dr. Apolo Milton Obote, President of the Republic of Uganda,... to exercise
to the full the government's constitutional responsibility to protect human rights in Uganda by taking all steps necessary to halt
these gross violations of fundamental human rights (by the Ugandan Army).”

AI member John Krotchko hopes that an “international spotlight” on the Ugandan military's wanton slaughter of unarmed civilians “will spark
the lethargic government into action.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: Box 218,
Davidson, NC 28036. Phone 704/892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of Grey Student Union. Subscriptions
cost $10 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage no. USPS 149-300.

Staff: Lindsay Biddle, Bill Barnett, Duncan V. Fraser, Jennifer Gotto, Frank Hague, Thurston Hatcher, Joe Jaworski

Editor: Stewart Cauley
Executive Editor: Brian Butler
News Editor: David Resnik
Features Editor: Tom Pafford
Sports Editor: Steve Soud
Production Editor: Ann Meador
Photography Editor: Andy Scott
Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams
Calendar Editor: Ivy Goodman
Business Manager: Lentz Ivey
Advertising Manager: Garry Sullivan
Graphics: Scot Myers
Editor Emeritus: Elizabeth Kiss

Rob Hollenbeck, James Rozzelle, Paulette Kurani, Jeff Danese

Foreign Correspondents: John Siman, Anne Lambert, Laura McGee, Jeff Mann, Elodie McMillan, David Banks, Matt Morris

Traveling Correspondents: Ant Goode, Andy Wilson, John Hartman

THE DAVIDSONIAN/1 October 1982 | 5
