For five seniors, it was their last hurrah. Wednesday’s baseball game against archrival UNCC was their home season finale, and
the team put together a solid effort to beat the 49ers 4-2. Of the five seniors (Rusty Colechia, Allen Griffin,
Earl Ransom, Marc Webster, and Brian Whitmire), Beaver and Co-co stole the spotlight. Griffin’s two doubles and a walk in
four trips to the plate bolstered his average to .419 and added to his school record total bases for the
season (100). “I’ve played here for four years and it was really good to finish up so well,” the senior
shortstop said. Colechia started and went the distance, yielding only five hits in the impressive effort. He sent four down
with Ks and neither 49er run was earned. Of the other seniors, Webster had a good defensive day with several
assists including the game’s final out, Ransom reached base on a sac bunt and wound up scoring the fourth run.
Hollywood, a relief pitcher when Co-co needed none, gave a first-rate performance as first base coach.

Davidson scored its runs in the first, fifth, and eighth innings. Beaver walked and came around to score in the
first, and in the fifth he and sophomore Jeff McSwain hit consecutive doubles with two out to score a second
run. In the bottom of the eighth with none out, Swainer slapped an infield single to deep short to get
the inning going. Ransom bunted down the right side, but the pitcher couldn’t get the handle and both were safe.
Phil Gordon laid down a nice sac bunt to advance both runners into scoring position. Lefty Doug Wiley stepped to
the plate and hit a sharp line grounder to the second baseman, who played the hop off his chest for
an error. Wiley got the two game-winning RBIs.

In the top of the ninth, Co-co led off the inning with his fifth K, but walked two to bring
the go-ahead run to the plate. “I was getting a little tired, and I just wanted to throw strikes—I knew
they couldn’t hurt us with the long ball,” Colechia said. He threw the strikes and pitched himself out of the
jam. First-year Coach George Greer was pleased with his team’s effort, “We did all the right things,” he said, “We
bunted, we executed when we had to, we moved the runners over. Doug Wiley comes through, hits the ball hard,
and makes them make a mistake. He blistered it.” His Wildcats are improving, and everyone was happy with the win.

Last week the team split a doubleheader with Gardner-Webb. “We were just one pitch away from winning or losing both
games.” The Cats dropped the first game 4-3, but took the second 8-5. In the top of the seventh with
the host leading 2-1, Marc Webster lined a 1-2 pitch into the outfield to bring in the tying run. In
the next inning, Jeff McSwain put the Cats on top with a home run, and several timely hits after that
brought the Wildcat tally to 8 runs. They got three runs back in the bottom of the eighth just to
make it interesting, but Bobby Barnes held on for the win.

Against Winthrop, a 15 mph tailwind scooted a couple of routine fly balls out of the ballpark as they shelled
Wildcat pitchers for 15 runs. Against East Tennessee, however, the Cats were their own worst enemies. “We had them, but
we made some defensive mistakes that didn’t show up as errors. Overall, though, we played well,” said Greer. “We’re improved,”
he continued. “We’re starting to do the little things baseball players need to do to win, and I think the
trend will continue into next year.”

Saturday the Cats wrap up the 1982 season as they travel to Western Carolina, where the Catamounts must sweep a
twin-billing to tie for the Southern Conference Championship. The Cats, with a chance to play spoilers, will be fired up.
Says Greer, “We will play both games like the seventh game of the World Series. If they beat us, they’re
gonna have to earn it.”

Steve Soud ‘84

Men’s Tennis Shocks SC

The men’s tennis team finished the 1982 season this past weekend with a 17-12 record and third place finish in
the Southern Conference Tournament. Coach Jeff Frank was satisfied that...his team’s performance had been up to his expectation. “I’m really
as pleased as I could be about the tournament. Going into the tournament, I thought we would finish between third
and fifth. I would have been happy to finish fourth so I was really pleased with where we finished. I
knew Furman (which finished first) and UT-C (second) would be strong, so from our viewpoint finishing third would be first
for us."

The Wildcats placed two players in the finals: Senior Nevins Todd, at No. 3 did what Frank called “his usual
solid, outstanding job.” Freshman Sedge Grey also finished second at No. 3. “All of the conference coaches were quite impressed
with Sedge’s mental toughness,” said Frank. In addition to the singles finalists, the No. 3 doubles team of Grey and
Phillip Crowder reached the finals.

The Wildcat netters came into the tournament playing what Frank called their best tennis of the year. The Cats had
won six of their previous seven matches and had upset Appalachian State. This part of the season was gratifying for
Frank who said the season was “everything I'd hoped for from this team.”

Frank is optimistic for next season. “We bring back a really good nucleus, losing only one of the top six,
so that looks good right there. In addition, this has probably been the best recruiting year I’ve ever had. We'll
be young, but next year looks promising.”

Scott Beaver Continued from page 21

Their choice, the campus visit, was the answer. “Our players put on the final touch and they were the big
reason why we got the kids that we got. They (the recruits) always said they were impressed with the caliber
of kids we had on the team. They were impressed by the size of the campus, the atmosphere, and the
feeling they had for it. And that goes back, I think, to we did a good job on reading the
prospect and seeing if a Davidson environment would appeal to this kid.”

Vaillancourt described the campus visit, “We brought him on campus and you know he stays in the dorm with the
players—we don’t put him in hotels. He will attend classes in an area of his major, he will meet the
professor. Dr. Spencer did a great job of explaining Davidson to the player. Our Admissions people did a great job
of explaining to him the academic requirements and the options available to him on campus. The students, whether they realize
it or not, gave off the image that this is a comfortable and enjoyable place to go to school. And
our players are great recruiters.”

Finally, of course, comes national signing day. April 14 was the culmination of months of hard work. Coach Vaillancourt signed
Bill Pollock, but I'll let him tell the story. “I watched baseball practice—I was told other coaches would be coming
to look at him. I got to baseball practice and I see these cars pulling up. I’m looking around, and
I guess some of these schools didn’t think it was over yet. So Bill was taking batting practice and I
was holding up the National Letter of Intent, pointing at it. And he would wink and smile because we knew
there’d be no problem there.

“All the kids stuck to their word. When they committed verbally they stuck to their decision. We respected that a
whole lot.”

And so concluded an outstanding recruiting year. But more than anything it was a team effort. Coaches Hicklin and Vaillancourt
returned from a summer road trip to an office that had been a folder-covered mess but was suddenly neat. While
they were gone Coach Baker and secretary Debby Young had worked on what they called the “pick system,” a single
card with all the necessary information on a player. Vaillancourt figures, “By that one card they had saved us 30%
of our paperwork.”

But the teamwork went past the paperwork. “Robbie helped pull me through, and we would have our little one-on-one almost
therapy sessions. When he saw that fatigue setting in, Robbie was a great help pulling me through. And I think
I got him cranked up. It might be out of anxiety—we Continued on page 23

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 April 1982
