From the Locker Room

To begin with, I'd like to go back to last week’s column and the abuse I gave most Davidson spectators. When I wrote that section, I had the vague feeling that people would comment to me about those “other” fans, but the very people who commented to me would be the ones I was writing about to begin with. By and large, that intuitive feeling became fact, as most of the people who commented were the ones about whom I was writing.

Allow me to straighten this matter out. When I wrote of the one last group without which “I tremble to think what the crowd would be like,” I was talking about maybe 35 people, 45 tops. Here’s a simple test to find out if you’re in the number:
1) Have you stood up for 30 minutes or more at a Davidson game?
2) Have you yelled at least 5 verbally abusive comments at the ref in one game?
3) After a game which you attended, did the first person you met who didn’t go to the game ask you, “What happened to your voice?” (Appropriate answer: “I left it in the gym.”)
4) (Optional) Do you hate Carolina fans?

If you answered three out of four of the above questions, yes, you passed. If you answered all four yes, you passed with flying colors. Let’s see if everyone who didn’t pass can take it and pass tomorrow night in Charlotte.

Anyway, on to the locker room. Road locker rooms are somewhat different from home locker rooms. To those who think basketball teams travel in ultimate style, take it from me. The style doesn’t go past the motor coach the team rides on. At least in the Southern Conference.

My ride up to Western Carolina was quite interesting. I rode up with Equipment Manager John Byrd and Wildcat Club assistant Mike Moore. In a conversation that ranged from college drinking stories to Big 10 football, I learned a few things about Davidson basketball.

Davidson ticket sales have naturally gone down across the years, but Mike is expecting an improvement next year. Practically no one wanted tickets this year, especially since we lost our three top scorers. “This year all we had to sell was a new coach,” he said. But hopefully after this year’s shocking record he figures we'll do better next year.

Last weekend Charlotte hosted Chapel Hill, N.C. State, Furman, and the Citadel in the North-South (Carolinas) Classic. Why would 11,000 people pay a lot of money to watch the Tar Heels blow the Paladins off the court in a display of basketball that would make James Naismith cry? Mike contends that North Carolinians are not basketball fans, but rather Tar Heel fans. The Davidson-UNCC game on the 21st will be good, solid basketball, an exciting game. But maybe 4,000 people (mostly UNCC fans, mind you) will pay to see an exciting game, whereas 11,000 paid to see a blowout. In a basketball-crazy state like Indiana, it’d be the other way around.

When we got to Western Carolina we walked into a locker room that smelled as if someone had puked in it 15 minutes before. The team got dressed, warmed up, and came back in for its pregame ritual. Coach Hussey outlined defensive matchups and key stats for opposing players and discussed the game plan.

By halftime it was obvious that the team wasn’t really following the game plan, and to tell the truth, they were lucky to be down by only nine. In the second half, any disorganization became complete as the Catamounts routed the Wildcats in an embarrassing loss.

Coach Hussey didn’t get down on the team, though. He’s been gearing them for the tournament from the start, and tourney time is nigh. With that thought I picked my way through the shattered hopes and egos on the locker room floor and came up with a bit of encouragement. Of the top four teams other than us, we’ve split with three and lost twice to UT-C. It’s a well-known truism that it’s tough to beat a team three times in a season, so the only team we have to worry about is App State, and possibly Furman. We won’t meet either of those two until the finals, and if we win the quarterfinal game we’ll meet UT-C in the semifinals and the odds will be in our favor. After all, we proved we can play with the Mocs.

I rode back to Davidson on the team’s bus, in an atmosphere quite unlike that after the App State win. Jamie Hall didn’t say a word for an hour, I don’t think. Frustration — Coach Hussey had used the word earlier — was written all over Jamie’s boyish face. Four years’ worth. But with a little luck and a lot of fan support, that preseason goal of a tournament championship is very real.

by Steve Soud

The Hair Cottage

Creative hair for men and women

Owner/stylist: Jane Schenck

1757 E. Rocky River Rd.
892-5107 by appointment only

WOMEN
YOU NAME IT — WE'LL STYLE IT

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

MAIN STREET

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982

23