Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

20:

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 16 April 1982.

“Of all those who have won that award, he certainly is one of them.” So said Danny Waddill when the Davidsonian asked him to comment on the recent recipient of the Founders Award of the National Association for Campus Activities (N.A.C.A.). That recipient happens to be C. Shaw Smith, College Union director, student activities coordinator, and prominent campus figure.

(“He’s bigger than two men,” Waddill added.)

The award is the highest honor the association allots to any of its members. A secret nomination committee of six members meets once each year to submit one name to the Association. Since their choice must be unanimous, the award is not given regularly or often. “Shaw Smith has been a mentor to hundreds of people across the country, humanizing campus involvement in a way we’d all like to emulate,” N.A.C.A. chairman of the board Dennis Pruitt said.

Smith has been involved with the organization since its beginnings fourteen years ago. In addition, he was Association of College Unions International president in 1974, and received an award from the A.C.U.I. in 1972. Union Program Advisor Lyman Collins praised Smith as a recognized “grandfather of the Union field.” He admitted that the award is long overdue. “After all, Shaw Smith is still at Davidson,” Collins said.

Smith, a Mt. Olive, North Carolina native, graduated from Davidson in 1939 and received his Master of Arts degree from UNC—Chapel Hill. He has said that “A Union should be a laboratory for the humanities—a way of personalizing the academic process. The union doesn’t substitute for anything or any place else, but it extends everything else through experience and opportunity.”

The N.A.C.A. award reflects Smith’s nationwide reputation in the field of student activities programming, and underscores his success with the Davidson College Union. How does the Union “granddad” feel about the honor? “I plan to bind it,” he said.

Elizabeth Smiley ‘84