Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Center Moves Focus  
By JEFF MANN ’84

After narrowly surviving a bid to close it last year, the Center for Special Studies continues this year with a slightly different focus. Director of the Center, political science professor Lou Ortmayer, said the Center is “trying to move towards its emphasis on international studies” mandated last year by the Administration. He said the Center will continue to act as an “umbrella organization for all students pursuing interdisciplinary studies,” which may include designing one’s own major, as well as initiating programs having to do with the Center’s international focus.

The Center has no permanent faculty assigned to it this year. Instead of receiving several faculty positions to divide among several teachers, professors must now seek release time from their departments to teach at the Center. Last year, there were two and one-half faculty positions assigned to the Center, or enough for about five classes per term. Aside from Ortmayer, only philosophy professor Bob Maydole was released to teach one class this year. Ortmayer said he was “underwhelmed” by the response from the departments in releasing professors to teach at the Center, and hopes “for a good bit more participation on the part of the faculty.”

Ortmayer said Fall term this year was a “start-up” with only one class, on international political economy, taught by him. Four visiting speakers also conducted two forums on Mideast and Polish affairs.

Dr. Turpin at the Center

This term, former UN Ambassador Lafayette Diggs of Liberia is teaching two classes on African politics. Philip Palmedo of the Brookhaven/MIT National Laboratory will come in February to speak on energy and development in Africa. Diggs and Palmedo are classmates of College Vice-President for Academic Affairs T.C. Price Zimmermann from Williams ’56, who helped arrange their visits. Led by Maydole, six professors and College Chaplain Charlie Summers are team-teaching a seminar on the nuclear arms race this term.

---

208 Squirrels Killed  
By DAVID RESNIK ’85

The Davidson town and campus police recently conducted a “squirrel shoot” to reduce the community’s overcrowded and dangerous squirrel population. The Town Police have killed 208 squirrels since they began hunting in early November. The Campus police killed 62 squirrels over Thanksgiving break.

Mayor MacCormac said that “the town is not interested in squirrel shooting as such” unless it is necessary for eliminating “a real health and safety problem.” Davidson Police Chief Jack Warlick received numerous complaints about the squirrels from town residents during the last year. The squirrels have looted gardens, frayed wires, invaded attics, and stopped up gutters with nuts.

Last summer, retired Biology professor emeritus Tom Daggy “told the mayor something ought to be done” about the squirrel problem. The town called in North Carolina Wildlife Commission Biologist Terry Sharpe to study the situation. He recommended shooting as the most effective way of diminishing the population, because trapping is inefficient and poison is too dangerous.Daggy says that the overcrowding posed an even bigger problem for the squirrels. Daggy says there were “obviously too many squirrels” because they were “developing diseases” and “were undersize.” Daggy says a bumper crop of nuts last year combined with a lack of natural predators caused a surge in the squirrel population. When squirrels, like most animals, become “more crowded,” says Daggy, “they become more aggressive.” Overpopulated squirrels are not as afraid of people and often run in front of cars, according to Daggy.

The Town Police shot the squirrels with .410 gauge shotguns and .22 caliber rifles. They only killed squirrels on public property and on private property upon request. The police made sure to shoot the squirrels “at a high angle,” according to Chief Warlick. The Town Police gave two members of the ROTC Department and a few other people special permission to help with the squirrel hunt. Captain Hughes says the campus police took similar measures; they never shot below a 45-degree angle and used short-range target ammunition. Mayor MacCormac says the town wanted “a limited number of people [in the hunt]... whose marksmanship was beyond question... and who would proceed in an orderly manner.” The town approved the hunt last summer but decided to wait until the beginning of squirrel season before proceeding.

Many residents ate the dead squirrels, and the town police froze the leftovers for later consumption. The campus police gave their dead squirrels to many of the janitors and maintenance men. “What was killed was eaten,” said Captain Hughes. The Town Police will finish their squirrel hunt at the end of this week. Mayor MacCormac says the town will assess its effectiveness and “see if we have a problem.” MacCormac says the town has not studied the issue long enough but admits that it might be “an ongoing problem.”

Profs. Gable, Maloney, Manning, Hess, and himself are contributing to the course “in their spare time” on top of a normal teaching load. Dr. William Turpin is teaching a seminar on the international monetary system this term. Dr. Turpin is a former Rhodes Scholar retired from the State Department. Ortmayer said plans for the future were still being worked on, but he hopes to “discover more untapped Davidson resources” such as Dr. David Long ’59 who spoke earlier this year on the Middle East. Ortmayer is also seeking outside funding for a forum on international business similar to last year’s Ethics Institute.

The College established the Center in 1970 as the Honors College under Prof. Frontis Johnson. The Honors College became the Center for Honors Studies when Prof. Earl MacCormac took over as Dean in 1973. Prof. Frank Bliss became Dean in 1973 at the again-renamed Center for Special Studies. There was no name change this year, but Ortmayer is Director of the Center, not Dean.