In all, perhaps,
but I should have demanded more of
myself,

Frazier Worth '82

ERRATUM
In his letter of January 15 to the Editor, James Gelly stated that Professor
Frank Bliss occupies a full-time teaching position as Dean of the Center for
Special Studies. Mr. Gelly was incorrect in this statement. Dr. Bliss divides
his teaching hours between the Department and the Center.

Editor: Stewart Cauley

Executive Editor: Brian Butler

News Editors: Jeffrey Mann, Elizabeth Smiley

Sports Editor: Steve Soud

International Editors: James Gelly, Dan Turk

The Davidsonian does not in any
way endorse the opinions expressed in
letters that we print.

Stewart Cauley, Editor

We require that letters be signed
and include the author’s phone number
and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editor, Stewart Cauley. We reserve the right not to print
letters that (a) function as advertisements; (b) contain innuendo, off-color
slurs, or inside jokes; (c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in
many letters printed on the same topic. We also reserve the right to condense
very long letters.

Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams

Calendar Editor: Susan Graves

Photo Editor: Elizabeth Elkin

Photographers: Anderson Scott, Randy Stroud, Neil
Murray, Eric Long, Kelly Sandburg

The proposal to provide teaching
credits for supervision of theses is intended to provide impetus to professors
to encourage seniors to undertake the writing of theses, according to Dr. Zimmermann. He said that the writing of a
thesis is “a highly desirable exercise for
those who are prepared academically.”

He said that one of the goals of the
EPC for a long time has been to strengthen the senior year. Many faculty members feel that many Davidson
students are merely “ticking off the requirements [required courses] for their
majors,” and are taking the classes
without becoming independent practitioners of their discipline.

The proposals made by the EPC are
intended to encourage the individual departments to institute senior programs
and seminars, and to strengthen the senior year in general, Dr. Zimmermann
said.

by Jeff Holland

Staff: Mark Sheffield, John Haveman, Lucy Everett,
Jeff Holland, John Verdi, Anne Goodwin, John
Krotchko, John Lusk, Lisa Buckley, Ivy Goodman

Graphics: Susan Myers

Advertising Manager: Karis Hericteitr

Layout: James Moore, Jeff Herrin, Lisa Boardman

The Davidsonian is published weekly by students of Davidson College. Please address all correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 7187, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone: 704/892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the 3rd floor of the Alvarez College Union.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, January 22, 1982