Volume LXX, Number 18

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

April 1982

The 1987 Program

The First in a Three-Part Series

This story on the history of recent development at Davidson is the first in a series of three articles on local development. Next week, part two will detail development in the Davidson community. A final analysis of the benefits of planned development will follow.

Davidson College will have a very different campus in the near future if present plans for development are realized.

Under the auspices of the 1987 Program, the Development Office is working on modernization of existing buildings and has many new buildings on the drawing board. A new look for the campus is underway. Nearly six million dollars has already been spent on three major renovations. The final cost will be much higher.

On February 15, 1974, the Budget, Buildings, and Grounds Sub-Committee on Campus Planning issued a report which cited major areas of improvement that needed immediate attention. The group, chaired by Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze, said the College’s most urgent need was student housing. The 150-student increase in enrollment since that report was issued has only exacerbated the housing crunch. In order to meet the increasing demand on housing, the College built Irwin and Knox dorms on the northeast end of Patterson Court. These dorms opened in September of this year. Student housing is tighter than ever, due to the withdrawal of perimeter housing for faculty use.

The Sub-Committee identified the renovation and modernization of the Martin Chemical Laboratory as another urgent need. The building, constructed in 1941, underwent a major renovation in 1978-1979. After going for over 35 years without any real improvements, it lagged far behind the needs of the Chemistry department.

The Vail Commons, completed at the beginning of this year, met concerns of not only the Sub-Committee but also the Trustees. Prior to the opening of the Commons, all freshmen and many of the upperclassmen who did not eat on Patterson Court ate in Richards and Bailey houses. Although these houses were designed to feed only 80 or so students each, they served as many as 400. Furthermore, the College needed a facility where it could serve large groups at College-sponsored meals. Although the Chambers gallery formerly served this function, the new facility will both solve the overcrowding problem and provide better food service through better facilities. The Trustees’ wishes for a satisfactory mass dining facility have been met.

Historical renovations have also begun on the precinct house, that cur-

Continued on page 7

Alternative Radio

WDAV will continue to provide an alternative music programming service. Beginning May 3, 1982, Flipsides and Jazzsides, currently being broadcast from 10 PM to 1 AM, will begin at 11 PM to allow for another hour of daily classical music programming.

Alternative radio attempts to play the best of today’s rock, new-wave, jazz, and reggae not for its commercial value or popularity, but only for its quality. Anything played on local stations is off-limits, as well as anything that was No. 1 on the charts after about 1960.

Station Manager John Clark’s decision follows a three-month evaluation of alternative programming by himself and the WDAV Advisory Board. The Advisory Board is composed of 25 citizens from the eight-county listening area. Two students (Sherburne Laughlin, ‘83, and Lisa Thomas, ‘85) and three professors (Bill Lawing, Ed Palmer, and Tom Clark) currently serve on the strictly advisory—not decision-making—group.

Clark issued a memorandum to the WDAV staff on January 13, 1982, explaining his reasons for questioning alternative programming. The current programming, he said, was “not well defined” and “lacked focus.” The disc jockey was allowed to choose the whole program himself, the only criterion for selection being “music not heard on other stations.” This criterion, said Clark, was not enough. A well-thought-out format and a limited listener-request time slot were needed.

Alternative music director Jonathon Glance, along with disc jockeys Jon Lawry and Todd Swofford, met with the advisory board in March. The board’s initial support for alternative radio was not large. Says Clark: “They had a narrow notion of what alternative radio was.”

Continued on page 7