Movie Reviews with Matt Morris

— Arthur
(Arthur [1981] Directed by Steve Gordon; starring Dudley Moore and Liza Minnelli)
Rating: ***
Viewer’s Guide: Adult situations, some strong language

Arthur, this week’s Pop Film, is an amusing, bittersweet movie that gets a lot more mileage than expected primarily because of the hysterical performance by desert-dry Sir John Gielgud (!) as Arthur’s butler, Hobson. The plot concerns an average millionaire, Arthur (Dudley Moore), who tries to stay smashed as often as possible, presumably so he can forget his engagement to a girl he doesn’t love. It is a planned marriage by the money-bagged families, and if Arthur decides not to marry Girl No. 1, his $700 million budget will be cut. Enter Girl No. 2—Liza Minnelli. Naturally, Arthur falls head over heels in love (literally in this movie), and by the end he has sworn off all whiskey as he and Ms. Minnelli stroll off into the land of milk and money.

As I said, Arthur is no classic, and it isn’t trying to be. It’s really a very gentle film, directed at human relationships and growing up. John Gielgud’s casting is genius and he and Moore make the best comedy pair since Laurel and Hardy. I guess my only real problem with the movie is that after a while, Moore’s drunk act gets old and his character becomes unintentionally pathetic. The ending is frustrating too: Arthur doesn’t care that he won’t have his money anymore since he’s got Liza; she, on the other hand, wants a package deal: Arthur and his money. I was left wondering whether she really loved him or not. But perhaps I’m being too hard on this film. It was a monstrous sleeper hit in 1981 (earning some $77 million) and that says something. If for no other reason, see Arthur for Sir John Gielgud’s performance. You'll find this is definitely a movie where the butler does it.

— The African Queen
(The African Queen [1951] Directed by John Huston; screenplay by James Agee; starring Humphrey Bogart, Katherine Hepburn, Peter Bull, Robert Morley, and Theodore Bikel)
Rating: ***½
Viewer’s Guide: Rated G

Sweetheart, this is Bogey talkin’ to ya. Der’s good news—that gang known as Fine Films has finally lived up ta its name with dis week’s movin’ picher. It’s called The African Queen (catchy title, huh?). Not only does it have a good title, it’s also got me, the one and only Bogey, acting and so forth. Oh and der’s also dis skinny dame named Kate Hepburn in it. Y’see we play dese people on the lam, so...

RATINGS SYSTEM:
**** Classic; a must-see movie.
***½ Very good; well worth it.
*** Good; no masterpiece but a fine show.
**½ Mixed bag; some good, some bad.
*½ Total trash; don't bother.
** Ugh! Pretty bad, but could have been worse.
X Miss this film at all cost, or better yet catch a revival showing of “Attack of the Killer Tomatoes.”to speak, from the Germans in Africa 1915. Oh boy—we have plenty of adventures and so on and it’s real romantic and hell, I even got an Oscar for my outstanding performance—course I shoulda had plenty o’ dem by now what with The Maltese Falcon and Casablanca under my belt. But dat’s show biz, y’know? Anyway, I got one for dis picher—no—dis FINE film an’ I’m quite pleased. Kate didn’t get much, but that broad’s already got four of those metal guys, so what’s she complainin’ about? I never thought she was much of an actress anyway, I mean can you see her as a gangster in one of my movies? Hah! Give me a Lauren Bacall any day. Anyway, go see dis movie—I mean after all, my good friend and film critic Matt Morris [Hah!—Eds.] gave dis film ***// so ya know dat means somethin’, right? . . . Well, look who’s here, it’s my lovely costar Kate Hepburn! 

Get your hands off me, you pig! You dirty old man, where do you get off saying I’m a bad actress? Didn’t you see On Golden Pond you frog? On Golden Swamp if you ask me. hah! You-you-you swine! How dare you—

Ah shaddup! Now you listen to me, Bogey. I’ve had about all I can take—

So have I—boys, let her have it. BUDDABUDDABUDDABUDDABUDDA

Now dat’s the way I like my women—seen, but not heard. So Davidson, see The African Queen and uh, here’s lookin’ at you, kid.

Finales: King Vidor

In 1934, director King Vidor lensed a film called Our Daily Bread, which was to have a lasting effect on the survivors of the Great Depression. It told the story of a group of migrant workers who banded together and learned to live in a time of uncertainty. Critics at the time called Our Daily Bread a communistic allegory and largely damned it. In fifty years’ time, however, views change, or rather the truth becomes more visible and Our Daily Bread has been welcomed into the classic group of films from the 1930s. In spite of its somewhat socialistic tendencies, the film moreover stressed a recurring theme in all of Vidor’s works: the individual. It was King Vidor who filmed John Gilbert painfully looking inside his soul for answers to life in The Big Parade (1926). It was Vidor who showed how a cruel society could affect anyone, especially the little man, in his film The Crowd (1928). It was Vidor who gave us, for one brief beautiful moment, a glimpse of the real Judy Garland when he filmed her singing “Somewhere over the Rainbow” in The Wizard of Oz (1939). King Vidor showed the faceless crowds in movie theaters time and time again that they were anything but faceless. Each was special, each together, yet each alone. King Vidor died alone on Monday at the age of 88. He will be missed.

~ Dudley Moore and a friend