takes to lead - Learn what it takes. College military science courses are courses in leadership development. You learn techniques
involved in the management of resources, techniques that are applicable to any management job. Another important leadership characteristic is interpersonal
relationships. Things are accomplished by people, and the kind of relationship established goes a long way in determining your success
as a leader. Whether you intend to become a manager in a military or civilian career, Army ROTC can give
you a competitive edge. Don't wait until after college to get practical management experience. Add leadership to your class schedule.

ARMY ROTC. LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD.

For More Information Contact:
CPT Al Brauer
ROTC Dept.
892-2000 ext. 336

To the Editor,

This week, for the first time since we installed the new computers at Davidson, a student has reported the unauthorized
intrusion of another student into a user-file directory on the Prime 750. This intrusion involved unauthorized use of a password
to gain access to another student’s directory, review of a file in that directory, and transfer of that file to
another directory. I have discussed these acts with the student who violated the security of the directory and with the
Dean of Students. To remove any doubt about the character of these or similar acts, I list below the position
of the Computer Services Center on the security of User File Directories:

1. User File Directories (accounts assigned to users) are the property of the people who own the directory; the security
of information in these directories is important to the owners of the directories and to the staff of the CSC.
2. The owners of User File Directories (UFD) will work only in their own directories and will not violate the
security of directories that belong to other people.
3. People who use the computer will not read the contents of directories other than their own, nor will they
transfer information from another person’s directory without the permission of that person.
4. Unauthorized review, alteration, or transfer of information stored in the computer constitutes theft; it matters not whether these acts
occur in an academic or nonacademic setting.

We are asking the Dean of Students to review these considerations and extend the honor code so that it guides
the actions of those at Davidson College.

Seth Allen
Director

An Inauspicious Trip, But a Friendly Treatment

Davidson College has a well-deserved reputation not only for its educational system but also for its friendly atmosphere, which can
be felt by every newcomer. Since I am the newest comer who came from the People’s Republic of China on
November 21, 1981, experiencing an inauspicious flight to the United States but receiving a friendly treatment at Davidson, my experience
is the freshest and most profound.

The airplane which I was boarding left Peking Airport for San Francisco at 10:25 on November 21. After an international
flight of about eleven hours, I was food-sick, air-First trip to the United States and in fact my first, which
took me sick and jet-lagged. What is more, I was astonished to find one piece of luggage broken and the
other missing at the San Francisco Airport. No words could describe how worried I was at that time. In this
totally strange country, I had no friends or relatives to whom I could turn. With my suitcase and air-ticket in
hand, I was like an orphan, fearing what disaster would befall me on my way to Charlotte and Davidson. At
11 p.m., our airplane landed at Charlotte Airport where I did not expect to be received by anyone from Davidson,
for I thought that my cable of intended departure from Peking might not have reached Davidson Admissions Office or might
be missing on the way just like my luggage. Besides, it was already late at night upon my arrival. But
it was beyond my expectation that Mr. Bolding, who was supposed to be my host in Davidson, met me at
the airport, helping me with my broken luggage and helping me write a missing luggage report. Afterwards, he took me
home, which is not in Peking, but in Davidson. In my host family’s house, I was treated just as a
member of the family except in food. For Mrs. Bolding, on hearing of my American food sickness, cooked some “Chinese
food” without which I would have starved to death. Thanks to the care given by Mr. and Mrs. Bolding, I
soon recovered.

Learning of my arrival, Tony Dick, my roommate who remained single last term, came enquiring whether I was fully recovered
and what I needed. Acting as a tour guide, he showed me around the campus. At that time, I could
not get my Webster’s Dictionary which was in my missing luggage and wanted to borrow one from the library. Unfortunately,
there was one copy belonging to the reference desk which could not be taken out. After I talked my problem
over with James Moore, a sophomore student working in the library at the moment, he immediately offered his own Webster’s
Dictionary to me as a gift. Mr. and Mrs. Bolding’s hospitality, Tony Dick’s concern, and James Moore’s generosity filled me
with warmth and at the same time made me wonder why they should have done all this to a stranger
like me. Is it because of their curiosity? Not at all. It is because of nothing but friendliness which is
the characteristic of every Davidsonian whom I have met. This personal experience of mine has proved the friendly feature of
Davidson College which I read from the college catalogue and heard from other people and of which I was a
little skeptical before I came. However, seeing is believing. In my opinion, Davidson College is like a small world where
everyone enjoys a unique atmosphere of friendly human relationships in addition to a highly competitive and academic atmosphere. It is
really fortunate for me to stay and study in such an environment that will never fail to stimulate me to
work hard and contribute to Davidson.

Yo Chien
