Boho Ponde

Liberal Arts Education

As I near the end of my formal liberal arts training, I have turned my thoughts to asking what it
might have all meant. This is no doubt pretty standard procedure for ripening aspirants to degrees in pre-profundity.

I began thinking in serious terms about the possible value of higher education at about the same time as I
had my first real job. This also is probably not unusual. At the time (I was sixteen), my conclusion was
that the purpose of any education beyond what the law required could have only one purpose—to keep whoever was lucky
enough to have it from having to cut, brush, lift heavy crates, and push shovels all his life. That is
to say that the difference between a man who was educated and one that was not lay in where he
did his sweating—whether on the squash court or on the job. Needless to say, this was before Peter Berger and
the concept of anomy were known to me.

Now that I’m on the other end of a college experience (as university catalogs and SGA candidates like to call
what we are up to around here) these thoughts have grown up a bit. I now see the difference between
the educated and the rabble merely as one of understanding the situation he is in. The uneducated blue-collar type feels
that it is only his own unillustrious position in a basically sound machine that leads to his feelings of alienation,
deprivation, and loneliness. So he spends his life believing that if he had gotten some advanced education he would be
a bigger wheel in the system and therefore reap its wondrous benefits. That is, of course, if he can squeeze
into the picture at all which may mean that he has to be white, male, or Christian. But that tirade
is for another day.

The liberally educated, on the other hand, have the distinct privilege of seeing the world as a circus of blind
leading the blinder. This does not necessitate the cynicism that it might imply. I think most of the intellectual community
remains dedicated to the possibilities of humanity. A small number of these even try to advance those possibilities. And that’s
great. But in our solitary moments, we are always able to remember that nobody really understands all these numbers anyway
(to paraphrase a famous U.S. budget director).

But let us not undersell the value of having learned that there’s really nobody in charge. A few hundred years
ago Martin Luther came to realize that the people who were running the show in most of Europe not only
didn’t know what they were talking about, but were striking fear into the hearts of thousands just for the hell
of it. He is just one example of the stalwart few who know enough to see that the system is
full of it. This isn’t to say he made any improvements—that's not for me to say and may well be
impossible. But there is virtue in exposing authority and society for what it is, if only to keep it from
going too far in any one of its many possible self-destructive directions.

College Press Service

Huxley’s Brave New World comes to mind (I hope the folks in Iredell County don’t get hold of this). Worshipping
the Great God Ford sounds ridiculous in book form. But when we look around and see that we are actually
doing it, we experience the notion of the absurd as only the liberally educated can.

And what are the mechanics of all this sublime enlightenment? Even before we came to college, we were told things
like “Liberal arts will teach you to think.” “You will learn to see all sides of a situation.” “You will
learn to value other points of view.” There are more, but you get the idea. You all remember. But what
makes all this happen? What does education do to give us these abilities, to whatever extent we ever have them?
Here are a few answers. More could be added.

The ability to stereotype responsibly: We are, in the course of our schooling, warned constantly of the dangers of generalizations.
At the same time, great thought, through the history of humankind, has been great because of its meaning for a
general, even universal situation. So the ability to link characteristics and their manifestations consistently is necessary to the understanding of
any situation. Stereotype does not have to be a bad word.

The ability to think and speak in metaphor: This little gem has paved the way for literary, social, and political
virtuosi since square one. The Old Testament writers knew its power, as did Hieronymus Bosch and James Joyce.

The ability to perceive paradox: This is the one that most forms of authority (parental, governmental, educational) find dangerous in
their constituents. Need I say more?

Most of what has been said or written about education over the years has been in terms of why. These
are my thoughts on what and how. I hope you have enjoyed them.

There isn’t going to be a party at the Nasty Rathole this Saturday.

John Hartman ’82

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9 April 1982
