Julian Bond Speaks in Love

Georgia state senator Julian Bond spoke on the topic of “The Political Outlook of the ’80s” in Love Auditorium on
Monday, April 26. In his speech, he blasted President Reagan’s policies and called for the audience to help “purge Congress
of the Moral Majoritarians and the rabid Right” in the upcoming Congressional elections.

Bond’s speech was preceded by a dinner in his honor at the Dupont Room of the Commons. He answered questions
after his speech and attended a reception in the Morrison Room. A private meeting with members of the Black Student
Coalition planned for 3:00 was canceled because Bond’s flight was delayed.

The BSC, the Union Speakers Committee, and the Martin Luther King Lecture Series each contributed $500 toward Bond’s engagement fee,
according to former BSC Speaker Committee Chairman Gabriella Robinson ('84). Bond was the first speaker of the Martin Luther King
Lecture Series, established by College President Spencer to bring a prominent black speaker to the campus each year, according to
Union Speaker Committee Chairman Sherman Allen.

In his speech, Bond said that the country is being run as an anti-black “conservative confederacy” by men with “small
minds and even smaller dreams” who have redistributed income from the bottom up and “reintroduced Big Brother to the American
scene.” Bond said, “In civil rights generally, a retreat has been sounded.” He cited the weakening of the Civil Rights
Voting Act of 1965 several times, calling it “the most effective civil rights law of this century.” Bond said that
“even Moby Dick would slip through” President Reagan’s safety net of social programs. He cited a large number of statistics
and studies to refute the President’s assertion that the poor would not be hurt by his budget cuts. Bond said
that one-third of all black families needed food stamps last year, and that “the disproportionate number of blacks in poverty
remains proof that white supremacy is a part of mainstream American culture.”

Bond spoke out strongly against current U.S. foreign policy. He said that military spending is wasteful and creates few jobs,
and that promoting aggressive militarism is “political capital earned at the expense of people living at the American edge.” He
said that the U.S. lost in Ethiopia, Angola, and Mozambique because it supported reactionary colonialism, and that it will lose
in...

Development After

The Final Article in a Three-Part Series

This is the final in a three-part focus on Development at Davidson. The college’s developmental policy is analyzed in this
segment. Davidson has started planning for development beyond the scope of the 1987 program. Earlier, in the first part of
this series, details of the program of development from 1974–1987 were presented. Along with the College, the town of Davidson
has well-developed plans for continual reasonable growth as a community. The Trustees have already begun to deliberate upon developmental goals
to be pursued in five years when the 1987 program is completed. The Strategic Planning Committee is specifically charged with
the formulation of these long-range goals, which will affect the whole Davidson community.

The office of Development expects to reach the goal of 35 million dollars for the 1987 program by 1984. At
this time, it will announce an extended goal of 50 million dollars. Most of the increase will go to cover
increased building costs and inflation, as a result of an update specified by the 1974 report on development from the
subcommittee on Campus Planning. The College is currently engaged in a massive capital expansion program. Thus far, few of the
goals of that...Capital development goals have been realized. One major goal was to build dorms to alleviate the housing shortage.
Currently, the situation is tighter than it has ever been, seemingly due to two factors. Firstly, Business Manager Robert Currie
has decided to remove perimeter housing for faculty use because housing is so expensive and hard to find in the
Davidson area. Housing serves as non-monetary compensation to augment the generally lower salaries at Davidson, compared with other North Carolina
colleges and universities. Secondly, the population of Davidson has increased by 150 students to 1400 since 1974, a policy of
expansion that was apparently unanticipated fifteen years ago.

The removal of perimeter housing is very expensive. An eight-person house, aside from the initial several thousand dollar renovation, made
into a faculty home costs the college about $8,000 a year in lost rent. At this rate, one wonders why
Davidson doesn’t buy the professors' houses outright or raise their salaries so that they can find their own homes.

In 1971, national fraternities were asked to stop using a selective bidding system if they were to continue to use
college facilities. It was felt that the selectivity of fraternities was an unhealthy form of social discrimination. With the completion
of the attractive Vail Commons and tough new fiscal restrictions soon to be imposed by Business Manager Currie, it seems
that those non-fraternity eating houses that are truly self-selective and do not require oral encouragements are in danger of closing.

The cost of the new athletic facility has doubled since its initial estimation. Building will be commencing soon. An architectural
model has been shown to a parents' organization, though details are not currently made available by the College. The College
has a “conservative” fiscal policy, which dictates that it will not borrow money. The effects of this policy on the
increased costs of building are unknown.

Davidson’s developmental goals thus far seem to be centered around the expansion of the physical plant without regard to ultimate
developmental goals. The whole college community must soon begin dialogue on such important yet undecided questions as: the ultimate size
of the student body, just how much growth is reasonable, and what Davidson’s real goals as an educational institution are.
The current process of administrative, stopgap planning and intuition has proved to be problematic in the development of goals, let
alone in their realization. There will undoubtedly have to be a much greater emphasis on student and professorial endorsement, especially
in light of what is likely to be continued lowering of governmental subsidy.

Will we need a new math building to replace the current Jackson Court inadequate facilities? New Biology facilities? How will
the administration expand further in Chambers without loss of classrooms? Davidson has a five-star image. As a result of the
efforts of the 1987 program, it will have a five-star physical plant. It must soon be decided what is necessary
to turn Davidson into a five-star college.

John Richards '83
