Withered old men provide company for an enjoyable evening

Booze Brothers Get Culture Again!!? Sure! We do anything for kicks. And so with two tickets to ride, a pack
of smokes, and brews for a boost, we bolt. After cruising down I-77 at criminal velocity, we arrive, wearing matching
double-breasted blue blazers with Davidson College pocket insignias and sporting mirror shades (for that blend-in effect), at Ovens Auditorium to
catch the Charlotte Symphony.

Ovens is a nice joint, carpet on the walls and all, so we used plastic cups to spit dip into,
and we strongly suggest you do the same. The people really seemed to appreciate it. Ah yes, the people: A
bopping throng of shriveling old men and women dressed for winter funerals. Also present were a mild variety of “men
together often” touting very-trimmed beards and narrow shoulders. When the lights finally went down, as shades of gray (suits) dimmed
to black, a subtle rasp remained of aging men having trouble breathing. What a show! The music was pure; no
amplification, no distortion pedals. Indeed, the Ovens Auditorium acoustics enabled us to feel the music as it grooved in and
around us. This sensation was a novelty; however, even more impressive was the actual performance of the musicians—the art of
symphony. It is an act of about fifty folks playing their part of a very big production. Each musician puts
on a separate show...watch ’em wiggle, watch ’em move. The double bass player sways in a transcendental rhythm while his
left hand applies an exotic massage to the fretboard. To the back of the stage, the percussion unit mingles amongst
all the toys; blocks, clappers, cymbals, and the ever-so-powerful tympani and gongs. These guys have a lot of fun. In
contrast, the string players are a serious lot: women in solid black and men with good posture. The guy up
front is the conductor, the make-it-happen man, the interpreter. This dude has got the tunes at his feet, and he
responds to the musicians’ attentiveness with some rhythmical choreography, breezing vibes, and lightning crashes. If you can visualize this, he
is like a madman dodging nonexistent bats. Got it? Good deal!

As a result of the whole production, we were lifted away into fantasia-like fantasies. When the show ended (with a
bang, believe it!) the crowd rose to their feet and began to applaud, to show their appreciation for what was
truly a cleansing, enjoyable, aurally stimulating experience. The guest soloist came back for about two curtain calls—we thought that was
plenty. However, some guy in front of us didn’t share our opinion. He simply wouldn’t stop slapping his flippers together.
We were waiting for his hands to start spewing blood all about; instead, the crowd began clapping again, and Miss
Solo came out again to receive her rosy reward. So why not give it a shot... The Symphony! Be aware
that the tickets are expensive ($12.50 for mezzanine seating). You can expect to hear two one-hour sets with a fifteen-minute
half-time. All Charlotte Symphony concerts are held in Ovens Auditorium (located on Independence Blvd next to the Charlotte Coliseum, with
free parking across the street at IHOP).

Semesters continued from page 1

The Committee will look at ten other schools that have recently adopted the credit-hours system along with a semester schedule.
Once “they know enough about it [credit hours],” says Johnston, the SGA will conduct informal polls and hold open meetings.
If the Credit-Hours Study Committee “comes to a conclusion,” says Johnston, “then we [the SGA] will write up a proposal”
and submit it to the EPC. Johnston also feels that the student referendum had little effect upon the faculty’s decision,
adding that “most of them [the faculty] had their minds made up” already. Johnston says that the SGA referendum showed
the faculty that 77 percent of the students disapproved of the original semester proposal, but that it claimed nothing about
the amended version. He feels that the faculty could have made a fairer decision if they had received more input
from students. Johnston believes that the best way for students to influence important decisions is “to talk to the professors,
contact the SGA, or write to the trustees.” President Spencer appointed the SPC last May to study the adoption of
a semester system after a poll conducted by Dr. Richard Bernard found that a majority of the faculty would like
to examine the issue.with the symphony: satisfying for those of you interested in classical music, informative for those of you
who are musicians, and bloody hilarious for those of you who enjoy getting drunk and laughing at people.

Semesters Yield Fewer Pressures For Athletes
By PEGGY PIEROTTI ’85

The Athletic Department foresees many positive and negative changes in its intercollegiate sports programs due to the change to semesters.
According to Ed Farrell, Director of Athletics, the switch to semesters is a “mixed bag,” and he plans on both
good and bad results from the change.

The most important advantages of the schedule change will occur in the fall, according to Farrell. The school’s earlier starting
date will give the athletes more time to practice without incurring the expenses of having them on campus early. Furthermore,
under the present system, fall term exams place a lot of pressure on athletes who are trying to finish their
sports seasons. Football players, for example, have their last game on the Saturday before exams. Farrell says that fall sports
also have the added problem of post-season tournaments now falling during both exam week and Thanksgiving break. Switching to semesters
will undoubtedly relieve the pressures on the athletes, according to Farrell.

Farrell says that winter sports will have a major problem with the semester system, however. The extended vacation seriously limits
the practice sessions for all the winter sports, especially men and women’s basketball and wrestling. Farrell says it will obviously
be “both expensive and difficult” to maintain practices, but they are necessary for the success of the teams. Many other
schools, however, have demonstrated their ability to overcome extended vacations. Winter also offers the fewest number of major intercollegiate sports,
so it will offer fewer problems with adapting to changes than either fall or spring seasons.

The change to semesters will have a varied effect on the spring sports. Under the term system, members of the
baseball and tennis teams, for example, have to stay at Davidson over spring break. This problem will be solved by
the schedule change. The earlier conclusion of the school year, however, will make post-season and tournament games more difficult. According
to Farrell, the change will not have any negative effects on the recruiting outlook. Any difference made by the change
“would tend to be positive.”

Humanities, Languages
Continued from page 1

course changes.” Neither does he see a similar outlook for the History department. “There will be no major overhaul, no
need to change the major or area requirements.” Like Dr. Partin and many of his colleagues, John Kelton, chairman of
the psychology department, faces no “massive reorganization.” Nevertheless, he does not eliminate the possibility of change. “Anything is open for
consideration. We make some changes every year.” The only adjustment directly related to the semester plan would be in the
sequential Psychology 110, 111, and 112 courses. Dr. Kelton is sure that it can be made to fit the new
calendar.

Problem With Languages
Unfortunately, not all departments will adjust as smoothly as others. The sequential nature of introductory language courses poses a severe
problem, according to Lois Kemp, head of the Spanish department. She maintains that keeping a three-term language requirement under the
new system would cause a staffing problem. While most introductory students were entering their third required term, many freshmen would
be starting the sequence. Dr. Kemp hopes that this overload “won’t reduce our proficiency level.” She is concerned that under
the semester system, Spanish professors will be teaching 13 to 15 hours per week. This would be necessary to maintain
intensive daily classwork. Overall, Dr. Kemp anticipates many readjustments in her department.

The other language departments, however, have a problem with required sequential courses. Hallam Walker, head of the French department, is
optimistic. While he foresees numerous revisions, he maintains “we are looking forward to it.” Dr. Walker, like Dr. Kemp, sees
a three-semester language requirement. He would have classes meet on the Monday/Wednesday/Friday plan, with one additional class period. Drill sessions
would continue as usual. Upper-level courses will remain “essentially the same,” according to Dr. Walker, if not strengthened.

Like the languages, the art department is faced with possible changes. According to its chairman, Dr. Larry Ligo, under the
semester plan, “our courses cannot be taught in the same way.” His department plans to re-examine its curriculum and its
requirements. However, Dr. Ligo does not perceive this as too detrimental. “I don’t foresee that any courses will be eliminated.”
