Increasing controversy over the defense of Europe; a decline in U.S.-Soviet relations; and a European realization that political and military events outside the Alliance could threaten Europe. On the issue of defense, Graebner defined the controversy over President Reagan’s statement suggesting that a nuclear war might be limited to Europe as a prime point of strain between the U.S. and Europe. Graebner believes this strain is exacerbated by the cooling relations between the U.S. and the U.S.S.R., while Western Europe is more interested than ever in détente between East and West. Dr. Graebner noted that Europe has much more to lose than the U.S. in terms of security and economic gains if it does not deal with the Soviet Union and is therefore more pragmatic in its views of Soviet activities not affecting the Alliance. The West Europeans, Dr. Graebner said, are afraid that a rash U.S. response to a Soviet intervention in the third world could eventually lead to a war in Europe. This fear, which Graebner felt is not unjustified, further strains the Alliance. The answer to assuaging these strains lies, according to Graebner, primarily in a U.S. realization that “practically no country in the world favors Soviet aggression” and that when there is a legitimate Soviet threat, the formation of a strong international coalition against such a threat will naturally result. Such a move away from U.S. unilateral action against the U.S.S.R. combined with an increased attempt by the West Europeans to understand the U.S. position would, in Graebner’s view, strengthen Western unity.

Graebner Expounds America’s Need for Realism
By MARVIN OVERBY ’83

On the improvement of American diplomacy: “The major problem is that of understanding the forces of the world and facing them realistically. . . . It seems to me that the United States is at odds with much of world opinion and I think the reason why it is is that it has notions about the Soviet Union, about the need of power, about the nature of change in the Third World that places it at odds not only with the Third World, but with Europe as well. . . . I think the first task is to judge why it is that so much of the world’s at odds with us and our policies.

On world revolutions: “I can’t think of any time when the Soviet Union has actually stimulated a revolution. It has examined revolutions already underway and if the revolutions are leftist or radically led it might support them, but a revolution has to rise and fall on its own, which means that no outside force . . . will necessarily control it or benefit from it when it succeeds. . . . The forces for change are indigenous. . . . If you insist that all change is Russian inspired, you . . . keep telling yourself that these indigenous pressures are either non-existent or they aren't very important. So, it’s almost impossible to have a good, clear program that faces an indigenous problem if you keep telling yourself that’s really

Worried About Being Pregnant? We Care.
Free Pregnancy Testing Daily (No appointment necessary)
For Answers And Action On
- Abortion
- Birth Control

THE DAVIDSONIAN/29. October 1982.Not the problem, the problem’s over there in Moscow.’”

On American relations with the Soviet Union: “Russia is always the same, the challenge is always the same, but your perceptions, the words you use, the little things that you do can create tensions—of course, if you do it on one side, they'll do it on the other—so you’ve always got a response. You start to get in a syndrome of running conflict and... our relations with Russia are very bad.”

On the success of the Western Alliance: “Everything we've really had to do, which is to keep the big, industrial centers of the world out of Soviet hands, we've done perfectly... How can you chalk that up as failure?”

On detente: “The whole purpose of detente was to offer the Soviet Union good relations with the U.S. along with trade and credit and access to American technology. In exchange for that, the Russians could obey the so-called ‘rules of detente,’ which means that you do not push or shove or use any advantage in any portion of the world to improve your position as opposed to that of the U.S... In other words, we were trying to control their policies in the Third World by dangling the carrot in front of them of American trade and technology; that’s the tradeoff... and, of course, it never worked, because we discovered that we cannot control their activities in the Third World. They did get involved in Angola; they do have advisors in Ethiopia. See, from that point of view, Americans say detente failed.”

On the Soviet pipeline to West Europe: “Reagan doesn’t want good relations between Russia and Western Europe. He doesn’t want it and the pipeline represents that. I think one reason he’s against the pipeline is that he doesn’t want any detente in Europe. He wants the Europeans to be tough and anti-Soviet, just as we are. They're not and that’s the rub in the Alliance.”

On Secretary of State Shultz: “I was somewhat disturbed by the appointment of Shultz, because Clark had no experience in foreign affairs and then they have Shultz as Secretary of State coming out of the background with a minimum of experience in putting two people with little experience in top positions. I think Haig, because of his experiences in Europe, at least knew Europe fairly well... I think the reason why I prefer Shultz, though, is because he has a better style. Shultz is an absolute pragmatist, low key, apparently highly intelligent, very sincere... I still would rather have a man like Kissinger... with that level of knowledge.”

On the Reagan Administration and Foreign Aid: “I think that all he’s got to do is once he gets over the hump of seeing the Soviet Union behind all the problems... that this Administration will do some good [in foreign aid] also. We’re in the position to do a lot of good in the world, but you can’t do any good for El Salvador if you’re always under the assumption you have to fight the Soviet Union, because the Soviet Union is not the problem in El Salvador. El Salvador is the problem of El Salvador—poverty, bad land distribution, poor crops. These are the things we have to work on.”