The Lady Cats ended a seven-game losing slide Tuesday night as they turned back Meredith, 64-50. It was a good way to end a tough week, after earlier losses to Wingate 73-41, Catawba 67-51, and UNC-Greensboro 69-56. The Wingate game was definitely a disappointment as Mayes felt, “The team just didn’t rise to the occasion. When we play a team with that much talent we can’t afford to make as many mistakes as we did. In addition to making mistakes we don’t usually make, we never got the offense going.” She added, “We are capable of playing with teams of that caliber, but only if we cut down on the mistakes, and do more things right.”

Despite the fact that the Cats lost to Catawba, Mayes was very pleased with the game and the team’s overall performance. “Catawba is definitely a higher caliber team than we are. When we played them at home (the 1st game of the season) we lost by 49, but the other night we played a game and a half (only lost by 16). I was really impressed with the team. They ran the offense well, and played very aggressive defense. We outrebounded them 53-25, which is outstanding. Our biggest problem was costly turnovers,” she said.

Monday night, against UNC-G, Davidson made another impressive showing against a team that had beaten them badly earlier in the season. After losing by 32 at home, the Cats went to Greensboro and made a game out of it, losing by only 13. Mayes said, “I was really happy with the team overall, it was one of our best outings of the year. We played well, both offensively and defensively. The players showed that they are looking to each other more and getting used to playing together. They really showed me some good things on offense.” Mayes added that she was glad to see a more balanced scoring attack emerging, and was very pleased with the performance of the people coming off the bench. She added, “The team is playing with more desire to win. They are being more aggressive and they aren’t letting people push them around.”

Tuesday night at home against Meredith the Lady Cats finally got that elusive second victory. The team came on strong at the start, pulling to an early 10-0 lead over the visiting Angels. They were running the offense well and the rebounding was exceptional, as they got numerous second and third shot opportunities. But early fouls almost got the Cats into trouble. With 13 minutes remaining in the 1st half, both Howell and Elliot, who had been rebounding well, were on the bench with 2 fouls apiece. For the next few minutes, the game looked sloppy. Davidson got careless with its passing and ball-handling as a string of turnovers let a suddenly hot-shooting Meredith team pull to within 4 points, at 19-15. Then the experience and leadership of Frankhouser came through as she took control. Driving inside, Mike drew a number of fouls, to get Meredith into foul trouble as well. As she stepped repeatedly to the line and calmly sank 6 free-throws in a row, Davidson pulled ahead again 34-25.

The Cats came out for the second half with a 36-28 lead. Four minutes into the half Elliot went out with a sprained ankle, and two minutes later Howell picked up her 4th foul. Apparently, the Cats would have trouble maintaining control of the boards. This wasn’t the case, though, as Cathy Morrell came in and did a great job blocking out Meredith and pulling in rebounds. The Lady Cats were able to maintain control and won by a final score of 64-50. Mayes commented, “I’m happy with the win, we’ll take a win any time, but we actually played better in this game.”better against Catawba and UNC-G. This wasn’t one of our best games. I wasn’t really happy with the way we looked, but we did play well enough to win, which was good. The team did look more aggressive and I could tell they really wanted to win. This was a big win for the Cats as it means that the post-season game (against Meredith), to see which team goes to regionals, will be played at Davidson. A loss would have meant the game would be played in Greensboro. Hopefully, with the game being played at home, the team will get a lot of support from the fans. The women’s next home game is Wednesday night, February 3, at 7 P.M. against Furman.

by Kara Gilmore

David Lyon’s Folk Corner

When I graduated last year, I wasn’t ready to begin a career. I wanted to take some time to just live day to day and let life show me some direction. I decided to look for a part-time job, and as I was looking one day through the “Help Wanted” section, I ran across an interesting item: “School Bus Driver Needed.” That struck my fancy and I went to apply. I was given the job very quickly, and the fellow said to go out to the parking lot and pick the bus I wanted to drive. That sounded a little odd, but I went out anyway and there sat every kind of school bus you could imagine. There were old buses, new buses, great big ones and little teeny ones, different colored ones, and off in one corner all by itself sat a bus painted with Big Bird and Ernie and Bert and the Cookie Monster and all the Sesame Street characters. I knew that was the one for me. I informed the man of my choice and he said fine and explained the route, as I was to begin the next day.

So early the next morning I got in that bus and embarked on my mission. I came to the first stop and was amazed to see a little girl who was about four feet wide. She waddled up the steps and introduced herself. “Hi, my name’s Patricia.” Patricia took a seat, and we and the bus groaned off to the next stop. I had to rub my eyes and look twice because standing there was another little girl of spherical build who came right up and introduced herself as Patricia as well! Two of them, at an easy 200 lbs. a piece, was incredible. I balanced them one on either side of the bus so we wouldn’t tip over, and proceeded. At the next stop was a mother with her son in a wheelchair. His name was Ross and the mother asked that he be delivered to the Imperial School. I nodded and we went on to the last stop where there was a greasy little kid in a polyester leisure suit who stepped right up, stuck out his hand and said, “Hi, Lester Reese, good to meet ya.” He tried to sell me a used car and I said, “Sit down Lester, we're late.” I drove on, and Lester plopped down in the seat right behind me, took off his shoes and commenced picking at huge bunions which grew on his toes. This made me queasy, and I delivered all the kids to school not a moment too soon.

From there I went directly to the office of the man who gave me the job, and announced that I quit. He asked why, as it was just my first day on the job. I said, “That’s right! First day on the job, and you’ve got me with two obese Patties, Special-Ross, and Lester picking at his bunions.”