Continued from page 12

No. But there certainly are needs for women to congregate socially and on a daily basis, especially considering the type
of foods women enjoy.

What are the strongest and weakest points of the Davidson fraternity system?
The fraternities give a contact base for students and a sense of community (if not fraternity) outside the dorm and
classroom.

A certain openness.

It fosters a certain degree of exclusiveness. In general, I’m inclined to think all those practices are bad, that is,
the impulse to think one is made better by the extent to which one can exclude others.

It provides an opportunity for people to elect a certain type of experience, being a part of a society which
may be quasi-secret.

Tradition, mottoes, secret handshakes, all principles of exclusion, are the things which people want, obviously.

Things to be said against it are the kind of values that are celebrated.

The fraternity members seem to exhibit more dedication than those who eat at eating houses.

The oral encouragement aspect of self-selection (and its flipside—oral discouragement) recreates the very problems which self-selection was designed to avoid.
And it does so with an extra edge because it makes for hypocrisy. It generates the sense that there is
some criterion for superiority. I don’t like that kind of social system.

The most positive aspect is the inter-generational bridge which the fraternities form.

By Andy Wilson '84

Record reviews

Continued from page 5

area of the country. “Fall is a crazy time. October is a peak time for visitors and also the peak
traveling north,” she said.

The staff only gives admissions interviews at the College, and all applicants are encouraged to visit for an interview. Dr.
Griffith said the staff conducts about 3000 interviews each year.

Although the staff spends time traveling in the fall, they also have to consider and decide on early decision applicants.
In the last two years, the College has accepted 85-90 early decision applicants. Mr. Jones and Ms. Pierce said there
is no fixed percentage of the class that the Admissions Committee sets aside for early decision acceptance.

Graham Parker

Another Grey Area

“Another Grey Area” is the perfect title for this latest product of Graham Parker’s poetic but confused mind. The subject
of every song is his relationship with that mysterious, female “You” who “hits the spot” one moment and makes him
feel like a “big fat zero” the next. Parker seems to find himself caught in that noncommittal “grey area” between
love and hate, between seriousness and bitter sarcasm.

Musically, the album is noncommittal too. Without the Rumour, who helped make his “Squeezing out Sparks” and “Up Escalator” near
brilliant successes, Parker seems to be struggling to find a new sound for a new band. Unfortunately, as soon as
he seems to be moving toward something new with songs like “Thankless Task” and “No More Excuses,” he slips into
what sounds like an attempt to recreate the sound of “The Rumour” with songs like “Temporary Beauty.”

The addition of female background vocals, saxophone, and flute on various cuts lends a bit of welcome diversity and adds
to the newer sound. Also, there is a nice variation in tempo from slower songs such as “Crying for Attention”
to more upbeat tunes like “You Hit the Spot.”

The lyrics are rather typically plaintive and ironic. On side one is “No More Excuses;” he sings with great conviction,
“Hey, no more excuses, we’ll make them enough... It’s time to get tough.” This reflects the generally optimistic tone of
the album. Unfortunately, he slips into a less confident stance in tunes like “Big Fat Zero” where he calls himself
that very thing fourteen times in 2 ½ minutes. This fluctuation in tone does not damage the album in the
least. Quite to the contrary, it makes the album typically and quite uniquely Graham Parker’s own. Caught in “Another Grey
Area,” Parker reflects upon his state through this music and comes to the conclusion that he should “Fear Not” because
“It’s Gonna End.” The album is not his best, and it could be disappointing after the brilliance of “Squeezing Out
Sparks” and the charisma of “Up Escalator.” However, this is certainly no failure and is well worth an investment.

Pam Hawkins
