Row Eth aon!

To the Editor:

To those of you struggling through the rigors of academics at Davidson, perhaps you would be interested in being brought
up to date concerning the 12 students participating in Dr. Ligo’s Art History seminar in France. Those on the trip
with Dr. Ligo include: Mebane Atwood, Eileen Benner, Margaret Evans, David Fleming, Margaret Holt, Stan Hynds, Mark Murrey, Sarah Nock,
Joyce Robinson, Lisa Robinson, Norwood Smith, and myself.

Since our arrival on March 20, we have been swamped with new sights and knowledge which we have eagerly absorbed.
For most of us, confusion was the norm during our first few days in Paris. Gradually, as we learned our
way around the maze of streets and became accustomed to French signs and directions, some order to it all became
apparent.

We spent our first week in Paris studying 19th-century painting in the Louvre. What a thrill it was to see
the works by the famous painters that we have studied so much about in the past. Unfortunately, the “Mona Lisa”
was shielded behind a glaring sheet of glass due to that last episode of vandalism done on her. Also in
Paris, we studied in the Cathedral of Notre Dame to begin our exploration. We were off to Chartres, France to
see the beautiful cathedral there—where most of the brilliant stained glass of the 1200s still exists. We were given a
rare tour through Chartres Cathedral by the primary authority of the Cathedral, Malcolm Miller. Mr. Miller took us way up
over the vaults of the nave and then around the upper heights of the exterior—right under the tremendous flying buttresses.
In addition, we learned to appreciate the building from sculpture on the portals to the figures on the stained glass.
In essence, we read the 12th-century person’s Bible.

Also, while in Chartres, we stayed with French families. What a great way it was to compare life in a
French home with that in an American home. The father of my French family is a world-renowned stained glass maker.
Surprisingly, my Chartres home was very similar to a home in the United States. The conveniences that I am used
to at home for the most part existed there too: TV, modern kitchen, modern bathrooms, ping pong table, and so
forth. Yet my home in Chartres had a distinctly European flavor. It was old, classy, and had objets d’art throughout.
And it was cold inside except for the room with a fireplace. Close by was the stained glass workshop with
a yard full of chickens and turkeys in between.

At the time of this writing, we are back in Paris for another week of studying in the Louvre, anticipating
our two-week trip by car through France to study more medieval architecture. Having been in France only three weeks, I
hardly dare ask someone a question in French, fearing a blank stare or a response in English. I appreciate the
friendliness on their part, while at the same time I feel insulted. Surely I’m not that bad a speaker of
French.

To be an obvious American in France is not all that enjoyable. I get the distinct feeling that the French
have some animosity towards Americans. The British—at least the young British—seem quite the opposite.opposite. Several British teenagers I have met
in Paris told me they love America. One person even said his greatest wish was to move to America. A
group of young British school children had similar thoughts about our country. One kid even said she loves the way
I talk. I laughed at their stereotypes of Americans—gained mostly from TV. Did you know that all American girls have
braces, that all American men have big shoulders, and that we all live in “posh” houses like the Knots Landing
TV program?

If I had to compare French ways with American ways, I could certainly list merits for each. I like the
lack of waste characteristic of life here. The tiny cars somehow don’t seem so bad. We could learn from the
French in their use of lights which automatically turn off after a few minutes, and escalators which run only when
someone is on them. As far as not taking a shower every day, maybe that’s going a little too far.
We’ve had to pay extra for the privilege of a daily shower. Yes, I do miss many of the luxuries
we take for granted in the United States, like having ice available, or a water fountain, but things are quite
sufficient nonetheless. France carries on by itself pretty much ignoring the affairs of the United States or the other countries
close by.

John Stipp ’83

Mud Club?

To the Editor:

As the ROTC cadet in charge of the recent Spring Blood Drive, I would like to take this opportunity to
thank all the students, faculty, and staff members who took time out and graciously donated their blood last Monday. We
collected 269 pints of blood, the highest total for a Spring Blood Drive in several years. In addition, I would
also like to thank the various local merchants who donated many gifts and prizes and were instrumental in our success.
They were: Gabriel Sporting Goods, King of Pizza, The Little Kitchen, The Meeting Place, Anheuser-Busch, The Tonsure, Gus’s Gourmet Kitchen,
The Peregrine House, The Flower Cart, and The Chef’s Cap.

Sincerely,
James V. Young Jr.
CDT 2LT OIC Blood Drive

To the Editor:

This past week at Spring Convocation a number of awards and honors were announced. Among these was the selection of
new members for Omicron Delta Kappa, O.D.K. Many people may not realize what this organization represents and how students are
chosen. The Delta Circle of O.D.K. was established at Davidson College in 1917. It is an honorary society that recognizes
the leadership of students in various collegiate activities. These areas include scholarship, athletics, social and religious activities, campus government, and
the arts. O.D.K. members are responsible for setting up the practice interviews that seniors take advantage of in the winter.
Betsy Thomas, President of O.D.K., deserves special recognition for all the time and effort she put in to make this
project successful. These interviews provide an excellent opportunity for students to gain experience in this aspect of job hunting. Many
students took part in it.

O.D.K. members are also responsible for collecting and evaluating applications for the Teaching Award it presents each spring at Convocation.
Professors are evaluated on their commitment to the college and the community and their degree of involvement.
