Russ Warren begins painting in his studio early, just as dark leaves the coldest winter days and waking thoughts return
to mind. He brings with him the deepest images from still memorable dreams and tries to picture the nightmares he
doesn’t understand. He tells stories with his paintings, stories of the disturbing world of the self and all within; hence
the titles are titles of books (Triumph of Death, When Tempers Flare; Zeke Attacking Velasquez, NO! Mr. Hyde, The Conformist).

The crude, anxious, sometimes confusing figures are involved in the most basic human activities. His characters are trapped in some
claustrophobic, less-than-comfortable world where unexplained existence is a horror story rather than a lark. Starving dogs with erections sniff bright
red skulls in dark hallways. Naked, expressionless men with black knives assault other men and dogs. Black silhouettes cast long
shadows out of tiny doorways. Animals similar to but not exactly like anything on earth tip off the edge of
barren purple planets. All this in an attempt to pin down man’s vague fears, desires, and nauseas with precision and
a twist of ironic humor.

The men in Warren’s paintings are archetypes of the men that compose himself, and the dog represented is always Zeke,
Warren’s dog who died not long ago. “All the men I paint are me,” he says. Although he’s attained quite
a bit of it lately, recognition is not the reason for Warren’s daily work and his turning out nearly a
painting per week. His purpose, he says, is that “If I don’t, I forget who I am.” Jesse Murray, in
Arts magazine, May 1981, calls Warren’s work an “attempt at private myth making.”

Warren was one of the few new artists included in the recent Whitney Biennial. Carrie Richey of Artforum magazine, April
1981, called the Whitney “America’s Art equivalent to a trade fair,” named Warren “Most Promising/Not Well Known,” out of the
show of 115 artists, 65 of whom live and work in N.Y.

“This year’s winner,” she continues, “is Russ Warren, whose impassioned, cartoony allegories of Death and Existentialism—Quixote-like stick figures that seem
to be teetering on the edge of the abyss—make his work look like the dark side of Louisa Chase.” Warren
has also been included in an Albright-Knox exhibition with 7 or 8 other figurative artists, and has had reviews of
his work in several major art periodicals and the Village Voice. Russ says he’s “been called False Image, False Naivete,
New Image, New Wave, and Neo-Expressionist.”

How does being removed from the New York art scene affect him? “It depends, really. I've found that it can
be both good and bad.”
