Sports

The Wide World of

Davidson hosted the twenty-third edition of the Davidson Relays and, despite a smaller field than in recent years, the occasion
met success. Appalachian State won both the men’s and women’s divisions by sizeable margins. Davidson teams finished in the middle
of their respective fields, the men tallying twelve points to place 9th out of 19 teams and the women scoring
51 points to finish 5th in a field of 10 teams. As always in a meet of this size, however,
it is the individual performances, whether triumphs or tragedies, that one recalls.

Once again, the weather mirrored the dual nature of those performances—the tried-but-true thrill of victory and agony of defeat (experienced
vicariously but no less emotionally by lookers-on). Saturday’s weather was both the best and the worst of Davidson’s climate and
the meet held moments of equal duality. One recalls the machine-like ease of Berry College’s Cindy Campbell and App. State’s
Carlton Law as each won both the 10,000 and 5000 races. One also remembers the deeply etched lines of strain
displayed on the faces of the intermediate hurdlers; whether victor or vanquished, as they complete this in many ways most
rigorous of events. One also remembers the pain, shock, and anguish of App. State’s Mary Wright who snagged the final
hurdle in the 100m highs and fell scant yards from the finish, changing a probable win into a hobble across
the line to secure at least the single point for sixth place.

Davidson’s runners and jumpers were no less distinguished than these. Marian Hill ran two splendid races to place second in
the 10,000 and 5000 meter runs. Lance Sisco braved a track made treacherous by high winds and heavy rain to
waltz into the final of the 110 high hurdles. In that final, Lance finished second by the narrowest of margins
to James Orr of ASU. Clark Carter and Danny Armistead had fine days as well and placed sixth in the
pole vault and steeplechase respectively. Davidson’s men’s relay teams also placed sixth in the distance medley and two-mile relays. The
female counterparts to those two races, however, provided the greatest excitement and satisfaction for the Wildcat fans in attendance. In
the distance medley, Jean Webb took the baton in fourth place but ran a startling and inspiring 1320 yard leg
to put Davidson in 1st place with the one-mile leg remaining. Tamara Foreman took up where Jean left off, but
the heat and a very fast early pace combined to allow Towson State’s Sharon Keller to overtake her on the
last lap for the medley win. Jean Webb also ran a powerful final leg in the 2-mile relay, but strong
legs from Tamara Foreman, Laura Hills, and Melissa Page eased Davidson’s victory in that relay. That win, however, was no
less impressive for its emotional and well-balanced character than the narrow loss in the distance medley.

Unfortunately, we must wait another year for the colorful swirl and bursting-at-the-seams excitement of the Relays. The atmosphere, the simple
physical abundance that surrounds such an athletic event is, however, well worth the wait. Unfortunately too, however, we must wait
until next spring to see Davidson’s tracksters in action again. Both men’s and women’s track teams have an open date
this weekend and the rest of the meets are away. They will next see action at the Furman Invitational in
Greenville, S.C. the following weekend. This meet will serve for the men as a tune-up for the Southern Conference Meet
also to be held at Furman on the weekend following that. For some unknown reason, there is no conference meet
for women.

Jeff Hamilton ‘82

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9 April 1982
