to an audience. Painting is not as separate an activity as some would like to think. There seems to be a kind of apology for the art and the artist that question comes out of. Any person who is trying to be in touch with living has got to have their own way of making that same kind of search. Some people do it through meditation, some people do it through music, everyone’s got their way. 

There’s a part of their lives which isn’t truly engaged. I really don’t like the concept that I make my paintings to make other people think, that’s a little pretentious. I make my paintings to create something that’s never existed before and that wouldn’t exist unless I made it. If that gives you something, fine. I don’t care what it gives you any more than I care how you relate to another person. I see paintings just like people: some you relate to the surface, some as decoration, some as pleasant company, and some as life-long mates. Paintings are the same way. I see paintings that are quick-hit paintings that I thoroughly enjoy. I can love them for the quick hit; that’s what they’re for, but they’re not pictures I would choose for a sort of lasting spiritual nourishment. I think in terms of time-release information they function differently. I'm particularly interested in time-release information.

My position is sort of like contact. Interested in this comment about art being spiritually nourishing, I wondered, since most of us are taught to associate the spiritual with religion, if Herb’s audience even considered his work in a spiritual context. “I think the more religion became organized over the centuries the less people realized that there’s a spiritual dimension in realms other than very organized ones. Ideally, for someone coming into a setting where my work is being presented, I would like them to feel a kind of presence. A presence of what I don’t know, but at least a presence that is not about teaching and is not about anything particularly didactic or defined. I suppose a spiritual presence is what I’m really talking about. Rather than showing someone a greater vision, I would like my art to set up a context where one might get in touch with his own particular greater vision.”

Herb not only sets up this sort of context in his art; he is also very much involved in creating a context for students in his classes to get in touch with their own creative visions. As chairman of the art department, Herb has many responsibilities as a faculty member and administrator. I asked him if his career as an artist interfered with his job as a professor. 

“Painting is not any more important than teaching—though I’d rather be seen as a painter who teaches than as a teacher who paints. I think my painting is as much of my teaching as anything I say. The fact that I am painting affects me as a teacher. If I got up in front of a class and talked about painting without actually being involved in it myself, the...ideas would be pretty academic, like things I’d just sort of distilled as good theories to throw out and see if they work. I actually believe—

“For the present, Herb is content with his position in the art world. He feels his work is being shown more and more in New York and other art centers. At my New York show, people were relating to my work in just the way I would want them to. Instead of talking about how beautiful they were, the viewers were talking about how meaningful the paintings were. There’s sort of an ever-widening circle of people who are interested, and I’m excited about an upcoming show that the Mint Museum is doing on my drawings.”

This show, being put together by the Mint Museum in Charlotte, will feature 36 drawings and will go on tour as a traveling exhibition for three years after opening in 1983. If you’d like to become familiar with Herb’s work and don’t want to wait until the show opens, there are plenty of his pieces around the area to be seen. Four prints based on the four elements hang in the first-floor lounge area of the Center for Special Studies, just seconds away from your daily visit to the Post Office, and more works are to be found around the Davidson community and in Charlotte. The Mint Museum holds one of Herb’s Veil paintings in its permanent collection, and other works are always showing at the Hodges/Taylor Gallery at 116 Latta Arcade in downtown Charlotte. Any effort you make to see some of Herb Jackson’s art will be well rewarded. Each encounter I have had with his work yields some new value and perspective, not only on the work I’m seeing, but on my relationship to art in general. If you’re interested in art or simply curious to see real examples of what you’ve been reading about, I would strongly encourage you to seek out Herb’s work.

- Todd Swofford ’82

Folk Corner

Anybody can play music. The first step is to take the instrument of your choice or your own voice and learn to whack out a few notes. Then you're in the game and the sky is the limit. From there, you can pursue whatever direction your mind and the sounds take you. Music, in its own way, is forever cherished. We may have experienced profound moments during one of these musical journeys. We are, however, mortals. As musicians, whatever our abilities and degree of involvement, we may or may not be producing art and may or may not be enjoyable for others or even to ourselves. But even if we are not sublime artists, we can find great joy! Make music. Rejoice in simplicity and join the spiritual dance. Befriend the transcendental. For the first step, get out your guitar, your fiddle, your clarinet, bassoon, or whatever, and work on this one—the old standard, Soldier’s Joy.