Shoemaker (Fiji) and Frank Clark (SPE) were also invited to the meetings. “We tried to be thorough and listen to various concerns and viewpoints,” explained the mayor. “This is not only a college problem, and the ordinance should be fair.”

According to the Town of Davidson Noise Ordinance, the daytime sound level limit for Sunday through Thursday is 70 decibels from 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. and 70 decibels from 8:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday. During the night on weekdays, the noise level limit is 55 decibels. However, exceptions to these rules can be made to benefit special events or big weekends like Homecoming or Spring Frolics. During these occasions, the daytime limit (8:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.) is 80 decibels, and the nighttime limit is 55 decibels. The fine for violating the provisions of the Ordinance runs as high as $100.

David Shoemaker, president of the Fiji house, feels that the students could have been more responsible and involved if they had been approached and asked to compose a separate college noise ordinance. As to the effect of the noise ordinance, he said, “The noise is related to band parties mostly, and I don’t think they will be a problem from now on, because they’ll be indoors.”

So far, the ordinance has been upheld and students have been very cooperative. “It’s not the students’ fault anyway,” remarked Dean Terry. “It’s the band members who sometimes wait until our backs are turned and who put up the sound again.” Dean Terry said that the noise is relative and should be measured closer to the source.

Mayor MacCormac feels that the Noise Ordinance is working. “This fall, the community has felt the noise to be excessive, but the level did not exceed the decibel number. People are aware of the Ordinance, and by being more aware, they are more sensitive.”

New Golf Course Completed
TONY DICK ’85

Construction of a 3-hole golf course behind the baseball field was completed last Monday, 11 October. Besides aiding the golf team, Coach Thomas Cartmill says the course will be used for golf instruction in P.E. credit classes and campus community recreation. The combination 3-hole recreation course and practice area for P.E. classes and the golf team will be “the biggest asset we ever had, from the standpoint that the team can practice an hour a day without spending 40 minutes a day traveling to and from the course,” thus saving time and costs.

Cartmill says this will not be the first golf course on the Davidson College campus. He says that before World War II, the college had a 9-hole course where the lower tennis courts and flickerball intramural fields are now.

The current project was initiated after Mr. Howard Covington, ’37, chairman of the board of Covington Diesel, Inc., of Greensboro, donated $200,000 to the college. According to the Davidson Update, he directed that $25,000 go to the varsity golf and tennis programs. The college will use $100,000 to help endow a visiting professorship program and deposit the remaining $50,000 into a property acquisitions fund. Tennis team Coach Jeff Frank said Wednesday that the tennis team has deposited its $25,000 allocation in an investment account to help with team expenses.

Dedication ceremonies for the $25,000-plus project will be held next spring when the grass seeds have fully rooted and the course becomes playable.

Davidson Names New Development Officer

Henry H. Doss has been promoted to director of corporate and foundation relations for Davidson College. He succeeds Michel C. Daisley, who served in the position for more than two years and is enrolling in UNC law school this fall. Doss joined the Davidson staff two years ago as community relations director for WDAV, the college’s non-commercial FM radio station.

In his new job, Doss will seek support for the college’s “1987 Program” from corporations and regional businesses, as well as private foundations. That campaign seeks to raise more than $35 million for capital improvements, endowment, and current expenses prior to the college’s sesquicentennial in 1987. Two prominent alumni who will work closely with Doss in the corporate fundraising effort are Robin L. Hinson, class of ’53, a Charlotte attorney, and Dr. Charles F. Myers, class of ’33, a Greensboro resident and retired chief.Executive officer of Burlington Industries, Dr. Jack W. Powers, vice president for development, said, “The success of the radio station’s recent fundraising and public relations efforts testify to Henry’s capability in the field. I am certain that he will do an equally excellent job in the broader context he will now manage.”

Doss, who grew up in Matthews, received his B.A. degree from UNC-Charlotte in 1976. He and his wife, the former Martha Mae Sloop of Concord, live in Davidson and have two daughters, Catherine Ann and Mary Elizabeth.

Colleges Start Crackdown on Student Drinkers

(CPS) - According to the new signs posted around the stadium, there will not be any more drinking at University of Alabama football games this year. Campus police and local law enforcement officials have geared up to watch fans for telltale signs of carrying booze to the game.

At Notre Dame, there’s another tough new anti-drinking policy. Starting this fall, students can no longer bring alcohol onto university property. Indiana University is going even farther. University officials are making unannounced “spot checks” for alcohol at the public areas of campus dorms and fraternity houses to enforce a new no-booze-on-campus rule.

Colleges and universities around the country this fall are imposing tough new drinking policies and are creating new means of making the policies stick. Students who run afoul of the new rules typically face disciplinary actions escalating from reprimands to suspensions, with mandatory attendance at alcohol education classes. Some schools are tougher: Notre Damers caught violating the school drinking policy are liable for a $100 minimum fine.

Not all students are happy about it. Indiana’s student government is inviting student complaints against the “raids,” worrying about students’ privacy rights. But the new wave of anti-drinking policies has yet to evoke much student response one way or the other.

The administrators’ abrupt fervor follows drinking law changes in dozens of states over the last three years. Spurred by grassroots groups such as Mothers Against Drunk Drivers (MADD) and increasing pressure from New Right coalitions such as Jerry Falwell’s Moral Majority, state legislators around the country have enacted stiffer laws against drunk drivers, raised the minimum drinking ages, and increased pressure on liquor stores and bars not to sell alcohol to individuals who are under-age or already intoxicated.

And now colleges, too, are responding to what they call “an increased public awareness of alcohol abuse and demands for stricter controls.” “There’s definitely a greater level of concern throughout the higher education community to address [alcohol] problems,” observes Dr. Gerardo Gonzalez, president of Boost Alcohol Consciousness Concerning the Health of University Students (BACCHUS), and director of the Campus Alcohol Information Center at the University of Florida.

“There’s no question we have a big problem,” Gonzalez says. “About 90 percent of all college students drink, and we know from studies that 15 to 20 percent are problem drinkers.” He defines a problem drinker as “any student whose use of alcohol results in frequent negative consequences to themselves or to others.”

Although the number of students with alcohol problems appears to have peaked in the last few years, Gonzalez says, “it has stabilized at a drastically high level.” Twenty years ago, he points out, only 70 percent of the college students were alcohol drinkers, and only six percent were classified as problem drinkers.

South African Group to Spend Day at Davidson

By THURSTON HATCHER ’85

Six members of the African National Congress of South Africa will be on the Davidson campus all day Thursday, 21 October. Throughout the day, the South Africans will share their ideas with the Davidson community. They will attend an open coffee and cokes from 9:40-10:20 a.m. and an informal luncheon in the Commons at 1:00. From 3 to 5 p.m., several of the ANC members will speak on Human Rights violations in South Africa and on the extent of the United States’ economic involvement in South Africa. Finally, at 7 p.m., the group presents a two-act “human comedy,” “For Better Not For Worse,” which deals with the lives of a family living in apartheid South Africa.

The African National Congress was founded in 1912 with its goal being the...