continued from page 13

So the U.S. decides to starve the Polish people to retaliate for the crackdown? No. As exiled Solidarity leaders have said, “Food is a political weapon to subdue the people. Giving more food to the government is simply giving it more weapons.” If the U.S. is to act (and not just talk) morally, it cannot support the military regime. We must also exert as much pressure as possible in order to bring about negotiations between Solidarity (or what remains of it) and the Polish regime. To not act to pressure in some minor way is to allow Soviet pressure to operate in a vacuum.

Some say the U.S. should channel food into Poland via private sources. In a time of martial law, it is dubious if private sources are allowed the freedom of contact with the West and if indeed the Polish government would not use the food, no matter where it comes from, as an important political weapon. It is doubtful that the new authorities will let their population starve. The regime and the Soviet backers should have to pay the full economic consequences of their actions. If the Poles begin to go hungry, can one honestly believe that the population will believe the new dictators when the dictators assert that the U.S. is the cause of the shortage? Dubious. We will negotiate a return to business as usual only after a lifting of martial law. To solely condemn Polish actions is to talk loudly and carry no stick.

The U.S. and eventually its allies recognized the complicity of the Soviet Union in this sordid affair. From a communist viewpoint, perhaps Solidarity did go too far but only because they were increasingly frustrated by Soviet hostility and resistance to change in Poland. Our actions against the Soviets were milder than the actions taken against the Polish regime but still served as the only immediately redounding action that the U.S. government, considering domestic economic interests, could take. But we could not and should not reply to the Soviet coercion with a mere scathing rebuke. Because the actions were mild, we only sought rhetorical and moral support from our allies. We finally received this support in spite of initial German vacillation.

The United States has taken the best action that could be implemented quickly and be felt rapidly. The sanctions will be little more than an inconvenience and irritation to the Soviets. We must also consider further actions if our perhaps chimerical hopes for dialogue within Poland and gains to Solidarity disappear under the heads of tanks. If we can confirm that reform is taking place, we should move to encourage further amelioration of the situation. We must, however, continue to protest with words and deeds if authoritarianism refuses to tolerate a freer Poland. As time goes on, we must possess other options to punish the repressors if reforms seem but a roseate illusion. A concerted declaration (or U.S.-led with warning to our allies) of technical default of Polish loans will affect not only Poland but also its East European allies and Soviet protector who need Western loans for both development and the financing of their military machines. Other contingency plans must look to formulate an effective and concerted grain and technology embargo. This punishment will have high political and economic costs that in the past the West was unwilling to bear. Perhaps the continuation of blatant repression in Poland, a country with deep ties in the U.S. and Western Europe, will provide the moral cement for concerted and justifiable Western retaliation.

By Bill Barginann '82

1-15-82

On this day, 53 years ago, a man was born. I dare say that nobody expected him to do much more than any other black boy—he would grow up to suffer, and to struggle; to love, and to die another nameless, faceless, black man. But fortunately for each black person in this Chapel, Martin Luther King, Jr. stepped out of the grotto of obscurity and shined brilliantly, though all too briefly, in the glow of victory.

Before a crowd of over two hundred thousand people at the Lincoln Memorial on August 28, 1963, Dr. King told of his dream. His was a mellow baritone voice with an edge of passion and conviction. With simple but marvelously disciplined eloquence, he described his dream for America—and he invited all to share it. He said, “I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed: We hold these truths to be self-evident; that ALL men are created equal... I have a dream today.”

Now the voice is stilled, the eloquence is but a memory, and the limpid brown eyes of this dreamer and man of deeds are glazed in death. But his dreams live on because dreams don’t stop until they come true. JustBecause everybody can vote now, just because nobody has to sit in the back of a bus unless he wants to, just because Jim Crow has flown out of the books doesn’t mean a new hen hasn’t come to roost. Don’t tell me, and don’t deceive yourselves, that my standing here is evidence enough that the dream has been realized. Yes, I'm here and there are fifty more blacks here, too, but that fact is a long way off from any kind of proof. It is so easy to believe that Dr. King’s dream of a nation in which we will not be judged by the color of our skins, but by the contents of our characters, was just that—a man’s dream, like so many other men’s dreams. And it is so easy to believe that the fight for equality died with Dr. King on April 4, 1968—that one assassin’s bullet killed both the man and all he fought for. But the cold hard reality is that some of us may have to die, even now, for the dream to stay alive; and it must stay alive long enough to be fulfilled. Just because blacks can no longer be legally detested, the hatred felt in many hearts is just as strong now as it has ever been. We must keep the dream alive. We are the pride, the expectations; we are the only hope this nation has in these troubled times. If we choose not to uphold the dream—you tell me, who else will? Yes, it’s a heavy burden; truth and freedom always are—but when the last buzzer sounds at Davidson College for us, we leave for the real world. And in the real world, prejudice still exists.

Today’s challenge has got to be tomorrow's success. We cannot afford to let the appearances of equality delude us because appearances are not truths. Don’t be content to subsist on some cheap placebo facsimile of justice, the crumbs of which are tossed at us merely to quiet our complaints. Dr. King lost his life in the fight for true racial equality—we can settle for and accept no less. Believing that dignity can be compromised is akin to being granted liberty while the sun shines, only to be shackled in hatred by night. Martin Luther King, Jr., had a dream—and now, I’ve got one, too. I have a dream that one day all the wars will be over. Hatred and segregation, the weapons of prejudice, will lie smoking on the battlefields. And from the dust and ashes, the blood and tears, the world will be born anew. I have a dream that the time will come for closeness, for meeting of mind and soul. Though we will have needed wars, we will need them then, no more. My ebony beauty, your ivory glow; the reds, the yellows, the pecan browns—these will be the hues of brotherhood. And this world, like all nature, will be at its most splendid when all colors are in bloom.

I can see a day when nobody has to apologize for what he is; when equality does not have to negate identity; when we can be black, white, red, yellow, and brown—without having to strive toward any other perfection. I want to live in two worlds—my ebony world and the rainbow-hued world that I pray can come to be—and I want to share them both with all who wish to know them. I’m looking forward to a world in which black is not a word for evil, and people see my sable skin, only to realize that midnights can be just as beautiful as noontide. We are imprisoned in the castles of our skins—let us say “so be it: if I am in jail, my prison shall become my palace. Let my world be defined by my skin and the skin of all people—for we, spirit to spirit, will embrace this world. This is my dream for someday—and I can feel the triumph of some impending and glorious fulfillment, some impossible possession, some incredible achievement. Don’t let the dreams die—not Dr. King’s, not mine, not yours—don’t let them rest until, as Dr. King said: ...we let freedom ring. When we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, from every village and every city. When we will be able to speed up that day when ALL of God’s children, black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, will be able to join hands and sing in the words of the old negro spiritual, “Free at last! Free at last! Thank God Almighty, we are free at last!”

By Janet Stovall ’85

THE DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 22 January 1982, 15