Record Review with Jon Glance

Gary Numan - I, Assassin

Remember Gary Numan? You know, the mild-mannered stranger who was thrust upon the American consciousness with a paranoid pop ditty
about the value of cars (and how you can lock yourself inside to escape from them). That’s right, he’s back.
And while the rest of electronic pop has followed in his footsteps, he’s given them all the slip. Instead of
the expected synthesizer-washed mutant disco, Numan’s new album I, Assassin features some genuine funk, though of a rather subtle and
abstract strain. While the New Romantics who ripped him off have vanished in a haze of lace, leather and greasy
mascara (e.g., Visage, Japan) ad nauseum, Gary Numan has progressed to a truly interesting style. Rather than using the cheap
straight rhythm of an electronic drummer-in-a-box, this LP builds a heady groove on the polyrhythmical drumming and percussion of an
eclectic Afro-Cuban style interlaid among the basic rock-steady foundation.

Numan’s new album presents a wider range of musical textures than his previous works. While the musical point of reference
still is placed in the future, it is not so much the bleak post-apocalypse humanless milieu of the man who
used to “pray to the aliens.” The sinuous fretless bass and the Latin percussions give an almost Caribbean tone to
the otherwise very urban music. This is still recognizable as Numan’s music, though—a cloud of synthesizers often hang above the
groove, echoing the detachment of Numan’s wonderfully expressive voice, which is, as usual, the focus of the LP. Evoking at
times a chanting muezzin, he treads the fine line of sharps and flats as he throws off his soliptical verse
(for example, “A history of nothing / Like a see-through song in disguise,” or “My picture of your ‘face’ /
Will disappear with time / Patience in eyes / That say occupied / Quite peculiar.”)

At its best, I, Assassin is catchy without being mindless, subtly seductive without being boring. The best songs on the
LP are probably “White Boys and Heroes,” “War Songs,” and “This Is My House.” Don’t ask me what the songs
are about, though. The lyric sheet is intriguing, but hardly much help. I’m not faulting the album for this, but
merely warning the potential listeners who have to know what a song is about, instead of appreciating the voice as
another instrument. The few songs which do fall flat are only to be faulted for failing to catch a good
groove. Examples are the too-fast “We Take Mystery to Bed,” and the aberrant R & B song “The 1930’s Rust.”
In general, though, the LP is a very solid, tastefully produced offering to the market. Gary Numan once said something
to the effect that the problem with having a gold record was that so many more people hate you who
wouldn’t have heard of you otherwise. Let’s hope that this new record doesn’t precipitate a new backlash—Gary Numan deserves some
respect.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 29 October 1982
