Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Boho on the Afterlife

Through some series of clerical errors, I have attained the coveted hierarchical standing of senior here at Davidson. This being the case, I have noticed an increasing emphasis in the conversation of my peers on the dreaded subject of Life After Davidson. What are we, an elite enclave of terrific conversationalists, going to do with ourselves in the hereafter? How are we going to legitimate the thousands of dollars and oodles of time and effort that have been spent so that we can have our present standing in the apostolic succession to American Success?

A large number of us are heading toward the world of Take-advantage-of-the-vagaries-of-a-capital-intensive-economy. These people will specialize in helping people who already have a lot of money to make a lot more money by pitting hunches against interest rates. Or they will help people who don’t have much money to put it in places where those who do can use it to make a lot more money. In short, these will be the ones who keep the columns straight and help certain ones of us out-acquire the others.

Some of us are bound for the world of there-aren’t-many-ways-left-to-do-good-in-the-world, but-helping-sick-people-is-bound-to-be-one-of-them. These are the ones who are presently talking about rural health care, preventive medicine, and nutrition, and will wind up as urologists in Charlotte or radiologists in Atlanta. To you, good luck getting residence in the state of your choice. And remember—lots of solid colors for your interview.

Of course, there is law school. Those who choose this step will have the singular honor of efficiently circumventing, semanticizing, and sometimes supporting the infrastructures of society that others in their profession have told us are the rules people should live by. Maybe they will even have a hand in creating some of these rules someday.

Others will get into sales. This consists of the classical Convince-people-that-they-need-something-that-they-probably-don’t, then-be-in-a-position-to-provide-it approach. With a smile. At a reasonable price.

There are others, but my point is ready to be made. Why? Too often, the answer to this question conjures up some notions that make damn poor criteria for directing the balance of one's three score and ten in some particular way.

For many, parents' alleged wishes figure into the picture. But whose life is it, anyway? Mom and Dad didn’t raise us to adulthood, buy us a liberal arts education, and tell us to brush our teeth every day so that we, at age 22, would turn around and ask them what we should do with ourselves. Parents are still great for advice, but shouldn’t we begin to think a little differently about the nature of their authority?

How about this? That for the money one has spent for this education, one should “get something out of it.” If by “something” is primarily meant capital gains, or fulfilling some perceived niche in the status quo, then four years of cerebral acrobatics have resulted in a point of view that does little to reflect the effort. Is having a neat, self-explanatory title and place in society really a goal worth seeking? Is this the best kind of stewardship that we can make of the social and educational advantages that we have received?

Each of us here at Davidson has an ability to work in The System. We know how to play the game by the rules. But will the ability lead us to become administrators rather than leaders? Do we leave Davidson behind with the same materialistic, consumption-oriented, media-induced aspirations and outlook that we could have easily had without studying our butts off for four years? Are we going to go try to exist in the system on its own terms?Polluting, selfish, unstable terms; trying to make it work for us? Or are we going to try to make it work, period. If students of Davidson’s liberal arts offerings have not the awareness and imagination to perceive and meet needs in their world outside the corporate, professional tradition and all its bullshit, who does? We as a society have been convinced by industry, business, and the media that we cannot provide for ourselves any of the goods and services needed to maintain healthy, happy lives. It is in the interest of these institutions to have us think this way. The result is that we as adults are about to inherit the Great Machine and are so worried about not being able to pay for all those goods and services that we get into the kinds of situations that I mentioned earlier. Like the freshwater fish who lives with the primordial fear of being washed to the sea, we are eternally swimming upstream. But we have only ourselves to blame. The proverbial Real World controls us only as much as we let it. Fellows of the class of '82, good luck. See you in the machine.

Tale of One City (and one student's story)

Let me tell a bit about my JYA experience in Canterbury, England. But how can I possibly sum up, in a few paragraphs, the most challenging, wonderful, and devastating year of my life? It was the best of times... Munching on fish and chips at the seaside on a blustery day... Gazing out of a train window at miles of green countryside, trimmed to golf-course perfection by sheep striped with paint... Late night scurries to the college chocolate machines for Cadbury Dairy Milk Bars... The view from the top of Ben Nevis... A soothing cup of tea (with milk, of course) at any hour and every opportunity... The nighttime view of floodlit Canterbury Cathedral from University Hill — incredible!... Biscuits and tea — the British equivalent of milk and cookies (my favorites were “Chocolate Digestives!”)... The professor’s first words in class being not, “Did anyone do the homework?” but rather “How many for coffee?”... Participating in a vibrant Christian fellowship and realizing that God’s love knows no geographical barriers.

It was the worst of times... The aroma of steak and kidney pie... Endless conversations to convince confused individuals that there are a few American families which fit neither the Waltons nor the Dallas mold... Sugar on movie popcorn instead of butter and salt — suggestive of tired Cracker Jacks... Massive amounts of rain... Lack of direction and encouragement to study from most professors leading to classroom apathy and real frustration at my meager academic progress... Waxed paper found on cylindrical rolls located in the vicinity of restrooms.

One of the most beneficial aspects of my year abroad was the way in which my worldview was altered. Spending time as an international student, sharing my American perspective on issues or absorbing details about another country or culture from a friend made me realize how limited my own little world was. Talking with others about current events as viewed from a location and mindset different from my own made me better able to reflect on the world situation than before. My life and thoughts were enriched by the people and places I encountered and I will never be the same. Although I’ve returned to this side of the Big Puddle, I know I’ll never forget the second home I left behind.

by Sarah Todd ‘82

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982