Nuclear Arms

Some ironic foresight in D.C. Just two days ago our most visible national symbol, the Washington Monument, was held hostage
for ten hours. Sixty-five-year-old Norman Mayer, wearing a jumpsuit and motorcycle helmet, paced in front of his van threatening to
topple the Monument unless “a national dialogue on the nuclear weapons question” was started. Like something of a cross between
Blade Runner and Zamyatin’s We, this sad, insane happening was laced with deep irony. Threatening to blow up the Washington
Monument to stop blowing up the world is an act unique to our time.

Although this bizarre terrorist act is horrible publicity for the nuclear arms issue, it is worth looking at closely by
both friends and foes of nuclear arms. Think about it for a minute. This man wanted to destroy a national
monument to help the nation. Although it’s rather clear-cut that violent acts of terrorism are a threat to peaceful means
of political change, sometimes it takes a slap in the face to realize how far off track we are. Although
we disagree with any acts or threats of violence, this man’s idea is perhaps the most important one facing man.
A recent book, The Fate of the Earth, by Jonathan Schell, describes the importance of the nuclear debate in the
following way: “the mere risk of extinction has a significance that is categorically different from, and immeasurably greater than, that
of any other risk... Up to now, every risk has been contained within the frame of life; extinction would shatter
that frame. It represents not the defeat of some purpose but an abyss in which all human purposes would be
drowned for all time. We have no right to place the possibility of this limitless, eternal defeat on the same
footing as risks that we run in the ordinary conduct of our affairs in our particular transient moment of human
history. To employ a mathematical analogy, we can say that although the risk of extinction may be fractional, the stake
is, humanly speaking, infinite, and a fraction of infinity is still infinity.”

Often we look at the nuclear peril with helplessness. Even if one person could convince his nation to take the
threat of extinction seriously, there are still other nations out of our control. The situation sounds even worse when you
think about the long-term possibility of nuclear extinction; political agreements hardly ever last, and science is impossible to erase. The
nuclear issue is not only the most important one facing humankind, it is perhaps the most difficult to solve. There
are no clear-cut ways of eliminating the threat of nuclear extinction. Threatening to blow up the Washington Monument may bring
a lot of bad press to the nuclear issue but it is still the most worthy of all issues to
attempt a permanent solution.

This week Will Berson has written an Opinions article on the MX missile for the ’sonian, and future articles are
planned. We welcome commentaries on the nuclear issue from any viewpoint, be it political, philosophical, or religious. Although there is
an almost constant stream of literature of every form relating to the nuclear issue, it is an issue which should
never truly bore us. We can see no excuse for the extinction of man, nor could hindsight ever provide one.I
get quite a lot of mail concerning dorm life. This week, quite a bit has come in recently. I figure
the holidays are responsible for this. Whether dorm life is Good or Bad is no open-and-shut case. Let’s take a
peek at some correspondence.

“Dear Queerhead [sic], I hate dorm life. Your friend, Tammy.”

Or this: “Dear Ann, I’ve been pondering things like life in a coeducational dormitory ever since I’ve been living in
one. First of all, it must be nice to be a guy and not have to walk up 56 stairs
to go to the bathroom. Second, why is it that the guys’ halls always smell gross and ours don’t? Also,
once I was in this one guy’s room where he had this huge fungus growing out from underneath [three amazing
prepositions—ed.] his mattress. Maybe that’s why they always smell gross. It seems to me that they would put the gross
floors on top so that they wouldn’t offend those of us who use non-gross toiletries. At least then we wouldn’t
have to walk through those gross smells every day. Plus, if they were on the top, then they could jump
out if things started smelling too bad. I don’t know; are these Good Things or not? I just think gross
smells are Bad, that’s all. Guys have more gross smells than girls...”

The author goes on in this vein for a while, then stops. Notice this one: “Hey. Cannon: Good Thing. No:
shades. Co-eds. Yeah. Binoculars. Why not.” And a probable companion letter reads, “Hey. Sentelle. Bad Thing. We want shades. Mono-eds.
No. Because.”

Nothing like a good controversy, I say. Perhaps these are a bit extreme. In a more moderate tone, one letter
runs, “Dear Good and Bad Letters, I think dorm life is Good and Bad because lots of good things happen
in dorms like mixers and secret Santas, but also I think there are bad things like when they take shower
curtains. I guess all in all there are good and bad things about both, mostly good pretty much.”

Message boards with raccoons and rainbows and Ziggy and ducks and Smurfs and Strawberry Shortcake and Pink Panthers and flowers
and happy faces and calligraphy and oh, dorm life. On peoples’ doors, for gosh sakes.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: Davidsonian, Box
218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone 704/892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices for subscriptions cost $10 per year. Advertising rates available
on request. Second class postage no. USPS 140-200.

Editor: Stewart Cauley
Executive Editor: Brian Butler
Staff: Lindsay Biddle, Paulette Kurani
News Editor: David Resnik
Christi Baggett, Anne Lambert
Features Editor: Tom Pafford
Bill Barnett, John Lyday
Sports Editor: Steve Soud
Neil Cooksey, Ginna McGee
Production Editor: Ann Meador
Mark Elmore, Laura McGee
Photography Editor: Anderson Scott
Duncan V. Fraser, Elodie McMillan
Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams
Kara Gilmore, Matt Morris
Calendar Editor: Ivy Goodman
Jonathan Glance, Peggy Pierotti
Business Manager: Lentz Ivey
Jennifer Gotto, John Ruppenthal
Advertising Managers: Jeff Danese, Thurston Hatcher, Garry Sullivan
Frank Hague, Rob Hollenbeck, Tom Schilling
Graphics: Scot Myers, Scott Huie, John Verdi
Editor Emeritus: Elizabeth Kiss
Joe Jaworski, Andrew Wilson

THE DAVIDSONIAN/10 December 1982
