An Interview

Charles Wright: The Life of a Poet

- His soft, unpretentious voice shows the mark of 16 years in southern California, but the long “o’s” and “a’s” still betray his beloved Tennessee heritage. Charles Wright, Class of '57, distinguished poet and translator, came back to Davidson last week for the first time after 25 years. He came to present the Vereen Bell Writing Award, which he himself had won in 1957.

Before the awards presentation in the 900 Room, Wright reminisced about his Davidson days, when evening seemed endless.

“I always wanted to come back and stand tall in chapel, the way Shaw Smith always did,” he quipped. “Instead, here I am in a bar.”

The 25 years since his graduation have been fruitful ones for Wright. From Davidson, he went into the army for four years, three of them spent in Italy. He received a Master of Fine Arts at the University of Iowa and returned to Italy as a Fulbright Scholar. Since then, he has taught at the University of California at Irvine and lived in a house overlooking the Pacific with his wife, Holly, and his son.

Five books of poetry, a book of translations, and numerous honors, including the P.E.N. Translators Award and a nomination for the National Book Award in Poetry, are the outward and visible signs of the poet’s work.

Wright had called his Davidson experience “four years of amnesia” in an interview with the journal Field in 1977. Indeed, history major and SAE brother Chuck Wright was at times difficult to see in the poet Charles Wright. Ross Smythe ’58, who was Wright's fraternity brother, admitted it was a little strange to see “someone you’d been drinking with and breaking the rules at Davidson with” become a noted poet. And yet, Smythe said in retrospect that he really isn’t surprised at Wright’s career. He remembered Wright for his “quick mind” and “good wit” and said he was “definitely known as a writer by his senior year.”

Wright spoke about his life and vocation in a series of conversations last Friday. Some highlights:

Davidsonian: What was your winning entry for the 1957 Vereen Bell Contest like?

Charles Wright: It was three stories called “Death in These Three”—a very pompous and pretentious title. The third story was particularly overwritten and when the guy gave me the prize he said Faulkner had once said that perhaps the great American novel would be written by the person who could mix the most metaphors in one sentence. Then, holding my manuscript, he said, “This person has a chance.”

Still, to this day I like mixing metaphors. It can be very powerful if you do it properly.

All three stories were pretty much non-narrative. I really can’t tell a story. I tried when I was here, but I was terrible.

D: There is a sense of vocation in your poetry, almost an inner necessity to write, and to write in an effort to recover your past. Do you really feel this way?

CW: In a way. It’s what I do instead of going to church or playing golf. I write poems.

I do think recovery is one of the great aims of art. Some people try to recover their own lives. Great people try to recover lost pieces of civilization. It depends on where you think your level of talent lies. Ezra Pound tried to recover the break-up of Western Civilization as he saw it. I’m trying to recover the broken parts of my past life. Less reconstruction of order—although that’s a pretty high aspiration.

Of course, we're not fated to do anything. I could stop and go into banking, but I just don’t want to.

D: When did you first feel the urge to write?

CW: I always kind of wanted to write. I wanted to write when I was here but I couldn’t. My mother always thought it would be a nice thing to have a writer for a son.

D: That’s rare!

CW: Very rare. She used to date one of Poe’s brothers. She was very interested in literature. So it was always a good thing to read books at my house. I read all of Faulkner by the time I graduated from high school. Which was bad, really, because then I didn’t read him later on when I could have understood him a little better. Going to high school near Asheville, I was also completely under the spell of Thomas Wolfe, who you have to read before you’re 20 or 21.

I was always encouraged to write by my mother. My father didn’t really understand but never gave me trouble about it. When I got to be 31 he said, “So when are you going to get a job?” And I said, “I just got one.” I'd been self-supporting since the day I left Davidson, but I didn’t have a regular job till I was 31. Which is a...