Living on borrowed credit worked for a while. I was in Poland several times in 1973 and 1974. One could see more goods on the shelves, more money being spent; real wage increases were phenomenal over the time—10 to 20 percent a year.

But after several years, things began to catch up. Borrowed money was bringing in the goods, and yet by about 1978 the creditors wanted to be paid back. Production had not matched the increase in goods. It had simply been spent on consumer non-durables and other things. When the creditors began to demand repayment, the Polish government had to begin to squeeze somewhere. It tried to squeeze by limiting what it was spending on foreign food, which then took food off the shelf, which got the workers out in the street. We have seen the results since then.

Now the West, of course, is much more reluctant to lend Poland funds. The inability of the regime to pay off some of its enormous debt has made Poland a classic debtor country. What is going to happen to this debt if the crackdown goes on or certainly if the Soviets intervene? A Polish default could send incredible shockwaves throughout Western financial institutions.

Western Interests in Poland

The United States is now telling Poland that it is seriously concerned about the Polish crisis. But one would have to think: Is a cessation of aid going to affect the military? No, it will affect the average Polish citizen. Is that the intention of our policy? In terms of putting clamps down on credit, the United States could probably try to do it and find it very difficult. In American terms, most of the credit has come from private financial institutions. It could be very difficult to control the flow of credit.

Certainly, the banks themselves have become reluctant to lend more, so our economic and financial policy in this area would be very fuzzy.

For the United States, the Polish crisis is not only an economic and strategic issue, but a political issue as well. A considerable number of Polish-Americans have become rather vocal in their opposition to the crackdown. To ignore them would be a political liability.

In Western Europe, it would be a slightly different case. There, much of the foreign debt that Poland owes goes to both private banking and governments, particularly in West Germany where there is a good bit of both. Certainly, the level of foreign debt owed and its importance in the financial system and economy is much greater in Europe than in the United States.

Will the USSR Intervene?

It is my personal view that the Soviets would do everything possible not to intervene; to me, they have already shown this over the last 18 months. The things the Poles have done so far are totally unprecedented if one compares them to Czechoslovakia in 1968 or even Hungary in a different way in 1956 and after. The Soviets’ willingness to tolerate fundamental changes in a society which seems to presage fundamental change is incredible.

The cost of intervention would be enormous. In military terms, partly because of active resistance on the part of the Polish military, but more so, I think, because of wholesale desertion in the military ranks, with arms, leading to urban guerrilla fighting of unknown proportions, and because of the ability of a few trained people to bring the economy, not only of Poland, but of Eastern Europe to a standstill. The main oil pipeline which supplies Eastern Europe from the Soviet Union runs through Poland. A couple of people with munitions knowledge could put that out of action for a long time. Part of the main electric grid for all of Eastern Europe from the western Soviet rivers also runs through Poland. In an urban industrialized society, which Poland is, the ability of civil disobedience, work stoppages, sabotage in the factories, or shoddy work, to create economic chaos is almost incalculable. At the same time, of course, the Soviets are involved with a little campaign down in Afghanistan which is of a magnitude that I do not think they anticipated nor have they yet decided how to solve. Those two campaigns going on coincidentally would be a real deterrent to Soviet intervention.

In economic terms, what would the Soviet Union do with a country of 35 million people if that country has had its own problems straightening out its economy? At the same time, the Soviets have severe economic problems of their own in agriculture, in trying to industrialize—not to mention an arms race with the United States.

The Future for Solidarity

I think one of the apparent objectives of the current crackdown is to drive a wedge between the militants and the moderates, if indeed it is true that the military is hosting Walesa and others while having actively arrested the militants in an attempt to support the moderates to some extent. The Polish government will perhaps allow reformists to negotiate back some things. The regime may permit moderate Solidarity leaders to act as representatives of Solidarity. The role of a new Solidarity will be limited. The Polish regime may, for example, take back the work-free Saturdays and reduce the open right to strike to workers’ actions for a particular reason. If the regime succeeds in driving a wedge between the militants and moderates, that would lead, I think, to some fundamental changes in the workers’ movements, perhaps leading to generation gaps even between workers in their twenties and those in their forties.

“Jeszcze Polska nie zginęła...” (Poland is not yet lost...)

By Dr. Louis L. Ortmayer

Transcribed by Dan Turk ‘84

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 18 January 1982