Continued from page 1

Charlotte over use of the new McDowell Water Treatment facility. It is a lack of treatment capacity, along with a recessionary economy, that is currently contributing to a deficiency in local housing in Davidson.

Nevertheless, two housing developments are underway at this time.

The Kimberly subdevelopment off of Griffith Street has current approval to build up to 39 patio-type townhouses, although sewage facilities are currently available for only 20 homes. Davidson Landing, near the entrance to Interstate 77, now may be developed to contain 19 houses. The Lake Norman Development Corporation, which is a subsidiary of the SYNCO holding company of Charlotte, is responsible for this subdevelopment. This company has strong ties with Davidson College. The College has money invested in the company and it is partially run by alumni. Ultimately, much of the west part of town, along Lake Norman, could be developed by this company.

There is also a strong local drive to establish a care facility for the elderly in Davidson, most likely on Concord Road.

The neighboring towns of Cornelius and Huntersville are just now beginning to opt for expanded industrial growth. There is extensive industrial expansion in the UNCC area of Mecklenburg County, so that Mayor MacCormac believes that there might someday be a problem with competition for funds between that area and the northern end of the county. At present, development in the Davidson area seems to be bearing fruit much as planned.

John Richards ’83

Continued from page 1

2:15 today, class reunions this afternoon and tonight, a banquet this evening, a parade down Main Street at noon tomorrow, and the presentation of Alumni awards tomorrow afternoon.

Special class meetings include the 50th reunion of the class of '32, the 25th reunion of the class of '57, and the 10th reunion of the class of '72.

Spring Convocation and Alumni gatherings have been scheduled on the same weekend since 1972. Prior to 1971, convocation occurred only in the fall and Alumni Weekend happened during the summer.

The Alumni enjoy the current situation more, according to Director of Alumni Relations Zachary Long, because it allows them to see the campus in session and have contact with students. Mr. Long also says, however, that fewer students will be involved in Alumni relations this weekend due to the untimely scheduling of Spring Frolics.

Governor Hunt and Phillip Caldwell

Make it with us and

Science degree there in 1962. He finished law school at UNC-Chapel Hill two years later and went to Nepal to serve as an economic advisor to the Monarch’s government. Hunt was elected lieutenant governor in 1973 and governor in 1976. He became North Carolina’s first two-term governor when he was reelected in 1980.

Caldwell is a graduate of Harvard Business School and the father of Lawrence C. Caldwell, a 1968 Davidson graduate. He became chairman of the board of Ford Motor Company two years ago when Henry Ford II resigned. Caldwell had served as president of Ford Motor for just six months, after a successful career with the firm’s Philco, North American Truck, and overseas operations.

David Resnick ’85

Looking for a chance to move in the fast lane? Then check out Marine Corps Aviation. The training is superb. Begin as early as your Freshman year. Train only during the summer, with no additional requirements during the academic year. The challenges are unique. Your ticket to fly is your college diploma and your drive to succeed.

If you’ve got what it takes, you could be at the controls of anything from a Cobra to a Harrier to the hottest thing flying, the F-18 Hornet.

See your Marine Corps Officer Selection Officer when he visits your campus or call him at (704) 371-6128, today.