Editorial

"The primary aim of the college extends beyond the bounds of denomination to the Christian Community."

Something is happening in Poland, but first let me tell you what happened in South Carolina over Christmas break.

Just after Christmas, I visited some friends in a college town in South Carolina, where I used to live. The
second night that I was there, I started getting nostalgic and decided to drop by the College Union to look
up a few people I hadn’t seen in some time. Unfortunately, the College Union was closed, but I didn’t know
that. I meandered up to the Union, as I had done all during high school, and walked through the door
when I heard a deep Sheriff Lobo-type voice that said, "Boy, come over here RIGHT NOW."

Well, evidently, it’s not a smart thing to walk into a closed college union in South Carolina, no matter how
good your intentions are. For the next forty-five minutes, two campus cops, two town cops, and one 300 lb. security
guard proceeded to run me through the cleaners. They made me repeat my story five times (“Yes sir, I’m a
Davidson College sophomore... Yes sir, I just drove up from Alabama... etc.”), searched me and my car, and asked questions
like “Why is your hair like that? Why do you want to see your friends?” and “Why are you dressed
like that?” (Somehow I don’t think they would care much about an honor code). In the end, they let me
go. I hadn’t done anything more than wear odd clothes and look suspicious, I suppose. I didn’t enjoy those forty-five
minutes and even though it was funny in retrospect, it wasn’t much fun at the time. It made me think
about people who might be arrested for little more than wearing unusual clothing, taking walks at night, or going to
visit friends. The next day when I saw a picture of tanks on the streets of Poland in the morning
newspaper, the lesson those cops in South Carolina taught me really struck home. Somehow it wasn’t just another news story,
but something that made me feel sick and helpless at the same time. Perhaps I just overreacted to a simple
mistake by a couple of well-intentioned Southern cops, but it’s worth thinking about.

That’s what happened in South Carolina. Now Poland. Are the Polish people just overreacting to a mistake by their government?
A government that does what should be good for its people doesn’t just make a mistake in declaring martial law.
A government for the people, what Poland claims to have, wouldn’t do something like that, would it? Well, it's worth
thinking about...

Elsewhere in this issue, there are three open letters and a reprint of the last copy of SOLIDARITY WEEKLY to
be published before the military occupation. (The headline reads FLAG AND DOOR. It refers to a door and a blood-spattered
flag on which workers carried the body of a 17-year-old student killed in the Gdansk uprising of December 1970.) The
letters and newspaper are from Poland and are reprinted by permission of the Committee in Support of Solidarity-Polish Workers Task
Force. They didn’t cost the Davidsonian a penny and, in fact, anyone is free to reprint them.

DAVIDSONIAN

January 8, 1982

To the Editor,

The Christmas Gift Fund went very well. Over thirty student solicitors...raised $3,659.20. The gift has been forwarded to the St.
Croix Hospital of Haiti through the Medical Benevolence Foundation.

"Thanks,
Charlie Summers
Chaplain

To the Editor:

I just received Christmas packages wrapped in the Davidsonian of October 30, 1981. As an old alumnus, I read it
at first with interest and then with increasing dismay. I find it incredible that mature college-age young men and women
in a college renowned for its high educational standards and end product could find anything interesting, literary, stimulating, or educational
in the part I read, which must have been the "ripe" section. Cartoons, even! Professor Lilly would turn over in
his grave!

The ultimate was the bit of pointless prose in David Bank’s “On the Campus.” You must really have been hard
up for something to print. The writing therein, like the first meal the author offered to cook, is offal! (Either
spelling or either meaning equally pertains.)

Lastly, regarding the article on the same page (copy enclosed) pertaining to sexist policy at Davidson as manifested by a
2:1 male/female ratio, I have only one question: “Who is complaining?” If it is the girls, perhaps they belong in
San Francisco or Greenwich Village. For the good of the South, hopefully most Davidson girls will proclaim, “Viva la Ratio!”
Would that we had been so lucky in my day when the ratio was about 300:1. Ah so! Times change!

Kenneth H. Barber
an unreconstructed, straight, male chauvinist from the Class of 1946

* * *

Last week, after a good deal of thought and discussion, the members of the men’s swimming team decided that they
would be unable to compete during the 1981-82 season. This decision is based on problems arising from current Davidson athletic
policies. In the past, the team has been able to compete quite successfully, compiling a 31-11 record over the last
three years. Many of these wins were over scholarship-funded teams. This success can be attributed to the fact that the
team has been able to train together over the Christmas break in NCAA sanctioned facilities which Davidson cannot provide. This
training trip has been the backbone of the season, providing crucial overdistance training. As of this year, Davidson will no
longer fund any athletic training trips. The majority of the members on the team do not have access to facilities
at home, and the only alternative is to train at Davidson. This is not possible due to the amount of
time that would be spent in an improperly ventilated and filtered pool. The poor quality of the facilities also requires
the team to have home meets in Charlotte at considerable cost.

These conditions are an overall reflection of the conditions in athletics at Davidson. Between 1970-71 and 1980-81, the number of
varsity sports has increased from 10 to 18, and the number of students has increased from approximately 1000 to 1300
with a proportionate increase in the number of students participating in intramural sports. Yet over the same period, athletic expenditures
have decreased from 8.8% to 7.1% of the total college expenditures. These figures suggest an overall lack of commitment to
athletics at Davidson.

The members of the swimming team would rather not compete at all than to compete at a level below their
true abilities. We feel that all athletes at Davidson wish to compete at their full potential. It is unfortunate that
Davidson does not provide an environment in which this is possible.

The 1981-82 Swimming Team
Mike Schremmer, Rick Williams, Co-Captains
