Flying Trees and Hardhats: A Taste of the Vereen Bell Winners

What do flying trees, squashed pennies, and a hardhat filled with water have in common? They are a few of
the memorable images found in the three student works receiving top honors in this year’s Vereen Bell Writing Awards.

The winners are senior Victor Hawk, first place; senior David Aldridge, second place; and junior Kirsten McDonald, third place. Their
work was selected among 34 entries from 19 students by poet and Davidson alumnus Charles Wright.

All three have the writer’s knack for the out-of-the-ordinary image, the one that hits the reader like a well-aimed punch.
All three recreate a character’s “voice” remarkably well. And all three touch on something important, some elusive and mysterious thing
about humanness, as only an artist can.

The differences among the winning entries are more striking than the similarities, however. Their tones are whimsical or raucous, ironic
or bittersweet. Their styles range from traditional chronological narrative to stream of consciousness. Their sentences unfold languorously or in quick-fire
series of fragments.

A sureness of tone marks Victor Hawk’s first-place entry, which contains both a story, “The Fugue and Barbra,” and a
collection of poems.

“The Fugue and Barbra” is a puzzling tale of a young couple’s encounter with “fuguing,” recurrent, unpredictable periods of amnesia.
Richard Jackson, the husband, is a hard-cussing blue-collar worker. In the third poem, it is “a straight and wide truth,
like Meret Bell circa 1944.” Sometimes the soul can slowly vanish and some time later reappear on the other side;
hummingbirds grow in tunnels.

Inspiration, that inconspicuous roll, sudden trillium sprouting out of the Jersey taxicab, appears in “The Life You Save May Be
Your Own.”

David Aldridge’s second-place entry, “The Life You Save,” is set on a plantation in the woods, and out of town,
where there are no streetlights or sidewalks and “they looked at you with hard eyes.” The heat, the thwack of
the ball into the glove, and the warbling of the beautiful and inviolable state bird are all exquisitely recreated in
a story of great magic.

“What Flannery Forgot to Say for Lucynell,” Kirsten McDonald’s third-place entry, is the imaginative retelling of Flannery O’Connor’s short story,
“The Life You Save May Be Your Own.”

“The Life You Save” tells of an encounter between a one-armed homeless man and an old woman and her 30-year-old
retarded daughter. O’Connor’s story is really about the man, Mr. Shiftlet. McDonald retells the story from the daughter’s perspective.

Lucynell’s world is a shifting kaleidoscope of thought and sense fragments. She is especially aware of textures and tastes, like
Benjy, the retarded man in William Faulkner’s The Sound and the Fury. But there is a rhythm in Lucynell’s words,
echoing the steady routine of her life, like a poem.

Lucynell describes eating breakfast with her mother: “I said nothing to her; I said nothing to her; I said nothing.
It was the same, words or no words; no words was easier. After filling, kitchen flowed to porch, and her
wild; like always.”

For Lucynell, the kitchen flowed; it is the wild which moves around her. Sitting in the car, she says, “The
blacktop drew town nearer and trees flew.”

Behind the story is a psychological portrait of Lucynell. Her world divides into familiar and unfamiliar. She craves the new
and is fascinated by Mr. Shiftlet because he is new: “He was curious, like a new weed in the front
yard, or a strange cut on my familiar palm rubbing against my familiar face.” But she is afraid of the
unfamiliar and “shuffles with hesitancy” when Mr. Shiftlet takes her to a restaurant.

McDonald’s story “works” with or without “The Life You Save.” Lucynell’s abandonment has a more powerful note of finality in
McDonald’s version. It is a measure of the author’s success in making Lucynell real that the reader remembers her long
after the story ends.

The tradition of writer...
