developed a kind of alliance with South Africa to try to get Rhodesia to accept some form of black rule,
but nothing significant was accomplished. The neighboring black states were, of course, very suspicious of Kissinger; he didn’t have a
lot of credibility with the governments he had worked against in very recent times. And so, Kissinger’s policy didn’t work,
but nevertheless, even in the last years of the Ford administration, the switch had taken place. The government was beginning
to try to identify with the large government. It became increasingly clear even to the coldest cold war view that
we would be left out in the cold vis-à-vis the Soviet Union if we seemed to be the only country
in the world that identified with the white-dominated regimes. So, from a strictly cold war point of view, it didn’t
seem to any longer make much sense to identify with South Africa.

In January 1977, when Carter took office, we saw a whole new group of characters come to power in regard
to African affairs. You can often tell by the people who are in charge what an administration’s inclinations are in
a particular area. For the United States’ African policy, the most important Carter appointment was Andy Young, who became Ambassador
to the United Nations and was the chief policy maker for the continent of Africa. Strangely enough, I have always
been surprised at the general attitude in this country toward Andy Young on this issue. I’ve known Andy Young for
a very long time. When I was chairman of the African Affairs committee, I would always ask him to come
over to testify first on African affairs. He has always been considered very, very conservative on African affairs, which was
quite to the contrary of his image. He’s even more conservative on African affairs than I would have been. He
has a very liberal image, I think probably just because he was very free about what he said about African
affairs and because he was frank about his own feelings.

In any case, there came a group in with the Carter administration who believed that we ought to adopt a
new African policy, or at least to further emphasize the policy that Kissinger had switched to in 1976. And we
began to see immediately such a policy implemented. We started to make statements in condemnation of apartheid in South Africa.
In Austria, Vice-President Mondale told the Prime Minister of South Africa that we would begin to distance ourselves more and
more from the Republic of South Africa if they did not begin to show some kind of progress toward sharing
power. There were a whole series of things that happened toward the Republic of South Africa. We began to form
the so-called five power contact group, involving the United States, Canada, France, Great Britain, and Germany, to begin negotiations with
South Africa and the black front-line states on the independence of Namibia. With the British, we began immediately to put
a lot of pressure on Ian Smith and the Rhodesians to try to bring about change to majority rule. African
policy became a rather central part of American foreign policy. Most of the leaders of Africa came to this country
and met with the president. The South African situation itself began to unravel when the riots occurred in the black
township of Soweto, when Steve Biko was killed, and so forth. Each of those incidents caused the American government to
take an even tougher position toward the Republic of South Africa.

Over the last year of the Carter administration, the invasion of Afghanistan in December 1979 began to take more and
more of Carter’s interest and focus. He began to shift much more toward a coldwar policy. This had its effects
in Africa as it did in the other countries of the world. There was a kind of shift back to
a greater emphasis on Soviet policy and less interest in regional areas of the world and their problems. Nevertheless, in
that period we just began to get significant amounts of development assistance in Southern Africa as well as in other
parts of Africa. It was a period in which we gave virtually no arms to any country south of the
Sahara. Virtually none—we gave very small amounts to Zaire, and even smaller amounts to Kenya.

When the Reagan administration came to power, there was a pretty sharp reversal back in the other direction. In the
Reagan administration, it is a little difficult to identify the players. The new Ambassador to the United Nations, Jeane Kirkpatrick,
has said that Carter’s policy in Africa was a misguided policy, with too much emphasis on human rights. In the
African bureau, the Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs is Chester Crocker. Not a bad appointment in my judgment;
he is a professional Africanist, conservative and sympathetic to the general Reagan view, but a very competent person. Secretary of
State Haig has had relatively little experience in African affairs. It is difficult to say in terms of the National
Security Council because Allen never expressed himself on Africa and Mr. Clark has not yet either.

What has happened generally with regard to the Reagan administration is a less distant policy toward the Republic of South
Africa. It is important to understand that to Africans, the Republic of South Africa is the issue. It is not
three other things; it is not the Soviet Union; it is South Africa. From the black African point of view,
the Republic of South Africa, ruled by a minority of white Afrikaners, is the source of all evil. Blacks have
absolutely no rights in the Republic of South Africa. They are forced into 13% of the land even though they
make up 87% of the population. No black person by definition, by the color of his skin, may vote in
any election or may run for office in the Republic of South Africa.

In an interview with Walter Cronkite, Reagan said that he did not accept the South African form of government but
that he felt that the Republic of South Africa had been getting a rather bum rap. He said that Americans
ought to have a somewhat greater sympathy for South Africa for no other reason than the fact that South Africa
fought with us in every war. In fact, they did fight with us in World War I and World War
II, but it is a bit of a misreading of history because it happens that the government of South Africa
that fought in the World Wars was in opposition to the present government. The Afrikaner government came to power only
in 1948. Prime Minister Vorster was interned all through World War II because he was pro-Nazi. There are many other
illustrations that indicate that we are going to take a different position toward the Republic of South Africa. We have
now reassigned military aid there that we had taken out during the Carter administration. We have discontinued condemning apartheid except
when pressed very hard to do so.

In the case of Namibia, however, the Reagan administration has pretty much followed Carter’s policy. The five-power contact group has
continued to meet with South Africa and the black African states and continue to try to find a resolution to
that problem. The Reagan administration has also continued the Carter policy of supporting the new black government of Zimbabwe. Indeed,
it has offered rather significant development assistance to that new state.

By Dick Clark, compiled and edited by Dan Turk
DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982
