The Bold Nature of Robert Marsh

An Avery College Professor’s Crayon Drawings on Exhibit in the Gallery

If you have passed the doors to the Gallery lately, you could not have escaped a glimpse of coquette sunlight flirting with lush hydrangeas, or Dan River floodwater vanquishing forgotten banks, or a bevvy of lazy haystacks sunning themselves in a field. Robert Marsh’s “Landscape Drawings” demand attention and response. The rhythmic masculinity of Marsh’s oil crayon strokes record the heartbeat of the works, convincing the viewer of a dynamic landscape moving and changing through time. Thick, deep colors beckon the eye and render a space inviting the viewer to participate.

Marsh is presently a professor at Avery College, a small co-ed Baptist college in the Southern Virginia town of Danville. After receiving his MFA from the University of Mississippi in printmaking, he continued to work predominantly in that medium until several years ago when oil crayon, or “painting” as he calls it, began to claim a larger percentage of his time. Still, a distinctly graphic quality persists in his “Landscape Drawings,” works which derive primarily from the Pennsylvania County images surrounding the artist.

Marsh’s paintings reveal a sharply-honed consciousness of shape. Often he juxtaposes the pastoral with the man-made not only because he finds an appealing and natural interaction between such shapes but also because local landscapes in reality seldom appear devoid of all human evidence. One group of Marsh’s works, including “Cows,” “Pigs,” “Haystacks,” and “Hydrangeas,” do not necessarily proffer a synthetic subject matter but nevertheless do present a domesticated Nature. This series possesses a unique characteristic of the majority of Marsh’s works in the Gallery in that each of the three works displays the artist’s manipulation of similar, usually large shapes throughout space.

The rhythmic patterning of the visible strokes permeates the entire exhibit. Also, as is most visible in “Haystacks,” since it is composed of four sections, Marsh uses the polyptych or multi-section vehicle to counteract the horizontal thrust of the large rhythmic shapes.

Strong horizontal bands and angles span many of Marsh’s landscapes. The artist harnesses these bands with the vertical space in between sections of a work allowing a normally static element to become much more dynamic. “Haystacks,” for example, would not be nearly as impressive a piece if it were done on one continuous surface. Each of the four sections succeeds individually as a picture but yet does not yield the power of the whole. “Haystacks,” the largest polyptych which Robert Marsh has attempted, was created with the Gallery’s dimensions in mind. Originally Marsh designed a fifth section for the right end but sacrificed the plan for artistic judgment.

Three of Marsh’s four Dan River “paintings” reveal the same horizontal bands one may note in “Haystacks.” In “CP&L Company” and “Dam Dan River,” both diptychs, the device of interrupting the horizontals is particularly successful when compared to “Above Flood Stage,” a single picture which allows the eye no relief from the angular band which dominates the scene. Within all three of these works Marsh creates a mood of precarious tension by imbuing the simple, straight, angular shapes with an almost subliminal turbulence rendered by his visible strokes. The conflict between the two gives birth to the excitement of the works.

Perhaps the most striking quality of Robert Marsh’s oil crayon landscapes resides in their color. Just as the shapes and textures of the works are imposing, the hues which the paintings brandish divulge a brazen profundity in Marsh’s art. The artist achieves amazing depth by layering porous coats of primary colors and their complementaries to render objects in light and shadow. This textured stratification of hue engenders in the landscapes an appearance akin to that of Impressionistic paintings. However, Marsh’s works do not disclose the scientific study of light as found in Impressionism but rather a more subjective, intuitive, and perhaps Romantic response to color itself. The living volume in

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982

13