THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXII, Number 4

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Friday, 15 October 1982

Religion at Davidson

An Interview with Spencer and Zimmermann

By PEGGY PIEROTTI '86

College President Samuel Spencer and Vice-president of Academic Affairs T. C. Price Zimmermann were interviewed this week concerning the place of religion at Davidson. Although the interviews were conducted individually, Spencer and Zimmermann were asked similar questions and their responses are recorded here together.

Davidsonian: How important is the aspect of religion at Davidson?

Spencer: I think it’s very important because, of course, the college was founded by people who believed that it was a legitimate connection between reason and faith, and that the two really went hand in hand with the kind of education that they were interested in. Therefore, it has remained as a basic commitment of the College.

Zimmermann: I think it’s very important in the total make-up of the community and the context in which life and teaching and learning go on. It’s an important part of the make-up and the outlook of the faculty, administration, and most of the students.

How do you feel that the religious influence has changed throughout the history of Davidson?

S: In several ways. I suppose the most obvious way is that up until about 20 years ago—as with the case with most church-related colleges—there were some outward symbols which seemed to indicate to the public that we were a church-related college. I’m talking about such things as required worship, especially, and stricter rules. I never thought that those were fundamental to the church relationship or to the Christian commitment; that really isn’t what a church-related college is about. Having those symbols doesn’t make it church-related, and not having them doesn’t make it not church-related.

Another way in which it has changed is in the concept that all members of the faculty and staff are virtually officers of the Presbyterian Church. Over the years, of course, there has been a much broader view that, in the first place, they shouldn’t necessarily be Presbyterian, and secondly, that they shouldn’t necessarily be Protestant or all committed to the Christian faith, though the policy stated now is that the preponderant majority of the faculty should be committed to the Christian faith and that all members of the faculty should be in basic sympathy with the College’s position.

Z: Since I only know well the last five years of Davidson’s history, anything I say about the past is speculative. I think that the form in which the commitment is expressed has changed a great deal, but I think that the commitment remains equally as strong. In the early days the students used to have daily chapel and two weekly services on Sunday and weekly prayer meetings; today certainly nothing is required in the way of attendance, but it is still very strong despite the lack of requirement.

What effect does Davidson’s status as a church-related college have on Davidson’s image in public and academic communities?

S: I think the fact that it is a church-related college affects different people different ways. Some feel that because it is church-related it is sectarian; I don’t think that is an accurate perception. I think that Davidson has proved and is proving that you can be good academically and still be committed to your church relationship. For many people, being church-related is a plus factor.

Z: I think it is a strength to those who believe and a weakness to those who don’t believe in this sort of commitment or purpose. Some people dismiss all church-related colleges as compromised by dogma, despite the fact that education at Davidson is not compromised by dogma.

Do you think that the relationship with the church strengthens Davidson as a liberal arts college?

S: I think it strengthens it as a type of liberal arts college. The people who founded this college felt that there is an advantage in having a college that is dedicated to the proposition that there can be a valuable combination of reason and faith. In that sense, yes, it strengthens it. It doesn’t mean that non-church-related colleges are poorer liberal arts colleges, nor does it mean that because of that we are a good liberal arts college.

Student Body Rejects Semester Plan

By DAVID RESNIK ’85

The Davidson student body overwhelmingly rejected the Semester Planning Committee’s proposal in last Tuesday’s SGA referendum by a 743-120 vote. The vote against the proposal amounted to 77.2 percent of the votes cast, while 22.8 percent voted in favor. Student Government Association Vice-president Boe Young says he is “not surprised” by the outcome and that it indicates the students are “solidly against” the semester system.

According to Young, the voter turnout was higher than “all other elections.” The referendum drew 962 votes as compared to barely 600 in last year’s SGA elections. Young attributes the high turnout to a strong negative vote. The students who voted negatively, says Young, “were more eager to vote.”

Young is quick to point out that the turnout is not misleading, however. Even if every student had voted, the 743 opposed to the change would still constitute a solid majority.

SGA President Tim Johnston will present the results of the referendum to the faculty at their 19 October meeting. The SGA will also report its results in a letter to Semester Planning Committee Chairman Sam Maloney.

Last year the Educational Policies Committee brought forth a proposal to change the grading scale, but the faculty rejected it in response to student objections. Johnston cannot predict if the referendum will affect the faculty, however, because he says that the faculty is “very unpredictable.”