Hall, Tribus, Wilson, Carroll

Snag B-ball Awards

The 1982 edition of the Wildcats gathered for perhaps the last time Monday night. After the awards had been handed out, senior Jamie Hall and junior Cliff Tribus had claimed top honors.

Jamie received the John M. Belk Award as the team’s most valuable player. As the team leader, Jamie also earned the top rebounder (7.0 rpg) and leading foul shooter (.796) honors.

Cliff won the most improved player award along with the coveted Cat Award, for which Jamie was in close contention. “The system weighs the important things in team play,” said first-year coach and Cat System creator Bobby Hussey. “They include academics, overall play in games and practice, dedication, unselfish play, and hard work in all areas. It signifies what we want in a student-athlete. The competition was close between Jamie and Cliff. The difference was probably that Cliff had a 4.0 grade point average (in pre-med) last term.”

Sophomore forward Kenny Wilson claimed the D.G. Martin Award for hustle and dedication. Junior guard John Carroll copped the Robert McLeod Award as the team’s leading defensive player with 31 thefts.

Steve Soud ’84

Photo by C.K. Nichols ’82

Greek Week!

“OOOOSH!

Ultimate!

Men’s Tennis Bounds into Tournament Optimistic

Tuning up for the Southern Conference tournament, the Davidson men’s team came home with impressive routs over Vermont (8-1), J.C. Smith (9-0), and UNCC (9-0), and two heartbreaking 4-5 losses to Winthrop and West Virginia from April 5-13.

The Wildcats are now 13-11, a record which, following last year’s admirable 23-6 season, could be dubbed a disappointment. But Coach Jeff Frank says otherwise. “I was afraid this was going to happen. We lost three of our top six players off last year’s team. Rarely do freshmen make it in the top six here at Davidson, but this year we have three: Sedge Gray, John Hackett, and Skep Robinson.”

A characteristic of the 1982 team is its uncanny ability to play well on clay. This year’s conference tournament, April 22-24, will be held on the clay courts at the Citadel, so obviously the Cats are eagerly gearing themselves for the “new season.”

“I’m not overly optimistic because we are so young,” said Frank, “but I am confident since we're playing on clay. We got shelled by conference foes East Tennessee, Furman, and UT-C, so those fellows appear overconfident. But our guys came out thinking we could have beaten them had we played on clay. We’re so young so I’m not looking for any miracles, but I do think we could be a spoiler and pull a few upsets.”

The most consistent play so far has come from no. 1 seed Mark Nottingham, 15-9, no. 2 seed Nevins Todd, 14-7, and no. 5 seed Victor Taylor, 15-6. Said Frank, “I think Nevins Todd, in particular, has a super chance to win his division.”

by Scott Huie ’85

17