AI Drinks Coffee for Peace  
By RICHARD RICHARDS ’84  

The smell of apple cider, the dim light of white candles, and the mystery of oriental tapestries enhanced the atmosphere of a noncommercialized Christmas which 175 people celebrated in advance. Various members of the College community entertained the assembly with music, poetry, and drama, echoing the themes of Amnesty International. AI’s First Annual Christmas Coffeehouse was a quiet success.

The coffeehouse was motivated by a cause consonant with the mandate of AI as a “worldwide human rights movement which works impartially for the release of prisoners of conscience: men and women detained anywhere for their beliefs, color, ethnic origin, sex, religion, or language, provided they have neither used nor advocated violence.” Dr. Alberto Hernandez-Chiroldes of Davidson informed AI of the plight of Gustavo Arcos, a political prisoner in Cuba, and Davidson’s AI chapter organized this event to extend hope and support to his family. They collected $1 donations to send to the family and encouraged people to write letters and to sign petitions on behalf of Mr. Arcos. AI Chapter President Elizabeth Kiss hopes that this effort may have “gotten the ball rolling” for the Arcos family.

Perhaps more structured than a coffeehouse should be, the program opened with two hymns by the Gospel Choir. Other singers and musicians who performed for the occasion were Catherine McMillan, Sylvie Adenis, James Barrat, James Funsten, Frank Brice, Laura McDonald, and Sam Sommers. Local singer/songwriter John Stanfield also appeared at the end of the program to sing two songs.

Professor Tony Abbott brought to the attention of the audience the “rich tradition of the poetry of freedom.” He proceeded to read poetry by Denise Levertov that was written during the anguish of the injustices of Vietnam. Elizabeth Kiss read a translated Hungarian poem that was written in 1951 but which could not be printed due to the communist suppression of literature. The poem, “One Sentence,” movingly describes the evidence of tyranny in the land. Elizabeth said that the poem was printed within 48 hours of the beginning of the revolution of the Hungarian people in 1956, and this attests to the poem’s truthful voice of experience. Students Suzanne Dickey, Robin Kidd, John Richards, and professor Lauren Yoder also read poetry. Religion professor Dan Rhodes read the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, beginning, “All human beings are born free and equal. . . .” This document serves as the basis for the AI Mandate.

One highlight of the evening was Eric Fichtner’s and Roy Fuller’s dramatic performance of excerpts from C. P. Taylor’s “Good.” The play dramatizes the social situation of Nazi Germany as it strains the friendship of a National Socialist Party member and his Jewish friend.

Christmas Gift Fund Recipient Chosen

The Chapel Committee has chosen the Agricultural Rescue Operation in Southern Lebanon, organized by the Middle East Council of Churches, for the 1982 Davidson Christmas Gift Fund. During the recent Israeli invasion of Lebanon, all the crops of southern Lebanon were destroyed; there was no fuel for irrigation, no workers to harvest oranges, farm roads were destroyed, and planting schedules were disrupted. The Agricultural Rescue Operation seeks to provide barley and wheat seeds, fruit seedlings, dairy and irrigation equipment, cattle vaccines, beehives, reforestation aid, and more. These should help the local farmers become self-supporting as soon as possible. The A.R.O. will also provide medical and social services to families in the region. The total budget for the A.R.O. is $178,000. The Davidson Christmas Gift Fund hopes to raise $7,000 for this relief effort. The fund is coordinated by the Chaplain’s Office, and student volunteers serve as the solicitors. All the Davidson contributions will be channeled through the Office of World Hunger of the Presbyterian Church.Church, U.S. One hundred percent of the contributions will go to the A.R.O.

News Shorts

WDAV Radiothon Successful
By BOYD BLACKBURN ’86

Last week’s fourth annual WDAV Radiothon collected $70,757 in pledges from almost 1,400 contributors. Over 200 volunteers, organized by staff member Pam Stephenson, solicited the money from classical music lovers in WDAV’s listening area. Station manager, John Clark, said he expected more contributions to be coming through the mail. The Radiothon lasted from November 28 to December 5. 

In order to encourage audience participation, the station aired several special events during the week including a live broadcast from the Morrison Room of saxophone and string quartets from the North Carolina School of the Arts. The funds raised will be used to increase the hours of the professional staff and replace the twenty-year-old production console now in use. The new console, equipped with a state-of-the-art computer circuit board, will cost between $12,000 and $15,000. It will be used to make and mix tapes of live musical events such as Charlotte Symphony Orchestra concerts.

According to Clark, the station wants “to continue to provide an excellent classical music and cultural arts programming service.” From the results of the Radiothon, it is evident the public supports WDAV’s commitment.

SGA Mail Service
By ROXANNA GUILFORD ’85

Changes are due soon in the three-year-old SGA mail service. Although it was revived five weeks ago, no permanent workable plan has been established. This task will be in the hands of Sentelle Dorm Senator David Hutchinson. In past years, students left their mail in the faculty mail room for the Resident Advisors to deliver. This system, according to SGA chancellor Mark Oldenburg, was not always well-accepted by the overburdened RAs. In addition, slow delivery beset the system. Hutchinson remarked that it would often take more than a week for a letter to be delivered.

By the end of the 1981-1982 year, the mail system had disappeared. However, a few weeks before fall exams, the SGA reinstated the service. Now students take their mail to the faculty mail room where Hutchinson picks it up. While later on there will be a division of responsibility, Hutchinson says, “Now I just deliver it myself.” Although he can be counted on for almost same-day delivery, he plans to develop a new system using the Dorm Senators to deliver the mail. He anticipates that these changes will be made within the next couple of weeks.

Both Oldenburg and Hutchinson acknowledge that relatively few people are aware of the service. “Not a whole lot of people know about it,” admitted Oldenburg. Hutchinson agreed: “I don’t think as many people have taken advantage of it as could have.”

Winter Elections Postponed
By JEFF MANN ’84

The SGA announced this week that Winter term elections will be held the third Tuesday after Christmas break instead of this Tuesday as normally called for in the SGA By-laws. Students will vote for Union and Y-Student Service Corps officers, Freshman advisors, and Davidsonian, Wildcat Handbook, and Quips and Cranks editors on 18 January with sign-up deadline 11 January, except the Y signup which ends this Thursday.

SGA Chancellor Mark Oldenburg cited a “lack of foresight” for the delay, saying, “We just weren’t ready.” SGA Vice-president Boe Young said they hoped to get better publicity next month. “That last week is bad anyway. There are a lot of exams,” he added. Up to now, the delay has caused problems only for the Y, hence the early sign-up. Y President Cathi Dumas said they have scheduled a retreat for the third weekend and needed to know who intends to run in order to organize it. She expects the offices to be uncontested.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 10 December 1982