. Science degree. Peter Knox (class of '80) Ean ot Fore ot KS es tor of Law degree. 

The College will also present the Algernon Sidney Sullivan Award for "unselfish service without due reward." David Reik

The Student Conduct Council and the Office of the Dean of Students wish to remind members of this community that stealing, whether it be away from Davidson or on-campus, is an Honor Code violation. Furthermore, stealing road signs is a federal offense; this act is irresponsible at best and life-threatening at worst. Because this practice has been viewed rather cavalierly in the past, students will be given until Wednesday, May 12, 1982, to return or to deposit any stolen road signs in their possession to the campus security station. After that time, students will be charged with a violation of the Honor Code for stealing road signs or for possession of stolen signs; other students are honor-bound to report violators.

International

The Union International Committee will sponsor an International Festival from 2:00 P.M. until after 5:00 on Saturday, May 8, between the Union and the Martin Chemistry Building. The festivities will include a soccer tournament, a yard sale, and a chance to sample food from twelve different countries, according to Union International Committee Chairman Melis Nicolaides ('83) from Cyprus. The festival’s purpose is “to make the students of Davidson acquainted with the international students and their cultures,” Melis said. “It is a good opportunity for all of the foreign students to showcase their heritage.”

American students are involved, Melis said. They will represent their respective countries with food, posters, and other examples of their cultures. The International Committee has received $300 from the Union Board for Spring Term and is spending $20 for each country, he said. 

The soccer tournament has the theme of a World Cup. Each four-man team will register in the name of a country. The half-hour long games will be played in front of the Union, and a registration fee of 50¢ per player will be used to buy a prize. Teams can register at the Union Desk or during the festival, even two minutes before they play,” Melis said. Mike Goode is in charge of the yard sale and the Union will get ten percent of the proceeds, Melis continued. Members of the International Committee include Beth Gerken, Sissy McCamy, Helen Thorpe, and Chris Tiernan. The WDAV radio station will advertise the international festival to try to attract people from the town, Melis said. The Bahamas, China, Egypt, England, France, Germany, Greece, India, Ireland, Mexico, Pakistan, and Spain will be represented.

Davidson Hosts NCSA International Music Program

Davidson College will host the first annual residency of the International Music Program at the North Carolina School of the Arts from 24 June through 9 July, culminating in a series of five chamber orchestra concerts on the Davidson College campus.

“Davidson College is very pleased to be able to make this kind of cultural offering available to the Charlotte community,” said Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr., Davidson College president. “We’re looking forward to this very appropriate association with the School of the Arts.”

The 26 students participating in the NCSA International Music Program will be housed in dormitories at Davidson College. About one-third of the music students are from Europe and major music schools throughout the U.S. Concerts will be performed in Hodson Hall on 27 June, and 3-8 July with NCSA faculty artists Stephen Ships and George Trautwein.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

One thing official that has already been happening,” Religion Professor Max Polley says, is the reason for the appearance of 10:00 classes in next year’s schedule. Mandatory chapel once occupied the hour from 10:00 to 11:00. When that tradition faded away, organizations and committees saw the free hour as the perfect meeting time. Students saw it as a good break between classes. However, as Professor Polley points out, “It’s an extremely valuable time for teaching,” too useful for many professors to resist when scheduling TBA courses. The P.E. department in particular plans many classes in the middle of the morning.

Diana Bohrer '85

Continued from page 1

community.” Last spring, the faculty passed a resolution asking the Trustees to dissolve all discrimination based on sex. In keeping with Davidson's desire for a diverse student body, Dr. Griffith said the Trustees have agreed to commit the College to meeting the demonstrated financial needs of all accepted applicants for this year, despite student aid cuts. Dr. Griffith said Davidson will be able to continue to offer “aid-blind” admissions in future years. “I think to abandon aid-blind policy would go against what this institution has stood for for a long time,” he said. He added that he plans to start a student letter-writing campaign to put pressure on congressmen to continue student financial aid programs.

Davidson is also trying to create a more diverse student body by attracting applicants from new areas. Dr. Griffith and Ms. Pierce said that although Davidson will continue to draw mostly students from the Carolinas, the southern and mid-Atlantic states, the admissions staff concentrates on some new areas as well. This year, they have worked hard...

...said that the shaping of the class into a diverse group begins with the Admissions Committee’s significant role in the application process. Each evaluator considers every application and rates it before comparing his with the others. Admissions Counselor Dick Jones said that ratings from seven to ten generally indicate that the evaluator deems the applicant worthy of acceptance, but he added that last year 1300 of the 1700 applicants received ratings high enough to be accepted. In deciding which 680 of the 1300 acceptable applicants to accept, the committee worked toward building a diverse class.

Dr. Griffith said that in evaluating an application, evaluators measure the applicants’ academic performance by the difficulty of courses the applicant has selected and by his class rank. Evaluators judge academic potential by standardized test scores, such as SAT scores, ACT scores, and achievement test scores. They judge the applicant's motivation to reach his potential by essays and recommendations. In assessing the applicant’s character, the evaluator considers such activities as community, school, church leadership, athletics, and work history. The evaluators give special consideration to applications in many cases. Sons and daughters of alumni receive special consideration, though Dr. Griffith says, “not at the expense of the student body.” Students who come from lower socio-economic levels might be given special consideration because, Dr. Griffith said, “The variable that correlates most highly with SAT scores is income.” He also says that some applicants are limited by their school system: “It may be that the applicant has taken the best courses available, but his school did not offer AP courses, foreign language courses, and the like.”

The admissions staff recruits applicants by sending letters to applicants they are interested in through the mail and by creating and hosting seminars for high school counselors. Ms. Pierce said that the staff spends much time traveling from September through the end of December. Each staff member is responsible for...

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, May 1982

---