Dr. Melinda Lesher will be leaving the Davidson community following this academic year after having taught art history here for three years. This article, the last installment in a series on Davidson’s art professors, is rather timely because her departure is part of the annual academic rearrangement of the college. However, I also feel it will be the departure of a personality very distinctive to many people, especially Humes buffs or those who frequent Cunningham Fine Arts and Oak Row. I have seen her walking in her dark cape and boots; I have known that she goes to Italy in the summers and that she specializes in Italian Renaissance art; and I have had this impression that her world of comfortable movement is very large, yet incongruously centered at a small college in the North Carolina piedmont. In this respect, she may be no different from many professors here, but I wondered: Why Davidson?—and then a larger question: Why art?

My skepticism crept into the interview—questions seem to emanate from preconceptions. I asked if she would leave Davidson with any bitterness. “I suppose your question suggests that I feel I’ve been in exile for three years,” she said, “and I really don’t feel that... I came to Davidson fully hoping, fully expecting, that this could be the rest of my life in some ways. It wasn’t just a job; it was a job I wanted.

“I started studying art because I liked research—I loved books, and I loved sitting in the library doing research. Those reasons center around her desire to key in on her research. Dr. Lesher says she has “always been interested in studying—from the time I learned how to read I’ve been interested... I love being a student. That’s one of the reasons I want to go back and continue my research.”

She added that being away from the Northeast has allowed her to recognize some things she had taken for granted, such as art museums and research facilities, and the chance to hear art lectures. The basic logistical problem, however, seemed to be the unavailability of time. The Davidson teaching system and philosophy isn’t made to accommodate the time she needs. “I really need a large block of time... My mind is not flexible enough to begin at 10 o'clock in the evening... switching from Humanities to deal with the really esoteric things I work on.”

It is those esoteric interests of Dr. Lesher’s that will occupy her time while she is in Connecticut during the coming year. She has had an article tentatively accepted by a journal in London on the decoration of the Chapel of the Priors in the Town Hall of Florence, Italy. In addition, she intends to finish an article on the dedication of that particular chapel to Saint Bernard of Clairvaux, and the relation of Bernard to the public of Florence.

Recently, Dr. Lesher arranged a show for the Mint Museum in Charlotte entitled “Italian Renaissance Paintings from Southern Museums,” which ran from October 18, 1981, to January 3, 1982. She encountered some problems—the show had to be arranged in six months and many museums refused to loan paintings—and although she said that it “ended up being a tremendous compromise in a lot of ways,” she loved the experience. “One of the reasons I took it was an opportunity to not just work with museum directors but to do research for them, the sorts of things I like doing. This was an opportunity to do the entire thing—to think about what a show would look like and then arrange objects... and also an opportunity to be more of a full-time art historian.”

Indeed, art history is not only something that Dr. Lesher enjoys. We talked about whether her work tends to be her life, and she said that it...does. I have the impression that she does not feel that such a discipline alienates some great part of herself, or forces some separation in her life. “Art history I found very challenging as an academic study... but art history also provided me an opportunity to study things that I think are absolutely incredible—works of art to me are mysteries in many ways... The search. It is a very private, hermetic activity... When I started teaching I asked myself how does one balance the two things.

It was in college I wrote a number of short stories and thought that someone uses not only his mind to create but also his hands is quite incredible. When she also said hands because I used the typewriter, but still it’s not the same as applying paint to canvas or chipping at a piece of marble. “They are works that produce awe in me and that’s why I like studying them because that awe continues—it’s something I haven’t gotten over. I was afraid when I went to graduate school that I would be trained out of that—that I would learn visual analysis so thoroughly that I would never be able to look at anything and say, ‘Wow, is that beautiful’—and fortunately I don’t think I have been trained out of that gut response to a piece of art that is very meaningful.”

As in other parts of the interview, at this juncture I asked her if she felt any frustration—whether the meticulous analysis of a finished piece of art without knowing the mental and emotional processes of the artist ever seemed like a frustrating, trivial task. She answered: “That's very difficult, but it also makes life interesting—doesn’t it?—that we can interpret things in different ways—bring in different things—and it’s not all clear-cut and black-and-white and like a geometric formula. That lack of precision is one of the things that I love about art. You can respond very personally to it, and there are all kinds of grey areas: that’s one of the things I like about Humanities... I try to teach students that one has a right, if you use your own brain, to talk about it, if you’re careful about it. I do a different kind of art history than some—I look at documents and some more specific things—but there is still a great deal of interpretation that must be done, and that is a creative process of one’s own, though perhaps not as much as making art. An artist is really successful when he conveys his feelings. That’s what art is on one level, a sort of personal statement and it should be somewhat clear; the language should be used in some way, otherwise the creation may fail... I feel the same way when I write a short story or try to answer questions for an interview; it’s very difficult to say just what you want to say.”

To find the language, Dr. Lesher has had to become familiar with the repositories of information, but more importantly she has had to define the problems which interest her. “One of the subjects I have been working on is: Why does one subject become popular? How—when you start gathering the images—can you determine a pattern? A time pattern—or in my case even a geographical one.” When I asked her what problems needed solutions, she said, “I don’t know that they need solutions; it’s just that I want to find the solutions.”

Toward the end of the interview Dr. Lesher concluded: “It’s all so amazingly personal; no one really cares—perhaps other art historians. It’s personal satisfaction.”

—Tom Pafford
DAVIDSONIAN, Friday 29 January 1982