Davidson’s admissions policies and practices

This year Davidson is the second most highly selective school in the South, according to the Cass & Birnbaum Comparative Guide to American Colleges. Davidson for the first time rated Highly Selective in the Cass & Birnbaum selectivity index, equaling the rating of Duke, and one point below UNC — Chapel Hill, which received a “Most Selective” rating, the top of the scale.

The Cass & Birnbaum selectivity index is “a comparative measure of the scholastic potential of the student body, an indication of the hurdles a student will face in applying for admission, and the level of intellectual competition he will face after matriculation.” Davidson’s rating placed it one step below schools such as Amherst and Williams, but above UVa, William and Mary, and Vanderbilt.

Admissions Director John Griffith said that Davidson’s climb up the selectivity scale indicates that the College has a strong and growing reputation, and that he expects the College’s reputation will continue to improve.

The past two years the College has accepted about 680 of 1500 to 1600 applicants. Dr. Griffith said applicants are evaluated according to their academic performance in high school, their academic potential, and their activities and other special characteristics. Last year the average combined SAT scores for the freshman class were 1225; this year they could be 1230, Admissions Counselor Dick Jones ’81 said. Dr. Griffith said the admissions staff and the faculty committee on admissions seek to shape a diverse class from among the academically qualified applicants.

“Minority students comprised three percent of the 1980-81 freshman class, and five percent of this year’s class. Dr. Griffith said that although there are no admissions quotas, “the recruitment of a diverse student body is a priority, so I was encouraged” by the increase in minority representation. He said that by next year the College’s association with the A Better Chance program, regionally headed by Assistant Director of Admissions James (Jimmy) Williams, should result in minority students showing increased interest in the College. This past winter the Trustees passed a resolution that the student body should be composed of from 33 to 40% women, Dr. Griffith said. According to fellow Admissions Counselor Diane Pierce ’81, the 40% figure reflects the current ratio of women to men applying to the College. Until this year, the trustees had directed that no more than 33% of the student body should be female. They enlarged the quota based on recommendations drawn from a study President Spencer asked Dr. Griffith to conduct last summer.

Dr. Griffith said “establishing a male/female ratio is appropriate policy because Davidson is a residential community, and we care about maintaining a demographic mix appropriate to the

Continued on page 5

No New Grading System

The faculty, in their last meeting of the school year Tuesday afternoon, voted not to replace our present grading system with a 4-point numerical scale.

Religion Professor Max Polley explained the rejection of the plan put forward by the Educational Policies Committee: “Probably where it ran into difficulty was in the amount of gradations.”

Originally the E.P.C. had proposed the addition of minuses only to our present scale. Because the minus plan was bound to depress the college’s average GPA, the SGA proposed their own scale, which would leave GPAs nearly the same but which was not linear.

The 4-point scale, invented by Psychology Professor John Kelton, replaced letter grades with numbers from 0.0 to 4.0. A number of students objected to the fine distinctions that Professor Kelton’s plan would provide, fearing that they would mean more grade competition.

“Grades ought not to be central to the educational process. When I went to college it was considered very poor taste to ask what someone got on a test unless they were a very close friend,” Professor Polley remembered, adding that the faculty agreed that the number scale would become “overly complicated for the student.” “I think the majority of the faculty would probably like to have minus grades, but I don’t know if even that would have gone through.”

SGA President Tim Johnston felt relieved at the proposal’s defeat. “I’m very satisfied,” he said, “The whole Senate’s elated.”

Diana Bohrer ‘85