Lafayette Rolls Over Davidson
BY SCOTT HUIE ’85

Same script, same roles. Same outcome. Just a different opponent. Pounding out 484 yards in total offense and racking up 28 third-quarter points, the Leopards of Lafayette (Pa.) rolled to a 49-14 win over Davidson last Saturday.

“We were just flat,” said Coach Ed Farrell. “And it’s hard to understand since we had a super week of practice, our attitude and confidence seemed up especially after a respectable showing against S.C. State, and even the flight up was smooth. We started out fine, moving the ball well. But then their offense just took the wind out of our sails.”

Considering the margin of defeat, the Wildcat offense was not exactly sluggish, either, gaining 293 yards. But poor punt coverage, bad field position, an interception, and two costly fumbles drained the Wildcat arsenal.

“Since they have such a powerful offense,” Farrell said, “our game plan was ball control. We were successful to some extent, but they built up such a huge lead that we had to resort to other strategies.”

Whatever they were, they did not work. Davidson stayed close in the early going, falling behind by only a touchdown in the first quarter. The Leopards, however, racked up two more scores before intermission, one on a 29-yard drive set up by a Keith Martin fumble, and the other on a 33-yard drive.

Then the blitzkrieg struck. On drives of 72, 39, and 60 yards, and on a punt return of 58 yards, the Leopards scored on their first four possessions of the third quarter to put the Cats away. Lafayette’s quarterback, who leads the NCAA Division I-AA in passing, connected on 12 of 25 strikes for 173 yards. The bulk of the damage, however, came on the ground where the Leopards netted 345 yards.

The Wildcats rallied enough to put together two touchdown drives in the waning minutes. Late in the third quarter, Davidson drove 80 yards for the score. Halfback Leonard Walker took a handoff from midfield and busted downfield 49 yards to the Lafayette one. Two plays later Martin plunged over on a sneak. And finally, in the fourth quarter, a Kevin Hutchinson fumble recovery set up a 27-yard TD drive, capped by a one-yard scoring run by halfback David Turner as the clock expired.

Martin completed 7 of 14 passes, four of which found a mammoth tight end, Scotty Brendle. Walker, Turner, and fullback Bob Miller each rushed 11 times, with Walker picking up 88 yards. On defense, senior Chuck Lifford played like a man possessed with seven solo tackles and three assists. Lost to injury for the remainder of the season is halfback Carl Tolbert, whose superb blocking will be sorely missed. His replacement, however, sophomore David Turner, boasts great speed and pass-catching skills, which will add a new dimension to the offense.

Said Farrell, “This was our most disappointing loss to date. Ever since the beginning of the season, the team and the coaches have set a goal to improve with each game. Well, this is the first game where we actually digressed.”

The Cats cannot afford to digress further, as tomorrow they travel to Furman to tackle the all-too-powerful Paladins (5-2), who two weeks ago defeated the University of South Carolina at South Carolina. Last year, they brought their act to Davidson and came away victorious. Furman features an explosive running attack, keyed by 6'1", 195 lb. Stanford Jennings, who Farrell calls a “sprinting bull.” Listen to Farrell rave even more: “They are without a doubt the best team on our schedule. They have all the qualities that make up a winning football program — talent, execution, and emotion. It will be tough. But if Furman can beat South Carolina, by golly,”Davidson can beat Furman.” Huie’s Prediction: Furman 37 — Davidson 7

Cross-country Places
BY GARRY SULLIVAN ’83

Last week, the running Wildcats travelled to Atlanta to participate in the Georgia State Invitational meet. The race was held on the grounds of the Georgia Regional Hospital, partly because of the fine course and partly for obvious precautionary reasons. The boy harriers bounded over the grassy course and into a respectable fifth place team finish. Frank Ivey once again raced superbly, coasting into fifth place with a time of 26:08 for the hilly five-mile route. Bryan Zielinski, the Kierkegaard of cross-country, trailed the speeding Ivey by two minutes and outkicked a hungry Tim Cassell. Jim Trotter and Jack Smith, who had not completely recovered from the varmint attack of several weeks ago, snatched the last two team spots with respective times of 28:37 and 29:15. Finishing times were generally slow due to the difficulty of the two-lap course.

The course for the women’s meet was six thousand meters (3.7 miles), an unusually long distance for the female harriers to traverse. But the Wildcats concluded their season with a fine third-place finish in the Invitational. Jean Webb was head Wildcat harrier, finishing seventh in the race in a time of 24:14. The women ran on an abbreviated version of the challenging hospital course, so times suffered somewhat. Sarah Patterson finished over a minute behind Webb, and solidly outran Tamara Foreman and Chris Seel. Merris Hollingsworth rounded out the female fantastic five. Plans are being finalized for the trip to the National Championships, which will be held in Kenosha, Wisconsin. Team leaders are hoping to hold a fundraising run for the female trip westward. The lady Wildcats qualified for the national meet at a race held several weeks ago in Pembroke, N.C.

PART-TIME EMPLOYEE WANTED to put posters up on-campus now and during 1982-83. 26-40 hours / month. $4.50 / hour. Call Mr. Fenton, (800) 243-4767.

continued from page 16

Behind the plate will be three-year starter Philip (Horse) Gordon. Fighting for the job and filling in as a designated hitter from the left side is Mr. Airborne—Mick Smith. Pitching will again be a question mark for the Wildcats. Senior Bob Barnes developed some consistency as a starter at the end of last year and has continued to improve this year (as evidenced by his 0.00 fall ERA). Hot or cold Doug Wiley and Scott “Sparky” Redding will start from the left side as will Freshmen Matt “Yes, I’m Bigger Than A Davidson Linebacker” Walker and Scott Weaver. The Big Pika, Ed Whitesides, will be expected to go as both starter and a reliever. Out for the first year and looking for a shot at pitching is senior Kevin Attar. David Hutchinson (off a .386 summer) will play the role of utility infielder and freshman Chip Knox is expected to come out after football season and fill in as Jack-of-all-trades for a while. Al Baldwin (easily mistaken for the bespectacled Darrell Porter) can play the outfield and hit for power. Further help is anticipated from football players who are deciding whether or not to trade in the rubber cleats for the steel spikes in the spring. On paper, the 1982-83 baseball team looks young and inexperienced. But then again, you don’t play the game on paper. Baseball fever—catch it in the spring!

Office 892-2000 ext. 149
Home 892-6573

If you want to publicize an event, party, meeting, talk, or just any general occurrence which your club, group, or organization may be conducting, please contact:

THE DAVIDSONIAN Advertising Department
Frank J. Hague IV
Jeffrey W. Danese

THE DAVIDSONIAN/29 October 1982 17