Returnees

Skip Brown, 6-11, 220

As Coach Hussey puts it, “He’s a great team person. He’s provided very good leadership for our underclassmen. Right now
his greatest contribution is going to be as a team leader.”

That’s not all. Skip is one of the most improved players on the court. He’s shooting the jumper with far
greater confidence and consistency and occasionally uses a hook which not too many people in the country could stop. He’s
crashing the offensive boards with a vengeance, and thus has become Davidson’s version of the Enforcer.

John Carroll, 6-2, 177

Once again John Carroll will be the Wildcat floor marshall, and you can count on his steady, aggressive, hustling style
of play. “John probably came back in better condition than anyone else,” Hussey says. “He seemed to be more into
everything. He’s more hungry to be a good player.”

Carroll has always been a fine player, so you can expect him to have an outstanding senior season. He has
led the team in assists the last three years, and you can count on number four. Right now a back
injury is slowing him down, but he’ll be full strength by season’s start.

Brian Rowan, 6-6, 200

Just call Brian Rowan “Sleeper.” If he keeps playing the way he is now, he is the most underrated player
in the Southern Conference, and everyone’s ready for a big surprise. Says Hussey, “He’s playing extremely well at both ends
of the court. From all preseason indications, he’s a step ahead of anyone else at this point.”

Last year Rowan averaged only 6.8 points per game, but as he came into his own at midseason he exploded
to average 11 ppg down the stretch. This year he should score around 12-16 ppg.

Right now he’s slated to start at the number five position, but as the season goes on and the freshmen
are able to fill in there, he’ll play some at the four position.

Cliff Tribus, 6-10, 220

Tribus, with 15.7 ppg and .530 field goal percentage, was All-Conference and third team Academic All-American. As a senior, he’s
much better. “He’s gotten stronger and able to do a few more things than he could last year,” is the
word from Coach Hussey. And, as always, he can shoot. For that reason, they will use him both inside at
the 4-position and occasionally out on the wing at the number three spot.

Tribus, in the running for a Rhodes Scholarship, has at times been below par. “He went through a period early
in the season,” Hussey explains, “when he wasn’t playing as well as he thought he should have been. He’s snapped
out of it.” Expect Tribus to lock in the sonar and be even more exciting than he has in the
past.

Richard Wilson, 6-6, 205

“Richard has been a really pleasant surprise,” exclaims Coach Hussey. “He might have played a little more basketball in the
offseason than the year before.”

Defensively Wilson is already doing a good job, as one might expect. It was his steal in the waning seconds
that preserved the 52-51 win over South Carolina. So far he has been playing a lot of point guard, but
he can play the two-guard position as well.

Tom Franz, 6-5, 170

No doubt about it, Tom Franz is playing far better than ever. “He’s playing exceptionally well,” lauds Hussey. “He’s got
great court savvy and really knows the game.

“As a general rule, whichever team he’s playing for is playing well.” Franz has taken charge when things for his
shell team were falling apart, and has become quite a traffic cop on the court.

Hard work over the summer is paying off for Franz, whose physical abilities are finally catching up to where his
mental skills have long been. Franz will see a lot of action at the 2-guard spot.

Kenny Wilson, 6-5, 215

Hold on folks, and enjoy the ride—“Cadillac” Wilson is back in full stride!

KW fans can expect the same sort of thrill-a-minute, rollicking, intense action from Kenny Wilson, but with one hitch—he’s better.
Coach Hussey explains, “He’s a little more under control. He’s learned a few more of the finer points of the
game.”

Wilson, with 14.4 ppg and about 5 rpg, earned Honorable Mention All-Conference honors last year as a sophomore. He earned
a Conference-wide reputation as a strong, hustling player who never quits. This year he’s a little lighter and a little
quicker, which prompts Hussey to say, “He’s a physical specimen if there’s ever been one.” He’ll play the number three
spot.

Frank Johnson, 6-3, 172

After sitting out for a year as a transfer from Belmont Abbey, Daddy J. is ready to leap into Division
I action.

He is undoubtedly a fine leaper and shooter, but he has had to work on some aspects of his game
as well. According to Hussey, “Frank has made a lot of improvement from last year up to the beginning of
this year. He’s added weight and matured mentally and physically. He really wants to play. If he could consistently play
with a lot of intensity, he’d be set.”

Johnson, a sophomore eligibility-wise but an academic junior, is versatile (he will probably play two guard but can play the
three spot), and has the longest time playing under Coach Hussey. Captain Sky’s exceptional leaping ability will definitely render him
a zone breaker.

DAVIDSONIAN/1982-83
