Education in Kenya

As in many Third World nations, Kenya has pinned a lot of hopes on education as the key to development.
Over 60% of the national budget is devoted to education, and the student population has gone from about 300,000 in
1970 to over 5 million today. There is an enormous investment of manpower, construction, planning, and study going to meet
the heavy demand for learning in the population. Not only traditional schools, but adult literacy classes, nurseries, technical training, and
trade courses are booming. With the population increasing at over 4% annually and 80% of the population under the age
of 20, huge expenditures are needed just to keep from falling behind.

At independence, there were four schools in the country where Africans could receive a complete secondary education (up to 12th
grade). Most never went beyond primary school (6th grade) because the colonial government discouraged educating Africans. Thus, few people over
35 have much education, including the President of the country who completed Form II (8th grade). At independence, people were
clamoring for education, and since that time the nation has struggled to meet the demand.

The educational system in Kenya still closely follows the British pattern, emulating one of the most exclusionary of Western programs.
National examinations at various levels prevent large numbers of students from continuing their education. In addition, there is a great
shortage of schools and trained teachers in the country, even for the relatively small number who manage to pass the
examinations. Education is further limited by high school fees, especially beginning at the secondary level (approximately 7th grade in the
USA). Primary education was taken over by the government and made nominally free in 1974, although many schools continue to
charge “building funds,” “parents association dues,” and require students to buy their own uniforms and various other equipment. Some areas
continue to resist education while in others, especially large towns, there is a scramble for available spaces. Primary students come
in all ages, with some leaving standard 7 at age 22, others at age 12.

Secondary school fees are generally $200-$300 per year in a country where the annual per capita income is around $250.
Government schools tend to be more, not less expensive at the secondary level. Examinations and school fees account for the
high incidence of ulcers among the very young. The students face national examinations which can determine their future at standard
VII (6th grade), Form II (8th grade), Form IV (10th grade), and Form VI (12th grade). At every step, well
over half the examined students are eliminated. In 1980, 11 percent of those students who took the Kenya Junior Secondary
Examination (Form II) passed. Those who fail examinations desperately scramble for any chance of further training or education and are
usually disappointed.

The whole educational system is geared to passing certain examinations to earn the certificate that unlocks the doors to success.
Any deviation from the set syllabus is thus a waste of precious time and a disservice to anxious students. Of
course, this is a very frustrating system for an American teacher used to extremely broad educational freedom. The burden of
school fees and expelling those who cannot pay is also particularly painful, along with turning away so many eager students
who are below a certain standard on the examinations. However, we must work and do our best with the system
we find, trying to influence change as best we can.

There is still a great need for expatriate help at the secondary level—especially at the smaller, newer, and poorer schools
where well-qualified Kenyans refuse to work. With only one university in the country, it is easy to see why there
are so very few secondary teachers with even a B.A., while in the U.S. nearly all states demand a master's
degree for any serious teaching position at the secondary level, and increasingly at primary schools. Also, the narrow scope of
a Kenyan education which demands specialization in 3 to 4 subjects by Form V (11th grade) further undermines the flexibility
and experience of Kenyan teachers.

At least, recently, the Kenyan Ministry of Education has been making an effort to weed out the British syllabus and
develop one sensible for Africa. It was not until last year that Shakespeare left the literature syllabus—in a country where
English is a third language and knowledge of 16th century England nearly non-existent! The schools of Kenya, poorly equipped, inadequately
staffed, and full of post-colonial anachronisms, continue to struggle to educate the 21st-century leaders of this small Third World nation.
We help where we can.

Andy Miller ’80

Continued from page 8

...of time, we didn’t cover as many of the possibilities with the lottery system as we would like to. Another
thing is dealing with athletics. The physical education requirements need to be reviewed and a policy should be drawn up
and carried out. Whether that is to reorganize the Physical Ed. department or to have each...A student required to finish
all his P.E. requirements by the end of his junior year is a possibility. The issue of the Noise Ordinance
will definitely come up this spring. Readings will be taken and a town ordinance will be passed. It is the
responsibility of the SGA to ensure that these noise levels are both fair to the town, but, more importantly, really
fair to the students. Our social life at Davidson is pretty much a minimal thing anyway, and anything that damages
that would need to be reckoned with.

D—How would you change the SGA overall, and how would you change the area you know best?

H—I would push for standing committee meetings to have a meeting once a week. I don’t think that’s asking too
much of an elected official. I would also, possibly, push cutting down the required membership. Right now, each SGA member
is required to serve on two committees, but I would like to see a person required to stress one committee
and be required to attend their weekly meetings, and also be welcome to be on any other committees. I think
that by requiring attendance the committees would find that they can get a lot more done.

J—Not only should the committee members be required to attend meetings and committees be required to meet once a week,
but also every member of the Senate will be required to meet with the President of the SGA and inform
him as to what he has been doing in his committee and outside of it. Basically a touch-in, simply because
I feel that we have had a maximum of 50 percent of the SGA really doing anything in their committees.
Even though it has improved in the last couple of years, I think that the SGA can take a much
stronger role, and the only way it is going to do it is if it gets work from everybody inside
it.

D—What issue would you be willing to stick your neck out for?

J—Taking, for example, the semester-trimester system. Once the student government and the President of the SGA come to an agreement
as to just what is going to be best for the students, and that is who we represent, then it
is going to be my job to stick out. Any issue which comes to the forefront and which the President
needs to act on, I would definitely stick my neck out for. That could be anything you want to talk
about. No matter what the issue, it is going to be investigated, and whatever I see as being best for
the situation and for the people I represent, and whatever the committee and the SGA feels to be the best
thing to do, my neck will be stuck out. Anything that comes up in the future needs the President’s strength.

H—I agree, I think that’s his job. Specifically, I see curriculum, noise ordinance, physical education policy, and job placement policy.
The SGA President should not only be able to stick his neck out, but should be willing to do so.
Those things come periodically as problems arise.

J—One good thing about having only one term in office is that you don’t have to worry about some people
getting mad at you for sticking your neck out.

D—I've been struck by the admirable spirit of cooperation between the two of you. Why you rather than the other
guy?

H—I don’t think this race is going to produce a loser as much as a winner. I don’t think there
will be a feeling of defeat on the part of the loser as much as real admiration and support for
the winner. As far as why me over Tim, this is for the students to decide whom in their minds
would produce the type of leadership they want. I think it will be more of a personality-type approach rather than
an issue-orientated one. We are pushing for the same type of things, and will be supporting each other in the
next year. The style of leadership they want is something they have to look for.

J—I feel the same way as Chip does. I feel I am the kind of person who can execute this
job well, and I think Chip is too. That’s why I hate to run against Chip, and I’m also glad
I’m running against him. I have to run against him because we’re good friends and we've worked together for the
past three years. I feel like we can both do one heck of a job, partly because we’re capable, and
also because we're going to have each other’s input.

H—I feel confident in the fact that if I lose, the SGA will be in good hands. That is why
we're going into this campaign super-enthusiastic because we are going to have a lot of fun meeting a lot of
new students and enjoying each other’s friendship along the way. I think it will be a very good and sincere
contest.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982 17
