Faculty to Vote on EPC Grade Proposal

Student opinion has been strong and varied concerning the Educational Policies Committee’s proposed new 4-point grading scale, which the faculty will vote on this Monday.

“Davidson students spend more than enough time thinking about grades. Why spend any more time thinking about something that doesn’t make any difference?” asked senior John Hartman.

Many students fear that the reporting of course grades as numbers between 0.0 and 4.0 would increase competition and grade-consciousness by multiplying the number of possible grades. Instead of letters (A, B plus, B, etc.), one could receive a 3.7 or a 2.9, for example. “This is just going to make people more wrapped up in their grades,” freshman Mike Tantillo warned. Sophomore Sally Hughes reflected, “The fewer divisions the better.”

Not everyone is opposed to the change, however; some students see the finer distinctions between grades as an advantage. As sophomore Mike Blake explained, with numerical grades “it’s a little easier to bring up a low GPA.” Another sophomore, Charles Wiley, predicted, “It could increase competition, but I don’t think it will.”

Others think numerical grades are more fair than letter grades but would rather not change systems midstream. Junior Dean Withrow suggested that the class of ’86 be graded on the proposed scale while those of us here now continue using the letter grade scale. “I guess I’m just used to it,” sophomore Andy Leeper said.

Psychology Professor John Kelton, who devised the EPC’s plan, denies that replacing letters with numbers could aggravate “grade-grubbing.” Because the proposed scale would eliminate the 1.0 point difference between a high D and a low C, for instance, he maintains that it would have “just the opposite” effect. The difference between a 1.7 and a 2.0 is less severe than between a 1.0 and a 2.0.

Although he considers the plan “a very fair and adequate way” of allowing professors more flexible grading, Professor Kelton says the confusion in so many students’ minds is understandable. “They’re not sure what it means. I don’t blame people for that.”

The possibility of a new grading scale has caused a number of students to question the importance of grades to education. When asked “What would happen if we had no grades at all?” most people laughed and said, “Nobody would study.” John Hartman was more specific: “People who wanted to study would. People who didn’t wouldn’t.” Freshman Wilson Lowrey agreed: “You’d have to take another type of student into Davidson College if you did that. It wouldn’t work with this group of students.”

Mike Tantillo felt that it might be wise to report all freshmen’s grades as Pass or Fail as some other rather competitive schools do, but he called abolishing all grades “too much of an extreme.” Tim Whalen, a senior, felt that, “Any grading system can be fair if the person administering it is fair.”

The EPC’s proposal will come into effect in the fall if the faculty votes to accept it.it in Monday’s meeting, the last of the year. Talk to your professors if you have any suggestions or questions before they make their decision.
Diana Bohrer ‘85

Numerical Grade-Point Label Point Scale
~ 4.0 (used by some)
EXCELLENT 4.0 A 3.8 90+ 3.7 89 3.6 88 3.5 VERY GOOD 3.5 B+ 87 3.4 86 3.3 85 3.2 84 3.1 83 3.0 GOOD 3.0 B 82 2.9 81 2.8 80 2.7 79 2.6 VERY SATISFACTORY 2.5 C+ 78 2.4 77 2.3 76 2.2 75 2.1 74 2.0 SATISFACTORY 2.0 C 72 1.9 71 1.8 70 1.7 69 1.6 68 1.5 67 1.4 66 1.3 POOR 1.0 D 65 1.2 64 1.1 63 1.0 62 0.9 61 0.8 60 FAILING 0 F

Noise Levels Continued from page 1

Mayor MacCormac announced that objections to the ordinance should be brought up at the 7:30 p.m. open town meeting. “If concerns show us that we need to re-study the ordinance, we will not pass it,” MacCormac said. The noise ordinance would restrict off-campus parties more than on-campus parties, says Ford, because their noise readings would be taken closer to the source.

Ford says the Davidson police have been taking noise level readings since mid-March. They measured the 900 Room's output at 60 db from Concord Road and Patterson Court parties below 70 db from the edge of campus. A Fiji band party registered 80 db at the property line, however. The Davidson police also measured the noise level inside the party at 100 db, says Ford.

“I think it’s too bad that it (the noise controversy) had to come down to an ordinance,” said Fiji President David Shoemaker. “We will try to be more careful and work within it as well as possible.”

SPE President Frank Clark does not foresee any problems with the ordinance. “I don’t see how it will affect our fraternity much at all,” says Clark. “But I do think it will give the townspeople a little peace of mind,” he added.

The SPE’s have been working to have better relations with the community ever since their Chairmen of the Board party triggered objections from neighbors. After the loud party, thirty local residents signed and submitted a petition calling for noise regulation. At first, the town chose to turn the matter over to the college, but then decided to interfere. The Police Committee recommended that Davidson adopt a noise ordinance. The town formed the Noise Study Committee to draft a proposal. The committee includes student representative Joe Ford, Dean of Students Will Terry, two members of the Town Board, two members of the Police Committee, and two Davidson citizens. The Committee has also invited Shoemaker and Clark to attend their last three meetings.

David Resnik ‘85
DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 April 1982