New Aid Cut Proposals

Congressmen and senators have proposed a variety of alternative federal student aid budgets in the last few weeks, all of which are more generous than President Ronald Reagan’s aid proposals unveiled in early February. Some officials now predict the Reagan proposals will be defeated. Several committees have already taken some action, and though few seem ready to express their will before April, more alternative aid budgets are expected.

“Lordy, lordy,” jokes Jan Lilja, education analyst with the Senate Budget Committee, “there'll probably be a lot more alternatives. (Proposing aid budgets) seems to be the latest fad in town.”

“There are seven new ones every day,” deadpans a Democratic Senate budget analyst. In the Senate, the analyst expects the flow of alternative proposals to slow as soon as “the Republican leadership comes close to a consensus.” He expects that to happen by April, and has “reason to think they'll reject the president’s proposal.”

In the House, the Education-Labor Committee has already approved a student aid budget that increases funding for all the major programs, including the two President Reagan wants to abolish altogether. The committee, however, traditionally is more liberal in its funding than the Ways and Means Committee, which will weigh the proposals before passing them on to the full House for a vote.

The House recommendations are just one of five 1983 fiscal year budgets now before Congress. Besides President Reagan’s budget, which proposes to end various aid programs, dramatically limit eligibility for others, and cut funding for the remaining ones by as much as 20 percent, Congress will soon debate aid proposals from the House Education-Labor Committee, from Sen. Pete Domenici (R-N.M.), Sen. Ernest Hollings (D-S.C.), and one written by senators Claiborne Pell (D-R.I.) and Robert Stafford (R-V.T.).

The Domenici budget would freeze aid programs at 1982 levels. Otherwise, it differs most from the proposals in its vision of the Guaranteed Student Loan (GSL) program; Domenici would make families with incomes over $40,000 a year ineligible for GSLs, and require families with gross incomes between $25,000 – $40,000 to demonstrate need. President Reagan would require all families with incomes over $14,000 to show need. Domenici would also keep the in-school interest subsidy the president wants to abolish, but would require students to pay it back to the government after leaving school.

All the alternative budgets, as opposed to the Reagan proposal, would include grad students in the GSL program. The Hollings budget, according to a Hollings aide, would “continue current funding levels. Period. No changes in the program at all, except to allow for inflation.” Hollings would allow a 7.4 percent increase in spending for Pell Grants, Supplemental Education Opportunity Grants (SEOGs), College Work-Study, State Student Incentive Grants (SSIGs), and National Direct Student Loans (NDSLs).

The Pell-Stafford proposal asks for $7.9 billion for student aid in 1983, compared to the $4.28 billion President Reagan wants to spend. The government is authorized to spend some $5.9 billion in the 1982 fiscal year which stretches from Oct. 1, 1981 through September 30, 1982. Sen. Stafford himself figures Congress will ultimately decide to fund the programs for 1983 at about the same level as 1982. “The majority view in the Senate as I left D.C.," Stafford said at the American Association of School Administrators in New Orleans in early March, "was that domestic programs cut heavily in fiscal 1982 ought to be level-funded through fiscal 1983." The student aid budget in fiscal 1981 was $6.38 billion.

David Resnik and CPS Careers Office Lacking Funds, Staff

A recent survey of college placement programs confirmed widespread claims that the Davidson Careers Office is underbudgeted and understaffed. "In comparison to other institutions, we are definitely underfunded and understaffed," said Career Office Director Ken Woods. According to the survey, Davidson’s Career Office receives less funding than placement programs at colleges of similar size. The operating budget of Hamilton College’s placement program is $18,000 a year, Carleton’s is $13,000, Colby’s is $20,000, Williams’s is $20,000, and Davidson’s is a mere $4,800 a year. The survey also showed that Williams’s placement program has five staff members, Carleton has three, Hamilton has two-and-a-half, Colby has one, and Davidson has only one staff member.

Mr. Woods said he would recommend an increase in the Career Office’s budget and staff as long as it did not result in “an unrealistic heightening of expectations as far as job placement.” According to Mr. Woods, the demand for career placement is rising at Davidson College. In 1974, 25% of Davidson students pursued employment after graduation. Mr. Woods estimates that 40 to 45% of this year’s seniors will choose career placement over graduate school.

Newly elected SGA President Tim Johnston also feels that the demand for career placement is rising on campus. “I brought the issue (career placement) up when I was campaigning,” said Johnston, “and the reaction was always the same. People would say, ‘I am worried about my prospects of finding a job at Davidson. Anything the SGA can do would be fantastic.’” Both Johnston and Woods blame the increasing demand for job placement on the economic difficulties that students face today. Students who can’t afford graduate school are looking for work instead, and even some of those who can afford it are looking for immediate financial security. Johnston feels that career placement will be “one of the SGA’s major issues next year in terms of priority.” He would like to see an additional staff member at the Careers Office who is “geared toward relations with students and corporate representatives and who can devote time to maintaining interest in the job placement program.”

Chairman Stuart Dorsett also advocates creating a new position at the Careers Office. “I think we need one person whose sole concern is corporate recruitment,” said Dorsett, “Ken [Woods] is really swamped; I think he’s doing the best job he can, but he doesn’t have the corporate temperament.” According to Mr. Woods, corporate recruitment is important, but it is not the only function of the Careers Office. He tries to help students as much as possible but thinks it is “up to you to go out there and find your own job.” Mr. Woods cites career exploration (i.e., extern programs, field surveys, and life/work planning) and experiential learning (internships) as two other basic supportive services of Davidson’s placement program.

— David Resnik, ’85
DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982