| A Reply to Van Beck: Were I not frustrated in my desire to read a balanced campus newspaper where
caustic, ideological pens at least support their arguments with undistorted evidence, reflection, and real insight, I might stay out of
the fray. However, last week’s opinions column by Van Beck on the Salvadoran elections relied in part on such distortions,
inaccuracies, and fallacious argument. As a member of the Davidson Coalition on El Salvador (though I do not speak for
the Coalition), I would like to respond to some of Beck’s inaccurate and illogical allegations about the group, and examine
more closely some issues Beck raises about the Salvadoran crisis itself.

Beck criticizes the American left and U.S. “pressure groups,” such as the Coalition, as irresponsible and politically idealistic for rejecting
the elections and not “supporting” Duarte and the Christian Democrats, which he claims contributed somehow to the success of rightists
in the election. Unfortunately, what Beck’s argument amounts to is criticism of U.S. “pressure groups” for not voting for Duarte
in the El Salvador elections. Rather more unfortunate is that we weren’t invited to vote in the El Salvador elections
at all. Frankly, it seems a little silly to blame Americans who didn’t vote in El Salvador’s elections for the
election results. I can’t quite see how our “support” would’ve made any difference except on the U.S. domestic political scene.
Duarte was obviously the choice of the Reagan Administration, which has far more influence in El Salvador than the Coalition,
and their hopes that Duarte would get a clear mandate and gain political leverage were clearly voiced. Short of sending
Haig to a Salvadoran polling booth, there wasn’t much more the Administration could have done to support Duarte (assuming CIA
coups and fraud were out of the question). I suppose the Coalition could have lent moral support, but I imagine
the Salvadoran peasants don’t read the New York Times or the Washington Post, and it really isn’t possible to send
telegrams to the “Salvadoran Voters At Large.”

Beck attempts to equate current U.S. policy on El Salvador with the American left. In the case of the Coalition
(and many religious and peace groups involved in El Salvador protests), this is just inaccurate. Contrary to Beck’s statement, the
Coalition never said it supports or would support “a candidate left of center not tainted by a Marxist-Leninist label.” Deis
was the candidate supported by the outlawed Salvadoran Communist Party (PCS) in 1972, and is thus presumably “tainted” by Marxist-Leninism,
the Coalition does not oppose Duarte or his party. The Coalition merely questioned whether Duarte could hold onto enough power
in the pre-election junta dominated by the rightist military to implement any real reforms.

What the Coalition did oppose were the elections themselves. First of all, elections seem unrealistic (if not preposterous) during a
civil war, where there is widespread fear of violence and repression from both sides and leftists are virtually assured of
assassination if they dare to campaign. I would like to see Van Beck vote during a civil war where conservative
candidates are threatened with death if they campaign, voting is compulsory, and conservative sympathizers are routinely found tortured and killed,
while first conservative guerillas and then liberal soldiers take over his hometown. Even without a trace of fraud, I doubt
he would consider the elections a viable means to a “realistic political solution.”

Though we opposed the elections, the Coalition did not ignore them as Beck claims; quite the contrary, we participated with
23,000 others in a Washington, D.C. rally to protest U.S. policy on El Salvador and dispute the validity of the
elections scheduled.the next day. Furthermore, although the Coalition considered elections now a very unrealistic means to a political solution, they
were not “written off as meaningless.” Even if they are not valid indicators of the will of the Salvadoran people,
they mean something—the difficulty lies in determining what. What did the vote really mean? Do most Salvadorans really want a
rightist government, or favor D’Aubisson’s “scorched earth” policy? If not, why did they vote the way they did? Several possible
explanations for the way the vote went come to mind: fear of repression, undetected intimidation; a desire for peace and
security at any cost, accompanied by a perception that the right is most able to stop the crossfire if not
the violence; the charisma of D’Aubisson; a desire to vote for something different, instead of incumbent Duarte’s party; a desire
to vote for something, as opposed to nothing—voting a blank ballot or not voting at all as guerrillas asked; or
maybe just anger at the guerrilla bullets whizzing by that day. A final reason might be that, considering El Salvador’s
history of fraud, Salvadorans felt the right was bound to win or later stage a coup if they didn’t, so
why not “go with the flow” and at least not make enemies with one group. Quite honestly, I don’t think
anyone knows what the real reasons are. Even a high voter turnout doesn’t always indicate much, and in this case,
voting was mandatory anyway. For example, the Vietnamese elections had a record turnout of 81 percent, but then went right
back to work supporting the guerrillas (Central American Information Office, El Salvador 1982: Elections Without Choice, March 1982).

Given the problems of sorting out “facts” from propaganda, and of getting reliable facts during a civil war in the
first place, it is critical to examine the complexities of El Salvador’s present mess with reflection, not merely ideology. El
Salvador is a real problem, not merely an occasion for scoring points against one’s ideological opponents.

... it seems a little silly to blame Americans who didn’t vote in El Salvador’s election for the results ...

The Coalition is trying to approach the El Salvador issue with this effectiveness. It was formed with three purposes: first,
to provide information, including different interpretations of the crisis; second, to focus attention on the issue and promote discussion; and
third, to offer opportunities for people to act and express their concern to U.S. policymakers and the public. The initial
response from the Davidson community was that though people were interested in the issue, many felt they didn’t know enough
about El Salvador to understand the crisis and intelligently evaluate U.S. policy. That this lack of informedness is a national
problem is indicated by the recent Newsweek poll which states that out of 755 adults interviewed by phone, only 411
knew which side the U.S. was backing (March 1, 1982, p. 19).

Compounding these problems, the media and the current administration have reinforced two myths that distort the current crisis: the myth
that El Salvador is merely a proxy war between superpowers, and the myth that the Salvadoran crisis is a peasant
revolution springing from the masses. The myth of El Salvador as merely an arena for East-West confrontation is a theme
increasingly pushed by the Reagan administration, at times to their embarrassment. According to this myth, the current struggle in El
Salvador is just another example of aggression between the U.S. and the Soviet Union. Painting El Salvador this way completely
ignores the historical roots of the struggle, dismisses the internal dynamics, and masks the basic need for fundamental and lasting
changes in the political, social, and economic structure of Salvadoran society. Whether Cubans, French, or Laplanders...

(continued on page 10)
