Alfred Descenclos’ “Quatuor.”

The Southern Quartet was formed in the fall of 1981 to perform fine saxophone literature. Besides a repertoire of existing works, the Quartet commissions and transcribes new works. Quartet members are Kenneth M. Fischer, assistant professor of saxophone at the University of Georgia School of Music; Robert Haley, a student under Fischer; Christopher T. Kelton, a doctoral candidate at Indiana University; and Frank Folds, band director at Jackson High School in Jackson, Ga.

Poetry Workshop Here

By SUZANNE DICKEY ’84

Two North Carolina poets, Kate Blackburn and Robert Grey, editor of the Southern Poetry Review, visited Davidson this week to participate in a poetry workshop and to present their poems in a reading sponsored by the Union Literary Arts Committee.

The format of the workshops brought Ms. Blackburn and Mr. Grey together with students and faculty to examine specific poems written by students and submitted to Blackburn and Grey several days beforehand. The poems were critiqued and handed back at the session, then there was a group discussion and criticism. Most students found the discussion helpful, and for many, it was the first time they had work critiqued by notable poets.

The reading took place at 8 p.m. in the Union. Robert Grey read his selected poems first. He began with several poems concerning the theme of Halloween, and then read several poems whose themes came from common objects that were associated with an event or feeling, objects such as radiators and bicycles.

Kate Blackburn, who will have several poems published in the volume Four North Carolina Women Poets that will be printed in December, followed with her poetry which concerned mythological themes.

Pastor-in-Residence Visits

By DAVID RESNIK ’85

Dr. Herbert Meza ’49, one of the outstanding pastors in the United States Presbyterian Church, visited Davidson on 18-20 October.

Meza preached at the Student Worship Service on 20 October at 7:00 p.m. and held informal conversations during his stay.

Meza has been a missionary, seminary professor, pastor, and author. He founded St. Luke’s Clinic and taught Bible at the Protestant Seminary as a missionary in Lisbon, Portugal.

He has been a pastor in Texas, Washington, D.C., and currently in Florida. Meza has also been a professor of Homiletics at Wesley Seminary in Washington, D.C.

Meza has written several books and many articles, and he was a columnist for The Texas City Newspaper for three years.

Meza’s visit was made possible by the “Pastor in Residence” program, which is sponsored by the Staley Distinguished Christian Scholar fund.

Fraternities Report Declining Memberships

CPS—After nearly a decade of steadily increasing memberships, fraternities at a number of colleges around the country are reporting a disappointing drop in the number of new pledges last spring and this fall.

Greek membership nationwide is still up over the low levels of the late sixties and early seventies, assures Jack Anson, executive director of the National Interfraternity Council.

Membership figures for this year won’t be available until the spring, but if the situations at colleges as diverse as Wesleyan, Loyola-New Orleans, and the University of Nebraska are any indication, there are soft spots in Greek recruiting.

“We sure hope it’s not (heading downward),” Anson says, “but you never know. In 1965, the average size of a fraternity chapter was 50 members. But in the early seventies, it had dropped to a low of 34. For about the last ten years, it’s been increasing again, and now we're back to an average of 50 members per chapter.”

But on individual campuses, some chapters are worrying their growth period may be ending.

“We've seen kind of an up-and-down period the last few years,” says Martin Cunniff, president of the Interfraternity Council at Loyola-New Orleans. “In 1979-80, membership really went up. Then it dipped a bit last year.”

Cunniff says only 12 people showed up at rush this fall.

At Wesleyan University, Greek leaders are blaming a low rush turnout on increased academic competition.

“Freshmen are inundated” with school work, says Chuck Wyatt, president of Wesleyan’s Psi Upsilon. He believes many students have delayed pledging until they get control of their studies.

Some of the other Wesleyan fraternities have also noted drops in the numbers of pledges this fall. In response, some plan stepped-up publicity efforts and second-semester rushes this spring.

Rides Committee at Work

The rides committee is offering its services to Davidson students again this year. The committee has two main functions: to operate the rides board and to arrange trips to the airport for students before each break.

The rides board is located on the wall by the Union desk. The board gives students the opportunity to advertise for both rides and riders. Different colored cards separate the wanted rides from the wanted riders. These cards are placed on the board according to states and regions.

Rides to the airport are available at the end of each term and before Christmas break. People who need rides and people who can drive can sign up in Chambers Lobby from Nov. 1 to Nov. 7.

News Shorts

Eric Christensen, candidate

College Press Service

THE DAVIDSONIAN/29 October 1982