SPECIAL BASKETBALL PREVIEW

The Year of the Cat

Wildcat Fans, Brace Yourselves for What May Be the Best Davidson Basketball Team in a Decade

Grinning a Cheshire grin, Bobby Hussey, steadily rap-tap-tapping his finger on the bench, reclined in the bleachers high above his team. Slowly chewing a piece of gum, he just watched and smiled. He was smiling because fifteen feet below him practiced part of a dream. After ten years of toiling in the drudgery of low-budget, NAIA basketball, he was on his way. He was smiling because fifteen feet below him were the seven players with which he makes his mark on Davidson history. His seven recruits—the ones he had chosen specifically for his program, were at last in uniform. He was smiling because he had already etched his name into Davidson history last year, and his ambitions were even greater for the upcoming season. He was smiling because he had accomplished what no one thought possible. And he was smiling because he is going to do it again.

Last year Bobby Hussey performed something not too far short of a miracle. He had two returning starters, a handful of returning benchwarmers, and a host of walk-ons. Predictions said they’d be lucky to go 5-22 and place seventh in the Southern Conference. He ignored the doubters; he cautioned the believers. When all was said and done, he had engineered one of the most astounding feats in NCAA basketball last year. Consider these statistics:

1. Their 14 wins were the most by a Davidson team since 1974.
2. They gained the SC Tournament semifinals for the first time since 1974.
3. They gained the finals for the first time since 1973.
4. They finished third in the regular season whereas predictions figured them around seventh.

He also improved the individual players. He turned two former benchwarmers into All-Conference caliber players:

1. Cliff Tribus was first team All-Conference, third team Academic All-American, MVP in the Iron Duke Classic, and on the All-Tournament team of the First Union Classic.
2. Kenny Wilson was Honorable Mention All-Conference and named to the All-Iron Duke team.

Hussey closed the gaps in a defense often riddled to shreds by opponents. By stressing sound defensive fundamentals he produced a team with outstanding defensive credentials:

1. Opponents’ field goal percentage (.458) was the lowest since 1970.
2. Davidson’s defensive average (63.8) was the lowest in more than a decade.
3. Davidson was the only team in the Conference to hold its Conference opponents to fewer than 1,000 points.

Bobby Hussey is ready to guide the Wildcats to their first winning season since 1974. Somehow he managed to do all that with virtually no talent on the bench and by playing five 35-38 minutes per game. This year, however, he has the luxury of a well-stocked albeit young bench, and that should add a completely new dimension to his game.

Right now the question on everyone’s mind is, “How much will the freshmen help this year?” Bobby Hussey replies, “Right now we’re stressing patience. They must learn to contribute without a lot of playing time.” The next question is if they can’t help this year, how good are they? They’re very good. Coach Hussey says that was indicated by how hard they worked in the preseason. “They’re the type of guys with the kind of talent levels that they have to give you all they’ve got to be great players,” he explains. “They’re willing. I was impressed with that.” Unless one or two of them...is pressed into action because of injury to a starter, you probably won’t see a whole lot of them until late December or January. Gradually they will fill their roles and learn to play intensely enough to play college basketball. 

So much for the freshmen—the returnees are the strength of the team. There are eight returning players, four of whom started last year. They were good last year. They’re better this year. John Carroll will return at point guard, the number one spot. He’s handled the chores for three years now and is raring to go more this year than ever. Behind JC is Richard Wilson, an experienced veteran touted for his defensive talents. Between them, the ball is in capable hands. 

Tom Franz and Frank Johnson, who transferred from Belmont Abbey with Coach Hussey, are at present battling it out for the two guard, or shooting guard, spot. Each has his special talents to offer. Franz, a junior, has put it all together and is doing an outstanding job. He is Davidson’s savoir-faire expert and directs traffic as well as a Chicago traffic cop. Daddy J is known for his aerial acrobatics and will definitely be a zone breaker. 

The forecourt trio is an arsenal of talent with an astounding array of weapons. At the number three wing position is Kenny Wilson. His jumper is better than ever, and he’s always been one to take the ball to the hoop even if a brick wall is between him and the basket. His ball-handling skills have improved tremendously, so he can even play some at the two spot. Everyone knows about Cliff Tribus’ dare-me-to-miss jump shot, and he’s shooting as well as ever this year. He’s also gotten stronger, as he will need to fill some of the gap left by Jamie Hall, the four-year mainstay of the defense. Tribus is also driving to the hoop more often and with more authority. He could easily have a 20 ppg-MVP season this year. 

At the number five spot is Brian Rowan, my pick for Sleeper of the Year in the Southern Conference. Right now he’s probably playing better overall basketball than anyone else on the team. He’s playing well consistently. His passing game is superb, his defense airtight, and his perimeter shooting vastly improved. He will be a key factor. 

All these guys have a year of Bobby Hussey under their belts, and that alone should give them an edge over most of the Conference. The only real contender beside Davidson should be UT-C, the two-time defending champs. I figure the Mocs will be there once again, nip Davidson for the regular season title, but I pick Davidson to win the tournament for the first time since 1970. That’s right—NCAAs, here we come! 

The offense will run much the same as last year. They’ve changed the secondary break offense and made a few other adjustments to compensate for some of last year’s weaknesses. “We’re trying to do things to get the guards and the wings more involved,” says Hussey. The basic idea is to keep the defense from collapsing in on the lane so effectively. “We'll play about the same pace game,” he continues. “We want to dictate our tempo.” The tempo will, of course, depend largely on the opponent. “The good teams are the ones that adjust or adapt,” Hussey says. Surely the schedule demands extreme versatility and adaptability. 

“It will be very hard for us to improve Continued on back 

DAVIDSONIAN/1982-83 BASKETBALL PREVIEW 13