MOTHER’S DAY SALE

25% to 60% savings on famous brands sportswear:

Anne Klein
SG. Hook’s
Nells Flower
Eagle’s Eye
Cole of California
Lanz Sundresses
Delaw
Dippers
Deweese
Sasson

Additional 10% discount for students

Hours: 9:30-6:00 daily

Historical Docu-drama or Hollywood Fun’n Games

The major spring drama of Davidson College was the world premiere run of performances of Ralegh!, a two-act play by Davidson alumnus James Pendleton. The support and preparation for the production seemed to befit the idea of a “world premiere,” at least as compared with most college theatre. The production received grants from the Charlotte Arts and Science Council and the Grassroots Arts program of the N.C. Arts Council, the costuming was elaborate and meticulously designed to fit the play’s setting, the help of various alumni was enlisted for specific technical duties, and I sensed a certain seriousness or extra awareness of the public eye that I had not sensed in previous productions. Carefully prepared posters were posted, the play was publicized beyond Davidson, and the show ran for three nights in Hodson Hall. It then moved to Spirit Square in Charlotte for last weekend's performances.

I saw the April 25th performance in Hodson Hall, and I have to wonder if the extra preparation I sensed was for the play or for the premiere. What I mean, and what is my most outstanding reaction, is that I think the trappings of an uncommonly major dramatic production were there, but that the play itself did not give very much to dramatize. A show was premiered, but did it have any life after that in the thoughts of the people who saw it? My thoughts were a form of the question: Did I miss something? The performance hinted that it was more than a case presented, a sentence meted out to a man, and case closed.

I'll start on that level. Ralegh! is about Sir Walter Raleigh. The method is to perform his trial in 1618, and by the use of flashbacks performed on stage it lets us see the people and the events, or the discussion of them, which caused Raleigh to be tried. In showing those flashbacks, we learn that his guilt or innocence does not merely depend on tallying the events. There is the love, duty, public image triangle of Queen Elizabeth, Raleigh, and Bess Throckmorton; the six million pound dowry for the marriage of King James’ son and the daughter of the King of Spain; and Raleigh's own imposing personality. There is the divine right of royalty, the realm of poetry—the factors pertinent to the trial quickly became nebulous and unclean. To bring it back to where I began, the performance I saw was encouraging. Roy Fuller did a fine job of evoking King James. Todd Cowdrey as Ralegh and Janet Ward Black as Queen Elizabeth delivered their lines clearly and moved well together as they pushed and pulled in their uncomfortable juggling of official matters. In the cast overall the greatest practical problem was with the affectation, or the lack, of a British accent. There was no standard.

Ralegh! suffers when it is viewed on a level which is not purely historical, on a level which adds the drama to a string of events. I read the script and I think it is the weak link, and the acting could not help but suffer with it. Pendleton has taken a very colorful man in the person of Sir Walter Ralegh and written about an aspect of his life which is intriguing and which shows human prejudices and desires changing the course of a nation. It seems like Pendleton realized that several fertile themes could be developed, but that he couldn’t choose one or two to concentrate on and explore. It could be that by developing a theme behind the events he would be running the danger of giving an insubstantial interpretation of history, but by not taking the chance the play totters between reenactment and drama, and the actors must regularly deliver these foreboding, probing lines without any deeper adventure into their meaning. They have to talk about the relation of the King to God, there are comparisons to Alexander the Great, the characters live with divided love and poetry. But it only creates a montage and it would be hard to find any deliberate motivation for an important line, and even the best preparation for a play can’t overcome such deficiencies in the script.

I have written a rather subjective, possibly nebulous and unclear review of a pretty and competent but uninspiring play. I hope, though, that this review is a way to talk about something more than Ralegh!, maybe it is—I’m doing it now. First theatre—why be self-conscious? On the Davidson stage the most life is to be found in the one-acts; though they can be awkward they are human, and there is the potential for them to be altogether excellent technically and thematically. Major productions can be good, there is just more danger that they will lumber and rely on something standard or safe in some sense, though it is hard to express. The theatre around right now, as I write this? Why try and say anything worthwhile, I might be wrong. But I try anyhow, because I can’t live with nothing to say, no emotions to convey, and no reason to walk naked at dusk to see how it feels. Hmmm...

Tom Pafford

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 7 May 1982