"The third annual WDAV radiothon, Celebration '81, was “obviously a success on all counts,” according to station manager John Clark. The radiothon, held November 30 through December 6, received pledges amounting to $36,000, surpassing the station’s ambitious goal. Clark emphasized that the radiothon’s success involves more than just the money aspect. He feels the success is indicative of the kind of station and community service that we provide. The station has “a great reservoir of support,” he added. He expects 97-98 percent fulfillment of pledges.

Funds from the radiothon provide for about one third of the operating budget. The station currently has a $151,000 budget for the fiscal year that ends on June 30. The College provides another third, and other money comes from contributors throughout the year. Contributors include program underwriters, listener memberships that include students and senior citizen rates, and state arts foundations or other sources. Clark said that they also hope to raise $8,000 this year from the sale of a listener-contributed item to the station. Clark said 200 volunteers worked on the radiothon. Volunteers included students and musicians such as the Renaissance String Quartet, the Carolina Brass, and the Charlotte Chamber Music Workshop, who all performed live.

By Frances Palmer '84

There’s a good reason for those walls, says Jack Powers, Vice President for Development. “We needed extra space,” he explained. And why do they remind us of old Get Smart sequels? Well, there’s a practical reason for that too. Each office has its own cubicle. And the offices running down the middle of our old hallway are indeed cubicles, separated by rug-covered partitions that give a kind of clean-lined “mod look” which is clearly functional if somewhat inconsistent with traditional Davidson interior design.

The old offices to the left remain strewn with 2x4’s, nails, and sundry clutter, awaiting the final touches which, Powers anticipates, should be completed within another week. The final twelve offices should facilitate efficient and burgeoning administrative teamwork, while becoming an unobtrusive addition to the Davidson facade.

By Elizabeth Smiley '84

What it takes to lead

A motorboat that Ron Sparks, a Charlotte College military science instructor, uses in his courses is a course in leadership development. You learn techniques involved in the management of resources. Techniques that are applicable to any management job. Another important leadership characteristic is interpersonal relationships. Things are accomplished by people and the kind of relationship established goes a long way in determining your success as a leader. Whether you intend to become a manager in a military or civilian career, Army ROTC can give you a competitive edge.

Don't wait until after college to get practical management experience. Add leadership to your class schedule now.

ARMY ROTC
LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD

For more information contact:
892-2000 ext. 336"