The Mail

LOCK YOUR DOORS

To the editor:

Welcome to the land of intellectual fantasy. A virtual Camelot of gothic structure. A place where lights burn till sunrise as brilliant young minds battle for the gallant knight adorned in tweed jacket and tie. Every banker’s son and debutante daughter sparkles on their own stage as they grapple with the complex structure of the academic world in such an innocent way. All seem so bound by study and the inviolable “honor code” that reality will never enter the fortress until graduation.

But the walls of Davidson’s fortress do not exist, and the honor code, no matter how noble (if not laughed at by outsiders), is summarily ignored. I say emphatically, that Reality cannot be ignored! I am an outsider. So you assume I am ignorant of the stipulations of the honor code. I know enough of Davidson rules to say with conviction that the honor code breeds a false sense of security.

For example, a student is seen stealing a test to review for a late test he must take. The guilty student is sent to the honor council who passes their judgment. All very proper and judicial. The integrity of Davidson is upheld. All is well in Camelot. But let’s take the honor code a little further. If each student is bound to report dishonest acts committed by another student, then you shouldn’t have to lock doors or keep up with your wallet because any assault or robbery will certainly be seen and reported.

But what about the “peasants” of the real world? The people who don’t belong to the family of Davidson. The walls of Davidson, unlike those of Camelot, consist of Concord and Mooresville highways each lined by a two-foot wall (not very stout barriers, except to very small people). WAKE UP FOLKS! Davidson is an educational fantasy/nightmare (depending on the time of day and the weight of the book), but you have to realize the honor code is only functional with the Davidson student. LOCK YOUR DOORS! You can enjoy your college career without the sobering reality of rape or burglary to mar your life. Use the honor code with all its nobility to its written limit, and your common sense to its fullest extent.

Sincerely,
A Commoner

To the Editor:

On 19 October 1982, during the regular Military Science lab, the Davidson ROTC Department hosted a Range Fire. The Davidson ROTC contributes to the conceptual development of a leader. Such events as the Range Fire contribute to the practical development of an officer’s expertise, “the management of violence.”

Cadets from Davidson and Catawba Colleges received instruction on familiarization and operation of the M-60 machine gun and the .45 caliber pistol. Cadets then fired live ammunition at silhouette targets from these weapons and the M-16A1 rifle, the primary weapon of the infantry soldier. Cadet 1LT Paul Griffith, Officer in Charge of the Range Fire, ensured that all training was conducted safely and efficiently.

Stephen J. Miller
MS-1/2 CDR

Hobart Park: Submit

Dear editor:

Hi Carl. Hi Ed. Gosh, I sure was upset to hear that you guys have so much creativity on hand and no avenue through which it can be seen, heard, or what have you. There must be noend to your frustration. Of course, the Davidsonian responded to the huge public demand; I understand that there will be a literary supplement in two weeks. Gosh, that sure is spiffy news. Still, with all the work you guys have, there would probably have to be ten literary supplements to cover it all. Well, I have the solution to your problem. Did you know that Hobart Park is accepting submissions from now until November 8? What’s more, we are committed to meeting all of your creative needs. If you don’t write poetry, but rather an original computer program for generating art, send it in. Of course, poetry is great, along with prose, artwork, photography, intaglio, whatever you think is worth “public expression.” Remember, guys, the deadline is November 8. That leaves only two weeks for that literary/artistic genius to be heralded throughout the Davidson community. Hey, if you do submit, either mail your work to P.O. Box 4167, or drop it by Cannon 209.

Selah!
Eric Fichtner ’83
Editor, Hobart Park

To the Editor:

Before it’s too late, I want to express a concern over the planning of the new athletic facility. Duncan Fraser's recent article in The Davidsonian points out the various sections of the facility and what sports would be located in each, including track, tennis, gymnastics, basketball, volleyball, and racquetball. What? No squash courts? Perhaps the planners and architects don’t realize that squash courts and racquetball courts are quite different. You simply can’t play a real game of squash on a racquetball court. There are squash players in Davidson, students and faculty alike, all in love with one of the fastest, most enjoyable, and fastest-growing racquet sports in the world, yet all stifled because Davidson has no squash courts. I'd like to know if the Office of Development has looked into the possibility of squash courts in the new facility. I'd hate to see a 5.5 million dollar project neglect to do so.

Taylor Bowen ’85

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from our readers. We try to print all letters that are of general interest, but we adhere to these four guidelines:
1. We require that letters be in our hands by Tuesday 7 p.m.;
2. We require that letters be neatly typed;
3. We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editor, Stewart Cauley;
4. We reserve the right not to print letters that (a) function as advertisements; (b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes; (c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in many other letters printed on the same topic. We also reserve the right to condense very long letters.

The Davidsonian does not in any way endorse the opinions expressed in the letters we print.

Registering with the Selective Service on your 18th Birthday

Nothing could be easier. Within a month of your 18th birthday, go to the nearest U.S. Post Office. Pick up the simple registration form and fill it out. Then hand it to the postal clerk. That's all there is to it. It's quick. It's easy. And it's the law.

National Headquarters, Selective Service System, Washington, D.C. 20435

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 29 October 1982