by overlapping responsibilities and is compromised when one office expects another to take care of a project about which it
has heard nothing. I asked for examples of this phenomenon, but those to whom I talked were reluctant to discuss
the subject. However, in "researching" this occurrence, everyone recognized that while each office has its own sphere of operations, they
would be more efficient if they made sure that everyone knew what everyone else is doing. Basic communication can be
very productive for a college campus. The problems I cited above are not unique to Davidson, as exemplified by the
trend to hire college Presidents with an administrative as opposed to an academic background. It is something we all need
to work on and will be important to a successful resolution of the noise ordinance issue, to putting on social
events which do not conflict with each other, to making Carnegie Basement feel more a part of the campus, etc.
Effective communication between the town and students concerning the noise ordinance, hopefully, will prevent unrealistic demands from both sides. I
do not know if broad-based staff meetings or if formalized student participation in more areas of college administration will help
to ameliorate this phenomenon. The Student Government Association is helping to resolve the problem through its inter-campus mailing system, the
Trustee Contact Committee, and other efforts at achieving greater student representation in administrative decisions. Coffee and cokes serve as a
constructive forum for this type of communication. These efforts should be actively encouraged and augmented. To some extent, insufficient communication
and cooperation is a problem inherent in any organization, large or small. However, Davidson is a special place. Proper communication
would make that known to everyone.

Keith Hearle ’82

To the Editor:

I find it impressive that several ATO members were concerned enough to write an editorial of sorts supporting eating houses
and denouncing the Commons. In fact, as a freshman with many questions about eating for next year, I was hoping
for some kind of logical persuasion to help me make a decision. No such luck, I’m afraid. The writer’s arguments
were far from convincing. Somehow I’ve never had any great yearning to see the faces of the people who wash
my dishes, much less do it myself. And if there’s a “bunch of jerks” at the next table, I don’t
have to endure them; instead, I walk across the tremendous expanse of Commons and seat myself at another table. But
the non sequitur comes when our writer calls people who want flexibility “shy.” Don’t bet on it. Call it independent.
Don’t get me wrong now. I may just want to join an eating house yet. But as long as I
have to read absurd and irrelevant arguments like those of our “Satisfied Courter,” Gamma Delta Iota looks all the more
desirable.

Thurston Hatcher ’85

To the Editor:

Malicious. Abhorrent. Unfounded. Perverted. Misconstrued. Unintelligent and emotional are the only words fitting enough to describe the recent article in
the Davidsonian aimed at slandering the newest member on Patterson Court. Our society is inherently based upon the principles of
capitalism, by which a producer provides goods and/or services that a consumer desires and/or needs. If there are several producers
for a similar good, and if the demand for these goods is limited, then it follows that individuals purchasing goods
will select those of the highest quality and of competitive price. It appears that a fundamental situation of capitalism exists
at Davidson College in which a new producer of goods and services has entered the market to compete with pre-existing,
traditionalist providers. We, of course, refer to the establishment of the Commons on Patterson Court. It appears that the authors
of the article subscribe to the services provided at ATO. Also, the authors object to the loss of fellow subscribers
to the Vail Commons, the new competitive producer. In raising argument in opposition to their loss, it appears that ATO’s
subscribers oppose the fundamental doctrines of supply and demand; their situation being one of “supply not adequately suited to demand.”
If this rationale proves accurate, then must we assume our detractors are anti-capitalist? And, if anti-capitalist, and opposed to the
loss of fellow subscribers to a better producer who is more adequately suited to the demand, then we must assume
that our interlocutors either enjoy inferior services or support a system based on “marginal for all, regardless of quality.” We
believe our readers would deem this system Socialist. Further, if our objectors pose a solution to their supposed inequity, it
is clear that their only logical course of action would be the removal or neutralization of the Commons. As the
Commons is based on a legal foundation, this would necessitate violent action. This would eliminate a valid and sacred freedom:
freedom of choice. If our readers be so adaptive in thought to correlate a system founded on “something for all,
regardless of individual preference” combined with violent modes of action, then surely they can...Deduce that this hideous transfigurement stands as
a blatant example of Communist aggression. We, the Order of Gamma Delta Iota, never fail to maintain, protect, and defend
the individual’s freedoms of choice. Therefore, we extend a call to other members of Patterson Court concerned about this dagger
aimed at the heart of American freedoms, to join our ensign and march towards victory with the annihilation of the
Communist threat garrisoned at ATO. The hammer and sickle will be crushed.

The Order of Gamma Delta Iota

To the Student Body:

Four years. My, how time passes when you’re having fun. Yes, I have had fun at Davidson, but over the
holidays as I reviewed my four years here, I realized that perhaps I had not gotten out of my Davidson
experience all that I could have. Davidson is a small school. It caters to the student as an individual. All
the brochures say so. The catalogue does too. But what about in reality?

When I came here, as an oh-so-naive freshman, I looked forward to the college years, those years in which myself
and the universe would be revealed to me and in which I could explore in depth the world of academia
along with my peers who would be just as curious. Like I said, I was naive. To begin with, as
it turns out, my peers for the most part are not as curious as I about an in-depth study of
any subject. Detailed questions in class (by me or anyone else) are met with groans, sighs, and sometimes outright threats
of violence in the hall later. Professors, sensing the tension and afraid to lose intellectually most of the class (rightly
so, I am afraid) answer noncommittally and refer it to out-of-class time.

Secondly, courses here are designed for surface study of any given topic. This is fine for introductory courses yet what
about the upper levels, especially in one’s major field of study? I am a Latin major. Laugh if you wish,
but even if crazy, I deserve the right to the best, most complete course of study available. The handbook says
that the prerequisite for Latin 133 is Latin 132 or 131. Fine. It also states that for Latin 134-138 one
must complete them in sequence. No argument. What happens, though, is that for some curious reason I and other upper-level
students are placed in the Latin 132 class. Consequently, we read Latin on a much lower level and discuss literature
with those less well-read. This seems to me an outright contradiction of Davidson’s supposed dedication to “the individual.” The same
thing, in effect, happens in other areas too. There are no prerequisites, or insufficient ones, for Religion seminars, upper-level English,
Sociology, History, Political Science, and Art History courses. The upper-level students are held back by those with less background from
going into the heart of a subject and from making parallels and comparisons to other areas discussed in other classes.
This I find discouraging not to mention dulling for mental processes. Not only from a student’s viewpoint, however, professors are
bound by that least common denominator. And, how disappointing it must be to have ideas, questions, and arguments ready on
course material only to shelve it after the first lecture goes way beyond students’ preparation.

I suppose, after all of this, what disappoints me the most about my Davidson education is not that I never
get courses without drop-add, not that I get mixed up with bad numbers at room draw, not even that I
did not get full credit from the University of Georgia, where I went to take some detailed courses, but that
I was deceived. I may have been naive, but I think my freshman expectations were justified. It has taken me
four years to realize that the system has trapped me in an academic holding pattern. You may say I’m slow,
but my optimism held out almost to the end. What about you? Oh well, it’s been.

Phoebe Forio ’82

To the Student Body:

I have less than two terms until graduation and quickly will admit that I have not taken advantage of all
Davidson offers. It is with my Davidson experience in mind that I ask you as students to think about what
remains of your Davidson education and hopefully avoid some of my mistakes. I most regret that I did not ask
more questions. I wish I could relive every class situation when I almost asked a question but didn’t, or what
is worse shrugged my shoulders at someone else’s sincere question. We owe it to ourselves and each other to actively
question and think in class. What better sign is there of a thinking student than a sincere question?

I regret that I have sat quietly in classes where teachers were too nice to ask hard questions. Maybe they
kept me from looking stupid, but they didn’t help me to be a thinking person. Have I paid some $15,000
and four years of my young life just to slide by quietly and

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 22 January 1982
