Features

God, Man, and the World

Dr. Balasubramanian instills respect for Hinduism

By JOHN KROTCHKO ’83

The ritual had begun. Swoosh—swoosh—swoosh went the chalk, tracing the timeless, elemental triangle from which all the great questions spring: God, Man, World. Dr. R. Balasubramanian warmed to his topic quickly. That triangle and a wealth of categories and names and analogies were soon to be manifest, the elucidation of the primary scriptures of Hinduism, the Upanishads.

I had seen his triangle appear once before on a blackboard at the University of Madras, at the Dr. S. Radhakrishnan Institute for the Advanced Study of Philosophy where Balasubramanian has spent most of his twenty-five years as a professor of philosophy. The University is situated near the center of Madras, a colorful, magnificent, filthy and altogether intense city of some five million people in South India. It is a city where the ancient culture of the Indian subcontinent meets modern life and Western ways and works out daily existence in all of its confounding means and extremes.

Now the triangle appeared on a Davidson blackboard at the ten o'clock meeting of Religion 173, bringing to mind that community of people halfway around the world; Humes all over again, but from an entirely different perspective. How did they get to be so different? Balasubramanian turned with noticeable relish to the class and to the classical Upanishads, to the pot whose essence is clay, to man whose essence is soul, to soul which exists apart from ultimate reality—God—because of man’s attachment to desire and self and the illusion of the World. No triangle really, sort of. Deep empirical questioning brought the forest thinkers to these conclusions around 600 BC, about the same time thinkers in other parts of the world were setting their own cultural wheels in motion.

“He was more like a minister preaching,” commented Kathy Kooken that night outside E.H. Little. “He really felt what he was saying!” I couldn’t have agreed more. Dr. Balasubramanian, temporarily sequestered from a lecture tour with Colgate University by his colleague Dr. I. Job Thomas of our South Asian Studies Department, had come to Davidson to talk mythology with a Metaphor and Meaning class, interpret modernization in India at a Union gathering, and lecture on a concept in the primary scriptures to our Hinduism class. A dominant theme of his talks seems to have concerned the essential integrity of the primary scriptures and the importance of protecting their meaning from the vagaries of modern anthropological analysis or the social abuses of later ages that derive their authority from them. It was not surprising, therefore, that Balasubramanian seemed the most relaxed and free from the structured formalities when he was alone with his triangle in front of our class. What are the essential ideas about God, Man, World that underlie a culture? We were all there to find out, and while we had discussed the basic Upanishads for over a week with Dr. Mahony, there was something unmistakably unique about Balasubramanian’s flowing delivery.

If you were to visit his home in Madras you would discover a typical middle-class Indian family, and in one room you would find their little shrine of Ganesha, the elephant-headed god: a framed picture, an image, flowers, incense, oil lamp. Ganesha is very popular with the people—he removes obstacles and brings prosperity. Ganesha and a Madras and all the undercurrents of ancient Indian culture comprise the daily reality of Balasubramanian and his family, just like America and a whole four thousand years of Judeo-Christian cultural heritage is the almost-unconsciously assumed reality of our daily lives. It was the communication of that intimate, pervasive relationship between the professor and his subject that was so unique. Those who caught it, like Kathy Kooken, came away with something special, glimpsed perhaps the current, personal reality of Religion 173.

As anyone in Religion 173 can tell you, even if you’ve spent a semester in India, as I can tell you. But just realizing this is a leap of enlightenment.

It happens gradually. I asked Kathy Kooken if she finds it difficult to shift cultural perspectives in Hinduism class every day.

“Oh no, not really,” she said.

“Why is that?” I asked. “Because of your trip to Spain last year?”

“No,” she replied. “Because I’m a junior. I know how to do that stuff now.”

* THE DAVIDSONIAN / October 1982