~ Volume LIX, Number 1

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Friday 8 January 1982

Terry, Others Respond to Kazee Poll

Dr. Kazee’s Public Opinion survey charts gave interested Davidsonian readers an opportunity to see how the student body responded to
a number of controversial questions about the Athletic Department, Patterson Court, and the Honor Code.

Briefly, the charts revealed that a majority of students interviewed feel that the Honor Code is effective, but a substantial
minority remains skeptical about the consistency in procedures applied to reported violations. The polls indicated a general support of the
athletic department and its ability to cater to most students. Davidson women voted an overwhelming “no” to sororities at the
college, and Davidson gentlemen expressed a strong desire to see fraternity bid systems incorporated into the Davidson experience.

Chairman of the Council on Campus and Religious Life, Dean Terry, said he was surprised that 33 percent of the
women asserted they would definitely not enter a sorority, and only 7 percent said they would join absolutely. He stated
that he supports the “well presented proposal” for another exclusively female eating house, despite the seeming lack of desire for
all-female social clubs. Later he added that “single-sex social organizations have been more successful” here than coed ones.

Honor Code questions were greeted with some alarmingly high percentages of negative response. For instance, 36 percent of the polled
students feel that most people do not report suspected violations. In addition, 35 percent said they do not believe that
consistent procedures are applied to all reported violations. Dean Terry chose not to respond to these figures, but to enthusiastically
emphasize that 74 percent of the students felt the code needs no major revision. He said he thought such results
indicate that students are willing to support the status quo as long as it seems to work well.

At the same time, Dean Terry admitted that the poll clearly shows that students need to be better educated about
the Honor System. “One of the problems that we have with the Honor System,” he said, “is that we emphasize
the positive so much.” Students seem to think that Honor Code infractions simply do not occur, and Senior Honor Council
Member Debbie Metzgar admitted that when she entered Davidson, she believed it impossible for an Honor Code violation to really
happen. In Terry’s opinion, the Honor System's weaknesses become more difficult to accept when only optimistic information about the System
circulates throughout the college community.

Acting Athletic Director Ed Farrell felt, as Dean Terry did, that the poll revealed Davidson students to be uninformed about
important aspects of school activities. He was pleased to see that 98 percent polled supported school athletics in general and
49 percent said the program was worth its cost. However, he thought students need to know more about intercollegiate teams’
divisional standings which are “a mixed bag there’s no question.” He said he felt that a fairly strong support for
Division I standing reflects students’ desire to participate in the traditional level of competitiveness for Davidson and to maintain Southern
Conference visibility. “Athletics are like politics,” he said. “Everyone thinks they know everything,” and everyone gets very emotional about their
opinions. Farrell agreed that the polls might reflect some of this emotional loyalty to athletic standards of the past.

According to Kazee class member Rob Johnson, the class did attempt some interpretation of the survey results during the very
last days of the term. However, he did not know whether the interpretation was completed, or whether it is available
for administrators or students.

Election Results

The SGA conducted elections on December 15 for the offices of Union Board, Y-Corp, Freshman advisors, editorships of the Davidsonian,
the Wildcat Handbook, and Quips and Cranks. The unopposed co-editors of Quips and Cranks are juniors Carol Roche and Jim
Reeves. The Y-Corps posts, also uncontested, are President Cathi Dumas, a junior; Vice-President Michael Kelley, a junior; Treasurer Andrew Wilson,
a sophomore; and Community Liaison Melissa McManis, also a sophomore.

The actual competition for offices pitted sophomore Stewart Cauley against classmate Jeb Benedict for Davidsonian editor, and the teams of
sophomores Sherri Lind and Lindsey Rader versus juniors Mike Frankhouser and Laura Champlain for Wildcat Handbook co-editors. For the Union
Board offices, juniors Lindsey Biddle and Mike Goode vied for president, junior Sherman Allen opposed classmate Elizabeth McMillan for co-curricular
vice-president, and junior Steve Stine faced junior Danny Waddill for vice-president for social activities. Three teams of two, all juniors,
David Carr and John Mann, Reaves Robinson and Gordon Turnbull, and Amy Crittenberger and Mike Mason, vied for the posts
of Freshman Advisors.

The winners of the contested races are: Stewart Cauley, Davidsonian Editor; Mike Frankhouser and Laura Champlain, Wildcat Handbook co-editors; Mike
Goode, Union Board President; Elizabeth McMillan, Union Board co-curricular Vice-President; and Danny Waddill, Vice-President for Social Affairs. Since neither of
the three pairs running for Freshman Advisors received over 50% of the vote, on the 16th the SGA held a
runoff between the two top vote-getters, Amy Crittenberger/Mike Mason and Reaves Robinson/Gordon Turnbull. Amy Crittenberger and Mike Mason won this
race.

796 students, or approximately 57% of the student body, voted in the student election. 500 or roughly 35% voted in
the runoff. The winners will serve in their various capacities throughout 1982.

Lucy Everett
