Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

‘One reaped the reward,

Life in the Bag

“Young man, don’t you put the buttermilk in that bag! I’m not as strong as you may think!” Turning to the cashier, she added, “You have to tell these bagboys everything.”

The sad truth is that her remarks represent public attitudes toward baggers. Without these additional instructions, they assume, we are helpless. We don’t think or understand. We simply bag.

Grocery bagging introduced me to life. The supermarket is a microcosm of society. After all, everybody’s got to buy food. While for herself Mrs. Schubert purchased only bare essentials, she gave her five dogs, four cats, and two horses the royal Purina treatment. Amy, a cashier, married at seventeen and divorced at nineteen. The Wilsons bought up Winn-Dixie’s cheap cookies and soda cans, only to resell them from their house to children in the poor South Miami neighborhood. And David worked for the Jamaican government before it changed hands. Now he’s a 48-year-old “bagboy.” So many lives surrounded me.

My first supermarket job also helped me set some goals. I now know where I don’t want to work.

In the supermarket hierarchy, the bagboy’s position is the lowest. I hardly enjoyed having a cashier two years my junior talk down to me, even if she did know how to scan. When she embarrassed me with her orders to “Clean up on aisle five!” over the loudspeaker, I wanted to ask her what her favorite Dickens novel was.

Under the circumstances, however, I had to learn my place. I had to keep quiet and bag.

After several weeks, I considered myself the finest bagger Winn-Dixie had ever seen. Everyone knows bread and eggs get terribly mangled in the bottom of a bag, but I knew the secret of plastic-bagging frozen chicken so that it wouldn't leak and tear the sack. I squared the items to fit as snugly as possible. I even tried.

Bagging taught me about survival, too. Even though tipping had gone the way of disco and government benefits to the poor, I still managed to get tips. Some customers raced to get in my aisle. “Hey, pea brain,” one bagger said, “didn’t the manager tell you to stop that?”

The most uncomfortable times for me were when my mother came to the store for groceries. I didn’t like to interfere with the image I had created. One day, I was busy bagging and looked up, only to see my mother standing in my lane. It was too late, I was stuck. Winn-Dixie and reality were the same.

Soon Rosann finished scanning, I finished bagging, then I promised my mother that I would be home by six, and she left. I watched Rosann as her eyes followed my mother, dressed in her green Lacoste shirt and her Vanderbilt jeans, out of the supermarket, until the sliding glass doors shut behind her.

“What does your father do?” Rosann asked me.

She had once said that someday she would leave that place and go to college. Maybe even next year. Then she asked what I was going to do. “I’m gonna quit and go to college,” I said, “in three weeks.” Maybe I shouldn’t have said it. It didn’t feel right.

But I was soon appeased. I no longer resented Jean, Maureen, and Rosann, the cashiers. Instead, we were friends, and I accepted my status. But I had to accept it for only three weeks.

Thurston Hatcher 85

(Thurston won first place in the R. Windley Hall Freshman Competition.)

---