To the Editor:

Or rather to Paul Flood, Dave Fleming, Tom Schember, and Steve Stine: I’m not about to discuss the merits of
your letter to the editor or of the Davidsonian. But regarding your statement, “As for the Literary Supplement... We think
it’s better to leave fine arts to the fine parchment...” I might note that throughout the nineteenth and into the
twentieth century, American newspapers regularly published short stories and poems. Newspapers have ceased to assist our nation’s best authors and
have increased the space allotted to fashion, cooking, sewing, gardening, home decoration, and similar subjects. Such features promote the products
of advertisers and influence the American lifestyle—(sic). Shame on American newspapers. And thanks to the Davidsonian for bucking the commercial
tide and presenting stories and poems by our best local authors. Contribute to a great American newspaper tradition and keep
publishing the Literary Supplement.

John Engell
Department of English

To the College Community:

All of us involved in the College Bowl program at Davidson wish to express our sincere appreciation to all of
you who supported us the weekend of March 19-21 in the first round of the National Championship playoffs. This competition
marked the first time Davidson has hosted a national tournament and thanks to your support through attendance and enthusiasm, it
may not be the last. None of us has ever seen or heard a better crowd and we cannot help
but think that you improved our play. We also wish to thank Lyman Collins, C. Shaw Smith, and others who
helped to put the tournament together. A special note of gratitude also to Sandy Carnegie for his kind expression of
support. Davidson, you made us proud. We’ll try to return the favor.

Sincerely,
The College Bowl Team and Coaches
David Aldridge ’82
Tim Whalen ’82
Mary Ann Gelly ’83
Art Matt ’84
Richard Barber ’84
Debby Williams ’84
Neal Biggers ’84
Paul K. Ward ’82
Dorothy E. Graham ’84
John Eglin ’84
Alice Ann Music ’82
Daniel T. Voorhis ’84
Daniel Edward Armistead ’82

To the Editor:

We, the undersigned, indignantly protest a flagrant violation of the revered Davidson Honor Code. In an attempt to beautify our
campus and respond appropriately to the Phi Delt/North Meck lawn furniture, we last week erected a Greco-Aqua-Mortico-Romanesque monument on our
front lawn. Shortly thereafter, Cindy Faulkenberry’s cute little orange duckies (ducus cutus orangatangus), two (2) in number, were forcibly removed
from the aforementioned garden sculpture. In addition, the surrounding protective enclosure (fensus wimis) was irreparably mangled.

These activities obviously constitute a gross infraction of both the Honor Code and the Code of Responsibility. We of ATO
will not forget!

Signed,
Lindsey Biddle ’83
Jeff Herrin ’83
Mark Phillips ’82
Charles C. Lovett ’84
Stewart McWilliam ’84
John Hartman ’82
Cindy Faulkenberry ’82
Gary Sladcik ’84
Ralph Lasely ’82
John Shaw ’82
Cynthia L. Briscoe ’84
John A. Lusk IV ’83
Elizabeth D. Brazell ’83
Brian Butler ’84
Linda Hulbert ’84
Jeff Hamilton ’82
Jeff Tyler ’84

To the Editor:

I just want to congratulate the group of students who got together to present the play Godspell. I think it’s
great that at a school as small as Davidson there is still the interest and talent to produce so moving
a representation. These students did it for pure enjoyment and are donating the profits to the upcoming drama Raleigh. Many
thanks to them for thoroughly entertaining us as well as reminding us of more important matters than our usual mundane
problems.

Sincerely,
Connie Terry

To the Editor:

Few peopleare prouder than myself as to the progress of the Davidson College Basketball team this year. Such a fine
effort from the players and coaches should be rewarded by loyal fan support, student support, and cheerleader support. However, such
was sorely lacking at the Davidson-Furman game and especially the Southern Conference Tournament. My hearty congratulations to the cheerleaders that
did come to the Davidson-Furman game. They did a good job; however, they were few in number. The students that
were there also did a fine job. What was most embarrassing to the school and alumni was the Saturday telecast
of the championship game of the Southern Conference Tournament. For the first time in many years, Davidson had a chance
to win the Southern Conference and go on to the NCAA Regional play. You would think that cheerleaders, whose rooms
would be paid for by the college, as I understand it, would be excited and supportive of the team in
such a situation. I realize that the game occurred at the end of the spring break for the school; however,
it seems to me that cheerleaders who are really interested in their school and its athletics could take a few
days off from their precious spring break and support their school by being at the championship game. It was extremely
embarrassing to see the supporters, the band, and the cheerleaders who were there and supporting the University of Tennessee at
Chattanooga; then the camera would swing around the arena and the only Davidson supporter that was there, other than the
fans, was the Wildcat. My congratulations to him. At least he has the right spirit. If the cheerleaders cannot do
the job that they are supposed to do for Davidson College, then get some new cheerleaders, or, if you want
to, I'll be glad to suit up and lead the cheering section myself. The cheerleaders and the pep band both
have an obligation not only to the school when they take such a task as they have, but most importantly
to the basketball team. I hope something is done about the cheerleading situation before next year.

Sincerely,
John F. Cutchin
Class of 1972

Letter to the Student Body:

Traditions come and traditions go. This week, at Davidson College, another institution has gone the way of mandatory chapel, passing
relatively unnoted from the whirl of activity that propels us from day to day. The institution whereof I speak is
the “Senior Candids” section of the yearbook. Conceived in 1969, the section enjoyed a long and happy life, but it
seems to be an idea whose time has come. Participation in recent years has dwindled steadily, and I have judged
this year’s turnout insufficient to justify continuing the practice. On March 8, after three months of extensions, letters, and warnings,
only half of the senior class had submitted candids. This just isn’t enough support to warrant spending 20% of our
meager budget and 20% of the book’s pages on the project. It’s not fair to the rest of the college
community, nor is it fair to the staff, which has its own deadlines to meet. This letter does not purport
to place blame on those who declined to take part in this tradition. I merely wish to announce my desire
to produce a yearbook that in every way reflects the activities and attitudes of the Davidson College student body. Your
abstention indicated to me that perhaps I can find a more suitable use for those seventy-odd pages.

Karen Welty
Editor-Quips and Cranks

Note: For those who did turn in candids, please check the announcement sheet for instructions on claiming your photos. —
Thanks anyway!
