Change in the Bank

These days, visitors to Davidson's Piedmont Bank have met with a surprise: Piedmont Bank’s Davidson office is undergoing remodeling. What customers see, however, is only a part of a month-long project. “It's more than just cosmetic work,” says Buddy Caldwell, the branch manager.

The changes at the bank will be substantial. They are rearranging offices, adding new “privacy booths,” and improving office traffic patterns. Mr. Caldwell points to three major reasons for the changes, “It needed sprucing up, we wanted more room, and we needed more privacy.”

The interior familiar to most students dated from 1971. The new changes promise better lighting, a more attractive atmosphere, and improved teller facilities. The tellers, according to Cindy Knott, are looking forward to new drawers and better filing facilities.

The bank began sometime in the early 1900s as Davidson Town Bank and has grown over the years to occupy three adjoining buildings. In more recent times, the bank has grown from a $3 million branch to an office with $15 million in accounts. Davidson’s facility has the distinction of being the original office and main branch of Piedmont Bank and Trust Company. The headquarters, however, have moved to Charlotte.

The bank staff will be working around the construction for another two weeks or so. The lobby should be finished next week. Piedmont’s contractor, the Hipp Construction Company of Charlotte, has been doing much of its work on nights and weekends to avoid interfering with the bank’s operations. In the meantime, Mr. Caldwell says, “We hope the inconvenience will be as small as possible. The changes will mean better services for everyone.”

Jeb Benedict ’84

United Arts Fund Drive

This month the Arts & Science Council of Charlotte opens its annual Art Fund Drive to the general public. The goal of the Council is $1,005,000 in contributions from the public and businesses of Mecklenburg County. This year’s fund drive is truly a United Arts effort; individual members will not seek support on their own.

The Arts and Science Council serves forty-eight cultural organizations in Charlotte, coordinates activities, and provides operating and special project funding for organizations such as Spirit Square, Dance Charlotte, The Light Factory, the Oratorio Singers, and the Charlotte Symphony. The Council also sponsors special projects from time to time.

Davidson College is an affiliate member; the Council has granted funds to support Davidson's upcoming production of Raliah. Admissions, and Dr. David Kaylor of the Religion Department are coordinators of the Davidson area drive this year. Cannisters for donations will be located at various places around campus throughout February, and posters will advertise the cause.

This year’s slogan is “Give to the Charlotte Arts Collection.”

by Alexander Macbeth, ’85

February 1982