Never before have so many of the teams been so talented and so well coached.

On all fronts, Davidson athletics are preparing for good seasons. Never before have so many of the teams been so talented and well coached. The coaches, many of them new, are recruiting beyond all expectations, defying the apparent limitations of their budgets. Just fifteen months ago the Athletic Department was mired in dark turmoil with little light in sight. Fortunately, a new athletic director and coaches have turned their backs to all the unpleasantness and have their eyes firmly locked on future goals they full well plan to attain.

The Davidson basketball empire fell long ago. The Dark Ages of nonsuccess are past. We now stand on the edge of a renaissance—let’s not let it go by unnoticed and for future generations only.

Steve Soud ’84

Cats Save Face, Defeat Georgetown 33-21

Glory hallelujah! The Davidson Wildcats do have an offense that can score and a defense that can stand its ground.

Savor the victory, a 33-21 drubbing of the Georgetown (KY) Tigers last Saturday before a sparse crowd of 1500. Who cares that the opponent was young and inexperienced? After all, a win is a win. But Coach Ed Farrell did see an improved football team on the gridiron.

“It wasn’t exactly pretty,” Farrell said, “but we definitely did play better football.”

In a sense, the game could have been dubbed the battle of the inepts considering Davidson was coming off a 54-0 loss and Georgetown a 70-13 embarrassment. The Cats, however, erased the misnomer and played at a level of respectability.

Of special notice was the performance of fullback Mike Longmire. The sophomore rushed for 153 yards on 27 carries and, more importantly, scored four touchdowns, tying a Davidson single-game scoring record. Longmire was replacing starting fullback Bob Miller, out with an ankle injury.

Longmire’s showing could make things tough on the coaching staff when Miller returns, but as Farrell said, “It’s the type of problem I like. Look at it this way: now we have two starting fullbacks.”

Davidson went on top early as Stone Bynum recovered a fumble at the Georgetown 21-yard line. That turnover led to a three-yard touchdown plunge by Longmire. The lead was short-lived as the Tigers came right back to assume a brief 7-6 lead on a seven-play, 72-yard touchdown drive.

The Cats reestablished their lead at the 4:21 mark in the second period on an 80-yard drive culminated by a dazzling 21-yard sweep into the end zone by halfback Leonard Walker. For the game, Walker rushed for 96 yards on 16 carries and caught four passes for 37 yards. Two minutes later, a muffed snap by the Tiger punter put the Cats on the Georgetown 23, where they punched it over in three plays.

Twice in the second half Georgetown pulled to within a touchdown, but each time Davidson rallied to score. The first Wildcat score came on a 15-yard jolt off right tackle by Longmire, which ended a 76-yard drive. The second came at the three-minute mark following a Tiger fumble on its own 30-yard line. In four rushes, Walker got the ball down to the two, whence Longmire took it over for the score.

Statistically, Davidson had the clear advantage, leading in first downs 22 to 14, yards rushing 291 to 101, and total yards 378 to 263. The Cats had just one turnover to Georgetown’s five, three of which led directly to Wildcat scores.

Said Farrell, “There’s a difference between playing winning football and letting the other team lose it. I think the latter might be a little more true this time. We definitely had superior personnel, but we still were too inconsistent, particularly on offense. The defense, too, was tentative, but only in the second half.”

For the game, Georgetown passed for 162 yards to Davidson’s 87. “The secondary and undercoverage had a little letdown,” Farrell said, “but in practice our pass defense has been great.”

Scott Huie ’85

NIAN/September 24, 1982