William Buckley Lectures in Love, Julian Bond on His Way

A conservative author, editor, and lecturer William F. Buckley lectured in Love Auditorium on Wednesday, April 17 to an audience of approximately 1000 people. His topic was “Reflection on Contemporary Conceptions,” followed by a short question-and-answer session and a reception. Julian Bond, a prominent southern black politician, will discuss “The Political Outlook for the ’80s” at 8 P.M. on Monday, April 26, in Love Auditorium.

According to an official College news release, Buckley was sponsored by the Union Speakers Committee. Speakers Committee Chairman Sherman Allen (’83) said that the “vast majority” of funds to pay for Buckley’s visit have been provided by the Shelby Cullom Davis Foundation. The Foundation is based in New York City and provides grants to public policy groups, institutions of higher education, and business. The foundation seems to emphasize conservative free-enterprise. “Only about 2000 dollars of students’ money is being spent” on Buckley’s engagement, Sherman said. College Union Director C. Shaw Smith said that Buckley’s agent quoted his fee as being approximately 7000 dollars.

Buckley’s 1 1/2-hour lecture stressed personal freedom and private enterprise. He said, “Government is organically unsuited to effect economic progress,” and saw a creeping alliance between “big business and big government.” He viewed the recent raising of the investment tax credit for corporations and lowering of the capital gains tax very positively, noting that Japan and Germany have no capital gains tax.

Buckley drew an analogy between President Kennedy’s “Distressed Areas Act,” which provided aid to economically depressed areas “so that people could continue to live where they were living and continue semi-employment,” and the federal bailout of Chrysler Corporation, “so that people could continue to make unsold cars.” Buckley touched upon a broad range of topics and punctuated his speech with numerous bits of humor and quotations. He said that politicians ask “What do you want?,” and that the choice was between economic security and progress. Buckley deplored the “rich fixation phenomenon” he said has been imported from England, describing it by quoting Anthony Burgess: “a masochistic pleasure of harassing the rich.” He blasted Walter Mondale’s “egalitarian frenzies,” and called upon Americans to count their blessings. He mentioned the dangers of reductionism, citing Emanuel Kant’s description of marriage as “mutual monopolization of the genitalia” as an example.

Sherman Allen, who introduced Buckley, said that he stopped the question and answer session after five questions because Buckley requested to do so. There were awkward breaks before the first and third questions because the questions were not coming quickly enough, he said. Davidson philosophy professor Dr. Maydole asked Buckley what principle he would cite to defend taxation or the draft. “Philosophers try to distinguish between appearance and reality. Mr. Buckley’s answer did not do this. I don’t think he really answered the question.” Buckley mentioned the principle that the safety of the public is paramount.

Julian Bond’s appearance is sponsored by the Black Student Coalition, the Union Speakers Committee, and is a part of the Martin Luther King Lecture series. Sophomore Harriet Gaston, the new chairman of the BSC Speaker’s Committee, said that the mere five-day difference in the two speakers’ engagements “was just coincidence—it just happened that way. He is a black politician whose name we felt most people would have heard.” She said that the BSC originally wanted Bond to speak at Davidson, but that the Martin Luther King Lecture Series is paying for most of the cost. The Series was established by a grant from College President Spencer.To bring a prominent black speaker to the campus each year, Sherman said. Julian Bond is a Georgia state senator. He was elected to the Georgia House of Representatives in 1965 but was barred from taking his seat because of his strong anti-Vietnam War posture for three years. Bond was catapulted into national prominence at the 1968 Democratic National Convention, when the Georgia Loyal National Democratic Delegation, which he co-chaired, successfully unseated the regular delegation appointed by then-Governor Lester Maddox. Bond was the first black ever nominated for vice-president. He has spearheaded grassroots campaigns for greater minority participation in the political process and was recently named to Time Magazine’s “200 Leaders” list. He also hosted the Saturday Night Live television show in 1977 and played the part of a civil rights lawyer in the movie Greased Lightning.

William Buckley is the author of more than 20 books, the most recent of which is entitled Marco Polo If You Can. A Yale graduate, he is editor and founder of the National Review magazine and ran for mayor of New York City in 1965 on the Conservative Party ticket. He writes a nationally syndicated newspaper column, “On the Right.”

Who are Davidson’s donors? The school receives its greatest financial support from alumni. They provided, for instance, 59% of the 1981 Living Endowment, contributing a total of $594,789. Davidson also counts on support from corporations, whose members often consist of Davidson graduates. These corporations may match an alumni gift or may contribute to Davidson individually. Director of Corporate Relations Mike Daisley explained major aspects of the Corporate Campaign. “It goes much beyond the ‘Old Boy’ system,” he said. Davidson studies alumni, especially those who may preside on a corporation. The college targets these as possible donors and then attempts to present gift giving as a sound investment with ramifications beyond direct benefit to the companies themselves. Corporations which have donated funds to Davidson include IBM, R.J. Reynolds Industries, Standard Oil, Citibank, Hewlett Packard, and Xerox. Corporate gifts comprised 20% ($206,654) of the Living Endowment alone in 1981. Corporate gifts are invested and, especially in times of recession, play an increasingly important role. “Fortunately at Davidson, we deal from a position of strength,” Daisley said.

Other Davidson donors include parents, friends, foundations, and churches. Davidson shares with Duke, Furman, and Johnson C. Smith Universities the distinction of a yearly grant from the J.B. Duke Endowment. Davidson has been entitled since 1924 to 5% of the income from the Duke Endowment. The fund provides approximately the equivalent of what the college receives annually from its own endowment, Melton said. Friends of the college may decide to donate real estate, books, or art to the college instead of money. There is, for instance, a Thomas Sully original hanging in the Rare Book Room of the library, there are new houses at the Lake Campus, and over $300,000 worth of prints and paintings which Davidson acquired from donors. Last year, Davidson received at least $4,000,000 from endowment income and gifts. In general, the figures climb yearly. How does Davidson compare to other schools when it comes to being “heavily endowed”? “Everything’s relative and I wouldn’t say ‘heavily,’” Melton admitted. Davidson could always use more to keep tuition costs down and to maintain a firmly balanced budget. However, “among liberal arts colleges, we’re fairly well taken care of,” he added.

Elizabeth Smiley ’84
DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 April 1982