» Dr. Cecil Weizenbaum, the visiting Reynolds lecturer, appeared in the 900 Room Wednesday and Thursday for talks concerning artificial
intelligence and the ethical and moral implications of our increasingly computerized society. He is currently Professor of Computer Science at
MIT (“the belly of the beast” as he once said) and he has authored a book entitled Computer Power and
Human Reason. He gained considerable notoriety for his part in developing the language analysis computer program ELIZA (honoring the Pygmalion
mythology in Eliza Doolittle)—a clever program which allows a computer to “dialogue” with a patient. Dr. Weizenbaum’s sessions here were
meant to be more discussion than lecture; he did not dwell on scholarly debates concerning artificial intelligence and his talks
weren’t particularly focused or quotable. The ideas he proffered were important and somewhat surprising considering the close association of his
name with certain advances in computer science.

Dr. Weizenbaum was born in Germany, but his family immigrated to this country in 1936, when he was 13. They
settled in Detroit, and he studied engineering at Wayne State University. His first chance for free experimentation in computers came
when General Electric opened their experimental laboratories in California and he was given a position with the freedom to pursue
his own research. He chose to research the possible application of computers to the behavioral sciences. In 1963, he joined
the faculty of MIT.

At MIT he developed ELIZA. The program was meant to be an experiment in language analysis, not a development in
psychotherapy. The psychotherapy mode of conversation was chosen because the computer would not need a wide information base—its comments could
be careful reflections of the operator’s comments. The program has been greatly ballyhooed by people in psychology and the computer-age
prophets-of-doom because it was almost frighteningly successful as a surrogate psychotherapist. For example, Dr. Weizenbaum’s secretary once asked him to
leave the room because she felt her session with ELIZA was private.

It is that point in the program which raises Dr. Weizenbaum's special concerns with the computer age, and in

~ Photo by Elizabeth Elkin ‘85
