Record Reviews

In a time when many of rock and roll’s working class pose as alienated this or mutant that, Joe “King”
Carrasco and the Crowns are more than happy to make fun, energetic music for the humans in the race. The
group’s third album, Synapse Gap, is an unpretentious, well-played collection of bouncy love songs. Consisting of Joe King’s clear, sonorous
guitar and yiping vocals; the driving rhythm of bassist Brad Kizer and drummer Dick Ross; and the magical keyboards and
vocal support of Kris Cummings; this Texas-based combo’s music is infectious, spreading the enjoyable “Austin shakes” wherever it’s heard.

Side A opens with a fast-paced dance-inducing song that accuses one of the participants of being “Imitation Class.” “Person-person” follows
as a new edition to the corpus of rock-and-roll phone calls. Joe calls some gal for a date, but at
the time she’s already set up for some bowling with Herman. Don't despair! Kris Cummings’s organ reigns down a solo
reminiscent of Ray Manzarek in “Light My Fire” and Joe regains control by song’s end, one color TV and stereo
richer. The next sounds heard from this record are lifted straight from the late Bob Marley’s “No Woman, No Cry,”
but after the quoted opening Joe earnestly delivers.

JOE “KING” CARRASCO & THE CROWNS Synapse Gap (Mundo Total)

which draws from Sting’s melodic work with the Police brings Side A to an exciting close.

Like the Police and B-52s, Joe King and his Crowns generate a great deal of musical energy through the interplay
of very basic melodies and rhythms. The songs here always reach a fullness with their solid vocal harmonics and the
ubiquitous siren of Kris Cummings’s organ.

Side B remains consistent with the free beat of its predecessor and is highlighted by the undeniable “Rip It Up,
Shake It Up.” This face opens with Joe’s possessive Speedy Gonzales voice, shrieking “Ai Ai Ai Ai Ai!” leading into
“Wanna Get that Feel (Again).” The album’s last tune, “Man Overboard,” is the record’s most ambiguous. It features a deeper
mix, and the vocal teamwork of Carrasco and Cummings make the song a Tex-Mex version of “Message in a Bottle.”
Falling overboard into this song’s strong rhythmic break provides a good end to this pleasure-cruise. Good vibes from deep in
the heart of Texas.

Todd Swofford

BARBER FOR MEN AND WOMEN

SMITH’S YOU NAME IT — WE'LL DO IT

FLOWERS IN PRECISION CUTTING FOR MEN AND WOMEN Cornelius, ph. 892-8856

BARBER SHOP 302 Smith Circle

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 20 April 1982
