Features

An Interview With Julian Bond

The First Annual Martin Luther King Lecturer

Question: In your lecture, you talked about the right to be free from economic worry; if such a right exists, on what principles is this based?

Answer: I take it to be an extension of the Constitution guaranteeing the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. I don’t take it as a guarantee that everybody has a right to be a millionaire, I don’t take it as a guarantee that everyone will be enormously wealthy—but I do take it as a right that every citizen in this country is guaranteed a floor, a lowest level under which he should not be expected to live. We are guaranteed under the right to the pursuit of happiness the right to live in a healthy environment, to be secure in the workplace, to be free, generally, from as much of life’s travail as possible. I take it as a given that that is the purpose of the government... to extend to me and mine and those about me all these protections.

Q: Does that floor change with the standard of living? That is to say, if the standard of living in this country is high then should we assume that the floor raises?

A: I hate to place it on standard of living as much as some other measure. For example, if the median income in the country were $20,000 a year, I don’t take it that everyone ought to be guaranteed that amount annually, but I do take it that all of us ought to be guaranteed a safety net through which we cannot slip.

Q: And you feel that the Reagan administration has not provided this “safety net?”

A: No. I think the Reagan administration has destroyed the safety net. A safety net which, though niggardly in some parts of the country, and rather munificent in others, when rendered asunder allows thousands of people to slip through. Vast levels of unemployment, cutbacks on unemployment insurance and compensation, and the relatively minor federal layoffs have just created a new class of poor people in this country. Although you cannot lay the blame for Detroit’s decline in auto sales at the foot of the Reagan administration, I think you can blame the Reagan administration for some of the concurrent social tragedies that are happening in that part of the country. His cutbacks in unemployment insurance and compensation have had a devastating effect—families torn asunder, people having to sell their homes and everything they have, just to make it, and being forced to migrate in large numbers to other parts of the country just to secure some employment...

Q: One of the issues with which many black students, particularly at Davidson, are concerned, is the Reagan cuts in educational aid. It has been argued that those cuts, in effect, are going to create a two-class educational system: one of the rich, and one of the poor. Does that argument strike you to be generally true?

A: I think that’s true, although I don’t think it quite that stark. For example, my alma mater is Morehouse College, one of the better endowed black colleges—but about eighty-seven percent of the students at this college receive some form of financial aid which is federally sponsored. The president of the college estimates that as many as one-third of the current student body will not come back in September. The question is, where will these people go to school? Some of them will go to state colleges where the tuition is a little less, some of them will have to go to junior colleges in their own communities where the tuition is even less. So, a group of people who aspire to one level of education is being forced to step back a level. One of the effects is to create a more rigid class system in American education; I think there’s a class system now. A certain kind of person already goes to Princeton, while a certain type of person goes to Alabama State. However, I think the Reagan administration has made it more difficult for a class of people to achieve a college education and the benefits that are normally associated with it.

Q: I would imagine from your other comments that you would hold strong feelings about individual freedom. In that context, how do you view the issue of abortion and the role of the Supreme Court in that area?

A: I think it is an individual right. I think it’s the woman’s individual right to decide what to do with her body. I may have moral or philosophical qualms about it, but I don’t think it’s my place to force those qualms on the larger world about me. I generally have agreed with the Supreme Court’s decisions. It is disturbing to me,

Continued on page 10