English Composition. The Press published the Mecklenburg Gazette from 1977 through 1979. Priscilla Hogan, a native of Charleston and graduate
of Winthrop College, is “the boss” of the shop, however, according to Professor Hogan.

The idea of printing first impressed itself upon Moreland Hogan through his grandfather’s own business which involved the printing process
to some degree. Professor Hogan prides himself in producing attractive and enduring books, in creating something of value. In the
process, he renders a service both to the reader and book collector and to the local author for whose work
widespread circulation is not yet feasible nor, perhaps, desirable. Hogan realizes that a small business such as his is not
likely to amass a fortune, yet he finds it particularly lucrative in means other than lucre. Perhaps Davidsonians, whatever their
level of education, should consider more seriously their options to employment within large corporations. Opportunities to enrich the community while
making a living do exist; one merely has to create them as Moreland Hogan has done with Briarpatch Press. Creative
thinking, by the way, is a basic aim of a liberal arts education which many of us conveniently ignore for
its supposed lack of financial security... perhaps.

by Linda Hulburt

ORIGINAL

HEIDELBERG
EINFARBEN

OFFSET
BUCHDRUCK S&S

40:87em 15%°122%:

series Na

Welcome freshmen, upperclassmen

Natural Foods • Cheeses • Wines • Imported Beers
Coffees • Teas • Gourmet Kitchen Items

128 S. Main St. • P.O. Box 807 Davidson, NC 28036 • 704-892-7521

Takeout sandwiches on homemade pita bread!

Continued from page 1

any more explanation from the administration than there is now. Secondly, because members of the Committee are bound to confidentiality,
they cannot be held accountable for their decisions. Lastly, he feels that recommendations are best made within the departments concerned,
as is done now, because professors are most knowledgeable in their own field. He finds it ironic that a candidate’s
departmental colleagues would be excluded from the Committee.

Dr. Abbott said he felt that the process would be fairer and more democratic if the decisions were made by
more people. He said, “I feel that decisions of this kind should not be made by the President and the
Vice-president alone but with the help of the faculty as well.”

Dr. Stell also felt that the proposal would make the decision process more fair. He said, “There may have been
an appearance of unfairness in the past, but as to whether the decisions were unfair or not is hard to
say.” Having a faculty committee would make it clearer, at least from a faculty standpoint, who is making the decision,
he said.

Another concern of Dr. Holland is that “confidentiality on such a committee can’t be kept airtight at a small school
like Davidson. It is impossible to expect that there will be no leaks.”

History Professor David Shi, who supported the proposal three years ago, also voiced concern about the problem of confidentiality in
a small school. He said that members of the Committee would be well-known and in a small school where faculty
members come in contact with each other all the time it could cause problems. However, he also said that he
supports the measure “theoretically and ideally” and he feels that as the Committee becomes the standard rather than the exception,
the changes would come about slowly and deliberately. Dr. Stell took a similar view, saying that such problems are inescapable
and, indeed, are already the case because people already know how the department head and other members of the faculty
feel about them.

Dr. Holland disagrees. He feels that the committee will cause a judgmental atmosphere among the faculty, because old members will
have to be constantly judging new ones. He grants that judgments are necessary, but he feels that this is better
handled in the departments. “The Committee,” he said, “will change the relationship between members of the faculty. Honest openness is
liable to suffer, and the atmosphere gets very political.” Dr. Stell does not foresee this. “The people who are opposed
[to the Committee] think that bad things will happen because of it and there is no evidence that this will
be the case.

In any case, though, Dr. Holland points out that the final tenure decisions are always “a gray area. There is
no right or wrong. It’s always a judgment call.”

- Jeffrey Holland ‘84

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982 47
