What was Davidson like before beer, girls, and asteroids?

Inside the house at 319 South Street sits Edgar Linker with his wife Grace, each reminiscing and passing the hours away. And inside sits a long-to-be-remembered part of Davidson College.

For thirty-three years until he retired in 1972, Edgar “Cop” Linker was Davidson’s night watchman. He was responsible for making sure all went well around campus after hours. His job included enforcing rules of Davidson College of old. That meant no alcohol and no girls.

Did Cop ever come across Davidson gentlemen with alcohol? “Oh, yes,” he says with a grin. “A number of times they’d be coming in late at night whooping and yelling and not feeling anything. Everything would be coming along fine and then they’d see me and they’d take off. I never ran after them. I just let them go.”

And the girls? They were often a problem. “I used to say we wouldn’t have any trouble on campus until the girls came,” he says. He remembers when, if a car full of girls came driving through the campus, the first student who saw them would yell “Fire!” Students who heard the code word would run out of their dorms and try to throw water on rule-breaking trespassers.

On the “big weekends,” the girls came legally. Those were the times when Cop had to check the soccer fields. “They weren’t supposed to park out there like that. Lots of things going on that shouldn’t be. It wasn’t any trouble to me — they’d see me and take off.”

“One time I was driving down on the field,” he recalls, “and I nearly ran over four couples lying out there in the grass.”

Pranks were a bit more creative in the past. Linker came across plenty of them, including the mixing of honey, dirt, and sand and the placing of it in front of doors. Water fights were more common then, too. “I’ve seen water running down the steps of Belk Dorm just like a river,” he says.

Linker understands that such behavior is not quite as prevalent now. “It seems to me that students now are more mature in their thinking or something,” he says.

During his 33 years, Cop was more than just their night watchman. He was a friend to all. There were students who would go to him for advice rather than going to someone higher up. “Most people regarded Cop as a good friend,” says Will Terry, who was both a student and an administrator when Linker was here.

“They respected his judgment,” says Mrs. Linker. She remembers one boy who asked Cop whether he should get married. Another student left his quarreling family at home and spent the Christmas holiday with Mr. Linker in the security building.

In 1952, Cop Linker became a campus hero. One night he spotted a suspicious car and recorded its license number. The next morning the college discovered that someone had gone on a burglary spree during the night. The next night someone burglarized Clemson. Police used Linker’s license tip to track the suspect. Georgia police surrounded the man’s house in Atlanta, and in the burglar’s attempt to escape, he shot and killed an officer. He was never tried here. He was convicted and electrocuted in Georgia, and all because of an attentive Davidson night watchman.

In 1972, at age 75, Cop Linker retired. “It came on so sudden,” says Mrs. Linker, “he didn’t really have time to regret it.” Will Terry says, “We lost a real friend — the college moved into a new era.”

It has been ten years since Cop retired, and the Linkers will be celebrating their sixtieth anniversary next November. “The Lord’s been mighty good to us,” Mrs. Linker says. “We’re together yet — if we can just stay together. I tell him ‘be careful’ because if he falls and gets a broken bone and has to go into the hospital, well, then we’ll be separated the rest of our lives. It’s not a very happy thought, but it’s something you have to face.”

Linker reassures her. “I’m gonna try to keep on the optimistic side of things,” he says.

They are living life a day at a time. They’ve had a few problems, but they’ve worked them out. They spend their days on the porch of their cozy white house, Linker reading, and Mrs. Linker creating Christmas ornaments.

He’s not working here anymore. But he’s still here in the hearts of many who remember him.

Thurston Hatcher '85

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 7 May 1982