Opinions

A Reply to John Siman

Van Beck on Buckley

Perhaps William F. Buckley had John Siman in mind when he said: “The irresponsibility of the ritualistic liberals is about
as newsworthy as the sunrise.” The issue here, of course, is Mr. Siman’s irresponsible attack on Buckley, who spoke in
Love Auditorium on Wednesday, April 21. Mr. Siman’s remarks shouldn’t be dignified by a reply, but I couldn’t resist.

Mr. Siman’s piece, entitled “On Buckley’s Speech: Avarice with a Human Face and a Brooks Brothers Suit,” lays siege to
William Buckley’s motivation and integrity. He claims that Buckley’s libertarianism and rhetorical prowess only serve to conceal an inherent belief
in the natural privileges of wealth. To quote Mr. Siman, “The trouble with Bill Buckley’s libertarianism is that he doesn’t
believe it. Not deep down. What Bill Buckley believes in au fond are the natural privileges of wealth.” Mr. Siman
also hangs a plutocratic label on Buckley.

The problem here is that William F. Buckley is not a 20th-century version of Edmund Burke and doesn’t advocate government
by the wealthy. Mr. Siman had clumsily drawn these conclusions from Buckley’s speech at Davidson. Buckley didn’t address the natural
privileges of wealth or who should govern, but rather discrimination against “wealthy” citizens and the direction democratic government should take
regarding intervention. Edmund Burke’s writing contained a strong element of inegalitarianism with reference to the socio-political rights of the aristocracy—a
tenet Mr. Siman attributes to Buckley. Buckley assumed rather an egalitarian position in criticizing the heavily progressive income tax. He
contended that progressive taxation is (1) unfair and discriminatory, and (2) inefficient. I'll defer to Mr. Siman on the first
point, due to its abstract, open-ended nature, but cite Buckley on the second.

William F. Buckley views taxation in a typically realistic, precise fashion. In Four Reforms he calls for marked tax reform
to increase upward mobility for all classes and maintains that the lower middle class shoulders the heaviest burden of U.S.
tax policy. Buckley notes that the very rich have special privileges, loopholes, while the very poor are strangled by bureaucracy
and inflation. He calls for adoption of the Friedman Plan which would (1) eliminate all personal deductions, (2) set a
uniform tax rate around 20 percent on all income, and (3) double the exemption rate in recognition of inflation. Such
reform would result in revenue equal to that produced by current tax policy. The gist of Buckley’s proposed reform centers
on his desire for increased upward mobility for all classes and the elimination of governmental tax restraint on such mobility.

Quite obviously, it is difficult to distinguish whether Buckley’s conservative fiscal views were completely ingrained before he attempted an intelligent
defense of such views or stances and vice versa. Or, stated a slightly different way, are Buckley’s economic views simply
self-serving or does he truly believe in such methods in an intellectual sense? It seems that one could respond either
way after studying Buckley’s work. His obvious preferences for free-market capitalism and “trickle down” economics suggest the rather narrow former
approach whereas his discussion of evidence regarding the tax burden in Four Reforms implies a more respectable intellectual approach and
acceptance. The point is, one simply cannot say that Buckley doesn’t sincerely believe his espoused libertarian conservative views on the
basis of one speech and possibly a few columns or issues of the National Review.

Mr. Siman makes this mistake. I would consider his rather simpleminded motivational analysis did he base such dogmatism on Buckley’s
work, which includes “On The Right,” God And Man At Yale, McCarthy And His Enemies, The Committee and Its Critics,
The Jeweller’s Eye, The Governor Listeth, Inveighing We Will Go, A Hymnal: The Controversial Arts, Up From Liberalism, Rumbles Left
And Right, Did You Ever See A Dream Walking: American Conservative Thought In The Twentieth Century, Four Reforms, three bestselling
novels, “Firing Line,” his New York City mayoral candidacy, and the National Review. But to say William F. Buckley is
avaricious and doesn’t sincerely believe in libertarian conservatism on the basis of one speech is preposterous!

Mr. Siman cannot intelligently refute Buckley’s propositions of April 21 and instead critiques Buckley by referring to intent. Mr. Siman
claims that Buckley is guilty of bad intent, despite the fact that his actions may be right. But intent, purpose,
motivation, etc., are not easily pinpointed. Mr. Siman pinpoints Buckley’s intent altogether too easily. How can one really decide whether
Buckley’s conservative views are solely reactionary and simply ingrained or whether such views are well-founded intellectual conclusions? Although the answer
probably lies with a reasonable median, one could never be certain about such a balance nor could Buckley extricate himself
from this “ingrained, preconceived notion versus solid intellectual justification” dilemma. But, maybe this somewhat rhetorical dilemma/debate is not of crucial
importance when considering Buckley. Perhaps with William F. Buckley, the so-called “Lion of Conservatism,” it may not be overly significant
or possible to understand exactly why he believes as he does, but rather, simply that he does believe as he
does with few doubts—which is exactly the impression one gets from reading Buckley’s work and examining his career. The what,
as opposed to the why, of Buckley’s conservatism is primary. Mr. Siman attempted to deal with the why of Buckley’s
conservatism and he failed. Miserably, I might add.

Van Beck ‘82

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 April 1982
