Well, it is certainly good to be back in print. As everyone must know, we have been justifiably ousted in
past weeks by our beloved leader and several other members of the Hitler youth. However, now that Boho has returned
safely home, we can continue with our business.

It has become somewhat of an institution here at Davidson that upon entering the Union building, one must pick up
an Announcement Sheet to read while waiting for your food to arrive in the Snack Bar (excuse me, Union Café).
Well, we here at DB & SS have comprised our own Announcement Sheet for the coming week that could prove
quite helpful. Normally, we would write the Honor Code on the top of the page but our beloved ex-leader, John,
says it does not work anyway, so we will skip it. (Incidentally, since we last appeared in the paper, we
have learned that defective Simon has moved on to greener pastures and now has uncovered the true motives behind the
Watergate break-in. It seems Simon has learned that the entire Watergate affair was a mere ruse to keep the country’s
attention off a true scandal here in Davidson. It seems that early in 1972, two Davidson students were involved in
a photocopy fraud here in the library that netted each participant over two dollars a year. To avoid national acclaim,
the Dean’s office got in touch with President Nixon who agreed to the Watergate affair to keep the heat off
Davidson. As a sidelight, just last week John tracked down both these villains and recovered the missing four dollars and
thirty-seven cents.)

FRIDAY, February 12:

10:00 A.M. — In the gallery, two of Davidson’s outstanding scholars, Stokes Peeples and Chip Hoover, will compete in the
First Annual Pillsbury “Cram Off.” Both men will each be given ten minutes to take all three of their exams
for the term, with the winner being determined by the highest cumulative score from the three exams. The winner receives
a weekend alone with Davidson student Hill Stockton to see if project Head Start can really work. Also, by this
academic charity, Davidson can fulfill its obligation to this year’s national academic project, Learning for the Needy.

12:00 P.M. — Davidson College’s Pre-Med Committee will sponsor a speech by Davidson’s own Edwin Smith entitled, “Why You Do
Not Need a Social Life in College.” Mr. Smith, a longtime bore, will attempt to show all college students that
college can be fun without alcohol, girls, or going outside.

1:00 P.M. — In the Depot, S.L.O.B. will be sponsoring their weekly luncheon to raise money for those who do
not have enough energy for personal hygiene. Also, do not forget to sponsor someone on the annual S.L.O.B. walk this
Saturday. For details, call either Outten, Lafferty House, or Thomas Tankersley.

3:00 P.M. — After reading (or looking at) this week’s issue of Sports Illustrated, the entire campus is invited to
a rally outside of Chambers with the theme “Got My Money Back From Kenya!” (sponsored by the Union Cleavage Committee).

5:00 P.M. — Davidson’s Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa will sponsor a speech by Senior Mott McDonald entitled, “It’s Never
Too Late to Develop a Personality.” Mr. McDonald will speak in the Conversation Pit and will be glad to answer
any and all questions.

6:00 P.M. — The Union Cohabitation Committee is sponsoring an all-campus “sneak-home” for all of you who followed up the
Disco with a private party of your own. Those of you residing off-campus had better shoot for 5:30.

7:00 P.M. — Mike Goode and the Union Games Committee are sponsoring a “Weekend Aboard the Titanic” inside the College
Union. Mike and Danny have gone to great lengths to bring in real icebergs for the weekend. Mike encourages all
students to participate, with a special preference shown for those with a history of mental instability — or those just
fed up with life.

8:00 P.M. — Rusk House will combine with ATO to hold Davidson’s initial Waffle Cocktail Hour. Those happy-go-lucky chefs down
at the World Bizarre will be happy to help out all students who leave Rusk with the munchies.

9:00 P.M. — The Dean’s Office along with the Union Board will hold a discussion to explain why all the
water has been turned off on campus. It seems a few Davidson students saw fit to drink what appears to
be a great deal of water and then trample some grass out behind the baseball field. So, for the next
five days, no water will be served on campus. Interested students may meet at the Commons at nine.

11:00 P.M. — Davidson will not allow an 11 o’clock due to the new Noise Ordinance passed by the City
Council. All clocks must therefore stop at 10 p.m. and resume at 8:00 a.m.

SMITH’S FLOWERS
302 Smith Circle
Cornelius, ph. 892-8856

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 12 February 1982
