A Philosophic Appraisal of the Conservative Camp

Initially, I would take this opportunity to agree with the penetrating, realistic thought of Bill Bargman, whose sagacious defense of
free market capitalism a week ago sets a “conservative” precedent which is indeed difficult to follow. Nevertheless, in the wake
of Steve Soud’s piece regarding the New Right, an intellectual appraisal of the “conservative” camp seems in order.

Any concise characterization of American conservative thought is enigmatic at best and totally confusing at worst; one cannot synthesize or
categorize conservatism as a political movement in anything less than a complete dissertation. The movement by its very nature is
fraught with paradoxes, contradictions, general ambiguity, and most importantly, division. For example, the nature of the “conservative” label itself presents
problems in the American context. The term connotes an emphasis on tradition and the past, but where should the conservative
look in United States history for a viable heritage? To generalize, the basic flow of U.S. history evolves in a
liberal direction with reference to the trend toward increased popular participation and historical events such as the Revolution or the
framing of the Declaration of Independence. John Diggins, author of Up From Communism, comments, “Knowledge of the American past, however,
is precisely the paradox of American conservatism.” (An alternative emphasis would be individual statesmen or Europeans such as Edmund Burke,
but there is no consensus regarding statesmen and Burkean thought can hardly be forced on the American context.)

Or, consider the fact that 20th Century conservatism is essentially 19th Century “classic liberalism” with its emphasis on free markets,
individualism, private property, limited government, and self-reliance. Another paradox surfaces when one notices that many notable post-World War II conservatives
were of a leftist posture earlier in their careers. Several former left-wingers have even found a journalistic home at William
F. Buckley, Jr.’s National Review. Examples include: former Communist Whittaker Chambers who wrote Confessions of a Middle Class Radical, former
Young Communist League member Frank Meyer who has served as literary editor for Buckley’s journal, and repentant Trotskyite James Burnham
who is a regular columnist for the National Review.

The upshot of this verbose introduction is that the nature of American conservative thought is problematic and somewhat difficult to
grasp. More importantly, however, I would like to consider the principal divisions within the conservative camp and point out that
one can hardly place any and all conservatives beneath an anti-intellectual, fundamentalist, dogmatic label. Neo-conservatives or those of the New
Right are but one of three major divisions within American conservatism and hardly represent a homogeneous political movement. Far-right extremists
and libertarian conservatives form the balance of the American Right. For some odd reason, extremists, e.g., The John Birch Society,
and neo-conservatives are representative of conservatism in the public eye, to the exclusion of libertarian conservatives who proceed from a
more intellectual base.

Libertarian conservatives emerged as a flame of laissez-faire individualism in the post-World War II period. George Nash terms this period
the “Revolt of the Libertarians,” with reference to the fact that 19th-Century “classic liberalism” was revitalized by libertarian thinkers. Libertarian
conservatives directly opposed and oppose the welfare state measures of the New Deal period and the continuing trend toward collectivization
at the hands of a federal bureaucracy. Buckley obviously recognized this trend when he founded the National Review in 1955.
He stated in his opening editorial that “The National Review stands athwart history, yelling stop, at a time when no
one is inclined to do so, or to have much patience with those who so urge it.” An emphasis on
individual freedom, anti-collectivism, and/or anti-statism distinguishes libertarian thinkers from neo-conservatives and extremists.In addition to the fact that libertarians do not
stress the importance of a conservation tradition or heritage in the vein of Russell Kirk and many neo-conservatives, paradoxically, libertarians
gained their principal impetus, if not heritage, from Europeans. Academics such as Henry Simons and Frank Knight of the University
of Chicago School of Economics and journalists such as Henry Hazlitt, John Chamberlain, Garet Garrett, Frank Chodorov, and later Buckley,
John Dos Passos, James Burnham, and Max Eastman were sparked by the work of two Austrians, Friedrich Hayek and Ludwig
von Mises. Both upheld the principles of “classic liberalism,” and it was the work of Hayek and von Mises which
fueled American libertarian conservatism after World War II.

In 1944, Hayek published "The Road to Serfdom" in which he discussed the alarming international trend toward government planning of
the economy and the consequences of such planning for individual liberty. Hayek’s principal thesis centers on his belief that “Planning
leads to dictatorship” and that the direction of economic activity inevitably leads to “suppression of freedom.” He proposed individualism and/or
“classic liberalism” as an alternative to such statism in the economic sphere. Von Mises’ most important works, "Omnipotent Government," "Bureaucracy,"
and "Human Action," were published in 1944 and 1949 respectively and were more extreme than Hayek’s work. Von Mises adopted
a stance totally devoted to laissez-faire capitalism. For von Mises, the alternatives for government were simple: capitalism or statism, or
capitalism or chaos, and "Human Action" has often been termed the “Capitalist Manifesto.”

Primarily the work of Hayek and von Mises, in addition to individual reflection on New Deal policies and the Socialist/Communist
examples of the world scene, reawakened “classic liberalism” or libertarian conservatism in the U.S. Initially, libertarian conservatives represented little more
than a scattered lot of journalists, economists, and educators with some philosophical unity centering on a profound distaste for growing
statism and a desire to safeguard individual liberty and laissez-faire capitalism. Libertarian conservatives were, however, in a position to channel
their ideological positions through the media and therefore able to achieve more than simply the status of a meaningless intellectual
flank of conservatism.

While libertarians stress laissez-faire individualism, neo-conservatives emphasize first and foremost the values of orthodox Christianity. Neo-conservatives are most concerned about
the ethical and spiritual values of society and accent the importance of tradition, e.g., Russell Kirk. The principal issue dividing
the New Right and libertarian conservatism relates to the state and intervention. Libertarians remain opposed to statism in any sphere,
particularly that of economics, whereas neo-conservatives are not philosophically opposed to state intervention, provided such action is vented in an
appropriate direction in terms of ethical/moral considerations. The extreme Right can be characterized by mentioning three principles or stances which
are inherent to the philosophy of the far Right; that is, such conservatives proceed from an (1) anti-communist, (2) anti-intellectual,
and (3) evangelized fundamentalist perspective.

Having briefly discussed libertarian conservatism and highlighted neo-conservatism and the far Right, one might comment, “so what, what is the
crux of your conservative verbosity?” Simply stated, liberals cannot brand each and every individual to the ideological Right as nothing
but dogmatic fundamentalists as previous articles in the Davidsonian have stated (and on the Left!) who seem indoctrinated to a
certain point of view, so much so that they couldn’t be expected to explain or intellectually defend their views and
values any more than a well-read observer could be expected to mistake Cauley’s Davidsonian for Buckley’s National Review. But, one
must not confuse persons who have considered examples on the international and domestic fronts and examined well-informed sources in forming
a socio-political point of view with such mindless ideologues!

Van Beck ’82

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982 19
