THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXII, Number 3

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Friday, 8 October 1982

SPC Considers Semester Plan

Semester Planning Committee receives mixed reactions

The Semester Planning Committee’s proposal has received mixed reactions from both faculty and students.

When the issue of changing our calendar to a semester schedule emerged five years ago, Professor David Kaylor’s informal poll
revealed a 50-50 split among the faculty. A recent Davidsonian poll (see related article) showed that 55% of the students
like the current system, while 45% prefer another.

Even though there is considerable interest in adopting a new system, Semester Planning Committee Chairman Sam Maloney believes this will
not happen. “Given our faculty’s track record of voting down major issues,” says Dr. Maloney, “You [those in opposition to
a change] have nothing to fear.”

“I’m in favor of the semester system,” says Maloney, adding, “The national movement is toward the semester system.”

A change would align Davidson with most schools. A survey of 2,472 universities compiled by C. James Quann and Associates
shows that out of six calendar categories, 48% of the institutions use the Early Semester System (the system the SPC
has proposed).

Sociology professor Dr. Peter Venturelli also favors the semester plan, claiming that the current schedule of five-day-a-week classes “is very
high schoolish” and that under the semester system students become “more mature” by relying on their “independent initiative.”

Chemistry department Chairman and Associate Dean of the Faculty J. N. Burnett prefers the current schedule. “I’m opposed to any
version of the semester system,” says Burnett, “until we say what’s wrong with the current system.”

Due to limited lab and studio space, the Chemistry, Biology, Psychology, Physics, and Art departments would have unusual difficulty making
the switch to semesters. “We’ve spent the last ten years adapting to the term system,” says Burnett. “We'd have to
redesign all of our classes.”

Registrar Richard C. Burts says he is also a “resister to the semester proposal,” even though it would reduce registration
periods to two per year. The Registrar’s office has recently hooked up with the computer system, which would make transition
by next year very difficult, according to Burts.

Burts admits that there is “nothing inherently wrong with the semester system.” He simply resists the change. Burts says that
it took six years to establish a “consistent pattern” after a switch from semesters to the current term system, and
he is “reluctant to see that kind of transition take place again.”

Others, like Political Science professor Mary Thornberry, feel that the benefits outweigh the pains of transition. She believes a semester
system

Continued on page 9

SPC Releases Report

The Semester Planning Committee has released its report on the possible adoption of a semester schedule appropriate for Davidson College.

The Committee held an open meeting for faculty on 5 October and an open meeting for the students on 6
October. The SPC will officially present its proposal at the 19 October faculty meeting.

College President Sam Spencer appointed the SPC last May to study the issue after a poll conducted by Dr. Richard
Bernard found that a majority of the faculty would like to examine the semester system. The Committee has met eight
times since then.

Religion Professor Dr. Sam Maloney is the chairman of the SPC, and its members include professors Bernard, Jean Cornell, Hansford
Epes, Peter Krentz, Mary Thornberry, and John Williamson.

Davidson adopted its current term system in 1969 after more than one hundred years of semesters. The SPC believes that
Davidson can switch back to semesters by the 1983-84 school year, even though the system would not be fully operative
until 1987.

The faculty, upon consulting students, President Spencer, and the Board of Trustees, must all approve the proposal before it becomes
effective.

The following is a summary of SPC’s proposal and suggested calendar:

1. Each semester will be 15 weeks, 14 weeks of classes plus one of exams.

2. Classes will meet Monday-Wednesday-Friday for 50 minutes, or Tuesday-Thursday for 75 minutes, or MTWTF.

3. The graduation requirement will be 32 courses.

4. The “normal” teaching load will be 5 courses per year.

5. The “normal” student course load will be 4 courses per semester.

Continued on page 9
