cy: P, : : i 4 yok ho - : » Fh < $ j f lg ry, i. ‘ ‘ oi 5 { "4 c ’ aheooguyes ter, 4 a ny } cy £ < emir ry aes "of a. oe it Veaer concert to Honor | ‘Stravir oF OF NOV Se inet > ‘centennial

The hundredth anniversary of Igor Stravinsky's birth will be honored at a vespers concert at 9:00 pm Monday (10 May) at Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The all-Stravinsky program will feature his octet for wind instruments, directed by William Lawing, assistant professor of music at Davidson College. Also included in the program will be four Russian peasant songs for women's voices, sung by Janet Grigsby, Elisabeth Davis, Marsha Summers, Ellen Rolland, Carol Barber, Janie Cain, Cynthia Lewis, and Zhenia Motosan. Eugene Kavadlo, principal clarinetist with the Charlotte Symphony, will perform three pieces for solo clarinet. The closing selection will be the Mass for mixed chorus and double wind quintet, featuring the Davidson Concert Choir under the direction of Vladimir Morosan. The concert, which is free and open to the public, is sponsored by the Davidson College department of music and will be broadcast live over WDAV radio, 89.9 FM.

Was | wins appointment

Dr. William K. Mahony has been appointed Davidson’s first MacArthur Assistant Professor of Religion. He received the appointment through a $300,000 grant awarded to Davidson by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation of Chicago. The grant aims to attract promising faculty at the College. Mahony will use the appointment to teach in the area of world religions. Mahony said that the College’s commitment to teaching and its interdisciplinary studies influenced his decision to accept the position. Davidson has a strong religion department and an impressive number of graduates who work as preachers, missionaries, and religious educators. Mahony’s own credentials are indeed worthy of the grant. A Williams College graduate, he received a master’s degree from Yale University Divinity School in 1976 and awaits his Ph.D. from the University of Chicago Divinity School this spring. He has been editorial assistant for the journal History of Religions, and an editorial consultant to the Encyclopedia Britannica. He has done extensive study in the areas of Buddhism and Hinduism, and his writings include 20 entries on Asian religions for the Encyclopedia Britannica and several articles for the International Encyclopedia of Religion to appear through the Free Press. “Mahony is exactly the sort of outstanding junior scholar that the MacArthur Professorship was instructed to attract,” Vice-president Price Zimmerman said. “We are most grateful to the foundation for including Davidson in the list of outstanding liberal arts colleges that received capital grants.”

Elizabeth Smiley "84

Belk possible Republican gubernatorial candidate

Former Charlotte Mayor John M. Belk, a Davidson graduate of 1943, member of the Davidson Board of Trustees, and a lifelong Democrat, has been asked to run as a Republican in the 1984 North Carolina Governor’s race. Charlotte Lawyer James Cole, claiming to represent the State GOP, says that he contacted Belk on April 27 about the possibility of running for governor. “I went to John Belk and we had a very private meeting,” said Cole. “He was pleased, very humbled, very happy about it.” Cole said Belk would make a decision by mid-June. Belk is the president of Belk Stores Services. Cole said Belk mustconsider his business commitments. “He’s trying to resolve a couple of things about his situation,” said Cole. Belk’s only reply to the offer: “I think they’ve got a good party.” N.C. Republican Party Chairman David Flaherty said he knew of the meeting between Belk and Cole but that the GOP did not initiate it. “Jim Cole was representing Jim Cole,” he said. Belk expressed an interest in running for the 1984 Governor’s race last year. But he has not publicly indicated a deeper interest since then. Speculation about Belk’s possible candidacy centers around his feud with Charlotte mayor Eddie Knox, a highly probable Democratic candidate for governor. Belk and Knox have disagreed on downtown revitalization and the naming of the new airport. (Information and quotes contained in this article were taken from the Charlotte Observer.)

David Resnik ’85

Stell Receives NEH Grant

On Tuesday evening, Lance Stell, associate professor of philosophy, lectured on group rights versus individual rights. The talk was especially appropriate at this time, because he has recently been awarded a fellowship to study the same topic at the National Humanities Center during the academic year 1982-83. Stell’s research will examine what he considers the dangerous increase in the claims of interest groups to rights which entitle them to proportional representation in legislatures, and to substantial shares of the desirable positions in the job market. Stell believes that only individuals have basic rights, and that “the potential impact of this shift toward recognition of group rights rather than individual rights is massive.” He asserts that rights provide protection for the individual against the fluctuating voice of the majority. “Because an individual has a right to express a political opinion even when unpopular, the law protects him or her despite the fact that this minority opinion would surely be silenced if collective considerations were all that mattered,” he said.

Stell also maintains that an emphasis on group rights tends to underscore social differences rather than diminish them. “We used to think, rightly I believe, that a person’s race or sex was irrelevant for deciding whether some political burden was properly imposed or benefit properly provided. Now, somehow, many have come full-circle to the view that these traits are a ground of merit or demerit,” he said. Stell wants to demonstrate current legislative and judicial inconsistency with respect to group rights, and plans to compile his research into a book tentatively titled Rights, Groups, and Individualism. Stell, a Hope College graduate, has taught at Davidson since 1976.

Davidson College will award over three hundred degrees to graduating seniors and three honorary degrees to distinguished citizens at this year’s Commencement ceremonies. The ceremonies will take place in front of the Dana Science Building at 10:15 A.M. on Sunday, May 22. In accordance with tradition and for the sake of expedience, there will be no major address during graduation. North Carolina Governor James Hunt already presented this year’s main address at Spring Convocation. Ms. Jonnie A. McLeod, a professor of Human Development and Learning at UNC-C, will receive an honorary Doctor of Science degree. Dr. William A. Boyce (class of ’40), head of the Section on Urology at Bowman Gray School of Medicine at Wake Forest University, will receive an honorary Doctor of...