- Record reviews with Jon Glance

Black Uhuru
Red

Reggae has come a long way since Millie Small scored a hit with “My Boy Lollipop” back in the ’60s, but it has remained the most stunning example of a self-contained pop music form. Seemingly immune from short-lived trends, the genre has kept its best traits of heavy rhythm, soulful singing, intricate percussion, and often political/religious lyrics. The debut album by Black Uhuru (or Black Freedom if you speak Swahili) presents an affirmation of these generic traits while at the same time adding the new creativity possible with the “dub” studio effects.

The group Black Uhuru basically consists of the three singers Michael Rose, Puma, and Duckie Simpson, with the lead male voice backed up by a harmonizing female and falsetto male voice. The lead singer Michael Rose has a very expressive voice evocative of Bob Marley’s and an accent which lends an air of authenticity to the songs. The Rastafarian slang employed in the lyrics also is both authentic and exotic for most Western ears. An example of the lyrics from one of the songs, entitled “Puff She Puff,” speaks of introspection with: “Many a time when I check my lifestyle/A been a living in another/Footstep of another man/I no man man a failure.” The local patois is kept from being obtrusive by the relaxed delivery, which floats the listener away on the rhythms.

Although the lyrics are very good on this LP, the music is truly outstanding. The vocal trio is backed up by the Island Records studio musicians, who are appearing on about every third Jamaican album today. These musicians include Sly Dunbar (drums), Robbie Shakespeare (bass), Sticky Thompson (percussion), and Mikey Chung (guitar). These musicians have previously appeared on albums by performers from Peter Tosh to Ian Dury, and their instrumental excellence produces a groove which can be compared favorably with the best reggae recorded. Near the end of most of the selections on this album, the various parts are broken down with a tasteful use of some dub effects which often produces a trance-like rhythm. The excellent production work by Dunbar and Shakespeare shows, and their genius may be easily heard. In addition, while some reggae becomes tiresome after repeated listenings, Black Uhuru holds up well. The high praise for this album is sincere — the album has been on my turntable for the last three months. “Red” stands out as an excellent debut album for this new group, and should appeal to both neophytes to music from Jamaica as well as the hard-core lovers of the dread beat. The eight smooth but hard-hitting musical vignettes on this LP show some of the best of the more mainstream Reggae style.

Prince of the City

A review

Pop Film
Prince of the City —
Director: Sidney Lumet
Producer: Burt Harris
Rated R

This Friday night Sidney Lumet’s critically acclaimed Prince of the City makes its Davidson debut in Love Auditorium. The film’s protagonist is Danny Ciello, a New York City narcotics detective (played by Treat Williams) who works with federal investigators in uncovering high-level legal corruption.

Danny Ciello is torn apart in a struggle for power and an attempt to vindicate himself for his own guilt, but the movie’s emphasis is not upon a lone hero in a world of crooks. There are no real heroes, just survivors of the situation, survivors of guilt, corruption, and an unattainable need on Danny's part to redeem himself through busting high-level payoffs. The plot is really the movie’s strong point, and as it weaves a maze of grey and black complexity the viewer anxiously grasps for something more concrete, safe, or secure than is provided. The anxiety one feels stems from an inability to judge total guilt or innocence in any of the examples of corruption presented. This inability creates a questioning of the existence of a distinction between right and wrong. One begins to ask if, without this distinction, justice can really prevail.

Treat Williams does an outstanding job portraying Ciello at his emotional breaking point; however, the character role itself does not reach the depths that could be explored in such a thoughtful and psychologically explosive film. The other characters, however, show little passion and seem deadpan until the film's climax. The minor portrayals of prostitutes, junkies, and pushers are perhaps the best examples of acting under Lumet’s direction.

Three hours is a long time for a film to attempt tension, and this one doesn’t always succeed, but overall the components lead one to an overwhelming sense of the relativity of guilt and innocence and the arbitrary nature of justice.

The Three Faces of Eve

Director: Nunnally Johnson
Rating: PG
Thursday, March 25, 8:00 pm

Joanne Woodward won an Academy Award for best actress in the leading role of this drama based on the true story of a woman with a multiple personality. Don’t miss it!

by Debbie Eisenbise ’82

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982