Development Continued from page 1

...currently houses the campus security office and the Director of the Physical Plant. In addition to these major projects, the
structure was recently determined to have been built before 1850. Renovations may end up costing several tens of thousands of
dollars. There is also an ongoing effort to convert the College campus to a pedestrian campus. Roads would surround only
the perimeter of the campus, and new walks and improved paths would criss-cross the grounds. Additionally, the College hopes to
replace old tar surface sidewalks with more attractive and permanent brick walkways.

These are just the first steps in a larger program of expansion and renovation. Included in the 1987 Program are
plans to expand Davidson’s athletic facilities. Johnston Gymnasium, built over thirty years ago for a student body 61% of the
current enrollment, is insufficient for Davidson’s needs. The swim team voted this year to dissolve itself partly because the pool
beneath the gym is inadequate for their training. Vice-President for Development Jack Powers hopes to be able to fund a
new sports center equipped with a gymnasium, swimming pool, improved racquetball/squash/handball courts, and more facilities for women’s athletics. Since Johnston
Gym was built before co-education, there is a dearth of accommodations for women’s athletics. Dr. Powers said Johnston Gym would
be devoted to academic use. A number of proposals (from large lecture halls to art galleries to an auditorium) have
been offered for the upper floors. The lower floor would ease the demands on the twenty-one-year-old Cunningham Fine Arts Building
for art studio space. If a new sports center is not built, then Dr. Powers hopes to at least renovate
the Gym and build new visual arts facilities.

The College also hopes to construct a new building for the maintenance department. The staff currently works out of a
dilapidated building originally designed for temporary usage. The building lacks adequate space, lighting, and decent flooring. The Development Office has
plans for the college-owned Post Office building. The overcrowded Bookstore will move to the Post Office building in order to
get students into downtown Davidson more often and also to provide more visibility for the Bookstore. The Post Office will
move to a site behind Main Street.

The key ingredient behind these plans is money. The original proposals in the 1987 program allowed $6 million for construction.
Inflation has affected these estimates considerably. For example, the initial allocation for the renovation of the Martin Science Building was
$700,000. The final cost was $1 million. The Commons, originally estimated at $600,000 in 1976, came in at $3.6 million.
Two dorms cost a million dollars each for a total of almost $6 million. Dr. Powers and the Development Office
have already raised $24 million out of a goal of $35 million. He hopes to raise as much as $50
million, however.

Jon Clark, WDAV station manager

WDAV Continued from page 1

...all about. They thought it was the same as commercial radio.” But, he says, “the students did an excellent job”
of showing alternative radio’s value and substance. The question Clark had to ask in making his decision was not whether
or not the music was valuable, but “Can...we, as a small station, do two formats in one broadcast day?” The
classical music listeners and the new wave/jazz listeners essentially compose two different audiences. In order to program for them, two
different staffs are needed; the classical programming is done by professional full-time staff and the alternative by part-time students. Clark,
as Station Manager, is responsible for “overall quality.” The classical listeners are by far the more affluent of the two
audiences, as well as the most willing to make donations. Of WDAV’s $151,000 budget for this year, one third is
paid by the college and the rest is donated. Despite the college’s significant financial interest in the station, Clark felt
“no real pressure from the college to dump Flipsides.” Glance and the other disc jockeys asked for support over the
airwaves in the form of donations and letters. To date, 58 letters and $180 have been received. Obviously, financial feasibility
was not one of the factors favoring the retention of alternative radio. “What swayed me,” says Clark, “was the kind
of support that was demonstrated.” Several of the 58 letters were emphatically appreciative of the service, but unable to pay
for it. “Public radio is committed to doing things that some people want to hear but can’t hear elsewhere. Here
we have something both unique and in demand.” Clark decided to cut an hour per day from alternative programming because
10 o’clock is a prime hour for classical listeners (the major financial supporters) to tune in, and a quick switch
at 10 pm from Stravinsky to the Sex Pistols may be a bit shocking. Says Production Director Jan Weller, “eleven
o’clock is more of a change in peoples’ lives.” As far as changes in the programming itself go, Clark wants
to see “a more focused format,” and “less random, or single person programming decisions.” Jonathan Glance has written an outline
for improvements, and plans to “drop the guise of folk programming,” and “tighten quality control,” which means they will play
only new and old music no other station in the area plays. There will also be weekly meetings of the
alternative disc jockeys to discuss the past week’s records and to point out which ones “aren’t good,” or are “too
commercial.” Clark feels that from the questioning of alternative radio has arisen “a positive impetus to improve” and “a renewed
interest on the part of all those involved.” Of the surrounding college-funded stations, only Clemson’s WBSF broadcasts new wave. WBSF
is student-run and plays alternative rock, reggae, etc. all day except for a 5-7 pm slot of jazz. WFDD of
Wake Forest is a professionally-run college-funded station that also employs student disc jockeys for an alternative program, but they discontinued
all new-wave on January 1 of this year. Says station manager Pat Crawford, “Jazz is more in keeping with our
format and could be enjoyed by classical listeners as well. We wanted to keep a somewhat consistent audience.” They also
use Radio Drama from ten to eleven as a sort of “buffer zone” between classical and jazz. UNCC’s WFAE and
Duke’s WDBS also broadcast jazz and classical but no rock.

Brian Butler ‘84
