Students Elect Johnston, Young As SGA Leadership

In SGA elections on March 23, Tim Johnston defeated Chip Hurley 426-292 to become the new president. In a runoff the next day, Boe Young beat Lentz Ivey 390-264 for vice-president. Both Johnston and Young said they will spend the first few weeks getting organized and appointing chairmen. “There are a lot of files to read,” Boe said.

Johnston said the SGA will be responding to the EPC proposal to introduce “minuses” to the grading system. “We’re not going to be standing aside and letting the proposal go through,” he said. “It’s not a good thing.” The SGA will also form committees to study the careers office and self-selection.

In elections this week, for the first time in memory, there was an exact tie. Ellen Papadeas and Elizabeth White each polled 105 votes in the Tuesday runoff for Sophomore senate. In yesterday’s runoff, Ellen Papadeas won. In the same runoff, the freshmen elected Rod Holman president of the rising sophomore class, and Warren Gould to the senate.

Ester Kim is the new junior class president. Lanny Conley and Burt Taylor were elected to the junior senate. The new senior class senators are Sherburne Laughlin, president, and Gray Hampton and Chip Hurley.

The newly elected members of the Honor Council are Reaves Robinson, Laura Curry, Anne Hockett, and Dave Stosur from the senior class. Doug Ammar, Elizabeth Kelly, and Rob Spaugh are the new junior honor council members. The freshmen elected Joe Bossong, Anne Miano, and Nancy Rosselot to next year’s Honor Council.

In campus-wide elections, Kathleen Huff and Hunter Monroe were elected to the Student Conduct Council, which sets policy for honor code and code of responsibility proceedings. Denice Ferguson and Tom Schember are now on the review board, which hears appeals of honor code cases. Emily Davis and Buncie Hay are the new members of the Council on Campus and Religious Life.

Jeff Mann ‘84

SGA Discusses EPC Grading Proposals

“The game of Assassins that the Union Games Committee was planning to start on April 1st has been cancelled because there have been many complaints that such a game is not in any way constructive and is in many ways destructive in promoting things such as violence and killing.”

This announcement was posted on campus last week and is no doubt partly the result of incidents at other campuses across the country that have caused great concern to administrators and students alike. While the Union Games Committee tried to organize the simulated assassination game as safely as possible, many people are concerned at the amount of risk that would-be assassins and victims face.

Four months ago, Michael Reagan (no relation to the president, we hope), a student at California State (allegedly taking part in an assassination game), was shot twice by campus security officer Stephen King, an 11-year veteran of the force, when he mistook the toy gun that Reagan was carrying for a real one. Reagan, who was hospitalized in critical condition, is expected to recover fully.

“Officer King was patrolling the campus on the night of the shooting,” recalls Cal State Director of Public Affairs Bob Breunig, “when he saw two people getting out of a car and cocking what appeared to be shotguns.” When King toldThe students to halt, Breunig says, Reagan pointed his toy weapon at the officer. King, unaware that the gun was a toy, fired, hitting Reagan twice. Jeff Brick, head of Cal State campus police, contends King was blameless: “It was dark and foggy, and they were carrying replicas of M-16 semi-automatic rifles, complete with scopes. The officer had no way of knowing they were toys.”

Another incident occurred at UCLA, when a band of painted savages masquerading as students playing Assassins leapt out of some bushes at a police officer who failed to return their fire. At least 8 campuses have banned the game, which is known as K.A.O.S. (for Killing As an Organized Sport), Killer, Godfather, or just plain Assassin. International Association of Campus Law Enforcement Administrators leader James McGovern was “shocked” upon hearing of the Cal State incident. “You mean, they carry around guns and point them at each other? I would hope they knew better.”

Alessandro Vitelli (Alessandro is a Rusk Scholar from London, England).

Assassins Game Cancelled

Wednesday night in the Union, the 1982-83 SGA Senators held their first meeting. After swearing in ten new Senators in his first action as SGA president, Tim Johnston addressed his attention to the Educational Policies Committee’s proposed addition of A-, B-, C-, and D- to our grading system. “There’s no doubt GPAs will go down,” junior Senator Mark Oldenburg commented at the meeting. Most of the representatives agreed that, although the new scale would conform to the grading system in most law schools, “not everyone is pre-law,” and the scale would probably lower many people’s averages. For instance, under our present system, a B equals 3.0 points and a B plus equals 3.5 points. The proposed modification would give 2.7 points to a B-, 3.0 points to a B, and 3.3 points to a B plus. The relationship between numerical and letter grades, as now, would be left to the individual professor’s judgment. According to Professor of Political Science Louis L. Ortmayer, professors need the flexibility in grading that the new system would provide. They would particularly like to be able to differentiate between a low A and a solid A. One compromise suggested in Monday night’s meeting, which was open to students, involved the reinstating of the A plus, which has not been used since the calendar was changed from semesters to trimesters. Few colleges have 4.5 scales.

Johnston, Vice-president Boe Young, and the majority of the Senate agreed that minus grades would lower most people’s GPAs and so aggravate the already stiff competition in pre-professional departments. The SGA ended their discussion by adopting a resolution stating that they disapprove of any change in the present scale. Senators will visit their constituents this weekend to explain the issue and ask for support and suggestions. Johnston welcomes phone calls to his office (ext. 147) or room (6395). Many faculty members or student EPC members Todd Cowdery and Bill Purcell will be happy to field questions and hear opinions. After hearing the SGA’s report, the EPC may vote if they feel that they have heard all suggestions. Otherwise, there could be another open meeting in the next couple of weeks.

Diana Bohrer ’85
DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982