Opinions: Clark Discusses U.S.-African Relations

If I had to summarize in one word what American policy toward Africa has been, I would say “neglect.” We just haven’t paid much attention to it. This neglect is quite strange really when you think about it because 10-12% of the population of this country is made up of people who came from Africa. American blacks have been largely unable, economically, to be a strong influence, because economic influences tend to be very meaningful in a democracy. It has only been very recently that we have paid much attention to Africa. This has been true not just in foreign policy, but equally true in American colleges and universities, and in publishing. Our government has been a fairly accurate reflection of American society’s general lack of interest in Africa. In fact, it was only in 1958 or 1959 that the State Department even had a bureau of African affairs.

A lot of the reason for lack of interest compared to that of a number of European countries is the fact that we did not have colonies. We did not have a natural tie, a reason to go to Africa in the late 19th Century or even in the 20th Century. It is very hard to begin to see any real interest in Africa at all until the very end of the Eisenhower administration. At this time it was no longer possible to ignore Africa entirely, because decolonization had begun. Ghana, in 1956 to 1982, has been concerned with this decolonization process. It was really only with the beginning of the Kennedy administration that we did begin to pay a greater interest in Africa. We began to talk with some of the liberation groups, most all of whom ultimately became the governments of these countries. Kennedy appointed a very important person in his administration, Governor Kennan Williams of Michigan, to be the Assistant Secretary of State for African affairs. Not much got done in terms of U.S.-African relations during the Kennedy administration; but at least something was started. Julius Nyerere, president of Tanzania, said when he heard of Kennedy’s death: “At least he tried.”

Johnson at first followed Kennedy’s initiative in developing U.S.-African relations but soon the Vietnam conflict drew most all of his attention and the focus of his foreign policy to South-East Asia. During the last three years of his administration, Africa was again neglected. When Nixon came to power, he appointed Henry Kissinger as his National Security Advisor, who immediately emerged as the dominant figure in American foreign policy from 1969-1977. To understand U.S. foreign policy at this time is to look somewhat at Kissinger’s own views, which were not unlike those of any other Secretary of State, principally aimed at the East-West conflict. Kissinger saw the great problem being the Soviet Union; all other problems were seen in relationship to that central issue of conflict. If he became interested in an African issue it would almost certainly be in a cold war context. Kissinger took relatively little interest in Africa until there began to be some Soviet activity there.

In 1969, with the change in administration, Kissinger, being a rather systematic person and a very capable mind, felt that he ought to have a massive study of African affairs. He authorized what is rather famously called, to African historians, NSSM 39 (National Security Council Study Memorandum 39). It just meant that he had in the National Security Council several people involved in taking a year-long study to see what it ought to be in Africa. By January 1970 they had come to certain conclusions. Kissinger was given several options; he chose option 2. NSSM 39 was a secret document but has become well known in the period since and published in book form. The NSSM 39 policy really governed the United States in African affairs from January 1970 to January 1976, when it had to change because of the Angola conflict.the NSSM 39 policy? It was a policy which said that white minority regimes of Southern Africa were there to stay. It concluded that the regime in the Republic of South Africa was very strong, that the Republic was going to prevail, and that white supremacy would continue to operate in that government. It concluded that the Republic of South Africa’s retention of Namibia, or South West Africa, was a fait accompli for the foreseeable future. The study concluded that the embargoes had really not hurt the Smith regime in Rhodesia very much and that throughout the 70s and perhaps the 80s the regime would stand. It was a government that we would have to deal with. Furthermore, the study claimed, the Portuguese empire, consisting of Angola, Mozambique, and Guinea-Bissau, which had — after all — existed for 500 years, was very solid, and that the black liberation groups in these countries were very unlikely to be successful. The study also concluded that we should continue to develop a relationship with the white minority regimes and that we should not therefore give much encouragement or support to the black liberation groups as we had done in terms of communication under the previous two administrations. We could not take such a position in public. The Nixon administration decided that the government, if required to take a position that was not favorable to white supremacy in Southern Africa, would certainly not go out of its way to criticize the Southern African regime. We were going to quietly take a position of cooperation with Southern Africa. It was decided in the case of Portugal, a NATO ally, that the NATO alliance was very important to us. We supplied equipment to Portugal which became a very big issue because some of it ended up illegally going down to Mozambique and Angola to be used against liberation groups. It is always easier of course to see the flaws of a policy with hindsight. We now knew that the NSSM 39 policy was very ill-founded, because the white regimes, except South Africa, were not there to stay. In April of 1974, there was suddenly a coup in Lisbon and the government of Lisbon was overthrown. The leadership of the military coup established a democracy. Because Angola and Mozambique were major territories for such a long time, most of the army officers involved with the coup had served in Angola or Mozambique. A great number of them had become sympathetic to the black Angolans and Mozambicans; besides, they hated going to Southern Africa to fight. Quite naturally, the first thing they did when they overthrew the government was to announce that Angola and Mozambique would be given their independence. Bang! Independence unraveled in Mozambique in a rather easy fashion. There was only one major liberation group and they emerged as the government of the country. It was a group called FRELIMO, headed by Machel who became the president. In Angola, a terrible civil war occurred in which there were three major factions roughly following tribal lines and in which we and the Soviets got very much involved. Meantime in Rhodesia, it became increasingly clear by 1974-1975 that the regime in Salisbury might indeed be overthrown. In fact, in 1975 Kissinger himself came to believe that it should be overthrown. At the end of the Angola war, the administration decided to give up the NSSM 39 policy, to change the policy totally, and to now try to identify with the black majorities in Southern Africa. This was characterized first by a speech Kissinger made in Lusaka, Zambia, in August 1976, in which he called on Smith to give up power in Rhodesia and on South Africa to begin negotiations on Namibia. His method of operation was to try to work with the Republic of South Africa to try to get them to bring pressure to bear on Rhodesia.