Sir Walter Ralegh’s career as privateer, explorer, and perhaps paramour to Queen Elizabeth remains somewhat hazy to this day, but the spring drama RALEGH! will bring the colorful story to stage next weekend. History has often told his story with such simple—but true—stereotypes as Ralegh laying down his cloak in the mud for the Queen to pass over and his curious and shocking use of the aromatic weed called tobacco. Yet James Pendleton, author of the play RALEGH! and a Davidson graduate of ’52, brings into play both the dramatic and the historical Sir Walter.

Pendleton avoids at all costs letting his historical drama read like a textbook. As he says: “In writing this play, I have held two objectives. The first was to be dramatically effective, and the second was to be true to the historical personalities and issues. I agree with Aristotle, however, that poetry is a higher art than history, and whenever my two goals conflicted with each other, I have subordinated literal historical accuracy to the greater demands of dramatic form.” He admits to putting the known words of one character in another character’s mouth in cases where the dramatic effect will be heightened.

Directed by Rupert T. Barber, the play will feature 14 student actors, including Todd Cowdery as Ralegh, Janet Ward Black as Queen Elizabeth, Stephanie Moffet as Ralegh’s wife, and John Richards as Sir Henry Yelverton. In addition to the actors, about 70 students are working on design execution, costuming, make-up, lighting, box office, and promotion. The set design is the work of J. Steven Cline, yet another Davidson graduate, who conceived the set for the Davidson production of GUYS AND DOLLS three years ago. Davidson drama professor Joseph Gardner is the Technical Director, and the lighting will be by Charles Will, Jr., operations manager of the Union.

Although James Pendleton asserts the primacy of pure drama over pure fact, his own life devotes time to both pursuits. An avid researcher, Pendleton has combined a long teaching career at Virginia Commonwealth University with success as a playwright.

During 23 years at VCU, the associate professor of English has written more than a dozen works for the theatre which have been produced and published along with works for television and radio.

RALEGH! won the Rochester, Minn., Civic Theater Playwriting Award for 1978. His TV works, “Echoes” and “Rite of Passage,” won for him the Eugene O’Neill Memorial Theater Center Award for Television Drama for two consecutive years—’79 and ’80. His play titled, “A Last Supper,” was selected and published in BEST SHORT PLAYS FOR 1980. His plays have been produced throughout the United States, in Canada, and Germany.

RALEGH! is an elaborate affair, no less in terms of set and costume than plot. The costuming will all be done by Davidson students under the direction of Cindy Faulkenberry, senior drama major. This arrangement will provide a better costume inventory for the department and reduce the cost of the play. A grant of $3000 from the Arts and Science Council will help defray the cost of the two scheduled runs of RALEGH! at Charlotte’s Spirit Square Performance Place. The student production of GODSPELL also helped to alleviate the high cost of RALEGH!. Led by Laura Singleton, the production netted $600, all of which will go toward costuming.

The Spirit Square performances will provide a unique opportunity for the actors to be received by a non-Davidson audience. These two performances, however, will not use the student crew but only the actors and stage manager. Director Barber says the production is making good progress. Dress rehearsal will take place on Monday, April 29, the student opening on Thursday, April 22, the two regular performances on Friday and Saturday evenings, and the Spirit Square performances on the following weekend. Tickets for those performances will be available through the Davidson box office. For ticket information call 892-2000, extension 340, 2-5 p.m. weekdays. The student opening tickets will be sold at a reduced rate.

Andy Wilson ’84