When the Davidson College Wind and Jazz Ensembles departed for their annual spring tour the Saturday after final exams, 4 inches of snow and a nearly deserted campus saw them off to sunny Florida for a busy 7-day tour which included 9 performances and the prospect of some hurried basking in the super tropical peninsula. Arranged and directed by Dr. William Lawing, the tour was a favorable combination of performance and pleasure.

Florida was at first not as sunny and warm as the postcards sent home boasted, but the Jazz Ensemble’s scorching renditions of Big Band favorites and the Wind Ensemble’s cool and composed performances of excellent wind pieces must have brightened the spectators' days at performance stops all over Florida, including Disney World in Orlando. A considerable number of Davidson students attended the performances (an estimated 50 or more groupies made it to the Disney gig).

Despite the hectic schedule, the group managed to find some free time each day along the 2,200-mile way, touring the Kennedy Space Center and soaking up rays from Jacksonville to Orlando. Spending a lot of time aboard the bus, the performers entertained themselves with continuous bridge games, video toys, Walkmen, trashy novels, and of course zzzzs. Most noteworthy of the various forms of entertainment, however, were the traditional saga-journals which disclosed the choicest bits of fictional gossip-dirt and the 47 personalized limericks about each performer (most of which are unfortunately unpublishable). Of course, there were the perennial romances and feigned flings which life on the road seems to encourage. All involved shall remain nameless; you know who you are! The most fun, however, was had off the bus. Johnny Leazer and Mike Cooper share icy remembrances of the dunkings they both experienced. The “beach bunnies” and Dave Lawing T-shirts which they will probably never wear again, but which will bring a chuckle or two out of the bottom drawer of fond reminiscences of the tour. Dan Metzel’s daring method of feeding the gulls (lying flat with loads of bread spread out on his stomach) impressed even those who had never seen the movie The Birds. Two nights were spent at hotels instead of chez host families. At the St. Petersburg stop, the “John Hoots Bachelor Party Band” took advantage of the lounge by relieving the regular band and actually playing a gig. John Lowry’s flying monkey and the juggling antics of the trumpet section became regular performance stunts. A few not-so-regular stunts, such as Kelly Moore’s show-stopping music-dropping and the open-door breeze’s displacement of the Flute Ensemble’s piece, served to break up the taxing and repetitive job of performing so much. The groups maintained a professional air and sound, probably because of all the fun they had off-stage.

The final performance in Atlanta was considered by many members to be the best, although Lawing says the Sunday night performance at Ormond Beach was very professional. Actually, the tour was. with the performance in Hodson Hall March 11. The audience response was quite appreciative, and the members of the ensembles felt especially gratified that the home crowd approved so heartily of all the hard work they put into their music. The selections were almost identical to the tour program and showed a great diversity and virtuosity. Dr. Lawing considered this year’s tour, the fifth so far, a success. The members' stories certainly affirm that acclamation, as does their music. Lawing was especially complimentary of the manner in which the bands represented the school. Their friendliness and openness made lasting impressions everywhere they visited, including their wrap-up performance on campus.

Andy Wilson, ’84

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982