Julian Bond: Style and Content

Senator Julian Bond gave a lively and popular political speech last Monday night. Unfortunately, he took so long to wind
through the time-worn and vituperative attacks on President Reagan that I had little chance to appreciate the facts and figures
he used at the end of his speech. Much like William Buckley’s speech last week, Bond’s did not provide a
thought-provoking analysis of today’s political jungle. Instead, he lambasted the President who seeks to “turn the clock back on civil
rights,” “help the rich to the detriment of the poor,” and increase the tensions in society.

Whether Bond is right or not is not my first dispute with the Georgia state senator. Senator Bond’s style appeals
solely to emotional responses and makes faulty generalizations about opposition to his beliefs. I find such a style insulting both
personally and intellectually. I also found much lacking by the spokesman for the right, William F. Buckley, Jr. Both he
and Senator Bond are intelligent and articulate men who showed little of these attributes in their well-worn speeches presented here.
The satiric wit and bombastic syntax that Buckley uses to ridicule the left comes across to those disagreeing with his
outlook just as poorly as Bond’s aspersive jabs and confrontational rhetoric caused my indigestion and outrage. Both men fed us
a diet of political pablum. I think as college students we deserve better. I find it intellectually insulting to be
told that our president is “anti-black” and “anti-family.” Does such rhetoric fly in Washington as Democrats and Republicans seek to
reconcile differences on budget priorities?

I would not have objected to a reasoned and logical refutation of Reagan’s civil rights stance. Bond hinted at such
an argument near the end of his speech. Cast against his impassioned excesses that characterized most of his speech, this
refutation seemed a mere afterthought. We should not have to tolerate remarks which are readily available from local or national
elected officials who offer such jureeto to the media and their political allies. As for the clique that hissed when
I phrased my bellicose statement/question, I urge you to understand that my caustic phrasing was no worse than Bond’s attacks
on the president’s policies. We both have license to use whatever style seems appropriate.

To set the record straight, Reagan is not anti-black nor are his policies “a redistribution of income from the poor
to the rich.” What Bond refers to as the survival of the richest is, in Reagan’s view, palliative relief to
the taxpayers who have faced inexorable taxation and been pushed into higher tax brackets by the torrid rise in inflation.
Not once did Bond mention the beneficial effects of a lowered inflation rate. Inflation is perhaps the most regressive form
of taxation on the poor, for they rarely have their wages and benefits tied to an index and must spend
a great deal of this income on the necessary staples for daily existence. Even after Reagan’s tax cut, a middle
American is still paying higher taxes to finance the gamut of federal spending. Most of the focus on federal spending
has come on ineffective welfare programs, though few would applaud the outrageous waste present in dense spending. People express frustration
with welfare programs whose costs ballooned in the seventies and did little to aid the poor. Ten cents of every
dollar spent on helping the poor actually gets to the poor. To the forgotten man who must foot this bill,
this waste is a misuse of his hard-earned money. What Bond referred to as a redistribution of income from the
poor to the rich is a fallacious interpretation of where this income comes from. What Bond means is that the
poor are receiving less, still receiving nonetheless, and the “rich,” this nebulous group of middle and upper-income Americans, are now
allowed to keep a slightly higher percentage of what they earned, yet still surrendering money to the government.

Bond denounced the president for opposing the civil rights legislation up for renewal in Congress. He also accused the Justice
Department of not pursuing civil rights cases with enough zeal. If the Justice Department has indeed consciously slowed the prosecution
of civil rights offenders as Bond charges, then this is to be deplored and corrected with all deliberate speed. There
are no doubt reasons in some of these cases which fit the administration’s philosophy that Bond did not care to
elucidate. I make no excuses for the reprehensible flip-flop of policy toward Bob Jones College but do believe the main
thought of the administration’s approach to civil rights is sound and desirable.

Bond and supporters of the current federal civil rights bill favor the House version of this bill which the administration
opposes. The House amendment stresses the effect of voting rights in areas around the country. If an area is half
black, it should be represented by half black legislators. If this is not the case, then the district is in
violation of the spirit and intent of the House version of the bill.Even if there is no discriminatory intent in
a district, election results suffice to show discrimination and dilution of black votes. There are a number of potential reasons
why blacks could be over or underrepresented in a district, such as the percentage of voter turnout, and the relative
merit of the individual candidates (not based on color). Because of these vagaries inherent to our election process, no minority
group has a federal constitutional right to elect candidates in proportion to its number. As Mobile, Alabama v. Bolden clearly
evinced, proportional representation based on race is not a right granted to any group. If the House version is put
into law, there would be little need for elections to determine the minority/majority percentages in a legislative body.

Student Input Doesn’t Compute

In the last few weeks, several important decisions affecting students and the future shape of the college were made by
the administration. It is unlikely, however, that many students had any impact on these decisions, or even knew these decisions
were under consideration. Though examples abound, the most ubiquitous one is in the changes around the campus this year. Someone
has decreed that meandering brick paths must connect every two points on campus. More recently, harsh flood lamps have begun
to replace the soft, traditional streetlights. So far as I know, few if any students were aware of these changes
before crews started digging. Certainly, no plans were announced, or even any prior warning given.

On a slightly higher plane, the Student Conduct Council (SCC) made several substantive changes in the face of the Honor
Code this year, all with no notice of what it was considering until it made the decision, if then. This
fall, a student from the Davidsonian was asked to leave an SCC meeting when it discussed the issue of accountability
in the Honor System. A few weeks ago, the SCC made entering someone’s computer file tantamount to breaking into his
room, under the indications that the SCC was considering this before the Computer Center issued a stern warning to “Watch
your Step.” It came as an utter surprise to most computer users.

The list goes on. A look at next year’s schedule will show that the traditional free 10:00 hour is eroding.
Again, a surprise. Several departments have changed their major requirements and split up and combined some of their course offerings.
This comes as a surprise to all but some well-connected majors in the departments. A student next year must choose
between Formal Logic and Persuasive Reasoning since the Philosophy Department split the Logic and Language course. A slight inconvenience, true,
but a difference that matters.

The Development office is busy planning what Davidson will look like in the next couple of decades, but is reticent
to reveal their plans to all but potential big donors. These examples are indicative of the way Davidson generally makes
decisions. There is an overweening attitude that the less said about things, the better. While obviously this makes it harder
to put out a newspaper, our concern is not totally self-serving. Greater openness cannot help but get more students involved
in running the Davidson campus. Students at other campuses are amazed at the low level of responsibility students have in
running this campus. If we are as capable as the Admissions Office says we are, surely we can at least
be informed of the important decisions.

There are, of course, exceptions to this closed-door policy. The Educational Policy Committee (EPC) has been very open in its
deliberations on a new grading scale. While many will probably be unhappy with whatever it decides, the decision won't be
a surprise already set in granite when students first hear of it. The inclusion of students on the committees which
make the decisions is a good sign, but it is often not enough. Often the students are as reticent as
the administration. While occasionally there may be reasons for treating individual circumstances with discretion, rarely is there sufficient justification for
the black robe of secrecy which surrounds virtually everything having to do with the Honor Code, Development, and curriculum, among
others.

I do not in any way wish to question the propriety or wisdom of those decisions or the people who
make them (though we, of course, reserve the right to do so later). I do, however, strongly question the way
decisions are made. Even though I agree with most of them, it is harder to accept a decision which comes
capriciously out of the blue. What I hope for is more notice of upcoming decisions, with a chance for general
student input. Probably this suggestion will strike some as “letting the inmates run the asylum.” This attitude is perhaps the
most damning indictment of the status quo.

Jeff Mann '84

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 7 May, 1982
