Attention Commoners! A Satisfied Curitier Speaks Out

A few couples of mine and I are getting somewhat alarmed at the effect the Commons seems to be having
on Patterson Court (well, the independent eating houses (well, ATO)). It’s doing us in, and we don’t think that’s very
good at all. You may think I’m premature, but that's what's going to happen if things keep going the way
they are now.

The Commons is nothing but a glorified cafeteria, a barn. And I can’t see why anyone would want to eat
in a cafeteria. It’s full of impersonal noise. True, you get to see all your friends there, but you get
to see a lot of friends at your eating house, too.

Picture this: It’s 1:00 and time to eat. So you go down to the Commons, where you stand in line
for a while, waiting to get to the lady behind the table who checks off your number on a long
list of numbers. This is to prevent you from giving your meal card to a friend so he can get
a free lunch. I guess they don’t trust us down there, and with good reason. Ever heard of diffusion of
responsibility? It’s what happens when you get large numbers of people. Nobody feels responsible for their actions anymore.

Anyway, then you go stand in another line (actually, sort of an assembly line where your lunch is built with
interchangeable parts). Did anyone ever see Brave New World on TV? That's what it reminds me of. Then you go
sit at a table and eat. If you went with a friend, maybe you sit with him or her. If
not, maybe you find a friend, maybe you eat alone.

Ok, now that I've got you eating lunch, think about what you’re doing here. You are just a stranger, being
processed by an impersonal system. What is this system? What’s it like being a part of it? Whenever I’m in
a cafeteria, I never fail to feel like a character in Brave New World or some other gloomy, futuristic science-fiction
novel. Like a tiny pea in a vast machine (to mix my metaphors). You'll be taken care of, sure, but
not because of altruism. It’s good business to satisfy the customers, and there’s nothing wrong with that. I’m usually all
for it. But it is a little impersonal.

Listen: you can hear that impersonal noise. You hear people talking, but they’re all talking about totally different things. And
if there’s a bunch of jerks at the next table, you have to endure them. After all, that’s life, and
how are you going to learn about life if you're not exposed to it? Anyway, when you’re done, you put
your tray on that conveyor belt, which carries it into the kitchen, where people you'll never see will wash your
dishes. Kind of like a factory, isn’t it? And day after day, nothing interesting happens there.

Ok, now picture life at the eating house: 1:00 and time to eat. Actually, you've already been here 15 to
20 minutes talking to your friends. One of the waiters rings the bell and you sit down at a table
and start passing food around and serving yourself. (That reminds me: Let me tell you about waiters and washers. They
are students who wait on tables or wash for a term, usually three or four times a week, for a
discount of about $80-$100 off their food bills. A certain camaraderie develops between these people. I myself have been washing,
but don’t really do it for the money. I do it so I can watch (and be a part of)
all the shenanigans that go on in the kitchen after meals.)

There are usually six to eight people at a table, max. There’s no impersonal noise here, but it’s not quiet
as a tomb, either. About halfway through the meal, somebody will stand up and make an announcement of some sort.
Usually, guests are introduced to the whole house by way of an announcement. Pardon my mushiness,but the whole atmosphere is
one of friendship. Sometimes after lunch, you can get somebody to give you a backrub, which is rather relaxing. (As
far as I can tell, this is characteristic of only ATO.) And you can just sit around and talk some
more after lunch or play some ping pong or some music you like. It’s a lot more relaxing and just
plain nicer. Sometimes, I get the impression you folks at the Commons just don’t know the benefits of an eating
house, which I guess are sort of intangible, but very real nonetheless (like air is intangible but real).

I made some comments earlier I'd like to elaborate on a little. Capitalism is a good way to do something,
and you can’t learn about life unless you’re exposed to it. True, but... Do you really want to relax during
meals? I do. You don’t have to do everything with maximum efficiency. On being exposed to life: Surely you don’t
need to be exposed to “real life” all the time. Besides, saying one needs to learn about life implies that
(among other things) life is unchangeable. What kind of attitude is that? I think it’s an effect of being part
of a large crowd that is always told what to do. (But what do I know? I’m just an armchair
social psychologist (and an idealist to boot).)

If you eat at an eating house, you will find that you personally can change the way things are. I
hear you saying that the reason you’ll eat at the Commons next year is flexibility. Admittedly, the eating houses don’t
have the flexibility of the Commons. But they’re not totally inflexible. You can eat half board or early lunch or
work out some kind of special plan. Are you really going to hide behind that (half) reason? I think you’re
just plain shy. True, an eating house is full of strangers, but only for about a week, and then it’s
magically transformed into an eating house full of friends.

I see you staying away from Patterson Court in droves. You realize, of course, that’s probably going to be the
downfall of the independent eating houses. I really hate to see that happen because eating at an eating house has
been beneficial to me and I don’t like to see other people denied the same positive effects. I don’t see
how the College can talk about the benefits of a small college and at the same time, take us off
Patterson Court and put us in a barn of a cafeteria. Why did the trustees have that thing built, anyway?
And you people are letting the houses die. That’s a shame. What the eating houses lack in efficiency they make
up in other ways.

I heard someone say that he was going to eat at the Commons because his fraternity would provide all his
social life. Well, I’ve got news for you: “Social Life” is not synonymous with partying. It involves other aspects of
life, too. That’s where the eating houses come in.

This was going to be a letter to the editor, but he suggested I make it into an article (I
think mostly because it was too long to be a letter). These are the people whose names would have appeared
at the bottom: Jeff Herrin ’83 (who helped me write this), Shaw ’82, Dorothy Graham ’84, Karen Baldwin ’84, Charlie
Lovett ’84, and Lynmarie Posey ’84.

LIVE A LONG AND HEALTHY LIFE

I plan on living a long and healthy life, so get regular cancer checkups. You see, the best time to
get a checkup is before you have any symptoms. So take care of yourself now. Call or write your local
unit of the American Cancer Society for a free pamphlet on their new cancer checkup guidelines. Because if you’re like
me, you want to live long enough to do (idbbes oc).

AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY

18 January 1982
