A small yet enthusiastic audience witnessed the world premiere of Wilmer Hayden Welsh’s most recent composition, "Mosaic Portrait II: The
Golden Calf," as part of the Vesper Concert series on Sunday, 17 October. The performance by the Southern Saxophone Quartet
featured professor James Swisher as narrator and the composer, Mr. Welsh, at the organ.

"Mosaic Portrait II: The Golden Calf" was commissioned earlier this year by the Southern Saxophone Quartet, one of the only
such ensembles in this country dedicated to performing classical saxophone literature. At a festival of Wilmer Welsh’s music held in
Clinton, South Carolina, the first seed for the Golden Calf was sown. Christopher T. Kelton, tenor saxophonist with the Southern
Quartet and faculty member at Presbyterian College, attended the festival and later asked Mr. Welsh if he would consider composing
a piece for the ensemble. A few weeks later, the Southern Quartet formally commissioned him to write a piece for
them, specifying that it be religiously based.

Liturgical music scored for saxophone quartet is certainly not a common occurrence—to most, the sound of this instrument connotes jazz
and often sexual images. The performance by the Southern Quartet at Davidson demonstrated many possibilities in writing concert music for
saxophones. The problems Mr. Welsh encountered were not in overcoming the limitations, but rather, in controlling the diversity of the
medium. The flexibility, and especially the sensuality/sexuality evoked by the sound of saxophones, fit the golden calf story well.

On the first page of the score, Mr. Welsh describes the interesting title of the work: “A mosaic portrait is
a visual likeness achieved by inlaying stones of various sizes and colors on a flat surface. Here, alternating narrative and
musical sections tell the Biblical story of the golden calf from Exodus 32.” The seven narrative sections, in iambic pentameter,
were also written by Mr. Welsh. The eight musical “stones” are related by various uses of a twelve-tone row. Each
section was conceived to stand on its own. The colors, the contrasts, and the placement of the stones isolated this
painting in time, making for a unified story.

The piece surprisingly appealed to a wider audience than usual for a Welsh composition. Typical labels affixed to music by
Mr. Welsh liken it to the sound of someone sitting on the organ keyboard, and the more scholarly “weird” and
“dissonant.” When asked if he attempted to make his music more accessible to the “common man,” Mr. Welsh replied that
if anything, his technique has become less accessible (according to popular standards). He feels that there is a growing acceptance
of modern art music for several reasons. Movies and TV are using “dissonant” music, and both orchestras and radio play
increasingly.More contemporary music, particularly religious music, has exhibited a desire for new expression (a major reason for increasing awareness of
Mr. Welsh’s works). These are good signs, he feels, as more people are now demanding new music with more substance,
rather than only overplayed “classics.”

Mr. Welsh, throughout his life, has been occupied with church music, first as a chorister, then as an organist, choirmaster,
composer, and teacher. Mr. Welsh joined the faculty of Davidson College in 1963. Currently, he is a professor of music,
college organist, and chairman of the music department. Mr. Welsh received a Bachelor of Science degree from Johns Hopkins University
and the degrees of Bachelor and Master of Music from the Peabody Conservatory of Music, Baltimore. In addition, he was
awarded the coveted Artist’s Diploma in organ from Peabody. His organ and composition teachers here and in Europe were Henry
Cowell, Nicholas Slonimsky, Matyas, and Nadia Boulanger.

Known both as an organist and as a composer, he has performed as an organ recitalist in many parts of
the country, often playing programs entirely comprised of his own works. His music has been performed virtually everywhere in the
U.S. He has won many grants and commissions from colleges, churches, and foundations. His compositions include four oratorios, two operas,
two concerti, a symphony, chamber music, anthems, and works for organ alone and with other instruments.

As a religious experience, the Golden Calf is exciting. It represents what many feel should happen in order for one
to truly understand one’s religion: the taking of what is given (here, the short story in Exodus), carefully thinking it
through, deciding what it means, then taking a necessary step which is often overlooked—experiencing it and clarifying it through some
creative means. The Golden Calf is an eclectic work which reveals the amount of thought necessary to express a story
by unifying the arts of music and poetry. It is the story of a people’s need for a touchable, knowable
God:

A god without a body cannot know
The fearful, thirsty need to sip eternal
Life from any cup, to worship calves
That any Aaron makes, to smear the drying
Blood of any lambs upon the doorposts
Of our lives in hope that somehow, some way,
Thirsty Death will sniff and pass us over.
(Narration VII)

No one should overlook the value of having a creative artist within the Davidson experience. At times there seems to
be a lack of understanding of the word creativity here. Creativity involves not only the consolidation and understanding of ideas,
but the ability to do something inventive with them, whether you are pre-med, physics, or football. And part of the
creative experience is seeing someone else do it.

Anyone interested in hearing a recording of the performance of Mosaic Portrait II: The Golden Calf by Wilmer Hayden Welsh
should contact the music department—the west side of the plain building west of the Guest House.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / November 1982
