ROTC Collects Blood

To the Editor:

On November 3, 1982, the 42nd Blood Drive took place under the direction of Brad McCall. Planning began six weeks
previously for this semi-annual event, sponsored by the Scabbard and Blade Society of ROTC and the North Carolina Chapter of
the American Red Cross. The drive was staffed by Red Cross personnel, Emergency Medical Technicians, women from the community, and
ROTC cadets.

The processing table opened at 10:00 a.m. in the Union and one hour later eighty persons were on their way
to donating a pint of blood. By the end of the day, 350 persons had been in-processed and 294 pints
had been collected. Thirty-nine persons were not able to donate because of medical reasons such as low iron concentration. Seventeen
persons decided not to give after signing in. Many who donated blood were typed for pheresis donations.

A pizza dinner was offered for the greatest participation by a hall, eating house, or fraternity. Second West Belk claimed
this prize, having 58 percent of their group donate.

Project Advisor Boe Young called the Blood Drive “an unqualified success.” The ROTC Department extends its gratitude to the following
merchants for their support: Anheuser-Busch; Davidson Dry Goods; The Flower Cart; John Mac & Son; King of Pizza; M &
M Soda Shop; The Peregrine House; and The Village Store.

George Thompson ’84

The PUG: Ready to Use

Greetings to the students and faculty of Davidson College,

The PRIME Users Group is an informal organization of computer users which offers many valuable programs and files. PUG is
easy to access and use. After logging into your UFD, enter the Primos command “MENU.” To find out what programs
are available and how to use them, ask to see the “Directory.” The Directory will also tell you when it
is all right to copy a program into your UFD. (If you don’t have a UFD, ask for one at
the Computer Services Center.)

The programs and files fall into three categories: instructional, useful, and fun. Instructional files range from “GRAPHICS.INSTR” which tells about
the new Graphics system, to “CPL.INSTR,” which will have you writing CPL’s in no time! Useful programs include “B.PROOF,” which
checks spelling against a list of correctly spelled words, “B.INDENT” which makes those Basic programs pretty, a number of helpful
PL1 routines, and a host of time-saving CPL’s that do everything from creating personal abbreviations (CREATE.CPL), to getting you to
class on time (ALARM.CPL).

And when you’re ready for a study break, play one of PUG’s wide selection of games. “B.TREK2” goes where no
man has ever gone before, “B.RUNNER” takes you on a journey as bizarre as Drop-Add, while “B.BJ” and “B.ROULT” let
you try your luck in Las Vegas. “B.RACE1,” “S.ZOK,” and “S.HANGMAN” are also popular. Run “B.STORY” to add to the
end of an ongoing comedy, or “B.DARWIN” to experience the wonders of evolution. Watch for “B.VIDBAL” - video pinball -
coming soon!

Most importantly, The PRIME Users Group needs input from everyone so that PUG can continue to facilitate constructive and enjoyable
use of Davidson’s Computer. If you would like to become a member of PUG, or if you have suggestions, ideas,
programs, or complaints, please contact Bill Appleton (SOWCA) or Hunter Monroe (SOHKM) in person or through Pug-messages.

Happy Hacking!

Billand Hunter Co-Directors of PUG ail Cross-Country

Corrected

To the Editor:

I wish to clarify some inaccuracies that appeared in Gary Sullivan’s article on the Cross-country meet at Georgia State. First,
the order of finishers he listed was incorrect for both teams. Frank Hague, a sensational freshman, was the fifth place
finisher on the men’s team. I was sixth. Also along these lines, the bee sting I suffered a few weeks
ago no longer affects my running. The fourth and fifth place finishers for the women were Kerris Herrnstein, who ran
the race of her young career, and Chris Seel respectively.

Second, Frank Ivey also is planning to make the trip to Wisconsin. He qualified as well as the women’s team.
His name was left off.

Third, the hospital grounds we raced on belong to a mental hospital. I doubt very seriously that the race was
run there for “precautionary measures.”

Jack Smith, men’s team captain

Hey Stewart,

I think the calendar is hysterical. I always read it first now, like the comics in The Observer.

Yours amusedly,
Steph Bruck

To the Editor:

The article in a recent ‘sonian, “National PIRGs Face Conservatives,” accurately reported the national scene but failed to mention a
most relevant fact: funds to the Davidson-PIRG are given on a completely voluntary basis NOT by the automatic checkoff system
described in the article.

Jennie Barnhardt ’84

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from our readers. We try to print all letters that are of general interest, but we
adhere to these four guidelines:

1. We require that letters be in our hands by Tuesday 7 p.m.
2. We require that letters be neatly typed.
3. We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editor, Stewart Cauley.
4. We reserve the right not to print letters that (a) function as advertisements; (b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or
inside jokes; (c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in many other letters printed on the same topic.
We also reserve the right to condense very long letters.

The Davidsonian does not in any way endorse the opinions expressed in the letters we print.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: Davidsonian, Box
210, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone 704/892-2009, ext. 143 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of Grey Student Union.
Subscription rates cost $10 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage no. USPS 149-180.

Editor: Stewart Cauley
Executive Editor: Brian Butler
News Editor: David Resnik
Features Editor: Tom Pafford
Sports Editor: Steve Soud
Production Editor: Ann Meador
Photography Editor: Anderson Scott
Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams
Calendar Editor: Ivy Goodman
Business Manager: Lentz Ivey
Advertising Managers: Jeff Danese, Frank Hague
Graphics: Scot Myers
Editor Emeritus: Elizabeth Kiss

Staff: Lindsay Biddle, Paulette Kurani, Christi Baggett, Anne Lambert, Bill Barnett, John Lyday, Neil Cooksey, Ginna McGee, Mark Elmore, Laura
McGee, Duncan V. Fraser, Elodie McMillan, Kara Gilmore, Matt Morris, Jonathan Glance, Peggy Pierotti, Jennifer Gotto, John Ruppenthal, Thurston Hatcher,
Garry Sullivan, Rob Hollenbeck, Tom Schilling, Scott Huie, John Verdi, Joe Jaworski, Andrew Wilson

THE DAVIDSONIAN/5 November 1982
