Booze Brothers “Got No Line”

Jim Hawk and Jim Troutman

Our car broke down this week and we were forced to set out on foot to find a hot new spot to report on. We went down to the Peregrine House, but the place was packed and we couldn’t get a seat. We walked on away, only to be surprised by a sparkle of lights in a large building ahead. They mesmerized us and drew us in.

We entered this bar and, much to our dismay, were met with the harsh glare of a mirrored ball twirling on the ceiling; we glared back and walked warily in. What kind of place was this, we wondered, and were we welcome here? We had tackled the Anchor Tavern and The Pub before, but this seemed a new matter altogether.

The beer prices consoled us immediately, however, and we even found they served Heineken on draft. Something was amiss though; and we took note. Was it the music? Was it the decor? Was it the atmosphere?

Unfortunately, it was all these things. The place wasn’t very full, and judging from the tunes it was no wonder. Such favorites as “Burn Rubber” by the Gap Band and “Stepping Out” by Kool and the Gang blared out of a pair of beautiful Klipsch speakers. What a waste! Were we at Queens? Salem? Converse? No, the girls were too hard to pick up here. This could be only one place... the legendary 900 Room. A large sign had been placed above the stage which read WARNER HALL. But we knew Warner Hall and wondered why anyone would throw a disco for him? He can’t even do the “Bus Stop”!

There had to be some reason for this sign, but we couldn’t figure it out. Sam Spencer boogied by. We asked him about it, but he replied, “I don’t know, I only come here for the cheap beer.” A girl, with an alarming number of add-a-beads, overheard us and informed us that it was the name of the new girl’s eating house. We inquired if the name was actually Warner Hall or Warmer Hall or what? And we wondered if we should call these girls Warner Hallies or plain Hallies or Warnerettes?

Next Week Booze Brothers Review Domestic Beer

We started thinking about how screwy this place was getting. Like why are there now two Belk dorms? Why does Will Terry put his arm around everyone and smile? And what are all these bricks for? Who the hell’s in charge around here anyway—Bill Bolding?!

Our train of thought was broken by a nauseous rendition of “Brick House” so we headed to the SAE house only to be totally disgusted by an even more nauseous live version of “Brick House” and a hodgepodge of clothes with colors not found in nature. Thank God!

If anyone has seen booze bro. at large, Jimmy Hawk, please let us know. He’s still armed with Bud and very drunk, so be careful.

Disco Update: Who cares?
Next week: Are nuclear wars winnable? An in-depth look with the Booze Brothers.

$3.50

ALL YOU CAN EAT SPAGHETTI, PIZZA, SALAD
BROAD ST. MOORESVILLE, NC

SAT. NIGHT SPECIAL:

Complete Cosmetics ° Sundries ° Greeting

REXALL DRUGS

“Serving Davidson For Sixteen Years”
131 N. Main Street © Davidson, N.C.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 April 1982