To the Editor:

By winning the N.C.A.I.A.W. state championships last weekend, the women’s tennis team qualified for the A.I.A.W. regional tournament to be held in Martin, Tennessee on May 13-15. We requested that the college fly them to the tournament for the following reasons:

1) Martin is 550 miles away; a thirteen-hour trip (including two meal and two gas stops).

2) Since we will play an average of four matches a day, a thirteen-hour drive might detract from our performance.

3) Perhaps the most important factor is our academic performance. By representing Davidson in the regionals, we will miss the last two days of class and one exam day. Although we don’t gain any class time by flying, we would gain important study time. By flying, we would return to Davidson Sunday morning after a good night's sleep; by driving we would return Sunday evening probably tired from the long drive.

4) Money has been allocated for Coach Miller’s transportation, therefore the money we are requesting is only for seven players’ plane tickets (7 x $153.50 equals $1,074.50).

5) We believe supporting a successful women’s athletic team would be a positive reflection on Davidson and our athletic department.

Yesterday, Athletic Director Farrell denied this request. After studying our proposal, he did not feel that he could justify the expenditure. He felt that since we would leave and return on the same days, the ten hours saved by flying would make little difference in our preparation for exams. Farrell believes that “it would be nice” if we could fly, but that driving is not too much of a hardship. He also mentioned that he did not want to set a precedent for other teams wanting money by approving our flight.

Editor: Stewart Cauley
Executive Editor: Brian Butler
News Editor: David Resnik
Assistant News Editor: John Richards

We realize that Davidson, through the Trustees, places greater emphasis on basketball and football than on minor sports. It seems unfortunate, however, that Davidson cannot at least make exceptions when, through extenuating circumstances, the situation demands special attention. Rather than cause them to make either financial or academic sacrifices, Davidson should be proud and therefore supportive of its successful athletes.

Although the athletic department denied our request, the tennis team will fly to the regionals next Tuesday.

Should we have to pay for our success?

The Women’s Tennis Team

To the Editor:

I would like to bring to the attention of the faculty the absurdity of what happened this past week. Dr. Williamson required his Bio 21 class to type their papers into the computer. Do you know how much sense that makes?—None! These students, many of whom had no interest in using the computer for their papers, were tying up the terminal at times when Math students, who had no alternative but to use that equipment, truly needed use of the computer. Now, if the Bio 21 students wanted to use the terminals, fine, but requiring them to, whether they wanted to or not, is pointless, counterproductive, and a needless monopolization of very necessary equipment. I would hope that Dr. Williamson and the rest of the faculty will refrain from requiring papers to be typed into the terminals in the future.

Jeffrey A. Tyler

Associate News Editor: Jeff Mann
Sports Editor: Steven Soud
Opinions Editor: Danny Armistead
Calendar Editor: Susan Graves
Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams
Photo Editor: Elizabeth Elkin

Photography Staff: Randy Stroud, Kelly Sundberg, Anderson Scott, Mark Sheffield

Production: Lisa Boardman, Jeff Herrin, Ann Meador, John Lusk, James Rozzelle

Staff: Andy Wilson, John Hartman, John Glance, John Verdi, Jeff Holland, Dianna Bohrer, Peter Gulyn, Alessandro Vitelli, Debbie Eisenbise, Jeff Hamilton, Matt Merrill, Elizabeth Smiley, Thurston Hatcher, Jim Troutman, Linda Hulburt, Scott Huie, Scott Beaver

Foreign Correspondent: Andy Miller, Chris Marshburn, John Stipp

Editor Emeritus: Elizabeth Kiss

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone 704/892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $10 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage no. USPS 149-300.

Advertising Manager: Karis Herrnstein

New Blood: Mark