Ann Meador ‘85

Crash and Burn

1. A man sitting in a chair in a bare room. We do not do anything, we merely observe him. Some time passes until we approach him. “What are you waiting for?” we ask. Suddenly we have a clear view of his face, looking straight at us. He gives a tense laugh and says, “Me? I’m waiting for the BIG one.”

2. A piece of note paper with a girl’s simple handwriting on it. The note is held to a noteboard by a tack which also holds up a “Bull’s Eye” pocket watch on a string. The watch is frozen at 7:20. The message reads:

Dear Tom,

I am so sorry to hear that you have broken both hands since my last letter.

Get well soon,
Susan

3. A crowd of people talking; to the left, off-camera, someone drops a bunch of dishes. Everyone turns and looks left, except for one guy whose head whirls in the opposite direction.

4. The dining table, bare save for one or two trays. One person slides a glass across the table. Camera follows the glass to the edge where it smoothly flies out into space and plunges to the floor. The camera follows its fall—and a hand reaches out and catches it. Freeze.

5. A balloon, blown up to its absolute maximum capacity. A knitting needle is poking at the balloon, lightly at first, but then more intently, missing and grazing. We pause for something else of equal importance. We come back and the needle is poking at the balloon more fervently now, grazing it, building suspense. We pause once more for some other message. Back once again, the needle is jabbing at the balloon with frantic gestures. We hope that this guy will botch the whole job and go away, but we also desire that he will indeed hit it, and so release our tension in one big bang. Suddenly, the needle hits the balloon. Pow.

6. A man walks up to a gasoline pump laughing quietly to himself. He picks up the pump and squeezes the handle as hard as he can. Gas comes gushing out. He immediately holds up a long, flaming match to the spout. A woman holding her baby screams.

James Funsten ‘83

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 5 November 1982

23