Dr. Williamson to Study
the Aging Process

Receives Grant From the
Research Corporation of N.Y.C.

“It’s widely believed that aging is a genetically determined biological process, but it’s never been proven,” says Dr. John H. Williamson. And the Research Corporation of New York City has given him a $10,000 grant to try to prove it.

Williamson, chairman of Davidson’s biology department, says that there are two theories pertaining to the aging process. The first theory suggests that aging is simply the result of “biological insults”—wear and tear on the body in everyday life resulting from such things as overexertion or from getting too much sun (“Sure it looks nice now,” he says, “but you pay the price later”). The other more favored genetic theory is that aging is a developmental process or inherited trait.

Williamson believes that the evidence that people are born with the aging process built into our chromosomes is much stronger. The genetic concept has only become clearer over more recent generations: the aging genes were not expressed for a long period of time because people had shorter life spans, but the last generations have had a chance to express them.

“What I want,” says Williamson, “is to use a model system in which we have a lot of genetic control.” The obvious example of this, he says, is the Drosophila. With the Drosophila, he will find long-living and short-living strains, and then he will observe the development profile of NADP enzymes in each.

The main question Williamson asks, therefore, is “Does aging express itself biochemically?”

With his grant from the Research Corporation’s Cottrell College Science Program fund, Williamson has purchased equipment and hired a student to assist him. The money will also go to breed thousands of the Drosophila.

Williamson is finishing his first year at Davidson. He graduated from N.C. State in 1960 and received his master’s degree from Cornell. He taught at the University of Calgary in Canada for twelve years before coming to Davidson.

An important aspect of the grant is that it includes a stipend for a student research position. “I want to have students,” says Williamson. “I think it’s important. A goal of the department is to involve students in the research programs.”

Williamson neither expects nor intends for his project to have a profound effect on our knowledge of the aging process and what we can do to alter it or to slow it down. “We know so little about aging,” he says. “We need to accumulate a bank of knowledge about what the aging process really is.”

Thurston Hatcher

Continued from page 9

A: I think you really have to do both. It is unfortunate, but the weight of the statistical evidence from a variety of sources shows that younger people, aged fifteen to nineteen, just aren’t able to mix alcohol and driving. The accident rate among them is greatly out of proportion to their number in the driving population. Their access to alcohol has got to be as restricted as society can possibly make it. Part of the problem one wants to solve with this type of legislation is not only the denial of alcohol to those eighteen to twenty, but also to those younger. Common experience is that the fifteen-year-old gets the eighteen-year-old to buy it for him, the sixteen-year-old gets the nineteen-year-old to buy it for him, and so on. And while it has traditionally been illegal for those under sixteen to consume alcohol, it has been easier for them to get it when their immediate older peers have access to it.

Q: Don’t you think, though, that it is a bit unfair that the people whom the legislature affects have the least amount of power to act against it?

A: They have just as much power as I do. I’m forty-one, they’re eighteen; I can vote, they can vote. The fact is, they don’t exercise their right to vote as often.

Sherman Allen ‘82 and Janet Stovall ‘85

expanded the traditional book club into a completely new and unique:

SAVE 20-40%
ON ANY BOOK IN PRINT

Save up to 80%
on selected titles
NO GIMMICKS
NO HIDDEN CHARGES
AND NO HARD SELL
Just low, low prices every day of the year; unlimited choice of books; and fast, efficient, personal service on every order.

ACADEMIC BOOK CLUB
Vincent, New York 13618-0300

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 April 1982