Even extracts from the lives of trained animals allowed untrained animals to run mazes as if they had been trained.
Thus, despite the efforts of biological researchers to describe certain memorial phenomena in literal terms of biochemical and physiological events
leading to the formation of an "memory trace," the results of such studies are equivocal at best. Even when the
effect does occur, it is almost always a small one, and there is no clear pattern of success or failure.
While the fact that something hasn’t been proven yet is no reason to believe it doesn’t exist, often in psychology,
when an effect is obtained, it is usually because the wrong sorts of questions are being asked.

This protracted discussion of rats, excisions, mazes, and RNA molecules serves to illustrate, at a very molecular level, the common
conception of memory as the retrieval from some sort of container within the brain of an actual, physical object that
has somehow been placed or stored in a container. Cognitive psychology, by definition the study of human mental activity, usually
deals with this issue at the level of rational awareness, rather than at the level of physiological processes, but it
is important to realize that the notion of memory as a stored, retrieved “thing” underlies the argument in all its
inceptions.

For example, Elizabeth Loftus, on the basis of the finding that subjects take longer to confirm the statement “A collie
is a dog” than to confirm “A collie is a living thing,” argues that memory is a stored hierarchy of
noun categories arranged in ascending order of generality (i.e., collie—dog—animal—living thing). Similarly, but at a higher level of analysis, Roger
Schank argues that memory consists of a stored set of “scripts” which encode the essential objects, actions, and actors in
stereotypical situations. For example, a “restaurant script” includes as objects tables, chairs, utensils, menus, and food; its actors include waitresses
and cooks; its actions include entering the restaurant, ordering food, eating, paying, and leaving. If subjects are presented with a
short piece of prose about eating at a restaurant, upon recall, those slots in the script that have not been
explicitly “filled” will tend to be inferred as having been present; thus, the presence of a waitress will tend to
be inferred whether one was explicitly mentioned or not.

Both Loftus’s and Schank’s theories have a number of failings, but the point at issue here should be clear: no
matter what the level of analysis may be, the notion that the brain is a container underlies all of our
common conceptions about memory. One of the central tenets of Dr. Brockway’s theory is that this storage/container metaphor may not
necessarily be the best characterization of the phenomena we wish to explain, and may, in fact, have placed severe constraints
on the types of questions we can ask about the workings of memory. Specifically, it has led us to look
for structures that seem to underlie memory, when, in fact, a more important question may concern the function, or activity,
of this structure. Just as the act of addition is not the answer one possesses after one has performed the
requisite operations, so the act of remembering does not in any sense consist of the thing that one remembers. Dr.
Brockway’s position represents an attempt to recast these very questions of structure into questions of function, and he does this
through the creation of a new metaphor.

In place of the storage/container metaphor, Dr. Brockway proposes the notion of inferences as memory as a new metaphor for
cognitive psychology. In the present context, an inference can be defined as the activity by which one changes his position
or state of knowledge in ways that tend to account for or causally explain a situation. Note that this definition
distinguishes inference from other modes of thinking. For example, I deduce from the worn condition of the tire that it
will not last the journey, but I infer from the worn condition of the tire that the wheel is misaligned.
Nor is inference induction, since induction is in its essence an attempt at prediction. As White (1971) argues, “Inferences, but
not predictions, explain what has happened; predictions, but not inferences, forecast what will happen” (p. 293). Furthermore, inferences are all-or-none
state changes. For White, to make an inference is “neither to journey toward nor to arrive at or to be
in a certain position”; rather “it is the taking of B as a result of reflection.”on A... "It is not
something we could start or stop doing, or be interrupted at" (pp. 289-291). In Brockway’s scheme, inference is an all-or-none
leap from one state of knowledge (noncomprehension) to a qualitatively different state of knowledge (comprehension), a leap which parallels, at
least in a crude way, the activities involved in memory, since, on a given trial in a memory experiment, one
either remembers or one does not. Similarly, as Bransford and Johnson (1974) have shown, it is extremely difficult to remember
something that you cannot comprehend. Nor is this new state of knowledge something from which one can easily return to
naiveté. Suppose, for instance, I ask you to forget the letter A. Many aspects of memory, most notably the utter
inability to undergo such directed forgetting, seem to point to asymmetrical activities in memory. Dr. Brockway sees the metaphor of
inferences as memory as superior to the storage/container metaphor in two respects. First, it accounts for the generative, active nature
of memory. "An inference is at once probabilistic and rich in its essence, in the sense that no two people
need draw the same inference from the same set of facts, though some inferences are more likely to be drawn
than others. For example, upon hearing the eerie sound, one individual may infer the presence of a snake along the
path to the stable, another may infer that a horsefly was the biting agent, and yet another may infer that
she was bitten by a horse when she got there. More commonly, consider the party game 'Gossip,' in which one
person whispers a story to the person adjacent to him, who, in turn, whispers it to the next person, and
so on, around the circle. The last person’s rendition of the story is likely to contain a number of embellishments
and deletions of the original facts, but these errors are commonly errors of detail rather than of content. In other
words, meaning, rather than lexical form, is preserved in memory for discourse. For Dr. Brockway, memory is a special way
of knowing, one that has as its base comprehension. And when we speak of comprehension, we commonly refer to understanding
the meaning of something, rather than to the ability to parrot the particular set of words used to express this
meaning. The storage/container metaphor, Dr. Brockway argues, makes no allowance for the ability to go beyond the information, as noted
in the examples above. Second, the notion of inferences as memory is superior to the storage/container metaphor in that it
escapes the criticism of dispositionality. Basically, a dispositional argument is description in the guise of explanation, as when one attempts
to explain rationality as the product of a “rational faculty,” or hunger as the product of an “appetitive faculty.” In
neither case is the explanatory construct subject to verification apart from the behavior it was created to explain. Also, dispositional
arguments always seem to point beyond themselves in an infinite regress. Just when we feel we are close to explanation
within the storage/container paradigm, some experimental anomaly necessitates the creation of a new mechanism to explain the failings of the
last. But the creation of new mechanisms does not solve the problem; it merely delays it. For example, psychologists first
posited the existence of “primary” and “secondary” memory. Then, certain experimental findings demanded the existence of iconic stores, echoic stores,
short-term memory, long-term memory, semantic memory, episodic memory, attentional filters, and buffer states; furthermore, within every one of these stores,
there are assumed to be at least three different “levels of processing.” The list of stores is long, and it
is not inconceivable that anomalies could arise which would necessitate the further proliferation of these constructs. Inferences, unlike containers, seem
not to be dispositional. First, they are not the product of some container, but an activity the existence of which
can be evaluated apart from any container. While, within the old paradigm, we perform experiments only on the basis of
the assumption that something is stored, under the new metaphor, we can state conclusively within the bounds of a given
experiment whether an inference has occurred or not. As Dr. Brockway (1981) states, “In a scientifically acceptable way, the process
of knowing about inferences is in the domain of analysis of inferences.” Secondly, experimental anomalies in the study of inference
are likely to result in a refinement of definitions and methods of study, rather than a proliferation of inference types.
Dr. Brockway, in a paper delivered earlier this year...
