Moreland Hogan’s Briarpatch

The Miscellany is neat. Have you ever looked at it and wondered why? It is a neat little book because
Moreland Hogan did not follow the right-hand road to “Oz” via big business as do so many college graduates. Rather,
he opted for the left-hand road riding a magnificent white obsession named craftsmanship. Craftsmanship, by the way, is an amorphous
abstract demanding the small business medium which many of us conveniently ignore, perhaps for its lack of financial security. We
are all the better for Professor Hogan’s decision, even if merely for the briefly felt though unperceived pleasure of the
neat binding pressing into our palms, even if merely for the seen but unnoticed delight of the clean, black letters
blinking coyly from creamy pages.

If one saunters down Depot Street and peers through the windows of the Briarpatch Press, one will notice a great
many black mechanical monstrosities peering right back. Boxes of potential literary delights crouch about the floor, playfully imitating the heavier
printing organs scattered around the shop. Older machinery, Professor Hogan mentions fondly, is suitable for the small editions which his
shop publishes. His press, for example, is a 1963 Heidelberg, a “Mercedes” of a press. Other hoary elders loafing about
the shop include a 1927 page folder, a rather ancient-looking binding-sewer, and an 1892 paper cutter. A modern typesetting machine,
film processor, page-folder, and pasting machine complete the corps of engines.

The Briarpatch Press uniqueness resides in part in its size. It is basically a two-person operation managed by Hogan and
his wife. The number of copies produced in any one edition ranges from 50 to 1000, and the books are
primarily distributed through the mail according to the Briarpatch’s ever-growing mailing list. As well as being a small business, the
Press provides an avenue of publication for local authors as it caters primarily to books of local history and poetry.
Briarpatch is dear to the literary life of Davidson College as it has published Pocahontas and the Drunken Waiter and
The Ghost in the Dog Trot, books of poetry by Dr. J. Gill Holland and Dr. J. S. Winkler respectively,
as well as Dr. Mary Beaty’s Davidson: A History of the Town from 1835 until 1937 and a forthcoming new
edition of Dr. Chalmers Davidson’s The Plantation World Around Davidson. Briarpatch publications also include the Davidson Miscellany; a book by
Ovid Pierce, The Plantation, illustrated by Professor Herb Jackson; and a collection of Professor Hogan’s own work called The Village
Green.

In broader perspective, Briarpatch Press services a large community with its publication of the biannual Southern Poetry Review and Briarpatch,
a small magazine boasting local history and literature as regular features.

Along with Moreland and Priscilla Hogan, three Davidson-affiliated employees help part-time to run Briarpatch Press. Mrs. Zhenia Moroson, wife of
music professor Vlad Moroson, typesets, a job which takes from a few days to two months depending on the length
of the book. Two Davidson students, Bret Logan and Carol Impara, work there as well. Briarpatch’s limited size and workforce
render the shop all the more exceptional as it has, only in the past year, acquired the capacity to produce
a finished product from manuscript form without the work ever leaving the shop itself.

A great deal of experience supports Hogan’s Briarpatch endeavors. A native of New Orleans, he graduated from Rice University. His
history between that time and the present includes posts as professor at Davidson from 1963 through 1965 and at Wofford
College, editor at UNC Press, managing editor at University of Georgia Press, and editor-in-chief at UNC Press. Since 1972 Hogan
has been in business typesetting, printing, and publishing. Briarpatch Press actually emerged in Chapel Hill in 1974 with the publication
of An Original Sun, a book of poetry by Eugene Platt. Two years later Briarpatch arrived in Davidson where Hogan
became “permanent visiting lecturer,” teaching and enjoying.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982
