Windows Shattered

Besides Chitty, several students in Belk complained about their windows being shattered, possibly by some sort of pellet gun.

According to Housing Director Bill Bolding, these incidents and others have occurred “off and on since last month.” The shootings have been confined to the area between Belk, Cannon, and Watts. Bolding has no idea as to the type of gun being used.

Fortunately, he reports that there have been no complaints since a notice concerning the incidents was posted. Anyone with information is asked to contact Mr. Bolding.

House Decision Pending

The decision on the fate of the Richards and Bailey houses is expected from Dr. Spencer today. Dr. Spencer is still considering options for the eating houses such as converting the houses into student housing and basing international education centers in them. Kathy Kooken, Anne Rollins, and Jane Alexanian have launched a letter-writing campaign to convert one of the houses into a new all-women’s eating house as recommended by both the Committee on Campus and Religious Life and the SGA. The CCRL also recommended that the other house be converted for use by the Black Student Coalition. President Spencer said that the top three options for the houses are an all-women’s eating house, BSC, and student housing.

Traffic Court Revival

Tim Johnston, chairman of the Security and Grounds Committee of the SGA, reports that Captain Jackie Hughes has welcomed a proposal to reestablish the now defunct traffic court. This court would have the power to void campus parking tickets when appealed. Although there have been only a small number of appeals this year, Johnston believes that the court would provide a “visible means” for people to complain about parking violations. Details about the membership of the court and student defenders and prosecutors have not been arranged.

College Bowlers Make Nationals

Davidson’s College Bowl team has been invited to the national finals. The team’s record to date is 12-2, overcoming such opponents as Wake Forest, Berry College, Duke, Furman, and Clemson. Members of the team are Brad Mullis (’83), Marvin Overby (’83), Gordon Turnbull (’83), John Eglin (’84), and alternate Tim Waples (’85). The team is coached by Dr. Hansford Epes. Last year’s team finished second in the National championship. CBS Radio has taped all previous tournaments and broadcasts them weekly over CBS affiliates.

Freshmen Conduct Open Forum

Recently, the six freshmen senators conducted an open forum for the freshman class. The issues discussed centered around the Commons, the laundry, and the self-selection system. The feeling of most of these freshmen was positive on these matters. According to Rod Holman, one of the senators, the open discussion was designed to “provide freshmen with a better understanding” of problems facing them as well as to hear complaints. The other students representing the freshman class were Meg Surratt, Joe Langley, Craig Detweiler, Jim Reeves, and Warren Gould. Plans for another open discussion in the spring term are now being made. Contact your freshman senators for more details.

Fijis Agree to Noise Proposals

The Fijis have agreed to be subject to the College’s noise ordinance proposal, Fiji President Jim Troutman said. “The Sigeps have not decided whether they should come under the campus regulation or something else,” said SPE President Ralph Taylor. Mayor Nancy McCormack expects the town to make a definite decision on the proposal within a week.

305 N. MAIN STREET DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036

NEW GARFIELD POSTERS AND POSTCARDS NOW AVAILABLE

Gallery

FINE PRINTS ART SUPPLIES CUSTOM FRAMING

SUSAN D. ABBOTT

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 5 February 1982