riences; to organize activities in which the international students can interact with Davidson students, and increase cultural exposure, and to
use this committee as a medium for student awareness of world issues. More than this, we would like to contribute
and to be active rather than passive participants in the realization of those goals. We do not seek self-importance but
to fulfill the potential for more international dinners, presentations, open luncheons, speeches, and combined programs with other schools on a
more regular basis. We feel that by taking responsibility ourselves, we can considerably contribute to this. There is really no
“international committee confusion.” On the contrary, we are grateful and enthusiastic about the inspiration that initiated it. We thank everyone
who worked for this committee and we are optimistic about its potential for the future.

Signed: The International Students

To the Editor:

The recent poem entitled “poem from between my thighs,” created by Janet Stovall in Hobart Park, is the subject of
this letter. I am violently opposed to this poem on three grounds. In the first place, I don’t believe that
Hobart Park is the proper place for a lucid description of a female orgasm. Her type of work is evidently
meant for the writer, and not for the reader; and thus it is not genuine poetry. It is obviously something
very personal to her and should be something she should put up in her room so that she can reflect
upon it herself, not advertise her sexual forays to the student body at Davidson College.

In the second place, I have never heard that it is necessary for a white female to experience orgasm as
a prerequisite for creating works of art and literature, more specifically poetry. I personally take great pride in the achievements
and contributions which my race has made to civilization. I also believe that the black race has the right to
be proud of the contributions which their race has made to world culture. However, the author is making a racist
attack upon female members of the white race by assuming that black women are more sensitive or can feel more
deeply about reality than white women. By this assumption, she concludes that poetry composed by black women combined with the
inspiration caused by an orgasm is a superior art form.

Finally, Hobart Park is funded by the Activities Tax Council, whose source of money is my tuition. My tuition thus
awarded a $20 first prize to this poem. I do not advocate censorship, but I believe that a majority of
students feel that a little more discretion could have been used in regard to this poem. And to award it
first prize is a crowning blow of disgrace to the entire situation, implying that sexist, racist poems are valuable works
of art to be honored in Hobart Park.

Tripp Robinson ’83

Hobart Park editor David Banks replies:

Take it easy. Janet’s poem is not about orgasms or sexism or racial supremacy or contributions to civilization or pornography
or prerequisites for begetting literature. Instead, she describes an intense feeling, an overpowering emotion in such a way as to
invite the reader to appreciate the sensation himself. Recall an emotion. Put it into words. Does it defy verbal description?
Is it so powerful that you can, at best, only use a vivid metaphor to summon the image? If you
didn’t find this in theHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Poem, take another look or else: you will have missed some terrific writing. Does she stereotype? Look: beyond it. Does
she use generic body-words? At a college of 18 to 22-year-olds it’s a bit odd that familiar topics like crotches,
blacks, whites, and musk have any shock effect. Hobart Park is a collection of all kinds of original and even
personal stuff that some students collect from other students and show still other students. These people are classmates who are
your own age. They write things and draw things and let you see them. What distresses me is that someone
who shares her profound and intimate experiences with fellow students can be derided and castigated for sharing them, and that
someone who objects to a contribution would prefer to have been shielded from it altogether. There is hardly a quicker
way to stifle and stuff emerging creativity.

David Banks ’82

~The Davidsonian welcomes letters from our readers. We try to print all letters that are of general interest, but we
adhere to these four guidelines:
1. We require that letters be in our hands by Tuesday 7 p.m.
2. We require that letters be neatly typed.
3. We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, explain it.
4. The Davidsonian does not in any way endorse the opinions expressed in letters that we print.

Stewart Cauley, Editor

The Academic Book Club has expanded the traditional book club into a completely new and unique concept. SAVE 20% ON
ANY BOOK IN PRINT. Save up to 50% on selected titles. NO GIMMICKS, NO HIDDEN CHARGES, AND NO HARD SELL.
Enjoy low, low prices every day of the year; unlimited choice of books; and fast, efficient, personal service on every
order.

ACADEMIC BOOK CLUB
USA: Cape Vincent, New York 13618-0399
Canada: 105 Wellington St, Kingston, Ontario K7L 5C7
Europe: 4891, 1005 AP Amsterdam, Netherlands
Africa: P.O. Box 49, Ilaro, Ogun State, Nigeria.

Dear ABC,
Please tell me, without any obligation on my part, how I can order for myself and for my friends, anywhere
in the world, any book in print, from any publisher, from any country, in almost any language. Tell me in
addition how I can save 20-40% on these books by joining the ACADEMIC BOOK CLUB and paying as low as
1 cent daily ($6.50 annually). I understand that one of the features of the club is that I am not
now, nor will I ever be, under any obligation whatsoever to buy any particular book or quantity of books.

Photographers: Anderson Scott, Randy Stroud, Neil Cooksey, Eric Long, Kelly Sundberg
Staff: Mark Sheffield, John Hartman, Lucy Everett, Jeff Holland, John Verdi, Anne Goodwin, John Krotchko, John Lusk, Lisa Buckley, Ivy
Goodman
Graphics: Susan Myers
Editor: Stewart Cauley
Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams
Advertising Manager: Karis Hernstein
Executive Editor: Brian Butler
Calendar Editor: Susan Graves
Old Hand: Killer
News Editors: Jeffrey Mann, Elizabeth Smiley
Photo Editor: Elizabeth Elkin
Sports Editor: Steve Soud
Staff Writers: Dan Turk, John Glynn, and others

USPS 148-020
The Davidsonian / Friday 12 February 1982
