Continued from page . Faculty Committee. Poe was not re-hired when his four-year contract expired this year. Although the proposed committee would not have been involved in his case, he backed the proposal because it would pool more information about candidates and would therefore probably be more accurate. “It’s a more desirable system,” Poe said, “in spite of all the problems it might bring.”

PAC member Lance Stell said the committee ought to be essential to the faculty’s role in the College: “The faculty doesn’t have any self-respect if it doesn’t think that important function is its own.” Zimmermann also supported the proposed committee as fulfilling a natural function of the faculty. “It is appropriate for the faculty to participate in the process of maintaining high standards for faculty membership at Davidson.”

Except for “vague references to faculty dissatisfaction in past decisions,” Stell said discussion of the need for more faculty voice did not include criticism of specific administration decisions. “The question is not whether the President and Dean are doing a bad job. The question is whether it is appropriate for them to have this power,” Abbott pointed out.

Many of the proposal’s opponents felt that the proposed committee would entail more costs than benefits for the faculty. They feared that the committee would break down collegiality and trust, so important in a small faculty like Davidson’s. The existence of a committee would create a gap between senior and junior faculty members, making untenured professors feel they needed to “perform” before more judges. Humanities Professor Pat Edmondson said the committee would “compound the ambiguity” of a young professor’s position, who, in trying to determine his chances for reappointment or tenure, would have to analyze the judgment of five professors in addition to that of the administration.

Zimmermann did not think a committee would change the amount of anxiety among young professors. “Anxiety is the natural accompaniment of any probationary situation,” he said.

Another danger opponents of the proposal pointed out is that the committee could politicize the faculty, creating factions which would use the committee for political ends. One reaction was that, while “everyone admits that the Davidson faculty is not now politicized,” a committee could lead to politicization. Some faculty members cited personal experiences with politicized faculty tenure committees, while others reported that in their experience such committees had been taken too seriously to become politicized.

Confidentiality was a major concern of the proposal’s opponents, who charged that increasing the number of persons with access to personnel files increases the danger of breaches of confidentiality. Many professors argued that confidentiality is already a problem at Davidson. Concerns about confidentiality demonstrate that faculty members do not trust each other, according to Stell. “The collegiality they worry so much about protecting doesn’t exist—There is deep-seated suspicion of each other’s ability to be confidential, serious, and professional on such a committee.” “A lot of people point blank don’t trust their colleagues,” Abbott said, “and think they’re not capable of doing a professional job.”

Another major bone of contention for opponents of the proposed committee was that faculty members would be judging colleagues in other fields. A member of the committee would have to disqualify himself from reviewing candidates in his own department. Some argued that only those in the same discipline can truly judge a professor’s professional qualifications. Not all opponents...Of the proposal actually disagreed with the idea of such a committee, however. Some did not accept specific provisions of the PAC proposal. It could have been these faculty members who contributed the most to the proposal’s drastic change of fortune. At the faculty’s first reading of the proposal two months ago, when it required a simple majority vote to remain under consideration, it had passed by a wide margin, 54-26.

The proposed committee would have held a purely advisory role. Some faculty members objected that this was not enough power to justify having a committee. Edmondson pointed out that, since the committee was bound to confidentiality, it could not make its decision public even if it had been overridden, so that “committee members could be implicated in a decision they did not support.” Such limitations on the committee’s power would make it seem like a “front organization,” she added.

Some faculty members also objected to the proposed committee’s three options in its decisions: “recommend,” “recommend with reservations,” and “not recommend.” They considered the middle option meaningless and hence a betrayal of the committee’s purpose.

Does last week’s defeat indicate that such a proposal is hopeless? PAC members do not seem to think so. “I hope a future PAC will learn from the points of contention. The accountability and authority of the committee are definitely areas that need more work,” Eppes said. “It will definitely come up again,” Stell said, “but not for a long time.”

Elizabeth Kiss ‘83

Students Play Guinea Pig

Under the rise of Dr. Parke of Charlotte Memorial Hospital, 125 subjects from the Davidson community received an injection of polyvalent (multi-component) pneumococcal vaccine to determine which components are most effective. In four weeks, all the subjects will return to the infirmary to have a second blood sample taken, which will be compared with one taken at the time of injection to test the response of antibodies to the vaccine.

Dr. Parke, who has been in clinical vaccine research for 12 years, is working through the Bacterial Products Division of the Food and Drug Administration, but his funding has come through other outside sources. Dr. Parke hopes to determine which pneumococcal strains would be best used in the vaccine. The vaccine used now needs to be effective against more pneumococcal types and needs to be more stable, Parke said.

Dr. Parke said he would like to express his gratitude and delight at the tremendous response to the request for subjects. “We had all the people we needed in a matter of a few days,” Parke said. Subjects received $35 as a gratuity and to cover any expenses incurred by the subject. Dr. Parke urges everyone who received the vaccine to remember to return for their second appointment at the end of April.

Jeff Holland ‘84

Summer Camp Counselors

For Orange Presbytery Camps (Presbyterian Point Camp - $100 per week (May 21 - July 31). For application, write G. Wilson Gunn, Orange Presbytery Camps, PO Box 2874, Durham, NC 27705 or call 682-5558 during office hours. Also see the placement office at your school.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982