Yes, Yes
Nanette

Beardon Dancers Shine

The Nanette Beardon Contemporary Dance Theater graced Davidson’s campus this past Tuesday, and their performance was warmly received despite sparse attendance. This well-rounded all-black company from New York is directed by Nanette Beardon, the wife of well-known visual artist and recipient of a Davidson Honorary degree, Romare Beardon.

The company presented a varied and stimulating program which opened with a contemporary jazz number entitled “For Stan,” which made for a highly energetic and exciting start. The program hit its only low with the second piece, “Conquistador,” which was both danced and choreographed by Rommel Reaux. Mr. Reaux is an accomplished dancer with wonderful stage presence, but his downfall was in his choreography which started out slowly, and much to the audience’s dismay remained so. He repeatedly built up to climaxes he never seemed to hit. Boring choreography aside, it was delightful to watch a dancer with such a precise and beautiful technique as Mr. Reaux’s.

The first half of the show closed with “Threshold,” danced by the women of the company. It opened with the reading of a poem which dealt with feelings of pride and unity. As the women danced individually and in unison they portrayed a strong affirmation of Black solidarity.

The second half of the program opened with a pas de deux entitled “I Love The Lord,” danced by Michelle Saranne and Alfred Dove. The piece presented a new version of the story of Adam and Eve in which Adam resists the apple. Mr. Dove danced with radiating intensity which tended to overshadow Ms. Saranne at times, but together they were beautiful. The piece was very touching, joyful, and full of sensitivity.

The show closed with “A & S,” an exciting, high-energy jazz number danced by the entire company with music by Ashford and Simpson. The piece was performed with a wonderful flair characteristic of the company.

On the whole, the program was a pure delight. Brilliant direction and highly talented, energetic young dancers added up to nothing less than wonderful. The company will be returning to North Carolina in October, providing a future cultural opportunity for an exciting evening which should not be missed.

Beth Geiger ’84

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 April 1982