. potential—a latent excellence or ability that may or may not be developed.

That word says an awful lot about the 1981-82 Davidson basketball team. They are a team of untapped potential. They’ve
started to get it all together, and although, baby, they’ve come a long way, oh baby! they can go so
much farther.

While most of us students were off relaxing at home, the basketball team stayed in Davidson and worked hard, and
some of the frayed ends finally started coming together. The results for the most part were fantastic.

The Citadel

The season didn’t bring happy greetings to the Cats as they visited Charleston, S.C., home of the Citadel. “It was
our poorest performance for 40 minutes this year. We couldn’t do anything right,” said Coach Bobby Hussey. The Wildcats executed
poorly and for the most part their decisions were poor. The only thing that saved their dignity was effort.

“We gave good effort. Effort alone caused us to be close enough at the end to have won.”

And as the clock wore down, the Cats were well within reach of the game despite a 39% first half
shooting percentage and over twenty turnovers. With 1:40 left Bulldog center Wells Holland hit a pair of free throws that
became the difference in the 49-47 contest. Davidson had plenty of time to score but couldn’t.

Duke

Yes, Davidson, there is a Santa Claus; and on December 29, he gave the Wildcats a very welcome gift. It
was the first DC victory over an ACC team since an upset win over Wake Forest in 1979, and it
earned the Cats a trip to the finals of the Iron Duke Classic.

“We played well, especially defensively,” said miracle worker Hoste.

That ended up giving Duke an eight-point advantage at the half. The Blue Devils padded the lead to 11, but
after that it was all Davidson. John Carroll, Tom Franz, and Kenny Wilson all made key steals, and Wilson went
on the rampage. In the second half, he hit on 10 of 12 field attempts and sucked in 10 caroms
en route to 24 points. Jamie Hall came up with three blocks at critical times to keep Duke off the
scoreboard.

Then Cliff Tribus took the spotlight. With 2:16 left, the big junior connected on a pair of free throws giving
Davidson a 69-66 lead. Duke battled back to tie several times, and with :05 left Blue Devil star Vince Taylor
hit an incredible shot to tie the game at 73. After a Wildcat timeout, they worked their last-ditch effort. Rich
Wilson completed the inbounds to Carroll who drove the lane and dished off to Tribus. Tribus hit the 18' jumper
with no time on the clock.

Happiest of all was Kenny Wilson, chosen to the all-tourney team and who got in a line Duke.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 15 January 1982

William and Mary

The finale faced Davidson against former SC foe William and Mary, upset victors over a surprised Auburn club.

William and Mary is a very experienced team with a lot of experience. They are patient and execute well. Hence
the low-scoring game. Davidson couldn’t hit the outside shot and thus couldn’t crack a tight zone defense.

Again the game came down to a last-second shot, but this time no one could seem to get it in
the hoop as Davidson blew two shots and a tap. W&M 46, DC 44.

Furman

The new year brought good fortune and good play Davidson’s way as they hosted Furman in the Mausoleum. The Paladins
were chosen second in the preseason coaches’ poll, but in all due fairness to Eddie Holbrook’s team, they’re playing without
the talents of last year’s Freshman of the Year, George Singleton.

“We caught Furman a little bit flat at the beginning,” said Hussey. Sound Wildcat defense dug the Paladin hole deeper,
as the final score was 73-55.
