Davidson’s Concert Choir

A Personal Account

Our tour began the Friday morning after the exam period ended. Fifty-five of us with enough gear for the week’s
trip hadn’t given the days ahead much thought. We knew we were bound for adventures on our route west to
Kansas City but for that first morning we were simply glad to have left our exams behind, and were content
to let our driver take us to our first performance that evening in Knoxville, Tennessee.

As we began the first leg through familiar country, thoughts of previous tours came to mind. I recalled Dr. Plott’s
memories of a performance in Ft. Lauderdale given by the male chorus in the sixties. It seems that Ft. Lauderdale
harbors some extremely wealthy citizens who enjoy doing things in a big way. Dr. Plott and the singers enjoyed a
tremendous reception and after eating foods they couldn’t identify, arranged themselves in concert formation. They were about to begin when
their hosts interrupted, postponing the performance just long enough for a large dome to be retracted from overhead revealing a
clear moonlit night. The chorus then continued the concert under the stars. Would we encounter such incidents as this? It
was exciting to be underway.

Our group had an assortment of pastimes on the bus. Of course, there were the readers who carried work due
last term as well as a few carrying next term’s materials. Mary Womble played cow poker from the time we
left Davidson until we returned and Charles Dover kept us entertained with off-color jokes. Alice Packard initiated, and won, a
burping contest, but most of us passed the hours somewhere between waking and sleeping as we raced from one evening
concert to the next.

We visited the “Gateway to the West” and several of our crew rode the shuttle to the top of the
arch. Others of us visited the St. Louis Zoo where we encountered all the critters that live along the banks
of the great-grey-green-greasy Limpopo River. Yes, there were python rock snakes, a few tigers, a pride of lions, a couple
of Asiatic eagles, penguins, and even some fever trees.

Two days later, after returning from Kansas City, we spent a free day and a wild night at the “Landing,”
a section of St. Louis near The Arch on the west bank of the Mississippi River.

The next day we traveled to Memphis where we sang in a huge castle-like church. We were given a grand
dinner there at the Idlewild Parish house and later regrouped at Swensen’s Ice Cream Parlor to begin our search for
a night spot that led us to Blues Alley near Beale Street. If you appreciate the traditional blues style of
folk singing, you would have enjoyed the evening there.

One concert and several hundred miles later, we found ourselves in Nashville, Tennessee preparing for our last series of four
performances in two days. After Nashville, we would ride to Asheville, sing a final concert and then head home. At
this point in the trip, we were nearly exhausted and “getting up” for concerts was difficult. We were singing a
varied program of sacred and secular masterworks written from the 1600s to the present and the entire program lasted about
two hours. But the music and our creative momentum established earlier in the week helped to carry us through those
final engagements. We sang to a packed house in Asheville and later that same evening arrived in Davidson about midnight.

Sam Sommers ’83

Pre-medical students

Current undergraduate pre-medical students may now compete for several hundred Air Force scholarships. These scholarships are to be awarded to
students accepted into medical schools as freshmen or at the beginning of their sophomore year. The scholarship provides for tuition,
books, lab fees, and equipment, plus a $530 monthly allowance. Investigate this financial alternative to the high cost of medical
education.

Contact:
USAF Health Professions Recruiting
Suite GL-1, 1100 Navaho Drive
Raleigh, NC 27609
Phone collect 1-919/755-4134

LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS
Why not take the opportunity to study in London?

A wide range of subjects and courses is available in Central London for students of the social sciences.

Junior year abroad, Postgraduate Diplomas, One-year Master's degrees, Research opportunities.

Subjects include Accounting and Finance, Actuarial Science, Anthropology, Business Studies, Econometrics, Economics, Economic History, Geography, Government, Industrial Relations, International History,
International Relations, Law, Management Science, Operational Research, Philosophy, Politics, Population Studies, Social Administration, Social Work, Sociology, Social Psychology, and Statistical
and Mathematical Sciences.

Application blanks from:
Admissions Directorate, Houghton Street
London WC2A 2AE, England

Please state whether junior year or postgraduate.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982
