DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982

Wildcat 9 Hack It Out in the Mire

Ask Davidson baseball coach George Greer to describe the season, and he’ll reply “Wet.” His response reflects Greer’s concern for
his Wildcats, who are 5-4 thus far.

“The rain has been giving us real problems,” says Greer. “A bunch of our games have been postponed because of
the weather, and even more importantly, we haven’t been able to practice the past four days. I hope we get
a break from the weather.”

Greer sees the weather as causing the major obstacle facing his team right now. “We haven’t been hitting the ball
well, but that’s something that will come around. I think the fact that it hasn’t been there yet is because
we haven’t been able to play and practice continuously because of the bad weather.”

The present leaders at the plate for Davidson are Allen Griffin (.400, 1 HR, 13 RBI), Scott Redding (.406), Earl
Ransom (.276, 7 RBI), Phil Gordon (.250, 7 RBI), and Todd Hermetz (6 RBI).

The pitching, with the exception of a 23-0 pasting by South Carolina, a participant in last year’s College World Series,
has held up. Greer lauded the efforts of Rusty Colechia (2-1, 5.57 ERA) and Ransom (1-1, 6.00 ERA). Other Wildcat
pitchers who have seen a lot of action are Doug Wiley (1-0, 1 save, 2.37 ERA) and Ed Whitesides (1-0,
6.21 ERA).

The Wildcat’s next game is against Fairmount State, and a weekend doubleheader against Marshall at Davidson. Greer commented, “If the
pitching holds up, and the hitting starts to come around, we’ll be fine.”

by Steve Soud ‘84

Cats Drop One

Davidson’s men’s track team finished second in a dual meet with Washington and Lee University Saturday.

Despite strong individual performances and 9 first-place finishes (out of seventeen events), the Wildcats fell to W&L’s greater depth. Davidson’s
lack of depth was especially felt in the sprints and in the weight events, where they scored only 20 out
of a possible 64 points.

Davidson countered this area of weakness by displaying strength in the distances and in the jumping events. Several outstanding performances
were turned in by Davidson’s runners and jumpers. The Wildcats swept the triple jump and took the top two places
in the long jump, high jump, and pole vault.

Alec Driskill and Lance Sisco trailed wins and second place finishes in the triple jump and long jump, respectively, while
Jeff Carter produced a creditable performance in the high jump, winning it with a jump of 6’6” and giving 6’8”
a good scare before bowing out. In the distances, Randy McManus gave a strong early season showing in the 1500m
with a time of 4:02.61, a race costing him a bruised heel which forced his withdrawal from the 5000m held
later. That race was won by Franklin Ivey in 16:14.7.

The trade-off of strengths and weaknesses resulted in a very close meet. Davidson garnered enough points in the sprints and
throws (firsts by Lance Sisco in the 100m and 110m high hurdles and by Ray Sinclair in the shot put)
to place them within four points of W&L with the mile relay undecided. Once again, however, the Cats’ lack of
depth displayed itself and Washington and Lee claimed an easy victory in that event to ice the meet.

Davidson’s women had an open date this week, but will see action this weekend at Appalachian State. The men will
also be at Appalachian State next Saturday, and both teams will return home the following Saturday in a meet.

By Jeff Hamilton ‘82
