Dr. Ernest Gordon

Claving a faith in his soul by the horrors of a prisoner of war camp, Dr. Ernest Gordon repeated for Davidson College audiences this week the age-old Christian message, “love your enemy as your Lord and ye shall be free.”

As this year’s Staley Distinguished Christian Scholar, Gordon made five public talks concerning “The Freedom to Be.” He also attended several Religion Department classes and met privately with individuals during his three-day stay.

The Staley Series was established by the late Thomas F. Staley ’25 to extend the opportunities for Christian faith in the Davidson community.

The calm and commitment with which Gordon presented the power of God’s love, accented by his Scottish brogue, made an impression on the 50 or so students, faculty, and staff who attended each talk.

“It fires you up,” said Jodie Kinnet ’85. “Listening to him showed me again how much more important human compassion is than anything else.”

Norman Gordon, another freshman, added, “He makes you realize that you can make good come of any situation. As he said, there are no walls.”

Speaking confidently of an inner peace unknown to most of his audience, Gordon had said about his prisoner-of-war experience, “In every way the impossible seemed possible.”

He then spoke of horror and miracle side by side in the jungle along the “railroad of death” that Japan built with captive labor through Burma and Thailand during World War II.

Gordon was a commander in the 2nd Battalion of the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders. He recalled how, despite the worst of conditions, the prisoners built a university of dialogue, formed their own theatre and art world, held a joyous Christmas dinner, drew medicine for their pain from plants, and shared their blood to stay alive. Still, it was said that a man died for every railway sleeper laid.

Gordon and his comrades learned the meaning of “love your enemy” as they nursed wounded Japanese soldiers abandoned for dead by their own troops. After the war, several former POWs testified on behalf of some of their captors at military tribunals.

“It was impossible to do healing, education, and the arts in that situation,” said Gordon, former Dean of the Princeton University Chapel, “But when we are set free by the power of God to allow loving relationships with one another, it is possible to do the impossible. We realized there was a power in our midst greater than that of imprisonment—and realized later it was the grace of God. My physical life was saved, but I was left wondering what to do with the life given me.”

Gordon became a minister in the Church of Scotland in 1950, but proclaims that “my church is wherever I am.”

He is currently president of the Christian Rescue Effort for the Emancipation of Dissidents (CREED), based in Washington, D.C.

Founded in 1980 by an act of Congress, CREED is a ministry of reconciliation, working to communicate the plight of religious prisoners. Gordon cited Mark O. Hatfield, senator from Oregon; Jack Kemp, representative from New York; and James A. Leach, representative from Iowa, as being especially helpful.

CREED also broadcasts Biblical lessons behind the Iron Curtain and educates people here at home to the plight of Christians in many countries abroad.

“You have to realize 67 million people have been eliminated in Russia and there are 2,000 prison camps today,” Gordon said. Though his radio broadcasts and bureaucratic appeals have scant effect, he has lived under similar tyranny. He understands and rejoices in letters like one he received from Father Gleb Yakunin, a priest of the Russian Orthodox Church and chairman of the Christian Committee for the Defense of Persecuted Believers:

“I believe in the coming resurrection of Russia. May she, like Lazarus, hear the miraculous call of ‘Come Forth!’ At this moment while the reality of Russia is Golgotha, multitudes of faithful stand in dire need of your fraternal aid in defense of their rights.”

Gordon said he had been speaking twelve hours a day for the last three weeks before he visited Davidson. He preached peace in the world, and claimed it could only come through Christian freedom, as opposed to the secular freedom of “doing what we damn well please.” The appeal was to strengthen people who believe now and to educate others who, he is confident, will join him.

Bill Giduz (Mr. Giduz is Asst. Director of Communications and a member of the class of 1975)

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982