“Right There

ny
beep:

gh Be

sédgs ust

af

boys and Slimshafts reported that Davidson Head Basketball Coach Bobby Hussey had a bottle of Boone’s Farm Bordeaux Wine on
his Christmas list (in reference to the Davidsonian article, "The Bordeaux of basketball: Winemaker Hussey hopes team will improve with
age"). In reality, he hopes the season of red and green will bring him some players he can dress in
red and black. That’s right... Recruits...

Each year at about this time, thousands of college scouts, usually assistant coaches, gallivant across the countryside in search of
tens of thousands of high school seniors with one common trait: they can play basketball. Oh, not that each scout
goes after every high school star in twenty states or anything. Instead, each coach seeks the players with the right
mixture of personal characteristics which will allow that player an easy transition into the new program.

At Davidson, of course, all these prerequisites are much more stringent. To begin with, a large portion of potential recruits
is narrowed out on the basis of grades alone. One would think the high academic standards a royal pain in
the recruit mailing list, but Hussey sees the advantages. The standards eliminate from scrutiny a large portion of the graduating
harvest so that the coaching staff may focus more attention on the academic cream of the crop. Secondly, good academics
correlate well with the other characteristics in which Hussey is interested. These personality traits include, among others, high motivation, hustle,
a team play orientation, and, of course, basketball talent. All these characteristics are the common denominators of this year’s recruits,
and future Cat watchers can expect more of the same.

But as cars race from high school to high school and WATS lines light up at college after college, this
year’s recruiting deadline approaches rapidly. And Hussey has a long list of players which he’s checked more than twice, but
right now he’s concentrating on five in particular from which he’d love to see letters of intent under the tree.

Rafael Hernandez

Although right now Wildcat fans may best relate to Rafael Hernandez as a good friend of our own Kenny Wilson,
should he choose Davidson from the host of schools that are recruiting him, he will become more than KW’s friend.
He’ll become a Davidson star in his own right. A lot of athletic ability is packed into Rafael’s 6’6” 195
lb. frame, and he uses it all to be a very good, very versatile player.

Hernandez, interested in business both on and off the court, combines finesse and a power game so that he is
a scoring threat from anywhere. He’s an excellent perimeter shooter, but his leaping ability gives him the added dimension of
being able to score down low.

Coach Hussey is deeply impressed with the Southview High School senior, who has received outstanding coaching from Ron Miller. “Rafael
is a very good athlete who is versatile enough to help in more than one position. He has good speed,
quickness, and jumping ability. He could play swing or high post even though he’s only 6’6”. He plays much bigger
than he is.”

Hernandez is a well-spoken athlete who Hussey feels has the same personal characteristics as his predecessor Kenny Wilson. “Rafael could
definitely help us as a freshman. He’s an intelligent player who understands the game very well.”

The coaches have their fingers crossed that Rafael Hernandez will be wearing Wildcat red and black next year.
