Film Reviews with Matt Morris

The Sharif don’t like it

(Doctor Zhivago, [1965], directed by David Lean; based on the novel by Boris Pasternak; starring Omar Sharif, Julie Christie, Alec Guinness, Geraldine Chaplin, Rod Steiger, Tom Courtenay, Rita Tushingham)

Viewer’s Guide: some violence, adult situations. Rating: ****

After the marathon showing of Gone With The Wind, I heard many filmgoers echo the almost clichéd statement, “They don’t make them like that anymore.” Well, the fact is that they do, and Doctor Zhivago, playing Wednesday at 8:00, is class evidence. Not only is it this half-century’s answer to GWTW, Zhivago in fact tops Scarlett O’Hara’s soap operatic plight.

Based on Boris Pasternak’s sweeping novel, Zhivago translates beautifully to the screen, capturing all the epic grandeur and humanism of the novel. The story concerns a young Russian poet, Zhivago, who is trapped in a conflict of ideals at the time of the Bolshevik Revolution in 1917. Omar Sharif, in the title role, has never been better. He’s about as far from Russian as you can get, but never mind, Zhivago’s character still stirs up a motherland of empathy. Alec Guinness is, as always, wonderful as he continues to display his wide range of talent. Julie Christie, also at a pinnacle in her career, is simply sublime. The real star of the show, however, is Tom Courtenay as the rebellious Pasha, a perfectly real individual who readily appeals to the angry young man in all of us.

If the film were to be judged by the actors alone it would already get a **** rating; but there’s more: David Lean’s intelligent interpretation of the novel injects all the best lines from the book onto the screen with a grace that tops his Lawrence of Arabia (a personal favorite so this is high praise) and Maurice Jarre’s musical theme is one of the most hauntingly beautiful melodies I’ve ever heard. At 197 minutes Zhivago is long but never overlong, and in my opinion, the finest of some very fine films on this term’s agenda. If you are not moved by Guinness’s final comment on the whereabouts of Laura, your heart is made of pure stone.

Bad Scene

(48 Hrs., directed by Walter Hill; screenplay by Walter Hill; starring Nick Nolte, Eddie Murphy and Annette O'Toole.)

Viewer’s Guide: The strongest language I’ve ever heard, period (and some skin.) Rating: ***

(Ed. note: The reviewer’s review was likewise a “bad scene.” The gist of his article spoofed the hackneyed, “good ole boy,” honky/soulman plot capitalized on by the movie. See it if you want.)

Silly Simon

(Murder by Death, [1976], directed by Robert Moore, screenplay by Neil Simon; starring Alec Guinness, Peter Falk, Peter Sellers, Maggie Smith, David Niven, James Coco and Nancy Walker)

Viewer’s Guide: mild profanity (PG). Rating: ***

Neil Simon’s comedies have always had a sort of self-consciousness towards humor which verge on the grotesquely cute. As if in reply to this, Simon, in 1975, wrote the savagely funny (if very silly) comedy Murder by Death. PlayingFriday in Love Auditorium, I can recommend Death only if you are in the mood for some really inane (and enjoyable) comedy. The plot centers around a typical gathering of some not-so-typical detectives at a very typical old dark house. Typical luminaries like Peter Falk, Jimmy Coco, Alec Guinness, et al star, but best of all is Peter Sellers as a Charlie Chan detective (minus his ever-hilarious, ever-racial companion Birmingham Brown, however). All these characters have been gathered together by the multi-millionaire/eccentric “Lionel Twain” (Truman Capote!) and the subject of the visit is naturally murder.

THE DAVIDSONIAN. Post Office Box 218, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

The film moves from standard comedy to just plain bizarre with a “mind-blowing” (only way to describe it—sorry) ending. The jokes interlaced along the way are alternately painful and brilliant. Neil Simon doesn’t bring the house down with Murder by Death, but he still succeeds in delivering a good package thanks to an energetic cast and a script that generally sparkles. Silly Simon stays in the background enough for me to recommend Murder by Death.

Hester and Lillian Gish! (The Scarlet Letter [1926], directed by Victor Sjöström, based on the novel by Nathaniel Hawthorne; starring Lillian Gish, Lars Hanson, Henry B. Wathall, Karl Dane)

Viewer’s Guide: don’t worry. Rating: ***

One of the most pleasant surprises this year for filmgoers has to be Dr. Engell’s Film as Narrative Art class (Ed. note—Kudos earned). While intended mainly for his film class, Dr. Engell encourages any interested students to come watch, and believe me, it is worth a look. Classic movies will be shown every Tuesday at 7:30; movies like Greed (Erich von Stroheim’s bizarre masterpiece), Dr. Strangelove (Stanley Kubrick’s even more bizarre masterpiece) and Citizen Kane (the greatest movie ever made).

Victor Sjöström’s 1926 The Scarlet Letter will hit Perkins Auditorium on the 13th and 14th. This obscure version of Nathaniel Hawthorne’s famous novel is surprisingly good, with heartwarming performances and no-nonsense, straightforward direction by Sjöström (those who saw Moviola on TV may remember Sjöström as Greta Garbo’s mentor—as played by Brian Keith). In Moviola Sjöström was shown to be an extreme perfectionist, and that’s evident in The Scarlet Letter. There’s a vague, detached atmosphere to the proceedings and it all meshes well with the original story. Don’t miss The Scarlet Letter or any of the other films: you'll find it a tasty cultural experience.

Kudos, Kudos

Both John Munson and Scot Myers are to be congratulated for the excellent offerings of movies they have arranged for us this term. John has got some “pop” films with class, and Scot has finally figured out what a “fine” film really is. There’s not a bad movie on either schedule, and I heartily encourage you, the viewer, to catch any or all of the flicks brought in. Again, good job, gents.

Subscriptions cost $12 per year within the United States and its possessions; $16 per year elsewhere in North America; $22 in Europe ($30 air-speeded). Rates for the Far East and Oceania upon request.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 10 December 1982