Ten days ago, the faculty rejected a proposal that would have involved them, if only minimally, in tenure decisions. To realize the importance of the tenure issue, consider what has happened both nationally and at Davidson over the past several years. Once a professor has been awarded tenure, he’s likely to stay around a good thirty years or so. The young Ph.D.’s aspiring to his position had best look for a different one. Once a college has tenured the vast majority of its faculty, young Ph.D.’s had best send their resumés to a different institution. And once a high percentage of colleges in the nation have become over-tenured, young Ph.D.’s had best think about law school.

This is the situation young faculty find themselves in today. During the economic boom of the 1960s, colleges hired professors and granted them tenure right and left. But after more than a decade of stagflation and declining enrollments, many colleges find themselves “tenured in.” Young professors face not only a tight job market, but those who do get jobs are likely to find tenure elusive. Compassionate people wish a better lot for the diligent scholars who’ve plodded through 20-odd years of assistant professorships to find themselves in the unemployment lines. But even the most compassionate administrators have no choice but to be tough. For if their colleges become tenured in, they will not have any positions left to offer bright young Ph.D.’s. They will have to pass up bringing new blood into their faculties for decades—until the old generation reaches retirement age.

Now approximately 70 percent of Davidson’s faculty have tenure. Accordingly, Davidson’s administration has been tough in granting tenure and renewing the contracts of non-tenured professors during recent years. But Davidson’s administration has not been compassionate in doing so. When three of the seven professors eligible during spring term 1979 were denied tenure, shockwaves traveled across campus. Part of the uproar was attributable to the collective discovery that Davidson professors could actually be denied tenure. Hardly anyone before had been turned down. But the uproar was also attributable to the less than professional way in which the administration conveyed the bad news.

Two of the unlucky professors had been given no hint of their pending dismissals; both, in fact, were confident of positive decisions. Both had been granted pay raises—an encouraging sign every time their contracts had been renewed during the six years prior to the decisions. Both left Davidson embittered. Last year, a sociology professor was up for renewal and informed that he was one of three finalists for his own position. When the other two candidates disqualified themselves, he was not, as one would expect, renewed. Instead, the search for a new professor was reopened, and the sociology professor left Davidson disappointed that a Christian college could treat one of its professors so tactlessly.

This fall term, a French professor entered the final year of his four-year contract. The administration did not advise him to consider looking for a new job. When he discovered winter term that his contract was not renewed, he was shocked and hurt and had only a few months to find a new job in a tight market.

Toughness and compassion are not mutually exclusive virtues. Davidson’s administration is professionally obligated to recruit the best faculty possible, and in troubled times this may entail releasing a large number of professors to make room for (one hopes) more talented replacements. But Davidson’s administration is morally obligated to treat all of its employees—even those it must fire—with compassion. At a school that claims to pride itself on its intimacy and high moral standards, there is no excuse for callousness.

So given the plight of young professors—both nationally and at Davidson—it is troubling that the faculty appears unwilling to participate.in tenure decisions. Faculty involvement would not result in a higher percentage of professors being awarded tenure; that is not the point. Rather, faculty involvement might soften the blow of negative decisions by giving young professors adequate warning and courteous delivery of bad news. The administration does not seem inclined to do so left to its own devices. When young professors apparently lack the moral support of the majority of their peers, one wonders to whom they can turn.

John Siman '82
(John is a senior philosophy major from Charlotte, NC and a former editor of the Davidsonian.)

El Salvador

As we read Mr. Benedict’s article “El Salvador: Not Just Another Vietnam” which appeared in last week’s Davidsonian, we were appalled by the many misconceptions that Mr. Benedict is laboring under. He has obviously accepted at face value the accounts of the El Salvadoran conflict given by President Reagan and Secretary of State Haig that have been presented to the public over the past several months. For instance, he uses the phrase “allegedly repressive regime” in describing the Duarte government. Monday night in the 900 room we viewed a movie filmed and produced by five Dutch journalists stationed in El Salvador. The movie depicted the soldiers of Duarte’s “alleged repressive regime” murdering innocent civilians whose only crime was voicing their desire for social freedom. Yes, Mr. Benedict, we are two Americans who do question the prudence of increasing our involvement and support for this repressive regime. Last week’s article demeans those who support the guerillas as peculiar and/or ignorant. We may seem peculiar to some, but we are definitely not ignorant. Besides, is being opposed to the wholesale slaughter of innocent peasants by the military a “ghastly way to spread the Word of Christ?” We think not.

In Mr. Benedict’s article, he asserts that President Duarte heads “a moderate government dedicated to a massive program of land reform.” For one, Duarte does not hold true power. The army does. He is merely a figurehead for the generals who control the government. Secondly, the “massive land reform” that Mr. Benedict speaks of consists of maintaining the grip that the fourteen landowning families hold over the land and shooting those who attempt to change this unfair situation. Mr. Benedict contends that should the “guerilla forces” become successful in their struggle, then “the result would be the formation of a typical dictatorship.” Mr. Benedict, what exactly is a “typical Marxist type dictatorship?” Is it any different from a right-wing dictatorship which abuses human rights, as is the case in Chile (which, Mr. Benedict, if you will recall your history lesson, the US placed in power, deposing a democratic left-wing government)? Our involvement certainly did not improve the human rights situation in that country, and we see no reason to think that any improvement will result from any US involvement in El Salvador; we challenge you to prove otherwise.

Mr. Benedict alleges that the leftist “terrorists” in El Salvador “are receiving arms and support from Cuba and Nicaragua” and “economic support from a variety of Marxist countries.” Mr. Benedict then goes on to claim that should the leftists overcome Duarte’s regime, then El Salvador would be ruled by “a repressive regime that is actively hostile to her neighbors and the United States and would be decidedly undependable.” At this very moment, the United States is doing the same thing the Cubans and Nicaraguans are doing; i.e., we are permitting individuals opposed to the regimes in Cuba and Nicaragua to train openly in Florida (see last week’s Newsweek). One must not apply a double standard in comparing the conduct of the United States and Marxist countries. Today’s international situation is not a John Wayne movie; we must not toe a “my-

Continued on: 2A.