Christenson Runs for Congress
By ROB VAUGHN ’86

Eric Christenson’s shoulder-length blond hair frames wire-rimmed glasses and a full beard. Faded blue jeans and a tee-shirt clothe his body. Despite his unconventional appearance, Christenson is running for Congress.

Christenson, an employee of the Grey Student Union, is not overly concerned about his appearance in the election; he does not anticipate a victory. Eric Christenson is a Libertarian, a member of a party which believes in “a truly free market economy, draft abolition, nuclear arms reduction, an immediate 40 percent tax cut, and a 70 percent military spending decrease,” he says.

“I don’t really think I'll win, though I'd be pleased if I did. We just want to get a name for federal office as well as local office that lends legitimacy to the Libertarian Party. I’m not really running to get elected as much as to let people know about the Libertarian Party. We have a candidate in every district in North Carolina,” says Christenson.

The election of the congressional representative for the sixth district, including Alamance, Guilford, and Davidson Counties, takes place November 4.

Reynolds Lecturer Here

Stettinius professor of modern American history at the University of Virginia Dr. Norman A. Graebner presented four lectures as part of the Reynolds Distinguished Lecture Series at Davidson College 18-19 October.

Graebner spoke at 1 p.m. 18 October on the subject, “Obligation versus Interest in American Foreign Policy” and at 7:30 p.m. that evening on “Divided America in Quest of Security.” On 19 October he spoke at 2 p.m. on “Henry Kissinger and the Transformation of American Globalism,” and at 7:30 p.m. on “Western Disunity: Its Challenge to America.”

Graebner is a leading scholar in American diplomatic history and a popular teacher and lecturer. In 1978-79 he served as Harold Vyvyan Harmsworth Professor of American History at Oxford University, and in 1981-82 he taught at the United States Military Academy at West Point.

Graebner is the author of the well-known two-volume textbook, History of the United States. Among his other books are History of the American People, Empire on the Pacific, The New Isolationism, Cold War Diplomacy, Ideas and Diplomacy, and The Age of Global Power.

The Reynolds Distinguished Lecture Series is Davidson College’s most prestigious lecture series. Begun at Davidson in 1960, the series is funded by the Reynolds Foundation. Previous lecturers have included Arnold Toynbee, Dean Rusk, Margaret Mead, Buckminster Fuller, Kenneth Clark, and John Galbraith.

Davidson Initiates Gifts-in-Kind Program

Davidson College has undertaken research into the potential for donations of material and equipment from corporations. The project is supported in part by a grant to Davidson from the Duke Endowment.

“Gifts-in-kind,” as these donations are called, are nothing new. Each year, alumni give colleges items ranging from art to automobiles because they are tax-deductible. Sometimes, the items which cannot be put to use are sold.

The uniqueness of the present project is its focus on corporations rather than individuals, the potential for cooperative effort by several Southern colleges, and the planned methods for disposing of donated items.

“We're looking for anything of value—land, buildings, equipment, or vehicles,” said Jim Herring, consultant for the program at Davidson College.

Other schools from every state east of the Mississippi River and south of Virginia are involved in the preliminary research. They include William and Mary, Warren Wilson, Meredith, Coker, The Citadel, Furman, Queens, Johnson C. Smith, Southeastern Baptist Seminary, Guilford, Wofford, Sewanee, Agnes Scott, Mary Baldwin, Belmont Abbey, Oglethorpe, Birmingham Southern, Eckerd, Hampden-Sydney, Washington and Lee, Berry, Springhill, Millsaps, Lenoir-Rhyne, and Berea.

Once a college receives a gift, Herring envisions three methods of handling it.dling it. Something like laboratory equipment or a car will be used directly. Other items would be bartered with another college if the second college had a use for it and the receiver did not. Third, the equipment, land, or material might be sold for cash. The program will probably use outside professionals on a part-time basis. “How is a college development officer going to know the value of chemical process equipment or how much a material handling system is worth, or where to sell it?” Herring asked. “Once the program gets going, temporary consultants can be employed to answer those questions and find markets for the material.”

The program comes at a time when many firms are retooling and consolidating operations. Surplus assets which may result can be donated to colleges, helping promote corporate service to communities while at the same time bringing tax benefits to the donors.

Housing Shortage Moderates
By ELODIE MCMILLAN ’86

Many Davidson students have expressed concern about a housing shortage. According to Housing Director Bill Bolding, at least five sets of roommates were on “the waiting list and could not get a room” at the beginning of the year, and several were living in the lobbies of Watts and Little. By now, however, about half of these students have attained rooms.

Mr. Bolding says that the Housing Office and Admissions “work well together” and can usually precisely estimate the number of incoming students. He says that “part [of the housing shortage] stems from the senior class,” which has approximately 400 students, as compared to an average of 350 students in the other three classes. The freshman class was also underestimated, which resulted in a few triples in Belk.

Bolding claims that “the attrition rate is going down; more [students] want on-campus housing than before,” partially because of the poor economy and also because more of the peripheral housing is taken up by the faculty than usual. The College needs to house faculty, he says, because “Davidson is its own market.” The Davidson community does not have much available real estate, and it is very expensive. For students, however, off-campus housing is comparable in price to on-campus, according to Bolding.

Bolding thinks that if Davidson has a smaller student body next year, the housing shortage will be lessened, but that we will not know for sure until December or January what next year’s outlook will be.

Alumni Elect Vice-president

Robert M. Shoffner ’59 has been elected to a one-year term as vice-president of the 12,000-member Davidson College Alumni Association. He was installed in his Alumni Association office at ceremonies during Davidson’s Homecoming weekend.

After graduating from Davidson in 1959, Shoffner went on to study banking at the University of North Carolina and the University of Virginia. Shoffner is on the board of directors of the Savannah Area Chamber of Commerce and United Way of Savannah. He was also active in civic affairs in Raleigh and Wilmington, N.C., before moving to Savannah.

Vesper Concert Features Southern Quartet

The Southern Quartet performed six of Davidson Music Department Chairman William Hayden Welsh’s saxophone works in a vesper concert at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church on 17 October at 9 p.m. WDAV (88.9 FM) broadcasted the concert live. Welsh accompanied the quartet on the organ during the piece. Assistant professor of music James Swisher narrated with seven interspersed excerpts from the Biblical story of the golden calf, taken from Exodus 32.

Other works the Quartet performed included Johann Pachelbel’s “Fuga VII from the Magnificat,” Bach’s “Sonata in A Minor,” Hindemith’s “Concertpiece for two Alto Saxophones,” and

THE DAVIDSONIAN/29 October 1982