Housing For 1982-83 Tighter Than Usual

The housing situation for the 1982/83 school year will be tighter than usual, due to the absence of fall programs
away from the college such as Beaufort and India. According to Bill Bolding, Director of Student Housing, there are a
few shifts in on-campus and perimeter units, and a change in the lottery system which will hopefully make the dwelling
transition smoother. The availability of housing for women students also should improve with this year’s changes.

The major changes on campus include making Peter Knox Dorm co-ed, opening First Belk East to upperclassmen, and renovating Cannon
and Watts dorms. The decision to make Basement Richardson into an upperclass dorm has been reversed. It will remain open
to both freshwomen and upperclass women. The renovations in Cannon and Watts will also necessitate the removal of all lofts
so that repairs can be made more easily. The entering freshman class will apparently be somewhat smaller than this year’s
(approximately 330 students as compared to around 350).

The changes in perimeter housing involve the elimination of Lafferty House and Park Place. Park Place will become a faculty/staff
residence, but the future of Lafferty is uncertain. There will, however, be 7 available perimeter houses which will house a
total of 81 students. They are as follows: Grey House, 14; Henderson House, 12; Derby House, 8; Harding House, 11;
Martin Manor, 14; Kimmel House, 10; and Julia Johnson House, 12.

As always, there is an abundance of private off-campus houses available for those rising upperclassmen unable to secure a room
on campus and those who like living in houses. Approximately 150 spaces are available at the Oak Hill apartments, with
prices comparable to normal on-campus room fees. The housing office is glad to provide listings for these units, and help
in whatever way possible. Bill Bolding also encourages everyone to review the Wildcat Dens flyer which was distributed earlier this
term. Copies are available at the Housing Office.

The housing selection procedure begins April 8, with the due date for perimeter housing rosters. April 8 and 9 will
be lottery number selection dates. Those students planning to be out of town during these days should arrange for a
friend to draw a number for them by writing a signed note to that effect. All students desiring a room
to live in, either on campus or in perimeter houses, must draw a number. Those planning off-campus arrangements should also
draw. Perimeter houses will be assigned April 10. Room retention requests and single room requests are due April 13.

The major change in this year’s procedure will be that roommates simply sign up for the room(s) they prefer on
April 16. They may list as many rooms as they desire, being as general or specific as they wish. On
April 21 room assignments will be finalized and posted. It is hoped this convenient change in procedure need not eliminate
the beer-drinking, Frisbee-throwing, and chaos-filled marathon which traditionally accompanies room selection.

Another innovation in this year’s procedure is a unique clustering arrangement, in which groups of 6, 8, or 10 friends
may request adjacent rooms. Selection will be determined by the average lottery number of all the cluster participants. This change
is principally the work...of the dorm senators and Burt Taylor.

Andy Wilson ’84

College Bowl Headed For Nationals

The College Bowl team last weekend qualified for the Final Eight national tournament to be held early this month. The
regional elimination tournament (one of four in the country) was held on Saturday and Sunday in Hodson Hall and fine
play was to be seen regardless of which match one was viewing. Six teams, UNC-Chapel Hill, Purdue, Florida, Florida St.,
Marshall, and Davidson, met to decide which two would advance to the final round of play. These teams were chosen
on the basis of play in regional tournaments or radio tournaments held earlier this year. Davidson had taken the latter
route to qualify for nationals, but had not fared well in the regionals late in February.

Davidson’s first game was against Florida State who had beaten Purdue in a first-round game. Though visibly nervous, Davidson’s first
half in this game was perhaps their best of the entire weekend and they led Florida State at halftime by
over 100 points. During the second half, however, Florida State nibbled away at Davidson’s lead. With a shouted answer at
the buzzer, Fla. State appeared to snatch victory away from the ’Cats. Their answer was at first accepted and then
disallowed, leaving Davidson with an ill-flavored win which put them in the finals against a confident and relaxed Chapel Hill
team.

The nervousness of team members Gordon Turnbull, captain Brad Mullis, Marvin Overby, and John Eglin was even more evident Sunday
morning when they played Chapel Hill who in contrast were boisterous and arrogant. The contrasting attitudes were reflected in the
game as well, and Chapel Hill beat Davidson handily, sending the Wildcats to the losers’ bracket despite the loud encouragement
of the partisan crowd.

Knowing that the winner of the losers’ bracket would advance to the national finals, as the second qualifying team, Davidson
reappeared Sunday afternoon keyed-up and alert. They played a Purdue team now riding the crest of momentum after losing that
first round game to Fla. State (whom they beat to advance to the Finals of the losers’ bracket). Davidson defeated
Purdue despite the excellent play of that team’s captain (later named to the tournament all-star team). The game was fairly
close but the outcome was never in much doubt as Davidson was hitting on all four cylinders. The always excellent
play of John Eglin and the especially strong game of Marvin Overby (what's a fuzzy WARY anyway?) were notable.

Davidson tightened up as they met Chapel Hill once again to establish “bragging rights” since both teams had already qualified
for further play. The game was quite close at halftime but Chapel Hill, who is fast becoming Davidson’s nemesis, poured
it on in the second half to win easily as they beat the Cats to the buzzer (Gordon Turnbull in
particular hitting his button time and again just a split-second slow) throughout the half.

John Eglin was named to the all-tournament team along with the captains of Fla. State, Purdue, and Chapel Hill. Davidson
will play in the Final Eight tournament the first weekend in April at a site yet to be announced but
rumored to be Las Vegas.

Jeff Hamilton '82
