DRE Da “Unbelievable” Number One

That’s the Way One Fan Put It After Two Conference Wins Gave Davidson First Place

It’s just about 3:00 on a Thursday afternoon, and Johnston Gym is full of the noise of basketball. Basketballs which never seem to stop bouncing, vibrating iron, an occasional “swish.” The would-be All-Americans to lead some team to the Final Four who usually dominate the court are gone. In their stead are fifteen hard-working college students who won't be All-Americans and will see the Final Four, with the rest of us, on TV.

Jamie Hall shoots. All net. Kenny Wilson puts a ball up — it hangs on the rim indecisively but falls. Someone else shoots a cryer that won’t go. No, these guys aren't All-Americans, but they're making headlines in their own right.

First-year Coach Bobby Hussey walks to center court and blows a shrill whistle. The reaction is immediate. The players turn and run to congregate as one around the coach. Practice begins.

Now there are several key words there. First year: this is Coach Hussey’s rookie season at Davidson. Run: the team doesn’t saunter upon their own time as in days past, they run. As one: this isn’t a bunch of one-on-one showmen cast in the mold of last year’s squad. This is a team. And this is the new look of Davidson basketball.

From the visible new logo to the not-so-visible new attitude of its players, Davidson’s is a program reborn. It includes players diving across the floor for a loose ball. It includes a team that feels it an awful lot more when it loses than it did last year. And it includes a team that enjoys winning, as an upset Appalachian State team found out the hard way.

The Wildcats took the Mausoleum floor only to be greeted by a partisan Mountaineer crowd, but they remained unshaken. The opening jump came Wildcat way, and they opened up an early 6-2 lead on six Jamie Hall points and a John Carroll assist. The Apps cashed in on a couple of Davidson turnovers to spark a 10-2 spurt which gave them a 12-8 lead after six minutes. Davidson would have little of that, as they scored nine unanswered points for a 17-12 lead at the midway point of the half.

Davidson gradually doubled that lead by halftime with help from both sides. The happy Appies couldn’t keep their hands to themselves as they piled foul onto foul to give Davidson the one-and-one bonus surprisingly early, and Davidson capitalized. Three ASU turnovers just before the half aided the cause. The Cats were crashing the boards fairly well (especially Kenny Wilson), and were shooting fairly well. All that amounted to a 31-21 halftime lead.

The Wildcats came out of the 2nd half starting blocks to play a shaky game, as several giveaways on walks and fouls enabled Appalachian to cut the lead in half. Hall came up with an intimidating block that left the visitors blowing several opportunities.

The Wildcats regained their first-half intensity after ten minutes of second-half action, and it all came together. Then it all came together for junior guard John Carroll. He made three All-American caliber passes in a row that reinstated the Davidson momentum. After a Jamie Hall tap, Kenny Wilson pulled out a three-point play off the fast break, and Davidson was again up by nine, 58-49, with 4:29 left. The Mountaineers refused to roll over and play dead, as Davidson couldn’t hold onto the ball. StarASU guard John Fitch gave the veterans a déjà vu performance of last year’s game in Boone (where he hit the winning basket at the buzzer) that included a three-point field goal to cut the lead to 63-60. With 0:36 left, Rich Wilson hit point number 64 for Davidson on a free throw, and 15 seconds later the Apps got an easy bucket to cut the lead to 64-62. They called time-out, but Davidson was able to dribble it out for the win.

Hussey was elated. According to him, the game was “the best we’ve been for a forty-minute period of time.” They had peaked for that moment, but they were hardly there. “We still aren’t there. We are a long way from being where we want to be.” Points to improve upon:
1) team play
2) team attitude
3) they [the team] can play hard, will play hard.

“Now our major goal is execution,” he continued. Of particular note was John Carroll’s play. The junior point guard’s 7-assist performance prompted Hussey to say, “John Carroll played his best game since I’ve been here at Davidson.”

The win left the Cats 3-4 overall, but 2-0 and on top of the Southern Conference. And that was quite unbelievable. But that first conference win came in the First Union Holiday Classic. Davidson faced the Citadel in the first round, and they handed the pesky Bulldogs a 63-55 loss in the opener. Kenny Wilson had a game-high 14 points, but as usual, it was a team effort. “We played a good game. We played exceptionally well defensively,” Hussey commented. The Cats broke down a little in the waning minutes, but Hussey was pleased with the overall performance of his team.

The Davidson win, coupled with a UNCC win over Holy Cross, set up a final round showdown between the cross-county rivals with the stakes none other than the Mausoleum itself. Whichever team won got its decal at center court and two four-foot square braggin’ boxes.

To put it simply, Davidson got behind early and was never quite the same. Tacky was the watchword of the evening for the Forty-niners, from their coach’s dress right on down to the game plan. Niner Coach Mike Pratt wore a tacky suit of pinstripe with polka dots in between and a polka dot tie, and he brought that on the court with a spread offense at the 11:27 point and a 17-10 lead. The Niners went on to take a 38-25 lead into the locker room at the half.

Davidson came out destined to lose, but the team’s chemistry changed. Cliff Tribus was moved to a wing, and he promptly hit a pair of buckets. That didn’t halt the UNCC team’s momentum any, as they ran off to a seventeen-point lead. The Wildcats engineered a quiet comeback to slice the lead to 53-43, mainly on Tribus’ shooting clinic. The Niners continued to be tacky as they went into a full press with a twelve-point lead and 8:55 left. Three minutes later, the lead was down to seven despite the UNCC defensive effort, but the Wildcats got no closer for a 78-71 loss.

But Tribus found himself. He scored 24 points and hauled in 13 rebounds, and that is important to Wildcat hopes. So, after two SC games, Davidson was definitely an unbelievable number one, with a big upset of Appalachian State. But the meat of the schedule lay yet ahead.

Photo courtesy Neil Cooksey