Film Reviews

Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid will be shown at 1 a.m., April 17 in the 900 Room. It is a rollicking good-time film that hearkens back to the “olden days” when the West was young and spry. The film tells the story of Butch Cassidy (Paul Newman), the freedom-seeking adventurer, and the Kid (Robert Redford), who is an unemployed “gunslinger.” The pair have dreams of winning the West in 1898, after it has already been won. Feeling the encroachment of trains, banks, law, and order, they head out for Bolivia and further adventure. They never quite make it that far, however, as the 20th century catches up with them before they can escape.

Redford and Newman are not at a loss for being able to act; however, in Butch Cassidy, director George Roy Hill doesn’t seem to know what to do with what he’s got. The whole film is hampered by a lack of thorough characterization; we never get past the characters’ comic fronts, we never understand what drives them. The relationships that develop between the characters are as weak as their own individual personalities. While the scenes of love, friendship, and camaraderie have a happy jovial air about them, they are also amazingly trite. This seems especially to be the case when Burt Bacharach’s “Raindrops Keep Falling on My Head” is piped in from the background. A balance between sincerity and comedy seems to never be reached. Teeter-tottering can become a bit disheartening.

Go to see Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid ready to dredge up that spark of idealism nested deep within, ready to pull it out and laugh. But expect no more out of this happy-go-lucky film.

If you haven’t as yet had your fill of Mr. Redford on the screen, Fine Films gives you another chance on Wednesday, April 21 at 9:15 p.m. with The Way We Were. The love story tells of Katie Morosky (Barbra Streisand), an impassioned Jewish communist, and Hubbell Gardiner, a dull WASPy all-American guy who writes for a living. They initially meet in college in the 30s and run into one another when he is on leave from military duty in 1944. They end up married and living in Hollywood just when McCarthy’s wrath comes to the fore in his infamous red witch hunts.

This storyline provides the initial framework for the movie, but it all seems quite unimportant, or at least it is treated by the movie makers as such. The movie begins in 1944, flashes back to the 30s, and then forward again in the 50s. We are never sure how they got to Hollywood in the end, or even why they are there. At other times the movie drags with long, piercing romantic gazes and pauses which don’t add to the romance as much as detract from the reality of what one is viewing. The historical setting is only a backdrop for the real action: the relationship of Hubbell and Katie.

Barbra Streisand takes over the picture as Katie, the strong-willed, committed, balanced individual, contrasted with the complacent, flaky, wishy-washy Hubbell. Hubbell seems to exist only for Katie and her prodding which stems from her belief in him. All of this pushes Redford into the background as the passive Hubbell, and allows Streisand to shine. Redford finally fades away altogether after his brief liaison with another woman, leaving Streisand standing alone at the end.seems to be her story and should be renamed The Way I Was. For those of you smitten by spring fever, with the need for a touch of romance and a hint of drama, don’t miss The Way We Were.

- Continued from page 5

Obviously, external powers have vested interests in the way the crisis plays itself out; after all, U.S. foreign investment and CIA maneuverings, as well as Cuban guns and French arms sellers, surely play an important role. What is key is that the roots and eventual solution of the crisis lie with the Salvadorans. It increasingly appears that a large part of the crisis is the political vacuum of power—neither Duarte and the political moderates, nor the guerrillas, nor the military, nor the conservative oligarchy seem to be able to build a minimum consensus either among themselves or among the peasant population.

Of all ballots cast in the elections, Duarte received 36 percent, but the five rightist military and business-backed parties carried 52 percent split between them. Between 11 and 12 percent of the ballots were cast blank or mutilated, as the guerrillas had requested. Duarte said that if leftists had participated in the elections, he expects they would have received 15 to 20 percent of the vote, placing third behind the Christian Democrats and D’Aubuisson’s ARENA party (New York Times, April 2, 1982: A8).

While the guerrillas can probably resist indefinitely in the remote mountainous regions, and the military can continue holding them off in other areas with continued weapons supplies, neither side seems capable so far of either forcing consensus through violence or building a consensus politically. The situation is amorphous with no clear dynasty to smash (the so-called 14 families that control most of the wealth and power are actually more like 244 families, according to Gabriel Zaid, below), and no leader able to unite the various factions or the peasantry has emerged.

Zaid, a distinguished Mexican social critic, characterizes the internal politics of El Salvador as a shifting constellation of foes turned friends turned foes again, with leaders shifting not only places but also perspectives. Nicaragua had Somoza, and Cuba had Castro, but El Salvador has neither something to unite against nor someone to unite behind. The wealthy oligarchy is too divided within each camp, other than the current president, Jose Napoleon Duarte.

And who was Duarte’s partner, the vice-presidential candidate? None other than his current enemy, Guillermo Manuel Ungo, now president of the Democratic Revolutionary Front (FDR). What post did Ungo hold one year before presiding over this front against the junta? A member of the junta. Ungo replaced Enrique Alvarez Cordoba, assassinated on November 27, 1980, while head of the FDR. What post did Alvarez hold until January of that same year? Minister of agriculture in the junta. What background did Alvarez bring to these reforms? He was no less than a plantation owner, one of the Alvarez clan (of the ‘14 families’). In 1972, he was minister of agriculture under Colonel Arturo Armando Molina, none other than the official candidate who stole the elections from Duarte and Ungo. In other words, Ungo collects the mail of his enemy of 1972, Alvarez is assassinated by his allies of a few months earlier, and the Democratic Revolutionary Front was

Continued on page 19