Herb Jackson: If you turn to page 25 of this year’s Davidson College Directory you’ll find that Herb Jackson is
an Associate Professor of Art. What you won't find mentioned is that Professor Jackson is qualified to teach art because
he is a professional artist—an abstract painter to be specific. Six of his recent paintings, part of a series entitled
“Veronica’s Veil,” are the subject of a one-person exhibition which opened on November 18 at Phyllis Weil Gallery at 1065
Park Avenue in New York City. Herb, as he likes to be called, also has three pieces currently showing in
two other New York exhibitions: one painting in the 33rd Annual Hassam and Speicher Fund Purchase Exhibition at the American
Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters, and two large prints in the 22nd Brooklyn Museum Print Biennial. Before Christmas,
I visited Herb at his studio to talk with him about his art and how it related to art being
done in America today.

On entering the workroom of his studio, I saw seven large paintings varying in dimension from 5’ x 4’ to
5’ x 9’. I can best describe them as being deeply layered acrylic paintings rich in their variety of colors
and textures. The works are non-representational structures of inter-related forms, lines, and gestures painted from a distinctive palette which shows
a love for the vibrant colors of earth, water, and sky. Textures are created in the paintings through the thick
application of paint mixed with pumice, and some areas are scraped away to reveal many levels of the work’s surfaces.
Through the unification of countless formal, textual, and chromatic elements, each painting becomes an intriguing whole that gives its audience
more each moment it is viewed.

In order to set up a context in which to place his work, I asked Herb about what was going
on in American art and how his work related to it: “What's happening right now is a return to the
figurative image and a personal narrative and they’re attacking it two different ways: One side of it is an extremely
realistic approach to painting and then one side of it is a kind of funky, fancy, rough, tough, punk thing
that’s going on which is generally summed up as ‘New Image’ painting.”

“As you can see, my work has nothing to do with either of these things, so where I find myself
is in a sort of underground position. When I was starting to paint growing up, at least in the South,
I was perceived as being in an avant-garde position, but in terms of what was going on nationwide it wasn’t
true at all. It was an establishment position to be an abstract expressionist. So I always had that funny situation
where down here I was considered radical, and maybe still am, which is funny because I’m as classical as the
Parthenon. But in the greater sense, I was considered mainstream, maybe establishment. Certainly by a lot of people coming on
a generation behind, that looks like a safe position because that’s the acknowledged position. So I never thought that I
would have the privilege of being in the underground. And all of a sudden, over the past five years or
so, I find myself almost like working in a monastery because the work I’m doing is not the work being
shown in New York or being written about today. What abstract art that is being written about is being written
about as bourgeois decoration and I think there’s a logical reason for that. A lot of painting during the sixties
became very decorative and some of it became very vacuous, it lacked meaning. Whenever I talk about meaning I’m not
talking about literal meaning.”Siege Ss s | of the rk wich oc th wie Sonat ty: ina Pee Oe eee
ee ag A Davidson

“My feeling is that Abstract, when it comes back, will come back with new kind of import and it will
have something to do with personal symbol. I have a feeling that the art of the sixties, when it lacked
meaning, when it was bad, it lacked personal symbol. So I feel like my work in relation to all that
is very much work involved in personal symbol.”

I asked Herb what kinds of art, not only painting, he felt his work closely related to. He answered that
any works which are “essentially meditative” or “of small incident or detail” related to his own so long as they
required a “continual relationship” between piece and viewers. He contrasted his art with “quick hits” that didn’t require a long
relationship to show itself.

“There’s no picture of mine that you can walk into a room and see. I can’t see them so I
don’t think you can either. It’s simply that you see parts of them and you see just like interacting with
another person. You see facets of them at any given time, but once you've seen all the facets the interrelationship
of the facets becomes a whole new permutation that can go on forever.”

“I’m not interested in telling any story that can possibly be literal. I even get nervous about a title like
‘Veronica's Veil’ because its associative value is very literal and there are problems with that. Take, for example, the Veil
where you see his nose. I think, ‘O.K. here's an image which relates...’”

Artist’s Teachings

“I think many painters are using narrative for a sub-structure for something much greater than the narrative. You see, I
feel like all my pictures are narrative only in a non-verbal way. You can’t make marks or gestures with a
personal calligraphic mark or gesture without them having a sort of narrative. I think that certain actions, forms, and non-defined
symbols are universal. I can find marks and actions like my own in early Italian painters and they go all
the way back to the caves. I’m not coming out of someplace that nobody else has ever been.”

In describing how he worked on a particular painting, Herb spoke of being involved in a non-verbal process of reacting
to the colors and forms he put on canvas. “In a sense you become part of it, of the whole
process. Most of the time while you're working there’s no separation between artist, process, and piece. And when there is,
it’s only when you have to become judgmental in terms of the work’s finality. Of course, each mark you make
is a certain judgmental response and the next mark is going to be a response to it, but it’s the
final judgment of whether a piece works that requires you to be specifically analytical about it. Otherwise, I think the
whole constant involving a picture is intuitive. I don’t know when I start a picture what it’s going to look
like.”

Herb told of painting a particular finished work. Although he had painted the form, he still was unsure where it
came from or what it meant. In work of personal symbol, this occurrence is part of the artist’s continual discovery
of what he calls his personal vocabulary. With this discovery in mind, I asked Herb if he thought of his
painting more as a search to learn more about himself or as a means to communicate something.

DAVIDSONIAN
January 1982
