Open Meeting Closed

When we came to Davidson four years ago, the college community indoctrinated us with the notion that the Davidson Experience includes open discussion of common concerns. We find that the College’s literature supports this feeling of openness. For instance, section 5(b) of the Constitution of Davidson College says: “Students and their organizations are free to examine and discuss all questions of interest and to express opinions publicly and privately. They are also free to support issues by orderly means which do not disrupt operations essential to the function of the College, which shall establish reasonable regulations, equitably applied, as to time, manner, and place of assembly.”

Also, “The Case for Davidson College,” which presents the famous 1987 Program, says, “They [the students] live together in a community of fellowship, shared with faculty members and with other residents of the area.”

One issue of concern for the Davidson community is the College’s development program. The College’s future, financial and otherwise, depends on it. Vice President for Development Jack Powers said in an interview last fall, “People really give because they have a sentimental attachment to an institution,” and during his time of office he has attempted to foster such sentiment among students by involving them in the College’s development program.

Last Tuesday, Professor Robert Maydole invited us to what he thought was an open meeting for discussing development policy. We decided to attend. Before the meeting began, Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann told us to leave. “This is an open meeting for the faculty, not an open meeting for the community,” he said. Noticing that other non-faculty members were present, we asked Dr. Zimmermann why he required us to leave while permitting others to stay. He replied that he invited them to come. We asked him by what authority he excluded students from such a meeting, and why he was so concerned to see us leave. He said that he did not want to argue the point, that he had decided to exclude students, and that the College would publish the content of the meeting when he deemed fit. We begrudgingly acquiesced to his demands. Drs. Stell and Maydole told us after the meeting that they had not discussed development policy at all.

We have these complaints:
1) Dr. Zimmermann arbitrarily decided whom he would allow to attend this meeting, which was of interest to the whole Davidson community.
2) He gave no reason for excluding us from the meeting, and we can see no reason why he should have.
3) He justified excluding us solely on the basis of his self-assumed authority.

We cannot help but wonder if he often conducts affairs in this manner. The incident reminded us of several of Dr. Zimmermann’s past actions, such as the firing of Dr. Koller, and the controversy last spring when the administration turned down the religion department’s recommendation that the College hire a female graduate of Florida State University to fill one of their vacancies. In neither case did Dr. Zimmermann give any explanation for his decision.

If Dr. Zimmermann makes a habit of behaving autocratically, we fear Davidson must suffer. After all, are we committed to the search for the truth or Dr. Zimmermann’s opinion? We find it very difficult to develop any sentimental attachment to an institution whose officers behave in such a manner.

If you want to find a “community of fellowship” and an arena for open discussion of community concerns, then avoid the administration.

Editor’s Note:
Dean Zimmermann explained that the non-faculty at the meeting were...Staff members and faculty wives sitting in for their husbands. He also added that the students who showed up were not invited. (Dr. Zimmerman, as presiding officer of the faculty meeting, has the constitutional power to decide which guests are appropriate for faculty meetings.)

TO THE FACULTY
DAVIDSON COLLEGE — Davidson, North Carolina 28036
January 19, 1982

Members of the Faculty are invited to attend an open meeting on Tuesday, January 26, at 4:00 p.m. in The Gallery. A presentation of some of the long-range plans for future construction will be given by Mr. Meetze and Dr. Powers.

T. C. Price Zimmermann

Apostolics and the New Right

This past weekend I traveled to Youngstown, Ohio (in the tradition of Bo-Ho) to see a young Apostolic woman to whom I had been writing for some time. I’m a Presbyterian PK (preacher’s kid), and whatever beliefs I hold about God and religion in general are very liberal. Apostolics, on the other hand, are notoriously conservative theologians. Consequently, the subject of religion never surfaced in our correspondence.

One night in a Harvest House coffee shop in a mall in Youngstown, the long-avoided subject came up. I wasn’t quite ready for what she said. What she said had a lot to do with Apostolicism and what the new right has the potential to become.

I met the young lady last summer when she sat at my table (I was a waiter) at Massanetta Springs, a Presbyterian conference center in Harrisonburg, Virginia. She was there at “camp,” a conference of Apostolics from all over the US and Canada. Despite the fact that there were 900 attendees, and Massanetta is really only suited for conferences of 500 or so, the “Apple Streudels,” as they were affectionately called, were the favorite conference of the summer staff. With one minor inconvenience: Couples on the staff weren’t allowed to hold hands, and young ladies and men were to dress a little more conservatively. You see, the rumor among staffers was that Apostolics couldn’t even hold hands until they were engaged. I had no factual basis for this rumor, so as I received each letter I carefully perused it to see if I might cull any clues as to the rumor’s validity. I never really did. She went to see movies, often of R rating. She listened to pop radio, and her favorite song was the blatantly sexual “After the Lovin’.” Perhaps the rumors were fallacious after all!

How wrong I was. I learned a lot in that Harvest House. To begin with, Apostolic doctrine holds that she shouldn’t be writing to a guy, much less getting into a car with him. She’s pretty well on her way to a life of sin and corruption already, and it doesn’t help that I’m a non-Apostolic. Naturally, they weren’t allowed to hold hands, kiss, or even touch until engagement. Apostolics aren’t allowed to go to movies either. Something about Satan. They use the same argument about pop music. The gates of Hell gape open for movie-goers. Young ladies aren’t to use makeup, and jewelry is a no-no. She explained the logic behind these commandments, “You’re supposed to like what God gave you to begin with.” Wearing makeup is a statement of ingratitude to God.

This young lady, it turns out, is a heretic. After our coffee shop talk, we saw “On Golden Pond,” and throughout I teased her about being a sinner. She, like most girls her age, enjoys pretty clothes and wears makeup. That’s right, she was long ago condemned to Gehenna.

Continued on page 2

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 29 January 1982