On! What a Day! One of the fine ironies of this campus resides in Irwin 103: There the pair of Allen “Beaver” Griffin, the second leading hitter in Davidson history, and Rusty Colechia, one of the premier pitchers to ever take the mound for the Wildcats, room together. Although Rusty and Beaver never faced each other under game conditions, they know each other intimately as dueling partners in the focal point of baseball — the pitcher-batter confrontation. Rusty matches wits with hundreds of hitters, Beaver with dozens of pitchers. I had a chance to talk with Beaver on the subject of this confrontation, and he shed light onto some of the intricacies of the game.

Seeing as the pitcher starts it all off, we'll consider his first move. According to Beaver, “As a pitcher you try to start the hitter off with a strike, usually low and away or in on the hands so he can’t hurt you with the long ball.” As it turns out, hitters who go after the first pitch hit about .160 for that pitch. Coach Greer helped Beaver correct that problem. “After about the first ten games I stopped swinging at the first pitch,” says Beaver. “Most pitchers are trying to pitch outside and low — trying to get you to swing at their strike. As a hitter, you want to swing at a strike, but you want to swing at your strike. The only first pitch you should swing at is for extra bases.”

The “L” in pitching
“Pitchers,” Beaver reveals, “are generally taught to pitch in an ‘L’, inside high and inside low and low and outside. A mistake is when he gets out of that L. A mistake is usually out and over the plate. As a hitter,” he continues, “you look for a mistake. I’m looking for a specific area for the ball to be in. Each time up you get at least one mistake — in college, anyway. When you get that mistake you gotta take advantage of it and hit the long ball.” Such mistakes are usually the result of some slight deviation in the pitcher’s delivery. An example is the infamous “hanging curve.” Says Beaver, “When the pitcher gets tired his elbow drops and the ball tends to stay high. Also when the pitcher gets tired his hand drags, which makes the ball stay up.” Hanging curve balls often wind up over the outfield fence.

Another mistake of sorts is the walk. When a pitcher is behind he’s gotta go with his best pitch, but even that sometimes doesn’t make it. According to Beaver, about three of every four walks in college ball wind up scoring. So a pitcher in a three-ball situation wants to come with his best stuff.

Situation specifics
There are all kinds of different situations which warrant different pitches. The positions of baserunners, the ball/strike count, the number of outs, the batter, the defense, how well the pitcher is pitching, etc. We’ll look at a few just to get some idea of what’s going on between the pitcher and batter. When the batter is ahead (1-0, 2-1, 3-1, etc.), he looks for his pitch. But a full count brings a completely different situation. “On 3-2 you’re trying to protect the plate,” Beaver says, “You look for the fastball and adjust for the curveball. If you look for the curve, you can’t adjust for the fastball.” Just what the hitter gets depends on all sorts of variables. With a man on second he might waste a junk pitch (curveball) on the chance of a strikeout. The walk...— set up a double play possibility. In a tight count, says Beaver, “Rusty will pitch you away. He wants you to hit to the opposite field. A batter can’t hurt you by hitting the long ball to the opposite field.” If Rusty is ahead of the batter and pitching well, he’ll go to the slider, his best pitch. To a power hitter, he’s likely to mix in a few changeups. “A big hitter’s gonna be a little more aggressive. He’ll either top the ball or hit under it,” Beaver figures.

How does Beaver, as a hitter, want to react to a changeup? “You want to keep your hands back and hit to the opposite field. You gotta keep your hands back, though.” A curve? “I’m looking to hit a curve ball to right field [opposite]. The only curve ball you want to pull is a hanging curve ball. A curve ball is breaking away from you, so you might as well hit away from you. Usually, you don’t hit it well because you become overaggressive and you jerk it.”

“Junk” pitchers are therefore the hardest pitchers to hit because they keep the batter off balance. How, then, is the batter to tell what pitch is coming? If he can see the pitcher’s hand, Beaver says he can make a pretty good guess. “If you can see the back of his hand, it’s a curve ball. If you can see half the ball, it’s a breaking pitch (slider).”

As you can see, it’s all a complicated process to pitch and hit well. But what separates the .400 hitter from .250? “The .400 hitter consistently hits the ball hard. Lots of balls that ‘have eyes’ are just because you hit ‘em hard.” And what separates a major leaguer from a college player? “A college player hits five or six out of ten pitches for line drives. A pro hits nine of ten for line drives.”

Beaver and Rusty may never see each other again, but you can watch the same fascinating duel with Joe Garagiola and the gang.

by Steve Soud

Hussey to Travel

The Amateur Basketball Association of the United States (ABAUS) recently named Bobby Hussey among a select group of coaches to travel abroad in pre-Olympic competition. The ABAUS will sponsor five teams of the nation’s top amateurs, each bound to different parts of the world. The USA National Team, coached by C. M. Newton (Vanderbilt) and Lee Rose (South Florida), will travel to Europe. Hussey will assist George Raveling (Washington State) with the Southeast Asia team. They will play games in Taiwan, Korea, and Hong Kong, and will be gone from June 14-July 19.

“I think it’s an honor being selected,” Hussey said. “It’s an opportunity to represent your country in international competition. I can see where it would have future benefits for our program here,” he continued. “It could get our present and future players involved in international competition, and I can see where it might help recruiting. Who knows, we might come back with some seven-foot Chinese. There is also the possibility of getting involved in some sort of foreign tour.”

Tryouts for the teams will be held in Colorado Springs from May 20 to the 23rd. Coaches recommend underclass players, who are then screened by regional committees before they go on to Colorado.

Steve Soud

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 7 May 1982

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

BARBER FOR MEN AND WOMEN

YOU NAME IT — STYLE IT

WE'LL