Volume LXXI, Number 2

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Friday, October 1, 1982

Spotlight On Spots

A look at Davidson’s favorite study aid

By DAVID RESNIK ’85

“I took a test last year where almost every question had appeared on the spots,” says sophomore Greg Rhodes. “I can’t complain about my grade, but afterwards I felt a little bit guilty.”

Studying past tests to aid in learning is a Davidson academic tradition almost as old as self-scheduled exams. Dean of Students Will Terry says Davidson students used spots “when I was a student,” and that was a long time ago.

But what exactly are spot tests? How do students use them? Why do students use them? Do professors condone or condemn spots? And finally, do spots actually improve learning or just grades?

Spot tests are examples of past reviews and quizzes that many students use to predict the questions and format of their current tests. Students obtain spots from friends, fraternities, eating houses, and even from professors. Students examine anywhere from a few to twenty or so spots in preparing for a test.

Junior Rene Herlong says he has studied spots since “I first came here.” “After I feel I’m prepared to take a test,” says Herlong, “I’ll work a spot to tell me whether I’m as prepared as I thought I was.”

Not all students use spots in the same way as Herlong. For some, spots are the only salvation before a test. As sophomore Chris Blake puts it: “I think that some people depend totally on spots and never really learn.” Junior Will David agrees: “Many professors are quite spotable.”

For this reason and others, most psychology professors, some economics professors, religion professor Dr. McKelway, and history professor Dr. Partin prohibit spots. As religion professor Dr. David Kaylor asserts, “[Spots] can help them [the students] make better grades, but I don’t know whether it helps their learning.”

Psychology professor Dr. Ruth Ault prohibits spots in her classes. She believes that there are “only so many ways to ask a good question,” and when she finds a good one, she sticks with it. Dr. Ault feels that students who use spots “tend to memorize the answers” and that this actually does them a “disservice.” She cites evidence showing that students learn best when they “organize the material for themselves.”

Ault also objects to spots, in part, because they “frequently lead to ‘fraternity members’ getting through school easier” than other students.

All of the fraternities have spot files, though some are outdated. Kappa Alpha member Jim Crowe says his fraternity is “still in the process of getting a spot file together.” The Sigma Alpha Epsilon spot file, according to John Cain, is still a “cardboard box.” Pi Kappa Alpha William Morrison concedes his fraternity’s spot file “is a mess” but also boasts that...

Continued on page 6.

BSC Prepares To Open New House

By MIKE TANTILLO ’85

The Black Student Coalition located between Rusk House and PAX is a new addition to Patterson Court this year. Black Student Coalitions (BSC) are located at predominantly white colleges throughout the United States, but they are independent of one another. The BSC has been at Davidson since the early seventies, just before the college went coed.

The BSC was located on Jackson Court until this year, when they requested the move to Patterson Court because they have outgrown the Jackson Court House and wanted to be more in the mainstream of campus social life. Although they have not moved into their house on Patterson Court yet, the BSC hopes to move in within weeks. The officers of the BSC are: Anne Elliott, President; Charles Hooks, Vice-president; and Judy Harrell, Secretary. There are 54 black students at Davidson, of which 40 attended the last BSC meeting; however, Anne Elliott expects fifty black students to join the coalition.

Continued on page 6.