Davidson And BASIC Knowledge Center pursues campus computer literacy

By JEFF DEMPSEY ’83

The computer system at Davidson continues to change as fast as a Gandalf blip at any one of the 31 terminals around campus. Many new projects are now being actively investigated by the Computer Services Center (CSC); others await the recommendations of the Faculty Committee on Academic Computing; and some changes were brought about this past summer. Thus the coming year promises to be one of hectic growth, protean-like, for Davidson’s great tool/toy.

Of prime concern at the moment is the training of more students to use the computer. In a survey conducted last spring by the CSC, many students responded that they did not know how to use the computer nor how to find out about it. This year the CSC is offering computer workshops which meet one hour a day for one week and which teach the basics of word processing (EDITOR and RUNOFF). Sign-up sheets are posted in terminal rooms although, due to a six-student ceiling, workshops are filled through 21 October.

To learn the rudiments of BASIC programming, students can enroll in a non-credit course, Math 001. According to Dr. Klein, who teaches the classes, the course meets twice a week for four weeks to present the fundamentals of BASIC. The rest of the term’s classes deal with optional, more advanced topics and meet only once a week. These BASIC 001 classes are specifically designed for students with no prior computer experience; 001 courses in PASCAL will be offered in the winter term (as well as more BASIC courses), and previous computer experience will be preferable for the PASCAL classes.

Though the 001 courses are non-credit, students who complete them will qualify, with some additional work specified by the math department, for a notation to be placed on their permanent record reading: “Certified in Computer Proficiency—Basic.”

Another source of computer information is the new Computer User's Guide, available in the student store. Compiled this summer by junior Hunter Monroe, this booklet contains a great deal of useful information, including tutorials for introducing new users to the system and a catalogue of the computer’s software, i.e., its languages and programs as well as other general information. The guide thus serves as a useful reference manual for both new users and experienced users.

In addition to these aids, work-study students serve as monitors in the terminal room in Chambers and at the CSC to help anyone with a problem. The hours of the monitors are Mon-Thurs 7-11 p.m. at the CSC; in Chambers Mon-Thurs 6-11 p.m.; 12-6 p.m. Saturday; 2-11 p.m. Sunday. Also, a loose affiliation of users known as PUG (Prime Users Group) has compiled a directory of programs on the computer for general use. Bill Appleton, Hunter Monroe, and Dale Withrow are currently the students supervising PUG. PUG programs include, for example, a proofreader for misspellings with a vocabulary of over 11,000 words.

In last spring’s survey, many students expressed a need for more access to terminals. According to Dr. Desieno, head of CSC, the terminal room in Chambers is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week in order to help alleviate this problem. Hours for other terminal locations remain as posted.

Another issue relating to computer usage that appeared in the CSC survey is the Honor Code. The survey indicated that a large majority of students felt that the application of the Honor Code with regard to the computer is not clear. The Honor Code does, of course, apply to all computer-related work as to any other type of work. The Dean’s Office, along with the Student Conduct Council, are currently trying to draw up specific guidelines and welcome student opinions on this question.

Davidson’s computer capabilities are growing—all it takes is to get involved... Davidson’s computer capabilities are growing.As fast as the community’s interest; all it takes to get involved is initiative. UFDs (User File Directories), which are small, personal files in the computer, can be obtained simply by seeing Mrs. Betty Bradley, Coordinator of User Services, at the CSC. Then the possibilities are...

Continued from page 1. Membership dues are $5 per year. The BSC is financed, in addition to membership dues, by funds from the college activities council. With their money, the BSC sponsors social events, both independently and in conjunction with other houses on the court; and the BSC will also sponsor “Black History Month” in February. During Black History Month, the BSC will have an educational open house with displays depicting various moments of importance in Black History, and will sponsor the “Martin Luther King Lecture Series,” an annual event which brought Senator Julian Bond to the campus last year.

Anne Elliott sees the BSC as “a backbone of strength for blacks, encouraging one another socially, mentally, and academically.” Anne says, “The BSC will expose whites to the culture and sensitivities of blacks that the majority of Davidson students would never experience or face.” She adds that the BSC is open to all students on campus at all times. “The racial atmosphere, if blacks acquire the courage to allow themselves to be vulnerable and involve themselves in various activities, will undoubtedly bring about a more secure and strong black character in a white-dominated world; which is our ultimate goal,” says Anne Elliott. “The BSC is at Davidson to encourage interrelationships among blacks and whites,” according to Judy Harrell.

Continued from page 1... the chemistry section “is unbelievable.” Chemistry Professor Dr. Roger Nutt not only permits spots, but he even posts them before each review. He defends spots because they “give students an idea about [the test] format” as well as an “idea about what’s important,” and they provide “additional experience in problem solving.” Nutt admits that he’s “spotable” and adds that he bases “at least eighty percent” of his tests on spots. In his classes, he openly states it is to the “students' advantage” to study spots.

Philosophy department chairman Dr. Earl Macormac also favors spots and says that he “even gives them out sometimes.” German department Chairman Dr. Julius Winkler says that spots “haven’t been much of a problem” since the classes in his department “change books so often.” The views expressed by these professors partially result from differences among their subjects. As Dr. Ault points out, mathematics and chemistry professors make up new tests by simply “changing the numbers.” Philosophy and religion professors alter their tests by twisting the meaning of the questions. But the material on other disciplines, such as psychology, is not affected much by subjectivity; naming brain parts leaves little room for interpretation.

Professors who prohibit spots must face the problem of enforcement. The Honor Code permits the use of spots, so professors must charge offenders with an “Act of Basic Dishonesty” as defined by Section One of the Code of Responsibility. Dr. Ault recognizes this problem: “If a professor has forbidden spots, it puts a burden on students not to generate spots,” she says. Dr. Kaylor feels that it is “asking a little too much of the Honor Code” to prohibit spots in certain cases because it is difficult to restrict “publicly available material.” Since students will always be able to acquire spots, the solution to the problem of unfair testing is to create new questions every year. Students like Chris Blake know that it is “the professor's fault if they give the same test, since spots will always be a resource.” Dr. Kaylor echoes this view: “It is my responsibility to make sure use of spots is not a determining factor,” he says, adding that “If a method of testing is put into jeopardy by the use of spots, then you should change that method of testing.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN/1 October 1982 6