Brian J. Shaw

Lt. Col. David W. Bauer

John A. McKay II

Brian J. Shaw is Davidson’s new Mellon Assistant Professor of Political Science and Humanities. He graduated from the State University of Rhode Island and also attended the University of Rhode Island and the Université de Dijon in France.

Dr. Shaw received his Ph.D. from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and while there was named the outstanding graduate instructor in the Political Science Department. Dr. Shaw also instructed at North Carolina State University in Raleigh.

Jennifer Gotto ’86

Dr. William K. Mahoney joins the faculty as the first MacArthur Assistant Professor of Religion. He is a specialist in Asian studies and this fall he is teaching Hinduism and Introduction to Religion.

During his undergraduate studies at Williams College, Dr. Mahoney traveled in India, and there became interested in Sanskrit, and the religions based in that language. When he returned, he finished his English degree, and then went to Yale to receive a Master of Divinity degree. He followed this with a Ph.D. in Sanskrit from Berkeley and a Ph.D. in History of Religion from the University of Chicago.

Outside of his classroom assignments, Dr. Mahoney is interested in the pre-Christian religions of Europe and the faiths of the American Indians. As he puts it, “The rest of the department teaches the Judeo-Christian religions, and I teach everything else.”

Bill Barrett

THE DAVIDSONIAN / September 24, 1982

Lieutenant Colonel David W. Bauer says that he is anxious to begin serving as the new director of R.O.T.C. at Davidson. Bauer recently returned from Vicenza, Italy with his wife and two children, where he served with the United States Southern European task force. He also taught Military History at West Point previous to his overseas assignment. Lieutenant Colonel Bauer feels that more students should take advantage of the R.O.T.C. program at Davidson. “I’m proud to be associated with R.O.T.C. at Davidson and hope that we can maintain the quality of our program and at the same time get more young men and women involved in it. We’ve had the top R.O.T.C. unit in the state the last two years, which I’m confident will increase the attractiveness of our program.”

Bauer has been very impressed with the students and attitudes at Davidson. “At a school like Davidson, everyone is exposed to a variety of subjects and opinions. People here are willing to listen to many different points of view. The military life may not be for everyone, but R.O.T.C. can be a very valuable experience.”

Frank Hague

Mark R. McCulloh

Mark R. McCulloh has been named assistant professor of German. He is a graduate of the University of Alabama, and holds the Ph.D. from the University of Illinois, where his dissertation topic was a study of Alexander von Humboldt.

Esther Wruck

Another Davidson resident, Esther Wruck, has been named visiting lecturer in German.

A graduate of Hope College, she holds the master’s degree from the University of Rochester and studied at the University of Erlangen, Germany, under a Fulbright Award. She has previously taught at UNCC, Winthrop College, and Davidson.

John A. McKay III will serve as visiting assistant professor of chemistry.

A graduate of St. Lawrence University, he holds the Ph.D. in organic chemistry from the University of Vermont. He has been an instructor there and at Lyndon State College, and has co-authored scholarly articles in the area of mass spectral analysis.

Lester O. Prince

Lester O. Prince joins the Davidson faculty this year as a visiting instructor in Chemistry. He is a recipient of the National Institutes of Health Traineeship at Cornell University where he is currently a candidate for the doctorate in nutritional biochemistry and toxicology.

For outstanding research, Professor Prince won an American Institute of Nutrition graduate student travel award in 1981. He is a graduate of Roberts Wesleyan College. Prior to his advanced research studies, Professor Prince was a medical laboratory technician at Gowanda Psychiatric Center in New York.

Jennifer Goto ’86

S. Shephard Jones

S. Shepard Jones, retired Burton Craig professor of political science at UNC-Chapel Hill, will spend the fall term at Davidson as Covington Distinguished Professor of Political Science. A Middle East specialist, Jones served as a special assistant to the U.S. delegation to the United Nations conference in San Francisco in 1945, and as public affairs officer for the Near Eastern, South Asian and African Affairs Bureau. He also served tours at the embassies in Pakistan and Amman.

A graduate of Georgetown College in Kentucky, Jones holds the master’s degree from the University of Kentucky. He did additional graduate work at Harvard and at the Geneva School of International Relations, and earned his doctorate at Oxford University, where he studied as a Rhodes Scholar.

Edited by Tom Pafford '84

Turn To Page 9