To The Editor:

I hope all the members of the Davidson family who did not read Van Beck's and Stokes Peebles’s letters in
last week’s Davidsonian will dig up a copy and do so now. Van and Stokes understand perfectly what you Davidsonian
people fail (and always have failed) to understand: College is not a place to challenge conventional values, but rather to
absorb them. How do you firebrands suppose a student can become a good citizen and a cheerful, loyal worker if
he’s in the habit of speaking out every time some injustice pops up? You will better serve the Davidson community
if you publish, for example, spots for upcoming eco and chemistry reviews or interview recent alumni who are doing well
in dermatology school. Just remember, if you're not a sissy, you shouldn’t have come to Davidson in the first place.

John Siman '82

Dear Oddly Dressed Editor:

We question the value of the analogy you have provided in your recent editorial concerning the plight of the Polish
people. Though your intention to remind us of the events which have transpired in Poland is encouraging and well received,
the imposition of Martial Law is the culmination of a complex historical struggle within Poland, the nature of which is
in no way comparable at any level to your recent experience in South Carolina. We feel you have dealt with
this issue in a superficial manner unbecoming of an editor; your position does not give you philosophical breathing space, but
the responsibility of choosing your words more carefully.

In a spirit of constructive criticism with the hopes that the Davidsonian will reverse its recent trend.

Andy Miles and Randy Harwell

To the Editor:

In response to the lead article on January 15, 1982 entitled “Girls, Claim Richards and Bailey,” I have one question:
Would you ever title an article “Boys, BSC Claim Richards and Bailey” unless in reference to a group of males
under 12?

Betsy Thomas '82

To The Editor:

On Wednesday, members of Alpha Phi Omega, national service fraternity, delivered to dormitory rooms envelopes for spring term registration. I
guess many students are not aware of this long-term service which APO renders, but I want them to know. On
behalf of the students and the Registrar’s Office, I want to thank APO for its continuing contribution to us all.
May its tribe increase.

Richard Burts, Jr.
Registrar

To the Editor:

Thanks to the Housing Office for responding to our plea and providing us with a new shade. (Sorry guys). Thanks
to you for publishing our letter of distress and increasing the number of Sentellites with their eyes trained on 2nd
Cannon.

Gratefully yours,
Two now-shaded and happy coeds from Cannon,
Suzanne Dickey and Holly Spannuth

To The Editor:

It’s not often that snow lasts long enough at Davidson for people to notice the difference; but when it does,
as it did this week, it is rather obvious that the college does not care to deal with it effectively.

BSC

Personally, I like snow and didn’t mind getting wet feet because none of the sidewalks were shoveled on campus this
week nor did I mind slip-sliding to classes when fluctuating temperatures melted snow to slush and froze it back again.
I like danger: it keeps my mind occupied and alert. But other folks, particularly the ones with smooth plastic soles
on their shoes, or crutches, did not thrill to the challenge of the undisturbed ice floes which for days covered
such well-traveled paths as Richardson Plaza and the bright, new sidewalks around the Commons. I know no Davidson student’s father
would sue the college because his $7,000-a-year investment slipped and cracked his skull on a sidewalk that should have been
cleared, but since such things happen in the real world, I couldn't help but wonder what a shame it would
be to have to mortgage the Commons in order to pay off a lawsuit! And such nice brick sidewalks.too (wherever
they are)! By the time this letter has been printed, the only thing that will be left of the snow
will be the old familiar mudslides we are used to ruining sneakers in, but I hope the administration will take
my observations with a grain of salt and invest in some, and some sand as well, for next time, before
another real-world tragedy hits home.

John Krotchko

To The Editor:

The frequent lack of communication and cooperation at Davidson between students and students, students and administration, and between various administrative
offices and departments has resulted in inefficiency and conflict in normal college operations and daily life. I believe that active
efforts at increasing the quality of communication between these groups can be nothing but productive and can improve the quality
of services provided by the college. Several examples of how Davidson falls short of the ideal of effective communication will
serve to illustrate my point.

Roommate conflicts come to a head during Winter Term. In a majority of cases, the first expressions of discontent are
not between roommates but to Bill Bolding or to one of the Resident Advisors. In some instances, communication between pairs
ceases completely, and nothing can resolve the conflicts except separation or a change of room. However, when roommates sit down
and discuss differences face to face, in a spirit of mutual understanding, compromises can be made and conflicts resolved. This
communication should be a first step, not one which occurs after formal action is demanded from the parties.

Similar problems exist in eating houses. Discontent with an aspect of fraternity or eating house services is not expressed openly
until it becomes chronic and affects the popularity or attractiveness of the houses themselves. Often the discontent remains unsatiated, feeds
upon itself, and is later expressed by one’s leaving the house entirely. Communication in this instance would allow the houses
to provide a more viable alternative to the Commons and might help keep memberships strong and loyal.

Last Spring, the club soccer team had a very unpleasant run-in with some of the football coaches and players. We
were playing on one of the practice fields, and the coaches objected (in a very salty manner) thinking we would
muddy it further. If the coaches had known of our intent to play there, or if we had known of
the depth of their feelings about the field, some kind of compromise could have evolved which would have avoided the
conflict that occurred. Numerous examples of this type of conflict occur both between club and varsity sports and between men’s
and women’s teams.

The residents of Davidson’s perimeter houses were and still are concerned about their living conditions. Several problems were resolved after
meeting with Bill Bolding. Little was accomplished prior to these meetings, when most of the discussion concerning perimeter houses was
held in the Davidsonian. Bill was able to inform the off-campus houses about his staff limitations and about some of
the “unfixable” characteristics of several houses. He was also able to prioritize and discover their specific needs. This helped him
to get things fixed efficiently. Bill explained to me that the most was accomplished when they communicated with him face-to-face
with a constructive, as opposed to a defensive, attitude.

In addition, the Physical Plant Office’s relationship with students has improved markedly over the past few years. Their main contact
with students has been through fixing damage which we sometimes inflict on the dorms and elsewhere. They, naturally, feel antagonized
by these occurrences and distrust students to some degree. When they meet with students who are concerned with maintaining the
dormitories or when they see constructive student efforts, such as the lounge in basement Belk, they modify their views of
students in general. Communication with them contributes to this trend.

Davidson’s administrative offices are all on one floor in Chambers. One would believe that this would facilitate communication and cooperation
among them in dealing with college functions and operations. This ideal is hampered.

DAVIDSONIAN, Friday 22 January 1982
