Dr. Lawing Blows His Horn

Those of you who were studying (i.e., gabbing in the library, hanging around the snack bar, watching TV, etc.) Tuesday
night, April 6, sure missed an excellent trumpet recital by Dr. William Lawing of the music department. Dr. Lawing (those
in the music biz call him “Doc”), along with his wife, Cynthia, at the harpsichord, began with a suite of
trumpet tunes by the English Baroque composer Jeremiah Clarke. An excellent opener, this collection of six dances demonstrates a unique
tasteful flair of writing for a particular instrument seldom heard elsewhere in music. Doc, playing the piccolo trumpet, exhibited a
good understanding of each dance in its own context, and in interacting well with the harpsichord, conveyed that sense of
“swing,” not unlike a good jazz performance, so sought after, and so rarely achieved. It certainly would have been an
added treat to hear these played on the baroque trumpet, which Doc plays now and again.

Two pictorial pieces by composers of our century followed. The first, The Sham Chin River Bridge: A Tone-Photograph by W.H.
Welsh, composed for the Lawing’s tour of Hong Kong last summer, was somewhat disappointing in that on first hearing it
failed to call up the feelings of pride and tension Dr. Lawing described in his introduction. On the other hand,
Quiet City by Aaron Copland for trumpet, English horn, and piano was extraordinary. The colors painted by Copland of a
city after dark are brilliantly conceived, and the interaction between Doc and oboist Hollis Ulaky totally captivated the audience.

The final selection of the first half, entitled Animal Ditties by Anthony Plog, based on poems by Ogden Nash, is
scored for trumpet, piano, and narrator, the latter role being handled by James G. Swisher. The texts and Mr. Swisher’s
reading were humorous enough, but the tongue-in-cheek writing for the trumpet and piano added a dimension which had the audience
laughing like hyenas.

A first was established in Davidson recital history in that the audience was moved — quite literally — at intermission
from Hodson Hall to the Davidson College Presbyterian Church; the second half of the concert was for trumpet and organ.
The move was executed very smoothly, but was a bit long due to the movement of the recording equipment.

The second half of the program opened with another piece by an English Baroque composer, Godfrey Finger — his Sonata
for trumpet, oboe, and continuo. Dr. Lawing was joined by Ms. Ulaky again, along with organist Wilmer H. Welsh. The
performance, like the Clarke piece, was delightful. The sound of the trumpet often has difficulty working well with the sound
of the oboe if the latter is not large and well-rounded enough, but no problem was encountered here. Mr. Welsh
played very tastefully as well. The cavernous acoustical characteristics of the DCPC had a detrimental effect on the “chamberness” of
the performance, however, in that the subtle changes in dynamics were often lost to the audience.

The two final pieces were for trumpet and organ. The Sonata for Trumpet and Organ by Alan Hovhaness demonstrated the
beautiful matching of tone color between the two instruments. The Suite in D Major by G.F. Handel brought the concert
to a close with another suite of dance pieces.But with the length of the first half, the trek to the
Church, and the long ephemeral quality of the Hovhaness piece, both performers and the audience had run out of steam.
Nevertheless, Dr. Doc Lawing blows a ditty in his office. Lawing gave it the best that could be expected, and
it was fun. It is certainly a shame that at a college which considers itself of a fine liberal arts
character, just about the only students who attended were either music majors, wind ensemble players, or in Music 121.

An In-Depth Look
Continued from page 9

He posits the existence of three basic inference types, the emotive/affective, the categorical, and the temporal/spatial. Emotive/affective inferences deal with
the ways in which we know, across a wide variety of social and emotional situations, much more than the information
given. “It is set apart (from the other inference types) in recognition that emotionally-laden experiences frequently are either the easiest
or the hardest to remember.” Categorical inferences, the second major class, are for Brockway a central fact of perception in
the sense that they are what allows us to see “that bundle of sticks” as “a chair” in a seemingly
immediate, direct fashion. More generally, they deal with the ways in which things are included in or excluded from a
given category. Temporal/spatial inferences deal with a number of different types of causality, such as the types of objects demanded
by a situation (i.e., “She heated some water” strongly implies the existence of a stove and a pan; “He pounded
the nail” implies a hammer, or some similar instrument). Another type of temporal/spatial inference is represented by the concept of
“enablement” or “missing enablement” (i.e., what state or states of the world would seem to account for the present situation?).
While he cautions that the taxonomy should be treated as “a flexible entity,” early attempts at experimental verification appear quite
promising. A number of different experimental protocols have been devised which distinguish between the predictions of Dr. Brockway’s theory and
those of specific storage/container-based theories, and, thus far, in every case, Dr. Brockway’s theory has been upheld.

But much more work, both theoretical and empirical, is needed before the replacement metaphor of memory as inferences is generally
accepted by psychologists. Dr. Brockway is at present supervising the production of several short films about unspoken social conventions of
Davidson, which will eventually serve as the stimulus material in experiments designed to verify the existence of emotive/affective inferences. Also,
he is working on a paper that attempts to specify in greater detail exactly what is metaphorical about the metaphor
of memory as inference. The work is slow, but the issues it deals with are clearly weighty, worthy ones. Brockway’s
theory of inference as memory is an attempt to deal with human knowledge as it exists across time; why we
know what we know; and why what we know changes. To that end, it deals with an ecological approach to
cognition, and represents a radical departure from current theorizing and experimentation.

Brian Nash ’82

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9 April 1982

Tin Bewnh, dolce vulp.
THE SAD HISTORIAN, Printed January, 1824, by William Rudmer, at the Shakespeare Printing Office, Cleveland Row.
