Support the SAE, Davidson College -

BIKETHON

on Saturday, March 20

- 10:00 AM

For more info call:

Warren Lackey - 6615

GIVE TO THE
AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY.

continued from page 1
that we will never be forced by economic circumstances to tie our admissions policies with ability to pay.”

According to Stevenson, Davidson will try to “shelter the impact” of the federal cuts. The United States government currently provides 80% of the allocations for the Work-Study program. The College will try to match its losses with an additional 20% in institutional funding. The financial aid office will also rely heavily on contributions from Alumnae and friends of the College. Davidson is also encouraging corporations to establish new scholarship programs.

Davidson College cannot replace all of the financial aid cuts, however. Those that do not have a demonstrated need, mostly upper-middle-class students, will lose money from the Guaranteed Student Loan Program.

If the Reagan administration succeeds in altering the GSL, Sophomore Bill Crone will not procure a loan next year. “As it looks now, I will not receive a student loan next year,” said Crone, “I'll still be able to attend school, but it will be a hardship on my family.”

Even students who have a demonstrated need are apprehensive about Reagan’s proposed financial aid cuts. “(The cuts) are going to make the private colleges the way they were 20 years ago, for the affluent only,” said freshman Warren Gould. “He (President Reagan) is distributing his money in the wrong places. He doesn’t have his priorities in the right order,” commented freshman Greg Rhodes.

College President Sam Spencer also feels that Reagan has his priorities in the wrong order. “Some programs become a luxury in times of stress, but student aid budgets are not a luxury,” said Dr. Spencer.

As a member of the Association of American Colleges, Dr. Spencer is involved in a struggle to stop the financial aid reductions. The AAC is united in an effort to persuade Congress to spare student aid from a swarm of budget cuts. “Congress is the point at which the battle will be won or lost,” said Dr. Spencer.

The Financial Aid Office is launching a letter-writing campaign to members of Congress. “Both student aid recipients and those not receiving aid are encouraged to become involved in this effort,” said Stevenson. She is releasing a letter this week that urges faculty, students, and staff to become involved in the fight against student financial aid cuts.

by David Resnik ‘85

continued from page 1
value, make borrowers pay market interest rates (up from the current nine percent) starting two years after leaving school, and limit GSLs to students with “un-met needs.”

More than 300,000 independent college students would probably be forced out of school, predicts John Phillips of the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities.

“Assuming only half of those who drop out of independent colleges” go on to public colleges, Phillips estimated “states would have to increase their subsidies by more than $500 million.”

Allan Ostar of the American Association of State Colleges and Universities then pointed out that many states themselves have been badly hurt by the recession, and were unable to make up the difference.

He pointed out that most states’ allocations to their public colleges haven’t increased as fast as inflation.

Still others worried about the ability of the 839,000 public college students who now get aid to hold on.

A Southern Illinois University survey found that 61 percent of its students doubt they’ll be able to continue in school full time next fall, when the first round of Reagan education cuts takes effect.

Those worries are echoed around the country:

Dr. William Pickens of the California Post-Secondary Education Commission frets about a “step-ladder effect” in which private college students will have to transfer to public colleges, where they will displace the poorest students on the public campuses. Those students, in turn, would be bumped down the ladder to two-year institutions. The less-well-endowed students in community colleges will then be displaced, he fears.

College Press Service with David Resnick

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 19 March 1982