| sth ibd abana: «ecliptic
po henna eigen
to the effect: , |

Few sportswriters have the privilege of entering the locker room after a game, but I was lucky enough to gain entrance to the locker room after the ETSU game.

Actually, I’m not sure if it’s lucky after two consecutive home losses...

Not a whole lot of people got to see that article, but they saw the headline senselessly placed over the soccer article we had run the week before. I won’t name any names, but don’t blame me for the mix-up—I wasn’t there for the layout.

Anyway, I was again in the locker room, Saturday night. Once again I learned much about Davidson basketball:

I walked into the training room and there was recruiting ace Gerry Vaillancourt with a crowd around him. The company was on the lofty side—a couple of doctors, Wildcat Club Czar Sandy Carnegie, and College President Sam Spencer. They weren’t talking educational policy or the latest med school gossip either; the subject was recruiting.

The recruiting deadline is drawing nigh, and at this point recruiters are carrying letters of intent in one hand, pens in the other, and as the pressure increases the veins in their foreheads stand out to look more and more like signatures of coveted players. It’s getting down to the nitty-gritty. He spoke of some of the other schools’ recruiting strategies. It seems a couple of the recruits are interested in Davidson because of its outstanding pre-med program. That’s easily understandable, so other schools in the race for these guys are countering. They tell the kid that there’s no way he can carry a pre-med course load and still play college ball. Have they talked to Cliff Tribus lately? Obviously not, so they try to push business on the kid.

This is a high school senior, and they're playing with his whole future! Recruiting is a dirty world. Coach V. is conscientious enough to go with the guy’s present desires, so he’s trying to get some alums in Hippocrates’ noble profession to write and present some extra facts. Vaillancourt went on to say, “It’s scary—you can be so close and yet so far.”
“And there’s no prize for second in recruiting,” one of the doctors pointed out.

I went on into the locker room itself, and there was a depressed bunch of players. Coach Hussey was making the rounds, where he would talk for a minute or two to each player individually. Jamie Hall didn’t have a whole lot to say, so I went over to Kenny Wilson.

He, too, was taking it hard, but knew they had VMI to think about. “If we play the way we did tonight, we’ll crush VMI.” He looked at the stats. “They can shoot the lights out. Especially Willie White. It doesn’t matter how close you guard him, because the closer you play him, the farther out he goes.” And Willie White doesn’t miss too often. It was his hand that got the Mocs off on the road to their comeback win early in the second half.

I went back into the training room, and on the other side of the room were Coaches Hussey and Vaillancourt. Coach Hussey just kept poring over the stat.