Dear Class of '85,

A lot has been said in the last few weeks about the relative merits of eating houses and the Commons, much of it tongue-in-cheek, and most of it from ATO. But this is a serious question and concerns more than one house. In talking to freshmen and reading what they have to say, I get the overwhelming impression that many freshmen have no idea what an eating house is about. Most upperclassmen will wax poetic about how much they appreciate their House and the house system in general. If that many people feel so strongly about it, there must be something there.

This system is threatened now because there is a rivaling, and at first glance, attractive alternative. The mess of Slater food once drove people to the Court. Now freshmen have to be coaxed out of that cavernous hall on the hill. I don’t think all the houses realize this yet. The Court is in real danger. Unfortunately, the biggest change at Davidson in the next few years will be the death of Patterson Court. This change is not one of the ones Davidson needs to make.

Please don’t get me wrong. The Commons is a nice place, probably the most attractive and best-run mass food production unit I've ever seen. But it’s hard to explain why people feel so strongly about it. You'll probably like it. I'd like to point out some of the things you'll be missing if you stay at the Commons.

Many have told me they like the flexibility of having a two-hour interval to eat in. Is it really such a hardship to meet with your friends at the same time to eat every day? You’ve probably done it at home for years. You probably do it now also. All freshman year most of my meals were at 5:00. In many ways, a house is much more flexible. Try calling Mr. Pritchard from Winston-Salem and asking him to save you a plate of food because you can't get to Davidson till 9:00. See what he says. And try calling ext. 348 and asking them to send someone to your room with food when you’re sick like I did a few weeks ago. See how long you wait. Several houses have open kitchen policies. I doubt the authorities would look too kindly on a midnight snack from the Commons’ freezers. Is it really flexibility you want? Or are you afraid of change? Or ignorant of what you're missing?

What will happen to social life if the Court dies? Parties like the ones I’ve been to this year. Even if the Commons does organize events, it won’t be the same as when a House throws one. A party organized by you and 80 of your friends is bound to be better than one done by a College committee of people you hardly know. But one of the best things about a house is that you always have a place where you belong. You can always go down there and find friends to talk, commiserate, study, or just goof off with. You can play pool, or foosball, or ping-pong or whatever.‘Pleasure of the House is. It’s incredibly nice to curl up in front of the fire with a Humes book. Or whatever you like to curl up with. A dorm room and a food barn can get pretty lonely. Obviously, everyone should not join a house. There are some who would welcome the anonymity and, yes, inconveniences of eating at the Commons. Thurston Hatcher is probably one of those people. If he is so disgusted by the idea of knowing someone who washes dishes (or God forbid, doing them himself!), he probably doesn’t belong in a House. At least not in Jeff Mann’s view of things. It isn't the closest thing to a home. Mr. Pritchard is a nice man, but I doubt he can throw Lastpesd.

Dean Zimmermann made two students leave a meeting dealing with college development. His lack of respect for Davidson students is sad considering his position, but is it understandable? Is it Dr. Zimmermann’s view that we are so selfish and ignorant of the world that none of us could possibly be interested in the future of this college? Is he wrong?

Political awareness is a knowledge of and sincere concern for the plight of human beings. RUSK recently had an advertised party which began with the showing of pornographic films to a group of women. This is an example of political unawareness. Why? For a long time, human beings have struggled in the attempt to treat each other more gently, justly, and with humane respect. By most accounts, women have suffered from exploitation more than men, and the battle to be considered as more than brainless, baby-producing workers goes on in America and abroad (It really does. Ask someone who was in India this fall or ask some women who have applied to a man for a job in this country). Pornography degrades humans. It seems that after what women have been through, they would be more sensitive to human degradation than to endorse pornography. Pornography, whether at RUSK, PAX, or ATO, emphasizes a totally physical view of people which many concerned women and men have worked to change. Taking a light view of pornography is ignoring the sacrifice of these people and it is ignoring the pain of those who suffer because they are not always considered as thinking, feeling humans. Taking a light view of pornography is being insensitive to a friend who hurts for being treated as less than a whole person.

Part of political awareness is realizing what our actions say about us. Unless our actions command respect, we will never get a foot into the office doors of people like Dean Zimmermann. But more importantly, does our level of political awareness command even our own self-respect?

Frazier Worth ’82

Pre-medical students. Current undergraduate pre-medical students may now compete for several hundred Air Force scholarships. These scholarships are to be awarded to students accepted into medical schools as freshmen or at the beginning of their sophomore year. The scholarship provides for tuition, books, lab fees, and equipment, plus a $530 monthly allowance. Investigate this financial alternative to the high cost of medical education. Contact: USAF Health Professions Recruiting.

ARMY ROTC
LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD
For More Information Contact: