Women’s Center to Be Union Committee Next Year

The Kimmel House, currently the site of the Women’s Center, will be just another perimeter house next year. A proposal to form a Women’s Concerns Committee on the Union Board to take its place was accepted at the Board meeting on April 2, according to Lisa Brawley (’82). Lisa was the informal head of the Women’s Center this year. She submitted the proposal for the new committee after discussing the matter with Associate Dean of Students Sue Ross and other interested people, she said.

“They expressed earlier in the year that they thought there might be a better way to serve the needs of the campus.” She continued, “It was decided that a Union Board Committee would be more efficient for communication reasons.” Interested students include Sherburne Laughlin, Betsy Thomas, and Elizabeth McMillan.

The Women’s Center was originally formed in response to a desire to discuss issues pertaining to women, as well as the fact that “women did not have as many chances in the housing lottery,” according to Bill Bolding, Student Housing Director. “I don’t think women will be losing very much by losing the Kimmel House at this stage,” he added. There were so few applicants that the house was not filled at the beginning of the year, Lisa said. The Center was started in 1980 and first received funding from the Activities Tax Council this year, she said. If it had not been replaced by the committee, there was a good chance that it may not have been funded by the Housing Office next year, Lisa said. The committee will obtain funds by virtue of being a part of the Union Board.

“Originally, the idea of a Women’s Center excited me because it is so unlike Davidson College — usually Davidson is a very conservative place — but now I’m somewhat frustrated,” Lisa said. There were five active members at the beginning of the year, and the Center published two newsletters entitled “Airborne,” she said. The Women’s Center “was ignored” by the campus, and after a time, members “lost their motivation,” she said. “As a building, a place where people live, the Women’s Center does not meet the needs of the campus. A Women’s Concerns Committee has more credibility,” Lisa said.

“Publicity and visibility are very important. If the committee gets interest generated, then maybe there could be a full-time thing” in the future, she said. “I think there might be enough interest later. I'd like to see it as a community center (rather than solely College sponsored). That would be more exciting. ... There is so much more to being a woman than being a student.”

“It is funny that at Davidson College, people still ask whether we need a Women’s Center, but at other campuses, it is assumed,” she said.

Peter Gulyn ‘83

ATC to Set Budgets Next Week

The Activities Tax Council (ATC), which allocates money from the student activities tax to various organizations, will meet April 22-23 to discuss how this year’s funds will be distributed, according to Business Manager Bob Currie. Twelve organizations receive their funding from the ATC. These include student publications and student organizations such as the SGA, BSC, and DCF. The heads of the organizations must submit last year’s approved budget along with their actual expenditures for the year for the Council to review.determine how this year’s funds are to be allocated. Despite complaints from Quips and Cranks and the Davidsonian that they were underbudgeted, the ATC will not increase the total amount of allocations this year, according to Mr. Currie. Danny Waddill, chairman of the ATC, said that although there would be no increase in the tax this year, there might be one next year. There will be some other changes in the distribution of funds, however. According to member Lisa Brawley, the Women’s Center will no longer be funded by the ATC and will become a Union committee instead. Brawley said that since it will be funded by the Union Board it will not ask for any money from the ATC. The Women’s Center received $750 last year. Also, the student carrier current radio, WDSR, has folded and will not receive any money. WDSR received $1,000 last year. The activities tax, which is paid by students in their tuition, amounts to $48,500 or $45 per student, according to Currie. A reserve of unused funds that has accumulated over the years is available if necessary, Currie said. As for the various organizations, most plan to request the same amount of funding or more than last year. Except for the last few years, the Quips and Cranks budget has been very small in the past, according to co-editor Jim Reese. He would like to see the increased funding continue. Reese also noted that the yearbook facilities and supplies are less than adequate. “We only have one typewriter, and it doesn’t work.”

Hobart Park editor Dave Banks is also concerned about the funding situation. He said that although Hobart Park ended up in the black this year, it needed to borrow money left over from last year. He said he turned away about 50 percent of the material he received and next year the magazine may have to turn away as much as 70 percent if it doesn’t get enough money to put out two issues. He concluded, “I don’t think that’s what we want from a college literary magazine.”

SGA president Tim Johnston was not sure if the SGA’s request would be larger than last year but he was sure that it wouldn’t be less. The Residence Hall Council, according to Burt Taylor, received no money last year and they will ask for some this year, although he is not sure how much.

Jeff Holland ’84 expanded the traditional book club into a completely new and unique ACADEMIC BOOK CLUB. Save up to 80% on selected titles. NO GIMMICKS. NO HIDDEN CHARGES. AND NO HARD SELL. Just low, low prices every day of the year; unlimited choice of books; fast, efficient, personal service on every order. ACADEMIC BOOK CLUB, P.O. Box 49, Ilaro, Ogun State, Nigeria.

Dear ABC, tell me, without any obligation on my part, how I can order for myself and for my friends anywhere in the world any book in print, from any publisher, from any country, in almost any language. Tell me how I can save 20-40% on these books.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9 April 1982