Godspell

Davidson’s First All-Student Production

A flamingo hat perched atop Abraham’s head, the prodigal Harpo Marx, color, lights, and dance in the form of the
musical Godspell helped fill the 900 room with warmth and animation. With only colorful ladders and a matching plank of
wood for the set, a group of Davidson theatre veterans put on the classic musical, and three sell-out crowds would
agree that it was well worth the students’ effort. It was not a perfect production, but the superb acting, choreography,
and music more than compensated for some vocal shortcomings.

The show was a Davidson first in that it was directed and produced outside the auspices of the drama department,
although Dr. Barber and Dr. Gardner lent much aid and the College Union donated the necessary funds. Says director Laura
Singleton: “Shaw was very enthusiastic, and he and his staff were in on it from the beginning.”

Godspell was written by John-Michael Tebelak and is based on the Gospel according to St. Matthew. The music and lyrics
are by Stephen Schwartz, and the play premiered off-Broadway in May 1971. The musical extravaganza lends itself to variation in
form from production to production, and at Davidson the original choreography, creative ad libs, and a lot of input by
each actor made the production exciting and imaginative. As Laura Singleton says, “You can see it so many times, and
each time appreciate it for what it says and the different ways that it is done.”

Matt Merrell played the leading role of Christ. Other members of the cast were Eric Fichtner, Roy Fuller, Suzann Smith,
Cindy Faulkenberry, Doug Vass, David Barber, Stephanie Moffett, Loy Thornton, Charlie Lovett, and Valerie Hinton. The accompanying band was directed
by Pat Donley and included Brian Brost, Earl “Fingers” Witten, George Booth, Curtis Sag, and Laura McDonald.

Before this project, Laura had directed three other musicals: “Annie,” “That's Entertainment,” and “The Pirates of Penzance.” Laura said that
the idea to do Godspell was conceived late one night in early December, and the ball started rolling from there.
One major kink in the process was the dropping out of the original lead. Matt Merrell began filling in four
weeks before showtime.

The profits from three sell-out crowds will go to the Davidson premier production of Raleigh, scheduled for the end of
April.

Newton Allen '84

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 2 April 1982
