Dr. Davies Receives NEH Grant

Assistant professor of classics Dr. Mark Davies is in cahoots with Aristophanes. Davies just received a two-month grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) to study “Wasps” at UNC-Chapel Hill. The ancient Greek comedy plays with law courts and those who must endure them. Aristophanes created “Wasps” towards the end of the 5th century B.C. Davies believes that much of the real comedy in “Wasps” has been lost since then, because the modern era has no solid comprehension of the context in which Aristophanes wrote.

Davies will use the NEH grant to conduct a thorough study of the props and costumes used in the play. Out of his research, Davies hopes to produce a contextual commentary which will accompany the script, to be published in late 1983/early 1984. “People have studied Aristophanes before. But I’m approaching his work from more than a literary point of view. I’m trying to wed his literature with art and archaeological records to develop a better understanding of what his works really meant to Greeks of that era,” Davies said.

One way in which Davies will incorporate archaeology and art with literary criticism is by studying a photographic collection of Greek vases at Oxford University, England, during the summer. In addition, Davies hopes to travel to Athens in the summer of 1983 to study specifically the excavated ruins of Grecian law courts.

Davies, a Princeton graduate, has taught at Davidson since 1971.

Elizabeth Smiley ’84

Davidson String Ensemble

The Davidson String Ensemble will present a spring concert on Tuesday, May 4 at 8:30 p.m. in the 900 Room and will also perform on the Village Green during Town Day on May 1, at noon. Ivan Zugelj, assistant conductor and principal bassist with the Charlotte Symphony, directs the fifteen-member ensemble, which includes four Davidson students and other musicians ranging in age from junior high students to retired persons.

The 900 Room performance will include an arrangement for strings of Romanian Folk Dances by Bela Bartok; Spielerei by Carl Stix; Two Elegiac Melodies, Op. 34, by Edvard Grieg; Jazz Pizzicato by Leroy Anderson; Virginia Dare Dance by Lamar Stringfield; Concerto in E minor for violin and orchestra, Op. 4, No. 2, by Antonio Vivaldi; and Serenade in G major, K. 525, “Eine Kleine Nachtmusik,” by W.A. Mozart. The Town Day performance will include the Bartok and Mozart pieces listed above. Admission to the concerts is free and open to the public.

David Resnik ’85

Ground Zero Week

The Disarmament Study Group and the Chaplain’s office sponsored Ground Zero Week at Davidson last week. Events included films, PBS broadcasts on the Big Screen, a chapel service and sermon with Charlie Summers. The Gallery showed “The Last Epidemic” on Monday, and “The Race Nobody Wins” on Tuesday. “Grassroots Disarmament” was shown in the Morrison Room on Thursday. “Pray for Peace,” a chapel service, was held on Friday morning, and on Sunday Summers delivered a sermon, “Profits of Peace,” in the College Presbyterian Church.

Summers stressed that Ground Zero Week was a national project. “It has been sponsored by a coalition of people, including the Union for Concerned Scientists and Physicians for Social Responsibility,” he said. The film “The Last Epidemic” was shown in Charlotte public schools, and a number of PBS reports were nationally televised during the week. These productions included “Preventing a Nuclear War” on Wednesday and “The Anti-Nuclear Arms Movement in North Carolina” on Friday.Addition, the Davidson sponsors petitioned for the nuclear freeze campaign. The petition will continue to circulate for the next couple of weeks, Summers said. “The general intent of Ground Zero Week was to educate people about the horrors of nuclear war,” Summers said. Supporters of Ground Zero Week claimed to challenge the false impressions that the present administration is giving about Civil Defense. “At this point, there is no way to hide from nuclear war,” Summers added. “Prevention of nuclear war is the only plausible alternative.”

Elizabeth Smiley '84

Clark Ross and Youth Unemployment

Terming the current 20 percent youth unemployment rate “probably the most serious labor problem today,” a Davidson College professor has made recommendations to the N.C. 2000 Commission to help alleviate the situation. Mr. Clark Ross, assistant professor of economics, suggested a program of a state jobs corps, youth-hiring tax credit, and high school jobs counselors in a paper he recently submitted to the commission. If fully implemented, his proposed $13 million program would employ 4,000 people in the 16-19 year old age group, fewer than 10 percent of the 50,000 unemployed youths in the state. The real point, Ross said in conclusion, is that North Carolina “must recognize the tremendous social and private costs of youth unemployment and be willing to experiment with possible remedies. Discouragement among the young should be of particular concern to policymakers since these discouraged youths could become permanent dropouts from the labor force and more likely succumb to drug abuse, alcoholism, and crime,” he said.

Ross’ paper, along with those addressing 13 other economic issues (plus more in the fields of basic human needs, community, and natural resources), will be considered by the N.C. 2000 Commission as it prepares policy recommendations to present to Governor James M. Hunt by the end of the year. Ross earned a Ph.D. from Boston College in 1976. He served as a research scientist at the University of Michigan Center for Research on Economic Development and as an assistant professor at the College of William and Mary before coming to Davidson in 1979.

Over $1000 Pledged in CROP Walk

The annual CROP walk to fight world hunger took place on Sunday, April 25. Students, faculty, and members of local churches received pledges for participating in the ten-mile walkathon. This year more than one thousand dollars was pledged by members of the Davidson community. The money will go to feed hungry people around the world. Gordon Turnbull, the head of the Davidson College CROP organization, expressed his appreciation to all those who contributed to the success of this year’s walk. “I hope that everyone realizes that what may seem like a small contribution to us, makes a great deal of difference to those who would otherwise do without.”

Chris Blake '85

Ralegh! Hits The Road

Charlotte area theatregoers will enjoy their second premiere of the year this weekend when the Davidson College Theatre and Speech Department performs James Pendleton’s Ralegh! at NCNB Performance Place in Spirit Square. The opening night performance will be Friday, April 30, at 8:15 p.m. There will be an additional performance at the same time the following evening, May 1. Tickets for the Spirit Square production are $5.00 and will be on sale at the box office. Reservations and further information are available by calling 892-2000, ext. 340, weekday afternoons. Ralegh! has been supported in part by the Arts and Science Council and the Grassroots Arts Program of the North Carolina Arts Council.

© DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 April 1982