First Step Sports
Running Shoes
New Balance
Nike
Reebok
Tiger

Shorts
Sub-4
Frank Shorter

Hours:
Closed Mon.-Tues.
Heritage Plaza (Room 104)
3:00-5:00 Wed.-Thurs.
(across from 7-Eleven)
2:00-5:30 Fri.
Please call 892-3200/892-6206
10:00-3:00 Sat.

Professors and Religious Beliefs
How do professors attain balance between faith and reason?
By JIM CROWE ’83

“Faith and reason must work together in mutual respect if Davidson is to realize and maintain her vision of excellence
in the field of Christian higher education.”
From Davidson College Statement of Purpose

The Davidson Statement of Purpose clearly commits students and teachers to an integration of faith and reason in the college
community. The actual methods of applying this principle in the student-teacher relationship, however, are not so clear. The role of
the classroom experience in the student’s spiritual life, in particular, stands open to interpretation by individual professors and students alike.
Examining professors’ attitudes toward their unique roles as professional instructors and as people that influence personal belief may shed some
light on this issue.

Most professors feel that at least some element of challenge to personal belief should be involved in all teaching. Samuel
Maloney of the religion department says, “The goal of the liberal arts education is to liberate one from unexamined dogmas.”
He sees the professor as “a catalyst to a maturing process, a questioner” and states, “Our job is to help
students analyze issues to see more clearly, not to indoctrinate.” About the professor’s use of his own religious beliefs, Maloney
says, “Personally we can make stands, and we do, but I don’t think our job is to force our opinions
on the student.”

Philosophy professor Robert Maydole rejects any distinction between academic and personal learning, saying, “Education should always reach the individual as
a person.” He says that the role of the educator is “to upset the apple cart, to make waves, to
clear conceptual cobwebs, to try to get [students] to shed their prejudice, bias, and ill-founded beliefs.” In regard to his
own teaching, Maydole comments, “The pursuit of truth and what that means for the individual’s growth as a free, independent,
and valuing agent will be foremost on my mind.”

English professor Gil Holland also says, “It is important not to draw a line between personal and intellectual matters.” He
states, “Intellectual inquiry is not by nature irreligious.”

While agreeing on the necessity of challenge, many professors differ in the pace of their presentations of challenge to students’
beliefs. Jerry Putnam of the biology department says, “There’s no hurry to make these important changes. I don’t want to
pull anything out of the student’s belief system without assisting them in putting something in its place.” Putnam describes his
goal in teaching as “helping students to build a stable philosophy toward new belief.” He says that his conservative attitude
toward intellectual change reflects a skepticism toward the zealot, religious or scientific. He comments, “I don’t like to induce revolutions,
because I think they just lead to another kind of radicalism.”

William Mahoney of the religion department also says he leans toward a cautious approach. “One of the professor’s jobs is
to expose people compassionately to new ideas without overwhelming them.”

Is the Statement of Purpose restrictive?
By JEFF HOLLAND ’84

What exactly are the restrictions on the faculty when applying for a job or tenure concerning their religious beliefs? Do
professors feel restricted by the College’s Statement of Purpose? AssistantDean of Faculty and Vice-President of Academic Affairs T. C. Price
Zimmermann said that essentially there were none. What is asked of applicants, he said, is to read the Statement of
Purpose and decide whether they can work comfortably in a Christian community with respect for the Christian tradition of the
College. The Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures says in this regard only that if someone is not able to function
properly at Davidson, not only does it not benefit the College, but it does not benefit the individual. It is
a question of mutual convenience.

Paragraph 5, Article IV of the By-laws of the Trustees states this pretty clearly: “The President is also authorized to
recommend for appointment as officers and faculty members non-Christian persons who can work with respect for the Christian tradition even
if they cannot conscientiously join it, and who can live in harmony with the purpose of the College as set
forth in the Davidson College Constitution.”

As to whether professors feel burdened by the College’s Christian commitment, in the process of interviews with department chairmen, the
VPAA, and the President, they “explore further the relationship between the candidate’s religious position and career aspirations and the College’s
objectives as set forth in the Statement of Purpose.” Zimmermann elaborated further, saying that in essence they want to see
if the goals and aspirations of the faculty and the College can exist together harmoniously. He said that the College
does not want to hire someone who cannot get along comfortably in the community or who does not have respect
for the Christian commitment of the College.

Zimmermann added, “If someone is passionately and gently open to new positions and new things.” He indicates that an expansion
of ideas is central to his teaching, saying, “I don’t think there’s ever any danger in trying to understand someone
else. Of course, that doesn’t mean you have to agree with them.” Mahoney says he welcomes interaction with students on
all levels. He comments, “Teachers are people and so are students, so I think that it is fully appropriate to
address personal situations together.”

Philosophy department chairman Earl MacCormac stresses the need for professors “to challenge in a compassionate, not paternalistic or condescending, way.”
He says, “The primary role of the professor is to respect the student.” In regard to Davidson’s commitment as a
Christian community, he further states, “Davidson can espouse Christian belief by having respect for persons.” MacCormac thinks this respect is
critical because, “Universities and colleges do not indoctrinate. They allow us to investigate a spirit of free inquiry.”

It is hard to say and perhaps is hard for the professor to say as well. However, by looking at
the different approaches to teaching that the faculty have expressed, it seems that their approaches reflect their own personal philosophies
of teaching and are not dogmatic approaches. The majority of the professors interviewed advocated a cautious, conservative approach, a fact
which is perhaps more likely a reflection of the type of professors that Davidson attracts rather than the result of
a paternal hand or an overshadowing institution. As Dr. Zimmermann pointed out, “Someone who doesn’t feel comfortable at Davidson is
not going to want to teach here.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 15 October 1982
