From the Recruiter’s Car

So you thought 1982 NCAA basketball ended on Bourbon St.? And you thought Davidson basketball ended long before that? In a sense, yes. But not quite. In just a few days, high school stars across the nation will sign letters of intent, and you’d better believe it’s part of basketball season. This crazy world of recruiting goes on long past the season per se, but rarely do we hear about it until players sign. Well, no more. I had the chance to hit the road with Gerry Vaillancourt, and en route, he helped shed some light on his world of chuckles and grins.

Q: You travel an awful lot of miles. How do you pass the time?
A: You try to do little things—like, I try to rate the hot chocolates at different places.

Q: What’s got the best rating so far?
A: Oh, so far McDonald’s is number one right now. The number one coffee is Dunkin’ Donuts, but 7-11’s is pushing a close second. You do little mind games with yourself while you’re driving. Hotel selection is key. Although blessed with a great budget, we try to save money every place we go, but if you can get a great deal on a room that has ESPN, by all means, you have to take it, because then you can watch basketball games until your eyes fall out! If you have Home Box and ESPN, that is a double bubble. That means you are really in.

Q: What are some embarrassing situations you’ve run into?
A: One time I went to say hello to a guy and called him by the wrong name. But he wasn’t a player. It was some coach. He corrected me, but it wasn’t so bad because he kept calling me Paul all night.

Q: What’s the strangest thing you’ve ever run into?
A: With all the traveling you do, something is bound to happen sometimes. One time I was in a hotel and I fell asleep. About four o’clock in the morning, there’s somebody opening my hotel room door. I’ve got the chain on the door so he couldn’t get in, but I hear da-boom, da-boom, da-boom trying to open the door. There I am having visions of Coach Found Dead in Hotel Room, and I jump up, put my foot on the door, and slam it closed on this guy’s hand. He starts screaming. I’m yelling, “What do you want?” but not that politely—I kicked in a few street adjectives. And the guy’s screaming, “What are you doing in my room?” This is four o’clock in the morning! As it turned out, the girl at the desk registered me for a room but gave me the key to another room. And the manager’s out in the hall with this guy figuring somebody might have snuck into the room. That scared me to death.

Q: Any other fears?
A: I think the greatest fear an assistant coach has traveling on the road is the late-night flat tire. I think any coach...in the country would agree with that. It’s one of the Top 10 fears. Another is hitting a bump while you're drinking hot coffee.

Q: What’s your philosophy of recruiting?
A: First of all, our philosophy of recruiting is based on what Coach Hussey likes. He [a recruit] has to get into Davidson, and be a player that we feel will academically survive at Davidson.

Q: About how many players out of the average high school class does that knock out?
A: We knock out about seven out of ten. Right away you know who you can recruit, so you won't waste any time. We wanna recruit people with good attitudes, people who believe in overachieving, and people who will fit into our system.

Q: Do you have a hard time selling Davidson?
A: Well, academically the name Davidson will get us in the door, sitting in an airport waiting for a plane, because we are Davidson. Now that has a plus and it has a drawback. The plus is you'll get into a player’s top 6 or top 8 only because you’re Davidson, because it carries some prestige.

Q: You mean people have heard of Davidson?
A: Oh yeah. We will get involved with a player because we are Davidson. Now that has a plus and it has a drawback. The plus is you’ll get into a player’s top 6 or top 8 only because you’re Davidson, because it carries some prestige. The drawback about it is if we get involved with a player that only wants to be involved with Davidson just so he can say he was recruited by one of the best academic schools in the country. We really have to read his interest.

Q: But Coach—why do you go through all this?
A: The outsider doesn’t understand. This is our life—this is what we like. We like our job. Of course it’s work, but it’s not the type of work that’s killing you. It’s a turn-on. How many people can say that about their jobs? It’s a job suited for me because it’s a job where you deal with people and you get to run your mouth, and I love to run my mouth. My eyes sometimes have the tendency to start turning brown... Don’t get me wrong—there are times—3 o’clock in the morning, I'll be out there going all over the country, and you're looking for players and you’re coaching and you’re getting so excited about what people say is just a game? And I tell myself when you sit back and relax and you think about it, it’s because I love it. People come up to me and say, “How can you do that?” It's because—I love it.

Steve Soud with Gerry Vaillancourt

COME AND GET YOUR FILL
NIGHT SPECIAL $3.50
ALL YOU CAN EAT
PIZZA, SALAD

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9 April 1982