Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

DB & SS’s Mailbox

Since we haven’t written a column in so long, the letters have been piling up. So here are a few
of the better ones:

Dear DB & SS:
We'd like to invite all interested and disturbed members of the Davidson College family to a rally about one of
the most serious problems to face the College in years: the laundry. We will start by showing a 45-minute documentary
entitled “Clean Clothes or Death.” This will develop the roles the administration and faculty have had in the establishment of
the laundry and the rise of Dirt T. Sheets, a renowned anti-laundry advocate.

Following this most entertaining film will be a talk by Dr. Dean Smith, who recently led the Tar Heels to
another Final Four appearance. UNC owes a lot to Davidson and as a token of our appreciation, I will be
at a special Coffee and Cokes this Friday to answer any questions you may have. Also, I will have several
tickets to give away to New Orleans.

Dean Smith

Dear Doughboys:

Do you think it would be possible for you to write the column when you're supposed to? You are undoubtedly
the laziest people in the school. And when you do write, all you do is make fun of the administration
and make it less than just one big joke.

The Davidson Coalition on the Laundry

Dear DB & SS:

The Slimshafts

Dear Slimshafts:

You can pick your friends and you can pick your nose. But you can’t wipe your friends on the couch.

The Doughboys

Dear DB & SS:
Please clear up a question I have. Can mentally disabled people park in the Faculty Parking Lot? A lot of
us have been wondering.

Will

Dear Will:

Why did the monkey fall out of the tree? Because he was dead.

Doughboys

Dear DB:

We just wanted to express our sincere appreciation to Grover Meetze for the fine job he did in constructing our
new birch patio in back of Watts. It makes the “Ghetto Life” a whole lot easier to deal with. Once
the new Jacuzzi gets built it will really be nice.

Gibby and the rest of the janitors

What does the “W” in Samuel W. Outten stand for?

a) Women
b) Wimp
c) Wuss
d) All of the above.

By the way, why didn’t you buy Roger a six-pack? You know who this applies to.

Remember THE Phonathon?

It was all that fantastic student effort to help increase alumni giving. Well, these restaurants and stores supported the Phonathon
by giving gift certificates to award as prizes for each of the two most successful night callers. Please REMEMBER that
they are interested in Davidson College next time you eat out.

PA PA's Pizza............ Mooresville
Darryl's.................. Charlotte
Pizza Hut................ Mooresville
Village Store............. Davidson
Western Steer............. Mooresville
Victoria Station.......... Charlotte
Open Kitchen.............. Charlotte
Quincy’s.................. Cornelius
Gus’s 49er................ Charlotte
La Strada................. Charlotte
JOSH’S.................... Charlotte
Boar's Head............... Charlotte
Dikadee’s Front Porch..... Charlotte
Gus’s..................... Davidson
Little Kitchen............ Mooresville

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982
