, Continued from page 1

Dean Ross also felt that the group has been the strongest so far, and that its great “willingness to participate” might help explain the conflicts in opinion. Most international students were supportive of Hawkins and Roberts and almost all of the students interviewed said that their co-chairmen worked very hard and very enthusiastically. Hawkins and Roberts thought that their experience proved successful in the long run: “Frankly, I don’t think anyone could have done a more efficient job,” Hawkins said. The committee was burdened by a low budget, hasty formation and a lack of experienced leadership. The Union Policy Committee voted its formation last Spring, and the co-chairmen were selected by Dean Ross just before school. “It was all trial and error,” Roberts said.

Plans for the Spring include an International Fair, involving as many international students as possible, according to Helen Thorpe and John Hackett. Hawkins and Roberts said the committee is considering another proposal to form a new, smaller committee which would begin next year. This committee would replace the larger open meetings now conducted, would be composed of a limited number of members (6-8), and would facilitate the organization of events. Hawkins and Roberts said they now have a clearer perspective on the purpose of the International Committee. According to them, its tripartite functions are to help returning JYA students readjust to campus life and share their experiences; to organize activities in which the international students can interact with Davidson students and increase cultural exposure; and to use the committee as a medium for student awareness of world issues. “We’re not catering to personal needs. This is a committee for the campus. It’s a forum,” Hawkins said.

This week and in the coming weeks, the Union is holding sign-ups and interviews for a new committee chairman. Even so, there remain disagreements about the outlines of the committee, especially from the international students. Melis Nicolaides, for instance, felt that committee attention to JYA interests is important, but added that “the nucleus of the committee should be the foreign students.” Before he transferred to Duke winter term, Kenyan Mahmoud Sayani presented a set of proposals to Dean Ross outlining directional changes he felt the committee should make. Hawkins and Roberts refused to comment on the proposals, and Dean Ross was reluctant to release them to the public.

by Elizabeth Smiley and John Krotchko

24 Professors Discuss Issues of Global Concern with Freshmen

Twenty-four professors in groups of three have discussed issues of global concern for one hour with all 15 freshman halls in the last few weeks. The issues covered varied from group to group but included hunger, the world ecological situation, problems in creating a world bank and the Nestle boycott, among many. Approximately 75% of all freshmen attended. The discussions were part of the Task Force on Global Affairs’ efforts to increase and evaluate campus awareness of global issues. Dean of Academic Affairs T. C. Price Zimmerman formed the task force in theWinter of last year following an appeal to all North Carolina colleges by the Carolina Academy of Science. The Academy urged "that a committee be created to review the current teaching about environmental degradation, population growth, and resource depletion, to propose new teaching programs that emphasize the interconnected nature of these three phenomena and to stress an interdisciplinary approach to them." Biology Professor Cindy Grant heads the eighty-member committee. The task force surveyed the faculty last March and determined that new courses should not be created to specifically address world issues. The faculty’s response, Dr. Grant said, indicated that many Davidson courses, such as Humanities, Economics, Biology, and Center courses, contain aspects which apply to global problems. The task force conceived the idea of discussions with freshman halls as the best way to promote awareness of global problems while at a two-day workshop last August. Dr. Grant was pleased with the success of the discussions. “Most of those who had not already thought about these issues,” she said, “were pretty impressed with the magnitude of the world’s problems, and were genuinely concerned.” Freshmen on Ellis Tinsley and Brad Mullis’s hall continued the discussion for 20-30 minutes after the professors left. The task force also sponsored the showing of “Survival of the Spaceship Earth” which 100-150 people saw last week. The Task Force on Global Affairs will report to the Educational Policy Committee before taking further action.

By Dan Turk ’84

The Cultivation of Capital Gifts

Davidson College needs $35 million by its 150th anniversary in 1987. Don’t tell Jerry Stockdale that it’s impossible. The new director of select gifts is enthusiastic about both Davidson and its money-making ability. A strong background in communications qualifies Mr. Stockdale for the job, but it was an attraction to “the whole philosophy” of Davidson that brought him here. “When I was able to return to academia, Davidson was my first choice.” The Davidson “1987 program” will attempt to raise its $35 million goal through four plans: annual giving, deferred giving (such as annuities and insurance), corporate giving, and capital gifts. Mr. Stockdale is in charge of this last category, which involves a solicitation of gifts from alumni. Potential donors are asked to form alumni volunteer organizations whose purpose is to contact other alumni about donations. However, solicitation of gifts involves a long, gradual process called “cultivation.” Potential donors are reacquainted with Davidson, to see what the college is like now. Thus it is not a straightforward asking for donations, but rather a long program that allows the alumnus to get to know the college again. In general, funds from the 1987 program go to the endowment, which helps meet annual operating expenses for the college. Also, alumni may earmark their gift for a particular purpose. Mr. Stockdale is very optimistic about the program, firmly believing that the goal can be reached and passed before 1987.

Mark W. Batten ’85

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 29 January 1982