Stale and Hardened Petroleum Jelly Will Benefit No One

Hundreds of boxes of virtually useless food and medical supplies gather dust in the gymnasium’s basement. These supplies were allocated to Davidson College by the Civil Defense in 1964. At that time, the basements of Chambers, Belk, and the Gymnasium were serving as emergency air raid shelters. Within a few years, however, all the supplies were transferred from these shelters to two tiny rooms under the gymnasium pool.

The air raid shelters had been deemed ineffective, so there was no point in keeping them stocked, especially since the additional space was needed for other things in the basement of Chambers.

An interesting afternoon could be spent looking through the countless boxes of survival materials. Possibly, the most fascinating items are the medical supplies. Bottles of diarrhea medicine, constipation remedies, and penicillin, all expired, await disposal. There are also thousands of pills - phenobarbital, aspirin, sulfadiazine, and even water purification tablets. None are of use any longer. They are as obsolete as the shelters themselves.

No one seems to know how many supplies are stored under the pool, or who owns the materials; Buddy Robinson, the gentleman who has the keys to the gym’s basement, speculates that the Civil Defense Department still has control over the supplies. They have, however, claimed nothing, so everything simply sits in two tiny, musty rooms doing absolutely no good.

Of course, stale and hardened petroleum jelly will benefit no one. Some useful items can be found, though. Gauze, cotton, bandages, scissors, safety pins, syringes, thermometers, and forceps could all be used if the need arose. Even the numerous boxes of tongue depressors and the disposable toilet seats could serve some purpose.

It is rather odd that while Davidson's air raid shelters were all abandoned in the sixties, the supplies they were stocked with are still locked away awaiting disposal. No new shelters have been created; none of the food or medicine has been replenished. It seems that those hundreds of boxes are condemned to remain under the pool forever—at least until a nuclear war.

By Roxanna Guilford
Photo by Anderson Scott ‘84

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 5 February 1982