Field Hockey Defeats High Point 4-3

Record builds to 4-1

By KARA GILMORE ’86

The past week was a roller coaster ride for the Field Hockey team.

It started off on a high with a 3-2 victory over Catawba on their field—if you want to call a
slanted gravel pit a field! The Cats got off to a quick start, taking a 2-0 lead on goals by
Amy Crittenberger and Susie Klineman. Catawba fought back to even the score at 2, in the second half. It remained
that way until Davidson’s constant offensive pressure resulted in a goal by Mavin Martin. The Cats defense held tough the
rest of the way and the game ended in a 3-2 win.

Saturday the roller coaster took a quick dip, as the visiting V.C.U. Rams snapped the Lady Cats’ three-game winning streak
with a 3-2 double overtime victory. The game was one the team felt they should have won, but as Coach
Mayes said, “We lacked consistency—we weren’t intense enough the whole game—only in spurts. We had to play more as a
unit instead of as individuals. Everyone had their bright spots, but they didn’t seem to come at the same time.”
It was a back and forth rough and tumble game the whole way (you know what I mean if you’ve
seen Sarah Hart—alias Rocky in the past few days—beautiful shiner Sarah!)

Davidson took a 1-0 lead in the first half on a shot from near the top of the circle by
Lou Hamilton. V.C.U. tied it at 1 before the half. But the Cats came out fired up in the second
half, and with only a few minutes gone Amy Crittenberger blasted one in off a penalty corner. The Cats held
the lead until only five minutes remained—when V.C.U. tied it at 2.

The first overtime period went scoreless although Davidson dominated it and had numerous shots on goal. With 3 minutes remaining
in the second overtime V.C.U. scored to take a 3-2 lead. The Cats fought back hard until the end, but
time ran out and they were handed their first defeat of the season.

Not to be held down, Davidson fought it out against arch rival High Point College, and won in a flick-off
(similar to a shoot-out in soccer) ending the week back on the upswing. In the High Point game the Ladycats
found themselves down 2-0 midway through the first half. Then things turned around and Davidson took control for a while.
By halftime they had pulled to within 1, on the strength of a goal by Hart.

Coming out strong in the second half, the Cats scored again on Sarah’s second goal. The game ended in a
2-2 deadlock. After two, 7½ minute overtime periods the score remained tied. Flick-off time!

In a flick-off each team selects five players to shoot one on one against the goalie from a designated mark
in front of the goal. Amy Crittenberger scored for the Cats on one of her famous flicks as did freshman
Susie Klineman. Goalie Cathy Morell was outstanding, closing the door on High Point after only one of their flickers managed
a score.

By MARK MORRISON ’83

The Davidson College Rugby Club is off to an outstanding start this year.

During the first week of school, the Club pulled a surprising 24-3 victory over Virginia’s Dan River Rugby Club. Hunter
Gourley, Todd Thompson, and Ed Henderson each scored a “try” (TD) for a total of 12 points. Scrum-half Jim Brueggemann
added 12 more points for the Cats by kicking 3 conversions and 2 field goals.

This past Saturday at Greensboro, the Davidson Ruggers faced a tough UNC-G Club. Although UNC-G whipped the Cats 54-0 last
year, this year the tables turned dramatically. The Davidson Scrum led by pack leader Theo Wright and freshman Patrick McMaster
dominated the Greensboro scrum-forwards.

Senior Carol Heppner has returned to the lineup giving added scoring punch to the front line.

The Ladycats take their 4-1 record to Boone this weekend for 3 tough games against Hollins, Longwood, and Appalachian State.

Coach Mayes said, “We played much better than on Saturday against V.C.U. Everyone really hustled—I felt we deserved to win.”

Rugby Upsets UNC-G 12-9

The first half ended with the score tied at 3 points apiece.

In the second half, backs Will Cardwell and Jay Gaither consistently moved the ball for the Cats keeping the ball
near the Greensboro end zone. This culminated in two more 3 pointers for Brueggemann.

With a minute left in the game, Greensboro was within 10 yards of scoring a try to tie the game.
A Greensboro back was able to carry the ball into the end zone, but, Cardwell, Joe McMullen, and Andy McRee
gang-tackled the runner and slammed him out of bounds before he could touch the ball down to score. The final
score was Davidson 9, UNC-G 3.

DCRG will meet N.C. State’s Rugby Club here at home tomorrow, October 2 at 1:30 on the lower football field.
Come out and support your Davidson hooker (Nick Tsantes)!

Jim Brueggemann shakes off a tackler.
