Heartland Spins Harsh, Beautiful Story

If you plan to cruise through this midwinter weekend in a lifeboat like I am, or even if you intend to go on board with the rest of the crew, I have a movie for you. Heartland is an extraordinary movie about extraordinarily ordinary people. Heartland is as simple as the story it spins and as harsh and beautiful as the setting of this story. Wyoming and Burnt Fork are unknowns to Eleanor Randall, who in answer to a newspaper classified ad heads west to “keep house” for Mr. Stewart and the piece of sprawling land and sky which is his ranch.

Heartland brings people together, and this proves no less true for the audience as it does for the characters. Eleanor Randall and Clyde Stewart were actually early 19th century homesteaders, and came together due to a piece of paper. Later they joined in marriage, combining forces to tame the wild land they loved, but which seemed to hate them. I came together with the other two members of this particular Wednesday-night audience (namely Mable Teague and Jim Franklin) due to a piece of celluloid. Before the movie began, Mable, Jim and I played that unavoidable game of chit-chat and found out we had more in common than just coming to see the same movie (if you really care to know, Mable’s son attends Jim’s Alma Mater, which consistently beats Davidson in soccer). Yet, afterwards we needed only to smile and blow our noses and look each other in the eye as we slowly left the theatre.

Heartland made me feel good, even as I bushwhacked through the concrete jungle on my way back to Davidson, thinking about how I will fix the flat tire and unfinished reading I left behind, and where to park the car I borrowed. How can I describe a movie which made me cry with joy when a baby was born in the dead of winter and smile with sadness when the same infant was buried as the snow melted and the prairie came to life that spring?

Heartland was produced and directed by Michael Hausman, Richard Pearce and Beth Farris. These names were as little known to me as the fact that the film was made possible by the National Endowment for the Humanities. Obviously a product of a new breed of quasi-independent filmmakers, Heartland will hopefully not be put out to pasture.

The casting is warm and appropriate; we are introduced to a new field of exciting strangers to the screen (especially Conchata Ferrell as Eleanor Randall and Megan Folsom as Grandmother Landower). The minimalistic and meticulous acting is perhaps rivaled only by the cinematic beauty of the Wyoming countryside. Heartland also is rumored to have cost under $100,000 to produce, which doesn’t make me feel so bad about being a third of the audience. Clearly Heartland is not only a movie about pioneers, but a pioneer movie. It sees into the life of things. It might make you think, but mostly it will make you feel.

An uncommon movie about common people, Heartland is also a friendly movie about strangers finding each other, and finding themselves less cold because of it.

Heartland plays at the Capri Theatre on Independence Blvd. through Wednesday, February 3.

by Andrew Wilson

---

Yes, your Army has more than 8,600 aircraft in its active, reserve and national guard fleet—more aircraft, in fact, than the Air Force!

If you truly want to fly with the brave—seek out the Army’s Air Cavalry. Out front, leading the way—flying among the trees, seeing without being seen—at the controls of the world’s most sophisticated attack helicopter.

You must possess stamina, agility, and resourcefulness to handle one of these birds. Decisions must be quick when dodging trees at 50 knots and orchestrating the movements and actions of the other members of your team. Quickness, decisiveness—this kind of experience is what employers are looking for.

Get your future off the ground now! Find out how Army ROTC can prepare you for this or many other challenging positions of responsibility. See the Professor of Military Science on your campus.

CPT A. G. Brauer II
892-2000, ext. 170
Basement Belk

---

OWN YOUR OWN VACATION HOME

Beech Mountain

WHAT IS TIMESHARING?

Timeshare ownership is a real estate concept that allows you to own a beautiful vacation home at just a fraction of the normal cost. Timesharing makes owning a vacation home in North Carolina a reality.

For more information call (704) 523-5169 or visit our offices at 301 E. Woodland Road, Charlotte, North Carolina.

A TIMESHARE RESORT

---

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 29 January 1982