There is constant shuffling, passing, shooting, blocking out, rebounding, and moving without the ball. On an occasional halt in play,
players bend at the waist gasping for more oxygen. Beads of sweat trickle from their brows. Even those in the
best of shape feel the fatigue. It practically lingers in the air. Undeniably, basketball practice is not the most exciting
and worthwhile aspect of the sport. It is the actual game that counts, the time when the popcorn starts popping
and when the thunderous roar of a packed Johnston Gym signals a 20-foot swish by a Wildcat guard. The game,
after all, is what it is all about.

But for sophomore Frank Johnson, there is little such glory. In fact, he doesn’t even capture the thrill of shooting
pre-game layups. Clad in a red sweater, he simply sits at the end of the bench recording Wildcat statistics for
now.

He practices with the team, endures the whole treatment: strenuous drilling, shooting, defending, jumping, and an occasional elbow to the
ribs. But because he transferred to Davidson from Belmont Abbey this year, the NCAA says he must sit out a
season. Nevertheless, he continues. The only glory he experiences is perhaps a dunk in practice, a spectacle only his teammates
witness. According to him, however, his efforts are well worth the time. “I’m just thrilled to be here,” he says.
“If you had told me a year ago I’d be at Davidson College, I would have just laughed. Sure I’m
giving up something, but I feel the returns on this investment will prove to be much better than the penalty.
My time will come. I’ll just have to be ready for it.”

Being ready appears a cinch. Frank boasts a whopping 39” vertical jump and at 6’3” has a shooting touch which
can rival that of any big guard around. In both his junior and senior years at Garringer High School in
Charlotte, he earned All-Conference honors while averaging 18 points and 10 rebounds a game. Highly recruited by Coach Hussey at
Belmont Abbey, he disappointed no one by getting extensive playing time as a freshman.

Frank’s background is typical of that of most Davidson students. He grew up in a poor section of Charlotte, and
his father had to scratch and scrounge to keep the family comfortable. “We were, still are, financially poor,” he says.
“But I did have a happy childhood. We had the basics, clean clothes and food. Most importantly, I was in
a home full of Christian love. The fact that we did not have a lot actually brought us closer.”

Frank loved to play basketball in the park. But in the seventh grade, he claims, he was the worst player
on the team, had big feet, and was clumsy. That summer his parents saved $90 and sent him to the
UNCC basketball camp. Frank returned and the next year took MVP honors of the junior varsity.

From then to now he has retained one goal, a destination which typifies anyone’s boyish aspirations. “I want to play
professional basketball,” he says. “I know the chances are slim, but I have faith that I’m here now, and I’d
like to play ball so perhaps I could help them out financially for all they’ve done for me.”

If he does not make it into the professional ranks, Frank knows he will have a Davidson degree to fall
back on, hopefully one in economics. “You have to take it one day at a time,” he says. “I don’t
know what’s in store for the future, and that’s why my education is so important. People need to be prepared
to face adversity, and I want to be ready.”

---

Second Half Irish Boosts Dame over Davidson

All good times must come to an end, and so it was with a 10-point Wildcat lead over the Fighting
Irish of Notre Dame in hoops action Sunday in South Bend. The Wildcats could do little wrong in the first
half as they shot a phenomenal 64% from the field. Meanwhile, the slumping Irish, 2-9 and trying to pull out
of a five-game losing skid (all on the road), couldn’t crack the tight Davidson zone defense. Put the two together,
and Davidson came up with a 10-point lead.

Then, with 3:43 left in the first half, the lead started to come to an end, and by halftime it
was history. Notre Dame, behind the hot hands of Cecil Rocker and Ron Rowan, had tied the game at 27.

The second half was all Notre Dame, and it wasn’t all the luck of the Irish. The majority of Davidson's
13 turnovers came in the second half, and Notre Dame’s superior rebounding became painfully obvious as the Irish more than
doubled (31-15) Davidson’s haul. Rebounding has been an Achilles’ heel for Davidson all season. Davidson’s second-half shooting was around 40%
as well.

By the end of the first half, Notre Dame had swung the momentum its way, and a 14-4 spurt in
the first 12 minutes of the second half sealed the Wildcat fate. Davidson, in the midst of a five-game road
trip, fell to 6-10 with a 45-59 loss.

Tomorrow the Cats visit Marshall as they seek revenge for the Herd’s last-second win here. From Huntington, they travel directly
to Lexington, Virginia, where they will meet VMI in the Keydets’ Cameron Arena.
