Midnight Madness Is in the Air
Hoops at High Moon
By STEVE SOUD ’84

Lefty Driesell started it, Terry Holland ended it, and Bobby Hussey has begun it again. In the new tradition of
Davidson basketball, this year’s MIDNIGHT MADNESS will be better than ever, and you won’t want to miss it.

The basic premise behind Midnight Madness is the NCAA declaration that no basketball teams may start practice before 15 October.
Bobby Hussey, not wishing to lose a step on anyone, will start at 12:01 AM Thursday night/Friday morning. But that
doesn’t say a darn thing about all the FUN.

T-shirts
The doors to Johnston Gym will open at 10:30 Thursday night, and the first 200 fans in the door will
each receive a free, customized Midnight Madness t-shirt. Mark Goodwin will get one, so if you want to be a
stud, too, you’ll be sure to get yours!

Dunk Contest
So you wanna prove to the Sixers that buying Moses Malone was a waste of $13 million because they could
have gotten a better player in you for $3 million? If the NBA played on 8-foot rims, maybe you’d make
it, but Midnight Madness has the perfect job for you. Sign up a five-person team roster at the Ticket Office
in the Gym by 5:00 PM Wednesday the 13th, and you’ll have a chance to do 360s and 720s ’til
you're dizzy. Competition will begin at 11:00 Thursday night, and winners will be judged on the basis of crowd applause.
Each member of the winning team will receive a prize. Mark Goodwin will probably not participate.

Mattress Mountain
If you thought VW Beetles and telephone booths were fun, you haven’t tried Mattress Mountain Madness. It’s the greatest thing
since greasers and the Stray Cats. It’s a race against the clock, and each team will have three minutes to
stack as many members in head-to-head competition as possible. Bealer Wholesale is sponsoring the event, believed to be the first-ever
such event held outside House, and the winners will receive a gift certificate for a certain beverage. Unfortunately, Susan Anton
and her Serta will not participate.

From the Locker Room
Well, folks, it’s been an eventful week to say the least, and although I’d like to write a column on
each of a variety of subjects, I shall do my best to limit my digression to but one article. Now
that I’ve gotten rid of that mouthful, I'll get on with the show.

I’ll begin by poking a little fun at the armchair manager institution, Sports Illustrated. In April, they made their perennial
venture out onto the oh-so-thin branch of prediction of pro baseball (SI, April 12, 1982). Come October, I doubt many
people check up on just how far the venerable magazine fell. Below are listings of each division’s actual order of
finish, and in parentheses SI’s predicted finish:

AL East
1. Milwaukee (1)
2. Baltimore (5)
3. Boston (6)
4. Detroit (3)
5. New York (2)
6. Cleveland (4)
7. Toronto (7)

AL West
1. California (2)
2. Kansas City (5)
3. Chicago (3)
4. Seattle (6)
5. Oakland (1)
6. Texas (4)
7. Minnesota (7)

NL East
1. St. Louis (4)
2. Philadelphia (2)
3. Montreal (1)
4. Pittsburgh (5)
5. Chicago (6)
6. New York (3)

NL West
1. Atlanta (4)
2. Los Angeles (1)
3. San Francisco (5)
4. San Diego (6)
5. Houston (2)
6. Cincinnati (3)

Karl Kremser... drew up his roster with the finalists of a longest name contest. Gee, Sports Illustrated never did a
spread on Davidson soccer, and many soccer players are quite angered that seemingly no one pays them any mind. Well,
now I’m writing about them, so they can no longer complain about the lack.of national exposure. To butcher a Neil
Armstrongism, Saturday’s tie with FIU was “One tie for Davidson soccer, one victory for American soccer.” The way I figure
it, Karl Kremser drew up his team in one of two ways: either he was showing his prowess in foreign
geography, or he drew up his roster with the finalists of a longest name contest. I’m not sure which one
he did, but if it was the latter, Socrates Amanthapopoulos won hands down. I venture to say FIU could have
at any time fielded a team with players who spoke at least five different native tongues. In fact, they had
players of twelve different nationalities on their roster. Davidson, on the other hand, has a starting lineup composed solely of
Americans. In fact, Tony Cabrales is the only foreigner on the team, and he went to a New York high
school.

What we have, then, is American soccer, still in its infancy, against the rest of the world, if you will.
I suppose you could compare it to Yugoslavia playing America in basketball. Teams may register by 5:00 PM Wednesday the
13th at the Ticket Office (sound familiar?), and they expect at least eight teams. Mark Goodwin probably will not participate,
but he does pick 3rd Rich to win by two.

Hoops

So last year I gave you the entire life histories of the new recruits, and six months later you’re finally
ready to see them play? Well, Midnight Madness is the time. Finally, you can see super-smooth Pepper Bego, new waver
Gerry Born, Jammin’ Jim McConkey, and the rest of the outstanding freshman class. Not to mention the electrifying Brian Rowan,
Cliff “Bullseye” Tribus, Frank “J” Johnson (alias Captain Sky), Kenny “Cadillac” Wilson, and so many more! It’s a Davidson fan's
feast, a basketball bonanza, a solid half hour (15-minute running clock halves) of great hoops! Ladies and gentlemen, this reporter
will be there and so will Mark Goodwin, so you won’t want to miss the crowd, the action, and the
fun.

Soud is Sports Editor of The Davidsonian.

This same sort of American victory occurred in Durham earlier in the week. There, Duke, an American-dominated team, beat Clemson,
a perennial national power founded almost completely on foreigners. (Football fans may recall names of Tiger placekickers, stolen from the
soccer program, with names such as Obed Ariri.) After the 1-0 loss, the Clemson coach, of the conspicuously foreign name
Ibrahim Ibrahim, admitted that he could no longer rely solely on foreign players. In another sense, he was acknowledging American
soccer was finally reaching a level of respect, both for him and his program and foreign soccer as a whole.
Davidson, albeit on a smaller scale, did just the same thing. They came out of the game undefeated. Not unscathed—but
undefeated. A tie for Davidson, a win for America.

The FIU game was, of course, only the prelude to the Appalachian State game. The Mountaineers were riding a 40-game
undefeated streak in the Conference, and the Cats demolished them. Those of you who witnessed it witnessed not just one
of the greatest wins in Davidson soccer history, but one of the greatest wins in Davidson history.

The obvious question is how this dramatic change in Davidson soccer occurred. To begin with, Charlie Slagle is doing a
fantastic recruiting job. This year he brought in a superb freshman class, and four of them are playing regularly and
doing far better than expected. Woody has been a veritable Rock of Gibraltar in back. Tony Cabrales, Sean Austin, Bill
Coxhead, and Wallis Goodman have all come on to play excellent ball. Sophomores Dave Flowers, Jim Wright, Mike Mauze, and
Steve Bernhardt are all making great contributions as well.

Continued

12 THE DAVIDSONIAN/8 October 1982
