Davidson Jeremiah Maleche is a native Kenyan and the principal of a school in the village of Bushiangala, Kenya. His wife, Dina, is a nurse and works in a medical clinic in the same village. They were both on campus last week as guests of the college and the Careers Office to talk about Kenya and the Davidson students and graduates who go there to teach. Since Crawford Crenshaw ’72 went to Mr. Maleche’s school in Kenya seven years ago, a steady stream of Davidson students have made the journey to this East African republic. Some have stayed only three days before asking Mr. Maleche to drive them back down the 20 km of dusty road which leads to Kakamega and a plane home. Others like Crenshaw, Andy Miller, Cathy Ansheles, and Mike McGrady have stayed—some as long as 2 1/2 years. 

Mr. Maleche speaks of Crawford Crenshaw almost as a legend. He explains, “In Kenya carrying water to the home is a woman’s job.” Until Crenshaw came, the women of Bushiangala with water pots on their heads made the long trek to a spring and back each day. Crenshaw somehow managed to convince a Dutch aid agency to give funds to build a small dam and lay pipe into the village. And then there is a medical clinic. Before Crawford Crenshaw came, the closest medical attention was 20 km away in Kakamega. Crenshaw, who was headmaster at the local school, was faced with dropping enrollment because so many children were sick with malaria. He came up with a plan to divert tuition money from the school to help build a clinic to treat school children and members of the community as well. Those in the community paid for medical treatment and the school was eventually reimbursed for the loan.

The stories go on about other Davidson graduates. One started a new school village. Another was responsible for getting a classroom built in another town. Mr. Maleche also tells of a British bicycle rider who was on his way through Kenya to South Africa. He met a Davidson student who was teaching at a school. Somehow the Davidson student convinced him to stay and become a teacher himself.

Mr. Maleche emphasizes that our education here in America is mostly theoretical but in Kenya it becomes practical. The organizational and administrative skills which we use every day and take for granted are needed in third world countries. Mike McGrady, who has recently returned from Kenya, says that we know more than we think we do and in Kenya our knowledge can be put to practical use and tested. A student who decides to live and work in Kenya finds out he has the ability to rally people around a cause, such as the building of a classroom. Or maybe he finds that he can see how to make a local business more efficient. And someone interested in medicine can certainly find out about the practical side of medicine after working in Dina Maleche’s clinic for a while.

Mr. Maleche has no official role other than principal of his school. But he sees his unofficial job as that of easing the transition of Davidson students into the Kenyan community they choose. He encourages newcomers to look around and select carefully where they best fit in, be it a tiny bush school or a large government school such as the one Mike McGrady taught in. Can you be the headmaster of a struggling school? Or are you more comfortable as a teacher? Your limits are your own confidence and abilities. “In Kenya you will learn to be patient if you want to get anything done,” Mr. Maleche says. Many abandoned school projects stand half-finished as testimonials to his words. Continuity of effort is the key to success in Kenya. There is the story of a small school where an American student became headmaster. He increased the enrollment and started many good programs and then left without replacement. The school stagnated without leadership and when another American came she found only problems at the school.Eventually, there was a riot between students and teachers. The new American teacher left and was replaced in another school, but the school she left has dwindled and become very small again. It is problems such as this which Mr. Maleche seeks to prevent. He is in the United States now for the first time to keep the flow of students coming, to ensure the continuity of effort which can slowly gnaw away at Kenya’s problems.

Why not the Peace Corps? Why is this unofficial student program so important to Mr. Maleche? He explains that agencies such as the Peace Corps and the British Voluntary Service (B.V.S.) must work through a bureaucracy. He tells of a B.V.S. representative who refused to place a volunteer at his school because there was no doctor near enough nor any house with running water. He adds that Davidson students have survived quite well under these conditions. Also, organizations such as the Peace Corps and the B.V.S. pay their volunteers roughly three times what a Kenyan gets to do the same job, such as teaching. This separates the organization’s volunteers from the community. It allows them to bring their old lifestyles with them, and they are less likely to respect the native culture. Davidson students, on the other hand, leave the West behind when they step into Kenya, and Mr. Maleche says they seem to like it that way. They earn about $30 a month and usually live with a Kenyan family. Living is cheap, and the salary is adequate but won’t cover a lot of traveling or even a lot of beer, according to Mike McGrady. Mr. Maleche says Davidson students seem to come with a genuine sensitivity to the local culture and the desire to learn about it and not to change it or be above it.

Malnutrition ranks second behind malaria as the reason for the line that coils around Dina Maleche’s medical clinic. Can it be that teaching physics as Mike McGrady did or English Literature as Cathy Ansheles did really addresses Kenya’s problem? Mr. Maleche draws a direct correlation between malnutrition and illiteracy, particularly among women. He explains that Kenya has rich land and that a balanced diet is within the reach of most families, but most mothers do not know what a balanced diet is, and they can’t read. Women are traditionally second-class citizens in Kenya and have had little access to education. Mr. Maleche says that the poor place of women in Kenyan society is “our disease,” a disease which now haunts Kenya in the gaunt form of malnourished children. A teacher from America eases this problem by increasing the general level of education and literacy.

Also, most of the arable land in Kenya is now in use. A young Kenyan cannot expect to inherit part of his father’s farm now because plots are already so small as to barely support a family. This generation of Kenya’s young must find a job and be a part of Kenya’s new industrial development. To get a job, education, particularly in the sciences, is required. Davidson graduates can help provide this kind of education. Kenya’s problems are great, as is the challenge to face them, which Mr. Maleche has left us. Since Jeremiah Maleche began his own education with a stick to mark in the dirt and a native teacher, he has met the challenge of Kenyan life. And since Kenya became independent of Britain in 1963, he has seen the number of schools increase by a factor of three and students like those that come from Davidson become an influence throughout western Kenya. Mr. Maleche is “very optimistic” about what is to come. He adds, “You can hardly forget where a Davidson student has been.”

Information on teaching in Kenya is available in the Careers Office or through writing directly to someone now teaching in Kenya.

by Frazier Worth

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 22 January 1982

BARBER FOR MEN AND WOMEN
YOU NAME IT — WE'LL STYLE IT
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP