El-Salvador NOT Just Another Vietnam

“Lest there be some misunderstanding, there are no plans to send American combat troops into action any place in the world.” So claimed an uneasy President Reagan at a particularly nasty press conference last month. The subject was, of course, Administration policy on the situation in El Salvador.

The Administration has determined to send military assistance (estimated at more than $81 million) and economic aid ($104.5 million) to the Salvadoran government, and to request additional military and economic aid in the coming years. Many Americans question the prudence of increasing our involvement with — as well as whether we should lend military assistance to — an allegedly repressive regime.

Recent polls by Newsweek magazine (and her overbearing mother, The Washington Post) indicate distrust and doubt on the U.S. role in the strife-torn Latin American country. Beyond these reactions, Administration officials see a widespread misunderstanding on this situation.

It seems striking the extent to which El Salvador as “another Vietnam” (a weak and disappointing simplification) has gripped the minds of people in this country. This fixation has expressed itself in widespread coverage by the American press, a modest number of demonstrations, and the peculiar (and likely ignorant?) support of the rebel forces by such groups as Hollywood celebrities and the National Council of Churches (a ghastly way to spread the Word of Christ).

The Administration is convinced that a number of serious misconceptions exist with respect to the present situation in El Salvador. While many claim that President Duarte’s government is a rightist dictatorship, evidence shows it to be a moderate government dedicated to a massive program of land reform and to dealing with the economic and social problems that have hounded the people of El Salvador. One should note that the current government is under attack from both the right and the left.

Another disturbing misconception is that the leftist guerillas are agrarian and social reformers who enjoy the support of the majority of the people. Administration officials — and even the retired Jimmy Carter — are convinced to the contrary. They believe that if the guerilla forces are successful in bringing down the current government, they will not share power even with those in their country who support them. The result would be a “typical Marxist type dictatorship.” Clearly, if that happens, the human rights situation would not improve.

Current evidence makes it obvious that the leftist guerillas have been far from pristine in their conduct, and officials of the Organization of American States are convinced that they have killed innocent people. These terrorists are receiving arms and support from Cuba and Nicaragua, and it is quite likely that they are enjoying the quiet economic support from a variety of Marxist countries. Certainly, if the guerillas are successful, we will have accomplished no more than the replacement of a relatively moderate, pro-U.S. government for a repressive regime that is actively hostile to her neighbors and the United States and would be decidedly undependable.

Some say that the U.S. should not involve itself in the affairs of another country and that we should be exceedingly hesitant to meddle in a touchy international scene. First, it is unlikely that the situation in El Salvador is strictly an “internal affair;” guerilla forces are being trained and supplied from outside their country. Additionally, the American relationship with Israel would seem to contradict such an attitude. It is unreasonable to maintain that the U.S. should withdraw assistance from El Salvador. And should the situation deteriorate, our President should be prepared to respond with increased American involvement.

El Salvador is — for the present at least — an international tragedy and certainly a situation for which the U.S. should have special concern. Our President is determined to help stabilize the situation and improve the lives of those people. Administration officials are convinced that Duarte’s government is in the best interest of the people of El Salvador — as well as the United States.

International assistance to foreign governments is inescapably important. In this case, turning our backs on El Salvador would be detrimental to both that country and this one. The judgment of the American leadership is that we should continue to lend assistance to the most moderate option: the current national government of El Salvador.

by John Benedict ‘84

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELORS
For Orange Presbytery Camps (Presbyterian Point and Camp New Hope)
- $100 per week (May 21 - July 31)
- For application, write G. Wilson Gunn, Orange Presbytery Camps, PO Box 2874, Durham, NC 27705, or call 682-5558 during office hours. Also see the placement office at your school.

SALEM COLLEGE SUMMER SCHOOL COURSES
June 28 - July 29

Applications are now being taken for a complete schedule. Write or call:
Director of Summer School, Salem College, Winston-Salem, NC 27108; phone (919) 722-2631.