Editorial

“Coming out of the closet is risky. But it is also liberating. Closets, dark and snug, are comfortable, but not
exactly desirable as living quarters.

Davidson has some closed closets that need to be opened. One is the views and needs of black students.”
- Elizabeth Kiss (Davidsonian Editorial, Feb. 13, 1981)

Last year was a valuable year for bringing racial problems at Davidson “out of the closet.” Racial grievances which had
existed for years were finally openly debated. For the first time, black students held a “Black Perspectives” forum to express
their goals and problems with the college community.

Discussion of racial issues was highlighted with a visit from Dr. Charles King, President of the Urban Crisis Center in
Atlanta. In his seminars, Dr. King forced both blacks and whites to express their feelings on racism openly and in
front of their peers. John Krotcho described the talks like this, “Tears, adamant defensiveness, anger, and brilliant displays of courage
punctuated the afternoon as valiant souls took him on one-on-one. But he was clever and persisted in uncovering defense mechanisms,
misconceptions, and prejudices.” A lot came out of these talks; not only were general attitudes about racism discussed, but specific
goals for the college were outlined. Black role models, minority recruiting, observance of Martin Luther King Jr. Day, no KA
Old South weekend, and active interaction between blacks and whites were among the most important goals.

Many of these specific goals were realized this year. Julian Bond arrived as the first annual Martin Luther King Jr.
speaker, financed through Dr. Spencer and the Speakers Committee. Early in the year, the KA’s decided against an Old South
weekend. Jimmy Williams became the first black admissions officer and active minority recruitment began.

The biggest move towards racial integration occurred last Monday. Dr. Spencer’s decision to give the BSC a house on Patterson
Court, the hub of Davidson’s social life, marks something of a “coming of age” for blacks on the Davidson campus.
For the first time, there is a place to both discuss racial problems and encourage interaction between blacks and whites.
Considering the slow, plodding way in which changes at Davidson usually occur, this much progress in one year is commendable.
The college community has finally realized that ignoring issues doesn’t make them go away.

Of course, these moves are not an instant remedy to racism. Far from it. Curing hard-set prejudices and attitudes just
doesn’t happen with a new Patterson Court house or a guest speaker. As this week’s opinions article by Pete Skillern
points out, serious racial problems still abound. Coming out of the closet isn’t exactly like living in a house.

There is still a need for black professors, continuing discussion of racial problems in Davidson and environs, and campus support
of the new BSC house. These are not just black concerns but universal concerns. As a college, Davidson should strive
for social equality within and without its boundary.

After an hour of intimidating his audiences last year, Dr. King said, “You just look, sulk, get angry and after
a while... you just don’t give a damn anymore. We get outside of this room just what you got inside
this room.”

Although it’s just a start, racial problems at Davidson now have a base for moving out of the closet and
into the living room.

Look, Moefy, A Font For Us

OK, so you thought you had seen a lot of fonts. And you have. You’ve seen our Palatino (bold and
italic), you’ve seen our Univers, and our Times.

Now check out our brand new Bookman font, procured through the purchase of a particular G.E. auto bulb from the
Exxon station which sent our old headline machine rumbling into production.

If you like our fonts, tell us. We’d be tickled to hear from you.

Vignette

Shocking as it may seem to most Davidsonian readers, not every word ever pronounced finds its way between the covers
of this paper. Often the competition between words becomes violent, cutthroat warfare, as all words wax bullish when a prestigious
place in a Davidsonian article, poem, or letter is at stake. To be point-blank, some words flatly miss the boat.

Sometimes we editors have to split hairs. Sometimes it takes days, sometimes weeks for us to cease poking around in
the panoply of phones just panting to be printed, but eventually (to pacify the public) we must pick.

This being the final Davidsonian of the school year, we thought it proper (as some words have gotten into a
huff) to release, for the first time only, an array of these words that have never before had the honor
of being read by all of you; protuberant words that, although they didn’t quite cut the mustard, still shoved some
peculiar pomposity or whoosh.

So here goes. Hope they pop your lips:

Palimpsest. Picayune. Pitapat. Piebald. Pickwickian. Parvenu. Pip. Pablum. Panchromatic. Panegyrize. Pangolin. Papaveraceous. Pawpaw. Pachyderm. Paean.

Paragraph.

Papoose. Paregoric. Parthenogenesis. Pellucid. Penumbra. Peripatetic. Phagocyte. Pipit. Pincheck. Piffle. Picaresque. Phrenology. Phlegm. Pettifogging.

Pyrethrum. Ptarmigan. Pshaw. Pseudocellulite. Profligate. Pratfall.

Poltergeist. Poop.

Pleased?

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 7 May 1982
