Stray Cats:
Built for Speed

Among the Teddy Boy bands that have gained popularity in the last few years, the Stray Cats have undoubtedly gained
the most recognition both in England and the U.S.A. With two albums having been released in the UK, the group
has at last released an LP in this country. Built for Speed is a compilation of songs from the two
import records and it has garnered some good press for the group, including an appearance on American Bandstand a few
weeks ago. Since the Stray Cats are beginning to crack the notoriously tight playlists of American FM stations, it seems
promising to review this British rockabilly band this first week in the record review section.

Ray Charles once said something to the effect that the only good topics for songwriting are having fun, driving around,
someone talking too much, or a woman doing someone wrong. The Stray Cats seem to have taken Brother Ray’s words
to heart. The first side of the LP deals with having fun in “Rock This Town” and “Stray Cat Strut,”
hot rods in “Built for Speed” and “Rev It Up & Go,” and a London airhead named “Little Miss Prissy.”
The closest the Stray Cats get to a topical statement is glorifying beach fights between Teds and Skinheads in “Rumble
in Brighton,” which resembles the theme in Quadrophenia but with different contestants. Side two includes a sleazy fifties-style ballad, “Lonely
Summer Nights,” and a stereotypically misogynistic remake of Eddie Cochran’s “Jeannie, Jeannie, Jeannie.” All the songs are proficiently executed, but
there are problems.

The element that made the original rockabilly of Jerry Lee Lewis, Eddie Cochran, Gene Vincent, Buddy Holly, and others so
special is that elusive quality known as soul for lack of a better word. The point was not that you
were able to twang your guitar or slap your bass a certain way, but that you were tasting the first
freedoms of adulthood while still retaining the exuberance and recklessness of adolescence. While Elvis and the Killer may have shocked
the bourgeoisie in their day, that was not their prime objective. The Stray Cats at times seem to be living
a pose, as if all you have to do is get dressed up, greased down, and tattooed over like a
working-class greasy Gene Vincent in order to be a rockabilly star. In any case, the Stray Cats seem a bit
hollow at times; as a rule, however, the Stray Cats are about as good a rockabilly act as you’re likely
to hear.

The LP itself exhibits high production value, with several of the songs produced by Dave Edmunds of Rockpile. The trio
comes across well, especially lead singer and guitarist Brian Setzer, who evokes Eddie Cochran as effectively as anyone else I’ve
heard. He hits just the right tone between cynicism and naiveté. If you are a fan of rockabilly revival bands,
I would recommend that you get this album. If you just like rock and roll in general, however, I think
you'd be better off spending your money on a good Jerry Lee Lewis or Eddie Cochran record. Built for Speed
is a good album, but the Stray Cats don’t transcend their genre enough to really achieve their potential.

---

The 12-lecture course on tape

FOUNDERS OF WESTERN PHILOSOPHY:
THALES TO HUME
BY DR. LEONARD PEIKOFF
author of THE OMINOUS PARALLELS and lecturer on OBJECTIVISM,
the philosophy of AYN RAND
THE FOUNTAINHEAD, ATLAS SHRUGGED

Cost: $85.00

For details contact Bob Klein

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN / September 24, 1982
