Reappointments and Tenure

The Faculty voted Tuesday to take the first step toward the formation of a faculty advisory committee on reappointments and tenure.

The motion by the Faculty Affairs Committee to amend the Faculty bylaws calls for a five-member Advisory Committee on Reappointments and Tenure of tenured professors, elected by the faculty and serving staggered three-year terms.

The Committee will review all reappointment and tenure cases, meet with Dr. Zimmerman, and make a recommendation to be included with Dr. Zimmerman’s report to President Spencer.

In cases of disagreement, the President will include the recommendation in his report to the Trustees, who have the final decision. If the Trustees' decision is at variance with that of the committee, the President must state his specific reasons.

A similar motion was brought before the faculty three years ago but was defeated. In regard to the problem of faculty responsibility, Dr. Epes said, "making a decision that will ultimately affect the faculty is a significant responsibility."

He said the Committee will consider opinions from the individual departments, the Dean of Academic Affairs, and students in making their evaluation.

Another concern three years ago was that the faculty opinion would not have much bearing on the President’s final decision. However, Dr. Zimmerman pointed out that this proposal involves the formation of an official faculty-elected advisory committee on both tenure and reappointment that has the support of President Spencer. “It stands to reason,” he said, “that he (President Spencer) will take seriously an elected faculty committee which has his support.”

Dr. Zimmerman said that the present process for faculty evaluation set forth in the Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedure will not be changed except to allow for the recommendation of the Advisory Committee. The present process involves the faculty members of the appropriate department in question making a written recommendation to Dr. Zimmerman, who then makes his recommendation to President Spencer, according to Dr. Zimmerman.

by Jeff Holland ‘84

The SGA Athletic Committee sent a letter to College President Sam Spencer last Wednesday recommending that the College resume the search for an Athletic Director. According to the letter, it would be “best for the reputation of the college if the administration reopened applications for the job, since they had promised to do so at the beginning of the school year.” Dr. Spencer declined to comment on the letter until after a policy meeting with the Board of Trustees at the end of this month.

President Spencer appointed head football coach Edward Farrell as acting A.D. on 15 July 1981 after health problems forced his predecessor, Gene Bingham, to leave the job. Less than a year before, Bingham had replaced Tom Cartmill upon his retirement. After Bingham resigned, the college needed someone to take over the position but did not have the time to conduct an extensive search. “We were definitely looking for some continuity in the Athletic Department,” said Dr. Spencer.

Coach Farrell has established stability in the athletic department. “The place is running as smoothly as it has since the ten years I’ve been here,” said Tennis Coach Jeff Frank. Farrell’s adaptive and organizational abilities have greatly impressed Frank. “Everyone has respect for him [Coach Farrell] because he’s so organized. If Jesus Christ took over the job, it would take Him two years to learn.”

Head basketball coach Bobby Hussey also praises Farrell: “He [Coach Farrell] has done an excellent job of developing a strong rapport within the department. He has shown the coaches that he is concerned about their needs and has helped them develop their programs.”

His most important decision so far has been the hiring of a new baseball coach, but Farrell has also taken steps to unify the Athletic Department. Since taking over the position, he has delegated much of his responsibility to other coaches. Jeff Frank has been helping with non-revenue sports. Women’s basketball coach Pat Miller is overseeing women’s athletics, and baseball Coach George Greer has taken over some administrative duties. Frank likes the new arrangement: “I think it’s a good situation. I do all the groundwork.”

Continued on page 15