In many ways, their criticisms are typical of the political attitudes of the people—ranging from a kind of fatalism about
their situation and a vague hope that Israel will “come to its senses,” to a romantic faith in “the irreversibility
of progress and national liberation,” and a feeling that “the situation in the Arab world is such that it encourages
a political initiative in the West.”

“It’s true,” the professional said, “that the Palestinians could be more sophisticated and more politically agile. It’s the same pattern
of negativism that existed in 1948 when we lost what we had then. I don’t believe the Arabs and the
PLO are ready to move, and that is unfortunate.

“The Arabs will continue to say no, no, no—unfortunate as that is. The Israelis certainly have the administrative capability of
succeeding in their plans of de facto annexation, but I doubt they can stand the cost in human terms.

“Israel is now calling the tune, but the development of the term, or attitude, of tsumud (“steadfastness”) is very clever
and very widespread; people are increasingly resilient. Israel can succeed through all sorts of clever administrative measures in taking the
land, but never the people. So, in the long run, I am confident that the system is doomed to failure.

“Israelis will either grow tired of the situation or they will have to come to terms with a different and
far more unpleasant self-image.”

The student, fresh from Bir Zeit University, spends his time doing social work in the villages in the Ramallah district.
A villager himself, he is proud but nevertheless fettered by the slogans of Third World ideology.

A Letter From Israel

It is irrelevant, he argued, if a transitional period of autonomy eventually leads to statehood because “that is not a
nationalist solution” and would temporarily bypass the PLO.

The personal characteristics, and perhaps even the failings, of the mayors and other “national leaders” are also unimportant “because the
masses are behind them,” and whoever is with the masses is “objectively right.”

He fears that the pro-Jordanian interests in the West Bank are indeed ready to replace the pro-PLO mayors whom the
Israeli administration has removed.

There are many who agree with this, admitting that the mayors and the pro-PLO councils, while enjoying widespread popular support
particularly among the young, still had powerful opponents. They now expect the civil administration to make do with the dismissal
of Wahid Hamdala, mayor of Anabta and a close associate of Bassam Shak’a. He is currently facing several charges before
a military court.

“If they are clever, they will let things settle now and not provoke reactions. After a few months all sorts
of people will begin to show themselves and they will not have to count only on the village leagues, which
have no real future.”

The businessman: “I don’t believe that it is so easy to get rid of the PLO. They have money, power,
people—but it is impossible to say how long they will be able to hold on. Offering people money to oppose
them, however, is not enough.

“The situation in the Arab world is such that it encourages a political initiative on the West Bank. People are
saying that Israel exchanged Sinai for the West Bank and the Bek’a Valley in Lebanon for the Golan Heights. We
are being sold out. The Arab states are preoccupied with the Bab al-Sharkia (the “eastern gate” of the Arab world),”
he said, referring to the Iraq-Iran war.

The accelerated pace of settlements, the planned zoning laws that threaten to carve up the West Bank—“all this is forcing
people to think that something must be done quickly.”

There are those in the West Bank who are willing to go ahead, but only on the basis of an
understanding from Israel that it is willing to discuss three issues:
- The right of self-determination;
- East Jerusalem;
- A freeze on settlements and land expropriation.

The issues should be discussed and agreed on in advance and in secret so that people can be free of
unnecessary pressure. Israel should prepare things so that if and when it declares a willingness to include these three issues
on the agenda for discussions, there will be sufficient and organized opinion on the West Bank prepared to enter these
discussions.

“I believe that the PLO—or at least large sections of it—would not oppose this kind of initiative. If the PLO
does not come around, they will lose the people of the West Bank,” said the businessman.

“But there is no point in creating an ‘alternate leadership’ worth speaking of unless it is offered something substantial.”

Israel still has some way to go before the leaders whom Sharon and Milson insist are to be found can
be drawn into the open.

Jerusalem, Israel April 3, 1982

BRAIDING, COLORING, PERMING AND PRECISION CUTTING

Call for appointment 892-1533

MAIN ST. CORNELIUS

SMITH’S FLOWERS

302 Smith Circle Cornelius, ph. 892-8856

BARBER FOR MEN AND WOMEN - YOU NAME IT — WE'LL STYLE IT

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

MAIN STREET

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 April 1982
