Unfair Rating of Davidson College in the Selective Guide to Colleges

It is commonly acknowledged that Davidson College is the toughest and best institution for undergraduate studies in the southern part of the United States. Davidson College is a combination of a strong teaching faculty, 90 percent of which are Ph.D. holders, an outstanding student body, 85 percent of which come from the top fifth of their high school classes, and a rigorous academic program which can be compared to the Top Ten Universities in the United States. Admission to Davidson is not only an attraction but also a cutthroat competition to the applicants, who must show high scores on SAT and Achievement Tests and fill out layers of application and recommendation forms which are even more complicated than those of Harvard University.

Academically strong as it is, Davidson College fails to get the highest rating in the Selective Guide to Colleges. On the whole, the rating is unfair because the editor of the book overrates public schools, those universities whose graduate schools are academically known but not undergraduate ones, lacks consideration of the outcome of education of colleges—the percentage of graduates who go to graduate or professional schools—and bears prejudice against southern colleges. Being a private and undergraduate institution situated in the deep south, Davidson College is the victim of the unfair rating.

The increased choice of colleges poses problems. How does a student sort out the hype from the substance in the mountains of four-color brochures with happy couples strolling hand in hand by waterfalls? What is the difference between Harvard University and Princeton University, North Carolina University at Chapel Hill and Duke University? To solve these problems, the New York Times singled out 265 of the best and most interesting four-year institutions throughout the United States and wrote an essay on each of them based on information from questionnaires, including telephone calls, essays by student newspaper editors, articles and secondary research, and campus visits. The colleges are rated from one to five stars in academics, social life, and quality of life. It is fortunate for Davidson to have received three stars for social life and four stars for quality of life but unfortunate to have received only four stars for academics.

The New York Times overrates public schools and underrates private ones. Public schools like the University of Texas-Austin and North Carolina University at Chapel Hill are offered five stars for academics though they are not as good as their private counterparts in the South. Small wonder that only 23 private schools received five stars throughout the United States. The book Selective Guide to Colleges says: “Although the same basic criteria have been applied to all institutions, an effort has been made to sharpen the academic distinctions between institutions within public and private sectors. Thus, a few of the outstanding public universities—those with ratings of four or five—might have received slightly lower ratings if they are compared with their leading private counterparts.” For instance, the University of Texas-Austin, which is perhaps well-known for its low educational cost but not for its academics for undergraduate studies, is rated even higher than Duke University. Which is better? The rate of enrollment provides the answer. Each year only 1,600 out of 8,100 applicants are enrolled by Duke University, but 5,800 out of 12,900 applicants are enrolled by the University of Texas-Austin. The striking contrast in the rate of enrollment between the two universities reveals that private schools like Duke are disfavored in the rating.The same is true of Davidson College, which has competitive enrollment but is unfairly rated. Many Texans would rather go to Duke and Davidson than to Texas-Austin, although Duke and Davidson are more expensive than Texas-Austin. The New York Times gives favorable treatment to the University of Texas-Austin only because it is a public school. The rating is not based on the quality of undergraduate studies but on graduate studies. The purpose of the Selective Guide to Colleges is to help high school graduates select colleges, and the emphasis should be put on the undergraduate colleges, not graduate schools.

It is disheartening that Davidson College is rated under North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Certain research departments and research facilities at NC, which are nationally known, do not represent that the undergraduate education at NC is good. Owing to the overwhelming student body there, the size of classes is relatively unlimited, and the contact between professors and students is relatively limited. Besides, many professors are engaged in research of some kind and are sometimes substituted by graduate students in conducting classes and seminars. The chancellor at NC reports: “In hiring new faculty, the edge is given to evidence of research capability.” The undergraduate students notice an emphasis on research and graduate students at the expense of themselves. That is why many southern applicants prefer Davidson to NC. It is agreed that most of Davidson students could have been accepted by NC if they had applied according to their qualifications. Actually, some Davidson students did apply and were offered admission and inviting scholarships by NC before they came to Davidson. But they turned down the offer and came to what they thought was the best institution for undergraduate studies — Davidson College. However, the evaluation of undergraduate colleges in the Selective Guide to Colleges is affected by the reputation of graduate schools, which Davidson does not have.

The comparison of the outcome of education in colleges is an important factor in the academic program, which the New York Times fails to include. It is amazing that 75 percent of Davidson graduates go to professional schools. No wonder that Davidson ranks fifth among liberal arts colleges in the number of Rhodes Scholarships, first among colleges in the Southeast in students receiving Woodrow Wilson Fellowships and Marshall Scholarships, and high nationally in Danforth, Thomas J. Watson, Rockefeller, and other awards. However, there are many more than five liberal arts colleges in the North which received five stars in academics in the Selective Guide to Colleges. This not only reflects The New York Times’ inconsideration of the outcome of education at Davidson but also the northerner’s prejudice. It is not surprising that no private school below the Mason-Dixon line rated above four stars. So if Davidson College wants to be rated higher, it should become a public school, establish a graduate school, and move to the North. Otherwise, it may receive the same unfair treatment in rating next year.

Yu Chienwen ‘85
(Chienwen is an international student from the People’s Republic of China)

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 2 April 1982