Booze Brothers

Homecoming: a time for inspired travels

Homecoming is the spirit the Booze Brothers live for. No doubt there were party adventures on Patterson Court and in Charlotte that we missed, but every choice negates an infinite number of alternatives. We all have to live with it. So Saturday evening, the B.B. took advantage of a special mood by exploring our own campus backyard. It was a mood turned perspective that happily presented the mundane as extraordinary. You see, as it is with Homecoming, we unsuspectingly ran across a friend we hadn’t seen in a while. This is an individual who often startles the most liberal of thinkers with interpretations beyond expectation. She shared with us her freedom of thought, free of “givens” and “of courses.” Attentively, our minds were on something else.

Walking back into town on Main St., we skipped through the cemetery monuments that those who, having had theirs, have left to encourage we, who are getting ours.

In town, a block or so down Depot St., we took a moment, or was it an hour, to sit on the curb and agree that rhythm is a human quality worthy of personal development by virtue of its universality.

But some poor liquid loser was already puking his guts out in the curb by the Depot St. Public Parking lot. Very distracting! We moved on with purposeless determination by DCPC’s front doors from behind which we sensed a “happening.” Right through the doors we soared into a pipe-organ rendition of our souls. If there is a Phantom in Notre Dame lurking for the opportunity to seize emotion out of the throats of the unsuspecting, he hasn’t got anything on the cat that blew the pipe riffs that night in DCPC. We hope to do this, in particular, again. But there is only so much melody manipulation our psyches can stand, and so we go.

Twice as intent and half as decisive; out, along, up, by, through, and past until, exhausted by the meaning of it all, we entered Hobart Park.

In the hollow, on a bench, you can “see” the turf undercover by the sounds that shimmer on the light shafts webbing amongst the leaves and branches. The small creek by which someone splashes, the shrill murmurs of whiskered night play. All incandesced within the cricket green chirps of consistent dark. Here the light vibrates on the wind while the fauna is still.

Oh yeah, but we’re on the move, in a groove. Down the blinding yellow-orange strobe-light lined dance-floor runway, we pause to appreciate that the entire college is having a party for our fun. A practice field bay is teasing for the ripples of our violating its tranquility. A moment to enjoy it as a whole serves to excite us about the plunge. The prairie-meadow peels off our shoes and sucks our toes. Intricate bleacher sculptures of dark horizontal and perpendicular lines sweep left as shoulder-level headlights of passing cars pulsate across. A clump of trees between us and a street light broadcasts pipes of light. Air avenues designed for brass concertos.

The 3-tier grass garden settles us down to the soccer field where balls laced into nets hang about clothesline supports for play. The grace of the soccer ball—planets as they swoop, rise, dip, and fly on undetermined paths of orbit.

And again, the garden tilts downward to the gladiatorial arena. Here at the Bottom, where irrigation settles and little breeze brings less light, we are obliged to our gardener host to likewise settle our waters. Turning, we face a broad, dark, arduous bank crowned in a narrow halo by some distant light. The ridge is staged with silhouette images of scoreboard and flanking tables. The scene cannot be mistaken. It is the haven of Terror Himself. We waited in anticipation of His quality. Cloaked as a void, He would appear standing before the backlight. He will not speak nor move suddenly but scream with audacity. We wait in the smear of light that passes around his image for His will to extend arm aside and, bringing it forward, wipe us away in the shadow that His cloak sleeve mows across our field and selves. But, no show. No shadow. And no screams. So best we can do is march up to his summit to see.

We are becoming, it would seem, closer to the heart of Saturday night as we discovered a deficiency. We wanted tunes, jams, Man, audio of the high decibel variety. There was but one direction the B.B. could trust to turn toward. And so, not ending, but only submerging, our Spirit of Homecoming took us by the hand and landed us safely on the Duke Terrace of Billy Mac where musical sound is found and no one is turned away. As for our friend, we never even got a chance to thank her.

We’ve Found HIS,
Um... HEAD, LT.

Lop! ‘Ve BEEN
A cop FIFTEEN YEARS
AND I'VE NEVER
SEEN ANYTHING LIKE
THIS, OH, I'VE SEEN
OTHER STRANGE, BUT
I'M SO... GASSY,

I KNOW. He's ...7

AS A FRIEND. HIS
SON, ADAM, WALKED
UP WITH IT,

QUEST’S END...

HEY, LT. THE KID'S
BEST FRIEND WANTS IT

HOW'S THE KID
HOLDING UP?

SHOULD HE
BE HOLDING UP?

Good Point.

oo) Skate CS

14

THE DAVIDSONIAN/15 October 1982