Sure, here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Slow Mail From: <enya

Christmas in Kenya comes in the middle of the dry season. The days are brilliant and burning in dazzling sunlight. To travel anywhere means to be covered in dust, as each footfall sends up small puffs of dirt on trousers and legs and the shirts and heads of those who follow. As the rains stop, children know that Christmas is coming when the Maykuyi or “Sleep-in-on-tree” birds pass on their annual migration around Thanksgiving time. It is a spectacular event when these birds swarm, circling higher and higher above the valleys to allow all their thousands to regroup—and then they head off together again to the southeast. At night their noise is quite impressive as they all attempt to live up to their name.

Schools dismiss at the end of November, and then all the church children’s choirs begin preparing for the holidays. At home it is time to smear the outside of the mud houses on the family compound and perhaps rethatch the roofs in a decorative pattern. People search the riverbanks and hills for colored clays to mix with cow dung and water and then “fingerpaint” on the outside of the house in geometric or floral patterns. Sometimes they write greetings like “Merry Christmas” or “Welcome” on the walls. The floors are also smeared with cow dung and then decorated by sweeping them in arching patterns with branches when the floor is still wet.

In the week before Christmas, the family begins to gather at their tribal home farm. In earlier times and in some more traditional areas, the entire clan gathers together, but whether immediate family or clan, each new arrival from a town or school is greeted with drums and dancing. Young people also hold their own dances and parties in the weeks surrounding Christmas.

The day of December 24 is considered “Children’s Christmas” when all those under 18 meet at church for games and sweets and sometimes to exchange small presents. In wealthy families it means new clothes for the children, but for most it is a time simply to celebrate with friends. At sundown the drumming begins and continues until dawn to welcome the Christ child. At midnight Christians gather at church to sing all through the night and listen to the choir. The next day is a time for family and friends to gather at home.

Christmas is a joyous holiday in Kenya with emphasis on family and religion. The main events are church and Christmas dinner. The special Christmas treats include bread (a luxury for most), rice and sometimes sodas. For the main meal one of the family hens (though in big or wealthy families a sheep or goat) might be slaughtered. It is for many one of the few occasions during the year when they eat meat. Milk is also important for Christmas, and the government makes extra efforts to distribute enough on the holidays, sometimes resulting in shortages before or afterwards.

In the face of such a simple celebration, it is difficult to explain American traditions when asked, “What do your people do at Christmas?” Santa, Rudolph, trees inside, parades, concerts, TV specials, shopping, cards, foods, snow—are all somewhat beyond comprehension in this place. I usually say that we do about the same things—decorate houses, go to church, the family comes home, we sing traditional songs and eat a big meal together, but we also give each other gifts. The sheer length and scale of an American holiday season, however, and the disproportionate way we “do about the same things” is hard to get across, or even to want to get across.

The Christmas frenzy in the US is easy to criticize and difficult to ignore, but also, I think, does nothing to enhance the meaning or enjoyment of the day. In all the rush and confusion, most Americans are still waiting for that moment when they start to feel “the Christmas spirit,” whether religious or not. The amazing thing is that the feeling of Christmas—the anticipation, the joy, the sharing and the celebration—is the same here. The Swahili and Luhya “carols” and dances done in a mud and thatch church bring the same thrill and glow as “The Messiah” and “Silent Night.” Slices of bread are as special as Christmas cookies, fruitcake and eggnog, and chicken as turkey or ham. A child opening a new pen or soda is as excited as the one with the new bicycle or the latest electronic game. The Christ child is born not only in the lights of McAdenville or the chancel of DCPC, but also in the mud huts and full hearts of a Kenyan Christmas.

Merry Christmas from Shelly Ballantine, Chris Elwood, Elaine English, Gin Evans, Hughes Evans, Andy Miller, Chris Moore, Grace Morgan, Rick Morgan, Vince Parker, Sally Summey and Bill Wilson.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 22 January 1982