A whole year of news

In case you’ve missed out on this year’s big news stories, this non-newsy article should fill you in. We have
not been able to cover all of the stories, so please excuse the briefness of this report. The following is
the Davidsonian’s summary of the ten most important news stories of the 1981-82 school year.

Federal Student Aid Cuts
With over 40% of the student body currently receiving student aid, President Reagan’s proposed student aid budget cuts would not
only shake up but certainly alter Davidson College life. Davidson would need an extra $240,000 in institutional funds in FY
1981-82 and $600,000 in FY 1983-84 to compensate for the budget cuts, according to Associate Director of Financial Aid Kathleen
Stevenson. These financial aid reductions would force many students to find additional resources or even leave campus altogether. In the
long run, students like freshman Warren Gould fear, the cuts will “make the private colleges the way they were twenty
years ago, for the affluent only.”

The Commons/Patterson Court
The Commons, a 3.3 million dollar dining complex, has brought freshmen out of a dingy, dull, and disgusting dump called
Slater into an ordered, streamlined, convenient cafeteria. It has also allowed the administration to entertain guests and important-looking officials in
an official-looking place. Some worry that the Commons may be “too good.” Concerned Patterson Courters note that over 575 students
will eat at the Commons next year, including almost 200 upperclassmen, and that the competition may force some of the
unstable units housed out of business.

But Patterson Court has expanded despite the Commons. President Spencer has granted both Warner Hall, a women’s eating club, and
the Black Student Coalition, a student organization, permission to use the abandoned Richards and Bailey eating houses next year. Other
eating houses have just managed to stay afloat this year. Business manager Bob Currie’s tightening of financial restrictions and membership
requirements almost forced ATO and Phi Delta Theta to close. The Commons and the Court have also experimented with co-operative
food buying. This spring, five eating houses signed an exclusive contract with the Commons to purchase Sealtest Dairy Products. If
it succeeds, the program may expand to other areas of food purchasing, according to Food Service Director Carlton Pritchard.

But beneath these financial issues loomed the ever-growing, ominous dilemma over self-selection. According to a poll taken by Dr. Thomas
Kazee’s Public Opinion class, over half the students feel that a fraternity bid system would function better. So far, the
controversy has amounted to a lot of talk and little action.

Noise Ordinance
In response to a petition submitted by thirty irate residents after a loud band party at the SPE house last
fall, the town of Davidson is now planning to adopt a noise ordinance. Whether or not the ordinance would curtail
parties or further restrict the College’s limited social life remains to be seen.

Honor Code
Last fall, then Davidson editor John Simon published an open letter to the Student Conduct Council calling for an “open
record” in Honor Code and Code of Responsibility cases. Some feel that open trials and increased student involvement would make
the system more fair and also act as a deterrent.

Computer Center
The new computer center has been one of Davidson’s most profitable multi-million dollar investments. Students have used the thirty-two brand
new terminals in Chemistry, Mathematics, Economics, and Statistics classes, and the college plans to offer non-credit introductory computer courses next
fall. The computers will allow...Davidson to provide a BASIC education that is becoming essential to succeeding in our technology-dependent society.

Defeat of Faculty Tenure Committee
Once again the faculty defeated a proposal for a Faculty Advisory Committee on Reappointments and Tenure. A similar proposal was
defeated three years ago. The proposed committee would have made a recommendation that was to be included in the Academic
Vice-President’s report to the President, and, in the case of tenure decisions, in the President’s report to the Trustees. The
resistance is unusual in national terms. According to Academic Vice-President T. C. Price Zimmermann, such committees exist at most colleges
like Davidson. Views vary on the unpopularity of the Committee, but Philosophy professor Lance Stell feels the faculty simply have
“a deep-seated suspicion of each other’s ability to be confidential, serious, and professional on such a committee.”

Defeat of the New Grading Proposals
In an attempt to find a method of making finer distinctions in grading, the Educational Policies Committee reviewed several alternate
grading scales this spring. The committee first considered adding pluses and minuses to the current scale, but withdrew the proposal
in response to student objections. Psychology Professor John Kelton then suggested a system that would rate students on a 0.0
to 4.0 scale. The proposal gained widespread support among the EPC, but the students still rejected it. The faculty decided
last week to leave the current system alone. Besides increasing student grade anxiety for a few weeks, the EPC proposals
did not change anything. One wonders if some psychology professor dreamed up this scheme to test our reactions.

Student Activism
Taking into account the decrease in student political activity over the last decade, one would expect Davidson College, a traditionally
conservative institution, to be lost in a moat of political apathy. But such was not the case this year, as
literally hundreds of students latched on to one political issue or another. The Davidson Coalition on El Salvador showed films,
held debates, sponsored teach-ins, entertained discussions, and sent over thirty demonstrators to Washington to protest US military intervention in El
Salvador. Other political organizations included Rev’d Charlie Chaplains Disarmament Study Group, which sponsored Ground Zero Week, Professor Pat Edmonson’s World
Hunger Group, and a devoted anti-nerve gas coalition. Davidson’s Crop Walk also raised over one thousand dollars for world hunger.
Whether this increased student activism represents a general campus mood, or just the efforts of a few, remains to be
seen.

The Basketball Team
1981-82 was supposed to be a “rebuilding” year for Davidson’s basketball team. With a new coach, few recruits, little experience,
and a recent losing tradition, who could expect much from the Wildcats? But lo and behold, the cats got it
together. Davidson pulled off impressive wins over South Carolina, Duke, and Marshall and improved during the regular season. The Wildcats
finished third in the Southern Conference and advanced to the conference tournament finals before losing to NCAA tournament-bound University of
Tennessee—Chattanooga. Davidson finished the season at 9-7 in the conference and 14-15 overall, their best record in the last eight
years. This spring Davidson had the best recruiting in the Southern Conference, and six top prospects. With a solid core
of returning players, and an eager crop of freshmen, the Wildcats have much to look forward to.

Housing Shortage
The addition of Mary Irwin Belk and Peter Knox dorms to the musical beds game relieved some of the housing
tensions, but the college has also aggravated the situation by closing down several perimeter houses. By year’s end, the college
could not guarantee on-campus or perimeter housing for 120 students.

David Resnik ‘85

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 7 May 1982
