Library Questions Hubbub
By TIM MCGAUGHEY ’85

Library Director Dr. Leland Park recently conducted two separate surveys concerning noise levels in the library. The Library conducted the
first poll over a period of four days during two separate weeks and received 300-400 responses. Two hundred randomly selected
students responded to the second survey. Dr. Park says that the results of these surveys should be out in the
next two to three weeks.

The Director’s policy concerning student noise is that “the library is for students and therefore they should decide how much
noise they will tolerate.” His staff is for research assistance and not to police the library. The building naturally has
different sections which allow people both to socialize and study. Dr. Park says that the basement study areas provide a
quiet atmosphere for serious study, while the front part of the first floor gives room for students to talk. To
illustrate the popularity of his student-oriented policy, Dr. Park cites the 1,500 patrons who use the library daily.

Hall Counselors
By PEGGY PIEROTTI ’86

Who could ever forget their first term at Davidson? Everything is so different—academics, social life, roommates, and independence. The only
real guidance, in fact, is in the form of two well-informed hall counselors. Carefully selected by a 9-10 person committee
consisting of Dean of Students Will Terry, Sue Ross, the two Freshmen Advisors Mike Mason and Amy Crittenberger, a senior
who had been a hall counselor, two current hall counselors, and one freshman, these men and women are then provided
with an official Hall Counselor Handbook which states on page 3 that they serve “primarily to ease the freshman’s adjustment
to college life and to promote a climate in which the individual student can grow and develop to the full
extent of his ability.”

According to the handbook, the counselor also “acts as a resource, catalyst, and consultant,” and the job will vary from
“developing study habits” to “roommate adjustments.” Will Terry says that the presence of these counselors is “a prime reason we
have such a very low attrition rate here at Davidson.” According to Terry, there are “at least twice as many
applicants” than positions for hall counselors each year. Among the qualities necessary for counselors, Terry lists “a willingness to support
the College, diversity, an ability to handle the load, good study habits, social awareness, and an ability to handle leadership
and discipline.”

There are many advantages to being a counselor, however, according to basement Richardson’s Caroline Boudreau, “It’s really neat to get
to know all the girls so well.” Hunter Monroe on First Center West feels that the best part is “doing
all the [freshman] stuff again and doing it right.” Diversity is another important advantage of being a counselor. Steve King
says that his First West “encompasses the entire spectrum of humanity.” The major disadvantages of being a counselor include lack
of sleep, drinking, and roommates who do not get along. Hall counselors provide a major source of Davidson’s environment, especially
freshman year. They provide help, relief, and memorable times.

Financial Aid Up-in-the-Air

CPS—College students should expect the same or less funding from the federal government over the next few years, the Reagan
administration’s top higher education official told a convention of loan officers in Colorado Springs, Colorado last week. Edward Elmendorf, acting
assistant secretary for postsecondary education, told a meeting of the National Association of State Scholarship and Grant Programs and the
National Council of Higher Education Loan Programs that the U.S. Dept. of Education’s next budget proposal will probably be much
like its last one. That proposal, offered in February but ultimately rejected by Congress, called for a 50 percent cut
in federal student aid programs.

Elmendorf would not reveal specifics of the next Reagan education budget—it is, he says, still being hammered out—but predicted the
administration would try to reduce the number of aid programs from seven to three: Guaranteed Student Loans, College Work-Study, and
Pell Grants. That would mean consolidating AuxiliaryLoans, State Student Incentive Grants (SSIGs), Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants (SEOGs), and National Direct
Student Loans (NDSLs) into other programs. In the last budget request, the administration tried to abolish SSIGs, SEOGs, NDSLs, and
Student Social Security. It succeeded only in eliminating Student Social Security. “I don’t think we need seven student aid programs
to do the job of helping needy students through college,” Elmendorf told a panel on government support of higher education.
“Our concern is to eliminate waste and increase efficiency in the programs, not to deny education to deserving students,” he
explained. “But we’d also ask that deserving students pay their fair share.” Elmendorf said the administration’s program to get students
to pay a bigger share of their education costs before qualifying for aid is working. Private college students, he said,
are now paying a greater percentage of their college costs themselves. But Charles Saunders of the American Council on Education
pointed out that those students come from wealthier families, that they are borrowing twice as much money as they did
last year, and that a recent study showed lower-income students had been forced to transfer to cheaper public colleges because
of the aid cuts.

Colleges Responsible For Frat Antics

CPS—A court decision and a new lawsuit may make fraternities, sororities, and even colleges themselves liable for members’ hazing injuries
and deaths. Until a Virginia court decision earlier this fall, only individuals had been held liable for hazing incidents. Now
a University of Delaware student has sued his fraternity and the university for injuries he suffered during Sigma Phi Epsilon
initiation rites two years ago. The two phenomena, some feel, may force college administrators to regulate more closely the activities
of area fraternities and sororities. In Virginia, a court has held the Phi Kappa Sigma house at the University of
Virginia liable for $125,000 in damages. A fraternity member had hit a pledge in the head with a beer can.
At Delaware, a student two weeks ago sued the university and Sigma Phi Epsilon for damages associated with injuries he
received during a “Hell Night” ritual in 1980. At that time, one brother poured lye-cleaner on the pledge, causing second-
and third-degree burns on his head, face, chest, and back. “I don’t know of any universities that have been convicted
of partial responsibility in a hazing incident,” notes Mary Kennard of the National Association of College and University Attorneys, “but
such a case could always come along.” Administrators say that a finding against a school may force them to restrict
fraternity parties and to force houses associated with the schools to show proof of insurance. Until recently, the most severe
punishments for hazing activities were campus suspensions. But California, New York, and Wisconsin have passed anti-hazing laws which make jail
sentences and fines automatic for fraternity members convicted of hazing pledges. A group called the Committee to Halt Useless College
Killings, founded by the parent of a student killed in a 1978 hazing incident, is lobbying for anti-hazing legislation in
Congress. “I don’t think fraternity hazing is actually on the increase,” observes Jonathan Brant, executive director of the National Interfraternity
Conference, “but a lot more people are talking about it, and concerned with eliminating it.” Brant, who stresses hazing is
strictly forbidden by all national houses, says fraternities are “working on ways to prevent hazing before we have to decide
who was responsible.”

Selective Service Charged With Wastage

The Central Committee for Conscientious Objectors, the nation’s largest draft counseling agency, charged Selective Service with wasting taxpayers’ money by
planning to mail a quarter of a million letters to suspected non-registrants in an effort to enforce a non-enforceable registration.
“The federal courts handle about 30,000 cases a year at this time,” stated attorney at CCCO Jim Feldman. “So far,
only eight of these cases have involved non-registrants. There is no way the courts can handle hundreds of thousands of
new cases.” The names of these suspected draft

THE DAVIDSONIAN/5 November 1982
