The discussion was led by speakers from AA and Al-Anon, as well as the Assistant Director of Admissions, Jimmy Williams.
Mr. Williams is an experienced counselor on alcoholism and drug abuse. While it is recognized that the meeting was informational
rather than therapeutic, it is hoped that it will “raise campus consciousness concerning alcohol abuse.”

Students Take Stand on El-Salvador

The Charlotte Committee on El Salvador recently introduced a petition urging the US Congress “to cease providing any military aid
to El Salvador, and to reject categorically military intervention of any kind.” Set up about a year ago, the Charlotte
Committee is an organization run by a number of concerned individuals who espouse such causes, and has an active membership
of around 200. Mark Barrett, a member of the Charlotte Committee and head of the newly-formed Davidson Coalition on El
Salvador, has been canvassing on campus for signatures and support, and is pleased with the response from both faculty and
students. “Before we started, we knew that it wouldn’t be easy, since it is difficult to get a positive, active
response from people. But this issue has certain Christian and moral aspects which are hard to ignore. Much of it
is salient to Davidson.”

Barrett feels that the Reagan administration is particularly sensitive to criticism at the moment: “With such an aggregate public opinion
on this matter, and with his Budget under fire from all sides, there is reason to believe that the President
can be persuaded to modify his stance.” Recently published a poll in which 89% of those questioned voiced disapproval of
US policy in El Salvador. Yesterday, the Davidson Coalition on El Salvador held a meeting to plan events for this
term. Currently being organized is a contingent for the national demonstration in Washington D.C. on March 27th, as well as
a number of films and meetings. Anyone interested in joining the Coalition or attending a meeting should contact Mark Barrett
on 4682.

by Alessandro Vitelli (Rusk Scholar)

Davidson Gets Rated

Davidson College appears as one of the 265 institutions reviewed in the first New York Times Selective Guide to Colleges:
1982-1983. The guide includes information about colleges, and comparative ratings of the best schools in the country. The Times developed
the book to serve as a subjective, yet journalistic description of outstanding colleges and universities. Twelve-page questionnaires were sent to
Dean of Students Terry, President Spencer, and Director of Admissions Griffith. Then editor of the Davidsonian, John Siman (’82) also
provided input. Colleges were rated in three broad categories: academics, social, and quality of life. Out of a possible 5
stars, Davidson got four, three, and four in each category, respectively.

Academics was judged by several criteria. Factors included course offerings, teaching and research, academic quality of students, and facilities (size
of library, etc.). The amount of social life is indicated by the second rating. The guide states “a college with
a rating of four or five stars is a party school.” Quality of life, a term taken from the social
sciences, is a broad indication of the overall desirability of “spending four years in the place.” Academically, public schools were
generally rated above their private counterparts, “to sharpen the distinction between the two.” Five stars were given to Amherst, Columbia,
Harvard, MIT, and Stanford, among others. Only 23 private schools received this highest rating. Duke, Emory, Notre Dame, Vanderbilt, and
William and Mary accompany Davidson in the four-star category. No private school below the Mason-Dixon line rated above four stars.

Director of Admissions John Griffith was upset with the treatment received by Davidson. He claimed that students are not “intolerant,”
and that...The publication shows a strong northern bias. The Quality of Life rating given to Davidson was one of the
highest awarded to a private college. Among the select private colleges featured, Davidson rated in the lowest “expense” category.

by John Richards

Newsweek magazine recommended a reevaluation of Patterson Court and its problems. Oldenburg especially emphasized the noise ordinance which “could be
a very dangerous and sticky matter.” He said he did not agree with the first proposal. “This issue will be
a key one for the social life of the whole school.” The SGA needs to “emphasize more work on committees,”
Oldenburg said. “Meetings tended to bog down.” The SGA should also work harder to express student needs to the administration.
“That’s an area that needs to be sucked for all it’s worth,” Oldenburg said.

Steve Reardon

Steve Reardon, a sophomore economics major from Durham, North Carolina, has not been an elected member of the SGA but
worked this year on the Parents’ Weekend and Career Symposium Committees and is Entertainment Committee Chairperson for SGA Weekend this
spring. Reardon is a member of PiKA fraternity, an NC Fellow, and will be a Hall Counselor next year.

“I enjoy organizational work,” Reardon said. He added that he is “not very political” but likes to get things done.
Reardon said the future of Patterson Court is one of the most important issues the SGA must address. “I will
support the elimination of self-selection and a return to a bid system,” Reardon said. Other issues Reardon cited were the
need for more support for women’s athletics and minor sports. Reardon stressed the need to involve students, including non-SGA members,
in the work of the SGA. “I’ve always had a positive opinion of the SGA. I'd like to see (committee
work) being carried out more efficiently.”

Boe Young

A junior economics major from Kansas City, Boe Young worked this year as an SGA Senator on the Security and
Grounds, Admissions, and Trustee Contact Committees. He co-authored this year’s student parking proposal. Young was also a member of the
Residence Hall Council, Social Chairman of ETC eating house, and Public Relations Chairman for the SigEP fraternity. Young holds an
ROTC scholarship and has lettered in wrestling at Davidson.

Young said he decided to run for Vice-President because he had recognized the SGA’s potential and wanted to “hold an
office of more substance.” “I’ve been involved in a multitude of activities that affect the campus,” Boe said, “which have
allowed me to acquire a firm and basic knowledge of student issues as well as those intangible skills of leadership,
organization, and motivation.”

Three major issues facing the SGA, according to Young, are security, the proposed noise ordinance, and the debate over self-selection.
Better lighting for the new dorms could improve security, and careful consideration of the noise ordinance would include examination of
the “vital effect it will have both on and off campus.” Young said the self-selection system as it is currently
run “is ineffective in accomplishing what it was originally designed for. Essentially the on-campus fraternities operate under a bid system.”
Young said if the current arrangement did not arouse the College administration’s concern, self-selection “should be abolished in favor of
a true bid system” among the fraternities, with eating house self-selection remaining unchanged.

“I feel I can commit myself and stick my neck out for any issues the SGA and students think are
important,” Young said. Young proposed two improvements for the SGA. The SGA should expand its advisory role toward the Administration:
“SGA is the most effective method students have of relaying their thoughts to the Administration.” Internally, SGA committees need an
“overseer” to help them improve efficiency.

Interview and story by Elizabeth Kiss

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982
