haps one of the better games this year. Even the players that don’t usually see much action got in and
whipped up.

P.: Excuse me. When you say “whipped up,” just what do you mean?

E.: Aw, come on, Plimpton, use your imagination. You know, “whipped up” – “creamed,” “beat the s--t out of.”

P.: Okay, get on with the game.

E.: Quit stopping me and I will. Anyway, Mike Mauzé scored the first goal on a ball that bobbled around
the goal mouth; he knocked it in from about 10 yards and we knew we were rolling...

P.: What do...

E.: I mean that the team had momentum from that first goal on. Right after that, Tony Cavralas crossed me
the ball and I chest-trapped it toward their goal. Their defender got it and tried to clear it, but I
was bearing down on him so hard that he panicked and kicked it in. I got credit though, I think.

P.: I thought that you wouldn’t take garbage goals.

E.: Come on, it’s getting late in the season... Mauzé scored again at the beginning of the second half on
a beautiful volley that rocketed straight into the top panel of the net.

P.: What about the other two goals?

E.: Tony Cavralas scored the fourth by juking past about three defenders and reaming one from about 25 yards. The
fifth goal was mine; a beautiful left-footed shot after spinning and putting one of my Pele moves on their defender.
You see...

P.: That’s probably enough about the goals, especially yours. Did you play another game last Saturday?

E.: Yes, but that isn’t important considering what happened Tuesday.

P.: Don’t you think people would like to read about it?

E.: Why would they when they can read more about my goals...

P.: You know, you’re incredibly selfish. Just tell us about Saturday’s game.

E.: I guess you’re right. Saturday’s game was really a loss for the team even though they tied 1-1. University
of Tennessee soccer is just beginning and I think we came out a little over-confident.

P.: That certainly sounds like a standard response by teams that have bad games. Can’t you assess the tie any
better than that?

E.: I was trying, George, until you barged in with your badgering comment. It’s hard for the team to get
up for every single game; when you’re undefeated, everyone is out to knock you off and that puts a lot
of pressure on winning. After Roberts scored on a penalty and they tied us up with a nice goal, we
got rattled and started arguing a little between us. There was a big crowd and a lot of pressure. Tuesday’s
5-0 smash over Pembroke was a good release for the team after a frustrating loss.

P.: Well, do you have anything else to say about the team?

E.: Not really anything important, George... except that we are 7-0-4 and still undefeated. Oh yes, we got ranked ninth
in the South, the first time in Davidson’s history. Saturday, we play another Southern Conference game at home against U.T.-Chattanooga.

P.: What about yourself? Since you’ve scored now, where is the excitement in playing? Will you enjoy being out every
day and kicking when the thrill is gone?

E.: No way, George. I’m going after the Southern Conference scoring title. We’ve still got eight games left and if
I...can average about two goals every game, I should be in good shape."

P.: "That seems kind of ridiculous considering the present seasonal facts, doesn’t it?"

E.: "No, not really, George. I’ve got more moves than a bucket of worms, and a million-dollar left foot."

P.: "Yeah, and I feel very proud to be on television trying to sell video games."

by John Ruppenthal

Freshman forward Sean Austin moves through open field (top), and shoots past the Tennessee goalie (bottom) in Saturday’s 1-1 draw.

Hockey Splits with Wake, Pfeiffer
Hamilton Scores Two Against Deacons
By KARA GILMORE ’85

Last Wednesday the lady Cats traveled to Winston-Salem to take on the Deacons of Wake Forest. What was supposed to
be a good morale-boosting game almost ended in disaster. To put it bluntly, we played a terrible first half. We
looked sluggish and sloppy—not hustling back on defense or cutting hard to passes on offense. Wake Forest, however, couldn’t take
advantage of it and failed to score.

There was one bright spot for us in the half—a beautiful goal by Mavin Martin. Mavin collected a good “through”
pass from Sarah Hart, dodged three Wake Forest defenders and beat the goalie one-on-one with an excellent shot at the
left corner of the goal.

The second half was a whole different story, as the Cats regrouped at halftime, came out ready to play, and
took control of the game. We kept the ball on the offensive about 90 percent of the time, applying almost
constant pressure on the Deacon goalie. The defense did a superb job of supporting the offensive line and sending the
ball back up to them.

Our second goal came when Suzie Klineman took a shot from the right corner, which the goalie stopped but allowed
to deflect off her pads. Lou Hamilton was there to pounce on the loose ball and send it in.

The third and final goal came a few minutes later. Lou scored this one also, this time with a blast
from the top of the circle off a penalty corner.

The game the next day against Pfeiffer could be described in two words: physical and disappointing. It was a fast-paced,
action-packed game, with both teams playing very aggressively with a lot of back and forth action. Neither team was in
control of the game, as both had numerous opportunities to score. Pfeiffer managed to capitalize on one of these chances
about midway through the first half, to take a 1-0 lead. It stayed that way until about midway through the
second half when Pfeiffer managed to score again.

All of this was extremely frustrating for the Cats since it seemed that between the two goals we had controlled
the ball for a considerable amount of time, but were simply unable to score. After Pfeiffer’s second goal we really
put on an offensive surge. We kept the ball inside their 25-yard line for about five minutes, during which time
we took about seven or eight penalty corners. As was typical of the day, we came away empty. Pfeiffer added
two more goals in the last few minutes to make the final score 4-0.

It was a frustrating loss for us, especially since we had played well and had come so close to scoring
so many times. The lady Cats will finally be in action at home again Wednesday, 20 October against Converse.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 15 October, 1982
