Badly Needed Pep

Cordially Addressed to the Mister Editor:

Sir:

It has occurred to me, although not only recently and certainly not to me alone, that the institution referred to on this college campus as the Davidsonian has fallen into the same artistic vacuum as other institutions of this same sort on various other parts of the globe, particularly in these the United States of America. I feel more than quite qualified to make this statement, an observation really, because I have seen a rather large portion of this earth and have made it a point to read the journals and newspapers wheresoever my travels may take me. Please do not misunderstand me, for I mean no disparagement for you or for your journal nor am I implying that yours is a less than the average or bad weekly publication. No indeed! It is true that the Davidsonian, like every other conservative journal ever written, is totally lacking in perspective, but this one is no worse than others. Readers should bear in mind the unfortunate fact that on a conservative campus such as this one, there are only closet liberals and virtually no radicals, who remain entirely secretive. The reasons for this are clear and simple. Every time individuals of the aforementioned sort emerge they are immediately accused of social sedition and attempting to undermine the holy foundations upon which this country is based and of doing all of these crimes for some foreign communist power, usually the Soviet Union. Consequently, they are not likely to be found writing for the paper.

A word of caution is needed here. It is a grave error and simply wrong to term the members or affiliates of the ATO eating establishment liberal or radical. They are participating in their own separate concept of social reality which happens to differ slightly from that commonly accepted. I’ve gotten quite off the track here.

As I was saying, the Davidsonian is somewhat lacking in artistry. Specifically, it does not have any sort of personal accounts or installments. As many English majors as there are on this campus you would think that at least one of them would be moved by the spirit of Charles Dickens to create some fascinating character and write in every week with another tantalizing episode from this character’s life. But I imagine that English majors lead rather boring lives, and therefore, have no resources or experiences from which they could construct a story that would be anything more than exceedingly boring. No matter, for I am here to rescue you from your predicament. Beginning next week, I will commence in the writing of anecdotes and stories in general from my own truly interesting life, though they shall by no means be chronological or consecutive, but certainly they shall have some unity and flow. This will, of course, add some badly needed pep to your humble publication, and it will help me pass the time seeing as I am forced to remain here for an unspecified duration. Not only will these tales be entertaining and amazing but they will also be entirely, utterly and completely true and factual. In addition, you will have the added pleasure of my commentaries and observations. This promises to be quite a worthwhile venture for us both.

Until next week.

Very sincerely yours,

A.M.C. d’Threekville

The Mail

Ms. World History

To the editor:

While researching the rise and fall of western civilization for a Humes paper one year, I discovered several historical incidents which led to the development oftoday’s Homecoming events, Davidson’s most cherished annual tradition beside graduation. The first recorded incident occurred in Greece in 545 B.C. when slave women were displayed on a platform during halftime at a gladiator game. The chief official present bought the most beautiful one, and the others were sold to spectators. The Romans in 112 B.C. allowed certain women to enter the Colosseum between games to motivate the all-male athletes. Each woman was made the prize of a specific event, and the men could collect their prizes at the end of their competition. Similar to this in medieval times, noble women would parade around the field during a jousting tournament. Whichever knight won the match had his pick of the ladies-in-waiting. The only evidence of such activity during the Renaissance period is found in “Horse Race in the Streets of Florence” by an unknown painter and Apollonio di Giovanni’s “An Acrobat and Wrestlers Performing,” both of which depict women cheering male participants from the sidelines. I believe, though, that these works of art are more representative of cheerleaders than of homecoming attendants at Davidson.

A closer resemblance to our homecoming pageants is found at agricultural fairs in England during the 1800s. Jon Ridler, a dairyman, auctioned off his wife at such a fair in 1822. Every year afterward, aspiring young farmers would do the same, hoping to make a profit and lose their nags at the same time. The women stood on a wooden crate, displayed their attributes, and hoped for a nicer husband than the one who was selling them. By 1889, the law in England prohibited the selling of wives, even by their spouses. Due to its popularity, though, the auction continued inconspicuously, usually while a soccer match was being played. By the early 1900s, the auction phased out, but women were still herded across the field in keeping with tradition. In America, the annual midgame pageantry still prevails. Out of tradition, women parade around a field and stand on a wooden platform waiting to be judged Homecoming Queen of the Year. Some people think we should not have a Homecoming court anymore; they believe it is chauvinistic, puts women on platforms pedestals, and idealizes the female form. Yet the history and popularity behind the pageant keep it alive—year after year, homecoming queen after homecoming queen.

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from our readers. We try to print all letters that are of general interest, but we adhere to these four guidelines:
1. We require that letters be in our hands by Tuesday 7 p.m.
2. We require that letters be neatly typed.
3. We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editor, Stewart Cauley.
4. We reserve the right not to print letters that (a) function as advertisements; (b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes; (c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in many other letters printed on the same topic. We also reserve the right to condense very long letters.

The Davidsonian does not in any way endorse the opinions expressed in the letters we print.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/1 October 1982