Focus on DCF: One of the larger groups on campus seeks diversity, understanding campus-wide

BY FRED BROADWELL '83

Here is a typical scene at Davidson College. On a weekday night about ten o’clock, people start streaming into the
room across the hall. You look to one of your hall-mates and he whispers to you, “DCF small group.” “Oh,
DCF!” What visions those three letters arouse in your mind. If you are like many Davidson students, you now quickly
grab your books and escape to the library. Why escape? Well, you, for one, certainly have no need for a
fundamentalist Bible-study group led by your constantly smiling hall-mate. Besides, you are taking “Old Testament 101” and the professor says
that fundamentalism is anti-intellectual and mindless.

It is precisely this image which Davidson Christian Fellowship is trying to buck, say its leaders. “Yes, we do suffer
from a PR problem,” large group leader Tim Ritchie admits. Tim cites the general lack of awareness about DCF and
what it stands for as the source of their PR problem. “We have a very simple objective: spread the Gospel.
This includes discipleship, evangelism, and world missions as part of our program.”

DCF is a nondenominational Christian group which meets together in “large group” on Friday nights and in “small groups” of
about 6-12 people once a week. Usually, one hundred people attend large group meetings, while (significantly) double that number participate
in the small groups. This is probably due to the personal atmosphere of small groups which many students cannot find
at local churches or at large group meetings.

DCF is autonomous of Davidson College, meaning, for instance, that Charlie Summers, the college chaplain, has no official duties with
DCF. The group does receive $400-$600 in funding from the school as a campus organization. DCF is also not connected
with such organizations as Campus Crusade for Christ or Inter-Varsity, although structurally there may be similarities between these groups and
DCF. The fellowship group is headed by an executive committee of 10-12 people, including a president, two large group leaders,
a small group coordinator, and a service coordinator. There are also approximately 40 small group leaders.

Beyond these facts, what is DCF? DCF President Eric Fichtner says: “We have a very simple objective: spread the Gospel.
This includes discipleship, evangelism, and world missions as a part of our program.” The group has adopted a theme this
year, which they hope will give them more direction than in the past. Tim Ritchie explains the theme as “the
message of ‘Ephesians 4’ which emphasizes the Body of Christ.” (Ephesians 4:11: “And his gifts were that some would be
apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, some pastors and teachers . . . for building up the body of Christ, until
we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God . .
.”) Tim says, “We are trying to actualize that body here at Davidson. That is why more students should attend
large group meetings as well as participate in small groups.”

DCF is also trying to fight the idea that the organization is dominated by a clique or an elite. Tim
Ritchie agrees that DCF may have appeared as a clique in the past, but this year DCF is trying to
be as diverse as possible. “We encourage our members to get involved in...All aspects of Davidson.” Tim also wants DCF
to avoid the problems of arrogance and personality conflicts so that “the Gospel can challenge students and not the group
itself.” One small group leader notes, in support of this, that often two small group leaders have dissimilar views of
Christianity which keep their small group diverse. However, some students view DCF as a large organization run by a select
few. The executive committee is not elected by DCF members at large; instead, the committee selects its own replacements. Some
criticism of this method has arisen, but at a “large group” meeting last year, members decided not to replace the
current system. Eric Fichtner comments that he does have some reservations about officer selection, but that the current procedure produces
an effective, dedicated leadership. “We'll probably bring the issue up again this year at a ‘large group’ meeting,” says Eric.

Another question frequently asked about DCF is whether it is Fundamentalist or not. Brad Mullis, a large group leader, denies
the suggestion that DCF believes in Fundamentalism. “We may be the only group on campus which provides an outlet for
conservative Christians, but they are not the official voice for DCF. No one person speaks theologically for DCF.” Brad adds,
“There is as much breadth in the fellowship as in the faith.” Chris Marshburn, religion major and DCF member, disagrees
and sees a theological stance of DCF manifested in an antipathy toward the Religion department. He comments: “I am disturbed
about the negative light in which the Religion department is portrayed by many people in DCF. There is a lot
of concern within their ranks about ‘purity of doctrine.’ To approach the Bible with an open mind and critical attitude
is a mark of Christian maturity, not a lack of faith.” Eric Fichtner does not think DCF advocates a sort
of “intellectual suicide, so to speak. We are meeting intellectual needs at Davidson and don’t want blind faith or obedience,”
says Eric. Tentative speakers at large group include two members of the Religion faculty.

Many students are turned off by their perception of DCF’s approach; folk music and Bible study just do not interest
some students. To this criticism, Tim Ritchie comments that less folk music and more hymns are now used at large
group meetings. This Friday, John Spangler, who spent the summer in Liberia, and Stewart Wicker, DCF service coordinator, will speak
at large group. They are emphasizing DCF’s need to be service-minded. A small group leader says, “Not all small groups
do Bible study; some discuss current issues and others like mine avoid any set structure.” Finally, Brad Mullis comments, “If
you haven’t been to a large group meeting yet this year, don’t criticize us using four-year-old stereotypes. Come see for
yourself.”

REXALL DRUGS
“Serving Davidson For Sixteen Years”
131 N. Main Street
Davidson, N.C.
892-0208

Snap out of it on Nov. 18th. We're asking every smoker to quit for 24 hours on Nov. 18th. Ask
for a free “Special Stop Smokin’ Wrist Snappin’ Red Rubber Band.” You might find that not smoking can be habit-forming.
And we'll even help. Just ask us.

This space contributed as a public service.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 15 October 1982
