Record reviews with Jon Glance

B-52’s

One of the saddest sights in rock music is the band which has one hit and then spends the rest
of their career trying to recover the success from their initial effort. I am happy to say, however, that the
B-52’s don’t qualify as a one-shot band. On their third release, Mesopotamia (or their fourth if you count the embarrassing
and easily forgettable Party Mix EP), the B-52’s reach for a maturity of style that often succeeds, and only rarely
do they even resemble the mindless minimalist party band of their first album.

A good deal of this commendable insight might be the result of their choice of producer—New Wave auteur David Byrne
of the Talking Heads. Byrne concentrates on and accentuates the basic duality of the B-52’s, as revealed on their first
two albums. The first side features the band’s more sensual, subtle persona, with the songs “Loveland,” the hypnotic “Deep Sleep,”
and the throbbing “Mesopotamia.” The other side is made up of the sillier, rowdier tunes entitled “Cake,” the potential dance
hit “Throw That Beat in the Garbage Can,” and “Nip It in the Bud.” The overall trend seems to be
songs more similar to “Give Me Back My Man” (from their last album Wild Planet) as opposed to a rehash
of “Rock Lobster.”

The band’s use of more instruments is the most noticeable change on the EP. Although “found” sounds have always been
part of their sound (e.g., the toy piano and walkie-talkie on their debut LP), Byrne has added more extensive keyboards
and even a tape-altered horn and accordion section on one song. Piano, clavinet, and even prepared piano are used tastefully
and to good effect on various passages.

Fred Schneider still claims the silliest lyrics, such as “The neighbors are complaining/It’s getting out of hand/Throw that beat/In the
garbage can,” as if they were the most obvious, important things he knows. Ricky Wilson’s guitar still whips off catchy,
clanging riffs, and Cindy Wilson and Kate Pierson still achieve positive harmonies with Lauderdale nights.

Probably the best song on the EP is the title tune. With its playful, bouncy bass line fading up under
a pulsing drum beat, it provides a perfect backdrop for the vocal dialogue between a breathy ingenue who wants to
meet the jerky leading man (who is a “student of ancient culture”) over by the third pyramid. The unlikely tryst
is culminated with the chorus “Six or eight thousand years ago/They laid down the law/In Mesopotamia,” with the whole absurd
tune catching the weight of a sock-hop with Flashdance.

This is the B-52’s at their playful and hip best. The new EP by the B-52’s, while having a few
weak spots, consistently projects a reflection of a maturing band which is moving ahead into new territory while avoiding the
pitfall of alienating its audience by abandoning the strongest of its original aspects. The goofy personalities in the band are
what we have come to anticipate in this “tacky little dance band” from Athens, Georgia, and Mesopotamia doesn’t let us
down.
