Results

Over the past few weeks, several Patterson Court houses and both off-campus fraternities elected officers.

PAX
PAX officers include Lee McCormack, President; Caryn Hoskins, Vice President; Rob Singleton, Treasurer; Drew Wells, Assistant Treasurer; Brad Cove and
Betsy Brice, Social Chairmen; Jeb Benedict, Board Manager; and Dave Rowe, House Manager.

KA
Kappa Alpha elected Chuck Hasty, President; Ellis Tinsley, V.P.; and Jim Crowe, Secretary.

ATO
ATO’s new officers are Jeff Herrin, President; Bill Crone, Assistant Treasurer; Linda Hulbert, House Manager; and Richard Barber and Stewart
MacWilliam, Social Chairmen.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Pi Kappa Alpha officers include Ed Whitesides, President; Ken Krieg, V.P.; John Niepold, Assistant Treasurer; Steve Stine, Social Chairman; Mark
Morrison and Dave Barber, Co-Managers.

ETC
ETC elected Cambria Melton, President; Steve Lawrence, Treasurer; Dave Smith and Dan Blood, House Managers; and Guido, Chief Informant.

F&M
F&M’s new officers are Sarah Moody, President; Melissa McKeithen, V.P.; Jon Norwood, Treasurer; Dunbar Ivy and Johnny Edwards, Social Chairmen;
Mike Murphy, Head Waiter; and John Odell, Assistant Head Waiter.

Rusk
Rusk House has elected Buncie Hay, President; Amy Ashworth, V.P.; Ridgely Madlin, Social Chairman; Boo Hogan, Assistant Social Chairman; Kathy
Stokes, Kitchen Manager; Lynn Folcher, Assistant Kitchen Manager; Sherri Lind, House Manager; and Anne Hurt, Treasurer.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Sigma Phi Epsilon elected Frank Clark, President; George Murrell, V.P.

Fiji
Officers of Fiji are Dave Shoemaker, President; Scott Haight, Treasurer; Kevin Attar, Corresponding Secretary; Dale Culpepper, Recording Secretary; Jeff Kistler,
Historian; and Tom Hissam, Social Chairman.

Milk Co-op
Five eating houses have decided to participate in a co-op milk buying service with the Commons, according to Dining Service
Director Carlton Pritchard. Phi Delt, SAE, ATO, Emanon, and PAX will participate in the co-op.

Traveling Minstrels
Over Spring break, Davidson’s musical groups will travel across the United States to represent the college and to have fun.
Vladimir Morosan and the choirs will tour the South and parts of the Midwest, including Asheville, Nashville, Memphis, Knoxville, Louisville,
St. Louis, and Kansas City. Dr. Morosan said that the Spring tour will be the first time the male chorus,
women’s chorus, and their combined concert choir will perform together as an ensemble.

Director William Lawing will travel with the instrumental ensembles to Jacksonville, Ormond Beach, Ft. Lauderdale, Sarasota, St. Petersburg, Orlando, and
Atlanta.

Davidson sports will continue action throughout Spring vacation, with teams traveling to Florida, South Carolina, and Virginia. The men’s tennis
team will go to Amelia Island, Florida for training while the women’s team will travel to a training camp in
Tampa. The golf team plans to meet Rollins College in Florida for a match. The baseball team will visit Savannah
and Augusta for games, while wrestling and track will compete.

Jackson Receives Fellowship
Art Professor Herb Jackson was chosen, with seven other Southeastern artists, from among 1,000 entrants for the sixth-annual National Endowment
for the Arts fellowship program. As a winner, he receives a $2,000 grant and will have a one-man show at
the Southeastern Center for Contemporary Art in Winston-Salem. Jackson, who has been teaching at Davidson since 1969, has works in
at least seventy public collections including the Whitney Museum of Art in New York, the Library of Congress in Washington,
D.C., and the British Museum in London.

The following people were selected last week to be the 1982-83 hall counselors:
Douglas Ammar
Caroline Boudreau
Robert Bruce
Scott Campbell
Jim Cox
Katie Dagenhart
Mary Fant
John Ferguson
Deborah Hayes
Stephen King
Terry Kurts
Dwayne Lett
Sherri K. Lind
Matthew Merrell
Hunter Monroe
Vickie Neale
Jay Norman
Frances Palmer
Steve Reardon
Bill Satterwhite
William Shreve
Lisa Smith
Rob Spaugh
Drew Wells
Howie Wilkins

Alternates:
Sharon Bryant
Elizabeth Flanders
Todd Hermetz
Kelly Moore
Lindsey Rader
William Stroud
Tom Walker

Students Protest Nerve Gas Production
As a response to a staff editorial in the Charlotte Observer, a group of students are planning to organize a
protest against recent Reagan administration decisions to increase the production of nerve gas. Students will hold signs at the basketball
game vs. South Carolina in Charlotte Saturday night. Freshman David Resnick hopes that at least 100 students will join the
protest, and that it will draw wide attention since the game is to be televised.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982
