Jacques Cousteau Meets James Bond

"Thunderball," the fourth in the never-ending James Bond movie saga, makes it to Davidson Friday night at Love Auditorium. A huge success in 1965, "Thunderball" has, over the years, become one of the most popular James Bond movies of all time, and it’s easy to see why. There’s plenty of action, violence (in the comic book tradition, of course), clever gadgets (jet packs, Geiger counter cameras, etc.), and of course, the usual assortment of curvaceous girls to satisfy any seeker of escapist entertainment.

The plot is intriguing: an evil bunch of international baddies known as SPECTRE (stands for something wicked—what exactly, I’m not sure) are planning to hijack a NATO Vulcan aircraft containing 2 MOS Atomic Bombs and then hold the world for ransom with them (nasty, huh?). SPECTRE’s leader, the mysterious Ernst Stavro Blofeld (his face is hidden behind a screen), has appointed Emil Largo to execute the hijacking. Largo is viciously played by the fine European actor, Adolfo Celi. But alas, all is not lost, for the good guys have an ace in the deck, James Bond. Sean Connery is the definitive version of Ian Fleming’s super sleuth. In spite of some recent, entertaining efforts by Roger Moore, nobody does it better than Connery. He is suave, debonair, and cunning all at the same time.

The film moves from a typically clever James Bond opening sequence to the high-tension climactic underwater battle. This underwater war between the Coast Guard and SPECTRE (in black wet suits naturally) is stunning, and the main reason to see the film. The rest of the film is alternately exciting and dull. Director Terence Young and writer Richard Maibaum have trashed much of the book for their screenplay, and some of it just doesn’t work. Yet, in spite of this, "Thunderball" is worth seeing. After all, lesser James Bond movies are far more entertaining than the best of most other action films.

"Thunderball," directed by Terence Young; written by Richard Maibaum and Ian Fleming; starring Sean Connery, Claudine Auger, and Adolfo Celi.

Film Review with Matt Morris—

States. Jack, a movie soundman, stumbles onto some things he shouldn’t have, and the tension rises to a simply fantastic chase that goes on for more than a third of the film. Director DePalma weaves some stunning camera shots into his tale, among them several incredibly long tracking shots, and a 360-degree turn that spins around and around in a sequence in Jack’s room. But what really makes "Blow Out" work is John Travolta. He has virtually stripped himself of all the "Saturday Night Fever" machoism and perfectly realized the character of Jack. He is a disillusioned, pot-bellied chain smoker who is constantly at odds with himself, and his performance inspired Pauline Kael to call him “a young Brando.”

Some will find fault in the film, and indeed it does have its flaws. Parts of "Blow Out" are sluggish, confusing, and most certainly the ending will be met with bewilderment by some. However, I think the ending of this film is what makes it a good movie; it is alternately shattering and beautiful and ties up everything.Perfectly. Saturday Night Fear Blow Out, controversial director Brian DePalma’s masterpiece, will be shown in Love Auditorium Wednesday, 29 September. DePalma’s films have often been maligned by critics as being Alfred Hitchcock rip-offs (and in at least one case, his 1976 film Obsession, this is true), yet with Blow Out, DePalma has learned to stand on his own feet and make a film that is strikingly original. It also offers a brilliant performance by John Travolta (yes, John Travolta) as Jack, the sound man for a sleazy film studio. Starting with a clever opening sequence that gives Friday the 13th movies a swift, satirical punch, the film jumps into a mysterious conspiracy plot involving a future president of the United States.

Blow Out, written and directed by Brian DePalma; starring John Travolta, Nancy Allen, and John Lithgow.

Absolutes Do Exist

I have been noticing lots of things around the Davidson campus recently, lots of good and lots of bad things. And it used to sort of bug me in a way, mostly because it seemed very—too—easy to categorize things (i.e., items, stuff, and doodads) into very simple categories: Good and Bad. But I have changed—come to my senses, you might say. Go ahead, say it. I have realized that yes, things can be as simple as they seem. Good and Bad Things exist in bounteous plenty at Davidson, and I would appreciate your help in helping me illustrate this fact. If you know or know of any Good or Bad Things, please submit them to the Davidsonian office (top of the Union) before Wednesday, 29 September, and we will publish the Best of the Good and the Best of the Bad. If it is a slow week for such items, stuff, and doodads, we will probably publish the Worst of the Best and the Worst of the Bad. We will see. I remain confident, however, that there are plenty of Good Things and Bad Things to be described. I can think of three even as I sit here.

Editor: Stewart Cauley
Executive Editor: Brian Butler
News Editor: David Resnik
Features Editor: Tom Pafford
Sports Editor: Steve Soud
Production Editor: Ann Meador
Photography Editor: Andy Scott
Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams
Calendar Editor: Ivy Goodman
Business Manager: Lentz Ivey
Advertising Manager: Jeff Danese
Graphics: Scot Myers
Editor Emeritus: Elizabeth Kiss
Foreign Correspondents: John Siman
Traveling Correspondents: Ant Goode

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone 704/882-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $10 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage no. USPS 148.300.

Staff: Lindsay Biddle, Bill Barnett, Duncan V. Fraser, Jennifer Gotto, Frank Hague, Thurston Hatcher, Joe Jaworski, John Verdi, Mark Elmore, Scott Huie, Jon Glance, Garry Sullivan, Rob Hollenbeck, James Rozzelle, Paulette Kurani, Anne Lambert, Laura McGee, Elodie McMillan, Matt Morris, Andy Wilson, John Hartman.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / September 24, 1982