Freedom of the Airwaves ©

Response to 4/9/82 Editorial:

WDAV has made the Davidsonian again, not only in a news article but as the subject of another Stewart Cauley editorial. The problem is that Mr. Cauley means well, but several erroneous assertions which he makes just prove that he hasn’t done his homework. My interest in WDAV dates to my junior year in high school and was an important factor in my decision to attend Davidson. I joined the student staff in the fall of 1978, after the station had raised power from 10 watts to 18.5 kw, and walked out with the rest of the student staff when the Trustees relieved the students of programming and administrative duties. I rejoined the staff as a paid classical announcer in March 1979, served as announcer-coordinator (chief announcer) from September 1979 to May 1980, and as Alternative Music Director from May 1980 to February 1981. Along with several other students, I helped to plan and implement the original alternative programming in April 1979. Further, though now employed by WLVV-FM, I am still a WDAV substitute announcer and keep in close touch with key personnel. I offer all this information about myself by way of saying that I have more than a passing familiarity with WDAV’s recent history and the way the station operates.

Mr. Cauley’s opening paragraph seems to imply that there is some connection between the reduction of student responsibility in 1978 and the recent programming cutback. There isn’t. In 1978 the Trustees were exercising their responsibility as holders of a federal radio station license to alter the programming and administrative organization to suit what they believed to be the public’s best interest. It is arguable that the Trustees did not sufficiently consider students’ feelings in making their decision; however, that is not the issue here. The latest programming change has nothing to do with the Trustees; Station Manager John Clark made the decision after consulting many people, including the student staff. Such a decision, by the way, is well within the purview of any station general manager or program director, and Clark had offered a warning in a staff meeting that some changes might become necessary. I had foreseen the problem even before then. The Alternative Music Director (AMD) has a multi-faceted job: he/she coordinates new albums, prepares playlists, and supervises the alternative music staff. The previous AMD had not lived up to my hopes—and, apparently, those of John Clark. Therefore, if Flipsides and Jazzsides were to continue, some sort of reorganization was inevitable. Further, as Production Director Jan Weller pointed out, 11:00 is indeed a transition time in most people’s living patterns. A format switch at 11:00 does make a bit more sense than one at 10:00. So the decision was not based strictly or even mostly on economics, contrary to what Mr. Cauley states.

Mr. Cauley also asserts that WDAV is “the only remaining alternative radio station in the state.” Not so; there is at least one more. The University of North Carolina possesses WXYC (89.1 FM), an entirely student-staffed alternative-music station. It programs predominantly rock (including substantial amounts of new wave) and also features jazz, folk, and bluegrass. Though its effective radiated power is only 400 watts, I have picked it up on at least one occasion here in Davidson. Under normal circumstances, it can generally be received clearly within a 15-20-mile radius of the UNC campus. OK, that doesn’t help us much, but it makes a road trip to the Hill that much more attractive.

Mr. Cauley asserts further that...“all other local stations are entirely commercial and automated.” Commercial in what way? That they play commercials? That their music is “commercial”? At least two high-power local stations, Charlotte’s WFAE (91.5 FM) and Rock Hill’s WNSC (88.9 FM), are noncommercial, either way one wishes to define the term. And automated? WLVV pays me to run machines, not to be one. When I am on the air, I’m very much alive. I'm sure other area disc jockeys feel the same way. Mr. Cauley’s most bizarre assertion, though, has to do with radio in general, “The public does not choose the music they want by buying it; rather, wealthy radio executives cooperate with wealthy recording executives, and together they decide which songs will be heard. These songs, the ones chosen by the executives, are the only ones heard and the only ones bought. And the executives always make safe, unobtrusive choices—never edgy, never innovative, always a sure pick for this artificial mass.”

I’m going with facts instead of speculation. Second, executives don’t decide which songs get played on individual stations. Even at stations programmed by consulting firms (and those are still a minority except for “beautiful music” stations, I believe), program directors and music directors are generally the ones who still make most of the individual decisions. Even schlock-rock WROQ, which runs the Burkhart-Abrams consulting group’s SuperStars (sic) format, has seen fit to play Elvis Costello, Graham Parker, and Jim Capaldi on occasion. Third, if those allegedly pre-selected songs are “the only ones bought,” why do record stores often sell respectable quantities of albums by “alternative” artists? In other words, where did the XTC and Gang of Four albums on my shelf come from if I didn’t buy them? And everyone has heard of one album or another that sold a million copies with little or no airplay, little or no company promotion, etc. Don’t knock the effectiveness of word of mouth—record companies certainly don’t.

Fourth, as for those “safe, unobtrusive choices” of songs for airplay: there is no such thing. Case in point: many people would consider WLVV’s musical format a perfect example of what Mr. Cauley is talking about. So, according to Mr. Cauley’s theory, since WLVV’s format is “guaranteed to be hits” by the record industry, and since WLVV is the only station in the Charlotte market running that particular format, WLVV should be leading the market and raking in money. I and everyone else on the staff should be getting kingly wages. In fact, WLVV has lost money since the day it went on the air, and it was sold last week. (See the “Extra” section of the 9 April Charlotte Observer for details.) Why? Because even today, there is still no accounting for taste. And, contrary to what Mr. Cauley might think, people do tend to express their tastes with their wallets, just as businesses express the tastes of their targeted potential customers by deciding with which radio station they will spend their advertising dollars.

I personally am probably a good deal more upset than Mr. Cauley with John Clark’s decision, because so much of my Davidson time has been invested in WDAV’s alternative programming. I would have liked to have none at all than to hear sloppily assembled programs. Further, and in conclusion, WDAV’s programming is not subsidized by any record company in any case. While I feel some...