Russian Comedy for Davidson

The Suicide continues this weekend

By TOM PAFFORD ’83

Semyon Podsekalnikov, unemployed and miserable because he cannot provide for his household, could rise above his comrades and shake his fist at the powers responsible for their miseries if only he would commit suicide. He doesn’t do it. Semyon, played by John Marks, is the main character in late Russian playwright Nikolai Erdman’s play, The Suicide, which opened last weekend in Hodson Hall. The play was written in the early 1920s and is set in that period, more than a decade after the October Revolution and the establishment of the Soviet Union. In the beginning of the play, Semyon feels like he has lost face because his wife is supporting the family until he can find work. Maria, his wife, fears that he will hurt himself and she enlists the help of Comrade Kalabushkin (Matthew Merrell) to diffuse her husband’s irascibility. Kalabushkin stresses to Semyon that life is beautiful, but by the end of their conversation, Kalabushkin implants the idea of suicide in Semyon’s mind. Kalabushkin spreads rumors, and Semyon, not yet resolute about taking his own life, is besieged by people who want him to commit suicide as a gesture for their cause. A banquet is planned for the next morning to honor Semyon’s suicide at twelve noon, but although he intends to kill himself, Semyon ends up dead drunk instead of dead. However, he feigns death, and in the last two acts of the play the spokesmen for the intellectuals, the lovers, the artists, butchers and whatnot haggle like vultures over who will get credit for Podsekalnikov’s suicide. In the end, Semyon crawls out of his coffin and addresses the crowd, pleading for his own life and beseeching his comrades to “allow us at least to whisper, ‘Life is hard.’”

The Suicide is billed as a comedy, but it is primarily what we see on stage that carries the humor; I found that the script by itself raises darker questions. Why does Semyon consider killing himself? Is it true, as Aristarch the intellectual says, that “Nowadays . . . only the dead may say what the living think”? Although Semyon eventually opts for life, that doesn’t disprove Aristarch. Semyon may just be faint-hearted. A general question pervades the play of who is truly a strong person. Erdman wrote humorously about a historical situation in which it was hard to “say” anything, even harder just to live, but it was necessary to do both.

The cast must convey both the humor and the seriousness of the play. Overall, they do a very good job of maintaining the energy and the continuity of the storyline. However, some of the subtleties of humor are lost by the timing, especially in the confusion of the banquet scene. It seems like the seriousness at the beginning of the play is lost amidst the humor, but this is largely the nature of the script. I think that the sobering final scene of the play is enhanced by the comedy because the characters are still fresh at the end and the play has not gotten maudlin. John Marks gives an energetic performance, enhancing the humor and the pathos of Podsekalnikov. Solid supporting roles are given by Aristarch Golashchapov, the intellectual played by David Barber, and by Raissa Filipovna, the lover portrayed by Roxanne Beckford.

I commend Eric Fichtner and Rupert Barber for designing a set that is elegant and which functions well on the small stage in Hodson Hall.

The Suicide is among the best major theatre productions I have seen at Davidson. The performance I saw was not astounding, but the acting is encouraging and the script very strong. I suggest you see it.

by Pat Donely '84