Davidson Students Attend El Salvador Protest

Thirty-three students and two professors from Davidson College joined 23,000 other members of the March 27 Coalition in Washington, D.C.
last weekend to protest U.S. intervention in El Salvador.

“The protest was definitely a success for Davidson,” said Davidson Coalition on El Salvador co-organizer Elizabeth Kiss. “I was pleased
with the large turnout and high interest.”

The group left Davidson Friday afternoon and spent the night at the Mount Vernon United Methodist Church that night. They
assembled for a rally at Malcolm X Park on Saturday morning and marched to Lafayette Square in the afternoon.

After listening to speeches in front of the White House, the Davidson party dispersed for dinner and an evening on
the town. They spent Saturday night at the church and returned to Davidson on Sunday afternoon.

Mark Barrett, Carol Loptson, Debbie Eisenbise, and Kiss supervised the Davidson protest expedition, but not without aid from their friends.
Mr. and Mrs. Kiss arranged for the group to stay at the local church and provided breakfast on Saturday morning.
Campus Chaplain Charlie Summers, the Women’s Center, and the College Union have also furnished a lot of support.

The protest itself was far from pleasant; there were long lines at the bathrooms, 40-degree weather, and a chilling breeze.
But Eisenbise enjoyed the feeling of community that developed in the Davidson Coalition. “It (the protest) was a good effort
because it brought students and staff together,” she said. Eisenbise also felt compassion for the crowd: “I liked seeing the
older people and especially the young babies.”

Elizabeth Kiss feels that the march has helped create interest in the El Salvador move at Davidson College. “Just seeing
our flyers sparks an interest,” she said.

Carol Loptson agrees, “You read about these things (protests) in the paper, but when people you know become involved, they
seem a lot more important to you.”

Like so many other events at Davidson, the El Salvador Coalition “sort of happened,” according to Mark Barrett. Last February,
Loptson, Barrett, and some friends circulated a petition condemning U.S. involvement in El Salvador. The list of names will be
published as an advertisement in the Charlotte Observer in the next few weeks.

After collecting 170 signatures and 177 dollars to pay for expenses, Loptson and Barrett decided that there was enough interest
at Davidson to form a Coalition on El Salvador. During the next few weeks, they held meetings in the Union,
viewed films, and entertained speakers. Over 80 people attended the March 15 showing of “Revolution or Death,” a documentary on
El Salvador. The protest trip to Washington marked the high point of the group's efforts so far.

After two weeks of hustling and planning, the leaders of the Coalition are ready to “regroup.” They are considering leafletting,
a letter-writing campaign, a teach-in at UNC-C, and a campus debate as possible future activities.

David Resnik ’85

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Editor: Stewart Cauley
Executive Editor: Brian Butler
News Editor: John Richards
Sports Editor: Steve Soud
International Editors: James Gelly, Dan Turk
Calendar Editor: Susan Graves
Photo Editor: Elizabeth Elkin
Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams
Layout: Jeff Herrin, Lisa Boardman, James Rozzelle, Gary Sladcik
Photographers: Anderson Scott, Randy Stroud, Neill Cooksey, Eric Long, Kelly Sundberg
Editor Emeritus: Elizabeth Kiss
Staff: Mark Sheffield, John Hartman, Lucy Everett, Jeff Holland, John Verdi, John Lusk, Lisa Buckley
Graphics: Susan Meyers
Advertising Manager: Karris Hernstein
Old Hand: Thriller

Published weekly during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: Davidsonian, Box 5000, Davidson, NC
28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Subscriptions are available at $25 per year. Advertising rates are available upon
request.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 2 April 1982
