) Record reviews with Jon Glance

The Blasters

Among the genres of music that have been grouped under the category "New Wave" is the rockabilly revival movement. Beginning
in England (where rockabilly never really died thanks to the teddy boys), the revival has produced a number of groups
including the Rockats and Matchbox. Perhaps the appeal this genre holds for New Wave fans may lie in the memories
it conjures of a time when rock and roll was a way of life and a real feeling, rather than
being merely the ponderous big business dinosaur rock had become by the '70s. Rockabilly, the primal scream of American rock
and roll, contains the spirit, if not the letter, of punk-youth energy and rebellion. For this reason, it is not
too surprising that a band which draws heavily on the roots of American rock would become popular in Los Angeles,
the new bastion for Punk (alias Hardcore among the skins).

What is surprising is that this band would be supported by such bands as X, and would appear on Slash
records (an underground independent better known for hardcore bands like Fear). It is also surprising that these bands would vote
the Blasters the best band in L.A. last year. Obviously, this is no ordinary rockabilly band. The Blasters distinguish themselves
by their excellence in their playing and by their faithfulness to their sources. The core of the band is two
brothers (Phil and Dave Alvin) who grew up listening to Robert Johnson, Carl Perkins, and Blind Willie McTell. Their music
today is derivative to be sure, but it is the music they grew up with and not merely a slavish
imitation of music from the past. The Blasters play, by their own definition, American Music. On this LP, their sources
range from Professor Longhair second-line shuffle to Hank Williams yodel to Chuck Berry twang.

The spirit of the album is captured in the opening song, which is called by one critic "the best song
Chuck Berry never wrote." This song is "Marie Marie/I got two weeks in back pay/There's gas in my car/And your
folks say I must go." The simple yearning of adolescent restlessness is so real in this song you can feel
it. Most of the songs on this LP deal with similar subjects—unrequited love and traveling. One of the best of
these is "Border Radio," which has a lonely woman requesting a song on the American border radio for her long-gone
husband, and hoping the dedication will bring him back to her. The directness of the lyrics captures feelings which might
be lost by more intrusive discussions of the subject.

The Blasters are more than just the best bar band in the world. They personally try to bring rock and
roll back to a day when the songs meant everything and nothing, and when the great escape was a man
and his car. It will be interesting to see if the Blasters can channel their eclectic memories to forge ahead
to a new sound. If not, they are at least a refreshing switch from the heartless, faceless rock too prevalent
today.

Booze Brothers

Yes, Spring Frolics has come and gone and if you weren't here, you missed it. We hope all you Davidson
men blew your money wisely, because the concert committee sure...didn’t.’ It's not that ‘we don’t like Southern Rock, but they
wouldn’t even play Free Bird. After seeing such a rousing performance Friday afternoon we were inspired to see that the
Davidsonian advertised White Animals at the Commons. We purchased our tickets, headed on down, but we never found them. All
we saw was some funk band. We figured they had to be the warm-up band, but they just kept playing,
so we kept waiting. Unfortunately, the funk beat followed us out the door and we were forced to hop in
the car and head south. We finally managed to shake the music somewhere between the city and I-85. We turned
off on I-85, hit 49 and stopped for a drink at Limerick’s.

Limerick’s, formerly known as The Mineshaft Too, is located two miles down from UNCC on highway 49. Believe it or
not, this place isn’t all that bad. It’s a large building with a restaurant upstairs and a separate bar below.
Liquor and beer prices are about average and the interior is spacious, providing ample room for even the average Davidson
co-ed (freshman co-ed, that is). The bar has been remodeled and provides a good setting both to sip a beer
and view the band from almost anywhere within. Tables and chairs are placed in a low-lit area near the stage
where one can conveniently leave his Davidson date and slip back for good times with the UNCC women (try the
far corner behind the ice machine, we found some hot ones there).

We happened upon an excellent three-piece New Wave band out of Charleston, The Killer Whales (not to be confused with
the Davidson field hockey team). The Whales are, as Charlie Lloyd puts it, “paced by a very hot but stone-faced
drummer who sports a Charlie Watts haircut.” Mr. Lloyd went on to add, “I hope to see this band do
an outdoor gig at the SPE house next fall.” We couldn’t agree more, Mr. Lloyd, as far as the choice
of bands goes, anyway.

Now, for you mud wrestling fans, we have received inside word of a 2 out of 3 falls challenge match
at Johnny Dollar’s. The match pits Janet Ward “the Crusher” Black, former Miss North Carolina, against Teresa “the Python” Strawser,
former Rhododendron Queen. In the girls’ own words, “This campus just ain’t big enough for two beauty queens.” Sam Spencer
was asked to referee the match, but refused, insisting he doesn’t know the girls, has never heard of such beauty
awards before and is unsure exactly how to find his way into Charlotte. A replacement is now being sought. We'll
have more details next week.

Disco Update: Was there one this past week? If so, we missed it. We were more concerned with Jimmy Hawk’s
(Booze Brother at large) and Rick Williams’s quest to drink 100 beers in 100 hours. They did it, but now
we can’t find them. They are believed to be armed with a Budweiser and extremely drunk. If located, please return
them to: The Committee on Alcohol Awareness c/o Lafferty House 423 N. Main St. or call: 892-2001. Operators are standing
by.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 April 1982
