PIRG: A Matter of Survival

To The Editor:

Another academic year has flown by and soon we will break for summer. Then, next fall, life at Davidson will
pick up again. But it is not that simple.

Davidson’s chapter of the Public Interest Research Group, an organization which for more than a decade has offered Davidson students
a chance to take an active role in community, national, and global affairs, is presently in danger of dying. Unless
some interested people speak up now, P.I.R.G. will not be back next fall.

Not many years ago, Davidson’s chapter of the national P.I.R.G. network was appealing to many students who sought a chance
to participate in numerous consumer and environmental projects and learn about contemporary issues. In those days P.I.R.G. consisted of ten
or fifteen students committed to a variety of projects including generic drug surveys, a feasibility study of a bottle deposit
law, a listing of available off-campus student housing, and the publishing of a booklet entitled “Guidelines for Tenants.” Members of
P.I.R.G. also participated in efforts to lobby the state legislative assemblies on these consumer issues.

As the school years passed, and a false sense of security swept across campus, the issues battered the lack of
interest. Davidson P.I.R.G.’s membership fell 50% and the degree of commitment of those involved was reduced.

In the past few years, we, the current members of P.I.R.G., have responded to the lack of people power by
reducing the emphasis on research. Although our final project last spring produced an extensive formal report on the energy efficiency
of Davidson's perimeter housing, we chose this year to concentrate less on this kind of work, and more on relaying
information and awareness about political issues to the campus and community.

This year, P.I.R.G. has sponsored such programs as a petition against Secretary of the Interior, James Watt; an informal meeting
with a plant manager from McGuire Power Station; a slide show and discussion on the Ku Klux Klan; and an
informative session on the Family Protection Act. All these events were well received and sparked important discussion and action on
the part of those who attended. P.I.R.G. can be and has been a vital contributor to the Davidson College community.

But the problem is this: P.I.R.G.’s core of four will be reduced to one next year. Due to the graduation
of two members and the departure of one for JYA, P.I.R.G.’s core will be Jennie Barnhardt, and she cannot and
will not do it alone. She shouldn’t be expected to, for an effective organization cannot justifiably be built around one
person. P.I.R.G. offers a number of opportunities to interested students. It is part of a statewide network that has chapters
on several campuses including Guilford and Duke. We have an extensive accumulation of information on many issues at the “PIRG
desk” and have further access to resources including staff members and lobbying groups. Carl Whitman, an NC-PIRG staff worker from
Durham, was enthusiastic during his visit last week about helping us. He mentioned that P.I.R.G. could aid in student-initiated independent
projects. In other words, P.I.R.G. can be a valuable resource on campus, but only with your help. We see P.I.R.G.
as a valuable educator whether in research, lectures, presentations, or political lobbying. P.I.R.G. helps to make people more aware of
the social, economic, environmental, and political issues that affect our lives. Davidson College P.I.R.G. is an organization that we would
like to have back next year and for years to come. Your positive response needs to be expressed to Jennie
Barnhardt (892-6119, Box 1821, or 892-6562 at mealtimes) by Friday, May 7 if P.I.R.G. is to continue to fill its
unique role at Davidson College.

Jennie Barnhardt ’84
Chris Gunn ’84
Geoffrey Little ’82
Jeanie McIntyre ’82

To the Editor:

We are ashamed of the lack of desire for political awareness demonstrated by the Davidson community in its sparse attendance
at the recent Julian Bond appearance. William F. Buckley’s packed audience was impressive. However, to fully understand various issues, we
should make every effort to understand their many perspectives.

An hour and a half out of a night may mean a few less points on a test, but Davidson
only lasts four years. After that we must face the real world.

Kenneth Pooley ’85
Roxanna Guilford ’85
Thurston Hatcher ’85

DAVIDSONIAN

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Editor: Stewart Cauley
Executive Editor: Brian Butler
News Editor: David Resnik
Assistant News Editor: John Richards
Associate News Editor: Jeff Mann
Sports Editor: Steven Soud
Opinions Editor: Danny Armistead
Calendar Editor: Susan Graves
Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams
Photo Editor: Elizabeth Elkin
Photography Staff: Randy Stroud, Kelly Sundberg, Anderson Scott, Mark Sheffield
Production: Lisa Boardman, Jeff Herrin, Ann Meador, James Rozzelle, John Lusk
Staff: Andy Wilson, John Hartman, John Glance, John Verdi, Jeff Holland, Dianna Bohrer, Peter Gulyn, Alessandro Vitelli, Debbie Eisenbise, Jeff
Hamilton, Matt Merrill, Elizabeth Smiley, Thurston Hatcher, Jim Troutman, Linda Hulburt, Scott Huie, Scott Beaver
Foreign Correspondent: Andy Miller, Chris Marshburn, John Stipp
Editor Emeritus: Elizabeth Kiss
Advertising Manager: Karis Hermstein
New Blood: Mark

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 April 1982
