The Suggestion of Figure
Jeanette Oliver’s steel artistry
By STAN HYNDS ’83

For the past four weeks, three free-standing works of sculpture by North Carolina artist Jeanette Oliver have been in Chambers
Gallery. The works are made from strips of scrap steel welded together and painted black. In a telephone interview, Ms.
Oliver discussed her art. Her first artistic medium was painting, but she shifted to sculpture when she became interested in
piecing together ordinary objects in an assemblage-like manner. When she turned to wood materials, Oliver’s work took on vertical qualities
that are also found in the metal sculptures exhibited in the Gallery.

Oliver began working with metal because of the greater flexibility that comes with welding pieces together, and she also achieves
greater linearity because metal is more easily manipulated than wood. Oliver’s first metal sculptures began as pen-and-ink doodles. The production
of her work now, however, has little reference to preparatory drawings. When she begins a piece, she works primarily from
an idea of the size, structure, and linearity she desires for the finished work. Within the limits of that idea,
she makes whatever intuitive changes are necessary to complete her artwork.

The three pieces in the Gallery appear completely abstract. Oliver suggests, however, that they possess a figurative element. Their size
and the character of the lines and shapes suggest a human presence, although there is no literal human association. No
legs, arms, or heads exist in the sculptures. Only the suggestion of a subject and object figure exists by virtue
of the size and gesture of the works. Oliver acknowledged the human figurative suggestions of the sculptures by naming them
Huascar, Amaru, and Paullu—names from Peruvian Incan royalty. She began using the Incan titles when she was working with wood
and her sculptures reminded her of warrior-like figures. Oliver stresses, however, that titles are essentially for identification purposes and too
much should not be made of what the title “means” in relation to the sculpture. Rather, Oliver thinks that her
sculpture should be allowed to speak for itself.

Oliver was influenced by several sources. Of primary importance to her work is Pablo Picasso’s painting of the late 1920s.
These pictures, in a somewhat surreal style, possess linear qualities and an ambiguity of figures similar to Oliver’s own sculpture.
Other influences that have affected the artist include American painters Jackson Pollock and Franz Kline, and Japanese calligraphy. Owing to
its line use and colorlessness, the calligraphy and the work of Kline quickly refer to the metal sculpture. Oliver also
readily admits the influence of metal sculptor David Smith.

Aside from personal influences, did Oliver’s education in art play a role in her development as a sculptor? Education, Oliver
thinks, was important to her (and to artists in general) because it provided the tools and exposure necessary for her
to gain her footing. She asserts that school helps the artist learn the language of his work, but that it
does not provide the reason for creating art. Oliver’s sculpture has been exhibited with prints from the collection of the
College, but her exhibit will be removed 15 October. Hurry.

Record Reviews with Jon Glance

The musical form known as reggae has diverged into numerous styles in the last several years. Music as slick and
accessible as that produced by Third World and Black Uhuru has coexisted with the more roots-oriented dread and dub of
Big Youth, Burning Spear and Matumbi. This second style has also spawned the precursors of AmericanRap music with the “toasters”
who tote their sound systems on flat-bed trucks through the Jamaican hills and chant their thoughts over the echoed riddims.
Some famous toasters are Scotty, Scientist, Clint Eastwood, and Yellow Man. Linton Kwesi Johnson is an English poet who emulates
the sound of these Jamaican artists, but with a more sophisticated rap: Johnson’s lyrics stem from his tortured, evocative poetry.
Linton Kwesi Johnson’s roots lie in Jamaica, where he lived until he was eleven, but his concerns lie in the
West Indian boroughs of London, such as Brixton, Lambeth, and Shepherd’s Gate. An ex-member of the Black Panther movement, he
has been awarded a fellowship as writer in residence in Lambeth and has published three volumes of poetry since 1975.
The songs on this LP are primarily these poems chanted in a bleak, lethal monotone to the accompaniment of a
very dread dub riddim—the sound is very sparse and stark, without the horns or female vocalists usually found. The vocals
are rhythmic if not exactly lyrical, which is appropriate for the urban battleground described in the songs. Unlike many reggae
singers, Johnson doesn’t concentrate on ganga and JAH, but instead on the fratricidal, self-destructive fighting in the slums. The characters
in the milieu of this album are more likely to be hit by a broken bottle or be picked up
on Suss than to celebrate the glory of JAH. If all this sounds rather dismal and pessimistic, I’m afraid it
is. There is such an emphasis on the war and madness, however, that the effect is to transcend the pessimism
into a heroic world of near-Homeric proportions. The sheer scope of the dread draws the listener into hypnotic, sinuous songs.
A good example is the description of the blues dance crowd in the title song: “. . . Night/Black veiled
night is weeping/Electric lights consoling/Night/A small hall soaked in smoke/A house of ganga mist/Music blazing sounding thumping fire/Blood/Brothers and sisters
rocking-stopping-rocking/ . . . Electric power of the red bulb/Stain in the brain with the blood flow/And the bad bad
thing is blowing/Ganga crawling creeping to the brain . . .” This is an approximation of the rhythmic stream of
conscious flow, with slashes for the caesura between thoughts. The isolated words reinforce the oblique descriptions, and the songs generally
stress Night and Blood and Burning. Johnson’s poetry is often political in nature, usually criticizing the repressive colonial bigotry of
the right wing. He is just as likely, though, to criticize the killing of black by black (as he states,
“Fratricide is only the first phase/. . . but when you see your brother’s blood just flow/Futile fighting and you
know/That the first phase must come to an end/And time for the second phase to show”). The general feeling is
that the life of the people he sings about can be changed only by education and force, not by Rastafarian
faith. The quality of this album is very good, but it is sure to arouse deeper feelings than the average
pop album—more intense than perhaps the average listener wants. The music is threatening and real, overwhelming and bleak. But it
is also exhilarating in its power, and the music presented is definitely first-class reggae. It’s no mistake that Dread Beat
an Blood won the Village Voice award for best reggae album. Try this album, and take a walk on a
very wild side.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/15, October 1982
