Mark B. Phillips
Tommy Peters Award (athletic spirit) —
Ray C. Sinclair
Rebecca E. Stimson Award (women’s award for athletic spirit) —
Emmy J. Knobloch
George L. Gladstone Memorial Award (to an outstanding rising senior) —
Gordon A. Turnbull
Charles Malone Richards Award (for contribution to religious life) —
William P. Seel
Agnes Sentelle Brown Award (to an upperclassman of outstanding character) —
Kenneth J. Krieg

The following awards were announced at last Friday’s Convocation ceremonies:

Sandy Black Memorial Award (to the most outstanding senior premedical student) —
Eric A. Weiss
David Halbert Howard Jr., Chemistry —
Edgar W. Harlan
Presser Scholarship (outstanding music major) —
Cynthia A. Clark
A. K. Phifer Award (for distinguished record in economics) —
Edgar W. Whitesides
Jefferson Davis Award (for constitutional law) —
Neil Cooksey
Bremer German Language Award —
David M. Rowe
Thomas D. Sparrow Award (for contribution to intercollegiate athletics) —
James M. Hall
Susan Roberts Award (outstanding senior woman athlete) —
Sarah A. Tomlin
James Baker Woods, III, Memorial Award (to a rising senior ROTC cadet) —
Harry R. Easterling
George C. Marshall ROTC Award —
John M. Shaw
Daniel Blain Woods Award (to senior premedical student exhibiting qualities of a good doctor) —
Debra E. Freeman
Richard Ross Memorial Music Award —
Joan L. Redding
William G. McGavock Mathematics Award —
Mark B. Phillips
Tommy Peters Award (athletic spirit) —
Ray C. Sinclair
Rebecca E. Stimson Award (women’s award for athletic spirit) —
Emmy J. Knobloch
George L. Gladstone Memorial Award (to an outstanding rising senior) —
Gordon A. Turnbull
Charles Malone Richards Award (for contribution to religious life) —
William P. Seel
Agnes Sentelle Brown Award (to an upperclassman of outstanding character) —
Kenneth J. Krieg
Omicron Delta Kappa Teaching Award —
Dr. David Shi (professor of History)

David Resnik ’85

CROP WALK THIS SUNDAY

The fight against world hunger will be held this Sunday, April 25. Registration will begin at 12:45 p.m. in front of Chambers, with the walk starting at 1:00 p.m.

Last year’s walk raised over $1,000 for CROP, which is the Community Hunger Appeal of Church World Service. CROP works in more than fifty countries including the U.S., helping to support established hunger relief efforts with food, money, and technological aid.

The CROP Walk will cover a ten-mile course out to the Lake Campus and back. There will be three checkpoints along the route. Walkers will solicit pledges per mile of the walk. Anyone who wants to walk and does not have a sponsor envelope, or who would like to sponsor a walker and hasn’t already, should contact Gordon Turnbull, 6409. CROP is sponsored in Davidson by the Y Student Service Corps.

El Salvador Teach-In

The Davidson Coalition on El Salvador, regrouping from their protest in Washington, is showing a free film, the Academy Award Nominee "El Salvador: Another Vietnam?", in the Chambers Gallery at 10:00 a.m. and the Morrison Room at 2:00 p.m. today.

The group is also co-sponsoring a teach-in with UNCG’s “Alternatives” group in the UNCC Friday Building from 10:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. tomorrow.

For more information call Mark Bart at 892-4682 or 892-6562.

New Grade Scale Receives 2.1

After weeks of kicking around various grade scale proposals, the EPC has finally come up with what sounds like a reasonable grading system. However, if the grading scale has to be changed, the 0.0 to 4.0 scale is not the solution.

According to the EPC memo to faculty and students, this new system has at least three advantages over the current grading scale.

1. The grades reported are also grade points. No conversion is needed.
2. A wider range of grade options is provided for those wishing to have this.
3. Student grade-point averages should remain approximately the same.

All of these points sound fine at first glance but upon closer inspection they appear useless and, in a sense, counter-productive.

The first point, that no conversion is needed in this new system, is worthless. Sure, it’s nice to see your G.P.A. on the upper right-hand corner of every humanities paper, but surely most Davidson students can convert a B plus to 3.5 or a C to 2.0. Even if you made a D (1.0) on your Math 25 final, just take a look at the bottom of your report slip from Dr. Burts to find your term grade of C (2.0). Instant conversion is not much of a plus or a minus for this new system.

The third point, that G.P.A.’s will remain “approximately” the same, is also worthless. This point isn’t an advantage. Because the new system will not change G.P.A.’s doesn’t mean it is better. Of course, a new grading system should keep G.P.A.’s the same.

The second point of a “wider range of grade options” is the most curious. What’s the difference between “3.9”, “Excellent”, “4.00”, “A”, and “96”? Instead of seven different grades, as provided in the current system, this new grade scale will provide 34 different ways for a student to be evaluated. There may not be much difference between a 3.8 and a 3.9 but, you can bet, come exam time, that a .1 will make a difference. It’s one thing to provide a better way of student evaluation and another to encourage hyper-grade consciousness. It’s bad enough having students who squabble over B’s and B pluses, much less 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, or 3.7. This kind of picky grading encourages interest in good grades, not good academics.

Overall this new grade scale receives a 2.1 on the proposed system. (That is, a “Satisfactory” label, 2.7 on the numerical scale or just a C on the current system.) Not particularly good marks for a school that prepares students for grad school. At least a 3.0 is needed.