What’s All the Frat About?

Davidson Professors’ Ideas on Fraternity Life

Fraternities are somewhat like stocks; their value fluctuates over time, they merge, split, and sometimes even go bankrupt. To one
who is unconcerned, the stock market has ostensibly very little impact on day-to-day life. Yet, indirectly we all feel the
effects. The Davidson fraternity system is not totally unique, but it is a different brand than the type found at
the typical generic State U.

What role do fraternities play on campus? What interests and concerns do they generate? Do fraternities animate or exacerbate the
already sagging social situation? Is a true sense of fraternity promoted by the 4 on-campus and 2 off-campus fraternities? These
are not the types of questions which loom ominously over our collegiate careers like the placid but ponderous faces of
the chambermaids. But, in recognition of certain sentiments toward changes in the system, they might prove as springboards toward a
more rounded awareness of life at Davidson.

Many students and professors and administrative personnel do not especially care about the past history of Davidson fraternities. I have
chosen (perhaps erroneously) to interview professors in order to gauge the perceptions and/or misconceptions of Davidson frat life. I found,
generally, most professors very willing to talk, although some were hesitant to commit themselves wholly to an opinion. Many spoke
out with conviction. Many were quite non-committal. I expected both reactions.

I shall preserve the anonymity of the 13 professors I spoke with. This is not a statistically significant indication of
any consensus of opinion whatsoever, but rather simply as a collage of interviews. The following smattering of opinions is simply
an attempt to raise the student’s consciousness as to the professors' consciousness of the situation.

What changes have you observed in the Davidson system? How is the Davidson fraternity situation different from other schools at
which you have taught or attended?

The major change I've seen right now is an awakening of interest in fraternities. I’m not sure that’s a good
thing or not. It might mean a return to an exclusive, clubby type of a system which does have a
certain place in the social scheme.

I haven’t seen much change since I’ve come here. I can’t say that it appears that they’re becoming more active
or substantial, or having that much more dramatic a profile.

Self-selection is the obvious change that we all know about.

Self-selection is, of course, a different phenomenon. Self-selection breaks down much of the political aspects such as rushing. The fraternities
I had contact with were the very old-fashioned ones from back in the 19th century. Much of it was kind
of barbaric, but provided a sense of solidarity for having survived such horrors.

Self-selection... the fact that all students should have the option to select any house they want. The difference is how
they select members. I’ve been a little concerned lately about a movement back to primary selection.

I was a student at a small college with fraternities but no sororities much like Davidson, and I think fraternities
play much the same role—they provide a social life. But they also provide elitism and segregation, but I don’t think
it’s as bad as what I’ve seen at big schools where the campus is polarized on the Greek dimension.

Well, I guess the system’s a little more volatile now.

I really wouldn’t understand why it wouldn’t be.

I don’t know.

You’re talking brotherhood in a co-ed institution. You also have to think of the college as a community in and
of itself.

I don’t see any evidence of that. Fraternization? I think there’s some of that.

I think it promotes the opposite. True brotherhood comes from welcoming all who want to join. But I don’t think
it’s the nature of man to be like that.

Do you care?

I’m not aware.

I don’t follow it that much. The most contact that I have is with IMAC.

Will Rogers once said, “All I know is what I read in the papers.” All I know is what I
read in the Davidsonian.

Very little. I get invited to some fraternity parties—they seem to me all alike. By and large it doesn’t touch
me. The issue in the abstract is one I spend little time thinking about.

I’m sometimes concerned when the parties start on Tuesday night.

In those situations where what goes on in fraternities affects the life situation of the student and their ability to
participate in academics, then it certainly is important.

Some fraternity activities have inhibited me in ways I don’t like—road tripping. When students come and ask for a special
dispensation from papers being due because of a road trip I object because theirs is not a system which I
participate in and haven't bought into. Most of the time, however, I don’t care because that’s the student’s life.

Do you think we need sororities at Davidson?

Well, I think it would stand to be the same as with fraternities. It may be that women students need
to have a social group within which they can discover and hold close, intimate relationships... but for that reason, I
guess, we have female social clubs.

No. It would tend to segment the student body more. I’m not a particularly strong supporter of fraternities but they
are here and have been a feature in the past.

Absolutely not.

I would prefer it if people would see their lives and values in such a way that neither frats nor
sororities would be a part of that picture.

I really see no absolute need for either.

Continued on page 12

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 7 May 1982

11
