Speculative Notes from Bo-Ho

While attending Monday night’s wonderful performance of the Muir String Quartet, I was possessed of a particularly virtuosic bit of
idle speculation. It was of the kind that is just right for times when one is sitting still and using
only one or two senses. The muse took this form (paraphrased, of course): What, in good compare and contrast fashion
(having had two years of Humanities), are the differences in the demands made upon various genres of musical performers?

These musicians soon divide themselves into two species. One is all of those that are lumped under the term “classical,”
hereafter referred to as “serious” musicians due to the technical inadequacy and narrow scope of “classical.” The other group is
all those who perform music of a less technical, academic variety — the rock and rollers, the bluegrassers, the earnest
and sincere guitarist-songwriter types. These we shall call “regular” musicians. Of course, we must bear in mind that regular, like
classical, is imperfect, but basic semantics must be established.

Let me say here that I wish in no way to make light of the dedication and self-discipline that it
takes to become a serious-type musician. But have you ever thought of the kinds of things that a regular musician
has to come up against in his performances that never need cross the minds of their classical counterparts?

To begin, serious musicians are allowed, even expected, to have their music in front of them, Lisztophiles aside. Assuming that
a musician is able to read the darn stuff, which serious musicians always are, having music right there would be
really nice. But can you see Joni Mitchell dragging her music stand and pages around with her? Some charm would
no doubt be lost.

Not only does a regular musician have to do without concrete reference material, but he is often in a position
of having to play and sing at the same time, which mixes not only diverse physical demands but necessitates two
lines of memory and stimulus-production.

Add to this the headaches of technological tyranny. Electronic feedback, short circuits, collapsing microphone stands, blown fuses, and incompetent sound
engineers must be faced by the regular musician with alarming regularity. Not so with the serious. No one asks them
to subject their lives to the vagaries of electronics. Consequently, one hears reports of those that have gone to see
Segovia in one of those huge halls in Madrid, and developing ear strain that affects them for the rest of
their natural lives. These technical problems extend even to the tuning and maintenance of instruments. We all love to begin
an evening of serious music consumption by listening to the orchestra tune up. If the performances are a quartet or
alone, we think nothing of hearing them twist pegs, suck reeds, and rattle valves between movements or even phrases. The
doggone winds never go out of tune anyway! And what about those brasses? If a folk singer were to spit
on the floor the way a trombone does,

DAVIDSONIAN
The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Editor: Stewart Cauley
Executive Editor: Brian Butler
News Editors: Jeffrey Steele, Elizabeth Elkin
Sports Editor: Steve Soud
International Editors: James Gelley, Dan Turk
Photo by Elizabeth Elkin '85he would be back in Little Rock flipping burgers in no time. Regular bands are rarely
so patiently dealt with in this regard. Not only do they have to get back in tune in a hurry
— they usually feel obliged to make jokes and be clever while they are going through their twisting, turning, and
listening. This usually results in a lot of foolish one-liners like “Well, shucks. It was in tune when I bought
it.” This brings on the topic of audience relations, which will be dealt with momentarily.

The great Nicolo Paganini was almost as famous for his flamboyant ways as for his superhuman violin playing and composing.
His frequent breaking of strings was taken as a sign of unleashed power and unbridled passion for the music. Not
so for the others. When the urgency of that situation is not one of romantic exuberance, but of getting the
damn string replaced before the joke ends.

The most interesting aspect of this polarity is that of to what degree the performer must relate to his audience.
Those musicians of the serious persuasion are not expected to try to create any rapport with their audiences. They know
that their patrons will sit attentively and quietly, that they will not leave until the end, that they will applaud
appropriately, and that they will not show any displeasure, no matter how mediocre or just plain bad he may be
up to a point. After all, we don’t have Music 121 for nothing. It is rare that these performers must
worry about flying projectiles. Hah.

Not only must regular musicians court and keep their audiences, but they must also bear barrages of requests for songs
they hate, keep one eye on the door (to make sure more people are coming in than going out), and,
in particularly bleak instances, keep the other to the skies. Fight your way through a bass solo on “Grandfather’s Clock”
with beer cans falling out of the lights some time and you’ll relate.

Finally, what of the appearance of the performer himself? If a serious musician or composer looks a bit extreme, it
is attributed to his eccentric, artistic detachment from the temporal. Liszt’s dramatic profile and Beethoven’s flying hair are now trademarks
of their genius. If, on the other hand, a popular (regular) performer looks like a goofball, it only means that
his hype men will have to use some visual advertisement other than photos of the performer to sell him to
the public. While the regular musician must deal with variables of hair length, dress, and demeanor; and make the right
choices, the serious music player needs only a dark suit or tuxedo. And of course his music stand.

Perhaps most interesting of all this tradition is that none of it has anything to do with actual music.

By John Hartman ‘82

Photographers: Anderson Scott, Randy Stroud, Neil Cooksey, Eric Long, Kelly Sundberg
Staff: Mark Sheffield, John Hartman, Lucy Everett, Jeff Holland, John Verdi, Anne Goodwin, John Krotchko, John Lusk, Lisa Buckley, Ivy
Goodman
Graphics: Susan Myers
Advertising Manager: Karis Hernstein
Old Hand: Killer

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 29 January 1982
