Opinions

Linking ad ta Sass laine tongrce with the sagacious words of Van Beck and go beyond into a not so
subtle rejection of some ideas emanating from the mouths of professors. What prompts this article is not the turbid logic
of John Siman nor Elizabeth “call me pollyannish” Kiss’s distorted and groundless view of the diabolically imperialistic U.S. of A.
No, what really hit me was the acerbic attack on President Reagan.

I thought I would go to the Ones Gelso last Wednesday to hear realistic policies for dealing with caese Govenin
coseol tad arveioe, Lak:

ican oe eeu the, Dect at cote: dah technology to the South. Students of Dr. Ortmayer’s fall seminar-ar

seaniriye LE a irtt ke

Tam ta about

dream of the third world called the New Economic Order (NIEO). Students of the senior economics session also know, after
listening to Dr. Behrman, that the NIEO is totally unrealistic. We still hear it from the mouths of our professors,
though, and some of you, ensconced in your little hermetically-sealed world away from the world, take it all in.

A critical point to the NIEO is the distrust of free market forces to solve many problems in the third
world. Judging by Professor Hess’s emphasis on the transfer of resources, brought about by our “desire” to reduce our standard
of living and our strategically dangerous volition to cut back defense spending while the Soviets arm inexorably, I trust he
also enjoys aligning President Reagan with famine and starvation.

The problem is, capitalism works, universally. It is no coincidence and certainly only marginally attributable to race (I refuse to
believe in Übermenschen) that the highest growth rates have come in countries that have taken the capitalistic road to development.
In similar geographic areas, there are cogent examples: the Dominican Republic grew at an average seven percent in the 1970s
while Jamaica’s growth rate fell -.7%. I hope you can guess which is socialist and which is capitalist. Other examples
abound; the Ivory Coast versus Ghana, etc. In all cases where economic freedom is allowed, everyone, rich and poor, has
become absolutely better off in comparison to those being dragged under by the chains of socialism.

Professor Hess’s attack is much more insidious, however. President Reagan is not showing the leadership to help these countries. This
assertion does not stand the test of truth. The U.S. gives more food assistance to developing countries than all other
nations combined. The U.S. provides as much official development assistance as any other nation. Contrary to statements made, the President
is for free trade. The U.S. imported one-third of what developing countries exported to the industrialized world last year, even
though our market is only one-third of the size of the total industrialized world. These countries in the last two
years have earned more from exports to the U.S. than the entire developing world has received from the World Bank
in the last 36 years. The agreement on Tariffs and Trade that focus on reciprocity. Some of the most awesome
barriers to free trade are present in the developing world, Brazilian tariffs on

Reagan’s “lack of leadership,” as Professor Hess phrases it, shows us his review of and failure to conclude the Law
of the Sea treaty. The President is in favor of the treaty but will not permit the forced expropriation of
technology as envisaged in the “Brazilian clause” of the treaty dealing with deep sea-bed mining. The U.N. agency in charge
has, under present treaty wording, the right to demand the transfer of privately owned technology to third world competitors as
a condition to gain access to minerals on the deep sea floor.

If logic and Adam Smith serve me correctly, I cannot envisage a U.S. company investing in a long-term and expensive
venture if it knows that that technology can be forcibly transferred to its competitor. His interest in the technology is
not to sell it but rather to have a competitive edge. If a lack of leadership is a sign of
disapproval of risk incentives to invest, I am all for this “lack.”

I am indeed appalled that there are people (professors and students alike) who distrust what has worked for us, Japan,
Taiwan, and thriving third-world countries. People against the marketplace, what do you want? We are not against aid but it
must not be used to help the governing elite get richer as has been often the case, rather, it must
serve as an ancillary function to trade. We can hardly spare one percent of GNP at a time when our
own problems are so great. Professor Hess said he did not want to sound too idealistic. I detected Pabst gog
7c seer remarks. Professors at Davidson, remarkable answers! Students at Davidson, understand the real world!

Bill Bargman

Creative hair styling for men and women.

Owner/stylist: Jane Schenck
157 E. Rocky River Rd.
892-5107 by appointment only

WOMEN:
YOU NAME IT — WE'LL STYLE IT

NORTON'S

MAIN STREET

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, February 1982
