David Lyons' Folk Corner

I must first apologize for some mistakes in last week's music. In the third measure of the second line, the first note should be a "C" natural. In the last measure on that line, the dotted quarter note should be a dotted half, and it should not be an "E" but rather a "G". In the second measure of the fourth line, there should be no dot, as there appears to be. Sorry about that, and I'll try to keep the copy more accurate.

This week's consideration is style. Style is the way you do things. A particular style is determined by the way the musical elements (e.g., rhythm, tone quality, articulation) are handled. Most categories of music refer to style. The terms "classical", "blues", "old time", "bebop", etc., may bear the marks of specific time periods, but more importantly, they are names of styles.

This column deals with folk music. That term in its broadest sense takes in music from every culture in every location of the earth throughout the entire history of humankind. Here we are concerned with the considerably narrowed realm of American folk music and its British Isles heritage. Yet even this portion of the world's folk music is rife with styles ranging from regional Irish fiddle styles to old time and bluegrass music in America.

There is only one way to learn music, and that is to listen and play. That is also how we become aware of style. If you wish to understand folk music better, listen to as much live and recorded folk music as you can. You will hear both bad and good, and hopefully, through much attentive and critical listening, you will separate the bad from the good and make your own choices better and better.

If you don’t have your own recordings, ask some folks; there are bound to be some nearby. In our area, there is also tremendous opportunity to hear live folk music—at fiddler's conventions, dance events, and play togethers. To foster contacts with music, I will be including an events list with this column.

Here is my message: We, the musicians, must be aware of the style with which we play. This is not to say we should be bound to any existing way of playing. Some take the extreme and reject all existing styles and strike out on an "original" one. That is not for everyone, either. Whatever one plays, however, deserves thought and attention as to what it is (its style), where it comes from, and where it is going.

This week's tune is an Irish jig entitled, "Merrily Kiss the Quaker's Wife".

EVENTS

Every Monday: American and English Country Dancing with live music. Beginners welcome: 8-10 P.M. at the Belmont Park Methodist Church near the Krispy Kreme in Charlotte. $3.00.

February 26-28: Rehoboth County Dancers Dance Weekend. Traditional English and American dances. Live music and a storytelling workshop. $15.00 for the weekend or come Friday or Saturday night for a reduced fee.

If you want more information or have something to contribute, get in touch with me at 892-1323.