Off to best start ever

Soccer Wins Observer Tournament, Hosts App State for Probable SC Championship Wednesday

By MARK ELMORE ’82

It’s bright under the distant lights. Players run wildly about after nearly 110 minutes of frantic play; the coach is
hoarse and still screaming at the officials and players. Everyone is tense: the crowd twists and shouts whenever an offensive
advantage appears for either team; the sideline is etched with teammates sitting and standing, jumping and yelling, then crouching and
cursing. Suddenly, the overtime ends and the motion stops. Everyone is expended but still tense. There is no winner and
the ominous tie must be somehow resolved. But how?

“The shootout,” someone answers. What is that? you wonder silently. A picture flashes into your head of the Western gunslingers
facing each other on a dusty yellow road between the Saloon and Hotel. Reason quickly negates that idea, but a
foreboding sense lingers just the same. Hmm... shootout. The word is powerful and it’s making you nervous.

Meanwhile, the referees place the ball 35 feet from the goal and the two goalies “limber up” at the field’s
end. Players from both teams mill around in the center of the field and then one is singled out to
face the opposing keeper. The enemy is going first. He is short and quick and dribbles toward the goal, shoots,
and hits the net behind our diving keeper. Now it’s our turn and we miss. The gunfighter image pops into
your head again. We’ve been hit in the side. We’re bleeding. They go again but are smothered by our goalkeeper.
We go. Miss. They go twice more and are smothered again by our super-charged keeper and our next two men
rifle shots that find the mark. The tension explodes and players and fans storm the field.

What an exciting game for the Davidson soccer team. This was the final game of the Charlotte Observer Tournament at
Memorial Stadium against Winthrop College. Monday night Davidson whipped Belmont Abbey 2-0 to make the finals. (UNCC was the fourth
team in the tournament.) Junior goalkeeper Pat Woodward played two phenomenal games in the tournament and absolutely floored both the
teams and fans with his amazing ability to pounce on shots during the shootout. The team’s defense does not end
with just Woodward either. Fullbacks Dan Blood, Wallace Goodman, Jim Wright, and Bill Wahl have allowed only four goals in
seven games. (Personally, I think that they should have been used to keep the Israelis out of Lebanon.) Davidson’s defense
has never been finer and is the main reason for the team’s jubilation.

Not only was Wednesday night’s tournament victory over Winthrop one of Coach Slagle’s chief objectives for the season, but it
was also the first time Davidson has beaten Winthrop, who is consistently ranked among the top teams in the South.
And believe me, it feels so good to beat a rough bunch of shin-hackers. Also, the soccer team stomped the
Hampden-Sydney Hampsters (Hampsters may not in...Fact be the school nickname, so we’ll just pretend) 3-0 last Saturday. Todd Lambert, Chris
Roberts, and Jim Wright all scored again, but more importantly, I did too.

By MIKE TANTILLO ’86

So, you have had the shakes and have been in a cold sweat since the NFL players strike took effect.
I know, you watched every minute of the Green Bay-New York game telling the Lord you would never cuss again
if only the strike was not real. Well, it is real and America is without her favorite team, the Cleveland
Browns; but do not despair just yet because there is a Sunday afternoon alternative—Davidson Club football. Although they do not
have Brian Sipe and Dave Logan, they do have the next best thing—Chip Fishback and Ben “Hands” Williams.

The club gridders are off to a 1-0 start after soundly defeating Clemson 8-2. After a defensive battle the first
half, Clemson took a 2-0 lead into the half. The Davidson offense, however, came out on fire in the second
half. The only touchdown of the game came when Buck Bradberry scampered into the endzone untouched in the fourth quarter.
Fishback hit Ben Williams for the two-point conversion. The defense was superb on two goal line stands. The defensive line
of Jim Crowe, Minor Henson, Jack Cobb, Doug Henson, Craig Detwiler, and Philip Gordon could only be described as “rocks.”
The game ended with a nail-biting drive by the Clemson Tigers, but the rocks denied them on the 4-yard line.
Freshman Bob Carr had two interceptions, a touchdown-saving tackle, as well as a good punting game, all of which prompted
older brother Dave to say, “He is a part of the Harrel’s Academy tradition, a dominant force in North Carolina
football.”

The club football team takes the field again this Sunday at 2:00 against the “Hapless Appies” of Appalachian State on
the practice field.

I really didn’t care about the goal being called back, though. I just kind of slipped in accidentally when I
was crossing it. I won’t take garbage. I want a real goal. You’ll see. Sometime. I hope. We still have
12 games left. Overall, the team’s record is 5-0-2 since the tournament victory over Winthrop goes down on record as
a tie. The shootout only determined who won the tournament. That means that we haven’t been beaten. Yep! Undefeated. Don’t
worry, the team is too humble to get cocky. Except for maybe Hall Barnett and me. Better throw in Mike
Mauzé too.

This Saturday at 11:30 (not 11:45), the team plays Florida International University. Unfortunately, they are one of the better Division
II teams in the country and are coached by old Davidson coach Karl Kremser. Kremser wants to destroy us, but
remember—we've got a defense that can repel an Israeli invasion. All we need now are some goals.
