West Virginia Bo-ho

I spent a few days last summer in Berkeley, California, perhaps America’s most highly acclaimed den of iniquity. It was
at this point of an 8,000-mile, five-week ‘round country trip that I decided to roll my Woodie Guthrie, Hunter S.
Thompson, and James Dean fantasies all into one. This is about that.

I set out one morning down one of those hills for which the San Francisco area is so famous: dressed
in fatigues, carrying my guitar and copies of The Koran, One Hundred Years of Solitude, and Tristram Shandy. I felt
I had as good a p.r. potential as I could hope for in my descent into the world of counterculture.

Not being terribly excited about the idea of dragging a sixteen-pound guitar all the way down Telegraph Street to my
projected place of street-musicianship, I started walking backwards down the hill, thumb raised existentially.

Something told me that thumbing a ride in Berkeley would be easy, and I wasn’t far off. But my chauffeur
was more than I was really prepared for. A Volvo careened madly onto the sidewalk where I was and was
narrowly missed by the maniac that had been bearing down behind it. Naturally, there was so much stuff in this
lady’s car that there wasn’t even room for me, much less a six-string extension of my personality. But we managed,
and when I said that I was glad that the nut behind her hadn’t cleft her in twain she related
that she hadn’t dug him in her mirror, so it didn’t put her through any changes. She was about thirty-five,
in Indian print skirt, black leotard, and those little soft black shoes that folk dancers wear. Apparently, she had come
out for the Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test and to catch the Jefferson Airplane at the Fillmore East, and somehow lasted
to see U.C. become a prep school for corporate America.

My fuzzy friend let me out in front of Rasputin’s record store, advising me to really get into my Berkeley
experience. After assuring her that I would, I looked for a place to set out my open guitar case and
sing da blues. The sidewalks there are about twelve feet wide, to accommodate all the vendors, bagel sellers, prophets of
doom, and whoever else needs space. I chose a spot between two guys who were doing a pretty brisk trade
in leather masks and two women selling the ever-popular hand-tooled belt buckles. These types of psychedelic craftspersons manage quite well
in Berkeley. I think the computer analysts and marketing/management trainees that attend the university these days are willing to support
those gentle unwashed who are keeping Gonzo alive and well in Berkeley so that the executive generation won’t have to.
As I thought these thoughts, I noticed that the nickels and dimes weren’t exactly pouring in. People were friendly enough
and some stopped to listen, but it became apparent before long that most felt that if they were going to
support the organic crowd, they were at least going to get something material for their expense (“Oh man, you won’t
believe this outrageous thing I found in Berkeley”).

Well, I was starting to feel pretty Jack Kerouacish when this long, tall individual in platform shoes, fishnet nylons, and
a mini skirt, not to mention a patently unfeminine distribution of bulges, came loping along. My bohemian princess laughed and
strolled on, but she was good for 8¢. So I turned my attention to the beard and dress. Well, this
newly arrived vision of androgyny was about the most enthusiastic fan I was to have all day. He danced, clapped,
beat rhythm (more or less) with a rock in a coke bottle, and sang in broken syllables, some of which
reminded me of the last experience I had with a bottle of Red Rocket. He was accompanied by a small
male child of about four, who wore nothing except the rubber band that held his hair in what would have
been a ponytail except that it pointed straight up. I never heard the kid say anything, but he seemed happy
enough. He was probably getting more parental (or whatever) attention than the average modern suburban moppet does anyway. The older
of these two also pushed a shopping cart which held, besides some miscellaneous junk, several plums. He put one of
these in my guitar case, I thanked him and he shot me a bird, laughed, and left. I was later
told that he is locally known as the hate (or haight) man.

As the day wore on, I actually collected enough pennies, nickels, dimes, plums, tracts, and calling cards to cover the
price of a ticket to see the Jerry Garcia Band that night. I figured this sort of hand-to-mouth-ism was certainly
commensurate with my lonesome rambler-type intention. So I went down to the Keystone Theater on University Avenue where I met
the real gone woolly boogers I was after. The first guy that caught my eye seemed like he might have
come down one time too hard or too many. His hair hung greasily in his weird eyes, and he kept
running his fingers through it like he was looking for unwelcome tenants. Since swaying burnouts are nothing new, my attention
was drawn to a boy no older than fifteen, who was sawing out exquisite arrangements of old Grateful Dead songs
on a cello. Between the music, stickers, tee shirts, and general principles (primarily $8.50 a piece), everyone there was doing
his own homage to the great Garcia, the Patron Saint of Long Hairs, whom we had gathered to see. I
don’t think anyone was disappointed.

I didn’t finish The Koran, but it was a day to remember, in a mauve and cream sort of warm
beery way.

John Hartman

photo by Eric Long ‘83

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 8 January 1982
