Strangers in a Strange Land
Japanese, Pakistani, and French students muse about the down-home life
BY FRED BROADWELL ’83

This week The Davidsonian had the pleasure of talking with several of the one-year international students here this year. These students, from countries as varied as Japan, Pakistan, and France, have found many elements of the small, southern, liberal arts life and the American college system to be quite different from the systems to which they are accustomed. Following are some of their observations about Davidson, their home countries, and their reasons for coming here to study.

Andrés Sanz-Alvarez is from a small town outside of Madrid and has been studying at the massive University of Madrid. He learned of Davidson from other students studying in Madrid, who introduced him to Professor Kemp, a Davidson Spanish professor. Sylvie Adenis and Marie-Renée Michel from Montpellier, France, and Bettina Schneyder from Marburg, West Germany, found out about Davidson through Junior Year Abroad students. Jaiki Desai from Delhi, India, Masaya Momiyama from Hyogo, Japan, and Ambreen Fraser from Lahore, Pakistan, made contact with Davidson by meeting a faculty member at their schools who knew of Davidson’s scholarship program.

Attaining fluency in English is a prevalent reason the students cite for wanting to study in America. “In Biology all of the textbooks and new research are in English. It is a great advantage to know the language,” says Bettina. Andrés hopes to teach English in a Spanish high school and Sylvie wants to teach French in America. Ambreen intends to go to graduate school in America. “I want to get a PhD in Psychology, and in Pakistan they don’t have that,” she says.

When asked about the academic atmosphere of Davidson, their reactions are mixed. Sylvie says, “I like the academic pressure here. People can be very lazy in France.” Some of the others, while agreeing that the pressure forces Davidson students to get a solid education, feel that the academic pressure is excessive. Ambreen says, “There is a much more pressurized way of life here. In Pakistan we do more social activities because we have the time.” Jaiki admits that here he often gets into a frenzy when a deadline approaches, but that in Pakistan “people generally have a good time the first and second semester until the exams at the end of the year. Students here work more regularly.” Both Andrés and Bettina do not like the trimester system because, they say, ten weeks is too short a time to cover a subject.

One of the international students’ favorite things about Davidson is the friendly atmosphere. Masaya, who studies at the University of Tokyo, has attended lectures with more than 600 students. He likes the more intimate relationship students and professors have here. Since the idea of a college campus is relatively unknown outside the United States, most of the students find living on the campus of Davidson a new experience. Marie-Renée likes this small college atmosphere because it facilitates getting to know people. Ambreen agrees with her, saying, “Davidson is a very good place to begin studying in America because everyone is friendly and you don’t feel left out.” In Spain Andrés must commute two hours a day to attend classes in Madrid. He says, “I didn’t participate much in student life there; I like the smallness of Davidson.”better.” The Honor Code is also very popular with the international students. They are impressed by the Honor Code’s success at Davidson, though they do not believe the system would work elsewhere. Bettina Schneyder (West Germany), and Marie Renée (France) sit in front. Andrés Sanz-Alvarez (Spain), Yu-Chien Wen (PRC), Emma Howard (England), Shirin Hanafi (Pakistan), and Maria Nicolaides (Cyprus) sit on the second row. Sylvie Adenais (France), Jakai Desai (India), Ambreen Fraser (Pakistan), Masaya Momiyama (Japan), and Melis Nicolaides (Cyprus) are giving back row smiles. Sylvie comments that “in France I was not brought up to trust everybody... here everyone trusts each other.” The biggest surprise for them was that they could leave their doors unlocked. They also like the idea of self-scheduled exams.

How does the social life at Davidson compare with that of colleges in other parts of the world? Many might not know that in Pakistan, for instance, alcohol is illegal. Ambreen comments: “Here at parties the students stand around and drink. This just doesn’t happen in Pakistan.” Dating is also forbidden, although groups of guys and girls may go out in groups together. This, says Ambreen, triggers the need for arranged marriages since “boys and girls just don’t get to know each other well enough.” In Japan, says Masaya, the social life centers around extra-curricular groups, such as musical groups or sports teams, which function almost like fraternities. In Europe, the cafés and bars provide much of college social life. Marie-Renée likes the system here better; “the fraternities are very active and organized.”

Commenting on other differences between Davidson students and students of their own country, the international students see some deeper contrasts. Bettina notes that Davidson students preoccupy themselves less with politics than German students. In Germany, she says, “we speak of politics like they speak here of house beautification. It is not such a big topic here.” She also believes that “students here are more career-oriented while in college. German students wait until they graduate to cut their hair, get jobs and be like everybody else.” Ambreen and Andrés cite the wealth of the students in Davidson as something that is hard to ignore. Ambreen comments that in Pakistan “the poor are very poor and there are many class distinctions. A car is a necessity here but a luxury there.” Andrés adds, “at Davidson most of the students are very well fed.”

Jaiki notes that his country is very spiritual and religious; here they think about God mainly on Sunday, he says. Jaiki also feels a stronger sense of freedom and ability to be one’s self at Davidson than in India. Finally, Masaya, commenting on Western influence in Japan, makes this telling statement: “The first place I felt at home in the U.S. was at McDonald’s.”

HEALTH PROFESSIONS SCHOLARSHIPS

If you're planning a career in medicine you owe it to yourself to find out about the Air Force's Health Professions Scholarship Program. Qualified U.S. Citizens can receive scholarships for medical or osteopathic school. Our scholarships include:
- Tuition
- Required Books
- Required Lab Fees
- Required Equipment Rental
- and More Than $550 Monthly Stipend

USAF Health Professions / 919-755-4134
100 Navaho Drive, Raleigh, N.C. 27609