Culture Shock

“Culture Shock” is a common traveler’s cliché referring to surprising and unexpected differences in the way people live and act
in various parts of the world. In my life, (yes, this is a graduate speaking from vast experience) I’ve felt
it more often within the U.S. going from one section to another than in foreign travels (see my thesis on
file in the Center for Education Misfits at the charming Carolina Inn), except for a brief week in East Germany.
After all, to be shocking, something must be unexpected, and foreign countries are supposed to be different! The following are
quotes which at various times have left various Davidsonians here in Kenya in various states of speechlessness.

“He wasn’t there, so I left a message with his wives.”

“If Americans are so rich, why does a family all live in one house?”

“What is the average size of an American farm?” (440 acres vs. 1.4 acres in our area)

“Of course I beat my wife. If I didn’t, how would she learn to be a good wife?”

“How could Carter just agree to stop being the President?”

“How many brothers and sisters do you have?” “Two hundred.” (thinking) “He must have misunderstood me.”

Later, at the market (sharing the joke): “Some little boy told me he had 200 brothers and sisters!” “Oh, that
must have been the son of Chief Bitinyu.” “You mean...” “In fact, I think there are more than that. Let’s
see, the first wife has sixteen...”

“Is it true that anyone can buy a gun in the US?”

“How do you say ‘egg’ in your mother tongue?” “Egg.” “No, no. In our mother language it’s anakhuli. What do
you say at home?” “Egg. English is my mother tongue.” “You mean you use English at home.” “Yes, even my
grandparents speak English.” “No! You mean you only have one language!”

“What kinds of food do Americans eat? What is your staple food?”

“The Americans went to the moon so that when they start a nuclear war, they can run away and leave
us here.”

“What happened, sir?” “I got my hair cut.” “You mean your hair grows?”

“If Americans are so rich, why do they only marry one wife?”

“Do witchdoctors in your area also use leopards?”

“Bwetete, come and meet our visitor.” “Ah! It’s a gigantic baby!” (Black babies are born white before their pigment darkens)

“You mean your mother has a machine that washes the clothes?”

“Do you use grass or corrugated iron sheets for roofing at your place?”

“How much money did you spend to come here?”

“Is it true that in an airplane you can’t swallow any water?”

“If I went to America, would I have to be a slave?”

“Why do Americans keep on making atomic bombs?”

“When I am married, I want to build a magnificent house with windows and five rooms!”

“How do Americans celebrate Christmas?”

Andy Miller ’80

Traveling City Style

I ride the bus to work every day, but not before waiting out in the cold for at least 15
minutes. There is no...way to make it right on time. If I try to time it just right, I am
always outguessed by the coachman and must wait at least until I am miserable with cold; if I come 5
minutes late, the bus comes 20. A no-win situation either way, so I stand on the corner and talk to
schoolchildren or money-conscious businessmen. The seats on the bus are cold vinyl and crammed so close that pygmies couldn’t fit
in with some of the riders I’ve seen. It’s not considered a bus either, but a coach—I notice the decal
every morning—manufactured by the Detroit Coach Co. They’re crazy to put their name on this crate but I guess that’s
why Detroit is going down the tubes anyway. I also notice the way everyone is referred to as a “rider”
and not a passenger. Passengers ride cars, trains, or planes; anything that implies even meager comfort. Riders are a little
more sporty. Bronco riders, or death riders at the state fair. So I should correct myself and say that I
am a coach rider—I don’t simply take the bus to work every day. Initial board fare is 60¢ (cheap when
the thrills are considered) and geriatrics get a discount. The coach company feels if they are zesty enough to challenge
“The Coach,” then they should get reduced rates; it also promotes the overall good feeling between the geriatrics and the
coach company and keeps the lawsuits to a minimum. It’s hard to do any real reading on the way since
there are so many people to look at. I wonder how much coach riding B. F. Skinner did in his
younger years; but, then he probably rides now since he qualifies for reduced rates. I wondered this morning what an
outsider would think about the human race if he rode a coach. So many people sitting so close, touching each
other, bumping each other, even reading each other’s newspapers and nobody saying anything; they sit there with iron necks and
stares as cold as the morning. I want to stand up and shout “Wake up, wake up, it’s a cheery
morning,” but I don’t think anybody would do anything. The coach would probably drown me out. You know, they put
the sides on with hinges and use tape to keep in the windows. No, tape would muffle some of the
sound wouldn’t it? They use staples. So the silence won’t be so unbearable, they install, in Detroit no less, engine
amplification systems. Thirteen tweeters are mounted on the ceiling and who knows how many woofers under the seats. Stick your
head inside a gym locker and get your friend to beat on it with a stout mallet, and you will
know what accelerating up a steep hill is like on board a coach. Gracious, I’m almost to work and I
haven't even described the fragrance the hog next to me is wearing: a bit saucy, a bit sexy, it’s seductiva!
The new fragrance for overweight riders. Put a dab on each cheek and drive the rider next to you wild!
Turn close seating arrangements to your advantage and never leave the coach alone.

by Mark Elwib
