Sports - Wildcats Triumph in 35-22 Thriller

The way Homecoming is supposed to be

BY SCOTT HUIE ’85

It was the way homecoming games are supposed to be played—one could call it good old-fashioned hardnose football. Even with a starting quarterback sidelined with injury and a backup who had taken just 12 snaps from scrimmage this season, the Wildcats triumphed in a 35-22 thriller over the Quakers of Guilford College last Saturday to the delight of 4300 fans.

With quarterback Keith Martin out, the Cats’ offense relied almost exclusively on the run. Replacement QB Jeff Haney played like a veteran, handing the ball off 71 times as Davidson racked up 403 yards on the ground. In what he called “the best game of my career,” Leonard Walker turned in a stellar performance, gaining 191 yards on 21 carries. Shunning any individual accolades, the senior halfback said, “What it all boils down to is hard team work every week. We’ve had a few disappointing losses in the past few games but still have just tried to improve steadily each week. And in this game, things really came together. Everyone pitched in. When our quarterback (Jeff Haney) went down, the freshman (Jay Poag) stepped in and did the job.”

What the freshman did was run the longest play from scrimmage for the Wildcats this year. With just four minutes to play and hanging on to a precarious 21-15 lead, Poag replaced Haney, who had sustained a hip pointer earlier in the game. Bootleg right was the call, and with instructions only to run, Poag tucked the ball under and raced 74 yards down the sideline for the score. Head Coach Ed Farrell said, “I just told him to forget the pass and run with it all the way.”

I was approached by several members of the soccer team and their coach on Tuesday night after their match against Pembroke State. They seemed a bit apprehensive and I soon discovered why. The soccer reporter, Mark Elmore, is also a player—a vainglorious player—so every article that he writes is centered on his performance, his feelings, and his inabilities rather than the team’s.

The victory seemed certain until the Quakers got the ball back. The Guilford quarterback, who had a field day tearing up the Wildcat pass coverage for 338 yards, struck immediately with a 58-yard touchdown pass completion to pull them within six. With two minutes to go, the Quakers regained possession. But on their third pass attempt, freshman free safety Kevin Hutchinson intercepted the ball at the Davidson 38-yard line to stifle the threat. Two plays later, Walker provided the icing on the cake, breaking through the left side of the line and sprinting 66 yards for the score and the win.

Prosperity, however, did not reign early on for the Wildcats. On the first Guilford possession, the Quakers drove almost at will, beginning on their own 30-yard line and finishing in the Davidson end zone. But early in the second period, fullback Bob Miller, following 14 straight running plays, bolted up the middle for a five-yard touchdown plunge and a 7-6 lead. Miller scored two more times, one coming just before halftime to put the Cats up 14-12 and the other ontheir opening third quarter drive of 85 yards. Guilford’s other two scores were a second quarter touchdown (set up by a 79-yard pass completion) and a third quarter 25-yard field goal. Said Farrell, “Guilford has always come at us with an intelligent offensive scheme. But when you give up 338 yards through the air, you’ve got to be concerned with your pass defense. Offensively, however, this was definitely our most consistent performance.”

The quarterback situation, despite impressive showings last week, is desperate. Martin remains doubtful, and Haney is questionable. Therefore the starting role may fall into the hands of inexperienced Poag, who is more comfortable kicking 40-yard punts. Tight end Mark Blackman, a quarterback in high school, will take snaps in practice, just in case.

Tomorrow the Cats travel to Orangeburg, South Carolina to take on I-AA powerhouse South Carolina State (3-2), who defeated previously unbeaten J.C. Smith 21-6 last week. The Bulldogs, who just last year finished third in the nation in NCAA Div. I-AA, sport one of the stingiest defenses around, allowing just three touchdowns all year. Offensively, the Dogs play-action pass a lot and feature all-American fullback Anthony Reed. Despite its admirable performance last Saturday, the Cats will have to peak both offensively and defensively to have any chance to win. State has had special team problems, so Davidson might make a big play there. But by playing its first road game yet, the Cats will no longer have their partial fans nor the familiar terrain of Richardson Stadium.

Huie’s Prediction: S.C. State 26 Davidson 7

Leonard Walker ran for a personal record 191 yards in Saturday’s win, including a 66-yard TD play.

Elmo Scores; Plimpton Interviews Davidson ranked ninth in South

By GEORGE PLIMPTON, nonstudent

Since the reporter scored Tuesday, and I take it for granted that everyone has already heard since he has had four days to strut around campus, the team asked me at least to help him with the article so that it might be controlled by someone that understands the necessity of journalistic responsibility. The reporter wasn’t quite as cooperative as I had hoped and allowed me to write the article only under the condition that it be an interview. The following is my interview and this week’s presentation of soccer news.

Plimpton: Elmo, I understand that you finally scored Tuesday.

Elmo: Yes, George, against the mighty Braves of Pembroke State.

P.: Wasn’t that the eleventh game of the season?

E.: Well, yes. Why do you ask, Georgie?

P.: No reason, really. It just seems a little funny that it took you that long to finally “put it in.”

E.: No, it doesn’t. I’m more team-oriented, that’s all. I like everyone else to score and get the glory. You see, there’s a long stream of altruism that goes way back in my family; it all started...

P.: Cut the crap. Tell me about the game.

E.: Sorry, when we get started talking about me I get so excited. Just tell me to shut up if it happens again. Hum, oh yes, well we won 5-0 and played per-

THE DAVIDSONIAN/15 October 1982