Rests

_Back row: Alessandro Vitelli, Adam Duncan, David Osborne. Front row: L to R, Alexandra Ehrmann, Emma Howard, Hester Abrams, Tracy Corrigan.

Rusk scholars speak out

‘The ‘Davidson Experience’ from top to bottom

The seven Rusk scholars from England are nearing the end of their stay at Davidson College. Herewith the transcript of a discussion on the “Davidson experience.”

Has anyone come to any conclusion as to what they think of their experience here?

—Probably the best holiday I’ve ever had.

—Sue Ross told us “you're here to enjoy yourselves, but remember you’re meant to do some work.”

—The main reason I’m working is that if I don’t, it'll mess things up for next year’s group. Personally, I'm not worried about my grades.

—Very public spirited of you.

—I’ve enjoyed myself, I’ve had a really great time, what else can I say?

—I don’t think we’d have got half as much out of it had we been at a big college.

—I like the intimate nature of the small campus, a real community spirit.

—I’m sorry, my brain simply isn’t functioning... What's been the best part of Davidson?

—The fact that it’s like an extended holiday. What we're enjoying isn’t necessarily the Davidson way of life.

—Because there’s no pressure on us to work flat out, we can take our time, look around and consider Davidson in an essentially non-academic light.

How about the friendships you’ve formed here? Is ten weeks long enough to get to know people?

—I don’t think I could have possibly met more people in ten weeks anywhere else.

—You go through a phase when you’re just meeting people on a purely superficial basis—up to the first four or five weeks I didn’t know anyone except on that basis, then after that there were people I just saw more of.

—One thing that strikes me is how people will say “How’re you doing?” or “What’s up?” and they don’t expect an answer.

—I’ve got as friendly as I can with anyone in ten weeks.

When we first got here, it was alright being a novelty, but it became a bit wearying, having to answer the same questions.

—I don’t think you can object to that.

How about Davidson institutions? Are they going to have an effect on you when you go back to England?

—The idea of the Honor Code has impressed me. We can’t take our books into tests, we can’t cheat, we can’t sneak notes in on paper, so, well it looks as if we'll have to learn it.

—Here, if you’re caught, there’s much more stigma attached to it than there would be at home, which is probably why it works.

—But the element of trust that’s everywhere is really nice.

—It’s totally new to me. In England, we’d lock the doors because we expect someone to go in there and steal something.

“In England we lock the doors because we expect someone to go in there and steal something.”

—I’d feel guilty if I locked my door here.

—Let’s stop hitting each other.

What do you think of the fraternity system?

—I like it. I think it’s a great way of bringing people together at all levels.

—It’s not that I find it childish, but I can’t believe how seriously they all take it.

—When you arrive, you’re told all about the fraternities having labels, and the awful thing is that it’s true! How can they bear to be so... categorized?

What have been your favorite social activities, official or unofficial?

—I loved Hattie’s Night. I really enjoyed it. I’m very into weightlifting... carrying you home.

—Band parties have got a bit boring.

—The music is predictable...

—Except at F & M, with the British music, and ATO where everyone danced...

—And Skip Castro.

How about the drinking?

—The beer is kind of... insipid.

—Seems to work, anyway.

Does the fact that Davidson makes itself known as a church-related school have anything to do with your experience?

—I have to be careful of what I say, so as not to offend people, religious-wise.

—It hasn’t intruded upon my life.

—I do feel I have to be careful of what I say, so as not to offend people, religion-wise.

—I noticed when I got here that few people swear...

—It’s easier for men, but when I swear...

—Shock.

How about sport?

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 7 May 1982