A Compromise For The Falklands

On Friday morning, April 2, 4,000 Argentine troops invaded the British territories of the Falkland Islands and defeated, with only
one fatality, the 80 British marines stationed there.

The Falkland Islands are situated in the South Atlantic some 300 miles from mainland Argentina. There are two islands and
about 200 islets and rocks in the total area of which is 4,618 square miles. The islands are mostly bare
rock and moorland with few trees; strong winds, gales, and rain sweep the islands for nine months of the year.
In this inhospitable climate live 1,800 persons and 600,000 sheep. Hardly a place to start a war over, you say.
But then, there’s the oil...

The ownership of the islands has been in constant dispute since their discovery in 1592. Within their history, the islands,
and their fishing rights, have been claimed by the British, Spanish, American, and Argentine, and colonies of people from many
and varied nations have been established there. It was not until 1833 that the British managed to occupy and hold
the islands; they did so by simply turning the present Argentine colony (a convict colony) out. The British have held
the islands ever since with continuing complaints from the Argentine government.

To the outside world, the recent invasion came as a surprise. Those who had heard of the Falklands were probably
aware of the historical dispute over ownership but were probably not aware that the dispute had flared up in the
more recent past. For the past 15 years Argentina has been negotiating with Britain over the islands, but Britain used
what the Argentines describe as “evasive tactics.” From 1976-81, Britain and Argentina had no ambassadors in each other’s capitals due
to disputes over the Falklands, and in February the breaking point came when the British refused to comply with Argentina’s
request for an agenda for future talks (interestingly enough the same request refused by the British in 1833). Three weeks
ago, a party of 12 Argentine scrap merchants landed on South Georgia with a contract to dismantle a disused whaling
station, but they arrived without immigration clearance. Diplomatic talks then began, as the British sought the removal of these invaders
from their property. The real invasion came on April 2, and was an easy, and almost bloodless, victory for the
Argentine who captured Falkland, South Georgia, and Sandwich Islands. The island’s governor and the 80 British marines on the island
were sent to Uruguay the next day.

The British position was stated succinctly by Margaret Thatcher in a special Parliamentary session on Saturday: “The Falkland Islands and
their dependencies remain British territory; no aggression and no invasion can alter that simple fact. It is the Government's object
to see the islands are free from occupation.” The British took immediate action by freezing Argentina’s financial assets in Britain
(valued at $1.5 billion, one quarter of what Britain is believed to have at risk in Argentina), imposingother economic sanctions,
and dispatching two-thirds of Britain’s naval strength to the Falklands with an unspecified, and probably undecided, plan of action. The
Argentine position was stated by their Foreign Minister to the United Nations Security Council on Saturday: “Argentina has borne with
the continual usurpation of its territory by a colonial power for 150 years.” The Falklands affair “is a colonial issue
in the most classic meaning.” The repeated theme was liberation from this colonialization. The British, of course, claim they have
a duty to protect all of their subjects and cannot simply hand citizens over as pawns in any dispute; it
is all a question of honor that they maintain their contract. Whether the islands were obtained lawfully or unlawfully by
the British, the present Falklanders are mostly of British descent and would probably choose to remain British citizens considering the
reputation the Argentine junta has for not respecting human rights. The British appear to be presented with a fait accompli,
and perhaps if they were willing either to hand the islands over (but then, of course, stamp collectors would suffer)
or negotiate peacefully for them, bloodshed could be avoided. If the British insisted on fighting, it would be the islanders,
the very people the British seek to protect, who would suffer most. There is of course the oil. The discovery
of oil in the waters off the Falklands was the prime reason for Argentina’s renewed negotiations with Britain 15 years
ago. The oilfields are expected to provide up to 2 million barrels a day when developed—not something for either country
to take lightly in their current economic positions. There are two things at stake here—financial assets and national pride; it
is impossible to say which factor is dominant. A war would certainly inject a much-needed national feeling in both countries.
The Argentine junta, having put down the terrorist activity of the '70s, is having to deal with an increasingly restive
population, extreme poverty, and inflation of more than 100%. Britain has 12% unemployment, gloomy prospects, and a restless opposition party.
A good war would certainly stir national blood. The solution probably lies, as usual, in a compromise. One possibility would
be a long-term contract enabling the British to withdraw their citizens and their assets gradually from the islands leaving them
totally in Argentine hands by some distant date, and the oil royalties will be split between the two countries. In
this way financial assets will be shared and national honor salvaged on both sides.

Ant Goode (Ant is an international student from Surrey, England)

Complete Prescription Service

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
“Serving Davidson For Sixteen Years”
131 N. Main Street
Davidson, N.C. 892-0208
Cosmetics • Sundries • Greeting Cards • Russell Stover Candies

Copeland House Galleries
Main St.
posters, prints and frames. Also check our selection of art supplies. Great Sales Always

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9 April 1982.
