“Beach Ball”

Walk into any athletic department and ask the director (the grave man behind the massive desk) what it takes to field a winning team in college sports today and he’ll have the answer quicker than Greek’s knee goes up on a save. He will undoubtedly reply, “Money.” Money, money, money, the sure way to win. Buy players, buy coaches. Hell, buy everything! The college sports scene is truly capitalistic with one unrecognized exception: the Davidson soccer team.

In 1977 the team was 0-16. This year Charlie Slagle piloted the team to a 13-9 overall record with a 6-2 Southern Conference record good enough for second place. But here’s the amazing thing: The team did all this with nary a scholarship nor a real increase in the budget. Clearly, the team wins on heart and sheer love for the game, not superior talent.

Much of the credit goes to second-year coach Charlie Slagle. Don’t think we’re the only ones noticing all this, either: Slagle was chosen Southern Conference Coach of the Year. His enthusiasm for the team greatly influenced its performance.

Coaching alone does not produce winning teams, however. The 1981 edition of Wildcat soccer was laden with talent in several key areas, especially defense. Senior goalkeeper Mike “Greek” Iordanou earned first-team All-Conference honors for his steady play in the cage, and senior sweeper Terry Greiner made the second team. Dan Blood and Brian Hamilton played stellar defense as well, but the all-SC voters neglected them.

On offense, sophomore Chris Roberts was again the crucial cog in the Davidson machine as he tallied 10 goals and 7 assists for first-team honors. Senior Chuck Price and sophomore Peter Burr were offensive keys as well.

The team has an even tougher schedule next season, with several top teams coming to Davidson. The Wildcats will have SC power Appalachian State in their sights, and if they gun down the Apps, they’ll be looking for first place.

by Steve Soud ’84 and Elmo '82

---

Roulette and Davidson: No Second Shots for the Cats and Three Resulting Losses

Basketball

On the surface, Russian Roulette doesn’t have a whole lot to do with basketball, but if you dig a little deeper, a slight resemblance can be seen. Each is a game of shots, and in each case, the more often you “pull the trigger,” the greater your chances of scoring.

That’s what Davidson basketball came down to this week—second shots. When they had them, they couldn’t convert. But most of the time they didn’t, and the lack of second shots was actually suicide.

Against Marshall, it was a last-second second shot that killed the Cats. After battling back from an 11-point first-half deficit to close the gap to four at the half, Davidson came out ready to go. Coach Hussey had told junior guard John Carroll to add a little scoring punch, and he did as he sparked the Cats to a comeback early on in the second half. Cliff Tribus adjusted his bomb-sight and couldn’t seem to miss, so Davidson jumped its lead to seven.

The turning point came when Charles Jones blocked a Jamie Hall shot. The Herd gradually sliced basket after basket off the lead, and with 0:14 left, Kenny Wilson stood at the line with two foul shots in his immediate future. He had to make both to tie.

The pressure wasn’t too much for KW, though, as he pegged both to tie the game at 65. Marshall inbounded successfully, dribbled the clock down, and with about 0:05 left took the shot.

The ball fell short, but second shots came back to haunt as someone missed their block out and a Cow (I figure the singular of Herd is a Cow) scored the easy basket for the game-winner.

The Cats hosted East Tennessee Saturday night, but not only did a scarcity of second shots kill them, but a lot of second-rate shots did their share. The Cats finished a miserable shooting performance at only 39.4%.

Blocking out was nonexistent, as the Bucs dominated the boards. The Cats sparked every once in a while, but much like an engine with a few dead plugs, they couldn’t sustain a comeback. The Bucs took the game with points to spare, 69-59.

Monday night the Cats played an extremely well-prepared UT-Chattanooga team. The Mocs are defending champs, and they’re off to a good defense with no Conference losses.

The Cats didn’t execute well, and for the most part, the Moccasins knew where Davidson players were going. The Mocs opened a sizable lead at the half, and although Davidson threatened early in the second half, an 18-4 spurt killed Wildcat hopes. The Mocs cleaned up with a 71-55 win.

Tomorrow the team plays the Fighting Irish in South Bend. The Irish are horrendous this year, but tomorrow’s is their first home game in quite a while, and they’re just looking for someone to trounce. It should be a close game.