1982: It is 1982, and while conditions are better than at any other time in American history, there is still a definite race relationship problem here at Davidson College. Davidson flirts dangerously with self-imposed segregation. Black and white students go to class in the same room and eat in the same cafeteria, yet most manage to avoid any interaction beyond superficial chitchat. Integrated but separated, like oil and vinegar separated in a bottle that hasn’t been shaken. Our race relationship problem at Davidson is not one of negative interactions, but one exemplified by the lack of interaction. Our social separation can no longer be blamed on laws, but only on our own attitudes towards accepting our integral but separate social relationship.

Even on college campuses, where the civil rights movement received support, the racial gap is growing wider as students and administration remain satisfied with current integrated but separate social conditions. And if you haven't noticed, there is a race relationship problem here at Davidson College. I’m appalled at how ineffectual I am in interacting with Black individuals. One Friday night at the Community Center, I was politely rejected and isolated at an open BSC party this past fall. I felt like an uninvited guest who came dressed inappropriately to a private party. I’m sure some blacks have felt the same way at ‘white’ parties. Blacks and whites even managed to remain basically separated from each other when Julian Bond visited Davidson as the first Martin Luther King Jr. Lecturer. Yet we are complacently satisfied with this gap within the student body.

During the spring term, I have worked at the Davidson Community Center organizing two hours of activity for forty black children. From my experiences at the Community Center, I have gained an understanding of who I am and how I relate to a group of people who are different from me. I have realized how white I am. White in the sense that I live secluded in Davidson, and when I step out, I carry what I represent. I know little else but my upper-middle-class suburban culture. I’m not only unaware of different cultural traits, but also of the prejudices and feelings and thoughts black people may have about me because I’m an unknown white. More ironic is my ignorance of my own feelings and my inability to handle my hangups.

I looked into a ten-year-old’s angry dark brown eyes set in a black face, and I couldn’t fathom what he was thinking and feeling. I returned the gaze with the same defiant stare, and we walked away, both of us confused and uncertain. Because of my work with black children, I have learned about my ignorance, fears, and prejudices that I would have otherwise never known if I hadn’t become the minority. I’m not proud of my ignorance and prejudices, but I don’t continually blame myself for them.

Fraternities are still turning prospective members away because they are black. White students are alienated and ignored at ‘open’ Black Student Coalition parties. I myself was politely rejected and isolated at an open BSC party this past fall. We all harbor stereotypes and reactions to different people and situations. When we allow these prejudices to become roadblocks to positive, active relationships, we need to take time to understand those people and our own feelings about them. We need to span our gap of fears, ignorance, and inexperience by contacting the unknown. My subtle conflict with the young black on that Friday night at the Community Center was good for this reason. By interacting, we bridged the gap and made contact with each other. We learned to look into each other’s eyes and see we are both humans with fears and feelings. The uneasiness and confusion we felt has become an acceptance for each other as we meet each Friday night to play basketball and argue whether the ball was in bounds or out. Slowly we’re accepting each other’s differences and are more able to talk and play together; he in his own distinct dialect and manner, me in mine. And his dark eyes set in a black face and my blue eyes set in a white face are no longer a roadblock to our relationship. Our uneasiness occurred not only because of our differences but because of our inexperience in dealing with people different from ourselves. If whites and blacks are to break down the wall of uneasiness, we must interact and learn to be at ease with our differences.

I’m happy if you don’t feel you have any prejudices or problems in our relations with a different racial group. But I wonder if that’s because you’ve never had to interact closely with them. I don’t know of any solutions for our racial problem at Davidson, but I believe Davidson students — black and white — need to wake up and question whether our current social situation is what we want. Are we satisfied with our limited knowledge of each other? Are we willing to make the effort of being uncomfortable in each other’s company until we learn to be with each other naturally? Or are we going to resign ourselves to self-imposed segregation?

Pete Skillem ’85