Interview with Will Terry — Dean of Students Discusses Religion at Davidson

By PEGGY PIEROTTI ’86

Dean of Students Will Terry was interviewed this week concerning the place of religion at Davidson. This is a transcript of that interview.

Davidsonian: How important do you feel religion is at Davidson College?

Dean Terry: I think it’s a part of the whole fabric of the college. I think it’s part history and part present reality.

How do you feel that the religious influence has changed throughout the history of the College?

I think this is a really crucial sort of juncture in which the College finds itself right now because there used to be very tangible and obvious signs of the church or Christian commitment—chapel and vesper services and a strong religious requirement for the faculty to teach here—all those things were very obvious. Now I think the signs of the Christian commitment are much more subtle. All these places [Presbyterian-related colleges in both the Southern and Northern churches] are struggling to identify what makes them a Christian college because the old symbols have passed away. One of the problems too is that there are a group of colleges not like Davidson which have very narrow and specific ways in which they symbolize their Christian commitment. A lot of people look at us and say that we don’t have very tangible symbols. “Where is your Christian commitment?”

How do you think Davidson’s religious image is reflected?

One thing is that Davidson is very much a caring place. I think it is partly student-for-student, and I think part of it is institutional caring as well. Dr. Albert Outler, who is a Methodist theologian from Southern Methodist, said that he has taught at Duke, Yale, SMU, and Emory, all of which have at least historically had pretty strong church connections. He said he had never seen a place where the faculty was as concerned about the welfare of students... So I think that is one of the principal ways that Davidson displays a religious image. I think also that a lot of college policy is informed—obviously the way we elect our trustees; over half our trustees are elected by the church. I think their policies often, not always, but often are reflections of that sense of church ties. Those are two ways. Also the very fact that we have a college chaplain is an effort to continue that kind of tie. To some extent, though not as much as it used to, the places where we draw our students reflect this image.

Do you think Davidson is as religiously strong now as it once was?

I think there has been some erosion. I would say, for example, that while we didn’t particularly always enjoy going to vespers and chapel, I think that the student body realized that it was a very informative and inspirational type of thing. The College was able to maintain that because students saw its value—even though it wasn’t always convenient. But when they no longer saw the value then there was no longer the support for it. Those kinds of tangible supports are no longer there, and I think that’s one of the ways that the religious strength has eroded. I think it would be nice [if it were still there], but it’s not the kind of thing you can coerce. Coercive religion is not a good type of religion. One should read the Introduction to the Code of Responsibility and the College’s Statement of Purpose. That’s a good statement, and I think the College doesn’t want to abandon that. I'm not sure that the religious ties are as strong among the faculty at Davidson.

Do you think that the relationship with the Presbyterian Church, or the church in general, strengthens Davidson College as a liberal arts college?

Dean of Students Will Terry: I don’t know that it strengthens it as...a liberal arts college, but I am not conscious that it weakens it. Yes, in fact, I think it may strengthen it in that it adds another dimension to it. I think that Humanities, because of Davidson’s religious concerns, is structured in a way that the humanities program would not be structured at, say, Washington and Lee or Amherst.

Do you feel that the ties with the church limit Davidson in any way?

We are gradually getting a larger pluralism among faculty and among students. I think there was a time when it might have limited us; I do not think it limits us now.

Do you feel that these religious ties are relevant or appropriate in light of today’s society?

Sure. Yes. Unless you concede that pure secularism is the only valid way in which a person can respond, I certainly think so. I think, being who I am, that human beings have a very spiritual need and therefore I think that a college like Davidson adds a dimension in the whole educational scheme of the country which is very important. I think it would be pathetic if we were all Chapel Hills or Washington and Lees. Christian higher education has meant a great deal to the whole moral and intellectual fabric of the country.

How do the religious ties affect things at the school such as the curriculum and educational goals, and how do you feel that they should affect these things?

I don’t think they inhibit. There are some very specific ways in which they affect us, like the two religion requirements. I do not think that the Board of Trustees in any way inhibits the curriculum of the College. I think the watershed of this was the Linden affair several years ago, and I think now that we are bringing in a more pluralistic faculty that any hampering of our curriculum or teaching would be unlikely. In the last twenty years at Davidson the shrillest criticism by our constituents has not been because we weren’t teaching religion, but because we weren’t teaching the right kind of economics. We had a quote communist on our faculty—its politics and too much liberalism.

Do you think that the students here reflect religious sentiment?

I think that there are a lot of students here that do. I think the strength of DCF is a perfect example of that.

Do you then think that these religious ties should be preserved?

Yes. I think they should be strengthened in very careful ways. I am not interested in church control; I think that is the antithesis of education, but I think part of our religious ties are likely to erode as many people who are here now who have genuine concerns to see that the religious ties are maintained retire and leave. That’s why I think, while I am not interested in hiring only Christian faculty members, we jolly well better continue to see that we get some people who solidly believe in the purpose of Davidson College. And my one criticism is that we are not hiring enough Davidson graduates who understand what this place is about. I really get a little emotional about this, and I think we jolly well better look for some faculty members who have the kinds of dreams for Davidson that maintains what Davidson has historically been about.

Where do you feel the College is headed in its ties with the Presbyterian Church?

Because of the Union question, I really do not know. I guess I would like to see us continue to relate to smaller church judicatories like the Presbyteries—rather than like the Synod. I would also like to see the church be more serious about helping Davidson financially than it is presently. I don’t think the church has any right to say too much to Davidson, and they don’t say a lot. I think our financial support is pretty weak.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 15 October 1982