From the Locker Room

The Czar unveils IMAC

I returned to my barren chambers in Watts Towers the other night to find a series of questions concerning IMAC
left for me to answer by a freshman reporter from the Quips & Cranks. I would like to use this
space to answer both his questions and any other questions I think people are asking out there.

The first question anyone asks is what exactly does IMAC stand for? Well, it stands for Intramural Athletic Committee, which
is something of a misnomer since the committee itself exists in name only. The “Czar,” whose official title is president
of the IMAC, does most of the work the committee used to carry on.

A Brief History

There was a time when the IMAC played a major role in campus social life because of the very nature
of the school. The twelve houses which make up Patterson Court today were once all fraternities, only six of which
remain and only four of which still reside on the court. These twelve fraternities were the whole of the Davidson
social existence. If you weren’t in a fraternity you didn’t meet Queens girls. Another aspect of this society of fraternities
was intramurals. What a fraternity lost in terms of Queens women it tried to win back on the fields and
courts of the IMAC. Each fraternity (and the GDIs) fielded one team of its best talent in each sport and
went for it all. First place was worth so many points, second place worth fewer points, and so on. The
IMAC golf tournament, track meet, wrestling tournament, etc. were all worth those invaluable points. The team with the most points
won a trophy that was passed around from winning house to winning house. The IMAC was the overseer of all
this athletic bureaucracy and kept counts of points, game scores, forfeits, etc. Incidentally, forfeiting a refereeing assignment meant a loss
of points.

For years (twelve in a row, I believe) Phi Delt was far and away the premier house and held onto
all the trophies. Whenever I walk into Phi Delt I get a feeling of faded glory. You can still see
the old trophy case, once occupied by many brazen figures but now painfully empty. Phi Delt glories are now on
intercollegiate fields. When the fraternity system broke down, so did the IMAC. There is no longer a fraternity cup—in fact,
I’m not sure anyone knows where it is. Today freshmen play on the same field as fraternities, and women compete
as well. Such are the signs of changing times.

Purpose of IMAC

It seems to me the basic purpose of IMAC today is to give Davidson students a chance at once to
compete and have fun on the athletic field. Inevitably teams wind up with some members there to compete, some to
have fun, and some there for a happy mix. The top fraternity teams are doubtless playing for house honor and
pride. The dominant team of today is SAE. Last year they boasted a flickerball championship, B-league basketball championship, a softball
championship, and an A-league runner-up. Next year the KAs, with a fine junior class of athletes, will probably be the
dominant team. Yes, competition has a place in IMAC. A crowd of at least 75 people watched KA Gold upset
the defending champ Rastros (SAE) the other day in the season’s most competitive game.

IMAC games also serve the often-overlooked function of unifying freshman halls. I don’t think anyone on my freshman flickerball team
(Coming East) will soon forget upsetting Western Bass in overtime to gain the final eight of the tournament. Just this
past Sunday the 2-4 Zuchs, a freshman hall, were on a frigid and windswept flickerball field a full 30 minutes
before their game against the Rastros. Although IMAC is not the social focal point that it was 15 years ago,
surely today it is still a potent force of campus unity.

Revitalizing IMAC

Potent as IMAC may still be, by 1980 it had fallen on relatively hard times. Last year I began the
rather ambitious task of revitalizing and reorganizing the system. I cannot thank Sterling Martin and Laura Moore enough—they’ve been invaluable.
Caroline Brown, the new director of intramurals, has already been a great help. Aside from the relatively minor office work
I’ve tried to save, such as color-coding sports, probably the most evident addition is the weekly rankings. Our freshman Q&C
reporter friend asked just how I prepared these, and he’s not the only one who’s asked. Here’s the scoop. To
begin...With, I devised the rankings to generate student interest. It worked. I’ve had more people question rankings and get fired
up over them than I ever imagined. I do not claim originality of the idea. Juniors and seniors will remember
the Buick Brothers and Doughboys publishing their weekly top 10 in The Davidsonian. Their column gradually escaped the world of
IMAC as it forayed increasingly into the realm of social satire. It eventually abandoned IMAC altogether. With the new rankings
I’ve tried to expand the ranking to include all the teams as they’ll appear in the post-season tournament. In other
words, if you're ranked 16th, you can bet you'll play No. 1 in the first round. Good luck. I rank
teams primarily according to their record. If I know a 4-0 team is coming out of a weak division, it
won’t get ranked as high as a 3-0 or 3-1 team out of a strong division.

YOUR CHANCE TO COME TO LONDON

Junior-year programs, Postgraduate diplomas, One-year Master's degrees, and Research opportunities in the social sciences are offered at the London School
of Economics and Political Science. The wide range of subjects includes:

As for preseason rankings, an intact defending championship will, of course, get the top ranking. For flickerball, I generally rank
upperclass teams above freshman teams. This becomes something of a farce for basketball, however, where freshmen are as well-acquainted with
the game as upperclassmen.

Street Hockey, etc.

I’m also trying to broaden the horizons of IMAC. This winter IMAC will reintroduce street hockey as a major sport.
Games will be played on the outdoor basketball courts by the track. If you don’t know what it is, come
find out at a clinic to be offered later. If you do know what it is and you don’t have
a stick, don’t worry—IMAC can supply. In a few years, I hope, street hockey will take off.

Last spring, women’s softball was a disaster. Only one team consistently showed up, and when the opponent did, too, the
score was generally 30-0 or thereabouts. The way I figure it, most women don’t have baseball gloves, and if they
don’t, they aren't about to shell out $30 just to play IMAC. For that reason, this spring, women will have
a chance to revert to their childhood and play kickball. It’s easy to play, inexpensive, and—above all—fun! Come spring, I’m
also going to try to organize a one-day stickball tournament for a weekend—perhaps Spring Frolics. Start planning for that.

Our freshman reporter’s final question was, “Why do you like being IMAC Czar?” Most of the time I love it.
But there are times... I have a really hard time with people who forget to ref for one reason or
another or don’t get their scorecards in. Teams are constantly telling me, “We won this game” or “They forfeited that
game” and complaining because I didn’t get the score. Whose fault is that? If your ref doesn’t show, you should
have the common sense to get me a score or scorecard. Enough said.

One of the biggest problems I have with IMAC sports is coaches and players giving referees a hard time. There
are too many junior Bobby Knights out there. If you wanna play Bobby Knight and give the officials a hard
time, go to Indiana. IMAC officials do the best they can, and no one should expect a professional job from
them. We must remember that Davidson is a small college family and the ties shouldn’t be strained over something as
piddling as an IMAC sport. Unlike college or high school referees, officials here must live, eat, sleep, and go to
classes with the players they officiate. There’s no need to strain the ties.

Best of all, though, are the people I’ve met through IMAC. I meet a large portion of the freshman class
early on and get to know upperclassmen I'd never see otherwise. And that should be the great advantage for all—meeting
people.

HELP WANTED— Earn free travel and extra money as a campus representative for student travel. Call Jim daily at (617)
383-9560 After 6 p.m. (617) 545-6604

Accounting & Finance, Actuarial Science, Anthropology, Business Studies, Economics, Econometrics, Economic History, European Studies, Geography, Government, Industrial Relations, International History,
International Relations, Law, Management Science, Operational Research, Philosophy, Planning Studies, Population Studies, Politics, Sea-Use Policy, Social Administration, Social Work, Sociology,
Social Psychology, Statistical and Mathematical Sciences, Systems Analysis.

Application blanks from L.S.E., Houghton Street, London WC2, England. Please state whether junior or postgraduate.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 29 October 1982 19
