a aula ~ .00 sec: 90 m.p.h. fastball leaves pitcher’s hand at 132 ft. per sec > 90 m.p.h. The bat takes about .20 sec. to get to the same place which the ball passes in about 15 one-thousandths of a second.

Even though the weather has taken on multiple personalities, the calendar pays no mind. It’s April 23, and schizophrenic weather systems or not, baseball is in session. So if y’all’d be so kind as to open yourselves to sundry thoughts on the national pastime, I'll let ’em fly. And I’ll try to avoid throwing curves.

To be sure, no two sports are exactly alike, but it seems to me baseball stands head and shoulders above the rest for its singularity. I’m sure we could all think of ways baseball is different from the rest, but, for me, the following are the most striking differences.

Picture, if you will, a baseball diamond. It’s not rectangular as are football fields and basketball courts, but in the shape of a diamond. Note the grounds crews as well. A football field doesn’t require post-game treatment. Immediately after a baseball game, however, the grounds crew takes the field and nurses it oh so carefully back to health—resculpting the pitcher’s mound, rebuilding the batters’ boxes, packing soil here, loosening it there, watering the sparkling green velvet. Every diamond is a work of art, its sculptors underpaid as, alas!, always; and the director’s name not Da Vinci but Santarone. The field is a constantly reborn babe, demanding constant care. It is true, diamonds are forever.

Baseball is not bound by that which binds us all—time. Each and every inning has the potential to extend into eternity. In basketball, for instance, the scoreboard clock marches down inexorably. The clock is a disinterested despot, an unfeeling machine crafted by our hands to pose a predictable and finite limit on the human struggle beneath. No human power can end the steady clicking through zero and into some new dimension. In baseball, however, human effort can check time. Each and every player is time's tyrant as he and his capabilities see fit. Baseball’s time is not set by the callous scoreboard clock, but by the anemia of human effort.

0.25 sec. Batter must begin swing when ball is about here if he is to meet it over plate. Pitch takes .42 sec. to reach the center of home plate. Ball and bat must meet within about 0.015 sec. to hit the ball fair. Courtesy the Baltimore Sun.

Finally, baseball is singular because the defense holds the ball. This is at the heart of so many people’s baseball boredom. A baseball game is more often than not a chess game of sorts on a grand scale. Bobby Fischer and Earl Weaver are not so unlike. One plays with bishops and pawns, the other with basemen and pitchers. But Bobby Fischer never has to worry about the little wooden pieces making mistakes on their own. Earl Weaver has to worry.

Meritocracy

A friend of mine isa George Will fan. George Will is, for those of you who don’t know the name, a columnist for Newsweek. My friend has some Will quotes on his door, and one of the clippings reads, “Sport is one of America’s remaining meritocracies, a realm where equality rises and excellence wins.” The “American Dream” has run its course, and for the average man on the bottom of the social ladder, the odds are against his climbing higher. Sport, however, is not cast in this decreasingly mobile mold. The Braves are a prime example. In recent seasons the Braves have finished so far down that they set up telescopes to watch the pennant chase. Look where they are today. It is a tribute to equality in baseball that Atlanta and San Diego, the cellar dwellers of a year ago, are in places one and two now. Best of all, they’ve done it without the million dollar maybes. Those two teams are at a considerable disadvantage compared to their more powerful opponents, but they win nonetheless. Hard work is paying off. Atlanta will no doubt savor these sweet victories. Closet Braves fans will pour out of the woodwork to celebrate the triumph of the good ol’ American underdog. One hundred games from now the Braves will probably be fighting .500 (sorry, Charlie), but everyone will know that it can be done. Miracles do happen. “America, cling to the meritocracy of sport! Even if it is only baseball, at least the underdog can still come through. Dynasties are not forever. And if the underdog can do it in baseball, perhaps there is yet hope for the lesser aspirations of the common man fighting for gears and talk about the physics of Williams, “the last major-leaguer to bat .400,” contended that the single most difficult feat in all of sport is to hit a well-pitched baseball. Consider the discourse below and the diagram above, and I think you’ll agree. A Nolan Ryan fastball comes at the batter at about 100 mph, and it takes about .38 seconds to travel from his hand to home plate. Teammate Joe Niekro, or any other pitcher with a slow curve, puts the ball over the plate at a “mere” 58 mph, crossing the plate .66 seconds after release. Considering the disparity between those two speeds, imagine the timing necessary to hit a Ryan changeup or Niekro fastball. As if that isn’t enough, if the batter plans to hit the ball into fair territory, he has only a 15-degree arc across the plate with which to work. The ball passes through this two-foot “arc window” in .015 seconds. Worse yet, the bat has to be on its way long before the ball is anywhere near home plate. So a batter has a lot going on in his mind. He has to decide what kind of pitch it is and whether it’s going to be a strike or ball before the pitch is halfway there. 

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 April 1982.