Anorexia Continued from page 1

result of the environment, like sibling/parent relationships and dependence, or a major change in life. “Anorexia is called an ‘Emancipation
illness,’” said Dr. Ballard. “It comes at crucial times like adolescence, college, first jobs, first serious relationships.” Often, it occurs
when a crisis arises: when things go wrong, a young woman might lose weight to prove to herself that she
is still in control.

Anorexia is diagnosed when a person weighs below 15 percent of her normal body weight for no apparent or medical
reason. At the discussion, Steadman and Hill presented the following list of Anorexia characteristics:

—Dieting. Anorexics usually start with a harmless diet then gradually cut down on food, and may finally abstain from eating
altogether.

—Obsession with food. A great misconception is that anorexics do not like food. On the contrary, they are obsessed with
it and spend a lot of time thinking about it and how to avoid it or how to burn off
the calories derived from each bite. They will have the tendency to encourage others to eat and may even cook
excessively, but they never taste the results.

—Peculiar eating habits. These include cutting the food into tiny bites, chewing for a long time, pre-planning the amount and
calories of each serving, and a common tendency—not touching the food or fork with their lips.

—Physical activity. There is an increase of exertion. Anorexics stay active all the time by exercising even at night or
by just standing instead of sitting.

—Moodiness. This includes depression and withdrawal. According to Dr. Skeen, any great weight loss causes depression, and depression in turn
makes the anorexic more determined to lose weight, thus creating a self-destructive cycle.

—Vomiting. This is a very dangerous method for losing weight. The imbalance of potassium and electrolytes vomiting causes can lead
to death.

According to Jolly, Anorexia Nervosa cannot be cured solely by nutritional therapy. Re-establishing weight in such occasions must be done
with psychiatric help, because it is the individual’s personal attitude that must be changed. The only way friends and families
can help a person with Anorexia is by building her confidence and making her feel secure.

Convocation Continued from page 1

Phailbus serves on Pakistan’s Human Rights Commission and the Provincial Education Council of the Punjab, the highest provincial policy-making body
in Pakistan, as well as several other government education councils. Her authority in Pakistan has been increased by her travel
abroad and continuous activity in international organizations which include visits to American universities and representing Pakistan in an educational assembly
of Presbyterian Church women.

In 1975, Phailbus helped found The Asian Woman’s Institute and was the first chairperson of the group. The group seeks
“to assist the women of Asia in their search for self-fulfillment and in their outreach for the fullness of life
for all.” In addition, a Pakistan Woman’s Institute has been founded due to Phailbus’s efforts.

Phailbus received her bachelor’s and master’s degrees from Punjab University in Pakistan and joined the Kinnaird College staff in 1963
as a lecturer in geography.

Record Reviews with Jonathon Glance.

“Kid Creole and the Coconuts are washed upon the shore of B’Dilli Bay—Island of sinners ruled by outcasts where crime
is the only passport and RACE MUSIC is the only way out!” Thus reads the introduction of the new album
by August Darnell and company, alias Kid Creole and the Coconuts. The fact thatThe whole urbane diagonal saga of their
adventures is a put-on. Doesn’t matter, of course, although it’s tempting to toy and figure out who all is meta
patonsy. The important thing is that this band shows an exotic groove of Caribbean extraction without both sides of old,
leading the energy, unwilling to throw a dangerous quagmire of in you and to the peculiar idiosyncrasies of the surrealist
Kid Creole. This cool-suited persona looms, smiling all the while, and the group is pretty much made up of August
Darnell, “Sugar-coated” Andy Hernandez, and “the vibes” (the luscious Coconuts), accompanied ably by a facelessly proficient studio band.

Darnell began his career with the uncommonly sophisticated Dr. Buzzard’s Original Savannah Band, one of the few disco bands acclaimed
by the hipper critics. This incarnation of that band still stresses slick rhythms and intellectual bon mots, but there is
a distancing from the inane song subjects which has endeared the band to New Wave fans, especially in England. Although
the group has had some hits in the U.S., they’re generally too enigmatic for most listeners—the band’s slippery ambiguities leave
the earnest listener with nothing to hang on. The point, of course, is to release your mind and float along
with the groove; this release of consciousness into the music was disco’s only saving grace, and when it’s done well
it is truly invigorating.

While there are a couple of clinkers on this LP, there are some really neat songs as well, which pretty
much get at the heart of Darnell’s seemingly effortless music. A good example is the opening song, “Annie, I’m Not
Your Daddy”—this apparently innocuous Latin swing concerns a man cold-heartedly telling his daughter of her actual parentage (in a great
line, he tells her that if she had his blood she wouldn’t be so ugly). The following song, “I’m a
Wonderful Thing, Baby” seems to be putting on the too-cool soul singers who laugh about their conquests, but the levels
under that are many and varied. The best song on the album is “Stool Pigeon,” which was a big hit
in England this summer. Over the rock-steady foundation of a guitar swinging in a groove, an unexpectedly sarcastic story of
an ex-con turned squealer is revealed. Everyone looks bad, from the “crooked friends” to the ex-con who gets a credit
card, a Thunderbird, and plastic surgery, to the FBI agents who reward him “cause they like a guy who will
stab a friend.” Bitter ironies abound but are told over such a sweet horn groove that you just don’t care
(which may or may not be the point of the song—to test your morality, and show it lacking).

The entertainment value of such an ambiguous band may not be obvious at once, but the fact is that the
songs can be perceived as either mindless or intellectual offerings to the public eye. This ingenuous/ingenious dividing line is thin
enough that you can pretty much get out of the songs whatever you put into them. The gloss on this
LP is so well done that the listener mirrors himself without getting into the mind of “Kid Creole.” If you
want some dance music that bears careful scrutiny, then consider trying out Wise Guy. Then again, if you’re just looking
for a good beat, a good groove, and a good time, consider trying out Wise Guy.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 5 November 1982
