Ken Wood and the Davidson

Centering - “Venturing and the philosophy behind it”

Careers Office

Ken Wood and Davidson’s Careers Office are interested in more than getting students into prestigious jobs; they are concerned with
helping students toward a better quality of life. Understanding Wood’s philosophy of living is essential to understanding how Davidson’s Careers
Office works because Wood sees “experiential learning” as critical to successful career decisions.

For the last three years, Wood has noted a shift in student interest from graduate schools to jobs, and the
Careers Office has increased placement programs to help meet the new demand. About 30 corporate recruiters visited Davidson’s campus this
year, and seminars relating to getting jobs have been stepped up.

Nevertheless, Wood has encountered criticism suggesting that someone with more of a “corporate” look might have better success at placing
Davidson seniors in jobs. A casually dressed Wood counters that suggestion with data which shows otherwise.

In a survey of twelve small liberal arts schools comparable to Davidson, Davidson places last in the percentage of total
graduates to get a job (perhaps since most students still go on to graduate school), but of students completing files
in the Careers Office, 25% were hired by visiting recruiters. This category reflects the job the Careers Office is doing.
Davidson is second only to Williams, a school that spends more than four times as much as Davidson on placement
activities and has five full-time professional staff persons compared to Davidson’s paid professional staff of one and a half.

Wood recognizes the current need of students for job placement and is proud of the Careers Office’s record in this
regard. Wood emphasized, however, that no office of any size or quality can honestly act as a broker for a
student in the job market, just as no office can provide one with a loving mate.

Wood says that students who come to his office saying “I want a job, but I don’t want to mess
with all that other stuff” show a lack of responsibility to themselves as well as a lack of realism about
jobs and life. Choosing a career successfully means having a clear idea of the kind of life one wants, and
that means more than a desired salary figure.

Prospective employers can tell when an interviewee has not thought deeply enough about his future goals, and they will reject
someone who might change his mind after a few years of expensive training. Therefore, in order to be true to
your own needs and your employer’s needs, experience beyond the inside of a Chambers classroom is necessary.

This is where Ken Wood’s Office really helps: By listening to your needs and ideas and then suggesting ways these
ideas can be turned into experiences, the Careers Office can help you learn a little bit about the “real world”
outside Davidson, but more importantly, you can learn a lot about yourself. And from this new self-understanding spring new ideas
and better-founded future plans. Wood calls this cycle “centering-venturing.”

Ken Wood attacks the proposition that life should be separated into successive blocks labeled education, work, and retirement. Centering-Venturing, a
book Wood co-authored, states: “Learning, working, and relaxing are integral to life at every stage in our development and need
not be segregated into age-specific boxes.”

The inspiration for Centering-Venturing and the philosophy behind it comes in part from Richard Bolles, author of What Color Is
Your Parachute?. Wood’s approach in Centering-Venturing, which is aimed at college students, is similar to the approach Bolles takes in
his “Life Work Planning” seminars for people who need guidance in mid-career. In his own life, Wood has seen the
value of creative job seeking. While working on a fellowship at Ohio University, Wood heard that Davidson had received a
Cooperative Education Grant from the U.S. Office of Education. He contacted Davidson with ideas about how that grant might be
used, and the Office of Experiential Programs at Davidson was soon formed and later became known as the Careers Office.

Wood operates the Careers Office based on what he has learned in his own life and what he has observed
in the lives of others. And judging from the number of young executives you see playing Pac-Man these days, maybe
Ken Wood's holistic approach to career planning deserves some attention. A little centering-venturing now might prevent some desperate “Life Work
Planning” seminars at mid-career.

Frazier Worth ’82

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 7 May 1982

15
