Boning Up
Professor Reichs Pokes Around With Very Dead People

By JEFF DEMPSEY '83

Professors' interests sometimes lead them into unexpected lines of work. Dr. Kathleen Reichs, assistant professor of anthropology, is interested in the study of the social patterns of certain prehistoric North American Indians of the Midwest as revealed through genetic traits seen on their bones. She has a forthcoming book on the subject, Hominid Origins: Inquiries Past and Present, to be published in January by University Press of America. Dr. Reichs also works for the Charlotte Police Department and the Mecklenburg County Examiner’s office on occasion. She brings together anthropology and criminology through her expertise in the field of osteology, the study of the human skeleton. Dr. Reichs first brought osteology to bear on her anthropological studies and she now acts as a consultant to the Charlotte police in cases of the discovery of human remains which cannot be identified through flesh analysis or dental work. “I work on an average of about six cases a year,” Dr. Reichs says. “The first questions I’m asked are whether the remains are human and if so, are they contemporary?” If the remains are established as human and contemporary, Dr. Reichs files a report on her determination, based on observations and measurements done in the laboratory, of age, sex, height, race, build, time elapsed since death, and sometimes possible cause of death. The police then use in their investigation the description outlined in her report, attempting to match that description with missing persons. Most cases, Dr. Reichs says, do reach a presumptive identity, but there are those in which the victim remains unknown.

Some cases allow for special techniques of identification. In one case, for instance, the deceased was thought to be a patient missing from a mental hospital, and the patient had a set of X-rays on file. Dr. Reichs was then able to use post-mortem X-rays to make a positive identification of the body as that patient.

Dr. Reichs’s involvement with this type of work grew naturally out of her interests in osteology. As an undergraduate she worked at the Smithsonian Institute in the department of Physical Anthropology where a lot of this kind of work is done. While on the faculty at Northern Illinois University, she began working on cases for the local sheriff’s department. Her involvement with the Charlotte police started three years ago when she came to Davidson. Having attended several seminars on forensics and related topics, including the Second Annual Conference for the Recovery of Human Remains last spring, Dr. Reichs has been asked to present a paper on her work to the International Congress of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences next summer in Canada. She has also been asked to organize a symposium for the national meeting of the American Association of Physical Anthropologists in April.

By Anderson Scott '84

Good typists needed. Make good money and learn a useful skill at the same time. For more information, call Ann 892-6111. An equal opportunity employer. Surround yourself with quality people. Challenge your manual dexterity. Not a misprint.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/5 November 1982