The War Between Left and Right

The Big Thing on College Campuses

It may be fading as fast as the memories of the 1980 elections off campus, but the on-campus debate over the political role of the right has recently escalated into something of a lecture war between left and right.

On the left are former U.S. senators George McGovern and Birch Bayh, who have mounted a vigorous, almost frenetically-paced anti-rightist campus lecture campaign.

On the right are conservatives like writers William Rusher and Howard Phillips and Moral Majority spokesman Cal Thomas, who have taken to the campus hustings to defend themselves against the McGovern-Bayh campaign.

The McGovern-Bayh campaign has been on a broad offensive from coast to coast this school year.

McGovern spent the fall hustling from Ferrum Junior College in Virginia to the University of Missouri, to Purdue, Cal State-Fullerton, Alabama, Smith, Stanford, Eckerd College in Florida, and 42 other campuses.

Among the 25 colleges he’s visited just since January are Ohio Northern, Louisiana State, Central Michigan and the University of California-Santa Cruz.

Bayh, whose schedule is less hectic than McGovern’s, mixes debates with conservatives among his lectures against right-wing politics.

Their efforts spring from McGovern’s promise, made the evening after his November 1980 senatorial defeat, to form a liberal group to try to counter the conservatives’ advertising.

The result was a group called “Americans for Common Sense (ACS).”

“The lecture series is simply part of our public relations effort, designed to cast some doubt on the views espoused by the Moral Majority,” explains Ruth Claveloux, ACS’s research director.

At Notre Dame recently, for example, McGovern charged conservatives with “distorting the family image, trying to judge complex issues with simple answers and detracting from the real issues the country should concentrate on.”

In response, the Moral Majority has launched its own tour to show students “we don’t measure up to the stereotypes,” says Cal Thomas, the group’s vice president of communications.

“We have as much right to be doing it as our liberal friends,” Thomas reasons.

“I’ve spoken at 40 or so colleges in the last year across the country.” His schedule, in fact, rivals the intensity of McGovern’s. The articulate Thomas already has 25 campus stops scheduled through June 1982.

But unlike McGovern, Thomas prefers to debate instead of lecture. He frequently must be content with debating ACS Executive Director George Cunningham, though he did recently get to debate Bayh at the University of Pittsburgh.

Thomas complains he can’t lure McGovern into a joint appearance. “McGovern just won't debate. It’s like teaching boxing, but not getting into the ring with somebody. The liberals go out and lecture and make all these charges. But there’s nobody there to challenge them.”

Thomas, however, often serves as surrogate debater for Moral Majority President Jerry Falwell.

Students seem to like the lecture war, regardless of who stands in for whom.

“It’s a hot issue right now,” observes Walter Capps, a professor who arranged one of the skirmishes at the University of California-Santa Barbara.

As has had to happen at many campuses, Santa Barbara students had to settle for a delayed exchange, with McGovern lecturing one week and Thomas the next.

Yet when Bayh and Thomas appeared together at Pittsburgh, “the audience really responded well,” reports Liz Barnett, Pitt’s lecture organizer.

“There were some very fiery audience reactions. It was definitely anti-Moral Majority. Some guy kept yelling at Thomas and accusing him of being a Nazi. But Thomas really spoke his point well.”

A sell-out crowd of 1100 attended.

Thomas is used to the response. A Smith College audience, for one, repeatedly forced him to interrupt his speech because of heckling.

“I’m always received with great interest,” he says. “There are some who agree with me, many who remain silent, and some who feel they must boo and hiss and try to drown you out. It’s always an interesting demonstration of the First Amendment they’re (the hecklers) supposed to believe in.”

It is also lucrative. Cunningham and Thomas average $1800 - 2000 per appearance, while Bayh commands $2500 and McGovern $4000 - 8000 for a lecture.

Former President Gerry Ford, by contrast, signed for $16,000 to make an April appearance at Auburn.

(CPS)—

HOME

Language courses
Writers Conference
Washington Laboratory
College Preparation

ABROAD
Dijon, France - French
Quito, Ecuador - Spanish
Fiesole, Italy - Italian
Wales, Literary Tour

GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY SUMMER SCHOOL

Interpretation and Translation Institute
Government/Business/Internships
English as a Foreign Language

Over 200 graduate and undergraduate courses
Sessions: Pre-May 24-June 18
First Session - June 9-July 13
Eight-week Cross Session - June 9-August 6
Six-week Cross Session - June 28-August 6
Second Session - July 14-August 17

Leningrad, U.S.S.R. - Russian
Oxford, England - Business Administration
Trier, West Germany - German
Italy, Christian Archeology Fieldtrip
Greece, Life and Thought in Ancient Greece

or call: (202) 625-3006

SEND MORE INFORMATION
Name
Address
ZIP
Mail to: SSCE
Georgetown University
Washington, D.C. 20057

Georgetown University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action institution in employment and admissions.

LEONID, LET’S NOT STOP WITH A FREEZE. LET’S GET RID OF THEM.

WE'D BE THE GREATEST MEN IN HISTORY!

NO NUKES. NO INSANE ARMS RACE! NO TERROR OF ANNIHILATION!

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, May 7, 1982