By ANNE LAMBERT ’86

What is dance? The North Carolina Dance Theater seems to have a pretty good idea, demonstrating several aspects of dance in a performance Thursday night, 2 December in Love Auditorium. The 16-member troupe, a professional affiliate of the North Carolina School of the Arts under the direction of Robert Lindgren, appeared in conjunction with the Davidson College Artist Series.

The program began with three dances from the third act of the ballet “Napoli”: “Pas de Six,” “Soli,” and “Tarantella.” The spirited classical number included numerous spins, lifts, and leaps sure to satisfy any traditional ballet patron. Edward Campbell performed with particular energetic flair in a flowing solo variation. However, a few of the dancers demonstrated technical inadequacies. Often they wore pained expressions and their movements were labored. Much of the potential vibrancy of the piece was lost in what appeared to be a struggle on the part of a few dancers to be technically perfect.

The second piece, “Women,” was a stark contrast to the classical ballet composition of “Napoli.” Intense in its movement, powerful in its statement, sensual in its emotion, the dance was an intimate portrayal of and tribute to women, choreographed to the anguished music of Grace Slick. Dressed in old-fashioned camisoles and slips, five members of the troupe (Darleen Callaghan, Dayna Fox, Pearl Potts, Laura Worrill, and Terri Lynn Wright) interpreted the spectrum of the joy and sorrow of women’s existence. The portrayed strength of the dance had a definite impact upon the audience, female and male alike, making it the most memorable of the dances in the program.

The third work, “Resettings,” was substituted for the originally scheduled “Legend” as more appropriate to the college audience. Critically acclaimed “Resettings” was commissioned for the American Dance Festival at Duke University where it made its world premiere in 1980. Modern dance choreographer Senta Driver created the dance specifically for the North Carolina Dance Theater, and her style and technique are as original as anything seen in American dance theater today.

“Resettings” is totally modern in its techniques, and ballet traditionalists may find it unsettling. It is an extremely physical piece, as performers roll around the stage and over each other. Stage roles are reversed as women dancers lift male partners. Except for a sequence toward the end of the piece, which is danced to an arrangement of Henry Purcell’s “Dido and Aeneas,” movement is done to the rhythmic tappings, clappings, or hummings of the dancers themselves, or in silence. “Resettings” presents a new approach to modern as well as classical dance, but such unrestrained genius can often be misinterpreted. Watching a performance of the dance is compatible with observing a recess of malfunctioning robot children. While the interpretation is innovative and fresh, it will definitely take some getting used to.

The final work in the program was a full company performance of “Sundances.” In an exquisite and graceful performance, the troupe returned to a more classical ballet style, shaded with aspects of Greek folk dance. Deborah Dawn and Edward Campbell were especially stunning in a peaceful duet danced against a sunburst background.

Much of the appeal of the North Carolina Dance Theater must be attributed to their diversity of style. They combined a program of classical, modern, and jazz to present every facet of dance imaginable and to satisfy any audience member’s appetite.

Sloan Grant

(Continued from page 1)

Davidson College as a liberal arts education on the national educational scene. Approaches to the liberal arts are clearly being modified by all fields of technology. Leaders of today and tomorrow must be ‘technologically literate.’ The Sloan Foundation grant will help us maintain our goal of offering a superior liberal arts education, which now must include technological competence as one of its components.” Davidson is the only southern institution among ten colleges and universities nationally selected for the Sloan Foundation’s New Liberal Arts grants.

Last spring 33 liberal arts colleges were each given a $10,000 planning grant to develop proposals to submit to the Foundation, describing how the institution would use $250,000 to enhance technological literacy and make modern technology part of a liberal arts education. Associate Dean of the Faculty J. Nicholas Burnett chaired the committee which submitted the proposal.

The grant provides summer training seminars for 30 faculty members from the humanities and social sciences in applied mathematics and computer programming as well as six symposia during the academic year on technology and the liberal arts. Twelve Faculty Fellows, two per term over a two-year period, will be released for a year to develop new courses integrating technology into their disciplines.

Spencer Resigns

(Continued from page 1)

Personal regret, I look forward with real pleasure to renewing my association with institutions and friends in Virginia.” Spencer was president of Mary Baldwin College in Staunton, Virginia from 1957-1968.

Spencer counts coeducation, increased endowment, growing distinction of the faculty, and Davidson’s improving national reputation as the major positive changes during his term since 1968. He is disappointed that the sports complex and new fine arts building were not finished. “We want to get our building needs out of the way so we can concentrate on development and program,” he said.

Spencer graduated summa cum laude from Davidson in 1940 with an English degree. After an M.A. and Ph.D. from Harvard, he returned to Davidson as History professor and Dean of Students from 1954 to 1957. He served as Mary Baldwin College’s president for eleven years until he returned to Davidson again in 1968 as president.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/10 December 1982

10