An American in Paris

Elizabeth Kiss Writes Home

"You know, we could be deported for this..."

I tightened the handle of my bucket of wheatpaste a little tighter at this peculiar interjection from Bob, interrupting his
own explanation of a psycholinguistic analysis of Greek Homeric poetry. It was a cold November night. The two of us
were scurrying around the Cité Universitaire, a campus of the University of Paris, wheatpasting posters announcing an El Salvador Solidarity
march the following weekend.

Bob, an American actor and playwright living in Paris since 1968, was, I decided, probably not a reliable source of
information on the consequences in France of political involvement by foreigners. His hushed references made the current French police authorities
sound like a throwback to the Vichy regime. Still, he had been around a lot longer than I had...

"So, if we get caught, it’s drop the buckets and run?"

"Of course."

"Where to? The American Embassy?"

Bob slapped a poster over a perfume ad and said, a bit dramatically, "Anywhere but..."

The next day, happily still at large, I sat in front of Notre Dame, debating what to write home to
The Davidsonian. How had three months in Paris playing the compare/contrast game changed my way of thinking? I realized that
it was my view of The United States, not France, that had changed the most.

The United States looks different from this side of The Atlantic. More imperialistic. Isolated and alienated, by her very power,
and her anxious efforts to protect this power, from new political and social currents. Guided by an ossified set of
bipolar economic power structures. Exhibiting a national character which, in addition to the energy and generosity, includes a certain childlike
lack of sophistication, and, currently, a reactionary conservatism nearly as quirky as Khomeini’s alleged visions of a traditional Muslim society.

This does not mean that the United States compares unfavorably with France. It does mean that the U.S. comes more
into focus when viewed through a different society. The bipolar binoculars raise hackles among even the most pro-West of European
observers. For example, President Reagan’s October 16 statement affirming the possibility of an East-West nuclear war confined to European soil
angered Western Europeans because it made them feel like a more subtle version of the Soviet "buffer zone" in Eastern
Europe.

The danger of the binoculars becomes more evident in their application to the Third World. Reagan Administration officials continually refuse
to acknowledge that the revolution in El Salvador, for example, is essentially home-grown. They label it a "textbook case" of
"extracontinental military intervention." Such an analysis betrays a ferocious indifference to the true roots of popular revolution, which lie, not
in Soviet secret planbooks, but in the misery and pride of a people. In the list released by The Archbishop
of San Salvador of 10,700 unarmed civilians "murdered" between January and September 1981 by the American-armed military and its paramilitary
offshoot groups.

French President Francois Mitterand’s government has recognized the Salvadoran revolutionary coalition as legitimate representatives of the people. In an interview
with Le Monde, he criticized the current U.S. policy as not only immoral but self-defeating. "It ends up driving into
the adversary camp," he said, "people who are not natural adversaries of The West but who become so through the
logic of the situation we impose upon them."

U.S. domestic politics baffles many French observers as well. A recent television documentary on Washington, D.C. commented that neither major
U.S. political party has any plans for fundamental societal change. The interplay between U.S. business interests, unions, and the government
remains basically stable. It becomes difficult to determine who is governing whom, the commentator implied.

In France, the government, for better or for worse, is not held in thrall by other interests, as the example
of Mitterand’s nationalization proves. No wonder that 63% of the French voted in this year’s presidential elections.

As the T.V. documentary camera panned over the festive crowd at Reagan’s victory speech, I saw the faces of my
French host family curl into smiles of wonderment. The funny hats, balloons, stickers, and glasses of champagne, so familiar to
me, struck them as very strange. In France, politics is serious business.
