BTS

Having never felt racial, age, or economic oppression, I can’t pull a Victor Frankl on you (ask a Humes jock). I’ve never been in jail, even for something cute like public urination, and I’ve never had a fling with a mysterious foreign woman. So what is there to keep you people interested?

Of the stories I could tell, paltry and relatively safe as they have been, finding a good one is not always easy. For example, there’s the stuff I don’t want my folks to know about—or my professors, or my friends. Then there’s the more traumatic material that my poor mind has selectively eliminated so that I won’t have to live with it (apologies to Dr. Brockway, who may or may not say that this is possible). Finally, there’s the condition I mentioned at the beginning—that of not knowing how to make an observation that does not use the part to ridicule the whole of something. I haven’t licked this problem, but having now apologized for it, and having finished my lament on the Author’s Search for Subject (extra credit, Prof. McMillan?), I present the saga of theology in the laundromat:

Spending your Christmas vacation in one of America’s sprawling, mega-growth cities is not so bad. But it means that your potential for existential adventure and personal edification is restricted to old stand-bys like personal alienation, urban impersonality, and the swell of downtown ennui. Usually. But this day was different.

The friend I was visiting didn’t really have any facilities for laundry, so we looked like we were pretty clean. Wringing wet, and with some time to kill, we decided to hit the laundromat. Before long we were blissfully sitting in front of a visual feast of overalls, tee shirts, and socks, with an occasional bra drifting by for variety. For a while I tried to convince myself that they looked like fish playing in an aquarium, but you can tell that didn’t work. So, having always been fascinated by people, I started to look around.

The building was L-shaped, so it was not at this point that I realized we had company. His head was sort of shaved on the sides, and he was dressed in standard proletarian garb. Perhaps it was the fact that he didn’t seem to be doing any wash that struck me as singular about him. Then I noticed that beside him was a copy of the Bhagavad Gita the size of your average unabridged dictionary. For the uninitiated, the Bhagavad Gita is an important Hindu text, perhaps analogous to God’s call to Abraham or Moses in the Old Testament. But it’s just a short little book.

My very dear lady friend was deviously distracted, so I figured this guy must take his Hinduism pretty seriously. I said something to this effect, and immediately found myself engaged in a cultural experience. To sum up his initial fifteen-minute rambling, he told me that he was studying Sanskrit at Emory and that he didn’t partake of alcohol, drugs, or illicit sex (he didn’t say anything about licit sex), because he had been a Hindu for four (of his about 25) years. Now, this last point struck me as particularly interesting, because, if you know anything about Hinduism, you know that deciding to “become” Hindu after growing up in the middle of the American Dream is about like deciding to “become” black or to “become” a genius. But he was too interested in me to let me find out much about him. After showing me his book, its several different translations, and explaining that I was in civil company with a woman (my companion), I was no doubt bound for hell in a handbasket.

As he expounded this charmingly, I noticed what he was doing—eating a hunk of cream cheese and swilling a jug of some kind of fruit punch that was the appropriate color of a gall bladder. He was quite adroit at talking with his mouth full, so as not to lose any time. As you might imagine, I was having an increasingly difficult time concentrating on what he had to tell me. He was somewhere in the middle of telling me that meat-eating was a sure way to keep oneself from higher truth, when I asked if yoga was a part of his regimen. When he said yes, I asked him what kind. He told me he couldn’t remember its name. My suspicion grew. As he guzzled the last of his cyclamate juice, he shrugged. “Chemicals everywhere,” he said. Now, that was constructive. I was fast growing weary of this Jerry Falwell of the pseudo-Eastern set, so I took my leave, asking him to send me a card when he reached Godhead.

For the rest of the day, I thought elaborate thoughts about the many ways in which we manifest our disillusionment. I also thought about why so many Americans think there’s something spooky or weird about Eastern religions. I also thought about what misdirected directions we sometimes take in trying to protest the things we think are wrong with the obscene affluence and hypocrisy known as Western civilization. And then I went home and did my own laundry.

—John Hartman '82