An Interview With the SGA: By PEGGY PIEROTTI ’86

Davidsonian: What is the SGA?

Boe Young: The Student Government Association is an organization that incorporates the entire student body; every student is a member
of the SGA.

Tim Johnston: Part of the SGA is the Senate, and senators are elected by dorms and by classes as well
as by off-campus students. The Senate basically serves as the representative, governing body of the SGA.

Who composes the Senate?

Johnston: There are three class Senators from each class—one of whom is also the president of each class—and one dorm
Senator from each dorm except from Belk which has two freshman representatives and one upperclassman. There are three off-campus Senators,
one for every 100 off-campus students.

How does the SGA function?

Johnston: Various committees meet at least once a week. These committees are active, and what I mean by that is
they search for areas that pertain to the purpose of the committee. Their job is to study situations and come
up with ideas for improvements or projects.

Young: The committees serve in advisory roles; they don’t have direct power to change college policy. There are also project
committees—such as a phone-a-thon committee.

What are the various committees sponsored by the SGA?

Johnston: We have thirteen SGA standing committees. The most important of these are the Admissions Committee, the Athletic Committee, the
Careers Committee, the Corporate Relations Committee, the Phone-a-thon Committee, the Security Committee, and the Trustee Contact Committee.

How many people are on these committees?

Johnston: The numbers vary from three or four on, say, the Security Committee to 70 or 80 people on the
Trustee Contact Committee. The committee members are both elected SGA members and also members of the general student body.

Young: Most of the chairmen are elected senators, but even they can be from the student body.

What types of goals or issues do you feel that the SGA should set or deal with this year?

Johnston: First, we want to continue the projects started in past years, such as the phone-a-thon. We want to improve
upon these projects; we are hoping to surpass last year’s total.

Young: This money is used by the development office from the Living Endowment.

Johnston: We also intend to continue with the careers symposium. This has always been a big help to students who
really want to have a look at different careers. I think it’s very valuable to seniors and underclassmen alike.

What future plans does the SGA have?

Johnston: One of the most important ideas in the executive council now is one geared to bringing in more students
from the mid- and northwestern parts of the country. These regions are very under-represented, and I think this hurts Davidson
College in several ways. There is a lot to be said for diversity in the student body, as well as
the fact that bringing Davidson’s reputation to the Midwest opens many career and graduate school opportunities to Davidson graduates.

How do you plan to increase enrollment from these regions?

Johnston: I have met with Dr. Griffith, and we plan to recruit people to put together introductory letters for college
advisors and counselors at the better high schools in the Midwest. These letters will go out within the next two
or three weeks, and many of these counselors will hopefully contact their counterparts in the east who know of Davidson
and who can give them recommendations for the school. Then these counselors can encourage students to learn about and visit
Davidson. This way Davidson can gain recognition with schools such as Amherst, Carleton, and Williams—schools that Davidson should be mentioned
alongside of, but oftentimes isn’t.

How long will it take before this plan is in full effect?

Johnston: Well, we hope to see effects of the plan next year, and within five years we should have a
substantially higher representation from these areas. What other plans...Does the SGA have for this year?

Young: Basically, the SGA plans to deal with the various issues that arise and to make these issues known to
the students to get their reactions. An example was the EPC grading proposal change that occurred last spring; we held
an open forum for the students to come and express their opinions. We represented the student body, and consequently, the
change did not occur.

How do you determine how the student body feels about an issue?

Johnston: Basically three ways: first, we can have an open forum where large groups of students get together to express
their thoughts; second, we can organize and distribute a questionnaire; and third and most frequently, we assign Senators to different
sections of the school to talk with the students about the issues.

Are there any other important plans for the SGA?

Johnston: Another thing that we consider very important is increasing the Davidson SGA’s involvement with other student governments in this
state. Davidson has been a bit isolationist, and this year we hope to change this policy. Last week the Southern
Conference SGA presidents were here, and this will be an enormous help for me and the members of the other
schools for exchanging ideas. We hope to meet fairly regularly; we shall really be using this resource this year. We
are also taking part in forming a North Carolina Association of Private School Student Body Presidents. This organization is going
to be gearing its efforts mainly toward increasing subsidiary funds going to individual private school students from North Carolina. Dr.
Spencer is very involved with this, and we would be working mainly as a lobbying association. This will be very
important to students from North Carolina at Davidson.

Finally, how can a student get involved in the SGA?

Johnston: If a student who did not wish to run for Senate wants to become involved, he should either get
in touch with Boe Young or myself or get in touch with the chairman of whichever committee he wants to
join. We urge students to call us.

Women’s Concerns Committee

Frank Bright ’83

The Women’s Concerns Committee is a group of women and men organized to discuss women’s issues and to plan activities
or presentations to heighten awareness of these issues on campus. Formed in May 1982, the committee is now centrally located
at the Union and thus receives its funding. The committee is headed by Sherburne Laughlin, along with two secretaries, Elizabeth
Kiss and Debby Williams, who work to generate publicity and plan functions.

“Most all of the members of the committee have been willing to volunteer their services,” Sherburne said, “and some are
now planning functions on their own.”

When asked why the committee was formed, Sherburne replied, “We feel that there’s a definite need on campus to present
a wide range of women’s issues. We're not just concerned with obvious issues like the ERA; we explore all interests
that concern women and society.”

The committee stresses that they are not exclusive. Both women and men are encouraged to participate, the idea being that
“women’s concerns” concern men also. Freshmen are especially welcome. Topics for their forum include (not ordered by priority): Women and
Health, Women and Athletics, Women and Art, Role Changing, Women and Politics, Women and Religion, and Women and Science. Such
topics can be approached in a variety of ways: panel discussions, trips to functions in other cities (see companion article
about Atlanta trip), or a guest speaker. The Women’s Concerns Committee is supported by the Speakers Committee, thus they have
flexibility in their functions. Last year, Charlotte Brody from “Planned Parenthood” came to discuss the current legislation on abortion. And
recently, a talk was given on Women in the Ministry.

The committee plans to have a meeting in October (specific date not set) and a casual get-together so that people
can discuss future projects and interests. If you are interested in women’s issues, then come to the meeting.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 1982
