& SS

Atticus Giger and Slimshafts have returned to evaluate what may finally be Spring term. It is now officially time to
take once again, as we look at the nearest coed’s legs and study that relief map.

Well, it is time once again for that sacred Davidson tradition. As everyone must know by now, the weekend begins
with the oft-maligned Outrage Concert behind the baseball field. As an added attraction this year, harpoons will be given to
the first two hundred to enter the concert in order to spear our illustrious leader. When asked about the decision,
Doug Spencer answered, “We can’t have a crowd of half-naked people running around in shorts and bathing suits, while Rusk
House will be involved in more very long films about Johnny Holmes.” In direct reaction to the administration, moreover, C.
K. Nichols, Jerome Hay, and Susan Roberts have gone to Washington to picket Sam’s move. Hopefully, a court injunction can
be gained to prevent the concert from being ruined. Before we turn our attention to another provocative subject, we must
quickly glance at Friday night’s activities. The SPEs will hold their First Annual Peach Suck, which is the fraternity’s idea
of bobbing for apples. As usual, the KAs, Pikas, and SAEs will keep various bus lines and airlines in business
with the arrival of their dates. By the same token, Rusk House is sponsoring an interesting raffle this spring in
conjunction with Spring Frolics. The winner of the raffle is not required to stay with his date at the Radisson
in Charlotte. All other entrees will be forced to spend the night with their dates.

This weekend also brings back a number of memories to those Davidson students who had been at previous Spring Frolics
weekends. Campus security has required Davidson’s Dwayne Lett to wear handcuffs to the concert to avoid assault charges in 1982.
Also, Barry Prine is being flown into Davidson where he will wallow just in front of the stage and yell
“Roll Tide” for over three hours. Noticeably missing from this year’s concert will be Sam Outten and Jane Alexanian, who
will spend the weekend at Sam’s beach house at Hilton Head. Obviously, Sam would never spend a “big” weekend with
a Davidson girl.

Moving from the subject of Spring Frolics to a more mundane topic, we here at DB & SS want to
salute the newly named members of Phi Beta Kappa at Davidson. This year’s list includes a who’s who list of
Davidson enigmas that deserve recognition. Eric Sorenson has disproved the Davidson stereotype that all athletes here at school are morons.
It should be noted that Davidson football captain Jeff Kane is in the same mold as Eric and is well
on his way to Phi Beta Kappa himself. Along the same lines, Davidson golfer Moffat McDonald was among those recognized
by this year’s list. Moffat merely commented, “People have always considered me a stupid fool, but I guess I showed
them that I have some sense, too.”

With all the emphasis on Spring Frolics this weekend, the Union is sponsoring a midnight movie in Love Auditorium entitled
“The Many Faces of Mike Goode.” The film is based on the turbulent life of Union President Mike Goode, who
has gone from radical liberal in September to Shaw’s best friend. In keeping with the motif of the College Union,
Mike is sponsoring a series of films about Davidson Phi Beta Kappa member Albert Nester entitled, “The B-52’s and a
3.95 GPA.” The film was sponsored by Rolling Stone Magazine and the King Biscuit Flower Hour.

Speaking of Faces in the Crowd... have you noticed that ex-Davidson football captain Mickey Dillon is behind the Union Café
counter? When asked about his new employment, Mickey responded, “I don’t really need the money. I just love to help
people and if a cream cheese bagel can help people, I’ll stick with it.” By the way, DB & SS
would like to thank the gracious editors of the Davidsonian for allowing our column to appear and hopefully will be
back in the somewhat near future.

Editor: Stewart Cauley
Executive Editor: Brian Butler
News Editor: John Richards
Assistant News Editor: David Resnik
Associate News Editor: Jeff Mann
Opinions Editor: Danny Armistead
Calendar Editor: Susan Graves
Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams
Photo Editor: Elizabeth Elkin
Photography Staff: Randy Stroud, Kelly Anderson, Scott Mark

DAVIDSONIAN
The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Production: Lisa Boardman, Jeff Herrin, Ann Meador, John Lusk, James Rozzelle
Staff: Andy Wilson, John Hartman, John Glance, John Verdi, Jeff Holland, Dianna Bohrer, Peter Alessandro Vitelli, Debbie Eisenbise, Lorelei Jeff
Hamilton, Matt Merrill
Foreign Correspondent: Andy Miller
Editor Emeritus: Elizabeth Kiss
Advertising Manager: Karis Hernstein
New Blood: Sam the Navajo

Subscriptions cost $10 per year. Advertising available on request. Second class postage no. 148.300.

Saturnalia, the second annual freshman-sophomore romp, is scheduled for 2:00 pm until sunset at the lake campus on April 24.
The party provides food (for a meal-card mark-off or $3.10) and beer (35¢ a cup) as well as games (volleyball,
softball, etc.), music (Charlie Summers plans to play a variety of records on the Union stereo), and “all sorts of
things.” Promises to be an almost Bacchanalian rush.
