Davidson Poet Returns to Campus

Of the roads leading away from Davidson, many are well-trod and others seldom see a traveler. J. McMichael Martin '58
has followed one of the lesser-used paths. For the past fourteen years, Martin has lived in the Virginia Mountains near
the little town of Glade Spring, developing his art as a writer and painter. He leads a simple lifestyle, living
in a cabin he built himself and earning his living with teaching and various odd jobs. Martin has published little
of his work and likewise exhibited few paintings. His appearances on the Davidson Campus on Monday, April 12, thus constitute
something of a public debut for this talented and devoted artist.

Mike Martin’s poetry and art deal with aspects of Western Civilization. It explores, in particular, many fascinating images which Martin
contends hold religious and quasi-religious significance for Western man. His paintings, showing the influence of the expressionists, often treat the
individualistic energies of man and the tensions of his relationship to his society and civilization.

After graduating from Davidson, Martin entered Duke University to pursue graduate studies in history. It was at this time that
his great interest in literature and creative writing developed. To unwind after class, he would sit at his typewriter and
record the thoughts and impressions which occurred to him. This form of writing has remained a favorite and has been
employed in the production of a voluminous collection of notebooks. In 1960, Martin earned his master's degree with one of
the most outstanding theses which had been written for Duke’s history department. He was awarded a Rotary Scholarship in 1961
for the study of French literature at the University of Aix-Marseilles and remained in Europe for several years, developing his
nascent artistic ideas in the embrace of European culture. In the late 1960s, this quiet and modest former basketball player
and ROTC cadet returned to the U.S. to pursue his artistic quest. Martin’s parents are Louise Martin and the late
President E. G. Martin of Davidson College.

Martin’s April 12 visit to Davidson includes a talk in the Morrison Room at 4 p.m. on his artistic life,
at which he will show slides of his paintings and read from his notebooks. At 7:30 p.m. in the 900
Room, he will give a formal reading of his poetry.

Mike Cooper ‘82

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 9 April 1982
