One thing all of us have had to get used to here in Kenya is being constantly conspicuous. Not only are all of us a different color than nearly everybody else, but we are also decidedly larger than the people of Western Kenya. I never really noticed that difference until someone showed me a photograph of forty people in which I stood in the back, a full head taller than anyone else. Now I’m an average American six-footer, but imagine how Vince Parker feels at 6’4”! Also, because of the lack of television, movies, and many photos, we are the only thing like us that many local people have ever seen. The moment we step out of the house, we are on constant display — and sometimes even inside the house when children peer in the windows. Everyone in the community knows all about our movements and discusses them, criticizes, and advises. Sometimes it is fun to know that you can make someone’s day by waving or greeting or shaking hands. Most of the time, however, it is extremely tiring to cause a sensation wherever you walk, with shouting, a parade of children following, and endless questions. It is an experience that makes one appreciate what the handicapped, circus freaks, or very small minorities go through.

This evening I became annoyed to find that one of the teachers I live with had his young niece over to spend the night. He thought I was very unreasonable, which may be true, but also he may not appreciate the situation completely. The problem is that I am stared at, laughed at, shouted to, talked about in languages I don’t understand, and generally on display all day every day. My time at home at night is my time to be sane and normal, and here is this young girl who’s afraid of me, unable to speak, and making me feel a stranger in my own house.

The honors accorded a teacher and especially a foreign teacher can become embarrassing. It is difficult to visit any home without being showered with gifts, meals, and being expected to stay at least two hours. This further becomes a problem when you know the family is poor and should not be wasting such gifts on you, but in African custom, it is extremely insulting to refuse such gifts. Another problem we must all come to terms with is the general assumption by many Kenyans that we are extremely wealthy. Of course, comparatively, we are very wealthy and carry the evidence of nice clothes, tape players, trips to Nairobi, etc. In addition, when people ask about our homes, we must admit that our parents have cars, televisions, permanent houses, they all have jobs, etc. Because of this, we are constantly asked for aid, help, or even cash outright — sometimes by total strangers. People often don’t understand that we are products of an affluent society and are not personally loaded with cash to give away. In a way, that too is frustrating because there are so many who need and deserve help that sometimes, you find you have given everything possible and there is simply nothing left. There really is such a thing as giving until it hurts — it hurts to turn the next deserving project or person away because there’s nothing left, or you’re too tired.

Of course, what I have described is a general public situation. In the homes and communities where we live and are known, many people accept us as just plain folks. One group that has really made...My time in Kenya is wonderful. I am part of a church choir with which I sing and dance. It is wonderful to be just simply another member of the group—not a leader, not an honored guest, but one of the rest. Being in a foreign culture so long has really made me appreciate how essential it is to have a sense of belonging. Many expatriates here, especially those only here shortly, hang around with only other expatriates, which at first I criticized, but now understand. We Davidsonians have been very lucky here to have in most cases become a part of our communities. It really makes all the difference in being able to cope with being unique. I hope you are getting things from others to fill in with, or you are using some of those student writings I sent when the post office fails. Enjoying this winter? It was 85 degrees today.

Every young idealistic woman dreads the thought of, instead of a young good-looking guy who really turns her on, regardless of what her mother says is good for her. “Most Happy Fella” dramatized this unfortunate situation. A more appropriate title for the production might have been “Most Unhappy Gal,” but of course, women of this play’s era were expected to “learn to love” sensible, if stilted, husbands. The College Union was fortunate enough to have the opportunity to present a real-live Broadway musical to this community. The actors and actresses, indeed, lived up to all expectations. They were strong and vibrant with grand voices, all of which filled Love Auditorium to the max. The energy and effort that lasted throughout the production paid off—even the piano duo with bass and drums thrived with excitement. The entire crew never quit. Too bad the plot died.

Act I is spent convincing the audience that mail-order brides deliver, and they do just that as Joey discovers on Rosabella’s and Tony’s wedding night! After a one-night fling with Joey, Rosabella spends Act II trying to fall in love with Tony, being forced to marry an old, overweight “fatherly” man. Tony’s sister Marie belongs in a Greek tragedy. She not only torments her brother’s desire for youth but eventually runs Rosabella’s and Tony’s possible relationship into the ground. I kept waiting for Rosabella to pick up her bags and join Joey in the vineyards for a little “fermentation.”

The last act was the least credible. Potentially promising, several serious and tragic incidents occur which leave one wondering if, indeed, this were not “West Side Story” or “Romeo and Juliet.” Tony tries to kill Joey, Joey runs away without a word, and Rosabella sings another one of those horrible songs to see how much she loves Tony, almost as if trying to convince herself. Tony promises to care for Joey’s baby, and everything works out, we hope. Actually, I’d check the local divorce cases in the Napa Valley Daily in a couple of weeks. Forced situations like this seldom work, not even in the good old days.

I’ve never viewed any performance which got so excited over the least little thing. Every which way the actors/actresses turned, they were singing—and not about unrequited love or the great mysteries of life. Valuable time was spent singing about feet, standing, and making a fist. If someone felt good, they sang about it. If they felt “Warm All Over” or missed their “Mama, Mama,” they felt compelled to bellow out the same lines over and over again. All in all, the story was tedious and melodramatic. The actors and actresses did their best, but the part I liked best was helping Patty, Bud, and Chris set up lights.

Lindsay L. Biddle