24a

- DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 April 1982

The Plight of the West Bank

“The pride of Palestine,” as Ramallah is sometimes called by its residents, was peaceful and picturesque when I visited it
last Wednesday (March 31).

People had certainly not forgotten the almost two weeks of strikes, sometimes violent and intense emotions, but they were indeed
happy to be out and about in the warm spring sunshine.

“In many ways, there were interesting parallels between what happened here over the past 12 days and the weeks that
immediately followed the occupation,” commented a young professional in the town. “There were the same arguments about loss of business
and the same issues had to be faced, but there was much more solidarity. There is a realization that we
are alone and, psychologically, people are more willing to resist.”

Not far from his office in the center of town, young people were sweeping the streets and tending a flower
bed—an example of the voluntary work which has become evident since the dismissal of the mayor, Karim Khalaf, by the
Israeli occupation authorities.

Despite the dire predictions of an escalation in unrest if Khalaf and his Nablus colleague, Bassam Shak’a, were dismissed—predictions that
came from both the army and the West Bank residents themselves—the military government has been able to achieve its goal
with little real trouble. Those in the government who pressed to “strike while the iron is hot” have been proved
right, it seems.

But one older resident who has followed the politics of his people for many years noted: “Professor Milson blundered when
he fired the two mayors. There were grumbles about Khalaf not doing anything for the town, and Shak’a had factional
problems in his town—their popularity was dwindling. Now, by singling them out again, the civilian administrator has made them into
heroes.

“Under Jordanian law, Milson could have called new elections. He could then have dismissed the councils and the mayors and
appointed special committees to run the towns for a year while the elections were prepared. No one would really have
objected to that and there would have been little sympathy for the people he wanted to get rid of.”

There apparently has been no serious post mortem about the events of the past week; the reaction to the dismissal
of the two mayors was strangely muted. Many Palestinian Arabs agree that Israel’s determination to actively interfere in their politics
and implement its own version of “autonomy” marks a turning point, and much of their talk is about the immediate
future.

Defense Minister Ariel Sharon and his civilian administrator, Menachem Milson, have repeatedly insisted that there is an alternative leadership in
the territories which is willing to enter into negotiations with Israel, and from conversations in Ramallah this week it seems
clear that there are indeed people waiting on the sidelines. But even the minimal preconditions they would demand from Israel
before making their move seem beyond the capacity of the present government.

I talked with three people who, for the sake of anonymity (which they requested), I will call the professional, the
businessman, and the student.
