Continued from page 1

at press time, including a number of responses on WebMicaitin facilities.

the Center,” but he would not guess as to the outcome of the vote. As a result of the motion,
a group of students is circulating a petition that the College maintain the studies. The Center was established in 1976
as an alternative curriculum for students interested in interdisciplinary study. According to a college pamphlet, the Center “provides appropriate educational
background for students of varying backgrounds, motivations, interests, and abilities.” Dr. Frank Bliss is the current dean of the multi-departmental
studies. Students interested in interdisciplinary study can enroll under the Center, but the Faculty is due to appoint a new
dean at the end of this year. The chosen dean appoints his own faculty. No one works more than half-time
at the Center with the exception of Dr. Bliss. Currently, seven faculty members teach one course per term at the
Center, making a total of two and one-half faculty positions, plus Dr. Bliss.

The American folk music tradition is a descendant of British Isles folk music. For the most part, the tunes are
simple one-voice diatonic melodies with an elementary chord structure. Folk music includes tunes that are sung and tunes that are
solely instrumental. The instrumentals almost always come from a tune that was once sung with words. These instrumentals are grouped
loosely as “fiddle tunes,” after the traditional primary lead instrument. The typical fiddle tune has two parts (though sometimes three
or more)—the “A” and the “B” parts. It is then performed: A, repeat; B, repeat; and so on until the
musicians feel they’ve had enough. More often than not, each repeat will be more or less a restatement of the
melody. Thus, the tune is two halves of a melody played over and over. This is a valid musical form,
but it is an elementary one, and one quickly grows tired of it.

Photo by Elizabeth Elkin

So, we who seek to play folk music must strive to do more when playing a tune than just rehash
a melody over and again. We owe it to our own musical potential to try to make our music as
interesting and exciting as we can. Realizing this, we are ready to take a look at a fundamental means of
developing music to a higher level—variation. To have variation in music means simply to take a previous theme and do
it differently. By the simple device of playing the melody differently each time in a fiddle tune, you have created
an interest that was not there in the repeat-repeat rendition. The audience now wonders, “what will happen next?” It keeps
them listening, and by working to develop our variation we have elevated the fiddle tune to a musical composition.

A simple variation which keeps the melody essentially intact, yet spices it up a bit, is to add ornaments—short grace
notes which do not interrupt the time flow of the piece but put new accent on the notes where they
are used. Variation can be simply changing registration by moving to a new octave or a new key. Notes may
be added to fill in slow measures. Rhythm can be varied in infinite possibilities, changing the tone, articulation, and accent
on notes. Leave the melody and improvise on the idea of the tune and its chord progression. Stretch your imagination.
The tune of the week is “Over the Waterfall,” another Old Time standard. Two basic variations are suggested as starting
points, along with some simple ornamentation on the chords.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, January 15, 1982
