Volume LCXIL, Number 13.

International Committee Confusion

Davidson’s first International Week (Jan. 13-16) may have passed without much general notice, but for the fledgling International Committee, it
meant a lot. Co-chairmen Pam Hawkins and Sue Roberts arranged activities including a panel discussion on South Asia, a pizza
dinner, and videotaped interviews with international students, which met with varying degrees of success. Still, International Week was experimental in
nature and exposed tensions which had been brewing within the Committee since the fall.

According to Hawkins and Roberts, from the beginning communication was poor and goals undefined. The first meeting of fall term
drew over sixty students and professors. British student Ant Goode, who attended the meeting, said, “Lots of suggestions were thrown
out but nothing was decided.”

Pam and Sue both said there were too many people at the meeting to effect any clear organization of objectives.
“Our biggest mistake was we tried to make all of those sixty people into a committee,” Pam said.

Members had diverse opinions about the committee’s aims. Cypriot Melis Nicolaides felt that the committee should have been responsible for
the socialization of the international students who come to Davidson, by providing “more excursions” and “an idea about what to
do on breaks and during the summer.” He stressed that the committee should be available for any problem that an
international student might encounter.

John Hackett, of Ireland, felt the Committee should not have attempted to group international students together often. He disagreed with
what he saw as a committee goal in over-emphasizing cultural differences. “The purpose is to come over [to the States]
and say that we’re all the same,” he said.

Student advisor Dean Sue Ross attempted to explain part of the conflict involving committee goals. She mentioned that some of
the international students “felt that the committee was formed just for them.” Co-chairman Roberts also suggested that the international students
might have formed misconceptions about the aims of the committee because of the original amount of attention focused on them
by the co-chairmen when they first arrived. Accordingly, several international students complained of being neglected in meetings and of frustration
with the organization of events. John Hackett said, “Sometimes they’d hold meetings and you’d never even hear about them.” However,
Hawkins and Roberts asserted that announcement posters had been hung in advance of every meeting.

When International Week arrived, communication problems peaked. “None of us were consulted about what was going on,” John Hackett said.
“No one told me anything about International Week,” Ant Goode added.

Despite the tensions, most international students said that they enjoyed the pizza dinner and some, like Helen Thorpe from England,
volunteered their services and took an active part in the events. Students noted that throughout the week, and in general
all year, Davidsonians remained open and friendly.

Hawkins and Roberts admitted that they expected the international students to take more initiative in the planning of events. “We
never offered... They never asked. Where does the blame fall?” Roberts noted.

Organizational difficulties which plagued the committee often gave rise to personality conflicts that further stifled communication between international students and
the co-chairmen. Nevertheless, both chairmen were positive about the group of international students this year.

Continued on page 5

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Elizabeth Elkin ‘85.

Photo

The Officers of several Patterson Court houses are concerned about the effect a proposed all-women’s eating house would have on
their houses. The Council on Campus and Religious Life recommended to College President Sam Spencer that the College charter a
new house. The presidents of Emanon and ETC are now against the proposal, although they signed a letter endorsing it
in the October 23, 1981 Davidsonian. They find that the present demand for eating house spaces with the uncertainty of
the Commons’ effect on Patterson Court membership, does not justify setting up an eleventh eating house. President Spencer is expected
to make a decision when he returns to campus next Wednesday. Dean of Students Will Terry, Chairman of the CCRL,
said that no study of the effects of a new eating house on the membership of existing houses has been
conducted.

Dean Terry defends the recommendation. He sees the issue as the conflict of two philosophies. “There are those who would
force the pattern of coed eating, and also a great many students who want all-women’s or all-men’s eating houses, as
evidenced by the success of the present houses. We don’t want to use Patterson Court to force the socialization of
students in ways they don’t want. A house should be able to stand on its own feet.” While he feels
that there is sufficient support for another all-women’s house, one of the present houses may have to fold.

Jane Alexanian, who co-authored with Anne Rollins and Kathy Kooker the proposal, said that 50 freshmen and 20 upperclassmen have
made a firm commitment to join the house. Since only two of these women are currently members of coed eating
houses, “it will not hurt any eating house,” she said. Business Manager Bob Currie recommended that the CCRL require a
two-year commitment from 75 girls before chartering the eating house. He said that it may cost $30,000 to refurnish Richards
or Bailey House as an eating house. Less than half of the total would be spent on the kitchen, he
said, although some of the original equipment which ARA Slater used is still in the houses. If one of the
existing eating houses were to fold, he said, its kitchen equipment could be used as replacements in the remaining houses.

Continued on page 5
