The Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) recommended on Monday, 14 December, that College President Sam Spencer accept proposals
from the Black Student Coalition (BSC) and from a group of students forming an all-women eating house for the use
of the two unoccupied eating houses on Patterson Court, according to Dean of Students Will Terry.

If President Spencer approves the BSC request, they will use their house as a setup for a hammer and poetic.

President Spencer is currently out of town. His secretary said that he will not make a decision until he returns
to campus in about three weeks.

Dean Terry and Associate Dean of Students Sue Ross said that the CCRL recommended the proposals because the groups have
an "expressed need." The Council also wanted social organizations to use the houses in keeping with the purpose of Patterson
Court.

According to a Business Office report, a new eating house would have to show "a student commitment that the house
can operate in the black," which could require: (a) a minimum two-year commitment from 75 full-time student members as the
house starts up, (b) willingness to be assessed to cover any deficit, and (c) ability to acquire initial working capital.
The College would spend about $30,000 to equip and furnish a new eating house.

Ann said that they thought getting a commitment from 75 students would be "no big problem." She pointed out that
there are 45 girls on Rusk’s waiting list who presumably would want to eat in another all-women house. Ann said
that if President Spencer accepts their group’s proposal, the new house would be in the self-selection process this spring. They
hope to start dining services next year. They plan to hold social events this spring to "bring the house together,"
she said. "Our social activities will be a lot like Rusk’s," she added.

BSC President André Kenniebrew said that if President Spencer accepts their proposal, they will use the house for studying, social
events, and as a meeting place. They sought a larger clubhouse than their present house on Jackson Court because the
BSC has grown to about 50 members, André said. They also feel that since Patterson Court is closer to the
main part of campus, students will be more likely to attend events there. "We want to bring in the rest
of the campus," André said. He said they also plan to have more band parties and activities that bring in
non-BSC members. Funds for the activities will come from the Activities Tax Council and BSC dues.

Five other groups made proposals for the use of the houses. The proposals were for an operations center for WDAY,
student housing, a fraternity without eating facilities, an international house, and the Women’s Center if the College converts the current
Women’s Center, the Kimmel house, to faculty or administration housing next year.

The CCRL recommended that the present BSC house on Jackson Court become an international house. French Professor George Poe said
that an international house would provide a special place for discussions and social functions concerning international issues. "These programs are
currently scattered all over campus." A foreign student recruited to coordinate such a program would live in the house with
an American student. Prof. Poe said that if the program is successful, the College might consider establishing it as a
permanent house.

The Educational Policies Committee (EPC) plans to vote Monday on a motion requesting that the faculty, in order to strengthen
the major departments, vote to discontinue the Center for Special Studies, according to Vice-President for Academic Affairs, Dr. Price Zimmerman.

Dr. Zimmerman did not feel it was appropriate to discuss the details of the proposal until the Committee had made
a recommendation, at which time a complete report will be issued.

If the Committee votes in favor of the motion, the proposal will be presented before the faculty at the next
meeting with a recommendation for approval, Dr. Zimmerman said. If the Committee rejects the motion, it will be dropped and
will not be presented to the faculty unless an individual faculty member brings it up.
