Tennis Hits Stride

The Wildcat tennis team finished the non-conference portion of its season Wednesday, losing 8-1 to N.C. State. The 'cats are
9-7 on the year, and Coach Jeff Frank feels his team is beginning to come around for the conference matches.

"I think we're playing better now than we’ve been at any other time this season," said Frank. "We’ve had some
problems, the most important being injuries and youth. We had some key injuries early on and that hurt us. We’re
also a very young team. We have one senior, two juniors, a sophomore, and two freshmen in the top six.
These freshmen have to get adjusted to college tennis. The competition is better and the schedule is rougher."

Doubles play was another area of concern cited by Frank. "Last year, we had three seniors in doubles, and they
all had excellent serve-volley games. This year, we have some players who are just as good singles players, but not
good in the serve-volley. We haven’t been able to get any real consistency, and we’re still looking for the right
combinations."

Sophomore Mark Nottingham, presently playing at No. 1, agreed with Frank’s assessment. "I know that Nevins Todd and I played
No. 2 doubles last year and I thought we were a very good second doubles. This year, I can’t say
that we’ve been anything above mediocre."

In singles play, there has been intense competition for the No. 1 spot. Freshman Sedge Grey played at No. 1
for the first part of the season. "Sedge was our No. 1, and I felt comfortable with him there," said
Frank. "He won our round-robin tournament in Florida rather handily. We had another series of challenge matches this past weekend,
and so now he’s playing No. 1. It may be to our advantage to have either Mark or Nevins at
No. 1 since they’ve seen the guy they'll be playing and remember them from last year. I feel good about
our singles situation, and our doubles are coming around. Overall for this part of the season, everything looks good."

Scott Beaver ’84

Tracksters Tune for Relays With Lynchburg, Voorhees

Many people consider the mile relay to be the most exciting event in the track and field program. It combines
the speed of the shorter races, the drawn-out excitement of a good distance race, and the depth and teamwork a
team needs to be truly successful. Coming as it does at the end of the meet schedule, the mile relay
also decides many meets, from local dual-meet rivalries to national championships. It is also an event in which Davidson’s track
teams have not fared well of late. Last Saturday’s meet with Lynchburg and Voorhees Colleges lived up to all these
statements about this most exciting of events with one exception: a Davidson team used the relay to wrap up a
commendable and victorious afternoon of competition.

Davidson’s young women’s track program has shown its strength and character in two successive outings thus far. An indication of
their strength came in the second event of the day Saturday, when Tamara Foreman, Marian Hill, and Elizabeth employed the
simple expedient of running away from their competitors in the 1500m run to finish first, second, and third in that
event. Many sterling performances followed. Laura Hills destroyed the field in the 400m run, finishing 3 seconds ahead of her
nearest rival. Mike Frankhouser won both the high jump and the discus by impressive margins. Jean Webb and Melissa Page
ran sparkling second laps in the 800m run to take first and second. Tamara Foreman rana gutsy race in the
400 meter intermediate hurdles (a race she had run only three times before) to win. Hill, Hargrove, and Susan Dresser
finished the 3000m run in that order. The only events in which the women had neither a first-place finisher nor
several scorers were the 100m hurdles, the long jump, the 100m dash, and the shot put: this out of a
total of 15 events.

The men, in contrast, had an uneven afternoon. Foreshadowing a difficult meet was the injury of high jumper Jeff Carter,
who turned his ankle the night before the meet and was forced to watch an event he could have easily
won. The men started off rough with bad passes and a third-place finish in the 440 relay. The uneven nature
of the meet was immediately in evidence with the next event. Danny Armistead, in the 3000m steeplechase, strung out the
field early to disallow anyone from tucking in behind him and shielding themselves from the wind. Armistead led Joe Sloop
and Lanny Smith to a sweep of the top three places in that event. Similarly, Frank Ivey and Jack Smith
bracketed the scoring positions in the 1500m. Other high points include a sweep of the 5000m by Rony McManus, Frank
Ivey, and Garry Sullivan and a second, third, and fourth place showing in the 800m by John Hoots, Dave Stosur,
and James Gelly.

Overall, Davidson’s performance can be exemplified by its workhorse Lance Sisco who won two events, the high jump and the
110m hurdles. In the latter, he continued his consistent series of races by hitting every single hurdle with his trailing
leg, but was to finish exhausted and out of the scoring places in the intermediate hurdles, a race in which
Dan Lindsey took a surprising third. Once again, Davidson’s lack of strength in the spring and weight events (the exceptions
being firsts taken by Clark Carter in the pole vault and Ray Sinclair in the shot put) caused them to
come to the final event, the mile relay, a close but unfavored second. Despite inspired legs by Stosur, Shaw, and
Hoots, Brian Brost was given the baton at the beginning of the final leg of the mile relay many yards
in arrears of Lynchburg. Brian, competing with a pulled thigh muscle, had managed a fourth-place finish in the 400m run
earlier but had clearly been pulling on only one leg for the last half of the race. He was not
able to catch Lynchburg’s Tinch Campbell, a half-miler, who finished sprinting and arm waving in 3:28.54.

Davidson’s women, however, put together three strong legs from Foreman, Webb, and Sharon Bryant, and Laura Hills began her tour
of the track some twenty yards in front of Lynchburg’s Phebe Phelps, who had won the 100 and 200m runs
earlier. Excitement mounted when it appeared as if Hills were being drawn back by Phelps down the windy back straight,
but Laura ran a strong last 150 meters and crossed the finish line waxen, pale, and victorious. She was swept
up by her teammates who congratulated themselves with a deserved victory lap, a fine close to a day of cold
and windy but exciting contests.

Both the men’s and women’s teams can be seen this weekend at the Davidson Relays, one of the largest track
meetings in the state. Davidson hosts its Relays Friday and Saturday, beginning with the women’s and men’s 10,000 meter run
on Friday evening at 6:00 and 7:00 and resuming on Saturday morning at 8:00. The meet will last until 6:15
Saturday evening.

by Jeff Hamilton
DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982
