N.Y. Times Removes Its Name From Best-Selling Guide to Colleges

Under criticism for irreverently grading 265 campuses, The New York Times has withdrawn its name from future editions of what was The New York Times Selective Guide to Colleges and Universities, and has offered to meet with aggrieved administrators to correct factual errors in the book.

The Times, however, is not the only would-be guide to colleges to take its lumps recently for poking fun at bad cafeteria food, dull communities, and rah-rah campuses. Even Yale’s irreverent Insider’s Guide to Colleges, a ten-year-old veteran of the wisecrack rating genre, is thinking about getting a little more serious.

The reason, says one editor, is that the jokes’ targets are too worried about survival to do much laughing.

“I think universities are more sensitive to criticism, especially with the enrollment picture the way it is now,” says Charles Straughn, editor of Lovejoy’s Guide to Colleges and Universities, a traditionally objective, comprehensive study of 3500 colleges published annually since 1945.

Lovejoy’s has “looked at the others, and it’s a tough act to follow. You leave yourself wide open for all kinds of criticism whatever you do (with a lighter look). I think we’ll stick to our objective approach.”

The Times did apparently leave itself wide open for criticisms from administrators who complained the book was little more than a “restaurant guide approach” riddled with factual errors and unfair, superficial judgments. What hurts most, many say, is that even though the tone is consciously irreverent, The Times’ lofty status gives the book a certain aura of objectivity.

“You just expect more from The New York Times,” says Roy Floyd, university relations director at the University of Tulsa.

“It’s a very serious matter for us. Here they are trying to rate an entire academic program, and they use a sarcastic, flippant attitude.”

Among the other schools to object to their evaluations in the book were Kentucky, Colby College, Rhode Island, Dartmouth, Baylor, Syracuse, Bard College, Carnegie-Mellon, Rochester, and Auburn.

“If you notice, most of the criticism has come from second- and third-ranked private colleges,” Times Education Editor Edward B. Fiske says. “All of the objective criticism—in the Christian Science Monitor and the Wall Street Journal—has been positive. Most of the critical mail has come from schools in very competitive markets.”

Fiske concedes “in a project as complex as this there will be some factual errors,” and is ready to correct them. He defends the book’s light tone by saying, “We tried to say, ‘What questions would a student ask when he is looking at universities?’ and answer them. The bulk of the book is what students said about their campuses.”

He says The Times is withdrawing its name from the book—which was and will continue to be published by Times Books—because “the book wasn’t written like a newspaper. Some people might say the food at Dartmouth is terrible. Some might say it’s good. It’s not the way it would be written in a newspaper.”

David Resnik and CPS

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9-April 1982