International Week ©

The four-day International Week, now in its third day, is focusing on international cultures and on making Davidson students more aware of other peoples. It was put together by various Union committees, primarily the International Committee. Some events include a panel discussion on Southeast Asia and a Mediterranean Potpourri of food at the Commons.

The International Committee was formed this fall and operates under the college union board. Pam Hawkins, co-chairperson of the committee with Susan Roberts, said the Union formed the International Committee because so few students have been abroad. “They’ve been brought up in a closed environment. In Davidson, it’s easy to get close-minded,” Pam said. Associate Dean of Students Sue Ross, along with other faculty members, suggested the formation of the committee. College President Sam Spencer strongly emphasizes international education.

French Professor George Poe has done research on group living for language students. He proposed an international house at the same time the International Committee submitted a proposal for one of the houses on Patterson or Jackson Court. The Council on Campus and Religious Life recommended to Dr. Spencer that the present Black Student Coalition house become an International House. Dr. Poe now supports the International Committee’s proposal. Any house would not be used as an eating place. It would serve, among other things, as a meeting place, reading room, and language drill session room.

The committee is now planning to meet with Dean Ross and some of the four-year international students to form bylaws for next year’s committee. The committee is also searching for a new chairperson for next year. The Union board will start interviewing candidates after February 1. Susan and Pam will stay with the committee through the spring. Suggestions and more participation from students are always welcome, Pam said.

By Lorelei Keif ’85

SPECIAL EVENTS

CAMPUS-WIDE CHRISTIAN CONFERENCE
“The Lordship of Jesus Christ,” with Bill Iverson, Hudson Hall, $5 registration.

FRIDAY 1-15 7-9:00 P.M.
SATURDAY 1-16 9-12:30 A.M.
SUNDAY 1-17 9-12:30 A.M.

INTERNATIONAL WEEK

FRIDAY 1-15
4-6:00 P.M. Talk & Slide show on Togo, West Africa, by Sofia Moreno, Spanish student. Center for Special Studies.

This presentation is about Sofia’s one-month stay in a jungle village where she helped construct the village social center. She will be sharing her experiences and relating how she adapted to the different attitudes, customs, and lifestyles of West African village culture.
6:30 P.M. Pizza Dinner with International Students. $1.00. Morrison Room. Sign up and pay at the Union Desk.

SATURDAY 1-16
All Afternoon: International Games (TBA) Union.

5-7:00 P.M. “A Mediterranean Potpourri” $3.65.

Featuring: Lapin à la Flamande, Pollo A La Chilindrón, Bacalhau à Gomes de Sá, Lasagna, Tabbouleh, Banitsa, Falafel, plus THE NEW WAVE MEDITERRANEAN ENSEMBLE “Tsoliades,” a traditional Greek band out of Charlotte.

THIS COMING WEEK--Scarce World Resources Symposium.