Gelly Objects To Objectivism

The U.S. invests the most in its people, which will pull the U.S. and the human race through an economic
slump and into the next century. Why, then, take a harsh necessity like a tax cut and elevate it to
the level of a virtue? Objectivism won't take us very far down the road.

Times have changed. It used to be that any mention of Ayn Rand was met with snickers and uncharitable comments
in a Davidson Philosophy class. But she has, it seems, come out of the woodwork now that Reagan and the
“new Right” are in vogue. Why is she not my cup of tea? It is because objectivism is an anti-social,
counter-productive, and pseudo-intellectual ideology. But let me explain.

I would define objectivism as an extremist ideology distinguished by its ego-centricity and simplistic worldview. It proclaims selfishness as a
virtue and despises “collectivism” in any form. Well, “collectivism” is school lunches, roads, Medicare, education, and things like unemployment compensation.
Not only are they prerequisites of a civilized society, they are necessary to a vastly complex economy such as ours.

Individuals cannot have complete control over the wide fluctuations of business cycles, for instance. Children ought to have something in
the way of education to counteract the mindlessness of television. Colleges and universities prepare men and women to enter the
workforce. In economics, expenditures on things like education and school lunches are called investment in “human capital.” These things aren’t
luxuries; rather, the health of the U.S. economy and society depends on them.

But objectivists see such “collectivism” as hateful and wrong. They believe Reagan’s tax cuts are morally good. But Reagan’s plans
to cut taxes are different from objectivist ideology. The unprecedented 25-year period of prosperity and economic growth called the “Post-war
Boom” is over; we have entered an era of scarcity. Tax cuts are a response to slower growth; it is
hoped they will lead to higher investment and more growth. To compensate for the decreased intake of revenue, the Federal
Government has cut many social expenditure programs. Not because it hates them, but because our idealism has been tempered by
harsh economic realities.

James Gelly '82

I’m no Reaganite; I just want to distinguish between cutting taxes and outright hating them. We may differ in our
opinions of how much taxation and government spending, but the position that there should be none at all is untenable.

What concerns me most about objectivism is its extremism. It hates collectivism and taxes almost as much as it hates
Communism and the Soviet Union. Unfortunately, the objectivist writers haven’t bothered to exactly learn anything about them. Objectivism isn’t academic,
it’s emotive. I’m no Communist, but it seems to me that the world has absolutely nothing to gain from blind,
ideological hatred of things like Socialism—especially when no attempt is made to think critically. The world economy is entering a
period of scarcity. Both superpowers are concerned with resources and with the maneuvers of the other. What, then, is the
point of asking for trouble with slander and hostility? The real battle between the two superpowers is being fought in
underdeveloped countries which desperately want a better quality of life. These nations don’t want weapons because they like to kill—they
want better lives. Neither superpower will “win” a nuclear war, but rather success will depend on which can better improve
the quality of life of the people.

Which brings me back to my starting point: in a world where resources are increasingly scarce and where national economies
are all struggling, there is little sense in adopting anti-social, judgmental, and simplistic philosophies which exalt selfishness. Extremism, likewise, is
only asking for conflict. Looking towards the future, it is not an arms race that will determine which superpower prevails.
Arms expenditures only eat up resources. It is that superpower which invests the most in its people which will pull
the U.S. and the human race through an economic slump and into the next century.

Western Retaliation

The American imposition of sanctions against the Polish military regime and the Soviet Union was moral and prudent but wisely
did not preclude tougher actions. Many question the efficacy and suitability of the actions taken. Bearing in mind domestic political
constraints, the U.S. actions were the minimum possible yet not completely innocuous. It is true that no level of U.S.
sanctions, unless instituted in concert with our Western allies, can inflict severe punishment on the Soviets or Poles. Yet are
we simply to “excoriate” our adversaries, “castigate,” “condemn,” or whatever synonym one wishes to use to express ineffectual rhetorical action?

Two Polish ambassadors viewed the egregious actions and then defected. Should we, members of the alliance, scrutinize the events any
less carefully than these two former important Communist party members? Their fears should be ours: the action taken was not
done so to later bring about reform but rather a suppression of a national movement with unforeseeably gloomy portents. By
all definitions, basic human rights were violated by the action. Lech Walesa remains under house arrest, thousands of union members
were arrested and placed in concentration camps, workers were manhandled and killed. Under the Helsinki Accord of 1975, whereby the
West recognized the de facto borders of post-World War II in return for a modicum of Soviet and other communist
regimes’ respect for basic human rights, all violations of human rights by signatories to the Accord are of concern to
and subject to appropriate action by the other signatories.

The U.S. acted in accordance and imposed the sanctions on food deliveries to Poland and certain other inconveniences to the
Polish government. If the U.S. action is indeed only symbolic, it at least expresses our outrage for the actions taken.

Turn to page 15.
