Soccer Tastes Bitter Reality: Two Tough Losses Break Momentum
By MARK ELMORE ’82

The word defeat doesn’t mean a thing until you’ve tasted success. —Richard Nixon

And the word defeat means even more when you lose a game that you counted on winning, and then have to drive home six hours in the cramped-then-add-one-more van. When you arrive home, it’s 5:00 a.m.—classes in three hours—and you have two tests in the next two days. Then the questions start. “How’d ya do?” and “What happened this weekend?” and “I heard ya lost to VMI, did ya beat Marshall?” Luckily, we all have plastic faces, so we put them on and smile. “No, lost 1-0 to Marshall; the referee belonged in a coffin and wouldn’t let us get near the goal to score without calling a foul. Those are the breaks, huh huh... wait until we play Furman next week; we’ll kill ’em.”

You know what I really think? I think that losing stinks. I think that fate stinks. I think that Nixon is right. Look at it this way: two weeks ago we were 7-0-4 and traveled to Pfeiffer. They completely outplayed us; that is, beat us to every ball, outshot us, and outhustled us, but we won nonetheless 1-0. Why? Because of our winning momentum. After a while, a team senses its own invulnerability and plays with a casual air of superiority even though the other team may be outplaying them. I can’t say that we deserved the win over Pfeiffer, but I daresay that we all knew we would win.

Next, we brought our winning momentum home and crushed conference rival University of Tennessee-Chattanooga 6-1. Half our team scored goals—even fullback Dan Blood. We were like a big boulder careening down the side of a mountain. Nothing would stand before us. 9-0-4. Undefeated and almighty. I am not saying that being undefeated made the team egotistical or cocky, but it does lead to a subtle expectation of victory in every match no matter how we play.

Then Coach Slagle got a call from the N.C.A.A. who was checking our record for possible post-season play in Tampa. One cannot help but dream of boarding a big jet, Adidas bag in hand, turning at the last moment, and blowing sweet little kisses to hundreds of hand-waving well-wishing females. I wallowed selfishly in our team’s...

Field Hockey Gears Up For Season End
By KARA GILMORE ’85

The LadyCats have played just three games in the past three weeks but will finish out big this weekend with a game Thursday at Duke, and three games Friday through Sunday at the Deep South Tournament. Two weeks ago, mired in the midst of a muddy field and a scoring slump, we dropped a 4-1 decision to rival High Point College. We were in the game all the way, as the score was 2-1 right up until the last few minutes when High Point added their final two tallies. Our one goal, scored by Suzy Klineman, was the only goal we had scored in the last two games.

Last Wednesday, against Catawba, however, we broke both our two-game losing streak and scoring slide, despite the referees’ attempts to prevent us from doing so. In the first half, we hit net three times to Catawba’s one, but at halftime the score was tied 1-1 as the referees had called back two of our goals. One by Amy Crittenburger was called back for being dangerous and the other by Mavin Martin for being shot outside the scoring circle (that was a very questionable call). The one goal that did stand was scored by Sarah Hart.

In the second half, Catawba took a 2-1 lead, as we were denied two more goals by the referees. Amy lost another one, as hers was called outside the circle this time. The fourth one that was called back was scored off a scramble in front of the goal. The call was offsides, an unusual call, considering that practically every...player from both teams was standing near the front of the goal. With 15 minutes left in the game and Catawba still ahead 2-1, we really pulled together and put on an offensive surge. The first result of this was a penalty stroke on which Amy scored with one of her famous flicks. The next result, with nine minutes remaining, was a goal by Carol Heppner, smashed in from the right side.

VMI

Friday night we quietly departed for the Thrifty Inn near VMI and talked bravely about our mission—a dangerous mission deep in the heart of enemy territory. Saturday morning was frigid and we arrived at VMI by 7:15 a.m. to eat and prepare for the match. It was exceptionally cold and windy, so we started a bit tenuously. Then they took a shot that bounced off Pat Woodward’s cold hands and followed it up for a quick score. We were floored; it was the only time in the season beside the Florida International game that we had been scored on first.

Throughout the rest of the first half and the entire second half we dominated. Considering the frozen field and cold wind, we played extremely well and outshot them 3-1 (three times as many shots on goal). But they scored again. Then Chris Roberts countered with a powerful shot and we were only down by one with four minutes left. Frantically we tried to score, but like the rest of the game, even open nets eluded us. We walked off the cold field to the vicious cheers of merry keydets.

Saturday and Sunday nights were spent in Huntington, West Virginia where we prepared for our revenge against Marshall. Our record had been blemished, and we would retaliate. By Monday night the team was supercharged and ready. So was Marshall and they came out like bucking bulls. Again, our opponents scored first and we shuffled to the locker room at halftime down 0-1 and angry. The officiating was atrocious and their players fouled like convicts, but it didn’t really matter because we were losing and we weren’t supposed to be.

The second half was painfully frustrating; we could get the ball near their goal, but we never really threatened them with any dangerous shots. We overran balls in desperation and mis-hit passes in haste. Nothing seemed to click like it always had before. With forty seconds left you could feel the despair in everyone. The team raced with reckless abandon, the bench silently gathered sweats and shoes and the coach just stared into the high stadium lights. After the horn, we all walked together in quiet defeat to the stiffness of the locker room, where the season seemed erased. We had lost again, the second time in a weekend.

Saturday, the Cat travel for another Southern Conference match with Furman, and next Wednesday, we are host to the Citadel. These are the last two Southern Conference games of the year, so please support your soccer team.

The defense held tough the rest of the way, cemented by sweeper Mebane Atwood, and we won—the game refused to be denied—3 to 2. Tuesday in our last home game of the season, we dominated visiting Converse and shut them out 3-0. The four seniors on the team: sweeper Mebane Atwood, center-halfback Amy Crittenburger, forward Carol Heppner, and goalie Cathy Morell all played admirable games and left their fans with a few more memorable moments. Our three goals were scored by Mavin Martin, Carol Heppner, and Lou Hamilton. We had numerous other good shots and scoring opportunities, but their goalie really came through and prevented us from running away with it.

As stated before, we wind up the season with four tough games this weekend: two against Duke, one against Clemson, and one against Carolina Club. We are looking forward to a tough, but (we hope) rewarding trip.