Conservatism NOT Just a Pathological Condition

Albeit sarcastically, William F. Buckley, Jr. states in *Up From Liberalism*, “I am interested in the Liberal approaches to the conservative dissent. I think they fall into three general categories. They are 1) Conservatism does not exist. 2) Conservatism does exist, but it is not an intellectual problem; it is one of pathology. 3) Conservatism does exist — as a lowering political force that threatens to ring in a new Dark Age.” Admittedly, Buckley’s notion of conservative dissent and the first category listed above do not apply presently considering the election of Reagan and the rise of the so-called “New Right;” his points do, however, broadly apply with respect to liberal views regarding traditional conservative policy stances.

One such view concerns the defense budget. Those of a liberal persuasion discuss and subsequently reject the Reagan Administration’s defense budget on the basis of raw defense allocations. According to Anthony Lewis and company, the minds comprising an Administration which proposes to earmark 29 percent of federal outlays in fiscal 1983 for defense purposes must be diseased and backward in an age when the poverty and psychological conditions of the populace must be accorded top priority. To liberals, such percentage allocations necessarily represent a “deviation from a healthy or normal condition,” which is how Random House defines pathology. A defense budget in excess of $200 billion is entirely objectionable and inexcusable to Lewis, etc. But, simply the raw size of defense allocations is not an acceptable argument versus military spending increases.

The typical argument against defense expenditures centers on raw spending levels and percentages in comparison to similar levels for health, education, and welfare. Such bickering is simply that. The average citizen, and particularly one of a definitive liberal perspective if that term holds any significance, inevitably discusses federal outlays only in terms of raw allocation figures and percentages with no further substantiation. This approach involves priorities which in turn involve ambiguous ideological viewpoints. For example, the liberal attempts to philosophically defend health, education, and welfare increases, whereas the conservative resorts to the same tactic regarding decreased government intervention in the private sector and defense increases. This leads to the conclusion that “poverty is a more significant problem than the international Communist/Soviet threat” and vice versa — a never-ending argument.

No conservative has ever been convinced by wholly philosophical arguments offered by liberals; nor do liberals switch camps after a conservative exposition on the defense situation (e.g. - Years of relatively low military spending vis-a-vis massive expenditures by the Soviets have forced the recent U.S. increases and/or the need for a solid national defense for deterrence certainly merits a defense budget in excess of $200 billion for a nation of the size and wealth of the U.S.). After examining spending levels and the Soviet arms buildup over the past 25 years in greater detail, such a conservative stance seems realistic to me, but I also recognize that liberals could hardly accept my rationale. One often hears liberal Democratic ideologues cite percentage comparisons.

*DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982.*When espousing health or welfare increases, they could gain real support by examining specific defense allocations and highlighting inefficiency, waste, needless systems, etc. (Social welfare corruption and inefficiency seem to have been examined a bit more closely.) Why not scrutinize the specifics of proposed defense expenditures and criticize budget proposals intelligently as opposed to an imprecise, comparative approach? Simply stated, I am in general agreement with the proposed overall budgetary allocations for defense, but find the specifics of the Administration’s (Weinberger) defense plans more objectionable. Essentially, the following represents homework for armchair liberals, but such work probably wouldn’t be accomplished otherwise. For purposes of brevity, I would here point out three objections to Weinberger’s proposals with regard to (1) the B1 bomber, (2) the M1 battle tank, and (3) the Navy’s P3 patrol plane.

The Administration has proposed that $4.8 billion be spent on the B1 bomber, but sizable amounts have also been set aside for duplicative weapons. Millions would be channeled into the F15 and F16 fighters, both new bombers, $864 million would purchase cruise missiles to replace the B1, and nearly $500 million would be appropriated to upgrade the B52. Why spend $1.5 billion (app.) on duplicative systems when $4.8 billion is poured into the new B1? Secondly, although $230 billion would purchase new lightweight tanks for the Rapid Deployment Force, no cutbacks have been forwarded in the proposed purchase of 7,000 M1 battle tanks. The Administration’s budget yields $2 billion to buy 776 M1s, which are ponderous, heavy tanks and somewhat outdated. Lastly, $363 million is questionably set aside to fund the Navy’s P3 patrol plane. $363 million despite the fact that the Navy will not need new P3s for five years. The Pentagon had decided to stop the P3 program but has since reinstated the funding plans. Other examples could be offered, but the point is clear. With some examination, the shortcomings of the Administration’s defense plans can be identified and publicized. It seems that such an approach is logical and acceptable and should be employed by anti-Administration doves in opposing defense allocations for fiscal 1983. (e.g. — Channel these funds away from inefficiency in the Defense budget toward health, welfare, etc.) The Right must be logically refuted and not written off as a pathological condition. Perhaps conservatives would lend an ear to liberal barking if armchair liberals utilized such a realistic, penetrating approach. One can only imagine!

by Van Beck ‘82

Europa and the Bull Market

Prometheus bound to a second mortgage.
The wisdom of the ages cannot help us
To balance our checkbook.
Our Caesar has left Gaul undivided,
Preferring instead to partition the classes.
But stay. There are still heroes.
Only there are no common folk,
Awestruck, to perpetuate them.
Chosen men still meet destiny,
But their epics are far too lengthy
And sound, for all the world, like annual reports.
Oh, the accountant sings songs sublime
To lull and appease Pythagoras.
And the typist beats time,
Rousing those on campaigns who lay siege
To market shares in other territories.
Whilst gods do battle over the futures.

by James Gelly ‘82