America’s Voice in Poland -

I conducted a telephone interview last week with Dr. Sandor Kiss, head of the Hungarian division of Voice of America,
an official radio service of the United States government which broadcasts to Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. Dr. Kiss,
a leader in the 1956 Hungarian revolt, was imprisoned for his political beliefs but escaped to the US with his
family. I questioned Dr. Kiss about VOA’s influence and role in Eastern Europe, especially in Poland, about Europe’s and the
US’s responses to the Polish crisis, and about his predictions concerning future dissidence in Poland and other Soviet Bloc countries.
He emphasized that he could speak as a private citizen, but not as a representative of VOA.

During the Polish crisis, VOA increased its broadcast time from two and one-half to seven and a half hours daily.
Dr. Kiss emphasized the importance of these broadcasts which give the Poles information not available from the Polish press, such
as the position of the Catholic Church and Western opinions about the imposition of martial law. The Poles, he said,
want to know the US viewpoint. They give VOA more credibility than Radio Free Europe, which broadcasts from Western Europe,
because it is the official broadcasting organization of the US. Poles and other Eastern Europeans, according to Dr. Kiss, look
to the US as the leader of the Western world.

The Soviet Union, as early as the Afghanistan invasion, attempted to jam these broadcasts, and has continued to do so.
This is in direct violation of the Helsinki accords, an agreement made in August 1975 among thirty-two European nations, Canada,
the US, and the Vatican, Dr. Kiss said. In these accords, Communist countries agreed to allow a freer flow of
information between the East and West and more freedom for their citizens. Soviet jamming of radio broadcasts, three times as
expensive as the broadcast itself, is not completely effective. VOA uses five or six different shortwave frequencies, all of which
cannot be blocked at one time. Dr. Kiss said any successful jamming seems not to have affected the Poles’ strong
spirit.

He thinks Reagan’s economic sanctions against the USSR were appropriate, but said the US should apply more forceful and extensive
sanctions, such as a complete grain embargo against the Soviets and the Polish government. He emphasized that the cooperation of
the Free World is vitally important to the effectiveness of any US action. The West, he said, should make the
Soviets aware that the present situation in Poland is unacceptable and that continuing to enforce martial law will exact a
heavy economic price. He added that the Soviets will understand the position of the West only if it unites and
that the Soviets will compromise with Solidarity only under Western economic pressure.

Western Europe, according to Dr. Kiss, has not been effective in dealing with the crackdown in Poland. Its response was
not strong enough and too late. He believes it is definitely vital to the future of Western Europe for the
free world to condemn this blatant violation of human rights and freedoms.

Dr. Kiss also commented on the peace movement in Western Europe which, he said, has subsided somewhat since the military
takeover. One should not, he emphasized, exaggerate the sentiment of neutrality among the Europeans. The majority of the European population
does not support neutrality. Many of the Communist parties in Western Europe have openly condemned the imposition of martial law,
he added.

Dr. Kiss believes that open dissidence in Eastern Europe may subside for a short time but will resume again with
an increased hatred of Soviet policies. An underground resistance movement, he said, already exists in Poland. The revolutionaries are printing
newspapers and making statements to Western newspapers. They are willing to compromise, but not without conditions. He sees the situation
in Poland as only a temporary setback for Solidarity. The Poles, he said, will never accept the conditions which existed
before August 1980, when Solidarity challenged the government by forming an independent trade union. The Polish people have the opportunity
to develop a freer system, but can do so only with support from the West.

Dr. Kiss commented as well on the economic and political ineffectiveness of the Communist system. The economic reforms in Hungary,
he said, are functioning well because of the adoption of Western management and know-how. He sees the Polish situation as
a fight between the Free World and the outmoded, but militarily organized, Communist system.

The idea Dr. Kiss emphasized most strongly was that the alliance of the West is the only way to stop
Soviet oppression and aggression. The future of the world, he said, depends on the devotion of today’s youth and the
next generation to democracy. There is no perfect system, but there is no comparison between democracy and totalitarianism. Because the
people of the Western world have not experienced the oppression that exists in Communist societies, he concluded, they undervalue democracy
and underestimate the negative results of totalitarianism.

Dr. Kiss has lived under totalitarianism and has felt the oppression of such a system. Perhaps those of us in
the West who try to ignore the goals and ideology of Communism should listen to those who have actually lived
under its iron hand. Perhaps we should think a little more often about the freedom we have, what it means
to our lives, and what it is worth.

Julie Cheek ’84

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982
