What Does It Take to Survive?

Lafayette Diggs, who survived a Liberian coup, is teaching here this term

By JOHN KROTCHKO ’83

The coup struck like a flash of lightning in the night—sudden, unexpected, and fierce. In the early morning hours of
April 12, 1980, soldiers filled the streets of Monrovia, the capital city of Liberia. They stormed the Executive Mansion and
killed the President. In a matter of hours, the ruling class, which had dominated the country for over a hundred
years, was stripped of all power and influence, declared defunct, and banned. The master sergeant seized the reins of government
and called for the roundup of his newly disinherited enemies. The day of reckoning had come.

Lafayette Diggs, an ex-foreign service officer of the William R. Tolbert government, was walking down the street in Monrovia the
next day when he was approached by soldiers. They had been looking for him. He was arrested, stripped naked, and
paraded down the street at gunpoint for an “interview” with the commanding general of a nearby military encampment. This was
the typical treatment, and Diggs knew that such “interviews” were little more than the formal preliminaries to imprisonment or even
execution. But when he was brought before the general, he was surprised to hear him ask the soldiers, “Where did
you find Mr. Diggs?” When they answered, the general ordered that Diggs be released and provided a military escort home!

In the terrible days that followed, the military captured almost every other person who had any affiliation whatsoever with the
toppled Tolbert government, including high-ranking military officers. In the horrified presence of the international press, thirteen men were marched to
the beach, tied to telephone poles, and shot to death. The rest were imprisoned. Some died in prison, and some
of those later released emerged permanently disabled.

“When I came to the United States in the fifties, I found out that I was...not a member of the
‘in’ group. It gave me a completely different understanding of what it means to suppress people.”

Lafayette Diggs, however, remained a free man, and after a period of hardship, established himself in private business as the
assistant manager of an electrical appliances company. This winter, he is at Davidson College teaching in the Center for Special
Studies. In Liberia, he leads a relatively quiet life with his wife and two daughters. Most of his former government
colleagues are gone.

How did this twenty-year veteran of a government violently toppled by the military manage not only to survive but to
emerge relatively unscathed from the turmoil? One of Diggs’s favorite sayings is, “Only the lucky survive.” He did not know
the general who released him and could not understand why he had been so lucky. But luck, good or bad,
had little to do with the reasons for the Liberian coup d’état, and less with the circumstances of his release
than he knew.

Liberia is a small country on the western coast of Africa, with a population of about 1,860,000. It is relatively
young, as countries go. During the 1820s, two American philanthropic societies organized groups of freed black slaves to return to
Africa and begin a new life there. In 1822, the first ex-slaves arrived on the coast of what is now
Liberia, on the “Ivory Coast,” and colonized the area with support and encouragement from the United States government. They established
a healthy trade economy; rubber and cocoa developed as major export products and before long the American commonwealth petitioned for
colonial status. Reluctant to assume the responsibility for an African colony, the U.S. instead encouraged the settlers to declare independent
statehood for themselves, and in 1847 Liberia, the “land of liberty,” was born.

From the onset of colonization, however, there existed a distinct cultural gap between the American blacks and the indigenous black
population. With superior weaponry, wealth, and education, the Americans attempted to Westernize and Christianize...the indigenous people (a pattern, Diggs noted,
which was repeated throughout Africa during that time). The social, cultural gap between the “Congo people,” as they were later
called, and the indigenous groups remained wide, despite intermarriage and population mixing. The settlers were the wealthy, educated, socially elite;
their closely-knit families controlled government and property. They ruled over the larger majority of poor, uneducated, predominantly Moslem natives. Diggs
interprets the 1980 coup in this light: "The Liberian settler elite became so complacent, they were so satisfied with the
so-called 'stability' of Liberia that they just forgot that what they had been doing for 130 years was actually suppressive
to the vast majority of the Liberian population."

In contrast with the elite settlers, the Liberian army has always been comprised of the lower class. It seemed obvious
to Diggs that a toppling of the elites was only a matter of time. The insight with which he, unlike
almost everyone else in the Tolbert government, viewed the situation can be traced back to his experiences as an American
scholar and a foreign service officer. Diggs left Liberia in the 1950s to study at Williams College in Massachusetts. He
was a young man from a prestigious Liberian family that was ensconced in a closed, isolated society. He had little
knowledge of the outside world. What he experienced in American society and at Williams changed his life.

“When I came to the United States in the fifties, I found out that I was considered as a person
who was not a member of the ‘in’ group,” he said. “It gave me a completely different understanding of what
it means to suppress people. That was part of my education here. You think you are somebody at home and
you come to the United States and find out you are nobody.” Despite the racial prejudice he experienced in America,
his experience here was far from negative. He credits Williams College with completing his education and significantly expanding his world
view. Upon his return to Liberia, he joined the Foreign Ministry and began a career as a foreign service officer.
Between 1956 and 1979, he served in various diplomatic capacities to several African nations, including Mali, Lagos, Ethiopia, Guinea, Kenya,
Nigeria, and Uganda. In addition, he served in various capacities as Liberian representative to the United Nations.

As Diggs’s career progressed and his foreign experiences broadened, he tried to warn the Liberian government of the dangerous social
injustices predominating in his country. But his efforts proved futile. “I tried,” he said. “Sometimes I felt just like Jeremiah,
a voice crying in the wilderness. Nobody wanted to listen to me. Nobody believed me.” Diggs’s perception of the Liberian
situation manifested itself in the way he related to people both home and abroad. He was careful to treat his
subordinates with sensitivity and respect, among peers who did not hesitate to have subordinates whipped to settle a disagreement. He
was considered something of a naive maverick, yet, he finally learned, it was this kind of naivete that saved him
on the day of the coup.

Before resigning over personal disagreements with the Tolbert government in 1979, Diggs held the post of Executive Director of the
1979 Summit Conference of the Organization of African Unity, held for the first time in Liberia. One of the many
government employees who worked under Diggs during the preparation for the summit was the army general before whom Diggs was
brought on the day of the coup. Diggs never knew him, but the man knew Diggs and remembered him, and
consequently released him. Diggs has another favorite saying: “It is nice to be important, but it is more important to
be nice.”
