To The Editor:

As a participant in the El Salvador Protest of March 27 in Washington, D.C., I was pleased by The Davidsonian’s
effort to cover the event in last week’s issue, but somewhat disappointed by the inaccuracy of much of that coverage.
I refer, in particular, to Jeff Mann’s article (“El Salvador—Déjà Vu”), which portrayed the event as a mishmash convocation of
unorganized splinter groups undermined by widely divergent interests, corrupted by bourgeois capitalistic values, and all but oblivious to the central
issue: “U.S. Out of El Salvador.” Mann’s reaction was one of disillusionment and cynicism. He is entitled to his opinion,
but, lest it seem accurately representative of the day, I would like to point out a few things.

It is true that the array of different speakers at the podium bombarded us with the angry rhetoric of every
issue profits off idealistic protesters, while various groups papered the crowd with causes. And after a three-mile march to the
White House, it was more of the same. From this perspective, a negative reaction was inevitable.

But this impression of the protest neglects a crucial element of appraisal: the 23,000 people who came that day to
protest U.S. military aid to El Salvador. It was this overwhelming presence and purpose that we shared with the public
on our march through the streets of Washington, not, fortunately, the menagerie of speeches. It is true that there were
not as many hippies as in the sixties. Instead, there were church groups, medical and divinity students, community and campus
coalitions (like ourselves), and plain old middle Americans from Maine to the Midwest. This crowd, consisting of greater socio-economic variety,
seemed to represent the feelings of a very broad base of American society.

To experience the romance of some ideal sixties protest (hippies, tear gas, etc.) was not the point of my going,
nor that of many others, although I too felt the souring of “idealistic yearnings.” Ultimately, my contribution to and sharing
of active, public concern with 23,000 Americans over U.S. military policy made the experience both positive and powerful, not to
be obscured by frustrated expectations or illusions of “how it used to be.”

John Krotchko '83

---

A Reply To Jeff Holland

To the Editor:

As the chairmen of the SGA Weekend, we felt the need to set you straight, as well as any others
who share the same misconception with you, about the postponement (made in mutual agreement with the President of F&M and
the social chairman of Fiji) of Hattie’s Night. Our major reason for the postponement was the fact that about 90
prospectives who visited were under age. Not knowing how familiar you are with the state law, we would like to
remind you that it is illegal for anyone under the age of 18 to consume alcohol, beer included. Although we
knew these students were responsible people, we felt it was irresponsible on the part of the college to schedule a
party in which they could not participate. The purpose of the weekend was to enable the students to make a
more informed and educated college choice; therefore, we had planned a balanced program of academics and social activities in which
they could participate. Need we remind you that college is held accountable for its actions in situations such as this?
We wished not to stifle the fun of Hattie’s Night, but to remain within the law and create fun for
the prospectives and Davidson students alike. The image that we have to destroy, as you so eloquently put it, is
the one that you...Yourself, have of Davidson.

Ester Kim Warren Overbey (Chairmen of the 1982 SGA Prospective Students Weekend)

To The Editor:

Welcome back to the best part of winter term from sunny Kenya! All of us here want to thank those
of you who took the time to make cards for us at the Union Christmas Party, and especially the “Y”
for thinking of us and sending them. Holidays away from family are always a bit hard, but y’all made ours
so much better.

Thanks from,
Grace Morgan
Sally Summey
A.T. Miller
Vince Parker
Bill Wilson
Chris Moore
Shelly Ballantine
Chris Elwood

Bring out what is interesting and diverse in us. If the eating houses are “inefficient” or “inconvenient” it is because
they are human-created and operated by you and your friends. If this intangible quality that eating houses have seems like
make-believe to you, consider that it is all that makes college life tolerable for a lot of people. The eating
houses foster involvement and help to round out what is often a one-dimensional Davidson lifestyle. To believe that a student
body that eats in a big open cafeteria is more independent is not to think clearly through the situation. In
an eating house, as one person in 65, you can affect the way your house is run. And as 65
united people, you can have an effect on this campus. This is independence that can make a difference. This is
strength that can only diffuse and wither away among the well-lit, vast expanse of Vail Commons. You at the Commons
who proclaim loudly your independence should consider the dependence you have on the college for nearly your every bodily function
and the loss of individuality that may go along with that. You lead us toward a more homogenous, voiceless, powerless
student body which is truly hard to imagine.

—Frazier Worth ‘82

To the Editor:

I have observed among some who have chosen to eat in the Commons a feeling of independence arising from their
non-participation in Patterson Court. I believe this pride is misplaced because choosing the Commons over an eating house increases your
dependence on the College and decreases the strength of your voice on this campus. Apparently, those elite who make the
decisions about our College’s future believe that a better Davidson is a Davidson where students eat, sleep, and do their
laundry, etc. in massive and very expensive college facilities. I believe that a student who has this kind of dependency
on the college will have less confidence in his ability to do things for himself. This dependency also increases the
already high pressure for conformity on this small campus to intolerable levels. Off-campus housing and the eating houses offer for
some of us a chance to quit playing student for a few days and try to be humans. They offer
chances for privacy and responsibility that are rare for Davidson students. Off-campus housing and the eating houses function as advertisements
for letters from our readers. We try to print all letters that are of general interest, but we adhere to
these four guidelines:

(1) We require that letters be in our hands by Tuesday 7 pm.
(2) We require that letters be neatly written.
(3) We require that letters be signed and include the author's phone number and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editor.
(4) We reserve the right not to print letters that (a) function as advertisements, (b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or
inside jokes, (c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in many letters printed on the same topic.

The Doughboys and the Slimshafts decided to take their Easter Break early this week and not grace us with their
wit.

—DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 9 April 1982
