The 'sonian Looks to a Sister

A friend writes, “Hey, what’s the deal with The Davidsonian? I mean, why don’t you call yourself the ’sonian? I
think everyone will get the general idea. Just wanted to let you in on it.” We think that’s a good
idea. Next time you write us a letter, we're the 'sonian.

Speaking of abbreviations, there’s another small, liberal arts college newspaper in Minnesota that calls itself the ’tonian. The ’tonian is
the ‘sonian of Carleton College. Since they are such a similar school to Davidson—a sister college, one might say—we thought
you might like to hear what happens in the [Carle]’tonian.

A fair number of articles in the 'tonian could easily appear in the 'sonian. All those articles about professors' new
books, new shows in the art gallery, and hate mail to the editor look familiar. Several articles would, however, look
somewhat out of place in the 'sonian. Consider the following from the “Socialist group organizes” article on October 8, 1982:

“Today’s [Carleton’s] student body is politically more sophisticated than that of twenty years ago, so while one might not expect
to encounter the ardent idealism of the 60’s, the first meeting of the Carleton chapter of the Democratic Socialists of
America was nonetheless characterized by vague organization... As the meeting progressed, however, a strong desire for action surfaced during a
lively debate, between the thirty-four people present, around the role of leftist politics in America.”

The article goes on to give some history of the Democratic Socialists of America, its forming as a result of
a merger of the Democratic Socialist Organizing Committee (DSOC) and the New American Movement (NAM). The students quoted have rather
definite political ideas and are willing to state them publicly.

Throbbing Gristle: Entertainment through Pain
By A. GRAHAM MEADOR ’85

The absence of a ’sonian last week so depressed me and was such a monumental (!) Bad Thing that I
had to leave town. I took a field trip of sorts, seeking all the while Good Things to bring back.
Call me a voyageur du goût. Here’s what I discovered as a result of my travels: Davidson College, in Davidson,
North Carolina, is the only place in the entire country—perhaps this continent—with any Good Things. (I traveled a lot last
weekend.)

I will restrict my comments to the North, however, for two reasons: a) California is obviously a Waste Land of
degenerate tofu eaters and needs no elaboration; and b) some people seem to think the North is a real hot
place to be. Well, it absolutely is not. I hardly know where to begin; so many Bad Things come to
mind. Most important, there’s all this Bad food from other lands. The whole time I was up there, I never
saw a single French fry (see? They’ve even given American things foreign names); one night I had to eat this
“Indian” food that looked like all the Bad Things in the universe after ten seconds in a Cuisinart. Then there’s
the highly touted Northern culture. I’ve...never seen so many underheated museums full of gunky-billboard-looking oil paintings, nor have I ever
seen people trying to pass off TV as art. One piece (or show or whatever they call these hunks of
videotape) reminded me of this HBO late-night magic show I saw last summer: lots of naked women smiling and holding
cubes. Even more bad is the lack of good places to buy things; they’re all too small and smell like
old dead plants and carpet. Worse, these emporiums try to make old, beat-up things seem good. Comment made by a
chic type overheard at Otherworld Paint Co. (a typical uninformative clothing store name): “I just love this moth-eaten amorphous mass
with the imitation leopard-fur collar. And it’s only $85.”

This article, or anything like it, would not stand a chance of making it in the ’sonian. Not only are
students here apolitical, if they have a stand, they generally keep their mouth shut. We would be glad to publish
the article, it is just that it would not be written. Not always, but by and large most students here
are pretty quiet. Some of the other articles in the ’tonian are ’sonian doubtfuls. The gay record review, the article
on women’s intercollegiate soccer, and the exciting chase of a streaker in the arboretum; all sound a little out of
place here. I am not saying that all these things are good or necessary for the Davidsonian but only pointing
out that not every small liberal arts school isolated in an utter cultural void is quiet and complacent as Davidson.
Sure it is quiet enough here to study twenty-four hours a day, but would not a little intellectual variety be
interesting?

I do not support the SDA. I do, however, support the intellectual livelihood of individuals and groups that challenge everyday
ideas. By the way, that ad asking for all eighteen-year-olds to register in this week's issue was run free of
charge. The Selective Service System asked us to run it as a public service announcement. What do you think? Should
we support Selective Service Registration? Free of charge? Drop us a line or consider turning in an Opinions article before
Tuesday on whether we should advertise free for the SSS, not run their ad, or run it and bill them.
Remember it is your money. And remember we are the ’sonian next week.

Finally, I got the impression on my journey that the North doesn’t welcome visitors in the first place. This I
gathered simply by looking out the plane window while landing. These people build international airports on beaches, for God’s sake;
all I saw out my window was a large, fully-lit coal barge moving along at about eye level, and vast
amounts of slate gray water stretching out for all eternity. Probably half of the incoming flights to this airport-in-the-bay end
up in the bay, squashing thousands of outsiders on a regular basis.

Semester System Trimester System

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 29 October 1982
