Graebner Speaks Out

Reynolds Lecturer espouses pragmatism and objectivity

By SCOTT EBLIN ’83

The need for pragmatism and objectivity in United States foreign policy was the overarching theme of four speeches delivered at
Davidson by Dr. Norman Graebner, the Reynolds Lecturer for this fall term. Graebner, who is Stetinnius Professor of History at
the University of Virginia, has been a specialist in American foreign policy for the last thirty years.

The basis of Graebner’s approach to the analysis of U.S. foreign policy was put forth in his first address at
a Monday luncheon in the 900 Room. Speaking on “Obligation vs. Interest in American Foreign Policy,” Dr. Graebner asserted that
it is the task of a president to determine whether a potential foreign policy action is of essential or secondary
importance to the national interest. If that action is essential, it will “serve the nation in all its facets.” If,
on the other hand, the action is of secondary importance, it is usually more ideological in its bent and, in
Graebner’s view, “serves an idea not a nation.” Dr. Graebner asserted that until the presidency of William McKinley, the U.S.
had “an amoral approach to world affairs” in which action was only initiated when it was related to the national
interest. In Graebner’s opinion, this policy was abandoned when McKinley annexed the Philippines for humanitarian reasons and because of a
perceived “responsibility to the poor Filipinos.” Graebner asserted that from this point on, American foreign policy has for the most
part “pursued the abstract rather than the specific.” In this regard, Dr. Graebner cited the parallels between Woodrow Wilson’s belief
that “America was born free that man might be free” with the 1964 Republican Party platform which stated that there
must be in the world “a victory for freedom, (and that) there can be no peace, no security until this
goal is won.” Referring to these statements, Dr. Graebner rejected their implications that the U.S. must be the savior of
humanity, because the U.S. “can’t establish peace and justice for the whole world.” “We have,” he said, “lived every day
in a world with oppression and it hasn’t bothered us in the least.” In determining foreign policy, Graebner believes the
U.S. should recognize that “many of the problems of human society are simply inherent” in history, geography, religion, economics, and
the like. This, in Graebner’s view, eliminates a U.S. obligation to help all humanity because “no nation is obligated to
do what it can’t.”

Graebner’s call for pragmatism extended into his next lecture, “Divided America in Quest of Security.” Dr. Graebner began this talk
by noting that while there has not been a complete consensus, most post-war American decision-makers have regarded the threat from
the Soviet Union as a direct strategic challenge to the U.S. and as an indirect challenge manifested by Soviet intervention
in the Third World. This latter threat has periodically been ignored by U.S. presidents, but with the 1979 Soviet invasion
of Afghanistan, it has been at the forefront of U.S.-Soviet tensions. Graebner pointed out that the essence of the Carter
Doctrine—that the U.S. will meet any Soviet challenge for world oil supplies—was expanded by the incoming Reagan administration into a
view that the Soviet Union was the instigator of civil unrest around the world and that it was the responsibility
of the U.S. to meet this challenge. The Administration’s early emphasis on El Salvador and the potential of a “domino
effect” in which Central America would gradually become communist was cited by Graebner as a result of this view. Dr.
Graebner criticized the Administration for its policy of tough talk and large defense spending when there had been no change
in the status quo of the last 30 years vis-à-vis a direct Soviet threat to U.S./European security. Graebner noted that
since World War II, “the U.S. integrity of borders and those of its allies have remained secure. Losses in the
Cold War, if any, have been very small indeed.” The Reagan Administration has, in Graebner’s view, realized in the last
few months that the given realities of the world’s balance of power require pragmatism and not ideology in determining U.S.
foreign policy. Given these realities, Graebner asserted that far from influencing any Soviet action, the current administration, like the Carter
Administration, will have to live with Soviet action which does not directly threaten the U.S. or its allies.

Dr. Graebner’s third lecture dealt with the role of Henry Kissinger in recent U.S. foreign policy. Graebner commended Kissinger for
his great vision and skill in saving lingering problems from the Cold War, with the establishment of U.S./Soviet détente. Initiation
of the Middle East peace process was also cited by Graebner as a major achievement of the former Secretary of
State. While Graebner criticized Kissinger for his lack of interest and expertise in the increasingly important area of global economics,
he gave Kissinger high marks overall for his ability to determine those areas in U.S. foreign policy where success was
achievable and to then act on those areas.

“Western Disunity: Its Challenge to America” was the theme of Dr. Graebner’s last lecture. In this talk, Dr. Graebner noted
that while the Atlantic Alliance has had strains throughout its 30-year existence, the current problems within NATO threaten its future
as never before. Dr. Graebner saw this threat stemming from an

Look for MOVIE MADNESS in the next issue of your college newspaper.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/29 October 1982
