Volume 6 LXXI Number 1

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Friday 24 September 1982

Summer Thefts in Belk

Property stolen during dorm renovation

$6,627 worth of stored goods were reported stolen from the Davidson campus this summer, and many more stolen goods have gone unreported. “I’ve never seen a summer where we’ve had so much stealing before,” said Housing Office Director Bill Bolding.

The police have arrested only one man in connection with the crimes. Captain Hughes has charged Morrisville painter Alan Bray, 26, with possession of stolen goods.

Most of the larcenies took place in Belk dorm, but thieves looted the entire campus. Andrew Wells, Norwood Smith, Dan Metzel, Carl Vass, Elizabeth Wilson, Dovy Hansen, Elizabeth Brazell, Gary Schenk, John Toler, and Robert Bruce have reported their losses to the police.

Hughes says that the police have no leads in the case because Bray “isn’t talking.” He encourages all victims to report their losses so the police will have more information to use. “We need a victim for a search warrant,” Hughes says.

The College hired contractors to renovate Belk dorm this summer, but Bolding says he was not informed of the renovation plans. When he arrived this summer, the contractors had taken every door off its hinges, and the thefts had begun. Bolding says he “picked up the stuff that was valuable” and stored it in his office, but the stealing continued. Bolding says that the thieves broke into his office three times this summer and that they have broken in once since school began. “It makes me feel like nothing is secure, that you can’t leave anything,” he said.

Bolding said his “greatest concern” was with “the painting contractors,” but he is not making any accusations. Captain Hughes says that “I can’t say who did it,” but that “the only one we’ve caught was a painter.”

The thefts have harmed the students most. Robert Bruce lost $2500 worth of stereo equipment, and Carl Vass lost $2380 worth of clothing, including fifteen LaCoste sweaters. The list of stolen goods includes: clocks, radios, stereos, cameras, speakers, rugs, pans, popcorn machines, typewriters, records, tapes, posters, shoes, bedspreads, antiques, refrigerators, coffee pots, calculators, jumper cables, power tools, and even books.

The College did not insure any of the items. According to Bolding, “All storage was ‘at your own risk.’” Sophomore victim John Toler says he knew about the risk but that he had to leave something because he “didn’t have any more room in the car.” Toler says that his homeowners’ insurance should cover the loss.

Fortunately, most students’ insurance will make up for the losses. But SGA President Tim Johnston, under the direction of Dean of Students Will Terry’s Office, is organizing a committee to examine the problem. The group includes Bo Young, John Storey, Robert Bruce, and other directly affected students. Johnston says that the group will try to attain “some kind of compensation” for the victims.

Johnston feels that the best solution, however, is “to find alternative places for students to store their belongings.” Captain Hughes agrees: “The solution is don’t let students leave their stuff here.”
David Resnik ’85

Warner Hall Takes Off

Warner Hall, the new all-women’s eating house, began operations 14 September, after a six-day construction delay. The building, formerly the Bailey freshman eating house, was moved to its present location between the Fannie & Mable and ETC houses to make room for the Commons.

On 5 February 1982, College President Samuel Spencer approved the Warner Hall proposal that was submitted to the Council on Campus and Religious Life in November 1981. The new eating house is named after former Trustee chairman Warner Hall.

The house plans a full social and service calendar, which commenced before the Georgetown football game with an open mixer. The women also sold beverage huggers during the game to raise funds.

There are 48 sophomore, nine junior, and four senior members of Warner Hall. The board fee is $390, and the social fee is $50. Warner Hall’s officers are: president, Connie Kyle; vice-president, Mary Tabb; treasurer, Anne Rollins; secretary, Elizabeth White. The social chairperson is Ellen Rowe with Jane Alexanian as assistant. The kitchen manager is Meg Surratt with Elizabeth Elkin as assistant. Mary Grey Reddick is the House Manager and Laura Taft is in charge of fundraising and service projects.
By Andy Wilson