Mr. & Mrs. Richard C.

“What is this? A yard sale?”

By BRIAN BUTLER '84

I read an absolutely TRASHY NOVEL the other day, in Chambers Gallery of all places. Right in front of Dean
Terry. It started off with the juiciest: Willy Wonka’s Watermelon, York Chocolate-Covered Peppermint Pattie, Tidal Wave bubblegum, Candy Dinosaur eggs,
Annie cookies, Popeye Shredded Bubblegum (Popeye punches a pack, thinks to himself, “Looks like spinach, tastes like bubblegum”), Easter Greetings
Delicious Coated coconut cream (white cross on a pink background), the Uncandy, Norwegian Crown Prince Finest Norway Sardines (in tomato
sauce), STP, Red Hots, Winston, Hardees Sausage Biscuits, $100,000 Bar, Payday, Rocky Road, Cherry Chan Candy (with a picture of
the detective himself), and so on. Hubba Bubba! I am talking about the trashiest.

Had enough? Me too.

This “Trashy Novel” is part of a display titled “Still Lifes: An Exhibition by Mr. and Mrs. Richard C.” Richard
Craven lives in Winston-Salem with his wife Linda, where he is a curator at the Southeastern Center for Contemporary Arts.
Mr. Craven’s art has been displayed at the Whitney Museum in New York, the Paris Biennale, in Australia, Poland, Washington,
D.C., as well as Fayetteville, North Carolina.

In a phone interview with Mr. Craven, I asked him what the relationship was among twenty folding card tables covered
with lewd advertising colors, Coke bottles, Disney characters, cans of tuna, plastic crucifixes, and art.

Mr. Craven wants to offer the idea that an artist's creations may not be beautiful, illusory representations of things, or
even strictly visual to be acceptable as art. Personally, Craven takes a special ironic delight in each commercialized object, and
for a reason that isn’t immediately clear.

“Name one man-made thing that isn’t designed,” he challenged me. I couldn’t think of an example, though I was sure
there must be one somewhere.

Each and every man-made object contains an element of order, design, and concentrated effort. Consequently, every thing possesses some degree
of artful consideration. In short, I believe in fine, medium, and coarse art. Mr. Craven's art consists of the assemblage
and arrangement of the already-designed objects in the museum or gallery, where they—one hopes—receive a more serious kind of observation
than if viewed in a day-to-day setting. “The museum audience,” says Craven, “is much more likely to be interested and
capable of adapting visual concepts and playful, inventive attitudes compared to others which are not concerned and open to visual
information.” Craven wants us to look at the millions of mass-produced doodads we usually ignore with the same eye we
use to view art.

For Richard C., the display has a mysterious, bizarre, and amusing effect. “But,” he says, “anything anyone brings to it
is beneficial.” He overheard one sarcastic student asking, “What is this? A yard sale?” while he was setting up. “I
thought that was a terrific response and entirely appropriate.”

Some tables are arranged to have a specific effect. For instance, the Superman peanut butter is flanked by a Clark
bar and Kent cigarettes. One table, titled “Homage to Jasper Johns: 0 through 9” is simply a row of common
commercial products on a red tablecloth: a Zero candy bar, Alka 2, 3 Musketeers, 4-Way cold tablets, 5th Avenue candy
bar, 666 Cold Preparation, 7-Up, V8, and 9 Lives. Jasper Johns, known for his painted renditions of the American flag,
also painted some series of numbers, the effect of which is to induce the viewer to see the shape of
a nine, for instance, devoid of its connotation or value. The number 9 is not necessarily a 9 but an
arbitrary and potentially beautiful squiggle. Craven’s 1 through 9 turns Jasper Johns’s idea on its head, in a sense: if
products are arranged carefully, we might begin to see them outside their common functions.

Other tables are somewhat more befuddling and apparently nonsensical, at least at first glance. One traps a pen inside two
clear glass jars on top of a blank writing pad. Suspended by a string from the ceiling, a forked stick
swings with “No poetry” written on its side. The “no poetry” stick is so light that even if the string
were to break, it would have little chance of shattering the glass and freeing the pen.

One table is covered with a blue- and white-checked tablecloth and rows of brown Tootsie rolls, orange candy pumpkins, and
corn candy. The effect of this exhibit doesn’t depend on the relationships between the objects’ connotations (if corn candy has
connotations other than gustatory), but only on the colors and patterns and their visual effects.

Another table, covered with a paper Christmas “cloth,” is rowed with holly and poinsettias of the sort one sees in
a large discount store around Christmas time. A place setting is composed of a plate with

THE DAVIDSONIAN/5 November 1982
