Dear Faculty, Staff and Students,

On September 22, 1982, Dr. Sandor Kiss, Foreign Service Officer for the Hungarian Service on the Voice of America, died
as a result of an automobile accident. As many of you know, Dr. Kiss was the father of Elizabeth Kiss
‘83. Davidson was fortunate enough to meet Dr. Kiss during his visit here in the Spring of 1981 when he
spoke on “Communism and Fascism: Then and Now - The Story of the Hungarian Revolution and Other Attempts at Freedom.”
From this talk and subsequent conversations, we learned why he has been called one of the “spiritual and inspirational” leaders
of the attempted Hungarian Revolution in 1956: having lived under the regimes of both Hitler and Stalin, Dr. Kiss was
imprisoned and sentenced to death for his political views and activities. He also served as a key witness at the
U.N., as editor of East Europe Magazine, and as a member of the Assembly of Captive Nations. In these and
other endeavors, Dr. Kiss lived his passion for freedom for all nations and individuals and carried a torch with which
he continually sparked the fight for Human Rights.

Because of his background and experience, Dr. Kiss brought to us a political perspective that is a rare opportunity at
Davidson. It is our desire to preserve this perspective and to pass it on to other Davidson students; that is
why we have started the Sandor Kiss Memorial Fund. Money collected through this fund will be used to purchase books
on issues related to Dr. Kiss’ life and work. If funds provide, an effort will be made to bring a
speaker to campus from Voice of America or some other group with which Dr. Kiss was associated. It is our
feeling that Dr. Kiss’ life work was and is worthwhile. This Memorial Fund is an expression of our desire to
see his fight for Human Rights continued on the Davidson campus, and we are requesting your help. Anyone wishing to
contribute to the Sandor Kiss Memorial Fund should take their contributions to the Dean of Students Office. Checks may be
made payable to Davidson College.

Thank you,

Catherine McMillan ‘83
Tracy Thompson ‘83

To the Editor:

Call me Roy. I graduated with the class of 1975 at the tender age of one. Not that I am
particularly gifted—I’m not. Actually, I’m a dog whose owner (my father) was a graduate of that very class. For various
reasons, that owner now seeks anonymity.

Although I also followed my father through law school, marriage, and the birth of two children, I have never been
able to recapture the bliss I experienced during my tenure at Davidson. I ran with a pack of alumni who
carried the tradename “Gozinya” much the same way as a drunken sailor wears an obscene tattoo. I am not handsome.
I am, in fact, often mistaken for an animated gargoyle. But, as the saying goes, you will never see as
much character squeezed into 25 pounds again. I have enclosed a photo but would advise you to view it only
on an empty stomach.

I like all forms of athletics, have been known to drink beer, and I even attended several of Malcolm Partin’s
lectures (you know, they say he talks to cows). But now my problem. I do not “fit” with my present
family—a part of a suburban unit I am not. The talk of mutiny fills the air, my allowance was recently
trimmed, and my beer quota has been rationed. I expect my pink slip any day now, with all of its
murderous entailments.

I am writing in a very sincere effort to locate a foster father (or mother for that matter) who is
presently attending Davidson. Even my father reluctantly agrees that this is the only alternative available. I understand that I would
be delivered free of charge with bowl, food, and the latest in canine vaccinations. I also carry a rebate worth
one case of beer (my choice). Please print my plea in aFuture edition and send me a bill (I’m fiscally
responsible) and a copy of the edition (I’m also egocentric). All inquiries should be sent to the address listed below.
Hell, I’ll even pay for the phone call.

Sincerely,
Roy McCoy
722 Frederick Street
Panama City, Florida 32401
Home: (904) 785-9049
Office: (904) 769-3434

The Mail

To the Editor:

With half the term almost gone, most of us have had our first tests and papers put behind us. In
getting into the routine of studying, many of you have had the chance to “wander” up to the 900 Room
on a weeknight or enjoy the entertainment there on the weekends. This letter is in response to several questions that
have arisen concerning the 900 Room that would help clarify the Room’s situation.

The 900 Room is a dual concern between the College Union and the Dining Service. In many ways, the 900
Room is no different from any other room in the Union. It is primarily a programming room for the Union.
On the weeknights, the Room’s program usually is the Room itself in the latter part of the evening: people relaxing,
listening to music, drinking a beer or a coke perhaps, and taking a sometimes long-needed break. On the weekend, the
program of the Room is usually some sort of planned entertainment. The Intimate Performances Committee of the Union Board usually
is responsible for the booking of this entertainment. This group works hard to bring Davidson College diverse yet very good
and entertaining acts and events. On the weekends, the primary focus of the Room is the program and not the
alcohol. Please keep this in mind.

The Dining Service’s primary concern is in providing the liquid and food services for the Room. There is some interest
in expanding this area although our means are limited. Starting this week, there will be a survey in the 900
Room that we will use to get a feeling for what you would like to see. We will discuss seriously
any ideas you will be good enough to give us, and we need your thoughts.

For you to be able to enjoy the Room and for us to be able to help you any way
we can, here are several rules that we feel necessary to point out:

1. Don’t forget your I.D.! If you have a guest, he or she must also have an I.D. of some
sort (driver’s license, college I.D., etc). Your guest must be signed in clearly and made aware of the rules of
the Room. Please remember that you are responsible for your guest.
2. Do not bring in or take out any alcoholic beverages of any kind.
3. Do not come behind the bar.
4. Do not use the stairwell between the Café and the 900 Room.
5. Checks can be written only for the exact amount of purchase.
6. Bartenders have the right to refuse service if it should become necessary.

Please remember that the 900 Room is a privilege and not a right. Treat it as such.

Geoff Andrews
Debbie Peters
Tim Brotherton
Laura Bush
Lach Zemp
Suzan Dickey
John Nielpold
John (Doodle) Wally
Ricky Rudisill
Frankie White

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from our readers. We try to print letters that are of general interest. We adhere to
these four guidelines:

1. We require that letters be in our hands by Tuesday 7 p.m.
2. We require that letters be neatly written.
3. We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editor, Stewart Cauley.
4. We reserve the right not to print letters that (a) function as advertisements; (b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or
inside jokes; (c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in many other letters printed on the same topic.
We also reserve the right to condense very long letters.

The Davidsonian does not in any way...

THE DAVIDSONIAN / October 1982
