= LXXII, Number 15

Debate

A great deal of debate is going on between faculty members concerning the proposed Faculty Advisory Committee on Reappointment and Tenure.

Some faculty members feel that faculty participation in the evaluation process is essential. Others argue that the proposed committee will not make significant improvements in the evaluation system and that the price of this committee in terms of faculty relations is too high.

Discussion is crucial because the measure passed at the first reading by only one vote over the necessary two-thirds majority needed for final adoption. According to Philosophy Professor Lance Stell, about 25 faculty members were not at the meeting, so the vote could go either way.

The proposal, which the Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) recommended, would review all reappointment and tenure decisions, meet with Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T.C. Price Zimmermann, and make a recommendation to be included with Dean Zimmermann’s report to College President Sam Spencer.

The five-member Committee would be elected by the faculty and would represent three divisions of the faculty and two at-large posts. Members of the committee would not vote on faculty members in their department.

The system of faculty evaluation for tenure now provides for a recommendation by the head of the department of the faculty member and letters of recommendation requested by Dean Zimmermann from individual faculty members in the department and with whom the candidate has worked in committee or on special projects. Dean Zimmermann then makes a recommendation to President Spencer, which he forwards to the Trustees with his own comments.

If the proposal passes, the process would include, in addition to these steps, a separate recommendation to Dean Zimmermann from the Advisory Council.

The PAC brought a similar measure before the faculty three years ago, but it was defeated by eight votes on the second reading.

Supporters of the proposal emphasize that it is an important responsibility for the faculty to be involved in the decision-making process. Philosophy Professor Lance Stell, who is a member of the PAC, said that the Committee felt that participation in the evaluation process should be a faculty responsibility and that it is an appropriate thing to ask of them. English Professor Anthony Abbott said, “If we refuse to participate, we miss the opportunity to play an important part in some very important decisions.”

Criticism of the proposal revolves around two basic questions: will the Committee be effective in improving the faculty evaluation process, and how will the Committee’s work affect collegiality among the faculty members themselves?

English Professor Gil Holland, who opposed the measure when it was proposed three years ago, is again opposed to such a committee. He said he does not feel that the Committee would help the evaluation procedure for several reasons.

First, he said, since President Spencer does not have to state any reasons for a decision for “understandable legal reasons,” there is not going to be

Continued on page 7

Friday, 12 February 1982

This year’s Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow Dick Clark and sophomore Dan Turk discuss U.S.-African relations. See story inside.

Self-Selection Results

On Wednesday, 284 freshmen, or 78% of the freshman class, participated in Patterson Court eating house self-selection. Thirty-two freshmen are on waiting lists at PAX, PiKA, and KA, while 252 freshmen joined houses.

The new all-women’s house received 52 new members. Sophomore Anne Rollins, who is helping to organize the new house, said, “We are really pleased.” Rollins said the house organizers expect no problem in getting enough members to open their house (See “Women Win, BSC Deferred”).

Only nine women signed up for Rusk House, a precipitous drop from last year. House President Shannon Walters said, “We expected this to happen. Starting a new house is an exciting opportunity and it [the number of women who signed up for the new house] is not a reflection of dissatisfaction with Rusk.” She said she still fully supports the new house and says Rusk will have no problem filling their available spots from their waiting list. “This is really what we want,” she said. “We’ll get girls who are really committed to Rusk, and not here just because we’re the only

Continued on page 17