Film Reviews with Debbie Eisenbise

Eye of the Needle; Watership Down

Ken Follett’s thrilling spy novel comes to the screen in The Eye of the Needle, Friday’s Pop Film. It blends
historical fiction, suspense, and romance into one tight storyline. Set in London during World War II, the movie canvases the
life of Mr. Faber (alias “The Needle”), a Nazi undercover agent, from the onset of his mission in 1940 till
its untimely end in 1944.

The director introduces the characters through a series of disjointed scenes that occur in 1940 just after the beginning of
the war. The film then jumps ahead four years to an obscure island just off England’s coast where most of
the story’s action takes place. It is here that all the threads left loose at the film’s start are tied
together as the various characters are introduced to one another.

To love a stranger is easy...
To kill a lover is not.

The complex series of events that occur on this small island revolve around the film’s two main characters, Faber (played
by Donald Sutherland) and Lucy (Kate Nelligan). Sutherland gives an excellent performance in his portrayal of the cold and calculating
Faber. The character is revealed bit by bit, heightening the movie's suspense as curiosity about the man’s personality is added
to intrigue about his situation: Will he be caught? Will he meet his death? Will he reveal his true self,
that which lies behind his inhuman mechanistic front? These questions are answered as the climactic finale approaches with the onset
of his relationship with a woman named Lucy. Nelligan, who plays the heroine, certainly acts just as brilliantly as Sutherland
does, but the development of her character is somewhat lacking, and the motivation behind her actions seems irrational and confusing
at times. In contrast to the novel, the film portrays the character as more of a hysterical female than a
woman torn apart because of her passionate love for a man. The minor characters are even less well developed, having
import merely in their aid in offsetting the main characters’ personalities and in explaining their actions.

The violent suspense of the film, however, keeps one’s mind focused more upon the storyline than the individual characters. From
intrigue to chase scenes to romance, the tension remains at the apex established in the film’s opening scenes. This is
a movie for active emotional and intellectual involvement—an action-packed first-rate thriller not to be missed!

Fine Films, Wednesday, April 14 presents an exciting adventure of a radically different nature in Watership Down, produced, written, and
directed by Martin Rosen. The film, based on the novel by Richard Adams, chronicles a world of rabbits and their
struggle (curiously similar to man’s) to survive in an unjust, imperfect, and totally rabbit-populated world.

Through this innocent detachment from our “real” world, Rosen is able to take a look at politics, psychology, and religion,
but from a rabbit’s point of view, of course.

A timid mystic rabbit named Fiver envisions the imminent destruction of the rabbit world by men. Thus these personified bunnies,
imbued with human-like rivalries, friendships, joys, and anguishes, set off on an exodus to find a new home. They soon
confront another rabbit clan overlorded by a fascist named General Woundswart. The battle that ensues in its fang and claw
fashion immediately removes any notion anyone might have that this is just another cartoon.

The artistic quality of the animation and the suspenseful drama of the plot puts Watership Down on par with Allegro
Non Tropo shown earlier this year. Besides forcing the audience to take a second look at itself, this movie’s entertainment
value rates high!

Debbie Eisenbise ’82

SMITH’S
Cornelius, ph. 892-8856.

BARBER FOR MEN AND WOMEN

YOU NAME IT — WE'LL STYLE IT

NORTON'S BARBER SHOP

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9 April 1982
