Dense-Pack: Wrong Missile at the Wrong Time

By WILL BERSON ’83

In the 1980 Carter-Reagan debates, President Carter said his daughter Amy considered nuclear arms control to be the most important issue in the campaign. Many laughed. Two years later, the comment can still draw a snicker, but only just. On November 2, 1982, 30 percent of the American voters considered variously worded referenda calling for a nuclear weapons production freeze. In eight out of nine states (Arizona dissenting), the District of Columbia, and the municipal elections in Chicago and Philadelphia, the voters passed the referenda with an average 2-1 majority. Yet, on 22 November President Reagan announced his decision to push for the “dense-pack” deployment of the MX missile, which will cost an estimated $30 billion. Since that’s billion with a B, and since it is a part of the Reagan administration’s plan to spend over $1.6 trillion on defense in the next five years—while trying to balance the budget at the same time—the decision to deploy such an unpopular system ought to be examined.

But what is MX and what is “dense-pack”? MX is a new generation of American missiles with greater accuracy and payload. Each missile can carry up to ten independently targetable warheads 6,000 miles over the Soviet Union and drop each device within several hundred yards of its target. Since nuclear weapons tend to make a loud bang, this is close enough to make a big hole, almost ensuring a hit. The problem is our experts believe the Soviets have similar capabilities, which could destroy our present missiles. This means that when the President learns that an attack has been launched, he must counterstrike immediately, before their missiles destroy our missiles. “Dense-pack” is the Reagan administration’s method of deploying the 100 MX missiles, to make our missiles less vulnerable in the event of an attack, and to allow a flexible, more considered retaliation.

The “dense-pack” plan calls for placing the 100 missiles within a narrow strip of land one mile wide, and 14 miles long, in silos designed to withstand all but a direct nuclear hit. If one silo were destroyed, its neighbors would still survive, and the dust, debris, and radiation would destroy the following Soviet missiles, an effect known as “fratricide,” leaving the rest of our arsenal intact. Of course, this depends on speculation that our missiles will be able to blast through the rubble covering their silo roofs. The most optimistic forecasts call for several hours additional survival time for our arsenal.

In his speech to the nation on November 22, President Reagan declared MX to be the “right missile at the right time,” noting that three former presidents and secretaries of defense favored MX deployed various ways. Yet the President did not note some important factors. First, the MX will not be in service until 1989, and in the meantime another comparable missile, the Trident-2, will be ready for use on our nuclear submarine force, an existing, practically invulnerable deployment method.

Second, President Reagan seems to overlook the fact that this missile is being built supposedly within the confines of the unratified but mutually recognized SALT II treaty, which permits the U.S. to build a new mobile missile system. Under President Carter’s favorite scheme, MX would have run a gigantic racetrack between the silos, imitating a shell-game. Under “dense-pack,” however, this system could not be considered “mobile.”

Third, there is a chance that some anti-ballistic missile systems (ABMS) may be installed to detonate incoming missiles before reaching the dense-pack field. ABMS have been successfully limited by the ratified SALT I treaty. This would clearly involve undermining one notable achievement in arms limitation. If there is any validity to the idea of deploying MX as a “bargaining chip” in arms control negotiations with the Soviets, it is curious to see the U.S. abandoning previous achievements in the process. How likely is it that the Soviets will enter further agreements when we abrogate treaties whenever it serves our purpose?

So much for the technical arguments. What the MX, and arms control issues in general, seem to lack is an overall sense of perspective. To deploy MX in this form is to buy (for $30 billion today) several hours’ protection for an arsenal which we, as voters, seem to say we don’t want in the first place. In other words, we are purchasing several additional hours before what will almost certainly be the end of the world. In any case, while MX may survive several hours of nuclear bombardment, the same cannot be said for Davidson, New York, Atlanta, San Francisco, etc., which will all be simultaneously attacked. The missiles will outlive the people they are supposed to protect—and will then presumably be used to decimate the attacker. How sweet is this revenge?

There is a substantial difference between not building MX and not increasing defense spending, nuclear or otherwise. MX is expensive and its deployment is based on unconfirmed theories. There will be a viable alternative available by the time dense-pack is constructed. The MX is coming at a time when reducing budget deficits is an important item on the political agenda. Internationally, it cannot be read enthusiastically in Moscow, now reorganizing after Brezhnev's death, or in Western Europe, where strong anti-nuclear “green” movements are making political waves. The Western European states are bound to see it as proof that Americans are giving up on arms control negotiations, and, indeed, may be tearing up existing agreements. Certainly, in the case of the MX, the argument of building weapons to control weapons loses credibility. And realistically, what does the act of building such a system say about our administration's commitment to the cause of arms reduction?

Will Berson is a senior political science major from Summit, New Jersey.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/ 10 December 1982