Once upon a time, there was a bass player named Tina Weymouth and a drummer named Chris Frantz. They played in a band called Talking Heads. Then this rhythmic couple decided to make an album with some of their friends, and with Tina’s sisters (Loric and Lani). They decided on the decidedly uncool name of the Tom Tom Club, and the album shot up the soul charts shortly thereafter. Hard to believe? Beyond the realm of credibility? Nah. Just wait until you hear the record.

Based on the soul success of two of their songs, “Wordy Rappinghood” and “Genius of Love,” the debut album by the loose conglomeration of artists called the Tom Tom Club has received a lot of attention by people who never gave the Talking Heads a second listen. The answer to their success may lie in the unpretentious readings of their music; escaping the pitfalls of rock singers trying to sing soul (best exemplified in Rod Stewart’s “Do You Think I’m Sexy”), the Tom Tom Club sounds natural and almost childlike in their singing, phrasing some of their silliest lyrics in a truly ingenuous manner.

Probably the most interesting, and certainly the most commercially successful song on the LP is the relaxed but bouncy “Genius of Love.” In response to the question “Whatcha gonna do when you get out of jail?” comes the hip but awkward voice proclaiming “I’m gonna have some fun.” “What do you consider fun?” “Fun, natural fun.” The lead singer combines the innocent knowledge of Debra Harry with the breathy coolness of the leader of the Chirelles. The song then progresses to a catalogue of soul stars (Bootsy Collins, Kurtis Blow, Bohannon, Bob Marley, etc.). The song has one line which epitomizes the feeling throughout the album — “Who needs to think when your feet just go?”

The lyrical singing and very smooth playing is complemented by a spacious production sound. This aspect of the recording emphasizes the lightness of the album and is evocative of summer, even though the LP was released last winter. The songs are breezy without being flippant, and smooth without being slick. Thus, the debut album by the Tom Tom Club (and probably their final album as well, since it was only done as a hiatus from the Talking Heads) shows that music can be popular while avoiding the vapid anemia of most pop tunes. If you’re shopping around for a perfect summer afternoon refresher, put down that Jimmy Buffet album and give the Tom Tom Club a try.

Record reviews with Jon Glance

HAPPY PEOPLE? by Skip

This week: When the going gets tough...

ORDINARY TABLE SALT IS THREE TIMES MORE TOXIC

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982