Film reviews with Debbie Eisenbise.

Raging Bull

The French Lieutenant’s Woman

The Rocky Horror Picture Show

Pop Films has not left us without a recourse to studying during this exam period, but is providing us with
three good cinematographic reasons to put the books aside for a few hours.

On Friday (8:30 and 10:00 PM), Robert DeNiro stars in the hard-hitting drama, Raging Bull. Director Martin Scorsese has created
a film based on the life of Jake LaMotta, a former middleweight boxing champ, that travels along the emotion-packed “highlights”
of his life that plague him long after the thrill of the fight is over. His once muscular body turned
to fat and his scarred face tell a story that harkens back to his former “days of glory.” One might
wonder if it isn’t his “days of glory” as one has an in-ring view of the blood and pain of
the boxing match.

The film’s continuity is based on a steady stream of violently tense and explosive situations. Outside of the boxing ring,
there is the arena of his relationship with Vicki (Cathy Moriarty) and with his brother/best friend Joey (Joe Pesci). The
psyche of LaMotta is bared in his interactions with Vicki and Joey. The overbearing jealousy that permeates many of these
encounters is interesting but never justified or explained. Many of the character’s outbursts never really make any sense on an
intellectual level but are gut-level feelings/reactions that one sees coming from deep within LaMotta’s person.

DeNiro’s Jake LaMotta is not an outstanding hero-figure, but is portrayed by the actor as a man possessed by his
inner passions, his instincts of violent emotion. DeNiro and the entire cast portray characters who are lucid to their inner
selves in an honest, and even somewhat heroic way.

A drama of a different genre comes our way on Thursday the 13th at 8:30 and 10:00 in The French
Lieutenant’s Woman. This is an excellent study of Victorian romance; the story of Sarah Woodruff and Charles Smithson as portrayed
by two present-day actors (Anna — Meryl Streep and Mike — Jeremy Irons). It is a movie within a movie
that captures the spirit of John Fowles’ work that is a nineteenth-century romance written from a later perspective. Harold Pinter’s
screenplay cleverly juxtaposes Charles’ and Sarah’s restrained passion with the casualness of Mike’s and Anna’s affair offstage.

Meryl Streep and Jeremy Irons are both to be congratulated for their wonderful portrayal of all four of the characters,
and director Karel Reisz is to be equally praised for his ability to intertwine all of the action and yet
keep one engrossed in both romances.

The movie finally leaves one with questions about romantic love — if it is not just something of a bygone
era, or if this fast-paced world of casual affairs can have some passion of its own.

Pop Films believes in the adage — “leave them laughing” — as on Saturday, May 15, Rocky Horror Picture Show
comes to Davidson. For those of you who have never had the “Rocky Horror” experience, it is not to be
missed. Any movie that is advertised as “...the oddest, most off-the-wall cult film ever made by anybody anywhere...a kinky rock
n’ roll science fiction horror satire that is everybody’s favorite...” can’t be all bad.

The story begins when one dark and dreary night two uptight youths, Brad and Janet, stumble unknowingly into the castle
of Frank N. Furter (Tim Curry), “a sweet transvestite from transsexual Transylvania.” Curry and the perverse cast lead Brad and
Janet and the audience away from reality into a world where anything goes, and it does. Seduction is the name
of the game and it is played by all. Riff Raff, Eddie, Rocky, and the rest follow Frank N. Furter’s
lead in step and tune through an absurd ballet of debauchery. No doubt you too shall “give yourself over to
total pleasure” since participation is a must for enjoyment. Come to sing, laugh, and, of course, to do “the time
warp again.”

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 7 May 1982

13
