8 Wednesday, December 14, 1983/The Davidsonian

IMAC Basketball Newcomers Upset Old Guard Teams

By HUNTER GOURLEY

IMAC basketball ain't what it used to be. Forget the fact that the Czar no longer reigns supreme. Pay no attention to the 50-odd team representatives who tote those little blue IMAC booklets around like it’s exam time already. Disregard the “training rules” on page five of each booklet (and fail to notice that its pages are not even numbered). But remember, pay attention, regard, and note that this year’s freshman class has come to play IMAC ball in 1983-84. The newcomers are upsetting the old guard teams with little exception in the women’s and the men’s leagues.

Ladies first.

Women’s Games

First and Foremost, a combination of Basement and Fourth Richardson forces, whipped up on the supposed precision powerhouse of the league, the Black Student Coalition’s Sisters, Inc., by a score of 37-16. Manager and F & F high scorer Wendy Warner had 15 points. Dana Lemon was the high scorer for the game and the only scorer for the Sisters.

In other women’s league games, Warner Hall’s apparently superior diet led to its squeaky victory over arch-rival Rusk in a 25-22 thriller, and the High Two’s fell (one of the few freshman teams to do so) to a more experienced Mother’s Finest in a 14-8 loss.

B-League Play

In the Men’s B League (B for Big — 34 teams and six divisions) freshmen teams continued to surprise their opponents. The Slammers of Second East Belk manhandled the Grobetrotters 50-32. The ’Trotters sported such experienced athletes as Mark Nottingham, Doug Ammar, and Dave Barnes but proved they were no match for the scoring talents of young Charles Stevens and Chris Jones who together accounted for almost half their team’s points.

Second Center Belk’s Second Coming pulled a nine-point victory over the independent team NAATP, 45-36. Steve MacMillan’s freshman Yo-Yo’s wound up beating yet another unfortunate independent team, Yufi and the Redons, by a score of 37-27. In a close inter-Belk confrontation that fortunately necessitated at least one rookie team’s defeat, First Center East’s mighty stiffs stood up to the Second West Accidents and beat them 43-34.

Pi Kappa Alpha’s Pat Millen, in another noteworthy B-league game, got mean inside and scored 20 of his team’s (Mind If I Floss) 41 points in an eight-point game against Leave It To Beaver.

A-League Action

Freshman teams upset preseason favorites in Men’s A-league play this past week also. First West’s Moral Hex made use of consistent scoring from all five starters to outgun the Sigma Alpha Epsilon number one team, Hard To Swallow, 53-49. Scott Brandon led all scorers with 22 points while the Hex’s J.D. Fleenor and Todd Wiebusch hit for 14 points apiece.

In a similar hard-fought game, the freshman Penetrators stuck it to the BSC’s Cool Breeze in a last-minute frenzy that left the Breeze a little slack and several points out. After a slow first half, the Supreme Court found their break and passed a decided judgment on the soccer team’s Charlie’s Chaps, 48-30. Scott Huie, Stephan Dockery, and Chip Craig combined for 31 of the Court’s points while Tony Cabrales netted 12 points for his team. The other KA team, Right Stuff, recorded another victory over SAE team, Pony Express, 46-42. All in all, it was a good week for KA and a disappointing one for SAE.

Finally, another battle between the frats,the Sigma Phi Epsilon’s Champagne Jam outplayed the Delts’ Pi Delta Theta, 43-37, in a very physical contest. The Jam’s Tenny Deane led all scorers with a 13-point effort.

By STEVE SOUD

As a kid, I heard a lot about how sports help you grow as a human being—teaching you how to accept winning and losing gracefully, and so on. Somehow, I was always sure that concept was more theory than practice: I’m sure we’ve all had run-ins with our share of sore losers, be it ourselves or others. But this season, I have discovered this curious “losing gracefully” theory put into practice—by the women’s basketball team.

Doubtless, some of the scores (some with point spreads in the nineties) have leaked out and been whispered ‘round campus. Some of these games make Little Big Horn look like an afternoon stroll through the park. Certainly, there are intramural teams endowed with better talent than the varsity. But none have more heart. Never has a team with which I have been associated (in any respect) been more worthy of admiration than this one. They forget last game’s score while learning its lessons, and go out and bust it for 40 minutes almost expecting to lose. That takes guts. (Unfortunately, the team often performs this valorous feat before a handful of derisive football players who would have endured no similar taunts during their own losing season.)

These women are noble and valorous, but their hustle and hard work have paid off. A glimpse at their scores confirms improvement: Game number one against Barber-Scotia, 23-115; 2) Lenoir-Rhyne, 22-97; 3) High Point, 20-96; 4) UNC-Wilmington, 44-138; 5) Barber-Scotia, 52-89. The difference between game one and game five—against the same team—is remarkable! Davidson more than doubled its own offensive production and cut 26 points off Barber-Scotia’s previous score. Davidson’s shooting percentage across the same span soared from 12 percent to 37 percent. It’s all a team effort, because leading scorer Amy Hartman is averaging only 5.4 ppg.

But a fundamental question one must ask is, “How is it that so many good players are flocking to IMAC?” Varsity sports demand a huge commitment, and this commitment is overpowering on the team’s 27-game schedule. One cannot expect non-scholarship players to endure that kind of schedule. With that in mind, Coach Patty Daley is trimming next year’s schedule to a more reasonable size: 16 to 20 games. With a little luck, that revised schedule could help lure some of Davidson’s best players out of IMAC. But in the meantime, this year’s team will continue to sweat it out on the basketball court. They'll work hard, improve, and hopefully win a game or two.

Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St.-Davidson, N.C 28036
892-7521

Order in advance—
Wine & Beer by the case: Cost plus 10%
Keg beer: Cost plus 10%

READY FOR A CHANGE OF PACE?

The Air Force has openings for allied health professionals. You can enjoy regular working hours, 30 days of vacation with pay each year, worldwide travel opportunities. A unique and enjoyable lifestyle for you and your family while you serve your country. Ask a health professions recruiter about our outstanding pay and benefits package. Contact:

TSGT BOB PAYNE
4109 Wake Forest Rd.
Raleigh, NC 27609
919-755-4134
Call Collect

Announcing
RACHEL ELLIOT
Now at THE HAIR PLACE
892-3010
Please call for appointment
Rt. 4, Box 627
Mooresville