The Honest Act of a Simple Man

When will we test Davidson’s ethics? He was a grizzly ol’ codger whose endearing grin made up for his distinct lack of pearly whites. When a friend and I stopped at his fruit stand by the side of the road sometime last fall, it struck me that we had entered another world, his world, and that he had probably been behind that fruit stand selling apples for as far back as the Blue Ridge could remember. Although I am from the mountains myself, he had little means of knowing that, and I could sense the class difference: our clothes, our speech, a new Datsun vs. him, the apples, the mountains. Nonetheless, he was quite friendly and offered us free samples as well as a good deal of advice on how to differentiate a “cookin’” apple from one of the “eatin’” variety.

As I was leaving with my treasure (a bag of aromatic Golden Delicious), he stopped me and handed me a ten-dollar bill that I had accidentally overpaid him. When I expressed grateful surprise, he said something I hope I'll never forget: “Son, if I was to knowingly keep this ten dollars o’ yours, I might just as well be stealin’ a thousand.”

What that old man had was something I sometimes think is hard to find anymore. What he had was something called personal integrity. He had a set of values that he believed in strongly enough to prevent him from rationalizing minor infractions, little “white lies” if you will. “Stealin’ is stealin’,” he might say, and there’s not a whole lot of difference between keeping ten dollars of someone else’s money and stealing a fortune.

I don’t want to sound like I’m romanticizing mountain folks, because like everywhere else, the mountains have their share of lousy people. The point is that there are a few admirable people still around. I will not, however, immediately number the students of Davidson as being among that group of really admirable people, partly because I think we extol our own virtues often enough.

Moreover, at Davidson it’s easy to be honest; it requires little effort or personal sacrifice. Honesty and virtue are openly lauded values here, and a Davidson student would have to be more than a trifle foolish not to exercise those qualities. Indeed, honesty and personal expedience are pretty close matches at Davidson, but as some might not fully appreciate yet, they are not close matches everywhere.

For many of us, the true test of our personal integrity (or lack thereof) will come after Davidson. For some, it will be a first encounter with the proverbial “real world,” and the claim of some — that Davidson is merely an example of situational ethics — will either be confirmed or proven false, depending on us. Of course, some of us may have already gotten a taste of the real world: high schools where the extolled virtues are “bull-shitting” and an ability to get “maximum return for minimum investment,” or maybe minimum-wage jobs where the “I am not my brother’s keeper” law (don’t squeal on co-workers and they won’t squeal on you) is just as important as the “maximum return” law is.

Those with real world experience can appreciate the inherent difficulties in carrying the Davidson ethic back into mainstream society: it might not be personally expedient; people will not always respect you for it; friends, fellow employees will unthinkingly violate your concept of the Honor Code, for they will have another. And these people will not necessarily be bad people. I do not think I was a bad person before I came to Davidson, and yet my concept of virtue was tempered by a strong dose of pragmatism, and I demonstrated a real finesse for “playing the game.”

And that is why the honest act of a simple man behind a fruit stand meant so much to me one morning last fall. He could have justified keeping my money in several ways: it was my mistake, not his; it was only ten dollars — I’d probably never notice; besides, I probably didn’t need it as badly as he did anyway. And yet he did not justify keeping it.

As a Davidson graduate, that is the way I would like to be. I daresay that it is the goal of most Davidson students, ranking right up there with academics. Or at least I hope it is. It would be bad enough if it weren’t even without taking into consideration how much we boast about our Honor Code. But I do truly believe that our boasting is founded.and in refutation of my earlier statement, I do consider Davidson students to be admirable people. After all, suffering alone does not, should not, define a virtuous act, and honesty at Davidson is not empty just because it’s easy to be honest here. But we must nonetheless remember that the true test has not yet come. Truly, I would like to think of Davidson as more than just a privileged setting for an elite group of people; I’d like to think that we can and will carry Davidson ethics with us. And I'd also like to think that those ethics will be worth something, that through our example and our concern we can make a real contribution. Ultimately, I imagine our goal to be to create a new ‘real world’ where honesty and personal expedience are truly synonymous — like I think they are at Davidson. It is for us to create a world where personal sacrifice is not a price paid for personal integrity, because it shouldn’t have to be hard to be good. Yes, it is a bit idealistic, but so is Davidson. And anyway, it’s not like we’ll be out there without any help, for there are others who share these common goals. I can think of one already; he’s an old codger selling apples by the road somewhere up in the mountains. 

Barry Elledge ‘85 is a mathematics major from Boone, North Carolina.

that military victory for either side is highly unlikely, even impossible. In three years of fighting, neither side has gained any real advantage. Yet military victory appears to be the U.S. objective. Meanwhile, the influx of American arms and military expertise helps escalate the war and polarizes the country even further. Not surprisingly, polarization brings extreme elements to the fore on both the right and the left. Within the FDR (Democratic Revolutionary Front), the political wing of the opposition, moderate democratic and Christian groups have been losing influence as the war wears on and anti-American sentiment rises. Rumors of CIA-backed attempts to topple the Sandinista regime in Nicaragua only add fuel to the anti-American fire, and increase the likelihood of greater military cooperation between Cuba, Nicaragua, and the Salvadoran opposition. (According to the Jan. 23 New York Times, U.S. and Honduran forces were scheduled to hold joint military maneuvers near the Nicaraguan borders last week.) All of Central America is becoming ominously polarized. “If you don’t have any army, you’re ignored,” a Honduran politician told the New York Times, “And only the left and the right have armies.” President Reagan’s determination to treat Latin America as an East-West showdown may help to create a global problem, out of a regional one.

Several members of Congress have proposed scrapping certification and making U.S. aid contingent on negotiations to end the civil war. Last October, FDR President Guillermo Ungo again announced the opposition’s willingness to negotiate. “The political will of the U.S. is a vital factor in leading to any dialogue,” Ungo noted. Right-wing Salvadoran President Roberto D’Aubuisson called the proposal “the most indescribable political absurdity.” Apparently, the Reagan Administration agreed. Former Ambassador White contends that U.S. Latin American policy is crippled by two factors: “fear of revolution” and “craving for simplicity.” Revolution is almost inevitable in a country like Salvador with a long history of oppression and injustice, White says. Americans, whose ancestors became guerillas to protest taxes, not torture, ought to have some understanding for why Salvadorans would take arms against their government. Salvadoran citizens, weary of politics and terrorized by violence, flocked to the polls last March to vote for whoever promised an end to war. To interpret their vote as wholehearted support for the status quo, and argue that a guerilla defeat would solve El Salvador’s problems, is dangerous oversimplification. Forces for change in El Salvador are not three years old. The more we alienate even the most moderate of these forces, the more probable that El Salvador will become another Cuba—or Vietnam.

It is up to American citizens to demonstrate to Congress that we want a mature, realistic Salvadoran policy. Otherwise we will continue to make a sham of human rights and busily proceed on our violent “progress” to nowhere. The victims will be the Salvadoran people.

Elizabeth Kiss ’83
Assisted by James Barrat ’83, Jeff Herrin ’83, Pete Jones ’83, John Krotchko ’83, James Rozzelle '84, Debby Williams ’84

NOTE: Letters to Congress protesting U.S. human rights certification policy in El Salvador will be available for signature at Coffee and Cokes next week.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 February 1983