12. Friday, March 25, 1983 The Davidsonian

Records

The recent popularity of Musical Youth has prompted some American interest in the Jamaican reggae style known as “toasting,” in which DJs chant and sing over a spare rhythm section or even a dub instrumental mix of a popular record. Toasting has been popular in Jamaica for some ten years and generally takes the place of live music in the smaller Jamaican clubs, since the bands rarely play club dates. So, when people want to hear reggae, they'll usually go hear some famous toaster such as Big Youth, Eek-a-Mouse, Welton Irie, or Brigadier Jerry. Of all the toasters in Jamaica today, however, the most popular is an odd-looking black albino named Yellowman. This very talented, very devout man has become an unlikely sex symbol as well as a popular DJ. This LP, Mister Yellowman, is one of his many releases, but is representative and well worth a listen.

The album opens with the tightest song of the group, a Rasta shuffle entitled “Natty Sat upon the Rock.” Opening with an unintelligible Jamaican speech which contains dedications and greetings, the sound slides into a sinuous excursion with Yellowman’s voice riding on top of a carnival organ and a rock-steady bass and drum duo. The backing studio bands are the Hi-Times Band and the Roots-Radics, and they mostly...

Scoop
By JOHNNY EDWARDS

Pete Townshend’s new double album Scoop is not for everyone. The hard-core Townshend addict will consider this album required listening, while the more passive admirer may not find it quite so palatable. The reason for the difference in opinion is this: the album contains nothing but demos recorded at home with Townshend playing all the instruments. Many of the cuts do not sound polished or even finished, because Townshend used the cuts to present his songs to the Who or to his producers for their scrutiny.

As a result of the experimental nature of these demos, an incredible variety of sounds and styles comprise the album — from rock to country to jazz to electronics. Much of this will surprise those only familiar with the Who and Empty Glass. The variety is not only musical. The album contains many states of song creation, from conception to full production. As Townshend hints in the liner notes, since these recordings were never meant for public consumption, the album takes a very personal look at the process of creating.

By Townshend's own admission, Scoop was designed for the Who fanatic’s archives. Of course, Townshend has built his career around trying to analyze his position and how he got there. Townshend believes that a valve exists in almost any material of his, anyway, if viewed in the proper perspective. The obvious criticism, that the album is self-indulgent, is a particularly uninformed view, since the rock genre in general and Townshend’s career in particular have been built on self-indulgence.

An album’s worth lies in its songs. Some of the material on Scoop has been released previously and labeled as classic or at least minor classic. The demo versions of these songs are all interesting for various reasons. “Behind Blue Eyes” is positively chilling. The previously unreleased material is...Very good, some of it excellent (“Mary”), some of it not so good (“Body Language”). The moody songs constitute the real high points on this album. There is probably more beautiful music on this album than any other Who or Townshend album (except perhaps Quad). “Unused Piano,” “Behind Blue Eyes,” and “You Came Back” are all tremendously haunting, alone worth the purchase price. Scoop will not gain Townshend a new audience, but it will fascinate his old audience as well as those who love out-of-the-ordinary recordings. These really shine in their simple but imaginative arrangements. 

Most toasters rap or chant rhymes on “current events, love relationships, ganja, or the ‘eradication squads’ with their M-16s” (see Dr. Ginger Becri’s liner notes for Heartbeat record’s A Dee-jay Explosion), and Yellowman generally continues in these areas. The point, though, is not what he does but how he does it, and he does it very well. I suppose relaxed intensity is the best description I can think of for the artful effortlessness of his rapping, which is quite pleasant to listen to. One of the not-so-pleasant songs on the LP is “Jamaica a Little Miami,” which sizzles with subdued rage and bitter irony. A representative line states that “Down in Jamaica, the island of the sun/We plant sugar cane and we make white rum/When tourist come then we have little fun/When tourist come somebody shoot them down,” which points up the two faces of Jamaica — the face the tourist board presents and the one that shows the problems of the island. The song goes on to complain about girls who leave Jamaica for Miami, and write back lonely, poor, and pregnant. Yellowman achieves a socially active tone without sounding strident, which is something other groups might emulate. For example, the basically negative “Jamaica a Little Miami” is tempered by the humorous “Yellowman Getting Married” which follows it. This happy reggae remake of “Get Me to the Church on Time” (from My Fair Lady) floats and bounces along in a wash of good will until the following song, “Duppy or Gunman,” drops the listener back into darkness again. 

For those more comfortable with the ’70s soul sound of Marley and the Wailers or Jimmy Cliff, Yellowman may come as something of a surprise. The horns and the I-Threes are gone, and the musical landscape which remains is stark and dangerous — a whining organ sweeps around a detached and deliberate bass and drum duo. The ruler of this flawed domain is not made cynical by it, though; Yellowman smiles and dances like a wise fool as he encourages the listener to dance and to achieve redemption from this world (“You can’t go to Zion with your carnal mind/Them have a dirty mind you have to leave them behind/You can’t go to Zion with your M-16/Your hands and your eyes must be pure and clean”). Yellowman combines the standard Rasta statements of faith with a sense of humor, which is appreciated by this reviewer — the lack of sexism (admittedly present in some reggae) is also conspicuous and satisfying. 

Try this LP, and let me know what you think about it (if you can find it — Mister Yellowman is not an easy album to find). You may never have heard of him before, but if you acquire a taste for toasters you’ll definitely enjoy Yellowman.