14 Friday, April 22, 1983 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

Bye Bye, BB

Humor can take subtle forms, quite often in the face of irony. Humor at the expense of others is often
the most entertaining, until the joke’s on you.

The Booze Brothers column has generated a wide readership on campus because it provides humor different from anything else in
The Davidsonian. Davidson can certainly use more self-examination in this apparent desert of satire, so we decided to run BB,
hoping to provide the tart refreshment Davidson sometimes seems to cry for — if Davidson can’t laugh at itself, then
it is a dry place indeed, we reasoned.

But the waterhole seems to have gone a bit sour in this oasis. The focus of the column shifted from
poking fun at Davidson institutions to poking fun at Davidson students. The column lost its original iconoclastic edge as it
centered on individuals who may or may not have deserved the comments they drew. Some students were not amused; others
were genuinely offended.

While any column claiming to satirize a community will surely offend someone (how could it be successful if it did
not?), we cannot justify continuing to run a column which primarily attacks individuals and carries out personal vendettas. In several
cases we didn’t realize contexts of certain comments in BB until they were pointed out to us. Our oversight; our
mistake. We should have done our homework.

But ultimately, we had to confront a problem as important as the offensiveness of BB: what is satire that has
no point? When deciding on the fate of BB, this question figured as much as our concern about offended readers.
We can figure no real good to come from these often very inside jokes, so we have decided to leave
BB back at the camel stand of humor.

Even the most Juvenalian of satirists, Jonathan Swift, had limits to the extent of his attacks: “He spared a hump,
or crooked nose, / Whose owners set not up for beaux,” he wrote of himself. In looking for a column
to replace the Booze Brothers, we plan to keep this attitude in mind. At the same time, however, we will
not hesitate to engage a columnist who is willing to upset a few for the good of all.

Finally, despite our misunderstanding, we wish to acknowledge the dedicated work of the Booze Brothers as a part of The
Davidsonian.

The TCPZ Memorial Paper Drive

LETTERS

Booze Brothers Offends

To the Editor:

This letter to the editor concerns that calumnous choir of fun-loving mudslingers fondly known as the Booze Brothers of Davidson
College. I’m sure that many of you have been subject at one time or another to the acrimonious wit of
those entertaining young chaps, and I must admit that I’ve enjoyed a chuckle or two myself after skimming over their
rather sizeable column. But have you ever wondered just who these gifted young comedians are and why they consistently refrain
from placing their names at the end of their little slanderous epistles? Perhaps they fear the recriminations and physically abusive
retaliations their cutting and often untrue, unkind remarks deserve; but then again, Tito, if I looked like a 200-pound Pillsbury
doughboy with slits for eyes, I suppose I might find that time spent criticizing others’ physical and mental “deficiencies” took
my mind off my own deplorable appearance too.

Take a moment and be honest with yourselves, Davidson students. If you know the particular Booze Brother I just referred
to, you might find the above remark amusing, but didn’t just a little tiny part of you cringe inside and
say, “That was really an ugly and unnecessary statement”? If not, then don’t continue reading this letter; you’ll miss the
entire point. The point I’m trying to make is that humor is one thing, but the use of a school
journal read by students, faculty, and parents alike to express rude personal opinions about other students’ personalities and physical appearance
is not only wrong, it’s immature, a waste of good newspaper, and not the least bit funny.

Rives Balcom ’84

‘Planet’ Posters

To the Editor:

I would like to thank the fine people who made the posters for the film “If You Love This Planet.”
Being a United States hater, I took great pride in the fact that these posters noted that the Justice Department
(Boo!! Hiss!!) called this movie “foreign propaganda.” I always knew those guys were up to something. Furthermore, the posters pointed
out that I’m not apathetic for thinking this way. Gee! It’s great to be involved! In fact, I’m so inspired
by everything that I’m now planning to produce a film myself (donations accepted — they are tax deductible) called The
Satanic Rites of John Glenn. It should be finished just by inauguration time.

I love you all,
Matt Morris
