10 Friday, October 28, 1983/The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Potential Competitiveness: Mistakes, Penalties Hurt Wildcats in 41-12 Loss

By SCOTT HUIE

Coach Bobby Knight of the Indiana Hoosiers, the perennial basketball power of the Mideast, once said: “Your opponent is yourself, your potential. I coach against the game. It’s the game that beats you. If you fool with it, it'll kill you.” It has killed the Davidson Wildcats. When a team such as the Citadel, not normally considered the cream of the Southern Conference, rolls over Davidson 41-12 as they did last Saturday, one has to wonder whether the 'Cats really can scale to that potential competitiveness that, they claim, still lingers.

In falling to 1-6, Davidson has handed away more than just a couple of games. It is as if playing mistake-free football were an honor code violation. “We're beating ourselves,” said freshman tailback Mike Cate. “Except for the James Madison game, there's never been an opponent that just linked up and whupped us. We’ve been competitive in just about every game. Heck, we could have beaten the Citadel, but it’s just those dumb mistakes that are killing us.”

A novelette could be written on those dumb mistakes, but let’s just restrict it to this: four fumbles, one interception, two punts that never got off because of bad snaps, and a whopping 13 penalties, most of which were for holding. Many came at crucial points. Of particular note was Cate’s first-quarter fumble at the Citadel one-yard line. “I really feel that Citadel was no more than a touchdown favorite,” said coach Ed Farrell. “I don’t know if eliminating all the errors would have been enough for us to win, but it certainly would have given us the opportunity.”

The opportunity did exist. In losing by 29, the Cats still controlled the ball ten minutes more than did the Bulldogs. Davidson also racked up 24 first downs to their 19 and ran 86 offensive plays to their 59. But the big play belonged to the Citadel. The Bulldog quarterback exploited an injury-plagued secondary for 347 yards, including five touchdown passes, one of which covered 84 yards. Said Farrell, “I thought we controlled their short passing well, but they adjusted and burned us long. What I’m particularly concerned with is our kicking game. In my 27 years of coaching I can’t ever recall a game where we’ve been so poor in that department.”

Drops Two Road Games

Soccer Fails To Clinch Championship Spot

By BOYD BLACKBURN

This week contained a couple of disappointments for Davidson's soccer team — namely losses to Marshall and South Carolina on the road. The Marshall game was most important — a win there would have clinched the Cats a spot in the Southern Conference championship game.

That trip started with a game Friday against the Cadets of VMI. Despite a poor showing, the Wildcats managed a 4-2 victory. VMI even scored the first goal as their right wing hit a long cross over Davidson's fullbacks, and the left wing headed it in. Thoughts of last year’s 1-0 loss to VMI crept into some heads, but it couldn’t happen again. Tony Cabrales made sure of that. On a tricky turn in the box, he managed to free himself for a second and lob the ball into the upper right-hand corner of the net. Davidson scored next when Brian Shockley broke free of the fullbacks, dribbled around the goalie, and chucked in the ball.

It looked like Dan Blood had put the game out of reach when he beat the goalie with a left-footed shot early in the second half. But VMI pulled within a goal again when they converted a corner kick with fifteen minutes left. Luckily, Gene Hicks picked this moment to get into the scoring action. His first goal of the year clinched this game played in the mud and drizzling rain.

The Marshall game two days later was the second game of the year on astro-turf. The first was a 3-1 victory; this one a 3-1 loss, although the match was closer than the score suggests. Marshall’s Thundering Herd scored first when the Wildcat fullbacks were again beaten on the right wing and had the long cross headed in. Marshall was anxious to discount the 6-0 drubbing they had taken here. They were playing well on their home turf with the crowd behind them. However, Davidson freshman Steve Stith evened the score before the end of the half on his only goal this year. Stith was left with an open net when Mike Mauzé’s dummy pulled the goalie out of position.having the difficulty we have been experiencing there.” Offensively, the 'Cats found a little punch in its passing game. Quarterback Keith Martin connected on 10 of 21 attempts for 133 yards, and his backup Jeff Davidson faces the premier football team in the Southern Conference, the Furman Paladins, who are 5-1-1 overall and 3-0-1 in the league. Farrell shuns moral victories like Jerry Falwell would a hooker on Trade Street. But realistically, that may be all we can hope for. Farrell shuns moral victories. Haney impressed with seven completions in nine attempts for 86 yards. The split end tandem of Todd Hermetz and Jeff McSwain accounted for 100 yards in pass receiving as they caught six and four passes respectively. Concerning the aerial attack, Farrell commented, “Against Citadel we passed well, but I’m still looking to get more yardage out of that phase of the game. Against many of our opponents, that’s the only way we can be competitive.” The rushing attack was mediocre at best, accounting for only 96 yards on 54 carries. Davidson’s two touchdowns, however, did come on the ground. Cate scored on an 18-yard burst in the second quarter, and Haney took it in from three yards out in the fourth quarter. Defensively, Will “Stone” Bynum provided his usual steady performance with 10 tackles. In tomorrow's homecoming game, position. Stith, in the infamous tradition of Davidson great Todd Lambert, decided he had to humiliate the defender first so he caromed the ball off his face and into the net. The second half started out slow and evenly played. A tie game looked probable. But when a Davidson fullback mishit a pass back to the keeper, Marshall’s forward easily slammed the ball home. Suddenly, adrenalin flowed into the Davidson attack but several chances produced no scores. As the end neared and all the Wildcats pushed up, the Herd made a quick counterattack goal which finished the score at 3-1. How can team A beat team B 6-0 and then lose 3-1 one week later? Soccer is a game of attack and counterattack. Chances to score will come for both teams. The team that finishes the best that day will win. Some days you have it, some days you don’t. Home field advantage doesn’t hurt either. South Carolina was a sad affair. It was a bright, sunny day for once, and the field was absolutely perfect — a soft, green cushion. To top it off, the SC sound system was jamming out the inspirational tunes of the Pretenders. How could Davidson lose? Indeed, although Davidson played their most skillful game of the year, the Cats failed to put the ball in the net, and a lone goal was all USC needed. The Gamecock goalie collected six saves in the closing minutes as Wildcat forwards pelted the goal, unable to penetrate that sacred space beyond the posts. The loss was a disappointment but not disheartening. In the locker room afterwards, David Flowers vowed, “That’s the last game we lose this year.” The rest of the team echoed his sentiments. They may well be right. Davidson is now 11-3-1 and ranked 8th in the South. They are 3-1 in the conference ahead of Marshall and ASU at 4-2 and 3-2 respectively. A win against VMI here and at least a tie versus ASU, also at home, will get that spot in the championship. The opponent in that game would be either Citadel or Furman, the team the Cats play tomorrow. The Paladins are ranked eighth nationally and are shooting for their fourth consecutive Southern Conference championship. In last year’s meeting, Furman piled up 56 first half points before settling on a 63-14 final. So far this year, all they’ve done is defeat Atlantic Coast Conference member Georgia Tech in Atlanta and blanked conference foe Appalachian State 49-0. Featured in the Paladin backfield is two-time Southern Conference player-of-the-year Stanford Jennings, who leads the league with 764 yards on 117 carries for a 6.5 yard average. Key your defense on him, and Furman will burn you through the air. Their quarterback this year has completed 46 of 68 passes for a 68 percent completion rate. Yes, they are that awesome. Huie’s Prediction: Furman 41, Davidson 7.