4 Friday, May 6, 1983 / The Davidsonian

CCRL Sub-Committee Studies Drinking

By DAN VOORHIS

The Committee on Campus and Religious Life is currently struggling with problems which the proposed change in North Carolina’s drinking age laws would produce if passed this fall. A subcommittee formed to study the matter formally presented its ideas to the Committee last Wednesday. “It clearly presents many problems,” said subcommittee chairman Charlie Summers, “but if the state changes the law we’re stuck.”

The state may raise the drinking age sometime this fall. Since the nature of the bill remains undefined, the CCRL can only make broad policy recommendations for the new College president to review when setting up the rules. The College is trapped between strictly enforcing the law, which some have suggested would harm student social life, and ignoring the law, which sets a bad example and invites police interference. “We want to teach respect for the law, provide guidelines for all social organizations, but without becoming the vice squad,” said Summers.

The most difficult issue concerns drinking on Patterson Court. According to the subcommittee’s recommendation, the houses will not be forced to conform to any policy changes, although all will probably cooperate with the College’s suggestions. The CCRL recommended that the houses rearrange their parties so that they control the alcohol supply. The responsibility of breaking the law then falls on the individual rather than the house. Dean of Students Will Terry suggested, “No kegs; a single entrance to check I.D.s; BYOB; and smaller or closed parties.” It will be the houses’ responsibility not to police parties but to reduce the chances of the law being broken. The Code of Responsibility will be altered to include the new law.

Political Science Classes

By JEFFREY MANN

Two political science classes have conducted scientific, generalizable surveys of the student body: Dr. Mary Thornberry’s Political Analysis class interviewed 96 students, and Dr. Tom Kazee’s Public Opinion class tracked down 206.

Kazee’s class is studying “the formation, change, and measurement of political attitudes.” They completed a poll to learn first hand the limitations of surveys and the meaning behind the information the surveys provide. Each student was given a list of ten randomly selected students to interview. Students developed the entire poll including selecting topics, writing questions, interviewing, and analyzing data using the College’s computer.

Thornberry’s class studies “the analytical approaches and research methods used by contemporary political scientists.” They used the smaller survey to see how social scientists use statistics to evaluate data. Both surveys covered overlapping but not identical general areas. The following are selected percentage results from the surveys.

The Equal Rights Amendment should be added to the Constitution of the United States.
23.3 strongly agree
39.8 agree
9.7 undecided
22.3 disagree
4.9 strongly disagree

The following is proposed national policy statement: “Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or any state on account of sex” [the text of the ERA]. Do you favor, or oppose, such a policy?
94.5 favor
5.5 oppose

Do you favor, or oppose, an immediate, mutual, verifiable freeze on the testing, production, and deployment of all nuclear weapons by the United States and the Soviet Union?
80.1 favor
13.6 oppose
5.8 don’t knowgovernment of the United States should provide increased military aid and advisors to El Salvador.
0.5 strongly agree
18.9 agree
14.1 undecided
48.5 disagree
18.0 strongly disagree

The Constitution should be amended to require that the budget of the Fed-

Terry stressed the passive nature of this enforcement policy. “They will not be encouraged to drink, but it is not our primary responsibility to enforce the law,” he said. The CCRL has tried to research the

7.8 strongly agree
27.3 agree
11.2 undecided
38.0 disagree
15.6 strongly disagree

Considering your general political attitudes, how would you describe yourself?
2.0 very liberal
32.2 liberal
41.6 moderate
24.3 conservative
0.0 very conservative

Name four current justices of the U.S. Supreme Court.
52.1 could name none
21.9 one
10.4 two
5.2 three
10.4 four

If otherwise qualified, should members of the following groups be allowed to teach in the public schools:
a. Communists: 64.2—yes 34.8—no
b. Homosexuals: 70.2—yes 28.7—no
c. Ku Klux Klan: 31.9—yes 67.0—no

Some Davidson students claim that

File photo

problem in other colleges. Dartmouth, under the same drinking-age limit, described the situation as “a mess.” The attempts to control drinking have caused conflict between the students and administration. The 900 Room, as a College-owned establishment serving alcohol, will require strict enforcement of the drinking age if the new law is passed. The College does not want to exclude freshmen from discos, dances, or other 900 Room entertainment, so it will probably use a close check at the bar of either color-coded IDs or hand stamps. Freshman halls present a problem in the relationship between freshmen and their hall counselors. The CCRL does not want the counselors, representatives of the College, to alienate their advisees. The Council proposes passive enforcement of the drinking age. No hall money will be spent on alcohol; hall functions such as mixers will focus on other activities. The counselors will not deal with those drinking in their rooms. The CCRL hopes to change the social atmosphere of the freshman hall away from drinking without causing conflicts. Change in policy will not affect upperclass dorms. Members of the CCRL subcommittee are: Charlie Summers, Sam Hay, Rob Spaugh, Doug Ammar, Roxanna Guilford, and Hartley Hall. The remaining members of the CCRL are: Chairman Will Terry, professors Laurence Cain, Ruth Ault, and Peter Krentz, and students Emily Davis, Buncie Hay, and Beverly Hart.

Conduct Surveys

they are dissatisfied with male/female social relationships on campus. Others are happy with the social situation at Davidson. How do you feel? On a scale from one to five, with one being very dissatisfied and five being very satisfied, where would you place yourself?
3.4 one
18.4 two
26.2 three
37.4 four
14.6 five

If you are dissatisfied, why are you dissatisfied? (open-ended question)
25.0 generally strained relationships
36.8 ratio unfair to men socially
4.5 double standard
4.5 overemphasis on academics
6.8 campus too small
4.5 men dating non-Davidson women
15.9 other

The current male/female ratio at Davidson is approximately 2 to 1. If you were placed in the head administrative position at Davidson, would you set a ratio between males and females?
41.8 yes
58.2 no

Is there a place for sororities in the Patterson Court system?
60.9 yes
39.1 no