18 Friday, September 16, 1983 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

Black Woman Trustee

The gallery of Trustee photographs at the south end of Chambers illustrates how the College is beginning to expand its views about geography, race, and gender. Amid the sea of Southern, white, professional men appears Thelma Adair — Davidson’s only black woman Trustee.

Davidson has traditionally looked to Southern, upper-class men for much of its faculty, administrators, and trustees. This orientation will have to change if the student body changes. Appointing a non-Southern, non-business-oriented, non-male, non-white Trustee could represent a significant step for Davidson. Adair’s appointment may be a part of the push toward making Davidson a nationally known college. As rising tuition erodes Davidson’s applicant pool, and students seek institutions with more diversity, such a transformation may become necessary.

With this year’s freshman class as an example, Davidson seems to be reaching beyond its traditional sources. But Adair’s appointment may be a fluke, a one-shot deal. Unless Trustees from varied backgrounds come to Davidson, the Trustees’ homogeneity will conflict with the increasing diversity of the student body. The backgrounds of the Trustees should match those of the College’s students, but the discrepancy is growing with each class. Five hundred women attend Davidson, yet in 10 years only two women of 48 have been appointed Trustees. Only two Trustees come from non-Southern states while 30 percent of Davidson’s 1400 students are not from the South.

Suppose Davidson progresses from a regional institution into a truly national one while the majority of the Trustees continue to come from the South. The appointment of non-stereotypical trustees such as Thelma Adair will appear to be only token gestures, and not part of a real commitment to assimilating previously disenfranchised groups into the Davidson community. If that happens, Davidson will never be anything but a good regional school.

Semesters 101

Most upperclassmen have already heard more about the semester system conversion than they care to, especially the seniors. They’ll be gone before any of that happens. If you’re a senior, this may be a good place to stop and move on to the comics. Otherwise, read on.

Last Spring, long after Davidson students finished their exams and weeks past the last Davidsonian deadline, the Faculty approved the current incarnation of the semester system. (See front page story for details.) The current scheme does not provide enough time for exams. Four exam days with one reading day for three exams does not compare well with five days for five exams with no reading day. We are confident you will agree after your first bout of exams. The SGA is now calling for seven days for exams and two reading days. Some compromise should be possible between the two Faculty and SGA proposals.

We support the SGA Semester Implementation Committee in its efforts to lengthen the exam period to something close to reasonable. Davidson is already enough of an academic pressure cooker without cramming more pressure into the exam period. But most of us don’t really care: When this all hits the fan we’ll be off in the real world earning bucks to contribute to the phonathon (more on that later).

If ever there were an issue for freshmen to get involved in, this is it. That humes assignment might look awfully important now, but a little bit of time spent lobbying a professor or working with the SGA could pay off untold dividends.

Curriculum Requirements

To the Editor:

During this year the Curriculum Requirements Committee will follow the standard set by the Faculty Executive Committee and permit a reduced course load for seniors during only one term in the year when the only reason given is that the student has excess credit. For other adequate reasons each case is judged on its merits.

Some perspective will help in understanding the situation. Davidson wishes to make best use of its resources and one evidence of that is the standing requirement that three courses is the normal student load, and exceptions must have individual approval by the CurriculumRequirements Committee. Davidson does not want any significant number of part-time students, in contrast to some colleges which want to attract part-time students. It was only several years ago that excess credit per se began to be accepted as adequate for a reduced load. Since then, the number of seniors with excess credit has grown because of student participation in Advanced Placement, our several summer programs, extra course registration, and transfer credit. It was thought that the no-reduction-in-tuition policy would work to control the number of part-time students, but it has not worked out that way. In fact, about 175 seniors (half the senior class) took advantage of that option last year. The Executive Committee thought the situation had developed in ways not intended and therefore took its corrective action. Another factor is that eligibility for certain financial support and other situations depends on full-time enrollment. If there are enough excess credits, the students might not need to be enrolled for all three terms. It is our hope that when seniors have the opportunity to do so, they will do more than the minimum for graduation. There are many courses and professors that the senior "never had time for before." It is a commendable trait which leads one to do more than the minimum. May it continue to be evident at Davidson.

Richard C. Burts, Jr.
Curriculum Requirements Committee Chairman

Thanks—and Beyond

To the Editor:

It was great when it all began... and it was great even in the end. My Junior Year Abroad in Montpellier was brought to a surprise close last April—a close that was not too pleasant, but a close that could have been much, much worse. I am thankful for lots. Hoping not to imitate a garrulous actor upon receiving an Emmy Award, I will get to the point: My fellow JYA’ers provided my immediate aid with memorable hospital visits, handmade chocolate chip cookies, incredible books, powerful pizza, and my favorite French pastries. Seeing this as a timely excuse to practice his French, my father soon arrived, and he and Homer handled all the insurance, medical, legal, and educational details. Then the warm wave of transcontinental concern washed in from the U.S. Friends and family sent cards, telegrams, and letters across an ocean that no longer seemed unconquerable. With all this positive power, my humor and motivation soared. I soon changed hospitals and countries and the concern continued—now through phone calls, postcards, and tête-à-tête visits. I never felt or thought that it was Me Against The Cruel World. I was not alone. That was clear.

About the time Davidson was wrapping up another school year, my family received a suspicious-looking white envelope. Enclosed was a sizeable check made out to Ma Bell and a letter explaining the physical display of concern. The touching typed letter was signed "Chris’ Davidson Family." And three months later, still the concern continues...

Now to sound like that actor nervously fondling his Emmy before the thin, dark microphone: I want to thank Mom and Dad, my Montpellier, Davidson, and Peekskill families, and all those who helped to make my Recovery Road short and smooth. Your concern, thoughts, and love were invaluable. Thank you, and beyond.

Chris Gunn

The Davidsonian welcomes letters of general interest, but we adhere to these four guidelines:
1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2) We require that letters be neatly typed.
3) We require that letters be signed and include the author's phone number and address. If you have a compelling reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.
4) We reserve the right not to print letters that a) function as advertisements; b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes; c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in other letters printed on the same topic.