16 Friday, March 25, 1983 The Davidsonian OPINIONS

A Christian View on the Arms Race
Tim Ritchie and Chris Marshburn

Is it possible for a Christian to reconcile the ethical commitment of his faith with maintaining an effective nuclear deterrent?
We believe it is possible, indeed necessary, for concerned Christians to support such a policy.

Consider, for example, the Judaeo-Christian concept of shalom. Shalom is usually translated “peace,” but to the forefathers of our faith,
it meant a total, all-encompassing sense of well-being; certainly more than the absence of violence. Shalom included justice in addition
to the absence of hostilities. Thus, a condition of slavery, even though there was no war in the land, would
not be considered shalom. We believe that shalom, peace with justice, is the ideal that Christians should be striving for.
We believe that, further, this includes shalom on an international basis. In light of the current world political situation, this
demands the maintenance of an effective nuclear deterrent.

For support, we appeal to the morality of defending basic human rights. In order to secure, and in our case,
maintain, these rights, one must be willing to fight against those forces which would threaten to take them away. Not
to fight against such forces is morally repugnant, out of proportion to the albeit morally difficult act of taking up
arms against another human being. In World War II, perfectly moral human beings rose up to fight against other human
beings because, in the long run, their willingness to sacrifice life for liberty would secure greater good than their refusal
to take part in violence.

Most Christians throughout the history of the Church have affirmed the right of self-defense. Turning the other cheek was fine
as long as the other was also willing to turn his cheek. Otherwise, the one with the unturned cheek has
his way; aggressive bad defeats passive good, and society is an even more evil place to live. In a morally
deficient world, one must choose the lesser of two evils from time to time. Hence, when German tanks rumbled across
Europe and extermination camps threatened an entire race, Christians were compelled to respond violently.

The problem is that we live in a nuclear age, and the equation of destruction has been raised to inconceivable
levels on both sides. No one disputes that nuclear weapons are certainly the most horrible weapons ever constructed. But horribleness
is still a matter of degree. Though great wisdom and care are required to ensure that nuclear weapons are never
used, they do not rule out the necessity of continuing to construct and possess them.

Christians should consider a few facts before they prematurely decide the possession of nuclear weapons is in all cases immoral:
1. Nuclear weapons are unlikely to disappear from our planet in the conceivable future. Even if the West were to
disavow them, and the Soviet Union were to follow suit, other nations would surely continue to possess, buy, or invent
them, our moral example to the contrary. Whoever possessed them would hold tremendous power over those who didn’t. Nuclear weapons
in the hands of a Qadaffi is itself a frightening possibility.
2. The proper approach to nuclear weapons, then, consists in realistic attempts to control them, and not in self-righteously washing
our hands of them. This means decreasing their numbers, and also ensuring that no one has enough to be tempted
to use them. This is, of course, the “balance of power,” a phrase which the peace movement dislikes because it
points out a major weakness in its argument. In addition, because nations are so frightened that nuclear weapons will be
used against them, if any sort of war breaks out, a nuclear balance of power lessens the danger of even
a conventional war between the nuclear powers.
3. If the nuclear balance of power is surrendered by unilateral disarmament, or threatened by a premature freeze, the danger
of war increases. This is simply common sense if one observes the history of any totalitarian nation as it seeks
to expand.

Christian realists acknowledge that the possession of nuclear weapons can never be morally good. But they can be morally acceptable
in a morally deficient world. Thus, Christians are obligated to ensure that the deterrent force of the “less evil” side
is effective. Obviously, nuclear weapons are likely to raise the level of damage done in war. Christians, though, should consider
whether the harm to be avoided by weakening our deterrent or surrendering it may still be even greater.

The threat of nuclear war should be a significant concern of Christians. The danger exists, however, that efforts on behalf
of the anti-nuclear movement will serve merely as a form of “cheap grace,” moral posturing, and an escape from other,
perhaps more pressing, global problems such as world hunger and the redistribution of wealth. Every social movement, Christianity notwithstanding, has
its fanatics. Those of the anti-nuclear movement have fashioned their own brand of secular apocalypticism, and realisticChristians would do well
to steer clear of their enticingly simplistic, often naive, rhetoric. The issue of nuclear deterrence is a complex issue and
demands long and considered meditation in the light of God’s word and contemporary reality. For thirty years most Christians have
accepted the principles of self-defense and deterrence. Paradoxically, these have been the most peaceful in the history of the West.
(cf. London Economist Feb. 13, 1983)

Tim Ritchie is a senior Religion major who spent his junior year in Edinburgh, Scotland. Chris Mashburn, also a senior
religion major, spent his junior year in Jerusalem, Israel.

SGA Should Recognize Court Polls Limitations
Dr. Thomas Kazee

Following the 1980 presidential election, in which most public opinion polls incorrectly forecast a very close race between Ronald Reagan
and Jimmy Carter, the political cartoonist Auth took a good-natured poke at the “science” of opinion measurement. “I don’t know
about you,” one pollster — dressed as a sorcerer — says to his bewildered colleague, “but I’m going back to
tea leaves and eye of newt.”

Opinion surveys, with their multistage stratified samples, probability theories, and ranges of error, often seem more like astrology than science.
However, we continue to use them, and to be fascinated by them. The simple reason is that public opinion polls
are the simplest and (sometimes) the most accurate means of measuring attitudes in large populations, if sufficient care is taken
in interpreting the results. The responsibility of the person or group conducting the survey is to be quite explicit about
what the survey says — and what it does not say.

It is this last point which is of particular relevance for the Davidson student body and student government. Several weeks
ago, the Patterson Court Study Committee of the SGA conducted a survey of the Davidson student body. I have been
asked by the Davidsonian to comment on that survey, discussing particularly the methods used and the interpretive limits which need
to be observed when evaluating its results. I will confine my comments to those issues, for I have neither seen
all the data nor feel particularly competent to suggest to the SGA what the results mean; that is the job
of governments.

Specifically, one needs to ask two important questions. First, how was the survey conducted? Second, and clearly a related question,
what are the limits in interpreting the results? The first question is certainly very important, for the results of the
survey can be generalized to the entire Davidson student body only under two conditions: if all students were surveyed, or
those who were surveyed were randomly selected. This simply means that every Davidson student had an equal probability of being
included in the survey. Neither condition was met. The response rate for the survey, which was a pencil and paper
questionnaire filled out by students and returned to hall counselors and SGA senators, was approximately 25 percent. One cannot conclude
that the 25 percent who responded are representative of all students. Perhaps those who were most opposed to self-selection as
it currently operates were motivated to respond, while supporters tended to throw away the questionnaire (assuming that the status quo
would be maintained). One cannot conclude — even if the distribution of respondents “seems” to reflect the student population —
that the group which responded is representative of all students.

Other potential problems of method include poorly worded questions, or insufficient response options, or poor question order. Though several of
the items on the survey might have required more information about self-selection than most students possess, in general the questionnaire
seems to me to be well constructed and relatively objective. One can always cite problems with specific questions, but, to
a certain extent, bias — like filth — is in the eye of the beholder.

What can one do with the results, given what we have noted about method? One cannot say that certain policy
changes ought to be made because they are “favored by a majority of the students.” The survey tells you nothing
about the student population as a whole. Should it be disregarded and rejected as a fruitless enterprise? Indeed not, for
the results — even though they are not generalizable — may be suggestive of significant patterns of Davidson opinion. This
is particularly true if the results from the one-fourth who responded are in a clear and consistent direction. Hypothetically, for
example, one might say that “there is reason to believe” that change is desired by many students. The survey can
be extremely useful in identifying problems with self-selection or even suggesting improvements in the system. It cannot, however, be said
to be the definitive statement of Davidson student opinion.

I conclude with a note of encouragement for the SGA, for I feel that surveys of this type are quite
appropriate and legitimate vehicles for ascertaining student opinions about a variety of issues. They will continue to be, however, only
so long as those who utilize such tools fully recognize their limitations.
