Good & Bad

Input needed for - Uncredible Journey

Presidential Selection

Athletics and academics. Davidson got two fine Christmas gifts in its stocking this year. Beating Notre Dame brought back basketball glory not seen in ten years. Davidson’s twentieth Rhodes scholarship also renewed a long tradition, but with a new slant. Two weeks ago, Elizabeth Kiss became Davidson’s first woman ever to win a nationally competing scholarship. A fitting capstone to ten years of coeducation, Elizabeth is not only a symbol of Davidson academics but also of the achievements of women at Davidson. We are no longer a bastion of male education, a tradition we are all the better off for dropping.

Although women fare well and have contributed much here over the last decade, we still discriminate in our sexist admissions policies. Last year’s flexible percentage quotas on incoming freshmen were a start. But why are there quotas in the first place? Surely the transition period into coeducation is over; the best-qualified students should be the ones accepted. There is no excuse for biasing acceptances toward either sex. Today at 1:00 P.M., Elizabeth is giving a short talk about her Rhodes scholarship to the Board of Trustees. We sincerely hope that Davidson’s first woman Rhodes scholar in their midst will emphasize that equal access admission is long overdue.

The main reason for the trustees’ meeting today is to discuss the method of selection of the new president. The constitution of Davidson states, “The President is appointed by the Trustees to serve for such term and on such conditions as they consider appropriate. The Trustees shall establish procedures to assure that Trustee Presidential Search Committees have consultations with Faculty, Students, and the Administrative Staff in carrying out their Committee function.”

At 2:00 p.m., the Trustees will divide into three groups and hold open meetings with students, faculty, and staff. These meetings are the start of decisions which will affect Davidson for years to come. Whoever is chosen is chosen by the whole campus community and not just the trustees. Although the trustees have the final say, it is vital that the new president is acceptable to everyone. These meetings are, in the long run, most important for the future well-being of the school. We must be able to make wise decisions in selecting the new president. Listen to what the Constitution says about the powers and duties of the President: “The President is the chief executive officer of the College and Chairman of the Faculty. He is responsible to the Trustees for the achievement of stated purposes of the College and for its ongoing operations, and to this end, he shall have the foregoing general powers... all powers commonly associated with and required for the discharge of the duties of a chief executive officer of a college. He represents the College in its relationships with related associations, other institutions, the news media, government agencies, alumni, and the general public. He organizes and directs administrative officers in the performance of their assigned duties.”

Like a marriage, the person must be very carefully considered before a long-term agreement is reached. This person is responsible for the long-term success of everything from basketball to Rhodes Scholarship candidates.

By ANN G. MEADOR ’85

Because Christmas seemed such an appropriate time to make pilgrimages, we ventured forth over the holidays to see what we consider the most Good Thing existing. Good Thing Central. We’ve never been truly inspired before, but something came over us as we laid eyes upon this special, special place. We could think only in poetry as we approached. First, it was in haiku:

Oh, Elvis’s house
Like a weeping willow branch
Graceland for tourists

Then in limerick:

To Elvis’s house we depart,
Oh, Elvis himself, he was smart
Though debauched by some
And oft called scum,
He’ll always be king of our heart.

And finally in heroic couplet:

Down Elvis Presley Boulevard we went
To see the house enshrined, so heaven sent.

We were greeted at the door by Elvis’s great-aunt and tour guide Elvisse, who still lives in the house. She took us on a special trip down memory lane. “You know,” she told us, “I don’t think Elvis is really dead. I think he’s still living in Paris like Jim Morrison is.

“Here’s his living room,” she continued. “Priscilla gold-plated his piano for him for their first anniversary. And there’s the famous fifteen-foot-long sofa.”

She wouldn’t take us upstairs to see the bathroom, even though she confided that “it really is a techno-pleasure marvel. I took a Jacuzzi up there just last week.” We were content to see the racquetball court where Elvis might actually have played.

Wondrous as all this was to us, the most Good moment of the tour occurred when we actually touched one of Elvis’s eighteen television sets scattered throughout the house. Aunt Elvisse probably would have killed us had she known, but we had to take the chance. It was a beautiful Magnavox Mediterranean-style walnut veneer console. Color. We tried to bring back some lint from his rug, but she made us give it back. It didn’t matter; our pilgrimage was complete without procuring a relic.

king
Elvis
sequin suits
love me tender
teddy bear
hunk-a
king

THE DAVIDSONIAN/7 January 1983