The Davidsonian/Friday, April 1, 1983

SPORTS

Baseball Closes Week With Big Win
Clobbers Catawba 16-6
By BOBBY BARNES

The Davidson baseball team closed out a week of games by trouncing Catawba 16-6 Tuesday night. The Wildcats, 2-2 on the week and 4-9 on the season, put on their best offensive show of the season, pounding out 16 hits off four Catawba pitchers. Freshmen Keith Helfant, Tim Waters, and John Mahoney hit 10 for 16 with 12 runs between them. Mahoney led the way with four hits, including three doubles and four RBIs. Another freshman, Matt Walker, rebounded from a recent injury, winning his second game of the year in three starts. Walker shut down the Indians through four innings before yielding six runs in the fifth. Ed Whitesides relieved “the Hammer” and pitched four innings of no-hit ball to earn his first save of the season. Philip Gordon added a pair of singles, good for three RBIs. The victory allowed the Cats to avenge a tough 4-3 loss to Catawba last week.

The Cats opened the week with a doubleheader against Gardner-Webb. The Cats erupted for twelve runs, winning the opener 12-6. Scott Weaver picked up his first collegiate win with last-inning help from Walker. Weaver also led the Cats at the plate with a first-inning grand slam. Senior co-captain Gordon broke loose with three hits in as many trips to the plate and collected five hits on the day. David Emery went 2 for 4 including a two-run homer.

Ruggers Trounce Belmont Abbey
By TOM HENRY

The Davidson rugby team trounced Belmont Abbey 36-10 last Saturday. Abbey played a hard, physical, and uncompromising game; Davidson failed to turn pressure into points in an even first half. Chris Klett opened the scoring and also set up Todd Thompson with an opportunity to scythe in for a try (touchdown). “Skipper” Brueggemann kicked the extra points, leaving the score at 12-10 at halftime. In the second half, Pat Millen replaced Patrick McMaster, who had caught a cleat under his left eye and needed ten stitches. The forwards who had persevered in the first period suddenly found new unity and inspiration. Could it be that they saw the kegs at the end of the tunnel? This new strength allowed Theo Wright to pounce into the end zone for a score. Doug Ammar helped Charles Jenkins set up Chris Klett for a play. All the traditional workhorses of the team grabbed themselves some glory with a score save Joe McMullen, perhaps the hardest worker of them all. Charles Jenkins scored, and his second-row partner Chuck Lifford surged over for the first score of his rugby playing career. Though the day belonged to the forwards, the backs played well and smothered Abbey’s counter-attacks. James Rampton was given one half opportunity, and though he failed to score, he showed the other twenty-nine players on the pitch just how fast he really is. Hunter Gourley also excelled with some demonic tackles, and freshman Tommy Cardwell played a very steady game at fullback.

Ruggers tear it up in last Saturday's victory over Belmont Abbey

Gardner-Webb bounced backIn the second game, 5-4, earning a split behind a four-run third inning. Scott Redding was tabbed with the loss in his first start of the year. Gordon and Weaver both went 2 for 3, and Whitesides turned in another fine relief performance with three shutout innings. The Wildcats faced the North Carolina Tarheels Monday night. The 18th ranked ’Heels rocked Davidson starter Bobby Barnes for four first-inning runs. Barnes then settled down and allowed just two hits the rest of the game. The Cats, however, had offensive troubles of their own. UNC starting pitcher Brad Powell (5-1), demonstrating the form that prompted the San Francisco Giants to offer him $80,000 to sign out of high school, struck out eleven batters and yielded only four hits. Weaver collected two hits, including a seventh-inning home run. Carolina (24-4) picked up a pair of unearned runs in the sixth, making the final score 6-1. Junior Jeff McSwain is expected to come off the injured-reserve list soon and will add speed and power to the lineup. Davidson faces a tough Buffalo team Saturday before beginning its all-important Southern Conference schedule Monday with a double-header against nationally-ranked East Tennessee State at 1:00. Monday is hat day at Sarge Greer Field. The first 200 fans wearing a hat to the game will get in free.

Women’s club lacrosse exhibited style and increasing finesse in last Wednesday’s game against Guilford.

Women’s Lacrosse
Davidson’s Women’s Club Lacrosse team defeated the University of North Carolina’s women’s club team 10-6 Wednesday afternoon. The game was the first victory in the team’s two-year history. Davidson lost to Guilford College 13-5 on Saturday. An eleventh, unofficial point was scored by Chris Holden, the team’s guest goalie. When Davidson players Ruthie Farrior and Pam Strader volunteered to fill gaps in Carolina’s lineup, Holden took over Farrior’s spot in the goal. Charlotte Alston, Anne Hockett, and Susan Norman contributed goals to Davidson’s winning effort. Davidson plays at home again Wednesday afternoon.

Men’s Tennis Rolls
— By TIM MCGAUGHEY

Men’s Tennis rolled over East Stroudsburg and obliterated Slippery Rock before bowing to Wake Forest this week. Saturday morning, the Wildcats out-hustled the East Stroudsburg racketeers to a 7-2 victory. Mark Nottingham, Craig Hall, and Victor Taylor registered especially impressive wins. Davidson outclassed Slippery Rock (Pennsylvania) on Monday. The number four seed, Craig Hall, registered his second consecutive 6-0, 6-0 demolition of an opponent. The Cats, losing only 1 set during the afternoon, cruised to a 9-0 victory. The team traveled to Winston-Salem and faced Wake Forest University on Tuesday. The Deacons came away with an 8-1 victory. The tandem of Victor Taylor and Shep Robinson posted the Cats’ only win. The match left the Wildcats with a 7-5 record for the season. Sophomore team member Shep Robinson looks forward to late-season play against Southern Conference opponents, which he feels should “increase the sharpness of each team member.” Robinson hopes to win “for Victor [his partner] the Southern Conference title.” The tandem’s only loss this season has been to North Carolina. They won key matches over Wake and N.C. State.