THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXIII, Number 4
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, October 7, 1983

Terry Forms Committee To Enforce Self-Selection
By DAN VOORHIS and JOHN RUPPENTHAL

A new student committee formed by the Dean of Students Will Terry will have the power to enforce self-selection more
strictly than in the past and will focus on settling conflicts between prospective freshmen and Patterson Court’s admission programs. Committee
Chairman John Hackett stressed that while the group has sanction power, “it is definitely not what we're trying to do.
Sanctions are secondary. We're trying to protect the rights of freshmen to self-select.” He sees the committee as an impartial
body whose “main purpose is to mediate with the freshmen through counseling.”

The officially stated purpose of the committee is first “to counsel a freshman who is having difficulty with the self-selection
process.” Second, it seeks “to help eliminate the past abuses of the system,” and third “to adjudicate abuses as they
arise, including sanctions.”

Following Spirit And Letter
The purpose of the committee derives from the desire to ensure that on-campus fraternities follow the spirit as well as
the letter of self-selection. Self-selection demands complete freedom from restrictions for the freshmen. Terry commented that “there is a built-in
paradox between self-selection and fraternities.” For fraternities to retain a measure of selectivity, they must operate in a gray area
that can still pass as self-selective.

Under the present system — a compromise reached when the system was founded in 1972 — fraternities give “oral encouragements”
but not discouragements. Those receiving encouragements will become a member of the national fraternity. Freshmen who self-select the fraternity without
the house’s approval can eat there yet not be a national member. An unencouraged pledge often endures social abuse from
the members.

The committee has six members from both fraternities and eating houses. Terry will back the group by referring all self-selection
cases to the committee and also by giving it power to administer sanctions. The committee has visited all the freshmen
halls to explain freshman rights under self-selection. Freshmen must shoulder the responsibility to “show consistent long-term interest” and to learn
house rules in order for the committee to have grounds for grievance, Hackett said.

Sanctions remain a threat in an intractable situation. They come under the Code of Responsibility in stages of increasing severity:
written censure; $200 fine or work detail; delayed signing of new members; denial of any new members; and rescinding a
house’s lease. Hackett believes the committee is necessary to keep Patterson Court vital. The houses operating in the gray areas
of the system currently provide “unhealthy competition on the Court. It tends to polarize the houses and the members,” Hackett
said. He considers the committee the necessary instrument for easing unhealthy competition.

Mandate Acted Upon
The committee has already acted on its mandate. It has forbidden until at least Thanksgiving the “rolling bid” system of
encouragements, where fraternities give (Continued on page 6)

Davidson Unites In Support Of Janus Stowe
By LISA THOMAS

Janus Stowe is in Baltimore awaiting a bone marrow transplant, but the Davidson community continues its efforts to raise funds
to defray the exorbitant costs of her treatment. Stowe, 15, is the daughter of Wayne Stowe, the owner of the
Davidson Exxon service station. She suffers from lymphoblastic leukemia, a variety which accounts for 85 percent of all childhood leukemia.
Although in 1959 this form of

Inside This Week
-Sentelle Hell: Dorm residents discover cryptic, inexplicable attic art. Page 7
-Soccer Rolls: Record grows to 6-1-1 overall. Page 10
-College Bowl Roundup: Intramurals begin; hot rivalries expand. Page 8
-Locker Room: Sound on the equestrian delights. Page 12
-PCC President Speaks: Rob Spaugh defends the Commons’s motives. Page 13

leukemia was almost a sure death sentence, in 1979 the chance of remission in children with thisdisease was better than
90 percent. Stowe has been undergoing treatment for the past four years, but she was admitted to Johns Hopkins University
on Monday where she will receive the most important part of the treatment, the bone marrow transplant. The process has
already begun and the transplant is scheduled for Friday, Oct. 14. The cost for the procedure will be between $75,000
and $100,000.

The Davidson Fire Department organized a “Fun(d)” Day last Saturday to make their contribution to the Stowes’ medical fund. The
day began with a “fun run” that was directed by the Davidson Track Club and the Davidson College Cheerleaders. The
run was followed by an auction, an attic sale, and several bake sales of goods contributed by local organizations. All
of the money from these events and from a general donation jar contributed to the medical fund. Assistant Fire Chief
James Alexander Jr. said, “We did anything we could do to make a dollar.” Their efforts culminated in a grand
total of $4,389 from the events.

Campus organizations are also helping out. The Phi Gamma Delta fraternity and Fannie and Mable eating house will join forces
October 21 and 22 to hold a volleyball marathon. Players are collecting pledges per game and they will play volleyball
from Friday afternoon until Saturday afternoon. All the money collected will go to the Janus Stowe Medical Fund. Fiji president
Tom Hissam said, “It’s mostly just to get students conscious of what's going on.” The two groups hope to raise
$1,000. Other groups such as the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity have taken up collections among their members for the Stowe
fund. According to Sigma Phi Epsilon member Eric Hill, his fraternity will hold work days around the community. The Sig
Eps will do yard and housework for pay which will be donated to the fund.

Piedmont Bank is handling the Janus Stowe Medical Fund which already has collected over $50,000. A bank representative said that
the bulk of the money has come from private donations. Many donations came from Mount Mourne, where the Stowes live,
and from Mooresville, but some have come in from out of state. The Stowes were required to have $50,000 to
begin the treatment at Johns Hopkins, but that is only approximately half of the total cost. There will be many
more bills to pay.

---

Four Arrested For Drinking
By DAVID McGEE

Three Davidson students and one Queens College student were charged with drinking violations last weekend by James Barefoot, a North
Carolina Alcohol Law Enforcement agent for Mecklenburg County. Three of the violations occurred at the “Strawberry Fields Forever” party held
by the Phi Gamma Delta (Fiji) fraternity last Friday night. Freshman David Mathews and Deborah Rhodes, a student at Queens
College, were charged with possessing a mixed beverage while under age. Both were given citations to appear in Mecklenburg County
District Court.

While Barefoot was writing Rhodes a ticket on Beaty Street off the fraternity’s property, senior Robert Finch approached Barefoot, and
they exchanged words. Barefoot said he told Finch he was under arrest, Finch ran away, and Barefoot ran after and
tackled Finch. Barefoot’s pants were torn during the scuffle. After taking Finch to the Mecklenburg County Jail, Barefoot charged him
with intoxication and disorderly conduct, resisting arrest, and destruction of personal property (the pair of pants). Finch’s hearing has been
set for Oct. 18. Finch declined comment until after the hearing.

In a separate incident, Barefoot issued a citation to senior Tommy Kirk for possessing a mixed beverage on public roads
and on Alcoholic Beverage Control property. Barefoot said he gave Kirk a citation at the ABC store in Cornelius. Kirk
allegedly had a mixed drink while in the passenger seat of a car and while on ABC property, Barefoot said.

Dean of Students Will Terry said that the Dean’s Office will not press Code of Responsibility violation charges against the
students involved.
