The Davidsonian/Friday, April 1, 1983

R.E.M. Meets the Beat
By ANDREW WILSON

The English Beat and R.E.M. are as musically distant as Chapel Hill is from Duke—a hop, skip, and a beat
away. The Beat, a British two-tone ska band, meshed with the uncategorizable, almost mystical sound of the Athens, Ga.-based R.E.M.
to perform an enthralling three-hour concert at Chapel Hill’s intimate Memorial Hall last Sunday evening. No one was disappointed, least
of all the bands. Enthusiasm reigned supreme, especially during the Beat’s performance. The stage energy could be measured in kilowatts.
Ranking Roger, the hyperactive vocal toaster and incidental percussionist, truly exuded Beat happiness. Dave Wakeling on vocals and guitar, and
Saxa, who provides the ranting sax riffs which make Beat music unmistakable, carried the show with their smiles (a rare
thing at a rock concert). Smiling, jittering, jabbering, and generally jamming are the Beat’s trademarks along with a full and
varied sound. Their brand of ska wavers between new wave reggae and big-band funk (if you can imagine such things).
Their message, often overlooked or veiled by especially catchy cockney, is both neo-romantic and socio-politically pessimistic (no, the two are
not mutually exclusive). The Beat’s best trait by far, however, is telling a sad story happily. Their version of Smokey
Robinson’s “Tears of a Clown” is a case in point. At other times, and the best of times, they combine
reggae-like spiritualism and new wave non-sensibility, as in “Spar Wid Me” (“Spar wid me / cho Lord a man should
always feel free / Because de rat he get a bend up by de cat”) or “Jeanette” (“When I met
Jeanette, / substitute Ronette, she said, ‘Will you remember?’ / I said I could never forget her au naturalette’’). What
is truly impressive about the Beat is the way they excite themselves and their audience to a fever pitch while
maintaining professionalism and sound quality commensurate with their fine recordings. R.E.M needs no comment (since most who weren’t watching MTV
or writing term papers know them from their visit last term).

U2 Juggles Passion, Top 10
By JOHNNY EDWARDS

U2 is the sort of band that seemed destined to come out of violence-ridden Ireland: tense and passionate, with an
edge as sharp as that of the prominent English bands. Their music has not changed dramatically since their career began;
it is the subject matter of that music which has changed, and that subject matter makes War their best album.
As noted by many reviews of October (their second album), U2 verged on being a musically trivial band, because their
lyrics concerned consistently superficial subjects. It looked as though U2 would waste their uniquely triumphant sound; they lacked purpose. Even
their concerts tended to suffer because of a suspected over-satisfaction with stardom. U2 has apparently taken this criticism to heart
and turned out the album everyone expected of them. War focuses on the horrors of violence, avoiding politics for the
most part and focusing on the sheer emotional aspects of violence, death, and love, creating an album with which any
listener can identify. Who can argue against the horrible effects of violence? As always, U2 shows their belief that the
passion of love makes life worthwhile. However, it takes the contrast of this love with the scenes of violence on
War to give this idea substance. Where before the view seemed dangerously close to juvenile, it now takes on maturity
gained through the inclusion of real-world violence. This maturity, fused with the ferocity of their music, makes one feel almost
elitist trying to criticize the lyrical content for a lack of sophistication. The band makes no drastic musical changes in
War. The music still weaves sparse, seemingly simplistic instrumentation through the band’s tightness and excellent production. The Edge still uses
harmonies, echo, and open chords to grand effect; Adam Clayton anchors the band while Larry Mullen creates complex rhythms; and
Bono continues on his way to becoming an interpretive singer in the class of Roger Daltrey, with whom he shares
incredible voice control and an ability to improvise without losing himself in the music. U2 is going places with War,
namely into the top ten if the WROQ.except that Michael Stipe was at his innocently contorted best. The lyrics remained
a mystery (probably on purpose), but they performed some fine new songs and generated a lot of goodwill. What more
can you ask for? Their first album seemed perfect for the hard rock multitudes, but U2 has a difference. They
have the ability characteristic of great bands to walk the edge between passion and banality without slipping. It is a
thin line.

Carrasco Revives Garage Band Spirit
By JONATHAN GLANCE

American rock and roll in the mid-sixties was in a confused state — the rebellion of the fifties (Elvis and
the Killer) was gone, the rebellion and cosmic consciousness of the Psychedelic movement had not yet arrived, and pop was
thrown upon the happy shores of the Venture’s brand of democracy. Every garage in every town spawned a band, and
while the results were often abysmal, there were some groups which had their one hit before they disappeared. In pre-Beatlemania
days, you didn’t have to be really talented to be great; all you needed was the spirit of adolescent amateurism
and a sense of humor. In a time where the Kingsmen, ? and the Mysterians, and Sam the Sham and
the Pharaohs could all hit upon instant classics through some quirk of blind luck (their songs were, respectively, “Louie, Louie,”
“96 Tears,” and “Woolie Bullie”), it was possible for any band to hope for a hit. The exuberance and sheer
joy of this more innocent age has left its mark on one of the coolest bands from Austin, Texas —
Joe “King” Carrasco and the Crowns. His latest LP, aptly entitled Party Weekend, aims for the true garage band spirit.

The quintessential Carrasco sound is based on the cheesy Tex-Mex Farfisa organ of Kris Cummings, who’s appeared on all four
albums Carrasco and the Crowns have released. Add a snappy bass and drum and intermittent guitar strums and licks, and
you’ve got the sound of a boss bar band that twists and jumps with the best. The best part of
the whole package, though, is Joe’s voice, that comes across as that of a natural-born rube who wants to have
a “goood tahm” and who hiply hints at dark secrets of the psyche (Buddy Holly on peyote buttons?). The paradox
of naivete and wildness adds some tension and heat to the party, but not enough to disrupt the dancers. Carrasco
has been quoted as saying that his major influence was the theme song from The Munsters, and that “96 Tears”
was the most perfect song ever written — what else do you need to say?

Party Weekend is a more solid LP than their last one (Synapse Gap), but is perhaps moving towards a more
polished sound than previous records. While there are still plenty of the frenetic rockers which the band does best, generally
either based on The Sir Douglas Quintet’s “She’s About a Mover” or ? and The Mysterians, there are some slower
numbers as well. These moodier songs are more Mexican than Texan in sound (e.g. the remake of “Buena” from an
earlier album), and there’s even a couple of calypso/reggae songs to extend the tropical American tone. This album does have
a problem in that it is perhaps a bit over-produced; I personally favor the rougher sound of his earlier LPs,
such as Party Safari. At times the new sound loses some of the essential force and power that the band
displays in concert, which is a shame. With the resurgence in garage bands today, it would seem that the “sweetened”
mix, with extra percussion and even an occasional synthesizer (!) would not be needed to get airplay for the band.
Outside of this minor complaint, though, I would highly recommend this album as an addition to anyone’s record collection. With
summer coming up, you know, you're going to need some albums like this one to listen to while you’re frying
in the sun or driving around with all the windows down. On second thought, maybe you'd better get the tape
instead of the LP. In the spirit of all truly great “trash rock,” Party Weekend is music to have fun
by.
