The Ovidsonian/Frideagh the 13

OPINION

A Statement Against Dialogue
Keif Nihil

Consider the liberal arts tradition. We revere it as a great historic march forward of ideas, a synthesis of creativity
and experience from the multi-faceted mind of humanity. It guides us, so I am told, through the tortuous perils of
the modern day, giving to its masters the power of clear-thinking, decision-making and, ultimately, a comfortable yearly income. But there
is something wrong here, which I discovered as I was rethinking the cultural history of civilized man the other day.
Despite our much-touted tradition of liberal arts, the human race is still in quite a mess — hunger, nuclear weapons,
acid rain, and self-selection are still very real and pressing global problems. Therefore I ask what has four millennia of
willy-nilly intellectual growth gotten us? The answer: nothing. And why? Because of dialogue.

Dialogue confounds me. It is one of those things we use in our daily lives every day. I talk —
you talk — I talk — you talk — I talk — I talk — I talk. Great people throughout
history have engaged in dialogue, like Jesus and Alexander the Great. Shakespeare used it in most of his plays. Dialogue
has always been with us. I wonder why. Dialogue confounds me. I must submit that dialogue cannot be taken for
granted as a good thing. I contend that it has not necessarily helped mankind’s progress at all, and may even
at times be a bad thing. I say this because I have noticed at Davidson that dialogue seldom accomplishes anything.
It is bad enough that so many people have so many subjective beliefs and meaningless opinions, but even worse that
I have to interrupt what I am saying to listen to them. Is this right? Is this Justice? Is this
Truth?

We have been taught to assume that dialogue has pragmatic socioeconomic applications that transcend cultural boundaries and that therefore nations
should maintain open dialogue with other nations. In reality, dialogue is a very Western culture-bound concept, dating back to the
ancient Greeks. I refer your attention to one of Plato’s Dialogues, in which, I believe, the whole idea got started:

Phaedrus: I’ll tell you, if you can spare time to come along and listen.
Socrates: What?...
Phaedrus: Lead on then.
Socrates: Please tell me.
(“Phaedrus,” p. 476 of the Humanities edition)

In pointing out the pretentious Western bias of dialogue as a basic social medium, I am moved to question the
legitimacy and fairness of assuming that what was good for the ancient Greeks is necessarily good for us and the
whole world. Do we ever wonder, for example, when we are tourists at the United Nations if Western civilization has
imposed dialogue on the rest of the world? Do we ever consider that there may be alternatives? In Zen Buddhism,
people just meditate and act. The Soviet Union is another case in point. Dialogue is used very little in that
culture, and yet the Soviets are one of the most powerful nations on earth. Perhaps the idealistic cultural imperialism of
the West is even responsible for the tensions that exist between the United States and that country.

I needn’t belabor the point. I think Kierkegaard hints at this in Fear and Trembling, but I don’t know where.
I didn’t read the whole thing. There should not be “an answer.” It is a loaded question. Dialogue still confounds
me. I wonder if even at Davidson we talk to each other too much. I have certainly experienced this myself
in Humanities. Dialogue confounds me.

Keif Nihil is a sophomore.

(Continued from page 4)

...they disagree with the prevailing ideology. Al contends that a government which does not have to resort to torturing indiscriminately
is a good government. Even the most oppressive regimes have incorporated human rights into their national constitutions. In most cases,
then, Al is simply holding governments to their public promises. This declaration, along with the more detailed International Covenants on
Civil and Political Rights, guarantees basic human rights to all citizens. Most countries have signed these agreements. Who gives us
human rights? Rights do not exist “out there” in any objective sense; we create them and our consensus makes them
real. Our reasons for creating rights generally include a recognition that the world is populated by sentient and rational individuals
who feel, think, dream, love, and plan. So we decide that human institutions should not treat such beings in certain
ways. For example, we decide it is wrong for any institution to systematically and deliberately inflict pain on people, or
to imprison and kill people simply because they disagree with the prevailing ideology. Al contends that a government which does
not have to resort to torturing indiscriminately is a good government. Even the most oppressive regimes have incorporated human rights
into their national constitutions. In most cases, then, Al is simply holding governments to their public promises. This declaration, along
with the more detailed International Covenants on Civil and Political Rights, guarantees basic human rights to all citizens. Most countries
have signed these agreements. Who gives us human rights? Rights do not exist “out there” in any objective sense; we
create them and our consensus makes them real. Our reasons for creating rights generally include a recognition that the world
is populated by sentient and rational individuals who feel, think, dream, love, and plan. So we decide that human institutions
should not treat such beings in certain ways. For example, we decide it is wrong for any institution to systematically
and deliberately inflict pain on people, or to imprison and kill people simply because they disagree with the prevailing ideology.
Al contends that a government which does not have to resort to torturing indiscriminately is a good government. Even the
most oppressive regimes have incorporated human rights into their national constitutions. In most cases, then, Al is simply holding governments
to their public promises. This declaration, along with the more detailed International Covenants on Civil and Political Rights, guarantees basic
human rights to all citizens. Most countries have signed these agreements. Who gives us human rights? Rights do not exist
“out there” in any objective sense; we create them and our consensus makes them real. Our reasons for creating rights
generally include a recognition that the world is populated by sentient and rational individuals who feel, think, dream, love, and
plan. So we decide that human institutions should not treat such beings in certain ways. For example, we decide it
is wrong for any institution to systematically and deliberately inflict pain on people, or to imprison and kill people simply
because they disagree with the prevailing ideology. Al contends that a government which does not have to resort to torturing
indiscriminately is a good government. Even the most oppressive regimes have incorporated human rights into their national constitutions. In most
cases, then, Al is simply holding governments to their public promises. This declaration, along with the more detailed International Covenants
on Civil and Political Rights, guarantees basic human rights to all citizens. Most countries have signed these agreements. Who gives
us human rights? Rights do not exist “out there” in any objective sense; we create them and our consensus makes
them real. Our reasons for creating rights generally include a recognition that the world is populated by sentient and rational
individuals who feel, think, dream, love, and plan. So we decide that human institutions should not treat such beings in
certain ways. For example, we decide it is wrong for any institution to systematically and deliberately inflict pain on people,
or to imprison and kill people simply because they disagree with the prevailing ideology. Al contends that a government which
does not have to resort to torturing indiscriminately is a good government. Even the most oppressive regimes have incorporated human
rights into their national constitutions. In most cases, then, Al is simply holding governments to their public promises. This declaration,
along with the more detailed International Covenants on Civil and Political Rights, guarantees basic human rights to all citizens. Most
countries have signed these agreements. Who gives us human rights? Rights do not exist “out there” in any objective sense;
we create them and our consensus makes them real. Our reasons for creating rights generally include a recognition that the
world is populated by sentient and rational individuals who feel, think, dream, love, and plan. So we decide that human
institutions should not treat such beings in certain ways. For example, we decide it is wrong for any institution to
systematically and deliberately inflict pain on people, or to imprison and kill people simply because they disagree with the prevailing
ideology. Al contends that a government which does not have to resort to torturing indiscriminately is a good government. Even
the most oppressive regimes have incorporated human rights into their national constitutions. In most cases, then, Al is simply holding
governments to their public promises. This declaration, along with the more detailed International Covenants on Civil and Political Rights, guarantees
basic human rights to all citizens. Most countries have signed these agreements. Who gives us human rights? Rights do not
exist “out there” in any objective sense; we create them and our consensus makes them real. Our reasons for creating
rights generally include a recognition that the world is populated by sentient and rational individuals who feel, think, dream, love,
and plan. So we decide that human institutions should not treat such beings in certain ways. For example, we decide
it is wrong for any institution to systematically and deliberately inflict pain on people, or to imprison and kill people
simply because they disagree with the prevailing ideology. Al contends that a government which does not have to resort to
torturing indiscriminately is a good government. Even the most oppressive regimes have incorporated human rights into their national constitutions. In
most cases, then, Al is simply holding governments to their public promises. This declaration, along with the more detailed International
Covenants on Civil and Political Rights, guarantees basic human rights to all citizens. Most countries have signed these agreements. Who
gives us human rights? Rights do not exist “out there” in any objective sense; we create them and our consensus
makes them real. Our reasons for creating rights generally include a recognition that the world is populated by sentient and
rational individuals who feel, think, dream, love, and plan. So we decide that human institutions should not treat such beings
in certain ways. For example, we decide it is wrong for any institution to systematically and deliberately inflict pain on
people, or to imprison and kill people simply because they disagree with the prevailing ideology. Al contends that a government
which does not have to resort to torturing indiscriminately is a good government. Even the most oppressive regimes have incorporated
human rights into their national constitutions. In most cases, then, Al is simply holding governments to their public promises. This
declaration, along with the more detailed International Covenants on Civil and Political Rights, guarantees basic human rights to all citizens.
Most countries have signed these agreements. Who gives us human rights? Rights do not exist “out there” in any objective
sense; we create them and our consensus makes them real. Our reasons for creating rights generally include a recognition that
the world is populated by sentient and rational individuals who feel, think, dream, love, and plan. So we decide that
human institutions should not treat such beings in certain ways. For example, we decide it is wrong for any institution
to systematically and deliberately inflict pain on people, or to imprison and kill people simply because they disagree with the
prevailing ideology. Al contends that a government which does not have to resort to torturing indiscriminately is a good government.
Even the most oppressive regimes have incorporated human rights into their national constitutions. In most cases, then, Al is simply
holding governments to their public promises. This declaration, along with the more detailed International Covenants on Civil and Political Rights,
guarantees basic human rights to all citizens. Most countries have signed these agreements. Who gives us human rights? Rights do
not exist “out there” in any objective sense; we create them and our consensus makes them real. Our reasons for
creating rights generally include a recognition that the world is populated by sentient and rational individuals who feel, think, dream,
love, and plan. So we decide that human institutions should not treat such beings in certain ways. For example, we
decide it is wrong for any institution to systematically and deliberately inflict pain on people, or to imprison and kill
people simply because they disagree with the prevailing ideology. Al contends that a government which does not have to resort
to torturing indiscriminately is a good government. Even the most oppressive regimes have incorporated human rights into their national constitutions.
In most cases, then, Al is simply holding governments to their public promises. This declaration, along with the more detailed
International Covenants on Civil and Political Rights, guarantees basic human rights to all citizens. Most countries have signed these agreements.
Who gives us human rights? Rights do not exist “out there” in any objective sense; we create them and our
consensus makes them real. Our reasons for creating rights generally include a recognition that the world is populated by sentient
and rational individuals who feel, think, dream, love, and plan. So we decide that human institutions should not treat such
beings in certain ways. For example, we decide it is wrong for any institution to systematically and deliberately inflict pain
on people, or to imprison and kill people simply because they disagree with the prevailing ideology. Al contends that a
government which does not have to resort to torturing indiscriminately is a good government. Even the most oppressive regimes have
incorporated human rights into their national constitutions. In most cases, then, Al is simply holding governments to their public promises.
This declaration, along with the more detailed International Covenants on Civil and Political Rights, guarantees basic human rights to all
citizens. Most countries have signed these agreements. Who gives us human rights? Rights do not exist “out there” in any
objective sense; we create them and our consensus makes them real. Our reasons for creating rights generally include a recognition
that the world is populated by sentient and rational individuals who feel, think, dream, love, and plan. So we decide
that human institutions should not treat such beings in certain ways. For example, we decide it is wrong for any
institution to systematically and deliberately inflict pain on people, or to imprison and kill people simply because they disagree with
the prevailing ideology. Al contends that a government which does not have to resort to torturing indiscriminately is a good
government. Even the most oppressive regimes have incorporated human rights into their national constitutions. In most cases, then, Al is
simply holding governments to their public promises. This declaration, along with the more detailed International Covenants on Civil and Political
Rights, guarantees basic human rights to all citizens. Most countries have signed these agreements. Who gives us human rights? Rights
do not exist “out there” in any objective sense; we create them and our consensus makes them real. Our reasons
for creating rights generally include a recognition that the world is populated by sentient and rational individuals who feel, think,
dream, love, and plan. So we decide that human institutions should not treat such beings in certain ways. For example,
we decide it is wrong for any institution to systematically and deliberately inflict pain on people, or to imprison and
kill people simply because they disagree with the prevailing ideology. Al contends that a government which does not have to
resort to torturing indiscriminately is a good government. Even the most oppressive regimes have incorporated human rights into their national
constitutions. In most cases, then, Al is simply holding governments to their public promises. This declaration, along with the more
detailed International Covenants on Civil and Political Rights, guarantees basic human rights to all citizens. Most countries have signed these
agreements. Who gives us human rights? Rights do not exist “out there” in any objective sense; we create them and
our consensus makes them real. Our reasons for creating rights generally include a recognition that the world is populated by
sentient and rational individuals who feel, think, dream, love, and plan. So we decide that human institutions should not treat
such beings in certain ways. For example, we decide it is wrong for any institution to systematically and deliberately inflict
pain on people, or to imprison and kill people simply because they disagree with the prevailing ideology. Al contends that
a government which does not have to resort to torturing indiscriminately is a good government. Even the most oppressive regimes
have incorporated human rights into their national constitutions. In most cases, then, Al is simply holding governments to their public
promises. This declaration, along with the more detailed International Covenants on Civil and Political Rights, guarantees basic human rights to
all citizens. Most countries have signed these agreements. Who gives us human rights? Rights do not exist “out there” in
any objective sense; we create them and our consensus makes them real. Our reasons for creating rights generally include a
recognition that the world is populated by sentient and rational individuals who feel, think, dream, love, and plan. So we
decide that human institutions should not treat such beings in certain ways. For example, we decide it is wrong for
any institution to systematically and deliberately inflict pain on people, or to imprison and kill people simply because they disagree
with the prevailing ideology. Al contends that a government which does not have to resort to torturing indiscriminately is a
good government. Even the most oppressive regimes have incorporated human rights into their national constitutions. In most cases, then, Al
is simply holding governments to their public promises. This declaration, along with the more detailed International Covenants on Civil and
Political Rights, guarantees basic human rights to all citizens. Most countries have signed these agreements. Who gives us human rights?
Rights do not exist “out there” in any objective sense; we create them and our consensus makes them real. Our
reasons for creating rights generally include a recognition that the world is populated by sentient and rational individuals who feel,
think, dream, love, and plan. So we decide that human institutions should not treat such beings in certain ways. For
example, we decide it is wrong for any institution to systematically and deliberately inflict pain on people, or to imprison
and kill people simply because they disagree with the prevailing ideology. Al contends that a government which does not have
to resort to torturing indiscriminately is a good government. Even the most oppressive regimes have incorporated human rights into their
national constitutions. In most cases, then, Al is simply holding governments to their public promises. This declaration, along with the
more detailed International Covenants on Civil and Political Rights, guarantees basic human rights to all citizens. Most countries have signed
these agreements. Who gives us human rights? Rights do not exist “out there” in any objective sense; we create them
and our consensus makes them real. Our reasons for creating rights generally include a recognition that the world is populated
by sentient and rational individuals who feel, think, dream, love, and plan. So we decide that human institutions should not
treat such beings in certain ways. For example, we decide it is wrong for any institution to systematically and deliberately
inflict pain on people, or to imprison and kill people simply because they disagree with the prevailing ideology. Al contends
that a government which does not have to resort to torturing indiscriminately is a good government. Even the most oppressive
regimes have incorporated human rights into their national constitutions. In most cases, then, Al is simply holding governments to their
public promises. This declaration, along with the more detailed International Covenants on Civil and Political Rights, guarantees basic human rights
to all citizens. Most countries have signed these agreements. Who gives us human rights? Rights do not exist “out there”
in any objective sense; we create them and our consensus makes them real. Our reasons for creating rights generally include
a recognition that the world is populated by sentient and rational individuals who feel, think, dream, love, and plan. So
we decide that human institutions shouldHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

i pace? byypocobpreny Ineuyiecaiou: pyow cau our bua Ip yy prs peruse VI1L2 Gyms. sug byiozobp?” 6676)).¢ CouCE UUs apONE
yy] COUIGL OU LO 177s BIL ps oplese 10 (p6 votiay oF Reon pre WEG WEE ECLA? poUs t AAe
a 6jcous Ips ObbOUNUHZ 10.96 16Uq ONL 1WIGELIE7 _ 10 67 od ce nh iive Hiaso eviliiesbt deity nonicoq asnentiy
leoteculs ot qu cgand Hood viqiiuss- inves 1. booy sommes aft oF csludnines sunol th aidgn sidulorsn on yaud eleubivibai
nonieo cid eO .booy ieoueny baw. yolesbi baw swilus wlysineg 6 Vo ¢ruborq sau cidgn aumud ded 71 nOts{do Laos
7 Iho beitieni 71 A ted cotluseqe Novel meilensqm livigolosbr 41 alive vbowbhow 6 ono aidgyn nerd to cavovbe sono
bana sd noqeni or nweessen od Idgien i wibodie) 2i dove sauiluy edions ai Ayo a oF dyin aged vol
yalae notts{do basse ot Or baogen Mia 1 wibodme) om” invateds Ieviilog swraute lero. -egolondust — come chitusineg zaW od
neh inilineqay “hawilus v0 “levigolosbi" catutienos drow VA tid) vipwds oT ieiil “nw not oniod ai don VA bao? lnwilus-ccons
ci qidasdmem (VA ard anuos adi no sell i Ae J odt aumud lenonemsini dita giqmnoy oF med) sg woony
Of ud coniauOs Torte no Ady aumud to caonoR wilhinl suinonsy baw Quilicn sadw bhow & lo trsinos odie .budl
\ongie NgilWvivant oi duke singmanye cdg to swoq sdt gino goiblyiw nonesiquyyo tusiilog uci Ow 1A escoqug “oietlaneqmin iol vlibb
boew or not At seo .cotiauos Lb ni cnoitoe lenonun cud TA metinsqiu to bdel daud oft exmeesb bnud aoiniqo
vilduq nom Tse carole omen oF wirayiM baw 0A .unwdD .deobelyaud 6 dove . esti mooW -non crue dbus caninuos
FR aedeom 1A sviton an nod) baw query geonmA seed ACU odt bag tid) ynibuloni .-virinues yansvo) 000,258 to qidasdoam
1A nidtiw Ginonia vail a csenqmos noite 2 U odd edineen OO0FL AW qumud Iknonimein diva viqetos oF mod) syswesns
OF ud cotinuers Tedto no Adyn numud bo cnoion wilt viens. bag nutilin nodw bhow «lo treings sdbai bd Mowe
AysilWi i coli dove anvennye edgy fo wwoq sdl vino gaibloiw nois\inugy levitilog bea ow 1A .eseoqug “oiteilensqmi” wl dink
beeu c1 not oni seo cyninwos 1b ni cnotiae lunoiien cod FA omeilanaqin to lodul dad ot coroeob cli noiniqo
silduq nom aati ole omen oF 6sgi baw wn0A .waudO .devbulgacd cu douse .corinues moieoW-non num sbuls coinvos bb ini
Asda TA a vitae ns nod baw cquory aesnmA veud AZ od baw lid) gmibuloni.esninues yainyve’) 000.208 loqidasdmem ¢ 1A
nidiiw inodin ail 6 esenqmos noite .2.U ods avd 000.61 diwW no singe He (adi ud ogtyivoe Iesbi od lo
enotry ganetib ved asd 1A cmintssge levitilog bau Liwilus ot “BITEIN NO NOINIcOg Ali eseud LA .qidaydenomn | sin nw
gnived oF noiibbe al cidgn numiud to qoumning ot od bhow yd worguendl nose oO} 9d Hide” tayido ¢ notesingyo
oA ot cotute stu? TA od einige bun od diw ynols .noitietob cid" adgiAtismuH to soils lanseinU oft Fo morrenq
att to soMuereedo o> Lense He of aidge qemud viecd suiquneuy .cidyi 8 levitilod baw tivi no cinuny70D lnnotemyial boligtb
aon ‘. ” ty+ Wi ted eyiglusaqe Hove “neilinaqan Ibori” i vitae sbowbhow 1 no adn quid to Cuyoebs yond
Latin of neg or niceyran od bgten tt wibodn’) ai tous autlus radton ni how” oF dyn nsenud vol le
fowrsido bao ot ot baogen Iliw 1 wibodenu:’) on "vate lesitilog nuraue Wutvoe -cgolondset — conse. chetusinug AcoW od ment
cacilunaqau “hawt” 1 “lesigolosbi" eaiunienos dow 2A wd vywds oT il say saobonion Ado VA bread lewilus ecors i qidaadein
VA aid inues radi no slid i A 2 ot vorsenuad ayduus puoag saunsaw 24122909 01 2UAOSII INO Tw 143Y..
Ty Ng “SpulU pur sURsy *, 2}d09d Jo JouN)BI}{R Dy) Joy Bug B BUNYBY 8) Jy *)}2A2y Iq] “WISH RUDd
Ut [RaBopoapr s2onJNAd jy wey) KLUYE}> OF Radda yowUND dy *s20p 3y yt ING SaTRNIP AmU |Janoy ‘A19190% suMUUNY d
dv 51 soy ys Unuuny 409 199ds9y “1YBNO) UI0q BABY x2]10Eq LY s7yR DARY safe yo P YI 30) aH
1 91U 81 Iya 29RD IY) UO uI>} [RIN JOdOII0s w -YSNOYLIYR UR IOUS! sIYTLE URLUAY 40) 1990534 EYP “POY
LY “W3ISIP OF NIYJIP s} sxasaud YSnoyy}' dda sums anissauddo ays yo fomnip 1 Yim WssquRUWOS ders-puD PsEAOI SuLAOW 2q
OF sUNVE{D [)IEs * 9dUEXd 30) WSS PUL ‘pouinbau aun «aun vous aaiwsasddo iB Hey) OS yd Asan @ 2g
01 spuan Ku|iqers po2s0) pur “psu ® on uem -ma704 CAilwod Bei za0q ni (ete OF lao at caNiti2 hil
2uo9 NO sonutOrs bau YETI ynitoifind of Neen oF sud ton 44 2d 7 sutey hiner stuenitly ot es booy
nonin oft siuluteoq WicKs ou ul m6 ano tell crade Hava wean lenoiten Vo saqcasinise Tevstudw ob oF siduiliten| comoved
1 Jno Innotien diiw boog nomines ot yauuups o qbatunvenyseibat gonuno bay A2inyecib ynitusess baw yainiwiob eybulont cds duced cmiupy
aise cyorsd neriud ths tnd) sven vo aus HOH nonioiany be sidqoeolidq ¢dsul WTbdd -bavety vill ng adtyin niece 6A
Solqmi7 sol banunot ad oF tod idyn ot — yinlor ous Insmnimsdoy of doidw aidgn mucniann anys yd ad) cu
oily letooe Uatae eottinabe dandy nonioq aueunliw lysiceils odd qu eyand Maso vlqeiesy vainue, " bawry nornines adtor oiudinings aunt
aidyn vidulovent on svud Auubivibar nonicog aid nO booy ttiony baw. 7yolovbs bag awilus wlusineq 6 lo etoubenq sw Aidgn
quod jedi a1 nonsatde bags ¢ oe buitieuy c wajqoud ay) jo Buipursuapun onu) & sO2A2ud JUdIUOD jRUOIOWD 1 wayy
UO} ddo yo wi2;qoud ay) 8 sQy .. Amumyo.. | iT situsod Ajpasoddns siyy quaiu0s | 2 1 Bupanas sauinbay
wayqoud & Surpumsuaspun pry mata 24) ploy oF Kouapuay Buouys Hm vt ayy saddu9 jrUOn YUL2 PUR SIINPR pPNIDI}}21U} BuUIWOIIG
YKU 2M ZX1MUIZyIO “VOURINPS sno yo URd F 3g OF YTNO BULdIINS GoYO » stowy ay) JO VOINUBOIIU FRY) MURS
J “| RU2AIUN du 2834) — S2UO PrAo| Jo 2zNO! JO YROP ay) jo “IYdIU 9y) UL BOUL pqs yo
‘purw s avo Buyymads yo ib ayy JO “yuaMaundysip wouRUad yO sRdy 9y) “YOOYS 3119913 pur 412g jo ured ay]
“20U Op sey pur UI uNI]Nd Oy 28NyjND WOIy JURY. YoId!|au PUT sNIYINY , San{RA Wapurdap JRNURSUUN IID, Woody S2sLR
SIYBL URUIAY 40) WIZdSVO HYD UDdUIIMS 6 |]2AIYy YIM Inest Susy aM | *AYPRULY J2sw1y Pury Pynom ay Yyotym UF
AuRdusod ay) 341) PjNOM {]2AIy uNs dou LW | YBNOY]|e — puMIx Aulsoddo ue 29m Iyaauoy auow Yyonws x1 1p
purrs ulM2> F BuNyR) uIRBR jUsWNAUR [Nyrdu0y FOU M1 SIALMUUAIR yO 2dUaKaud JyI 10 Sunuiog ‘Op oF sumadde ay sw
2ou24 24) Buipu Xq jy 01 D2[go ApwnonuaidsUOd jouUED [jIArYy sKaUIINY 1)" UT anit te oF adgn quid sized sinus
dyed iene ban 14 ne -inwas 70 lnnonemestal bylerl voc al -nonutiienos lunonua ied) om eyoiniuy Wed) boleqosn bag cinumu2ob
vod bangle a cud coninues iol sae Lesitilog on caine on end TA eoerineng vilduq wodi ol inane coy yaiblod
clams lA odd eoeiy ior ulowan a cobie on eydu) baw coin a ricenqqo lo wondineco oft oie sobs ton
esob He uols saves on eno av alaiilto an lovolos aids odie bass syolosbi odie seed daseny soy aye Wade
wond IE esuqeib “uno shaq cu enoiniqe tied eenqys alqinie asda tA aices cid i Word oA enoniig ai yanenicin
to oiduqus ben manhien te terse od of bneqiies WH eesny salle sitios seed conn eaoiniqo veodl qty ainlumiu cis
diva been equory Wirne Yo Ao aten VA ducoqeib wedi iis cud ainsi soy ¢ bho sd iudd digas suinonos,
Aol Anwess Cilanaqen taviilog bre hawilus boniwinien cuba 1A bebe gaug cries vaquq baw. 1x o7bs adgn nuciud vediod a
lo nonesup radio «Maro ends cid we nonusingyyo aidgn musiud ua ailidibar san bene ado fa aA ne errs tonob
aidyid Cadyn quciud cu cari od dll tite builiieuy et cans on iud) noinnyoua 6 ybulon Mioesy Ady ynies vol
nose WO lian fied) es dui vuensones wo ban Hid sod nul baw .y7ol baw .niab baw. dod baw dust
oda cwabs zibe lino baw tnviinee 7d batuluqod a blie Tol ynen a an obiveb ya slqiney sO ecw nian
i eyo dove tit ton bluode enouutiens auciud ted) sbi ab ban noenqi of gneta ai sbiayb ye siqoug no
nq diliai donadileb baw hese 77 OF noice co. 7200 dod a tases coy 6 ads ebavings 1A cyolesbi yatta
cng od dia rye cadd sean sed cgi viquag thd myroy (Abode ely aod nt gale oF lio nt ensuites
lilssesq 90 sonvlors baw rons) gotta ol noes oly cud bon OpZCLANUCE UO IPG bUO2171007 OF IPS (\UIZ6UT) DEC OU
OF oUTU BInpIe Lyte qecumumieu: myouk up (pe Hout SRULcweuls EL p6 WE arsine -ImG? Ip ips OLENA IOU 7
Oplecd 7pm) pe lO 26Cnis (pUDnR pond (pe oud Ibe pe buwsee? of paws Ubpie ju sqquiou fo pr iuk
my tuicuuOuT) WeupeLpib: yy pices 7 bosiiou ou ruieu't (pe Cryin aq bopneny) -beciunu yy Uepels p76 QIGUUR 2 itOus
OF Ips Iqeny] coc.” pat ipes ty thus ou ANE E000 WEWIpeLIpe CQ) 2) 266H0N CoMbU Zz. 9 HU7 WOLIZ
ApIU ypc euperpib OF 452000 C.076U0K conuiues weynquk Cpe tu ips (eek pee yinuee? RBuonbe mug (pou 9 ICL 6
Vy EeUpeLs ty | gq CONUILGs C)N96 WIT? DOU _Ao7iGL ConuIUE?: cacy ae QoUisqe7y: GQymud: oun ug YInGuG te UNE
Gap YGGU OKs, [knovne to soaunsinieen a eotuda Ob of slduilieut omnis 1 inwase lenotiun dina booy nomminoy ofl yaLups
oF cloigniniacibar yanunoe) baw asin ib yaiusysy baw yond eobulon adi decent cniupor cw oye ab dw Gnu lenoiee youu
pl (cabot caaitoiiq nonunion dada to Mod) Avinueab yaiteaqeorq vib an. Anse enon Sbawwessen gated 4 booy yeod Wo coouqiiuers
lo qual vidutybizng si rol ilny boey omunes Aen ad baw a9 4oq At ycod lo ansin sda aatto ion
4) op enn 9fl to none cesIg be venee nominal Aneuein al ed benogque nowuloran 6 age boo nomi ofl
Ana sbrnios Cnieesaa0 ton ob luli woq adi lo nonicoqque vib OF booy Honing eng 2A lo Gabi auntie Giant
lide Hoe ainiase banaue erates bu Wud inate de bavorn Innvders swine Aw ¥eudt Wo Mod jdt yore Idyien vee
out Edges coduen idee deel adie ste sntiivo be ba aval yorwqumrsdivnl au tye ton Dluods cid nes etdyanumiud ae
Loew ete 77 Zee pre LLoyd eOWUuGOUG Lo COUAIqGLIpG PUY Unis i7ene Tuga Couciiut dine oul ie ding Wa poo
a uAOUN YyOLTy pubeUNii WU pet ney 6 \yueyromn ype acu, bienecd ipo ont buezeuers ou crusbae pie LPO D9
qu cpabie. of yusue-7 purewunionsy tbbue eed KOUP BE. OI ¢POORPIA Cynon spunuects pute 8? EPISVBELH Kl22 424 dy) 40
JUO0 Ju OApeH pur “way? dur wdwwos woyy sn udAaud JOU Pynoys sy fp (URS s1y3u URUNY UO Paxng Wa7shs
mse PEN! SULdIKA® pRIOLY PUIIIYOS 311 C7 ACAD ptiecg Ou prune UnyIs Cau [pte eponyq uot bens cur ne plow
CombouUk yeu suq nqeoemiUk ove on (pe wut mihpe wine? UBpE pune ous I RpL LRA (pl poly
