THE DAVIDSONIAN

No Student Evaluation Forms this Term

By JEFFREY MANN

Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann announced this week that he and College
President Sam Spencer had decided not to accept the prose form for faculty evaluation proposed by the faculty Professional Affairs
Committee (PAC). Zimmermann said it is unlikely that any official evaluation would be done this term.

The PAC withdrew its form from consideration at the faculty meeting last Tuesday. The faculty voted last term to drop
the ICES evaluation forms, which use rating scales and checkoffs, in favor of prose forms. The proposed form asked students
to write out their opinions about a course instead of marking opinions on a one to five scale. No alternate
form was ready for last term, so professors could voluntarily opt to use the ICES forms, which had already been
ordered. Zimmermann said that though over half the faculty picked up the forms, about twenty turned the completed forms into
his office.

In a letter to PAC Chairman Professor Alexander McKelway, Zimmermann said that he and Spencer felt that although “the proposed
questionnaire may well be a help to the individual instructor... we do not feel that it will be of sufficient
value as an instrument of faculty evaluation to warrant the time and extra assistance which would be necessary to process
and read approximately 3000 individual forms for each term.”

McKelway said that his committee would be “sitting down with the Dean to see what ideas he has... We're a
little puzzled that he voiced his objections at this juncture. We thought that either side would accept what the faculty
decided. Apparently, we were mistaken.”

“We want a system which will speak to student opinion as to the quality of teaching in a form which
is usable,” Zimmermann said. He hopes that the Administration and the PAC will “work together, with the possible help and
support of student representatives on a workable instrument of faculty evaluation.” McKelway said that “student opinion will be heard, though
I don’t know in what way.” He pointed out that the PAC had met with the SGA representatives in developing
the proposed prose form.

The Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedure says that “students are in an especially favorable position to assess the instructor’s enthusiasm
for the subject, concern for them, and clarity in presentation... ascertained by means of interviews, letters, evaluation forms, or other
methods.” Zimmermann said he is relying on ICES forms from past years and student interviews. “Student input will be reduced,”
he said. He still interviews five students during tenure reviews, but he points out that these interviews are far less
comprehensive than a more general evaluation system.

Warren Gould, Be adsie Woo, and Hunter Monroe at Monday’s open forum

PCSC Begins New Poll

By DAN VOORHIS

The Patterson Court Study Committee is working on a generalizable and representative assessment of student opinion toward the self-selection system.
The committee will conduct a student survey despite the defeat of the idea at Tuesday's SGA meeting. Committee Chairman Warren
Gould announced his intention to complete a survey without SGA approval at a Wednesday night PCSC meeting. Political Science professor
Thomas Kazee assisted in writing the survey questions which range in opinion from strict self-selection to a two-tier system to
the PCSC proposal. In addition, it contains a query about overall satisfaction with the current system.

Guided by Kazee, the poll is a random sampling of 300 students which will be generalizable to the entire student
body, according to Gould. He hopes it...will provide powerful evidence to convince the Trustees to alter current self-selection policy. At
Tuesday's SGA meeting, Gould asked that a poll be conducted to gauge accurately student sentiment. Opposition to the proposal was
vocal. Senator Keith Revell felt the idea was “superfluous,” because student interviews and a questionnaire had already been completed. Gould’s
motion was defeated 10-3.

Faculty Delays Action on Semesters
By DUNCAN FRASER

The Faculty considered a motion Tuesday to extend the previously approved 28-week academic year to 30 weeks, proposed by College
President Samuel Spencer. They delayed action on Spencer’s proposal until the Faculty Executive Committee meets with the Trustee Executive Committee
to discuss the situation.

In a March 31 letter, Spencer asked the Faculty to reconsider its decision on the length of semesters. According to
Spencer, Business Manager Bob Currie and Comptroller Robert Davidson approached him with “concern over potential problems” which the change from
a 30-week academic year to a 28-week year might create. When the Committee on the Calendar contacted Davidson and Currie
earlier in the year, they did not understand that a change from quarters to semesters also entailed decreasing the number
of weeks students would be on campus.

The problems with the 14-week semester arise out of students being on campus two weeks fewer per year, according to
Spencer. Personnel in the food service and laundry would have to be paid while no revenue would be coming in.
Spencer said that problems might arise also in the area of work-study student aid. Students currently work thirty weeks at
ten hours per week, but under the 14-week system, a student would lose two weeks and be forced to work
eleven hours during the remaining weeks.

In his letter, Spencer said the Trustees had expressed “strong concerns about the change” partly because of business problems and
“partly because of the general tendency in colleges and universities to abbreviate further the on-campus academic experience.” The problem essentially
concerns the principle of “whether students are on campus 14 or 15 weeks,” said Spencer.

(Continued on page 4)

The next question raised at the meeting was what to do with the PCSC proposal itself. PCSC member Burt Taylor
suggested that it be moved through all steps of student approval in order to “have it ready for the new
president to review.” The senators decided to shelf the proposal until next week so that SGA members could digest it
fully.

After the meeting, Gould said he was “flabbergasted that not more people voted for a poll.” He said that the
poll done by Kazee’s public opinions class contains nothing about the PCSC proposal, and despite the committee's work, nothing genuinely
generalizable has resulted. An open forum held last Monday produced little consensus among the 25 students attending it.

Gould presented two proposals: the PCSC proposal which would legitimize “oral encouragements” and improve freshman indoctrination into the Court; and
a proposal written by sophomores Ross Holt and Pete Skillern which would eliminate all encouragements and require full enforcement of
self-selection.

Gould appointed four new members to the PCSC at the Wednesday meeting: Hunter Monroe, Lentz Ivey, Ross Holt, and Todd
Wiebusch. Other members are Pete Skillern, Warren Gould, Pat Woodward, Burt Taylor, and Beadsie Woo.

Reported by Ross Holt

Inside This Week
‘Poor Murderer!’: The spring theater production is a convoluted thing. Read the review and background on page 8
‘Women’s Tennis: The 3.5-plus group goes for an NCAA bid. Story on page 13
‘Selectivity: A passively discouraged freshman examines fraternity selectivity. See page 15
‘SGA Focus: Read about Davidson's own student government. Candid interview with President Hunter Monroe. Pages 5 and 6
