Friday, December 7, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Wildcat Men’s Basketball Team

Clockwise from top left: Tom Franz, Coach Bobby Hussey, Kenny Wilson, Pepper Bego, Gerry Born, Caryl Dawson, Chris Heineman, Ace
Tanner, and Rafael Hernandez.

"Regardless of what happens in game one we will work hard to be better in game two. Our goal is
to be better in game fifteen than in game ten. I can’t predict any particular finish or number of wins
but I do think we have a chance to be an upper-division team." — Bobby Hussey

Feb. 4 APPALACHIAN Boone 7:30
6 WESTERN CAROLINA Cullowhee 7:30
11 MARSHALL Huntington, WV 7:30
13 VMI Lexington, VA 7:30
16 APPALACHIAN Davidson 7:30
18 EAST TENNESSEE Davidson 7:30
20 UT-CHATTANOOGA Davidson 7:30
25 MARSHALL Davidson 7:30
27 WESTERN CAROLINA Davidson 7:30
Mar. 2-4 SC Tournament Asheville, NC

SC Games in CAPS

"...and has the potential to be an outstanding Southern Conference player. We look for Rafael to give Davidson some quickness,
jumping ability, and offense that have been missing.” Hernandez has contributed especially in rebounds — he had a team-high 8
against Duke.

Jim McConkey C, 6-9, 218, Collinsville, IL
Jim McConkey was probably the best of Davidson’s freshmen last year. In 24 games he averaged 2.4 ppg and 1.4
rpg, shot .524 from the field and .929 from the line, and was named to the Southern Conference All-Freshman team.
“If we are to be successful we will have to do two things,” McConkey says. “One, we will have to
play well as a team — a unity will have to develop among the five players on the floor, wherever
they may be. Two, we need to score more points than last year... we will have to shoot better as
a team.” According to Hussey, McConkey “will have to fill a void at the center position.” As a high school
senior McConkey averaged 22.7 ppg and shot 59% from the field. These numbers helped earn him first team All-Illinois honors
and honorable mention All-America honors.

Billy Naso G, 6-1, 178, Charlotte
Billy Naso is in his second season as a walk-on player, and is the only one for the 1983-84 Wildcats.
Two years ago Naso led Charlotte’s Myers Park High School to a 19-6 record as he scored 19.1 ppg and
led the team in assists. He was an All-Mecklenburg County selection and was named to McDonald’s honorable mention All-America squad.
Hussey lauds Naso because he “always hustles, works hard in practice, and is really dedicated to becoming a good player.
I think if this hustle and dedication continues this year, Billy could be a surprise.”

Ken Niebuhr F, 6-7, 210, Wadsworth, OH
When Buck Williams played for Maryland, Lefty Driesell referred to him as “my horse.” Although Ken Niebuhr isn’t quite as
talented as Mr. Williams, in many respects he is this team’s horse. Niebuhr is one of the team’s strongest players,
and through a lot of hard work earned the vote of most improved player last year. In three games this
year Niebuhr has played very well. As a high school senior Niebuhr led the Wadsworth (Ohio) Grizzlies with 17.1 rebounds
per game and 16.9 ppg. He shot 52 percent from the field. “We must build a tradition of hard work,
discipline, and good sportsmanship,” says Niebuhr, recipient of this year’s sophomore Goodwin-Exxon Award. “With this type of attitude we will
surprise people in the...Southern Conference.

Ted Wolfe
F, 6-9, 215, Arlington Heights, IL

Of the “unknown quantities” of Davidson basketball this season, Ted Wolfe is the most unknown of the returnees. An early-season
attack of mononucleosis debilitated him for most of the season. “This could be an exciting year for Ted,” Coach Hussey
declares. “With the work he did in the spring and off-season we believe Ted should make a strong contribution. He’s
a very good rebounder who works extremely hard.” Wolfe is also a good mid-range (8-14 ft.) shooter. Two years ago
he led Arlington (Illinois) High to a 25-6 record and was named to the All-Mid-Suburban (Chicago) League for the second
consecutive year. “I believe Davidson is going to surprise a lot of people this year,” contends Wolfe. “It’s going to
take a lot of effort though. We can do very well in the conference if we improve all the way
through the season.”

Caryl Dawson
G, 6-0, 162, Jacksonville, FL

Caryl Dawson says, “As a point guard, team leadership is asked of me. That means making us work as a
unit and making the team cohesive in what we do. As far as personal goals are concerned, it would be
nice to be the most exciting player in the conference, but within the framework of team goals.” Already Dawson has
taken steps in all those directions. Dawson, though a mere six feet tall, led his high school team with 25
dunks last year. He averaged 17.5 ppg while shooting 54 percent from the field and averaged six assists per game.
He was named to All-Jacksonville and All-Florida teams. Coach Hussey describes Caryl as “small but quick and plays much bigger
than his actual size. He is a true point guard with excellent quickness and outstanding jumping ability.” Dawson is also
a more dynamic passer than Wildcat fans have seen in the recent past.

Chris Heineman
G, 6-2, 150, Connersville, IN

Indiana is the most basketball-crazy state in the Union. They have only one state high school basketball champion — none
of this 4A and 3A bunk for those Hoosiers. Chris Heineman played for Indiana’s champion last year. He led Connersville
High in scoring (56 percent fg, 82 percent ft) en route to a 26-2 record. Heineman is a player. For
those of you who remember UT-C’s Nick Morken, who shares Heineman’s alma mater, you can have a general idea of
the sort of heady play one expects from Heineman. “Chris has the opportunity to play second and point guard for
us,” explains Hussey. “He is an excellent shooter and is very dedicated to basketball. Chris has an opportunity to play
a vital role in the Davidson program this year.”

Anthony “Ace” Tanner
F/G, 6-7, 198, Cottondale, FL

It’s very simple: Ace Tanner may be the most talented player Davidson has ever had. He may also be the
most underdeveloped. Tanner is the longest 6-7 you'll ever see — he’s got very long arms and legs (in the
mold of former Louisville standout Roger Barkman). He’s got huge hands. And can he leap! He eventually will be a
stunning dunker (he’s already got one this year). In high school he averaged 15.2 ppg and 14.7 rpg. Add on
seven blocks per game and six assists per game — an all-around player. Hussey says simply, “Anthony has a chance
to be one of the all-time outstanding players at Davidson.”
