Friday, November 11, 1983 / The Davidsonian ~ 7

Divisional Races Tighten For College Bowl Junkies
By TIM WAPLES

As College Bowl says goodbye to fall term, let’s have a moment of silence for the College Bowl junkies. For
a week, they’ll have to do without the daily trips to the College Bowl Corner. Back home there’s nobody around
to tell what you’ll be ranked next week. The CB junkie will be forced to resort to Tic-Tac-Dough and Sale
of the Century for his weekly fix. Naturally, the junkie and his almanac will be inseparable. So remember the junkie
when you're working off all that Thanksgiving turkey out in the yard — he’ll be asleep in the reference section
of your local library.

Even rational College Bowlers are buzzing about one topic — the tournament. Scheduled to begin immediately after Christmas, the double-elimination
tournament will include the top two teams from each of the four divisions. At this point in the regular season,
when no team has more than one or two games left in the season, everybody’s got his eye on the
frontrunners, hoping to sneak into the tourney or play the spoiler. Here's the situation in each of the four divisions:

AL EAST: Whiplash, undefeated and ranked number 1, has clinched the division crown. They’ll end their season with the Necrophiliacs
on the first Monday of Winter Term. Number 8 Rubber Babies (3-1) must beat Gracefully Risque on the last day
of the regular season to clinch the second spot. If Risque wins and Peking Man beats Good Buzz, then the
Babies, Risque, and Peking Man will be tied for the second spot. The tiebreaker is total points scored over the
season.

AL WEST: Number 7 I Phelta Thi’s come-from-behind win over number 4 Fourth Estate clinched them a spot in the
Big Time. Fourth Estate will join Thi if they can beat Absolute Values on that first Monday. If Fourth Estate
stumbles, they'll probably still squeeze in on the total points tiebreaker.

NL EAST: With four teams in the Top Ten, this is clearly the most competitive division. Number 5 Madd Mudd
really made things easy for themselves by knocking off Buzz two weeks ago. All they have to do is beat
The Blehc (0-4) on the first Monday back to make their Christmas vacation a little sweeter. Opposite their match will
be the biggest one of the year to date: number two Buzz Aldrins vs. number nine.

Music
By STEPHEN MANK

Tom Waits’s new LP Swordfishtrombones has all the charm of a circus sideshow. This grotesquerie of bizarre and frightening images
lashes out with a biting satire at no particular target. Instead of taking the listener by the hand and showing
him the smiling aspects of life, Waits’s rough voice pulls the listener by the hair and drags him through the
waste and debris he might otherwise ignore.

The first song on the album, “Underground,” boasts a razor-sharp guitar that acts as an ironic antithesis to Waits’s god-awful
vocals. Minimalist drums in the background echo of jungle rhythm while the lyrics wade through horrific images of all the
strange and ghoulish things that occur underground. The following song, “Shore Leave,” is as accurate a musical portrayal of the
sleazy Hong Kong nightlife as it is a lyrical portrayal. Somehow, the unusual instrumentation immediately brings to mind wet asphalt
completely dark except for the reflections of too many neon signs.

Another terrifying song is “Frank’s Wild Years,” about some guy that burns his family and house and a little chihuahua
named Carlos with gasoline. The lyrics are perhaps the wittiest modern music has produced. But Waits is just as adept
at singing of melancholy as he is at singing of killers, whores, and manic paranoia. “Soldier’s Things” is about a
family so poor that they must sell the trinkets and awards of a son lost to war. “Johnsburg, Illinois” touchingly
exalts love as it trivializes it: “there’s a place on my arm / where I’ve written her name / next
to mine / you see I just can't / live without.her / and I’m her only boy / and she
grew up in McHenry / in Johnsburg, Illinois.” “Town with No Cheer” laments a town that has died with the
death of the railroad. Of the three instrumentals on this whopping 15-song LP, the best is “Dave the Butcher.” It
doesn’t even need lyrics to make you think of some blood-thirsty fat man running around with a cleaver. Swordfishtrombone is
not a pretty album to listen to. The music is brain-scrambling, and the vocals are probably the worst on record.
But Waits has a peculiar genius for conjuring images — images no one else would have the nerve to conjure.
This album is not meant to be background. Rather, it is designed to be pondered, like Russian poems. Those who
don’t hate the album will love it.

IF YOU WANT TO BE A PHYSICIAN, WE’LL PAY FOR IT.

If you're willing to invest your skills and knowledge as an Air Force medical officer, we’ll invest in you and
pay your way through medical school. It’s the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. It pays for:
1. medical school tuition
2. books, supplies, equipment, and lab fees
plus a monthly income of more than $550. The Air Force offers a great beginning for you in medicine. See
your Air Force recruiter for details. A great way of life.

Pisces. Assuming that Madd Mudd loses and Buzz wins, then number ten Apocalyptic Hope could enter the picture with a
win over Jed P. Don’t expect it to be that complicated however. Just be in the 900 Room at 8
p.m., Nov. 28, as Buzz and Pisces duke it out.

NL WEST: Number 6 Egomaniac and the Yes Men need just one victory in their last two games to clinch
a berth. Number 3 Better Luck Next Year needs two wins to finish the season at 4-1. If they falter,
Les Miserables (2-1) and Les Idiots Savants (2-2) are still in the picture. If two of these teams end up
tied for second, then the team that won their regular season match goes to the tourney. If there’s a three-way
tie, then total season points is the tiebreaker.

In action last Monday, double-barreled upsets took place at 7:00 as I Phelta Thi nipped Fourth Estate 160-140 and Apocalyptic
Hope slipped into the Top Ten by thumping Pisces 215-130. Clutch performances from old Thi guys Loper and King and
a rousing halftime pep talk from Coach Steve Hughes helped them overcome a 30-point halftime deficit. Pisces proved Drew Davis’
importance to the team Monday. Without him, Pisces came out flat and got ambushed by four hungry freshmen before they
knew what hit them.

In other matches, Madd Mudd stayed red-hot, crushing Jed P. 295-45. If this team can keep the momentum going over
the break, the Mudd will be a force to reckon with in the tourney. Whiplash inherited the number one spot
by stopping Peking Man 215-105 after watching the Estate crumble. Buzz Aldrins stumbled by Blehc, Les Idiots Savants edged the
Thundering Amoebi in a cliffhanger, Rubber Babies coasted past Good Buzz, and Gracefully Risque and the Fresh Men notched wins
as well.

One last reminder: College Bowl is on for Nov. 28, the first Monday everyone is back for winter term. Check
the College Bowl Corner for the schedule and the latest fun from the Green Room. And keep your hands off
that almanac over the break!

Classifieds

Biochemist, Graduate School Fellowships at the University of Alabama Medical Center. The Graduate Program in Biochemistry at the University of
Alabama in Birmingham invites applications from highly qualified students interested in a Ph.D. program. Major areas of emphasis include fundamental
molecular biology, biochemistry of nucleic acids, recombinant-DNA techniques, physical biochemistry, biochemistry of connective tissues, enzymology, X-ray crystallography, and NMR spectroscopy.
All students admitted to the program receive fellowships of $7,500 per year, plus tuition and fees. Interested students should contact
Dr. Charles E. Bugg, Chairman of the Admissions Committee, Department of Biochemistry, University of Alabama in Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama 35294.
Chemistry majors are encouraged to apply!
