Friday, November 4, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Four Watson Fellowship Nominees Selected

By LISA THOMAS

Four nominees have been selected to represent Davidson in the national level competition for Watson Fellowships. Jeb Benedict, Malcolm Campbell, Stephanie Moffett, and Steve Soud were chosen by the selection committee composed of nine faculty members and three students.

The Watson Fellowship is an essentially non-academic grant which gives students $11,900 and one year to travel and pursue a project which they design themselves. The selected seniors submitted proposals which represent a wide array of countries and investigations.

Benedict would like to study the social and cultural aspects of Taiwan's return to Chinese rule in the year 1999. Campbell proposes to continue a biological study which he has pursued at Davidson for three years. He feels that he can come to some definitive conclusions about the hearts of lungfish and hopes to study them in Australia, the only place in the world they can be found. Moffett wants to go to Senegal and Indonesia to study the ancient storytellers of those nations. Soud’s proposal focuses on South Africa where he wishes to study the role of sports figures as a source of national identity.

The selection process began about a month ago with the first round of interviews and the submission of the written proposals. The selection committee first narrowed the field from fifteen to seven or eight candidates. After a second round of interviews, the four students were chosen to represent Davidson in the national competition.

“Davidson has always had at least one recipient but we average two per year [of four nominees],” said philosophy professor Lance Stell, chairman of the selection committee. “So if you are named as a Davidson nominee, you probably have a fifty-fifty chance of receiving a fellowship.”

According to English professor Gill Holland, who is also on the committee, “The proposal needed to be imaginative, feasible, and personally valuable to the student.” The committee had no standards or requirements which they had to use in their decisions. Stell said that in the interview he looked for an “inner drive, or passion to find out the answers to certain kinds of questions.” The proposals, he said, were of a variety ‘as wide as the imagination can come up with.” The committee placed emphasis on extracurricular activities which reveal initiative and commitment to the student’s particular area of interest. The content of the proposal was not as important as the way it was presented.

The Watson fellowship is unique in its flexibility and accommodating nature. Stell hopes that more students will become aware of such opportunities. “We usually have to beat the bushes around here to get students to apply for graduate fellowships.”

Two of Davidson’s nominees received Watson fellowships last year — Scott Eblin and Marvin Overby. Eblin is now in Kingston, Jamaica, studying the Caribbean Basin Initiative, an economic aid package which promotes the economy of the Caribbean by encouraging foreign investment. Overby is in Ireland examining the role of the European Economic Community in cross-border relations in Ireland, France, Belgium, and Northern Ireland.

The national organization which sponsors the fellowship states its purpose is “to provide Watson fellows an opportunity to explore with thoroughness a particular interest, to test their aspirations and abilities, to view their lives and American society in greater perspective, and concomitantly, to develop a more informed sense of international concern.” The fellowship was begun in 1968 by Mrs. Thomas J. Watson in honor of her late husband who was the founder of I.B.M. Since its beginning, 1,035 Watson fellowships have been awarded.

Trustees Okay Chapel Hour

By ALLISON WILLS

The Davidson Board of Trustees endorsed the proposal to reinstitute chapel programs at Davidson at their annual fall meeting held over last weekend.

“The Trustees did not order us to do it,” Dean of Students Will Terry said. “They just endorsed the idea and urged the President and Academic and Educational Policies Committee to pursue it if it would be feasible with the new schedule.”

The Trustee meeting was routine as expected with most controversial issues and major decisions delayed at the committee level awaiting the appointment of a new president. It was reported in the closed executive session of the Trustees that the process of naming a new head for Davidson is taking longer than expected. Chairman of the Presidential Search Committee Ben Craig explained that the delay is a result of the careful consideration of the numerous highly qualified candidates which the nationwide search has produced.

Nevertheless, new Trustees were sworn in prematurely so they will be eligible to vote if a special meeting is called to endorse a new president prior to the customary February swearing in. The new Trustees are Robert L. Avinger, George Butler, Stuart R. Dickson, Rev. Robert Grigsby, David T. Johnson, Edward J. Mack, and George G. Trask.The Trustees were honored by the SGA Trustee Contact Committee. About forty students were on hand to meet and socialize with their assigned Trustees. Saturday morning the Trustees participated in the Covington Golf Facility Dedication.

900 Room Attendance Suffers, Business Drops

News Analysis By DAN VOORHIS

A month has passed since pitchers disappeared from the 900 Room. In that time, the number of patrons has dropped significantly, and some students continue to question why the change is necessary.

“There’s been a big dropoff in business,” bartender Bill Crone said. “People who want to drink are going elsewhere. It’s just a shame people aren’t coming up as much as they used to.”

Students seem to be staying away in part because of the extra problems involved in getting beer and wine. “The 900 Room has lost the benefit of the doubt,” Crone said. The system currently requires students to show I.D. at the door, get hand-stamped, and show that stamp to the bartender. The rule is one beer per hand stamp.

Dining Service Director Carleton Pritchard denied the correlation between the new procedures and the low turnout. October has always had low attendance, while November shows a large increase, according to Pritchard. “It’s a temporary phenomenon. Last week showed a strong upswing,” he said.

But the pitchers controversy goes beyond the logistical problem of getting a beer. Some students opposing the new policy feel it is a question of honor. “They have taken away the opportunity to be honest. They don’t trust us,” senior George Thompson said. He sees a difference between what the law demands and what the policy does. “What they do to enforce the law is to interpret the law. Pritchard interprets this to mean no pitchers,” he said.

“The issue is the law, not the pitchers,” Union Night Manager Jim Perry said. “We want students to use the room, but at this time the only way to comply with the law and protect the students and the College is not to serve pitchers.”

“The choice is not pitchers or no pitchers, but how we’re going to comply with the law,” Union Director William Brown said. “The law is very rigid.” He disagrees that the system questions students’ honor. Instead, it is a matter of protecting the bartenders who are liable up to $2,000 or two years in prison. Also liable are the potential student violators for $35, as well as the College, whose beer and wine license could be revoked, and the student body who would lose use of the 900 Room. A drinking violation is not under the Honor Code but does fall under the Code of Responsibility. According to Brown, enforcement is not up to the College but to the ABC board which does not recognize the Honor Code.

Bartenders currently cannot monitor the 900 Room. Pritchard said he did not want workers to patrol the floors searching for violators. As the law stands, the bartender can be penalized much more than the violator. “We have to do things to give the bartender a chance,” Brown said.

Thompson felt that Patterson Court parties operate under the same law yet do not have the same restrictions. According to Thompson, Court parties use hand-stamping, a warning sign posted near the bar, and student honor. Monitoring by house members is unnecessary to uphold the law. “It’s students monitoring themselves,” junior Taylor Bowen said. They reason that if the law works in the houses, it would work in the 900 Room.

Brown denied that the 900 Room and Court houses are analogous, because the 900 Room operates under license and would incur a much greater penalty than the houses would. “Our policy is very different from the fraternities’,” he said. “It is much more realistic for our situation.”

Pritchard said the 900 Room’s popularity depended not on drinking but on the intimate surrounding and programming. He does not feel the need to push beer as a business would. “It is offered but not promoted,” Crone said. “You have to give something if you take something away,” Pritchard said of the policy change. In exchange, the 900 Room now serves beer in 16-ounce cups and plans to go to 20-ounce cups sometime this year. These cups, though large, are single servings, whereas the pitchers are designed to serve a group. It is important in the eyes of the law that a significant effort is made to prevent underage drinking.

Thompson sees no real difference between a large cup and a pitcher. Both offer an opportunity to someone determined to violate the law. Other ideas include a “pitcher’s night,” but underage students would have to be excluded. The Union Board and Pritchard hoped to avoid that by banning pitchers in the first place. Table service is another option, but Pritchard said it would be too expensive. Monitoring the floor would destroy the 900 Room’s club atmosphere. Brown welcomes any ideas to allow both pitchers and compliance with the law.