THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXIII, Number 7

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, October 28, 1983

Peggy Pierotti

An oak tree fell last Wednesday, demolishing three cars. See story on page 2.

Outside Study, Scholarships, Questioned

Controversy Surrounds Plott Scholarship

By DAVID McGEE

Controversy surrounds the way proceeds will be used from the Donald Plott Memorial Festival Concert held last January.

“A fundamental disagreement of priorities and basic premises” plagues the committee appointed to set the groundwork for the scholarship program,
according to committee member and Concert oboist Joseph Robinson ’62. The committee stands divided over several issues, primarily whether the
scholarship will retain an emphasis on study outside Davidson, which Robinson feels was why the festival was held.

The committee, appointed by President Emeritus Samuel Spencer, is composed of Dean of Admissions John Griffith, Music department chairman Wilmer
Welsh, and Robinson.

“They have modified their stance some,” Robinson said about school officials involved with the program. He feels the original purpose
of the scholarship has been compromised: to provide the recipients with a liberal arts education from Davidson and musical training
from the best music schools and teachers in the world.

“There is no question we [Robinson and Workman] succeeded because of our study away from Davidson. The real strength of
the school lies in its liberal arts curriculum, but it doesn’t pretend to provide the caliber of professional training at,
say, Eastman or Juilliard,” Robinson said.

Robinson also was not pleased that the first Plott scholarship was awarded to a student already at Davidson. “The money
was meant to recruit students,” he said. Junior Laura McDonald received the first scholarship this summer.

Welsh said that since it was too late last summer to recruit applicants for the program for the upcoming year,
he and others felt that they “had to find a student to get the program going or it would lose
support.”

Because no other college in the country has a scholarship program like the one Davidson is building, Robinson feels

continued on page 6

CCRL Endorses Chapel Hour

By LISA THOMAS

The traditional chapel hour, abandoned 14 years ago, may return to Davidson next fall in a new form.

The Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) has endorsed and urged the monthly or bi-monthly voluntary campus-wide gathering which
would be integrated into the semester system schedule.

The College President will have to approve the suggestion for it to go into effect.

The new chapel hour bears little resemblance to the mandatory one that Davidson used for 132 years. Under the idea
currently being considered, one hour on Tuesday or Thursday would be set aside twice each month. No College organizations would
be allowed to schedule conflicting events such as physical education classes or committee meetings.

CCRL member and College Chaplain Charlie Summers said it is important for the committee to “beat the rush and stake
their claim now” before the semester scheduling is finalized.

The new format would be much more relaxed than the chapel hour of the past, with optional student attendance and
encouraged participation by the faculty and community as well.

Programming would be flexible but would include speakers on religious or ethical issues, such as world peace or world hunger,
with special focus programs during holiday seasons such as Christmas and Thanksgiving. According

continued on page 6

Inside This Week

As tomorrow's big homecoming game against Furman approaches, Davidson’s football players and fans are preparing for another big loss.

The Wildcats (1-6-0) have almost completed their first season in the Southern Conference. The Palladins (5-1-1) are aiming for their
fourth consecutive Southern Conference title. According to head coach Ed Farrell, the football team needs “an effort like we had
against Boston University several years ago to be competitive.”

Football attendance and fan enthusiasm have both been low; some regard the games as no more than a good excuse
for a cocktail party.

Why is there so little support for the team? Is it only because the team is losing? Or could it
be that the team has become separated from the rest of the campus like a subculture within the community?

Farrell admitted that being integrated into school will help the team gain fan support, but he still maintains “support comes
from success.”

Soccer players, he noted, have always been well incorporated into campus life, but attendance at soccer games was low until
they started winning.

The Football Life

Most students are not aware of how much commitment it takes to play football. Players practice four to five hours
a day during the season. They come to school before anyone else and practice in the September heat. They lift
weights in the winter, and they practice in the spring. They have put up with numerous injuries and psychological and
physical exhaustion. And after they finish with football, they must study just like any other student.

The players learn to stick together, in part, because they all must go through these adversities. As Junior

continued on page 6

Fore: New golf course will be dedicated this weekend. Page 3

Fall Production: A review of You Can't Take It With You. Page 7

Superhero: Davidson's Scot Myers is an artist for Marvel Comics.

Soviet Expansionism: Opinion explores the advance of world Communism. Page 13

Sex Survey

The rationale behind a serious survey. Editorial column. Page 14
