The Davidmoanedagain/Friday the 13 5

By TAMMY FAYE

Basketball Coach Bobby Hussey last week bought a $385,000 condominium in Florida for use by the basketball team between games. The apartment sports gold-plated faucets, mirrored ceilings, and 15-foot diameter revolving waterbeds.

Hussey refused to talk with The Davidphonian after repeated attempts to contact him.

Assistant Basketball Coach Jim Baker justified the purchase saying, “It’s important for us to have a place to relax after all our efforts. We think our fans would not begrudge us this little luxury.”

Hussey financed the purchase through contributions to the Wildcat Club. Wildcat Club brochures soliciting donations say that the funds pay for “scholarships that allow starving young people to have a chance to live through sports.” Wildcat Club Director Sandy Carnegie said he wasn’t aware of what Hussey does with the $8,500,000 the Club gives him but didn’t feel “buying a condo is too far out of line with the purpose of the Club, I think.”

OTHER
Baker Aids In Condo Scam

From The Locker Room:
Sound On Life

Well, folks, it’s been an eventful week to say the least, and although I'd like to write a column on each of a variety of subjects, I shall do my best to limit my digression to but one article. Now that I've gotten rid of that mouthful, I'll get on with the show.

I'd like to say a few words about IMAC sports. Everyone knows that it is the most fantasmic legal activity at Davidson. Why, who can forget those kick-ass pick-up games we had last fall? I know I'll be dead in my Baltimore grave before I do. Sweating is the very essence of life’s struggle for existence and a microcosm for the struggle in the world, you gotta admit. It’s just a wonder that only five sports are required for graduation. I know I’ve learned more on the cross-country course than I hope to ever gain in the classroom.

And another thing, I’m glad to finally see the basketball team get a proper facility. Dr. Beatty’s office should do just fine, and so will Spencer’s office (See related article p. 3). I really love basketball. I mean a lot. I mean probably more than you can imagine. I’m just a little ticked that the Csar has to share a desk with Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann. I knew the office would suffer a loss of prestige when they made it a real committee.

Oh yeah, minor sports. The track team runs a lot. Like well-oiled pistons, their legs churn into the air, eating up the miles with every stride. It’s hard to convey the feeling of intensity as they whiz by, especially since you can only see them for three seconds max. It’s something to see though. So get out there and see them.

Somebody tells me that the girls play stuff too, but I’m not sure what. You should go see it though. It’s probably free.

Don't forget to shout at the players too. Get nasty, like a northerner.

Classifieds:

LOST: Purpose for forming SGA committees. Inquire in SGA bunker at the top o’ the Union.

PAPERS TYPED: $5 a page. Sure it sounds expensive, but after the paper is done I have lots of time left over to do just about anything. See, I have great manual dexterity. Call Lolita at extension 69.

FOR SALE: 1983 red BMW, brand new. Birthday present; didn’t like the color. You might like it, but I wanted plaid. Call Buffy at -7777.

TELEPHONE SEX!: Talk to me. I will fill all your fantasies. Tall African mistress named Buffy, so talk to me. Visa and Mastercard. (212) 327-4260.

FOR SALE: Large building on Davidson College campus. Sort of two story in the middle and one story on both sides. Looks okay when you squint. To discuss uses, call Rupert, Herb, or James.

MONEY: Earn money in your spare time. Earn what you want to earn. Be what you want to be. All for just one small sacrifice. Call G. Reaper at 1-(800)-666-STYX for appointment.

WANTED: Women willing to overlook serious social diseases. Send photo and phone number to 609 N. Main Street.

RIDER NEEDED: Princeton bound. Call Woody at -6344.

RIDE WANTED: Headed for corporate America. Contact most of the senior class.

FREE RIDE NEEDED: Bound for abject poverty. Call the rest of the senior class.

PERSONALS

EARL: Come home — all is forgiven. Humes.

Live bodies needed. Badly. Inquire at PAX.

I am not responsible for any debts incurred except for my own. Steve MacMillan.

To the blond stud in 229 Watts: Roses are red, Tar Heels are blue, Even when you're a grouch, I still like you. Love ya lots—Buffy.

SLUG

Yep, we've changed our name again. And we've done it to satisfy you!

FOOD SLUG!