12 Friday, April 15, 1983 / The Davidsonian

By MATT MORRIS

Ragtime (1981)
Produced by Dino de Laurentiis. Directed by Milos Forman. Starring Howard Rollins, Elizabeth McGovern, James Olson, Mary Steenburgen, Brad Dourif, Mandy Patinkin, James Cagney, Norman Mailer, Donald O’Connor, and Pat O’Brien. Music by Randy Newman. Showings: 8 and 10:30 Friday, Love Auditorium. Rating: ****

Milos Forman’s Ragtime is delightful entertainment. Throughout its short two-hour running time, Ragtime encompasses every grace and disgrace imaginable in the American heart and soul. My hat is off to Czechoslovakian director Forman because—as proved with Hair and The Fireman's Ball—he can capture the beauty and mystery of life, whether it be 1913 or 1983, that make it worth the living. Ragtime is one of those rare films that balances amusement with enlightenment and leaves the viewer with an effect that won’t go away after the lights are turned on.

Based on E.L. Doctorow’s fascinatingly stark novel, Ragtime, in its transformation to the screen, has undergone major changes in plot and character development, and all for the better. The story is a collage of different lives intertwining and all the emotional revelations that rumble out of this slice-of-life stew. Evelyn Nesbit (Elizabeth McGovern) has had a slightly illicit affair with the infamous architect Stanford White (Norman Mailer!), which soon pushes her psychotic husband Harry K. Thaw over the edge. Meanwhile, a quaint New Rochelle family finds life suddenly more complicated when they stumble across a black baby in their garden (shocking!). The “younger brother” of this family (they’re never referred to by name) has seen his rebel-without-a-cause instinct grow in the form of Evelyn Nesbit. From here Ragtime takes off, plunging right into early 20th-century New York, looking to the right and left, and like the kaleidoscope it resembles, ultimately puzzling the viewer. But all of life, Forman seems to be saying, is a struggle, and what a delightful odyssey it is! There’s a beautiful scene where an immigrant celebrates his first job as a movie maker with his tiny daughter and says of film, “For a couple of pennies, people see in a short time the whole life of the world.”

Flesh and Fantasy
By JOHN MARKS

Arthur Penn’s Bonnie and Clyde is a violent but paradoxically lyrical paean to the mythical outlaw of American folklore. That’s a mouthful of film jargon, I know, but hear me out. Penn’s tale revolves around two lonely, bored people, Clyde Barrow and Bonnie Parker, who decide to go on a rampage in the same grand tradition as Charlie Starkweather and his girlfriend. They rob banks, gun down innocent people, and in the same breath endear themselves to the rural Texans and Oklahomans for their Robin Hood bravado. Bonnie Parker hailed from Dallas, Texas, where the earliest bank robberies took place and incredibly enough, both she and Clyde are still somewhat fondly remembered by the old-timers.

Penn focuses on this odd dichotomy between the personal charisma of the criminals and their ruthless degrading and murdering of humanity. Walter Hill’s The Long Riders reminds us of this same idea when half the Missouri countryside protects the James Gang, its collective protagonist. In Bonnie and Clyde, we confront these people personally and not only see their point of view but sympathize with them. Life issues to the audience the same ticket that it issued to Bonnie and Clyde, so...We understand and feel their urgent need to world, how they live, how they fight, love. The fact that movies are no longer a couple of pennies is negligible. "Ragtime" redefines everything as having no definition, and somehow this is fulfilling. The acting in "Ragtime" is brilliant, each performer realizing where he stands and ultimately why. Particularly noteworthy is Howard Rollins as the innocent black piano player whose tragic flaw is that he’s tired of being treated like a “nigger.” Rollins’s soliloquy at the end is magical, one of the few moments in film I can think of where I felt like standing up and cheering. Forman makes magic with the females in his movie as well. He presents 20th-century women as we always knew they were, real human beings, not the stuffy superficial sprites that seem to populate so many period pieces.

Mary Steenbergen’s performance as Mother is, like the movie, charming yet complex. Forman draws an amazing amount of insight not from Steenbergen’s words but her actions. Precocious Elizabeth McGovern as mentally and morally incompetent Evelyn Nesbit shows a real comic flair and poses a threat to anyone seeking Carole Lombard’s Queen of Comedy Throne. Her nude scene is hilarious as McGovern manages to maintain her dignity in spite of her blatant promiscuity. And of course, there’s James Cagney, who returns to the screen after a near 20-year hiatus. Time has stolen Cagney’s physical exuberance but his machine-gun wit is still there and he is completely enjoyable. As Younger Brother, Brad Dourif captures that rebellious instinct in us all and his half-child/half-maniac appearance is perfect. Plaudits also go to Randy Newman for his lyrical soundtrack. Newman has always been a shining star in the universe of generally dismal pop music (there is life after ‘Short People’), and his genius is evident here. The title track, “One More Hour,” is one of the most hauntingly beautiful songs I’ve ever heard.

The magic of "Ragtime" lies, however, in the hands of Milos Forman. He has taken Doctorow’s novel, jazzed it up, and broadened its scope so that it affects more than your deep-seated voyeur-of-life. The light, the dark, the abstract — it’s all here, or as the ad says, “Good times, bad times, Ragtime.”

The problem arises when the subtle balance between this outbreak of nervous energy and restraint is upset by the inability of men and women to control themselves. Bonnie and Clyde extricate themselves from the law, and because they do so at the price of other lives, Penn tells us they must die. The final scene is a slow-motion obliteration of the two folk heroes which, in all its blood-splattered glory, rivals Sam Peckinpah’s "The Wild Bunch" in sheer, graphic screen brutality. Penn does have a reason for this, however — it shows the viewer how unheroic, how unpretty, how damnably sad man is in death. With this, he shows us our Robin as flesh and blood paying its dues for crimes committed.

The film features superb performances by Warren Beatty as Clyde Barrow, Faye Dunaway as Bonnie Parker, Gene Hackman as Guch Barrow, and a fine supporting cast which includes Estelle Parsons, Gene Wilder, and Michael J. Pollard. The characters’ lines are often funny, seldom boring, yet filled with an overriding sense of tragedy that gives "Bonnie and Clyde" significance. These are two people who are us and who make the wrong turn that could be ahead of anyone. The opportunity to become a Bonnie and Clyde lies as close as the nearest bank.