(continued from page 8)

According to outgoing president Lee McCormick, the coed eating house costs members $385 per term, with $35 of that going
into the social fund. McCormick said that in addition to the usual parties this spring, PAX will hold a seafood
dinner for new members after self-selection has been completed and will invite new members along on a beach trip as
well.

McCormick outlined two sentiments at PAX regarding the self-selection system. He said that while most feel the system should remain
intact, “there is a feeling that, when you have a pool of strong freshmen who have made an effort to
get to know house members, it is unfortunate” that some of these people can be cut out or put on
a waiting list due to someone who perhaps has not made as great an effort. However, he emphasized, PAX neither
actively nor passively discourages anyone.

At Rusk House, new officers have also been elected. They are: Sherri Lind, President; Atondra Williams, Vice-President; Beth Findlay, Treasurer;
Ann Mitchell, Secretary; Lynn Folcher, kitchen manager; Meg Barron, kitchen assistant; Meg McAm, social chairman; Amy Ashworth, social assistant; and
Lindsey Rader, House Manager. According to President Lind, eating at Rusk costs its members $385 per term.

The Rusk drawing room. by Anderson Scott

Lind said that Rusk attempted to “hit all the freshman girls” simply to make them aware of the house, and
then they tried to invite those who showed interest for meals. Lind also characterized Rusk’s social program as “extensive.” She
said it offered both closed and open parties, mixers, band parties, and the like, as well as service projects. Lind
noted that although “Rusk does not advocate discouragement,” the prevailing attitude there about self-selection was that the “rules should be
written down as it occurs now.”

Kappa Alpha, said treasurer Walter Dean, has not yet elected next year’s officers. The current officers are, in addition to
Dean, Number 1 (President) Charles Hasty; Number 2 (Vice President) Ellis Tinsley, and Number 3 (Secretary) Jim Crowe. According to
Dean, KA is “stable financially.” Membership costs $410 per term, $110 of which is a social fee. In addition, pledges
must pay a pledge fee to the national organization of $85.

Dean noted that KA members hold “a lot of leadership positions on campus,” and are highly active in intramurals. He
characterized the fraternity as “eighty gentlemen in a close-knit fraternity atmosphere” which emphasizes commitment to KA, to the chapter, and
to the college as a whole.

Finally, twenty Sloan Summer Fellowships will be established for faculty members ready to modify existing courses or to plan for
new courses in the humanities and social sciences. Burnett said that the deadline for faculty proposals for fellowships is Feb.
14. Burnett and the Advisory Committee will award the fellowships with the approval of President Spencer and Dean of Academic
Affairs T. C. Price Zimmermann.

Sloan Advisory Committee members are careful to point out that the program aims at enriching social sciences and humanities with
applied math techniques and not at developing pure math or science applications. Burnett said, “We’re not trying to make computer
programmers or computer scientists here. Sloan is for mainline faculty and students in the social sciences and humanities. The program
may lead to the modification of existing courses or to the development of whole new courses, but it will all
be done on a level appropriate to the students and faculty.”

Philosophy Department Chairman Earl MacCormac echoed the same concern. “The main thrust is to retrain...faculty, not to make engineers out
of [students].” MacCormac went on to express faith that the trained liberal arts student will succeed in all fields, including
technical ones — “Liberal arts students will make the best engineers because they understand the critical problems of man, but
they will only be able to compete with students from large universities if they have the technical ability to deal
with problems. Students in a liberal arts college know what it means to be human, what it means to be
in nature, what it means to be in society. What they need is not only the language but the technical
understanding to deal with important problems.”

MacCormac cited imagination in modeling, limits in modeling, and alternative modeling methods as particularly significant topics to liberal arts education
to be explored in the Sloan program.

For my Ski Instructor—

There are so very many times I stop and think of you And of the very special things You often
say and do. And there are just as many times I’ve wished that I could show Your friendship means much
more to me Than you can ever know.

With love— Your Bitch (No)

Assistant Political Science Professor Mary Thornberry pointed to the increasingly technical nature of social science literature as an indication of
the need for faculty to retrain. “There are a good number of faculty members here who have some training in
methodology or statistics, but who nevertheless don’t have the mathematical knowledge to keep up in their fields, much less be
innovative in their areas, without retraining in mathematical and statistical uses.

“The Sloan program will be crucial in terms of our own research and our own ability to understand and translate
for our students. We need more training.” Thornberry said that the introduction of new models and new ways of thinking
to the faculty will have extensive long-range benefits “in terms of the kinds of courses we teach, the types of
research we do, and particularly in generating new communication among departments.”

Sentiment among the general faculty toward the program seems to be very positive. MacCormac said, “We were very excited to
win this grant because we won in the big leagues. I am pleased with what our proposal looks like, and
I think that there is general excitement among the faculty about this.” Thornberry said, “I think that we are getting
a lot of enthusiasm for this program because we are in the unique situation of being able to stay on
the Davidson campus and use the Davidson computer.” Brockway, just back from the New York conference, bubbled enthusiasm. “I was
really pleased with what Davidson is doing. It’s a sense of excitement, nothing short of that. It’s really a very,
very alive feeling.”

Advisory Committee members express optimism that the program will make big strides in allowing the Davidson student exposure to quantitative
methods. Brockway firmly stated, “There can’t be any doubt about the fact that the education level of the student who
is graduated from here in four years is going to be raised by this kind of effort.” MacCormac spoke similarly,
saying, “There’s going to be a higher level of academic work here at Davidson because of this program. It’s these
kinds of programs which continue to make Davidson a different institution.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 February 1983

The Davidsonian offers a typesetting service at reasonable rates. If you need any flyers, brochures, invitations, newsletters, or any other
form of typesetting, call 892-2000 extension 148 or 149 for more information.
