“2. Friday: April 29, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Davidson College Board of Visitors Meets Today

The Davidson College Board of Visitors, a group of some 150 opinion leaders from across the country who advise the
president and other College officials, will hold its annual meeting at Davidson today. Outgoing Davidson College President Samuel R. Spencer
Jr. will present the keynote address to the group, speaking on the subject of “Key Issues in Higher Education Today.”
Spencer will leave Davidson July 1 to become the president of the Virginia Foundation for Independent Colleges.

Congressman James G. Martin and Charlotte attorney Larry J. Dagenhart will present a panel discussion on the question, “Is Public
Policy Hurting or Helping Private Higher Education?” Following a luncheon for the introduction of new members and officers, the Visitors
will take part in two other panel discussions. The first, “Recruiting and Maintaining a Lively Faculty in Tough Times,” will
include Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann and Richardson Professor of Psychology John
Kelton along with Robert G. Hayes, president of Central Distributing Company in Kannapolis, and the Rev. Charles J. Freeland of
Owasso, Okla. The second discussion, addressing the role of marketing in higher education, will feature Jack W. Powers, vice president
for development, John V. Griffith, dean of admissions, and Katherine M. Belk of Charlotte.

Winokur Lectures on Russian Orthodox Churches

University of Alabama Professor of German and Russian Marshall Winokur presented two lectures on Russian Orthodox churches Thursday. Winokur spoke
on the cultural significance of Russian Orthodox churches at a 1 p.m. luncheon at Davidson's Center for Special Studies. Winokur
spoke on “The Case of Moscow’s Vanishing Churches” at 7:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room. Winokur used slides of Moscow's
most spectacular ecclesiastical structures to illustrate his talks. Many of the churches he displayed have been destroyed or converted to
secular use since the 1917 revolution. According to Winokur, Moscow’s population of more than eight million is currently being served
by 45 open Orthodox churches, down from approximately 700 in 1917. By contrast, he said New York boasts some 3,525
churches to serve a population of about seven million. Winokur’s visit was sponsored by the Center for Special Studies.

Choir and Wind Ensemble to Present Concert

The Concert Choir and Wind Ensemble, under the direction of Music Professors William Lawing and Vladimir Morosan, will present a
concert “Festival Music for Voices and Winds” this Monday night at 8:15 p.m. in Love Auditorium. The two musical groups
will perform works for multiple choirs and instruments by such composers as Heinrich Schutz, Giovanni Gabrielli, Johann Pachelbel, and Anton
Bruckner. “This is music written on the grandest scale, designed to amaze and delight the listener,” said Morosan. The Music
Department is sponsoring the concert. Admission is free.

College Job Market Getting Worse

Despite some encouraging signs that the nation’s economy may be starting to pull out of the worst American recession since
World War II, the recovery has yet to show up on campus, and probably won’t in time to help this
spring’s graduates find jobs right away, college placement officers say. In fact, campus recruiting and the number of job offers
to graduating seniors are down again this spring, while experts say starting salaries are lagging behind even the declining inflation
rate. Even engineers and computer science majors, who generally have had their pick of jobs in recent years, are having
more trouble getting work this spring, the officers add. “Last year was a tough year, and this year’s going to
be even worse,” warns Victor Lindquist, placement chief at Northwestern University and director of the Endicott Report, an annual survey
of job prospects for college grads nationwide.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box
218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000 ext. 149 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey
Student Union. Subscriptions cost $7 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, North Carolina.

Ann Meador, Editor
David Resnik, Executive Editor
Dan Voorhis, Duncan Fraser, News Editors
Thurston Hatcher, Features”Editor: Barry Elledge, Opinions Editor: Steve Soud, Sports Editor: Anderson Scott, Photography Editor: Jeffrey Danese, Advertising Manager: Jeff
Mann, Associate Editor: Ross Holt, Managing Editor: Lentz Ivey, Business Manager

NEWS SUMMARY

“Companies keep waiting for this recovery that the president’s trying to jawbone into place, but it may be a long
time in coming,” he predicts. Back in January, the Endicott Report forecasted American business would offer the Class of ’83
11 percent fewer jobs than it did the Class of ’82. “Now,” Lindquist says, “it’s even worse than we thought.”
“For the Class of ’83, it'll be the toughest year since World War II,” adds Jack Shingleton, Michigan State’s placement
director and coordinator of that school’s annual national student job survey.

Students Attend Relationship Retreat

Fifteen students attended a relationships retreat to North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, April 9-10. The retreat, organized by the Chapel
Committee, concerned problems people have in their relationships with family, friends, and lovers. Davidson College Chaplain Charlie Summers and Queens
College Chaplain Beth Johnson led the retreat. The group studied examples from the Bible and related them to everyday relationships,
according to Summers.

Government Toughens Rules for Foreign Students

Restrictions on foreign students attending American colleges are about to get tougher in August and may get even harder if
Congress passes a new bill. The Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) announced last week that, as of August, it will
give foreign students four years to complete their coursework here. If they don’t finish in that time and they want
to continue going to school, they'll have to return to their home countries for two years before re-registering here, explains
INS spokeswoman Janet Graham. At the same time, congressional committees approved bills that, if approved by the full House and
Senate, would force foreign students to return home for two years before becoming eligible to apply for permanent U.S. citizenship.
Graham says the bills are necessary to “deter” foreign students whose “whole intent is never to go back home.” But
Carole Shaffer, international student advisor at the University of San Francisco, believes Congress is trying to keep out foreign students
to save jobs for Americans. “It is our feeling that this legislation is being proposed without proper justification,” adds Georgia
Stewart of the National Association of Foreign Affairs. She insists congressional sponsors of the bill are using “old and not
very reliable” information. The sponsors believe 40 to 50 percent of the 325,000 foreign students now here are trying to
gain permanent resident status. Stewart says only about 15 percent have in fact applied for resident status. “It’s not a
very remarkable figure,” she notes. But the House Subcommittee on Immigration did pass an amendment that would exempt about 4,500
foreigners who apply for certain college jobs — engineering teaching positions in particular — from the return-home requirement.

Fossett to Exhibit Artwork in Union Gallery

An exhibition of artist Sandy Fossett’s work will open in the Union Gallery on May 3 and run until May
17. Her opening reception will be held from 7-9 p.m. and is open to all. Fossett works primarily in lithography,
printing, and pencil drawing, but her exhibition will also feature paintings. Fossett has drawn for newspapers and is considering a
career in advertising.

Leadership Training Committee Sponsors Presentation

The SGA’s Leadership Training Committee sponsored a presentation by Psychology Professor John Kello on Monday night in the 900 Room.
The Committee was formed on March 30 in order to address “leadership skills and communication skills, to open these areas
of interest to the student body,” said SGA Vice-president Lentz Ivey. Brad Uline is the chairman of the Committee.

News Staff: Kelly Sundberg, Assistant News Editor; Diana Bohrer, Roxanna Guilford, Mary Beth Harding, Paulette Kurani, Jeff Holland, John Ruppenthal,
Mike Tantillo

Features Staff: Fred Broadwell, Brian Butler, Craig Detweiler, Jon Glance, Bob Finch, John Krotchko, Eric Long, Kirsten McDonald, John Marks,
Matt Mortis, Tracy Thompson

Sports Staff: Bobby Barnes, Scott Huie, Kara Gilmore, Garry Sullivan

Photography Staff: Peggy Pierotti, Assistant Photography Editor; Neil Cooksey, Angelique Foster, Ann Hunter

Business Staff: David McCurry, Kurt Henjes, William White

Production Staff: Rob Hollenbeck, Jim Morgan
