From the Locker Room

The Art of Dunking

Any description of the dunk exhausts the limits of the English vocabulary. The dunk is an act of such explosive, spiritual transcendence that it defies accurate communication. Words to relate the moment do not exist; only lingering memories can recreate it. Still, there must be fundamental elements which separate the great dunks from the mediocre. Is the 360 jam the greatest? If so, why? Or is the triple-pump/behind-the-head dunk better? Or is there some dunk virtuoso out there who has visions of a dunking frontier he cannot yet conquer?

For Johnson, quickness and power are the important elements. “You post up, face the basket, give a head fake to get the defensive man off the floor, take one power dribble and bang!” Rafael Hernandez seeks the novel. “I always try for something somebody else hasn’t done, something to please the crowd — a reverse double-pump dunk, maybe a 360.”

Duke of Dunk Kenny Wilson, the team leader with 17 slams this season, figures timing is the most difficult (and therefore most important) element to master. “There are dozens of different situations in which you can dunk it. The dunks I like the most are timing dunks — tip-dunks or alleyoops.” Consequently, KW counts as his best dunk the booming tap-dunk against Massachusetts. “I was standing at the top of the key,” he recalls. “I had a feeling it was coming off right. There was already someone there waiting, I jumped over him, caught the ball at the top of the square, and shoved it back through. I kind of threw it.”

Each player has in his imagination his own idea of the complete dunk. “I like to get up high in the air with the ball at my side,” Cliff Tribus describes. “At the last second, after I’ve peaked about four or five feet from the basket, I like to put it behind my head.” After a pause, he adds, “Actually, I just like to get two points.”

“The harder you dunk... it’s like a sign of sexual virility.” —Brian Rowan

A slam dunk carries with it much more than two points, though. “When your team starts something and someone just leaps up and rams one home, it’s exciting,” says Pollock. “It also intimidates the other team.” Two points go on the scoreboard, but a dunk is worth far more emotionally. In the case of the slam dunk, it’s not that you arrive, it’s how you drive that counts. The whole process of the slam dunk can be divided into three segments: the approach, the dunk, and the follow-through. The great dunkers are the ones who execute all three phases with flair and power.

The Approach

The approach is the crowd igniter. The length of the approach is directly proportional to fan response. An inside power dunk requires a quick first step and doesn’t give the crowd much time to react, but as Pollock suggests, “When you’re in traffic, sometimes it’s the best way to get the ball home.”

The real spark plug dunk, however, is the breakaway dunk. The fast break approach is varied. Hernandez explains, “I get up higher off one foot, but to get off strong I use two. To get off strong, you run, jump-stop, and go up off both legs. That way you get more power into the dunk, and more strength in case you get fouled.” On the other hand, the freshman points out, he gets better hang time by leaving off one foot. “The longer you can hang,” Hernandez says, “the better you can adjust so that you won’t get blocked. It gives you a better chance to dunk the ball.”

“My goal is to take out one of the Davidson backboards.” —Kenny Wilson

“It’s different for everybody,” Richard Wilson counters. “I get more power off of one foot.” Where, then, does a dunker leave the court on a fast break? “The dotted line in the lane,” says Kenny Wilson. “A step outside the lane, coming from the side,” says Hernandez. According to Tribus, it doesn’t matter, as long as you leave...“In stride.” Pollock, not so ambitious, leaves the floor “someplace where I can reach the basket.” None of them is too particular about where he leaves, though, because all of them realize the approach is just foreplay to the climactic second phase.

The Dunk

“A lot of it is how hard somebody dunks,” maintains Brian Rowan. “The harder you dunk... it’s like a sign of sexual virility.”

“I always like the feeling of when the rim hits the forearm,” says Richard Wilson. “If you get up good and you really dunk well, you get a good solid feeling on your forearm. What Brian was saying is directly correlated to how far I get up my arm.”

Kenny Wilson follows the same vein. “I like dunks with power, not finesse. That’s why I get rim burn so bad. My goal is to take out one of the Davidson backboards.”

If ever there were proof of Darwinism on the basketball court, it is the dunk, for the dunk often reveals the brute in men. “You don’t have to dunk hard to dunk well, though,” Richard Wilson points out. Bobby Jones of the Philadelphia 76ers is known as a “finesse dunker.” Perhaps in his case reason prevails over instinct.

If the dunk is at all a statement of virility, then the missed dunk is a show of impotence. “Against VMI last year,” recalls Kenny Wilson, “I jumped too far out and threw it over the basket. It was terrible. I didn’t eat for two days. I didn’t sleep for a week.” Tribus remembers a missed dunk against Wofford. “Richard [Wilson] passed the ball between his legs and I was wide open. I just wound up and slammed it into the rim. It just stopped me.” Worse, the senior says, was when he missed a dunk in a contest. “I was lucky I wasn’t the only one that missed.” Johnson had a dunker’s disaster when he missed three slams in one game. “I went dunk crazy,” he explains. It was right after he’d had a game with six dunks.

The Follow-through

A dunk’s follow-through can be the illustrious encore to an inspiring performance, or the embarrassing fallout of a flop. Darryl Dawkins became the greatest finisher when he shattered the glass backboard after a gorilla dunk. More common is a player like Rowan, who likes to hang on the rim a little when he’s done. Hanging on the rim helps a player stabilize himself and prevent a flop — falling on the rear end. After a dunk, the feet are ahead of the rest of the body, so the follow-through can’t be exaggerated if one plans a two-point landing.

Who combines all these elements well enough to lay claim as the best? “Dominique [Wilkins],” says Hernandez. “He’s got so many different dunks and he’s so vicious. Darryl can break the backboard, but it isn’t pretty.” Rowan and Richard Wilson counter with Dr. J., Julius Erving. “He looks good when he dunks,” they say.

Davidson has its own great dunkers. Kenny Wilson and Hernandez have mastered the 360-dunk. Hernandez has perfected the James Worthy / Julius Erving ball-palmed-overhead slam. Tribus won a dunk contest in high school with one of his own creation. “I pat my hand on the left side of the backboard, pulled myself up, came either below or above the rim, and dunked it,” he explains. “I've still got little scars,” he says, pointing to his fingers.

The slam dunk is embedded in the lore of the game and the psyches of the players. Legend has it that one day someone came to Julius Erving and told him, “There’s a kid in high school (Darrell Griffith, now of the Utah Jazz) who can spin around completely in the air and dunk it. They say he’s the only one in the world who can do it.” Dr. J. pulled himself from the floor of the Spectrum, picked up the basketball beside him, and did a 360. “Now there are two,” he said. Today, there are two thousand, all great artists of the dunk.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 February 1983