Alva Meare

The Davidsonian/Friday, September 16, 1983

- Spotlight On Campus

Extra-Curricular Groups

By ANN MEADOR

From the moment they arrive on campus, Davidson freshmen immediately become part of a recognized campus group: the freshman hall.
In most cases, freshmen seek out other groups as soon as they realize they have spent their first freshman mixer
talking to someone dressed like a fish. It is here that campus groups and organizations come into play.

The selection of things freshmen can do here varies dramatically, which is a nice change from the variety of activities
which most high schools offer. Here is something to consider when contemplating Davidson organizations: high school differs in many respects,
not the least being that Getting into College no longer motivates us to join the Pep Club. Other motivations (including
Getting a Job) now direct our activities, but one can hardly deny that extracurricular activities take on a different meaning
at a residential college twenty miles from East Jesus. In short, a greater variety of choices means that each of
us has a greater chance of finding something we like to do — something we genuinely enjoy and can profit
from in a way different from what we did in high school. Personal satisfaction becomes more prevalent here than back
at Franklin Pierce High.

A list of campus organizations here would probably prove pointless, because most newcomers have already sought out the groups they
think they would like to join. But if you have signed some sheets at the Activities Fair or attended an
organizational meeting, consider these two possibilities: first, the familiar may not be the best for you. That is, there might
be a group on campus you have avoided because you know very little about it. Maybe the group’s leaders have
nasal voices. At least look into the group; give it a chance. For any group to exist here, at least
a few people must be committed to it. Perhaps you could become just as committed to it as they are.
(Who knows, maybe you have a nasal voice.)

This leads to the second possibility, that wafting around the periphery of an organization is of little benefit to anyone,
including yourself. If you define what your role in an organization will be, everyone else in it will appreciate it,
and you will never suffer the guilt of promising too much. Most organizations here welcome, cherish, and nurture even those
who can promise only a little time. The key is making your degree of commitment clear from the start.

On A Somewhat More Serious Note

By JEFFREY MANN

Those of you who decide not to spend every waking moment of the next four years studying or eating will
eventually venture into the world of the Davidson social scene. Yeah, you're ready for it. Animal House, all-night parties, get
blitzed, etc. Everybody’s heard about the parties at college, and I’m sure you're itching to get started.

You’re not the only one waiting. Each house on the Court and the two off-campus fraternities are lying in wait
for you to visit, with a beer in one hand and probably a beer for you in the other. For
the next few weeks you'll find that you're welcome at just about all the big parties.

After a while a funny thing will happen. Someone will decide that some of you aren’t quite so welcome anymore.
In fact, some people will go to great lengths to let you know you aren't welcome. Ever had beer thrown
at you? Several times? For some, this is an accepted form of “discouragement.”

When you consider joining an eating house or fraternity, you'll hear a lot about the great parties, social service projects,
spot box, togetherness, and general good things. All these are a part of life on the Court (and the off-campus
fraternities).

But that’s not the whole story. After a little while some will be chosen, and some rejected. That's where the
pain comes in. Rejection is a part of any social system; at Davidson it’s been institutionalized, just as at many
schools. Don't let the “self-selection” moniker fool you. If you select a house which hasn't selected you as worthy, you
won't want to be a member. They used to deny that an oral encouragement was tantamount to a bid. I
see that they've dropped that distinction in this year’s Wildcat Handbook.

But not to worry. People can have a lot of fun at Davidson, though there is some pain, just like
anywhere. In many ways the eating house and fraternity system here is much better and more compassionate than at many
other schools.

But it is not perfect. Many people in your class will get swept to the side of the social system
at Davidson. That's not a complaint, damning criticism, or dark prediction; just the way it is. Most people succeed in
having a great time here, but there is another side to all those great times.

But don’t let a cynical Senior depress you. You can do that all by yourself in time.
