14. Friday, April 29, 1983 / The Davidsonian

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

Pandora’s Box

As soon as Davidson recognizes a problem, it forms a study committee which may ponder the subject or even present
a proposal. But more often than not, the College delays action pending further investigation.

Check out The Davidsonian’s headlines for the last few weeks: “Faculty Delays Action On Semesters,” “SGA Tallies Patterson Court Survey,”
“PCSC Begins New Poll,” “No Student Evaluation Forms This Term,” “Policy for Non-registrants Undecided.” Unfortunately, most of the biggest news
stories this year have been that nothing happened; a decision has been put off for another week, or another year.
We considered running last week’s paper again this week with the date changed.

Students, faculty, and administrators have all been guilty of this indecisiveness. The faculty and administration have taken two terms to
not come up with an official faculty evaluation system. The SGA can’t even decide how to decide about self-selection. Most
faculty members and administrators won’t talk about implementing the semester system because it is still “tentative” after six months.

As a result of all this procrastinating, Davidson’s next president will inherit a Pandora’s box of unresolved conflicts. The Trustees
have named an interim president, and the College will probably be on “hold” for the next few months. An institution
seeking a new president will naturally refrain from setting long-term policy, but it shouldn’t be an excuse to let problems
linger.

Davidson will probably change more in the next two years than it has since Spencer arrived fifteen years ago. The
College community must confront these changes without hesitation.

Free Speech

Three times this year the Honor Council and Review Board have ordered students to write letters of apology to The
Davidsonian as part of the sanctions given them. We received the third one of the year this week. When we
received the first one last term we had reservations but printed it anyway. After some thought we have decided to
print no further letters ordered by the Honor Council.

The most compelling reason behind our decision is that we do not want The Davidsonian to be used as a
disciplinary device. Our letters page should not act as a means of officially punishing someone.

We also feel that the letters should be a free forum of what people wish to say. If someone is
ordered to write a letter at threat of expulsion, it can hardly be considered free expression. We will, however, print
freely written letters of apology.

The Honor Council is justified in seeking an apology if someone offends the College community. We strongly object, however, when
a letter to The Davidsonian becomes part of a normal sanction. That is not what we want our letters page
to do.

---

Self-Selection

To the Editor:

We would like to express our agreement with the statements concerning self-selection made by President Spencer at Spring Convocation. His
remarks supported the concept of self-selection at Davidson and encouraged its enforcement.

We realize that as human beings we are bound to have prejudices when we evaluate others; however, we do not
wish to see Davidson College condone the judgment and rejection of some students by institutionalizing those prejudices in a bid
system. Any such support would seem to contradict the Christian principles upon which the College was founded. Fraternities at Davidson
provide a valuable social outlet; they produce many campus leaders, and they sponsor needed service projects. We do not believe,
however, that selectivity need be the basis of their brotherhood.

Fraternities can attract enthusiastic and dedicated members through the already existing Patterson Court self-selection system. If fraternities cannot convince their
national headquarters that they are meeting selectivity requirements, they should realize that the College itself is under no obligation to
support any organization whose precepts differ appreciably from those of the school. It is rather the responsibility of the social
unit wishing to remain independent from Davidson’s ethical requirements to find support for itself. In any event, a brotherhood need
not be validated by a national charter.

Since all Davidson students help finance the property and facilities used by the on-campus fraternities, we do not believe that
these organizations have a “natural right” to be selective. The existence of a house on Patterson Court is a privilege
that should be granted only when all Davidson students have an equal opportunity to eat at and use that house.
We appeal to all students, alumni, faculty, and trustees to recognize that self-selection can work with more vigorous enforcement and
that any form of a bid system on campus would be a step backward for Davidson College.

Mike Allan ’83
Edward Hay ’86
Pete Skillern ’85
Nancy Rosselot ’85
David Boone ’83
Harriett Gastin ’84
Mike Mason ’83
Andrew Wells ’84

---

Love It Or Leave It

To the Editor:

Would you be so kind as to assist us in relaying this message to Mr. Matt Morris. Thank you.

Dear Matt,

We the believers in Truth, Justice, and the American Way have something we'd like to tell you. If you are
as you say, a “United States hater,” then why don’t you pack your bags and (pardon the expression) “Haul ass!”

P.S. We'd be glad to help you pack!

Sincerely yours,

Bob Letton
Ernest Andrews
B.F. Pope III
and thirty others

[A list of signatures is on file at the Davidsonian office.]
