6 Friday, March 25, 1983 The Davidsonian

SGA Tallies Patterson Court Survey

By ROSS HOLT

The SGA Patterson Court Study Committee (PCSC) has tallied the results of its self-selection questionnaire, according to committee chairperson Warren
Gould. Although the committee received only 343 of 1194 of the surveys, Gould said enough had come in to discern
general trends on several of the questions. Gould noted, however, that since only about one fourth of the surveys were
returned, “we cannot interpret the results as a homogeneous campus opinion.” He feels, however, that “the results do make several
definite problems in the self-selection clear.” He pointed to questions four and five as examples of this.

In question four, 47.1% of the 343 respondents stated that, before arriving here, they felt “the system is totally self-selected,”
while 46.5% said “the system is two-fold (‘two-tier’).” In question five, which asked what “best describes Davidson’s social system,” 87.8%
said they felt the system is “two-tier.” Gould said that these trends were large enough to indicate a widespread sentiment.

The Patterson Court Committee of the SGA consists of Gould, Minor Hinson, Dave Hutchinson, Pete Skillern, Burt Taylor, Pat Woodward,
and Beadsie Woo. Gould said that several students had voiced concern that some committee members might be biased in favor
of a bid-system. He made clear, however, that the committee “is doing everything possible” to provide an objective report.

A meeting of the PCSC scheduled for yesterday evening was rescheduled for next Wednesday because the committee had not completed
all of the interviews. At their next meeting, committee members will discuss the questionnaire results and hear reports on the
interviews. Gould said he would not expect a final recommendation to come out of the meeting. He wishes, however, to
hold an open forum for students sometime after the meeting. After that, he hopes to bring the committee together once
again to review all of the material from the forum, the interviews, and the questionnaire. A final proposal to the
SGA should come from that meeting. If the SGA accepts the proposal, he said, it would be presented to the
student body by means of a referendum. Gould said he hopes for a turnout of at least 600.

Draft and Financial Aid (continued from page 1)

Colleges can consider. As is the case with Boston University, schools can refuse all aid to non-registrants. They could also
help make up the lost federal funds, or, as a third option, they could continue to give privately supported assistance
but not provide for the lost federal funds. Many schools, according to Stevenson, are using various combinations of all three
possibilities.

Stevenson further discussed the difficulties in enforcing the federal mandate. In addition to sheer paperwork, there is the question of
lawsuits and injunctions. In Minnesota, a suit was filed against the law, citing, among other things, discrimination on the basis
of income. According to Stevenson, this resulted in an injunction, allowing aid to be granted, if only for a temporary
period. She also mentioned several pending court cases dealing with “how it’s enforced and who polices it.” Stevenson predicts long-term
enforcement will rest with individual institutions.

One area of confusion concerns the difference between a conscientious objector and someone who refuses to register for the draft.
Stevenson feels that the difference in relation to federal aid should be clarified. A conscientious objector has registered for the
draft. He does not violate the law. However, a young man who fails to register is breaking the law. Only
the one who fails to register risks forfeiting his federal financial assistance. For non-registrants, Rep. Gerald Solomon (R-NY) has proposed
a bill that would “punish” colleges and universities for providing any private aid to non-registrants.

SGA Elections (continued from page 1)

Ivey said, “Hunter and I have decided that this year the V.P. will take a more active role in consulting
and leading committee chairmen in their goal-setting process. Ivey looks for ‘a more open SGA using already sound foundations of
good relations between the SGA and Davidsonian. The SGA will be more responsive to student concerns.’”

As personal goals, Monroe would like to make leadership an emphasis of the SGA, carrying this out through speakers, workshops,
and a leadership resource center. MonroeHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

would also like to see the “computers better integrated in the Davidson mainstream.” Monroe encourages anyone interested in working with
the SGA this year to attend next Tuesday’s meeting where he and Ivey will discuss the SGA’s goals and methods
for the coming year.

“To operate in a vacuum, apart from other organizations. I hope to improve this because I am involved in a
number of campus organizations. Working toward joint goals is beneficial to all concerned because 1) expenses can be divided; 2)
more manpower is available; 3) more campus interest is generated.”

Monroe sees student and SGA involvement in the transition to the semester system as important because “it will reorganize the
whole of curriculum, which will have a huge effect on students.”

Lentz Ivey is excited about working with Monroe and supports him and his goals for the SGA. Ivey and Monroe
were roommates last year, which will “provide unique insight into each other’s personalities, and make a working relationship easily established,”
according to Ivey.

Such schools would lose current and future government grants. In effect, a student who failed to register for the draft
would be denied any and all financial assistance. According to University of Minnesota’s Director of Financial Aid Robert Misenko, a
non-registrant under the proposed law “might as well forget about pursuing a higher education. Virtually no one gets through school
these days without some form of aid.” He views the issue as one of a “right to an education.”

This same issue has been a key argument against the present denial of aid to non-registrants. Many opponents perceive this
as a denial of a basic right on the grounds of political beliefs and family income. According to Kathy Malulich,
the issue is not one of registration, but of “whether or not they have the money.”

Davidson Chaplain Charlie Summers discussed yet another point of controversy, maintaining that it is “improper for the Federal government to
require a Christian college to be an enforcer of its laws.” While he believes the Federal government should be able
to control its own money, he also believes that the enforcement should be their responsibility. He compares the Federal mandate
to a hypothetical situation in which financial aid is denied to students who can’t prove that they’d filed the proper
income tax forms.

While he has no objection to registration per se, he opposes the inability of a person to register as a
non-combatant or a conscientious objector. The only opportunity to declare one’s status is in the ten-day period prior to induction.
Despite his objections to the law requiring proof of registration before a school can give federal financial assistance, and his
objection to the way registration is conducted, Summers has yet to decide whether he will raise any formal objections (if
Davidson decides to enforce the mandate). He will, however, help students who wish to protest the action by providing resources
and contacts.

Summers discussed the irony of Reagan’s promises to remove the government from the private sector and the signing of this
bill. “Reagan said he’d get off the backs of people and now he’s intruding in the financial aid offices.” He
also mentioned Reagan’s campaign promise: that he would abolish registration. Summers simply points out that eighteen-year-old males still must register
for the draft.

Various civic and religious organizations have raised objections to the law, focusing on the questions of freedom of education and
the law’s enforcement. According to Jeff Dempsey, a member of Amnesty International’s core group, A.I. cannot take a stand on
the issue, because it deals only with situations outside the US. Once the decision is announced by Spencer, more reactions
are expected from various college organizations.
