The Davidsonian/Friday, September 30, 1983

Tom Johnson:
By ALLISON WILLS

Tom Johnson seems like the typical American — certainly not the circus type. But in an attempt to erase painful Vietnam memories and two sour marriages, the thirty-five-year-old native New Yorker joined the Roberts Brothers Circus last March because he says, “this way I don’t have a chance to get attached to nobody. I’m on the road all the time.”

Johnson is a drifter — the circus business’s term for the “regular riff-raff” who join the show on the road — usually to escape something or someone. He and the thirty-five other members of the Roberts Brothers Circus completed their six-month tour of the eastern United States in Davidson Friday night with two performances each drawing about 200 spectators.

While humoring a circus infant and tending the ball toss booth, Johnson spoke seriously about his escape from conventional American life. “All in the world I’m attached to is my dog. In Nam, there was so much pressure and responsibility, I felt hemmed in, and I never want to feel that way again.”

Johnson’s duties are far from glamorous — setting up the tent, driving a truck, and, of course, tending the ball toss booth. The days are so long, and the...

Music Costello
By STEPHEN MANK

At some point in his career, Elvis Costello stopped being admired for his uniqueness and began being respected for his intelligence. Once the dead ringer for Buddy Holly on the fringe of the late 70’s punk movement, Elvis matured under the spotlight to become an extraordinary songwriter. His new album is testament to his improvement.

“Punch the Clock” is a miniature documentary on rock and roll. Using bittersweet lyrics that ramble playfully through every aspect of life and love, Elvis creates the perfect foundation on which to base his catchy pop music. Costello takes the listener from remorse to joy to commentary on man’s lot in life without missing a beat.

Costello has all but retired from the Attractions as a musician, dedicating himself entirely to his true forte, lyrics. His are not the lyrics of a musician who needs words to match the format. Rather they are rollicking images that refuse to fall into the rigid confines of stanzas and choruses. In “The Greatest Thing” Elvis squeezes two or three lines into what should be one.

The first song on the album, “Let Them Talk,” is an all-out funk rave-up, in which horns add a flavor too often lost in today’s music. Here too is an example of lyrics that follow no standards, and more importantly, no clichés.

Steve Nieve defied all conventions in his wonderfully unique keyboards which seem to wander blithely through such songs as “Everyday I Write the Book,” and “Pills and Soap.” “Everyday I Write the Book” also shows how close-knit the group is as a unit. While other groups such as the Police or Pink Floyd have become the devices of single musicians, The Attractions each serve very vital and different roles. The independent drums, bass, and piano integrate harmonically against the lush backdrop of real strings.

But The Attractions are not simply a pop-oriented band. On “Shipbuilding” they readily adapt to the blues genre while Elvis, in his delightfully flat voice, sings of a town whose livelihood depends on building warships. The paradox of living off of death (a la Brecht’s Mother Courage) is an important one as Costello asks, “Is it worth it?”

Just as Elvis recalls the blues that inspired him, he also recalls the punk that made him. His saccharine-sweet, light erotica can be seen in “The World and His Wife,” in which he sings, “The little girl you dangled on your knee without mishap, stirs something in your memory, and something in your lap.” This same theme can be found in “Love Went Mad” in which he wishes a girlfriend “luck with a capital ‘F’.”

Costello has no pretension of being a virtuoso on guitar but he does make occasional cameo appearances on the album. Every now and then, if you listen real close you can...hear his rhythm guitar striking tinny chords in the background. On one song he even plays a solo. Bass and drum players Pete and Bruce Thomas complement each other rather than mimic, both showing great technical adeptness on their respective instruments. Punch the Clock brings back many instruments thought to be long gone from the modern music scene, including piano, organ, and acoustic guitar. Most important are Costello’s lyrics, which on this and preceding albums have carved him a niche in modern rock music.

CLASSIFIEDS

The Campus Forum Committee solicits an enterprising individual to organize and operate a concession to provide the lunch for the Open Luncheon. The Committee is prepared to pay up to $15.00 per week for what should not exceed three hours of work per week: purchasing, assembling, and selling lunch at the Open Luncheon. Express your interest in pocket change and the campus community and owning and operating your own company before you graduate from college by calling Tony Dick (-4981) or Ann Parker (-2000 x192).

HELP WANTED — Part time — Interested in Food Preparation. Apply at Old Cornelius Fish Market & Oyster Bar, North Main St., Cornelius, 892-3820. Hours: Wed.-Sat., 11 a.m. till 9 p.m. and Sun., 12-6. See ad in the Union.

Modern, apartment-type student facility, kitchen/bedroom/bath/recreation room with pool table, 1 mile from campus on Pine Rd. Interested persons call 892-7696 after 6.

LOST: off-white ceramic beer mug (Davidson College). 1952, Howard inscribed on it. Handsome reward. John Ferguson. -6297.

The Davidsonian offers free classifieds to all members of the Davidson Community. Bring ad copy to the Davidsonian office or give it to the Union Desk. Call 892-2000 ext. 148 for more information.

HAIR DESIGNERS STUDIO
237 Catawba Ave. Cornelius
(in rear of the Southern Energy Building)

The Life Of A Circus Drifter

Nights are spent in cramped quarters. It seems like an excessive price to pay for “freedom,” and some drifters find it too excessive. “We pick up drifters all the time. Some find the work too hard, and only stay for a couple of weeks,” Johnson explained as his cigarette smoke wafted into the afternoon sun. “But lots, like me, love this life.” He hopes to stay in the business for the rest of his life, though he admits there is no future in the small-scale circus business. With costs in the range of $2500 a day just to stay in operation, the Roberts Brothers Circus is barely surviving. Its owner, Bob Earl, is a retired aerial artist who opened his show ten years ago to remain tied to the business. Today's audience demands more than a one-elephant show. The goat act and the pony routine just don’t measure up to what we have come to expect from the circus, leaving us depressed rather than jubilated after the modest performance.

While on tour, the circus trucks pull into a small town on the morning of the show and spend all day putting up the tent and preparing for the performance that evening. When the crowd scatters and the last program is sold, the staff packs everything up, and if there is time, Johnson says, “our favorite thing to do is to go to bars and listen to people talk about us and how weird we are.” And the next morning, they are on the road again gearing up for another crowd of reserved adults and distracted preschoolers. But circus people hang on. They love the life and each other. “Some people call them weird and some people call them has-beens, but they're like a family to me,” Johnson said. “We take care of each other.” No one seems to notice that the balance artist is past her prime and certainly too old to be attractive in an elaborate and daringly scarce costume. And no one complains when they have to make a quick change from the glamour of center ring to vending popcorn in a steamy concession stand over the course of an evening.

MON-SAT 10 AM Until

CHILDREN’S HAIRCUT & STYLE
$5.00 off (Male & Female)
HAIR CUT & STYLE $5.00
PERMANENT WAVE 1/2 OFF
No Appointment Necessary
Stylist Rachael Ellicott
Call 602-3129 or 502-4962