8 Friday, April 1, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Films

Judy Garland and the boy next door meet on the porch in a scene from the delightful Meet Me in St. Louis.

Meet Me in St. Louis

By MATT MORRIS
Meet Me in St. Louis (1944) Produced by Arthur Freed. Directed by Vincente Minnelli. Starring Judy Garland, Tom Drake, Cedric Gibbons, and Margaret O’Brien. Showing: Wed. 8 p.m., Love Auditorium. 100 minutes (color) Rating: ****

Meet Me in St. Louis is not a musical, but an exquisite period piece told through song — and what songs! Director Vincente Minnelli made his debut with St. Louis, and his genius is in evidence here as he carefully crafts each frame of the film as if it were a nineteenth-century impressionist painting.

The plot of MMISL is as simple as any MGM musical. Cedric Gibbons is the father of a family of girls growing up in 1906 St. Louis. Esther (Judy Garland), the oldest in the family, has fallen in love with “The Boy Next Door” (a hauntingly beautiful song), and kid sister Margaret O’Brien is up to her ponytails in Halloween shenanigans. Everything goes beautifully for this sprightly family until dad drops the bombshell — he’s moving the group to drab, dirty, boring New York, where, as Margaret O’Brien laments, “We'll be living in ten’ments.” Judy’s dreams of falling permanently into Tom Drake’s arms seem shattered — but are they? From here MMISL takes off, zipping to a real put-on-a-show finale that only a colossal studio like MGM could’ve pulled off.

Minnelli shot MMISL in the old-fashioned, brightly colored film style, and it looks like a psychedelic cartoon with all its splashy dance scenes mixing colored costumes, swirling a red here, a blue there, an orange there. Amid all this is the true star of the film, Judy Garland. With long, auburn hair, enormous eyes, and quivering lips she is tremendously beautiful, and her voice is truly hypnotic. In The Wizard of Oz we saw only a mere taste of what this girl from Grand Rapids could do. In St. Louis she steps into the limelight and captures the audience from the beginning. “Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas” and “The Trolley Song” are splendid tunes, but “The Boy Next Door” is mesmerizing — a sad, lonely song which comments on Garland’s own sad, lonely 47-year life just like “Over the Rainbow.”

Grassroots Rhythm

By PEGGY PIEROTTI

Traditional music came to Davidson March 26 when the Southern Folk Cultural Revival Project, Inc. sponsored a workshop and concert to promote grassroots music. Brought by the Union Cultural Committee, the workshop allowed participants to meet performers, learn about the songs, and generally have a good time.

A well-attended concert culminated the Festival at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room. The program began with the elderly yet vivacious Nimrod Workman who performed his songs (everything from traditional coal-mining ballads to a lively “Watergate Boogie”) with skill and feeling. Workman then demonstrated his physical acuity by linking his arms about his legs and crawling across the stage.

Other featured artists included the world-champion fiddler Frazier Moss, the soul gospel of Jane Sapp, and the country music of Nashville’s Anne Romaine. A graduate of Queens and the University of Virginia currently working on a doctorate in history at U.Va., Romaine beautifully rendered a ballad about Gastonia, N.C.; her home. She also performed an upbeat number describing her move to Nashville titled, “I Had Loretta’s Next Big Hit.”

The crowd enjoyed Doug and Betsy, the Georgia/Sea Island Singers, who performed traditional slave songs with rhythm and meaning. The couple also explained the history of Gullah, a combination of English and African language which slaves spoke.

Such songs as “Pay Me My Money Down” and “Draw Me a Bucket of Water,” as well as “The Old Hambone” and a “Bug Dance” provided a taste of the true flavor of the pre-Civil War era.

-All ABC permits

-Barbecue

CATERING
PIG-PICKINGS

“If you can’t afford to eat with us you can’t afford to eat out”

College Students Welcome
259 South Broad Street
(Formerly the Meeting Place)

-Fish
-Steaks

Phone: 663-0413

Peggy Pierotti