6 Friday, November 4, 1983 / The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

World With One Person: Scott Photographs Life

By IDA PHILLIPS

Photography for many people usually entails dusting off the Kodak and lining up a bunch of relatives for ritual documentation.
For senior Anderson Scott, however, photography becomes more than a chance to photograph the family basset hound; Scott is a
real photographer. The Copeland House Gallery will display 40 of Scott’s color photographs of landscapes and architecture Nov. 11-20 in
a show entitled “World with One Person.”

A native of Montgomery, Alabama, Scott considers his early photography quite different from his current work. “I love to explore,
so when I got my driver’s license I used to drive all over Alabama. After a while I started taking
my dad’s camera. When I first got started, I took pictures of romantic junk, like in a Hallmark card. Now
my photography is almost at the opposite pole,” he said.

Instead of emphasizing the subject of his work, Scott concerns himself primarily with a “clear, balanced composition” involving more abstract
subjects. Some of his favorite work includes photographs of gravel pits in Alabama and of goofy golf courses in Panama
City Beach, Florida. Scott noted that “I always seem to wind up living in places that don’t inspire me.” When
at home in Alabama, he prefers traveling to the northern part of the state for pictures. While in Davidson, Scott
climbs into the mountains for nature photographs. But of course, he cannot ignore Mooresville. “I like to take pictures of
the old beat-up buildings in Mooresville. They have a lot of personality — more than a stark, white skyscraper in
Charlotte.”

Prior to the exhibit at the Copeland House Gallery, Scott has entered his work in three or four other shows.
“But I don’t make a point of being in shows — mostly I’m too lazy. You have to buy your
own frames, which are about $60 each, and you don’t get to see your pictures for about three months while
they’re hanging in the gallery.”

The Copeland House Gallery exhibit has required a lot of work from Scott. A friend who works at the gallery
suggested the idea of a show to the proprietor. She liked Scott’s work, and they developed a show. The preparation
for the show involves some “pretty mundane stuff” such as choosing usable pictures and framing them. Choosing a name for
the exhibit was also tedious. “We all went down to F & M and got really drunk and thought up
some names. We really thought about calling it ‘Buy or Die,’” he said. No joke; Scott is $500 to $600
in the hole because of frame costs and other equipment expenses.

While preparing for the show, Scott made some realizations about his work. The title of the exhibition indicates the fact
that Scott’s work is barren of humanity. Scott explained that he does not like taking pictures of people, because a
good portrait “would elicit their personalities, and I don’t do that well.” Unlike his usual subjects, “people aren’t static. And
I’m interested in control, form, and line. I’m not interested in emotionality. I’ve borrowed from modern artists in that I've
let moods and messages go by the wayside.”

Scott would like to be a professional photographer, but he realizes the difficulties of breaking into the field. “All I'd
have to do to be a professional photographer is take pictures of weddings. But I'd be bored with that. I'd
like to work for a nature magazine, but the competition is tough. I’ve sent my portfolios to some magazines, and
they said they liked my stuff. But that just means they put me on file.”

John Borden Evans Discovers Self In Painting

By MIGUEL ABREU

When John Borden Evans speaks about his art, grasping what he aims at is not easy: “When I paint, I
try not to think about anything,” he says. This statement suggests a conscious refusal to equate art with thoughts which
would tend to interfere with the natural flux of artistic inspiration. “When I start a painting, I have no idea
of what it’s going to look like at the end,” he adds. For Evans painting is “a sort of game”
he plays. “The more you know [about painting], the more there isto know. The problems are in front of you;
it’s a self-discovery process.” The Davidson College Chambers Art Gallery is currently hosting an exhibition of abstract paintings by Evans,
a 1979 Davidson graduate. The power of the self-discovery process lies in its enigmatic, non-verbal dimension. Abstract art provides the
artist and the viewer with alternative means to understand their individual human experience. A question immediately arises: how can one
explain and even simply talk about abstract painting? If any positive answers can be reached, it is that the viewer
can do nothing more than primitively express his or her most basic emotional reaction, for there is no way to
translate an essentially non-referential and non-representational language into verbal language.

As they appear, the paintings display no obvious sense of unity, nor is there any continuous flow among them. Every
one of the paintings stands by itself in isolation. They all provide distinct and unique visual experiences, which makes it
difficult to judge the show as a whole. Even if Evans shows a persistent interest in dots and stripes which
are depicted in many of the canvases, he refuses to assign a general direction to his art. However, this lack
of a persuasive visual perspective in no way diminishes the artistic value of his work. It merely tells us that
as a young painter, Evans is exploring many different fields, searching for the most appropriate visual means to communicate his
personal ideals.

The show culminates in his most recent work, “Guhdy” (September, 1983). The painting’s success lies in the composition’s well-thought-out overall
balance. The patterns interweave and support one another; the many layers of different colors create a mystical effect reminiscent of
Herb Jackson’s “Veronica’s Veil” series. The central torpedo-shaped pattern emerges from the depths of the layers with a powerful determination
which is contained by an aggressive, bright red spot placed on its top. At the bottom, a striped purple and
yellow area forms an echoing center of attention which contributes to the equilibrium of the composition. The sharp contrast between
the multiple layers of pastel colors, which cover most of the surface, and the flat, quick-hit focal centers produces a
violent antithesis that leaps to the eye.

Color, however, is not the only interesting element. Evans confronts us with intriguing overlapping patterns which withstand disclosing their whole
reality. They hide behind one another in a voluptuous game. Random linear movements on the left-hand massive shape also contribute
to the resulting challenging and vivid yet soothing and balanced visual experience. “Guhdy” works because nothing in the composition is
out of place. And this cannot be said of some of the other works in the show. For instance, the
scattered dark blue dots in “Da” achieve an awkward effect because they disturb the harmony of the picture. Evans is
right to have included the dots, for without them the picture would be dull and without much material. However, their
presence in the middle of the mixed-color field seems to have no raison d’être, for they are isolated and unrelated
to any other elements of the composition. Their only claim to existence is that “something” is needed to give life
to the vast color field. But in the final analysis, they reflect nothing more than a lack of inspiration on
the part of the artist, who shows in this particular work a certain inability to construct a coherent whole.

The quality of the remaining paintings ranges between these two pieces. Especially interesting is the work entitled “Roku” (July, 1983).
It presents an original attempt to affirm a unique visual language. The painting displays a false passivity which sucks the
viewer into its intimate intricacies, revealing the zigzagging linear motifs which produce a strong visual reaction.

If something is to be said about Evans’s art in general, it might be that it displays a rare combination
of whim and seriousness. Despite the striking inequality in the artistic value of the exhibited paintings, Evans discloses an encouraging
dedication to discover new solutions and modes of expression. For him, every canvas is a completely new adventure. The permanent
driving force is a genuine enthusiasm for art: “paint the best picture you can and everything else will fall into
place.”
