THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume 64, Number 15
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, March 25, 1983

Monroe, Ivey Win SGA Elections
By MIKE TANTILLO

Hunter Monroe defeated Ester Kim in the SGA presidential runoff Wednesday, 360-304. Lentz Ivey defeated Leon Mason in the vice-presidential
election Tuesday 411-326. Tuesday’s SGA presidential election between Monroe, Kim, and Burt Taylor made Wednesday’s runoff necessary. Tuesday’s results were:
Monroe: 281, Kim: 265, and Taylor: 260.

Voter turnout was up from last year; 806 votes were cast in the presidential election Tuesday (58 percent of student
body), as compared with 718 votes last year. 737 votes were cast (53 percent of student body) in the vice-presidential
election, compared with 654 last year.

Monroe “sets no limits for the SGA.” He will not “only represent student views and issues to the faculty, administration,
and Trustees, but will also articulate the values and high ideals for which Davidson College stands.” Monroe is anxious to
“develop a good relationship with the college’s next president because the effectiveness of the SGA depends on its relationship with
the college’s president. I hope the president will respect the SGA and its representation of student opinion.”

In describing Davidson’s self-selection system, Monroe stated, “There are recognized problems with the system, and if there is a mandate
for change, the SGA’s job will be to entertain student opinion, evaluate the alternatives, and work out a compromise between
the students, eating houses, and the administration. The SGA cannot act as a third, impartial party between the Court and
administration.”

Monroe would like to see more cooperation between organizations and campus. Monroe said, “The SGA has tended (continued on page
6)

Dwindling Membership Forces ETC To Fold
By JEFFREY MANN

The officers of ETC eating house announced this Monday that the house will not reopen next Fall. The house will
continue operating for the rest of this term, but will make no attempt to gain enough members to remain in
existence.

ETC President Laura McDonald said the house has lost 25 members since the beginning of the year and now has
about 42 members. Seventeen freshmen opted for the house during self-selection, but this number will be more than offset by
sophomores going abroad and graduating seniors. College Business Manager Bob Currie has set a membership of 65 as the suggested
minimum for an eating house to operate.

McDonald said that a proposed merger with ATO house, which also suffers from low membership, fell through when ATO voted
to remain open on their own. ETC tried to cut its expenses by eliminating paid waiters, cutting back on food
purchases, and generally “running the house more conservatively,” McDonald said. These efforts were not enough to make up for the
dwindling membership, however.

ETC Treasurer Steve MacMillan said the house’s assets, which include furniture, stereo equipment, and decorations, will probably be sold to
offset a projected deficit of one to two thousand dollars. It is still unclear who will be liable if there
is still a debt after the assets are sold. “Theoretically, the current members and the ones who started the year
are responsible, but they were never informed of this responsibility when they signed up, so it’s unfair to saddle them
withthe debt,” MacMillan said. This threat of an assessment to pay a deficit was largely responsible for ETC’s demise, MacMillan
said. Five seniors decided over spring break not to eat at the house because they were afraid of an assessment.
This unanticipated loss of about $2000 “put us over the brink,” according to MacMillan. “With the Commons and Warner Hall
[eating house] opening this year, one of the Patterson Court houses had to go. Perhaps our closing will make the
other houses stronger in terms of membership,” McDonald said. “Warner Hall hurt us a lot more than the Commons, but
the Commons hurt all of Patterson Court,” MacMillan said. “We lost a lot of our girls to Warner Hall. The
women’s houses will be stronger for a while, but will hurt the coed houses.”

Dean of Students Will Terry said that there are no plans for the house as of yet. “It’ll just sit
empty for a while. . . . [Currie] and I are of the opinion that we want to move very
slowly in finding a use for the house,” he said. MacMillan predicted that most house members would go to the
Commons and ruled out a mass movement to another house. He would like to have seen more support from the
Administration. “I wish (continued on page 6)

Inside This Week
-SGA Weekend
Seventy potential Davidsonians are visiting us here this weekend. Read their whole itinerary on p. 3

By ROXANNA GUILFORD
Students refusing to register for the draft will no longer be eligible for federal financial aid effective July 1, 1983,
according to a recently passed federal bill. Male applicants for aid must present documentation of their registration to be eligible.
According to Director of Financial Aid Kathleen Stevenson, “Davidson’s policy [concerning the link between registration and aid] has not been
established.” While she and Admissions Director John Griffith have put together a proposal that has already gone before the Advisory
Council on Admissions and Financial Aid, neither is at liberty to divulge its contents.

When asked to give some indication of the proposal’s contents, Stevenson said, “That wouldn’t be fair until [College President Samuel]
Spencer has his say.” According to Stevenson, Spencer will make the final decision sometime in the indefinite future. Many schools
are attempting to circumvent this law by guaranteeing student aid in the face of lost federal dollars (e.g., Earlham College
in Indiana, Haverford College in Pennsylvania). Others, such as Boston University, deny any financial assistance, be it federal or private,
to students who refuse to register. The administration, according to Stevenson, will consider students' input in its decision. “I’m sure
he’d [Spencer] be agreeable to any ideas we’d [Stevenson and Griffith] pass along.” She advises concerned students to contact the
two student members of the Admissions and Financial Aid Committee, Vickie Neale and Karyn Hoskins, or to talk to either
her or John Griffith. While unable to discuss Davidson’s reaction to the law, Stevenson did discuss the three basic choices
most (continued on page 6)

-Women’s Tennis is still undefeated after seven matches. See the story on p. 13
-Atheism—Faith confounds Revell. Opinions, p. 17
-Self-Selection Survey completed by the SGA this week. See the story on p. 6.
Non-Profit Organization
U.S. POSTAGE PAID
Permit No. 1
Davidson, N.C. 28036
-IMAC’s back! Softball teams ranked on p. 15
