Record Reviews

Of all the records I’ve heard in the past month or two, this LP must be ranked as one of
my favorites. King Sunny Adé is the most popular performer of Juju music in Nigeria today, and this album demonstrates
the calibre of music being produced in countries beyond the realm of usual Western attention. What, you may well ask,
is Juju music? The answer is: an indigenous music of the Yoruba people in Nigeria, which utilizes western and African
instruments in a graceful pastiche of the familiar and the unique. For example, electric guitars figure quite prominently in the
Juju sound, but a different tuning system is used, which lends an exotic tone to the rhythmic strumming. Sunny Adé
has been something of an innovator in his genre—he was the first musician to employ the steel guitar or the
synthesizer in his band. These instruments have taken on an African character as well; the steel guitar evokes the tropics
in its detached slidings, while the synthesizer, although it mainly executes fairly rudimentary swoops, is not incongruous at all among
the talking drums and intricate percussion.

The first impression that comes to mind upon hearing The African Beats is its similarity to reggae. This is, however,
dispelled upon further listening—the two musics resemble each other mainly in their Third World ambience, and in the relaxed groove
reached and maintained in the songs. The African Beats do not stress the bass line, but instead the rhythmic impetus
is supplied by the talking drums. This form of drum has a wide melodic range (wide enough, in fact, to
allow for actual conversations in Yoruba between two drums). Several of the songs, such as “Mo Beru Agba,” make use
of complex call-and-response patterns between the vocalists and the talking drums. The result is not, however, the raucous Dionysian flailings
one often associates with the music from Africa accompanying television documentaries. Sunny Adé sings with a melodious, restrained style that
occasionally sounds like he’s going to fall asleep (as on the only song with lyrics in English, “365 Is My
Number/The Message”). The African Beats are energetic in their playing, but it is often the laid-back energy of the best
calypso bands, rather than the frantic ferocity of a Voodoo ceremony. The effect is hypnotic in the extreme, particularly on
the opening song, “Ja Funmi,” or on “Eje Nlo Gba Ara Mi.”

If you have never heard this record played on WDAV’s Flipsides, I strongly urge you to sample this endlessly flowing
Nigerian party music. Whether as background music or an aural center of attention, it holds up to repeated listenings.

---

Looking for a chance to handle some fine machinery? $22,000 bucks’ worth?

Then check out The Davidsonian Typesetting Corps. The training is superb. Work with semi-professionals. People who know their craft. Learn
in only minutes; make a fortune in no time.

Make it with us and the sky’s the limit.

If you’ve got what it takes (agility, speed, accuracy), you could be at the controls of anything from a Compugraphic
7200 I to the hottest thing setting, the Mergenthaler CRTronic.

See your Davidsonian Typesetting Corps member, or call (704) 892-2000 ext. 148 today.

The Few. The Proud. The Typesetters.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 4 February 1983
