Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

From The Locker Room Friday, November 11, 1983 / The Davidsonian

¥ Amazons Live Out Collective Destiny

By STEVE SOUD

A flickerball team is not a bandana on a forehead, nor a bourbon and orange juice sporting the team name, nor a catchy theme chant from the sidelines. A team is, at its best, a group of people who, over the years, grow to know one another to the bone, know each other to the point where each senses the part that he and all the others play in the functioning of the whole. Such teams, when they are excellent, are the most compelling subject in sports. And those teams — real teams — live out a collective destiny. Always. Such are the Amazons.

On Sunday, the Amazons — the renowned and infamous Amazons — will attempt to accomplish the unprecedented. They will attempt to win their fourth consecutive IMAC championship. The women from the original Amazons have played four years and never lost. The vaunted “Virgin Defense” has been nearly flawless for four years. Although the girls aren't so talented as to draw the attention of pro scouts, they have a far more important element on their side: mystique. In the end, it may be this mystique which lifts them to their final glory.

The legacy begins on Fourth Rich during the 1980-81 school year. Although they called themselves the “Fourmidables,” spectators soon dubbed them the Amazons due to their tremendous athletic prowess and physical stature. For those who remember, near-mythological names like Monica Gurham and Lisa (Genghis) Klahn are indelibly etched into our memories. “They’ve gone on to matrimonial glory,” explains Lisa Smith. “They just weren’t into the four-year collegiate scene.”

As the years passed and the wins accrued, the Amazon mystique shrouded the team members. It began with the summation of team goals: “A is for amazing; M is for mutilating; A is for always ready to play; Z is for zany; O is for the big O we get when we score; N is for never been beaten; and S is for the sex machines that we are!” They remind themselves of this during each game.

This year the team has really settled into a groove. As always, tailback Mary “Legs” Legerton has been crucial to team success. How did she get so good? “I played powder puff football in high school, and we were the only team to win it both junior and senior year.” The key acquisition for this year, however, may be Sue “Tony Dorsett” Hilton, at right halfback. Her blazing speed makes “option right” a cinch every play. “It’s a personal favorite,” says Hilton. “Mary likes it too.” Hilton is an adroit rusher as well, and attributes much of her success to her new diet. “Before each play,” she explains, “Andrea [Geyer] asks me what I had for dinner. I have to answer ‘raw meat’ before she’ll let me play. One time I was laughing so hard I could hardly say it. I thought she’d hold up the play and take a five-yard delay of game penalty.” The raw meat diet is now a team phenomenon, newcomer Laura Hills claims, “I think the Amazons are the greatest thing that ever happened to me. They taught me how to eat raw meat.”

All raw meat aside, though, the Zons give due credit to their coaches. “We’re...helpless without our coaches,” says Hilton. “We don’t listen to 'em, we just like to look at ’em.” Each game begins with a variety of warm-ups which include right and left-sided jumping jacks and walking on their hands. Then come the boisterous, bar-room cheers:

We wear button-downs, we wear beads,
We’re gonna make your innards bleed.
We wear madras and L.L. Bean,
We're the toughest team you’ve ever seen.

Kappa Alpha Presents:
We're the Amazons! Uuhh, uuhh, uuhh!
We're the Amazons! Uuhh, uuhh, uuhh!

But these intimidating songs may not be the real key to the Zons’ success. “We play best with a hangover,” says Lisa Smith. “We’re not used to playing any other way,” Rives Balcom adds. But this definition of the Amazon mystique is too limiting. “I take it really seriously,” explains Andrea Geyer. “It’s a lot of fun. But by the same token, by winning this year we can really put our name down in history.” Mary Legerton explains, “It’s a chance for a good, close-knit group of girls to get together and have a good time.” But somehow even those definitions don’t encompass the true Amazonian spirit.

On Sunday the Amazons will test their true mettle. The team, which also includes Suzanne Dickey, Holly Spannuth, Emily Davis, Dawna Coutant, Margaret Ervin, Laura Johnson, Mary Fant, Beth Bryant, Boo Hogan, and Mandy Barber, faces the Penthouse Babes (2:00, Flickerball Field one) in a rematch of last year’s finals. The Amazons have won both meetings with the Babes in overtime. In the Babes’ last two games, however, they have scored 60 points. In the same stretch, the Zons have mustered only six. They may have to rely on their mystique. “We've gotta win,” Sue Hilton states with infinite fervor. “We’ve got a party planned for afterwards.” Lisa Smith points out, though, “Win or lose, a party serves our purposes.”

The party will feature the Amazon, a bourbon and orange juice mix of 4 cases of bourbon to one quart of orange juice. “You know, bourbon just doesn’t sit with me,” laments Andrea Geyer. “Mary, you and I should buy a keg and split it.” The Amazons are ready to live out their collective destiny because of their relentless spirit for living life and savoring victory. May that spirit burn in these women forever.

3rd Annual MD Disco
All proceeds to benefit the Muscular Dystrophy Association
Tunes by Fast Scotty Nine-?
Two dollar donation at the door includes one raffle ticket
Additional tickets: 50 cents
Special guest DJ: WPEG’s Mike Saunders

We would like to thank our fine sponsors:
Devideon & Comeius: M and M Soda Shop
Davidson Dry Goods
The Village Store
Park's Rexall Drugs
Food Lion
Witkins BBQ (Cornelius)

Charlotte:
Dikadee’s
Front Porch
Grapevine Record and Tapes
New World Records
Plaza Men’s Stores, Inc.

Mooresville:
Southern Wholesale, Inc.
Moor Lanes
Beal Dealer Wholesale, Inc.
Billy Bob's Western Steer
Pat and Mick's Fish Camp
Holiday Hair Fashions
Mutt’s Chicken and Biscuits
Big Pig Bar-B-Que
Sports Unlimited
Army-Navy Store
Mrs. Beverly Brown
Kentucky Fried Chicken
The Hub Ltd.
Setzer’s Watch and Music Shop

Burlington & Winston-Salem:
Paul Simon’s
Pegay's Shoe Fashions
Mooresville City News
Holt Hosiery Mills
Jodphurs
Buttery Beanery
Showcase Video Club
Mrs. Ralph Holt Jr.
Jack Wood Ltd.
Pisa
Jesse Brown's Outdoor Outfitters
Wise Florist
Douglas Batteries
United Figure Salon