4 Friday, December 2, 1983 / The Davidsonian Special Edition

Consensus For Change Does Not Exist
Steve MacMillan

As the moment approaches when plans for a semester system should be finalized, I think the college community, and particularly the faculty, should again consider the need for this switch. It seems that the system we are preparing to implement has strayed so far from the initial proposals that we will not gain the necessary advantages warranting such an overhaul that were originally envisioned.

We must begin by first looking at the original justifications for changing from the present trimester system. Reasons outlined in the faculty-student forum in the fall of 1982 included the following: a semester system would make our calendar more compatible with other schools’; it would allow us to get out earlier in the spring; it would allow more time between class meetings so that students may better “absorb” material; it would allow more out-of-class work by the students since they will be meeting less in class; and it would mean not having a break in the middle of a term.

After having seen the recent proposal, however, I now wish to challenge these ideas by examining the realities of the assumptions. While a fourteen-week semester plan would have meant getting out earlier in the spring, the proposed fifteen-week plan will still keep us in school until the middle of May, thus negating an original advantage.

Another term repeatedly referred to by advocates of the semester system is “percolation time.” This means that if students have more time between class meetings, they will supposedly have absorbed material from the class meeting better. I would like to rename this concept “evaporation time.” I think we need to recognize the virtues of forcing students to be prepared for all subjects daily. I personally believe that constant interaction with a subject leads to a more complete and lasting understanding of the material. Davidson has clearly believed in the idea of daily preparation in the past, and I do not think we should hastily discard such a system. We must acknowledge that if students have five classes they will prepare for the ones they have tomorrow and not worry about the others for a day or so. Those who do not believe this are deluding themselves.

Another complaint stems from the idea that since students will spend less time in class for a given course, they will have more time to do outside work. We must remember, however, that with an additional two courses students will be spending the same total amount of time in class, but will now have extra demands placed on them by each professor. Perhaps numbers can shed some light on this situation. If each student is normally assigned ten hours of outside work per week for each class, then for the workload to remain unchanged each teacher should only assign six hours of outside work per week. This represents a big change, and one which I am not sure professors are willing to embrace.

Another rather feeble excuse mentioned by supporters of a change is the dislike of a break during winter term. Instead of just one break during one of three terms, the proposal for next year calls for two breaks during the fall semester and one during the spring semester.

There is yet another problem stemming from the calendar proposal for next year. I am amazed that any rational person can approve an exam period of only six days (including Saturdays) after a fifteen-week term with no reading period in between. Who will benefit from such a proposal? No matter how well students keep up in their term’s work, more time is needed to prepare for final exams, especially when the first exam period begins on a Saturday following five days of classes. If nothing else, the rationale behind this proposal must be reconsidered in the face of fairness.

I now call upon members of the faculty and college community to remember the original objectives in switching from the trimester system. If these objectives are not being properly met in the proposal at hand, then we should rethink the proposal. If the reasons for changing and the proposed system are not overwhelmingly supported, then it seems we should remain on the present system. The Davidson trimester system should not be overhauled unless there is a broad consensus for change, and it does not appear that such a consensus exists.

MacMillan is a junior economics major from Stockton, NJ.

Bury The Monster
David Sisk

The semesterThe semester system at Davidson College is not dead. It never lived in the first place. Like some tormented chimera of stolen corpses, semesters lay on the slab while the faculty wrangled over how and when to animate it. Happily, this monster may not be reburied and left to rest in peace if Tuesday’s faculty meeting rescinds its earlier decision to switch.

I don’t think semesters are inherently bad. I even believe that semesters could work at Davidson, but not as the crippled heap of contradictions that suffered through revision after revision last year. I think the faculty should have decided exactly how they wished to implement the system before adopting it, but that’s all water beneath the bridge now. The immediate decision is whether or not to go to semesters this year, next year, or not at all. I fervently hope the faculty will toss the semester system plan out completely and put an end to the whole mess.

I attended a discussion last year at which religion professor Samuel Maloney and several other professors outlined reasons favoring a transition from trimesters to semesters. If I remember correctly, they cited three main reasons. First, a majority of other universities and institutions used the semester schedule, and to switch would mean that Davidson students could more easily take advantage of interdisciplinary courses, special studies, extended studies, and internships. Second, the class scheduling that semesters would require would leave what Maloney called “percolation time” between class meetings. This time off, he declared, would give students needed time to digest and react to the material. Third, and most desirable in my eyes, the panel assured us that with semesters would come the credit-hour system. Under this plan, those long hours in the laboratory, theatre, or language lab would receive course credit.

That was then; this is now. Credit hours, easily the most sensible and sober-headed reason for changing to semesters, have been shot down in flames. Why this was done I have no idea, but it has. The credit-hour system was the trump card of those faculty members who wanted to change. Without it, their hand is worthless.

As for other institutions’ scheduling — so what? If I wanted to attend another college or university, I would have done so. I came to Davidson to get a Davidson education. For those who really want to take terms at other schools, or in Washington, or whatever, the choice is still there. Anyone really motivated to pursue some special focus can, and many do under the trimester plan. If scheduling is the only obstacle stopping Davidson students from getting into independent studies, then I have to think they really aren’t trying.

That leaves only the concept of “percolation time.” I contend that the only percolation semesters would bring would be pots of coffee to help us keep awake to deal with a monster workload. I cannot accept that a Davidson professor, faced with four more weeks and a day between class meetings, would not include more work. Two hours of reading would become four; one problem set would become two or three; and still there are labs for just about half the departments at DC. Percolation time could not work unless professors assigned only as much work per night as they do now, and that’s quite a bit in most cases. If one were to take four or five courses in a semester, and even two professors increased the amount of outside work, percolation time would be devoured by extra reading, more problems, more papers, and more take-home reviews. This does not even take into account the basic human tendency to procrastinate. I must admit that a good deal of this time for me would get taken up with sleeping a bit more, reading for pleasure, and goofing around with my friends. (Anyone who can tell me that they would never use percolation time for anything but studying is either truly brilliant or in need of serious counseling!)

The big reasons for the change, then, are no longer meaningful. Except for credit hours, I question whether they ever were meaningful. When the semester issue burst on campus last year, the SGA referendum was dismissed as meaningless because the students who voted in it did not really understand on what they were voting. I won’t go into that here, but come this Tuesday, the faculty will decide whether or not they want to stick with semesters. I think it’s been long enough for us to understand what’s going on. Let the faculty vote semesters down, put them in the garbage, and get on with the matter at hand — learning. Let the monster rest.

Sisk is a junior English major from Atlanta, Ga.