4 Friday, November 4, 1983 / The Davidsonian

JYA Programs Offer International Education

By FRANCES PALMER with SHANNON ANDERSON

Editor's note: This is the first of two parts on international education opportunities for Davidson students.

Study abroad can be a mind-opening and growth-promoting experience, enhancing a well-rounded education. Through the Office for International Education, students may explore the vast possibilities of education beyond the normal Davidson experience, in fact, beyond the normal American experience. Most Davidson students have heard of the Junior Year Abroad (JYA) programs, particularly those in Montpellier, France, and Marburg, Germany, but perhaps may not be aware of the many other programs that exist both through Davidson and other institutions; some are a year long, some a term, some a semester, and others are during the summer.

According to International Education Coordinator Homer Sutton, international study is becoming increasingly popular. He predicts that 25 percent of all Davidson students participate in international studies during their college years. During the course of last year, 86 Davidson students studied abroad in places such as Spain, Scotland, and England in addition to the 30 JYA students in Montpellier and Marburg. Currently, 64 students are participating in programs spanning India, Spain, Great Britain, and Egypt.

International education is also gaining in importance. Sutton feels that “study abroad forces the individual to grow intellectually and emotionally when he realizes that some beliefs, habits, and traditions he once held to be absolutes reveal themselves to be relative, that is, products of a particular cultural environment.” He added that over the next several years, the Dean Rusk Endowment plans to raise $10 million for international development [See related story on page 1].

Montpellier

Davidson began its Montpellier JYA program in 1964. Located in southern France, ten miles from the Mediterranean coast and about 125 miles from Spain, Montpellier contains nearly 200,000 people. The University of Montpellier, founded in 1221, is one of France’s oldest and most distinguished. Its 27,000 students study in fields ranging from law, theology, and medicine to the humanities and the natural and social sciences. The university is also devoted to a cultural study of its region.

A Resident Director from the Davidson faculty accompanies each JYA group, limited to about 25 students. In addition to providing personal attention for each student, the Director organizes an intensive language course during September and part of October, helps stu-

Rusk Endowment continued from page 1

Other members of the council include: John C. West, former governor of South Carolina and U.S. Ambassador to Saudi Arabia; David E. Long, member of the Policy Planning Staff of the U.S. Department of State; Eckart E. Goette, President of Midrex Corporation of Charlotte; David W. Barnard, former Watson Fellow and an executive with Cummins Engine Company of Columbus, Indiana; Graham Allison, Dean of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. Also joining the Council will be Blaine Kelley Jr., President of the Landmarks Group and Chairman of the Dean Rusk Endowment fund raising drive; and Peter White, President of the Southern Center for International Studies.

Dean Rusk: A Profile

Rusk was born in Cherokee County, Georgia, on February 9, 1901, and attended public schools in Atlanta, graduating from old Boys High School in 1925. He worked for an Atlanta lawyer for two years before enrolling at Davidson College. Working all four years to earn his way through college, Rusk still found time to participate and excel in virtually every phase of campus life. He was active in tennis, track, and basketball; was freshman class president, manager of the Student Store, president of the YMCA; and reached the rank of Cadet Lt. Colonel as commander of the ROTC battalion. In 1931, Rusk was graduated Phi Beta Kappa and named Davidson’s sixth Rhodes Scholar. He earned B.S. and M.A. degrees from St. John’s College, Oxford, where he also received the Cecil Peace Prize in 1933. Later he also studied at the University of Berlin and the University of California Law School.

From 1934 to 1940, Rusk taught at Mills College in California and was appointed dean of the faculty in 1938. On June 19, 1937, he married Virginia Foisie. In 1940, he was called to active duty in the Army and eventually rose to the rank of Colonel. He was deputy chief of staff in the China-Burma-India Theatre and was awarded the Legion of Merit with Oak Leaf Cluster. Rusk began his State Department career in 1946 as assistant chiefof the Division of International Security Affairs. He served in a variety of positions, culminating in his appointment as Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs in 1950. In 1952, Rusk left the State Department to become president of the Rockefeller Foundation, a position he held until 1961. On December 12, 1960, Rusk was named Secretary of State and was sworn into his office in January 1961. He served for eight years under two presidents, Kennedy and Johnson. Since 1970, Rusk has been a professor of international law at the University of Georgia in Athens. He is currently a trustee of Davidson College and honorary chairman of the Davidson 1987 program.

The JYA Montpellier program helps students find housing, organizes excursions, and serves as a liaison with the University and city officials. Those who pass the University qualifying exams become integrated with regular French students rather than take courses designed for foreigners. JYA Montpellier study is not limited to French majors; the course selection is varied, although the shortage of space for natural science lab work necessitates special arrangements. Some credits toward the major as well as toward area requirements are available with sound planning.

Young Democrats Sponsor Drinking Laws Discussion
By DAVID VAN PELT

Statistics show that the new Safe Roads Act has succeeded in changing “the thinking and habits of people.” In a forum sponsored by the Young Democrats, State Representative Robert Slaughter and Secretary of the North Carolina Crime Control Herman Clark discussed the state’s new drinking laws in the 900 Room Wednesday night. Both stressed the public outcry which was largely responsible for the bill. Clark said that much of the public feeling was gauged in public hearings held by a state task force. “There was a very responsive set of hearings all across the state,” he said. “People got behind the bill before it was ever developed.” Slaughter, who called the Safe Roads Act “an idea whose time has come,” added, “It wasn’t just a small, vocal group of far-out individuals. We had a cross-section of just about every type of person our society can create.”

Clark outlined the failings of the old state laws, which consisted of a “driving under the influence” statute. Juries rarely convicted people of DUI, and “many district attorneys were accepting pleas to lesser offenses.” The new law, which raises the drinking age for beer and wine to 19 and repeals the present laws in favor of the single offense of “driving while impaired,” eliminates any plea bargaining whatsoever, according to Clark. Slaughter, a member of the legislative committee in the State House of Representatives to which the bill was sent for review, said that substantial compromise resulted in its passage. After revision in the House and Senate resulted in two different bills, a joint committee was organized to reconcile their differences and present a new bill, which was then sent to both houses.

Slaughter and Clark referred to the precedent of other states (including Michigan, Illinois, and Massachusetts) that have changed their drinking laws as instrumental to the passage of new laws in North Carolina. According to Clark, a federal task force operating at the same time as the state’s found an average reduction of 28 percent in youth automobile fatalities in those states that have raised their drinking ages. Clark said that North Carolina is expected to save six to 24 lives next year by the new law. While the federal task force advised 21 as the most effective minimum drinking age for all alcoholic beverages, Slaughter said that setting the limit of 19 for beer and wine seemed appropriate to legislators “because we felt we could enforce that.” A drinking age of 21, he said, would “foster disrespect for law on college campuses and elsewhere.”

An essential purpose of the Safe Roads Act, according to Clark, “was to get access to beer out of high school age kids.” While Clark regrets the effect of the law upon college students, he said, “It’s just one of those things.” He doesn’t feel that adherence to the law on college campuses will be a major problem. “We're developing a serious situation of alcohol and drug abuse,” he said, but cited statistics showing a decrease in the on-premises consumption of alcohol since the law was implemented on October 2.

KING OF PIZZA
663-3030
225 S. Broad St.
Mooresville

FAMILY NIGHT
Every Monday Night, 5 To 10
PIZZA
BUY ONE PIZZA (ANY SIZE), GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE FREE