Friday, September 23, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Con Artist Sentenced To Five Years In Prison

Charles Edward Williams, who pretended this summer to be a transfer student needing money, pleaded guilty to charges of false pretenses and violation of probation last Friday in Mecklenburg County Superior Court. He was sentenced to five years in prison. Williams received $150 from Davidson College Associate Dean of Students Sue Ross after telling her that he had to attend his parents’ funeral. Authorities say that he has illegally attempted to get money this way at nearly 40 institutions. Williams is still wanted in Union County and Greenville, S.C. on charges of false pretenses. He has had two previous convictions on the same offense, which were reduced to misdemeanors. The judge of Williams’ trial recommended that he be granted work-release to pay back the money Ross gave him.

Feminist Theologian To Be Staley Lecturer

Professor of English at William Paterson College of New Jersey, Virginia Mollenkott, will visit Davidson on September 26 and 27 as the first Staley Lecturer of the 1983-84 school year. In recent years she has studied feminist theology. Her books include: Speech, Silence, and Action: The Cycle of Faith; Is the Homosexual My Neighbor? (Co-author L. Scanzoni); The Divine Feminine: Biblical Imagery of God as Female. She will give a lecture on September 26 at 8 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery called “Biblical Imagery of God as Female and Why It Matters.” She will also give a lecture entitled “Toward a Biblical Use of Power” at 8 p.m. in the Gallery on September 27.

Campus Thefts Surprise Davidson Students

Several on-campus thefts have occurred at Davidson since the school year began, with stolen items including stereo equipment, a $60.00 watch, $35.00 in cash, and several bicycles. A student on the fourth floor of Watts Dorm left his room for approximately 20 minutes to take a shower and discovered $200.00 in stereo equipment stolen when he returned, according to Campus Police officer H. H. Cook. A similar incident occurred on the first floor of Belk Dorm when a tape player and radio were taken from an unlocked room.

NEWS SUMMARY

Job Offers Slim For 1983 Graduates

(CPS)—When it comes to getting a job, Grambling Placement Director L.B. Smith has one short piece of advice: “You don’t want to be a college graduate in 1983.” Nineteen eighty-three has been “the worst employment market in my 25 years in the profession,” adds Victor Lindquist, placement chief at Northwestern and director of the annual Endicott Report of how students around the country are faring in the job market. Although graduates of two-year colleges may be a little more successful this year in finding jobs than their counterparts at four-year schools, counselors around the nation are seemingly unanimous in calling this the worst student job market within memory for all collegians. At some schools, as many as half the firms that normally recruit on campus failed to show up to interview students this year. Nationwide, job offers to all spring grads fell by 17 percent from 1982 levels. Even engineering and computer science grads — who typically were fielding six or seven job offers just a year ago — have gotten 12 percent fewer offers than the Class of 1982. Job offers so far to four-year college grads are down an average of 34 percent since 1982. Oddly enough, liberal arts majors are the only four-year campus grads doing better this summer and fall. Thus far they’ve entertained 10 percent more offers than the Class of 1982. Starting salaries for humanities majors rose 7.6 percent, a College Placement Council (CPC) campus survey released in August found. Engineering majors continue to attract the highest starting salaries and the most number of job offers, but nowhere near the heights their predecessors achieved in the late seventies and early eighties. Businesses have made 42 percent fewer offers to them, the CPC reports. And while the $26,736 average starting salary for chemical engineers ranked second only to petroleum engineers’ $30,816, it was actually 1.2 percent lower than 1982’s average figures.

Forced Sex Rate Higher Than Assumed

(CPS)—The real number of campus rapes and sexual assault cases may be many times higher than officials have traditionally believed, according to a new Auburn University study on sexual attitudes. Nearly one out of every six male students questioned admitted to forcing women to have sex with them, the study of over 200 sophomores found. Twenty percent of the female students surveyed said they had been forced to have sex as well. Cook is not certain if Davidson students are responsible forHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The thefts but feels locking doors and engraving driver’s license numbers on personal items is an effective crime deterrent. “We'll come up and do it for them if they want,” said Cook. The bicycles were removed from Martin Manor and the College Union. Cook would not guess the identity of the thieves but did say, “Sometimes a student will ‘borrow’ a bike and ride it across campus and then leave it.” He added most bikes which are stolen are not locked but have the unused chain wrapped around the seat. Cook said campus police usually find the stolen bikes, but he says the search is often difficult because so many bikes look alike. Cook urges any student who has information about the thefts to talk to the police or owners. The information will be held in strict confidence, he said.

Korean Plane Attack To Be Discussed

Forced to have sex even though they objected. Surprisingly, “very few of the women defined such situations as rape,” notes Auburn psychologist Barry Burkhart, who helped direct the study. “None of these men were ever arrested or charged with rape, and as far as I know none of the women had reported what happened to them,” he says. The reason, it seems, is because all of the incidents involved what experts are now calling “acquaintance rape.” “We’re finding that acquaintance rape is a very frequent type of incident that takes place on campuses,” says Dan Keller, director of public safety at the University of Louisville and president of Campus Crime Prevention Programs, an independent campus law enforcement association. “It could typically involve a girl and guy who meet at a party, then the guy invites the girl home and physically forces her to have sex. The guy just won’t take no for an answer, even if it means using force.” The Auburn study shows that most of the time neither male nor female considers that a rape has occurred, Keller continues, “because of the traditional concept of rape as a situation where somebody grabs you off the sidewalk and attacks you.”

The Korean Airline shooting will be the topic of an open discussion this Sunday at 7:00 in the Morrison Room. German Professor E. O. Wruck, Political Science Professor Lou Ortmayer, and SANE Director Norris Frederick will briefly give their perspectives on the incident and then open the floor for discussion. The program will cover the impact of the KAL shooting upon East-West relations, the peace movement, and the American military perspective.

Burkhart calls the results of his study both “surprising and distressing” because “they indicate that there’s still a great deal of rape sentiment among males in our society.” Keller believes that for every case of reported student rape by a stranger, “there are dozens of cases of acquaintance rape that weren’t reported.” Burkhart agrees, saying that despite the 40 rape cases disclosed by his study, “campus police have had only two rape cases reported in the last several years.”

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. (704) 892-2000 ext. 149 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: David McGee, Assistant News Editor: Chet Barksdale, Andy Clark, Jackie Daughtry, Roxanna Gulford, Wayne Magruder, Bruce Plourde, Greg Smouse, Sarah Smith, Julie Sternal, Aaron Taylor, Lisa Thomas, David Van Pelt, Elizabeth White, Ted Wilson.

Sports Staff: Scott Huie, Assistant Sports Editor: Boyd Blackburn, Kara Gilmore, Pam Harmann, Rand Hartsell.

Photography Staff: Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael Dent, Caryl Dawson, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Mike Jester, Laura McGee, Carroll Overton, Mike Snell, Bruce von Stein, Anderson Scott.

Staff Artists: Ann Hunter, Wilson Lowrey, Alva Moore, Susan Norman.

Circulation Staff: David McCurry, William White.

Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt.

Production Staff: Kevin Horan, Rob Hollenbeck.

Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Lou Hamilton, Debby Williams.

Copy Editing: Christine Jackson.

Ann Meador, Editor; David Resnik, Executive Editor; Ross Holt, Managing Editor; Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor; Lentz Ivey, Business Manager; Dan Voorhis, News Editor; Kelly Sundberg, Features Editor; Steve Soud, Sports Editor; Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor; Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager.