2... Wednesday, December 14, 1983/The Davidsonian

Editors, Union Officials Elected Yesterday

Winter elections for College publications editors as well as College Union officers were held yesterday; several offices were uncontested, and
runoff elections for Freshman Advisors will take place today.

In the contest for Davidsonian editor, the team of Ross Holt and David McGee defeated Duncan Fraser, 514-112. Thomas Evans
will become Union Board President spring term after defeating Joe Park, 326-254. The Union Social Vice-president for 1984-85 is Ross
Hunter, who defeated Mike Jester by a 446-74 vote. Paul Coggins and Sarah Speed will edit The Wildcat Handbook after
a 378-228 victory over Clay Napper and Monicah McGee.

Uncontested races included officers for all the Y-Student Service Corps positions (Beth Maczka, president; Chris Blake, vice-president; Lisa Thomas, secretary;
Laeta Kalogridis, treasurer) and for the Union Co-curricular Vice-president (Ted Garner).

Runoff elections will be held today for Freshman Advisor elections. The team of Hunter Roddey and Mary Griffith will face
Paige Marsh and Harding Erwin.

Quips and Cranks elections would have taken place yesterday, but no one signed up to run. The yearbook is looking
for qualified students interested in the editor’s position; anyone interested is encouraged to contact the Quips and Cranks staff.

Campus Police Toughen Parking Regulations

The increasing number of car accidents on Patterson Court has prompted Davidson Police to start issuing state citations to students
parking outside designated spaces on the Court. The stricter enforcement will begin immediately, according to Campus Police Chief Jackie Hughes.

The third accident this year — a four-car accident — happened last Wednesday. Senior Dwayne Lett ran into three parked
cars outside the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity house. A student witnessed Lett driving off and told officer Johnny Griffith. Davidson
Police have charged Lett with leaving the scene of an accident.

The car Lett was driving — owned by Library Director Leland Park — sustained $300 damage. The first vehicle hit,
belonging to senior Robert Miller, received $1,500 damages. The other two cars, belonging to freshman Caroline Vinson and Ernest Cox
of Denver, N.C., sustained damages of $400 and $250 respectively. Park said arrangements have been made to pay for the
damages.

Another hit-and-run accident involving a vehicle belonging to Junior Jean Webb occurred Oct. 28, but Davidson Police have not brought
charges against anyone yet.

In addition to issuing harsher citations for parking outside designated places on campus, Police will also give similar state citations
for unauthorized parking in handicapped spaces. Fees for this offense will increase from $5 to $25, and including court costs,
the charge will cost offenders $60. Campus Police plan to enforce towing, and costs for other parking violations will total
$35.

Fall Term Honor Cases Released

Two students were suspended last term for two terms each for cheating, Dean of Students Will Terry said last week.
One case was decided by the Honor Council and the other by Terry. There were no suspensions under the Code
of Responsibility, Terry said.

NEWS SUMMARY

New Trustees Join Davidson Family

Seven new trustees will begin terms January 1, 1984. The Alumni Association, which keeps eight trustees on the Board, has
chosen Robert Avinger ’60 to succeed Jerry Norvell as its ex-officio President. Avinger will serve a two-year term, the first
year as President. Avinger, who lives in Charlotte, is a partner...in the Sterling Capital Management Company. He is married and
has two children. Stuart Dickson ’51 will begin a two-year term as ex-officio Chairman of the Board of Visitors, the
first serving as Chairman. Dickson, who will replace John McPherson, is Chairman of the Board of the Ruddick Corporation in
Charlotte. Dickson and his family live in Charlotte. Edward Mack and George Trask will each begin four-year terms representing the
Alumni Association, with a maximum of two terms. Mack and Trask will replace Larry Dagenhart and E. Craig Wall, both
of whom have served two terms. Mack ’37 from Greensboro, N.C., is a retired Vice-President of Burlington Industries. He is
married and has four children. Trask ’62 is President of the Manse Management Corporation in Beaufort, South Carolina. He is
married and has three children. Rev. Robert Grigsby will succeed Joseph Morrison as a representative of Wilmington Presbytery. Grigsby will
serve a four-year term with a maximum of three terms. Grigsby ’53 is Executive Presbyter at Wilmington Presbytery. Grigsby is
married and has four children. Sewanee Presbytery, which has one place on the Board, has elected George Gabel to replace
Thomas Hackney for the four-year, three-term position. Gabel ’60 is an attorney in Jacksonville, Fl. Gabel is married and has
two children. J. David T. Johnson was chosen by the Board as an At-Large Trustee, succeeding Graeme M. Keith, who
served all of three possible four-year terms. Johnson ’49, who is President of the Johnson, Lane, Space, Smith & Co.,
Inc. of Savannah, Ga., will join the Board’s 11 other At-Large members. He is married and has two children.

Old Peregrine Building To Be Moved

The Peregrine House restaurant may have moved to Depot Street, but its old home — known to many as the
Hattie Johnston house — will soon be moved to another location. Davidson residents Marshall Case and Bill Potts have bought
the house, Davidson’s oldest residential building, from Piedmont Bank and have agreed to move it to a lot within the
town “hopefully near one of the entrances,” Case said. City officials had planned to demolish the 113-year-old building to make
room for a brick walkway included in the Davidson Town Plan. Case and others feel that the house has a
place in Davidson’s history and should be preserved. Case plans to refurbish the house after moving it to a new,
as yet undetermined, location. It will then serve as a residence. Case said the structure needs extensive repairs, but is
solid enough to move. Known as the home of a former College secretary, the Hattie Johnston house was the residence
of a local family for nearly 50 years. Before then, the “Red Hanger,” a clothing store, operated out of the
first floor. In 1975, Cindy Booker and Terry Harpe changed their craft shop into the Peregrine House restaurant. Bob and
Betty Johnson bought the restaurant in 1979 and recently moved their business to 127 Depot Street, once the site of
Davidson’s jail.

(Material contributed by The Mecklenburg Gazette)

Compiled by David McGee

CATHY’S BOOK SWAP
Main St. & Hwy. 115
Cornelius, N.C.
Swap and Sell
Silhouette Ecstasy
Science Fiction
Historical Romance
Western Romance

KING OF PIZZA
663-3030
225 S. Broad St.
Mooresville

FAMILY NIGHT
Every Monday Night
5 To 10

BUY ONE PIZZA
(ANY SIZE)
GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE FREE
