The Davidsonian/Friday, October 14, 1983

Freshman Babes Catch A College Bowl Buzz
By TIM WAPLES

One month ago, they were meekly unpacking their suitcases, timid newcomers to the world of academia. Then someone put a buzzer in their hands, the first fateful step on the road to... College Bowl junkie! It’s always hardest on the freshmen. Inundated by Humes rewrites and Bio 31 labs, hounded by hall meetings and last night’s Eggplant Parmigian, they find solace for half an hour on Monday nights. Almost hourly, they check the College Bowl Corner. Perhaps the new standings and next week’s schedule are up already. With hushed anticipation, the CB junkie checks the Top Ten in hopes that he’s been recognized by the powers-that-be in the weekly commentary emanating from the mystical Green Room. “Dr. Epes said ‘nice game’ to me last night. I think I’m... IN!,” an ecstatic junkie was overheard to remark last Tuesday.

Contrary to this grim advice, the Babes in Buzzers performed impressively Monday. Four of the seven freshmen teams won, while a fifth, the Necrophiliacs, was in the running until the final two minutes. Two teams, Apocalyptic Hope and Idiot Savants, are 1-1 and tied for tenth in the league standings. Idiots’ 250-110 win over the Narcoleptics, paced by power forward Rob Norman, was the third highest-scoring offensive performance of the year.

Fresh Air from Big Country
By STEVE MANK

Nowadays, if you want to listen to new music you have to listen to flat voices, drum machines, and synthesizers. It seems as though the modern musician does not believe in playing the guitar adeptly; rather, he is content to belt out three distorted power chords and let it go at that. Big Country is a refreshing change from that moribund-video-game, techno-feedback power pop that is so hard to avoid. Their new album, The Crossing, is one of true virtuosity and electronic wizardry. They’ve managed not only to rediscover the basic instruments of rock and roll (real drums, bass, electric and acoustic guitars, and piano), but they have also reassessed their capabilities. The single off the album, “In a Big Country,” is by far the best song. It features some fanciful device they’ve discovered called an E-bow, which successfully produces what is probably the best guitar imitation of a bagpipe or record.

The most beautiful song on The Crossing is “The Storm.” Not only is the acoustic guitar some of the best rock has produced, but the fabled E-bow makes yet another appearance; this time as a violin. The theme of the album is undeniably Celtic. The bagpipe sounds and often sylvan lyrics — “we lead the mayday feasting / we saw the harvest home” — conjure images of kilts and green pastures invariably to mind. The guitar playing reaches its peak on “Close Action” as Bruce Watson and Stuart Adamson break with the traditions of new music by playing the same lead simultaneously with fluidic precision. Also on “Close Action” can be heard Tony Butler’s contemplative bass and Mark Brzezicki’s drums. This rhythm section is well known, having backed Pete Townshend on his solo projects. Producer Steve Lillywhite, of U2, Psychedelic Furs, and Alarm fame, recreates a wonderful effect, a la Phil Spector’s wall of sound, with a hard edge.

DUKE THE FUQUA SCHOOL OF BUSINESS

The Fuqua School of Business at Duke University offers one of the finest available opportunities for unsurpassed professional management training. We are interested in men and women who have proven academic, leadership, and social abilities. Jane D. Novick, Associate Director of Admissions and Financial Aid of the Fuqua School, will be on campus Monday, October 24. Appointment information may be obtained by contacting the Office for Experiential Programs & Life/Work Planning.

The Brainless Wonders of 2nd Rich (mostly) and Dan Murrey’s Fresh Men (the dumbest team name since Tim Ritchie’s Last Second Shot basketball entry) both debated to wins this week. Two freshman teams traveling along the traditional first-year route are Jed P. and the Inspirations and the Yo-yo’s, both 0-1.The Yo-yo’s have managed just a paltry 45 points in two games while giving up 405. Perhaps the mysterious absence of ‘Fearless Leader’ Steve MacMillan from Monday’s match can be attributed to embarrassment. Only the shadow knows.

In other action Monday night, number four Better Luck Next Year avenged their opening defeat by smothering Les Miserables 305-40. McGaughey’s return and a full-court press defense made all the difference as BLNY set a season-high scoring total. Egomaniac and the Yes Men moved from ninth to sixth by topping The Thundering Amoebi by a 170-105 count. Pisces, Rubber Babies, and Gracefully Risque all tallied in the win column as well.

The Game of the Week was the Fresh Men’s 165-135 victory over the Absolute Values. After the youngsters jumped out to a commanding halftime lead, cagey Absolute Values Coach Steve Hughes responded with backrubs for each team member. An inspired second-half performance by the Values produced a 115-115 tie late in the game and the issue remained in doubt until the final minute of play. Coach Hughes, becoming known as the master of the 30-point loss, is widely acknowledged as the greatest intramural coach since Johnny “Deesco” Edwards, who ended his fabled career last season. Always the innovator, Coach Hughes plans to stress physical conditioning this week, with thumb-ups in the Nautilus room and required attendance at Sunday’s Flashbuzz class. Fans everywhere excitedly await Monday’s action, where Steve will go from coach to player-coach status as he will debut with number nine I Phelta Thi. Additional security is anticipated in the Morrison Room at 8 p.m.

Other games to watch for this week are number three Whiplash vs. number eight Rubber Babies and number six Egomaniac and the Yes Men vs. number ten Idiots Savants. For fun, keep your eye on Good Buzz vs. the Necrophiliacs and On the Blehc vs. Jed P. and the Inspirations square-off. What would Pirandello say about four teams in search of a victory? Come to the College Bowl Corner beside the Union desk for the full schedule, rankings, and write-ups. The fun starts at 7 p.m. Monday night. Spectators, coaches, and spiritual advisors are encouraged to attend.

CLASSIFIEDS

Wanted: Someone to do housecleaning on a weekly or biweekly basis. If you don’t mind cleaning, I don’t mind paying. Call 663-3467 after 4 p.m. I live between Davidson and Mooresville and would be willing to provide transportation.

Found: Sum of cash outside Richardson, on Friday the 30th. Identify and it’s yours. Call Stap at 892-4177.

Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St.-Davidson, 28036
892-7521

Found: Pocket watch, 6 sets of keys, lion key ring, add-a-beads, bullwhip, yellow gym bag, brown glass case, gold earrings, digital watchface, red/blue shades, orange coat, gold frame glasses, lady's Rolex, glasses with burgundy case, tortoise frame shades, blue/yellow fingertipless glove, 2 T.I. calculators, glasses with brown case, Copenhagen hat, Red/Blue down vest, Brown/tan/cream sweater, letter to Mrs. J. Gaither. Please pick up your property at the Union Desk as soon as possible.

Order in advance— Wine & Beer by the case: Cost plus 10%
Keg beer: Cost plus 10%