8. Friday, October 21, 1983 / The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Wildcats Give Soulful Performance In 19-7 Loss

By SCOTT HUIE

Could the Wildcats have triumphed in last Saturday’s game against South Carolina State, a team currently ranked 6th nationally in
IAA and formerly ranked number 1? Maybe, but only if they had played football as well as the SC State
marching band played “Freak-a-Zoid,” the hit single from Midnight Star. In other words, their execution would have had to have
been as precise as the band was soulful. They weren’t, and consequently, they lost 19-7.

“For us to win against a team like S.C. State,” said Farrell, “we have to be almost perfect. And we
were not that. We played with a lot of emotion, and we remained aggressive for the whole game. Our disappointment
stems from the fact we had an opportunity to win the game. Change the complexion of a couple of plays,
and we’re in it until the end.”

One of those plays was kicker Bob Carr’s 37-yard field goal attempt in the first quarter which bounced off the
goal post. “That’s been pretty much our luck this year,” said Farrell, “close, but...” But no field goal, no points,
another loss.

As the offense sputtered like a ’74 Pinto, the defense was presenting its own version of doomsday. Twice in the
first half, the Bulldogs drove to inside the Wildcat 10-yard line only to be stopped both times on a fourth-and-one.

Those two goal-line stands were indicative of the team’s inspired play. Said S.C. State coach Bill Davis, “We were embarrassed
by Davidson. They lined up and whipped our butts.” Hardly the words of the winning coach, but understandable when the
casual betting observer would probably not even take Davidson and 30 points.

The defense, however, was not free of breakdown. Midway through the second quarter, State’s quarterback connected on a 32-yard post
pattern over the middle for the score. Momentum was now beginning to drift. The Davidson drill team shook their booties
in ecstasy as the drum section clamored out another funky beat.

Keith Martin lets fly a bomb against S.C. State.

The Bulldogs’ final scores were a third-quarter touchdown and a fourth-quarter field goal. The first one hurt, and reminiscent of
the other games this year, the specialty teams were the culprit. Chasing down a Poag punt, the coverage overran the
play, and the SC State return man ran untouched for 78 yards and a touchdown.

Davidson finally broke the shutout with just over a minute left. Reserve quarterback Jeff Haney lofted a 14-yard scoring strike
to split end Todd Hermetz, whose nifty stutter-step freed him from the coverage.

Defensively, the destroyer was strong safety Stockton Whitten, whose fleetness of foot helped him to get in on 12 tackles.
Offensively, split end Jeff McSwain caught five passes for 87 yards, upping his total reception total to a team-high 21
for 261 yards. The passing attack yielded 136 yards for the Cats as quarterback Keith Martin, tailback Mike Cate, and
Haney all connected for key completions.

Davidson’s rushing attack, which seemed to find itself the week before against Guilford, bounced back into obscurity as the team
could gain only 55 yards on 30 carries. Subtract Poag’s 19-yard run on a fake punt, and the Cats barely
gained a yard a carry.

Tomorrow, Davidson takes its act to Charleston, South Carolina to play The Citadel, 2-4. The Bulldogs feature a sophisticated passing
attack that often uses five different receivers. Said Farrell, “Heck, they even come out of the locker room throwing the
ball.”

The Citadel’s record is a bit deceiving as two of their losses came to Division I powers N.C. State and
Tennessee and the other two to Southern Conference leaders Appalachian State and UT-Chattanooga. So far the...Cats are 0-3 in the
Southern Conference. The last conference game counting toward the SC championship they won was in 1973 when they edged the
very same Bulldogs 19-16. That may be an omen, but I doubt it. Huie’s Prediction: Citadel 27, Davidson 17.

Soccer Team Blows Out Conference Foe Marshall
By BOYD BLACKBURN

What was supposed to be a close one-goal game Saturday became a blowout as Davidson soccer beat conference foe Marshall
6-0. This was by far the Wildcats’ best showing of the year as they equaled their largest victory margin and
improved their season record to 10-1-1.

Davidson’s first goal, midway through the first half, was characteristic of the game and this year as a whole. It
was also the prettiest goal of the year. Freshman Brian Shockley used his speed to beat their outside fullback, took
the ball to the endline, and hit a line drive cross in front of the goal. Mike Lufkin’s diving header
crisply deposited the ball in the back of the net. Both players are substitutes and both have helped give the
offense a certain snap, crackle, and pop.

Throughout the game, the Wildcats played like professionals in front of the net and made the most of their chances.
Tony Cabrales scored the second goal. His cross deflected off the fullback’s foot and drifted over the surprised goalkeeper. It
was like a crack opening at the base of a dam. Water pressure widens the crack more and more until
water starts gushing through and the dam collapses. In this way, the goals started pouring in and Marshall’s enthusiasm died
abruptly. Davidson got the 3-0 lead they took to halftime with Sean Austin’s breakaway goal.

At halftime, Coach Slagle was concerned about a letdown because of the commanding lead. That is what happened against Western
Carolina when the Cats were up 3-0 at the half. But complete domination was the order of this day. Goals
in the second half came from Mike Snell, Austin again on a scramble for a loose ball in front of
the goal, Bill Coxhead on an indirect free kick in the penalty box, and Carter Grine, who hit the last
goal in after Jim Kelley’s punt pulled the goalie out of position. Austin is now third in scoring in the
Southern Conference, and Grine’s goal was the first of his career and came with all the substitutes in.

Indeed the offense was explosive this day, but the defense has shown superb consistency all year. The only game they
have given up more than one goal was against Duke, the number one team in the nation. Goalies Pat Woodward,
Jim Kelley, and Steve Cordon have combined for six shutouts. The fullback crew of Coxhead, Dan Blood, Dave Flowers, and
Jim Wright has the experience and talent to stop almost any attack. Defense is still Davidson’s trademark as Marshall and
several other teams have learned.

Last Thursday, Herd was 2-0 in the conference before the game and appeared to be the main obstacle in Davidson’s
quest for the conference championship. However, with Marshall’s loss here and the next day’s loss to ASU, Davidson is sitting
pretty in control of their own destiny. This weekend the Wildcats make their most important road trip of the year.
Today they play VMI in Lexington, VA, and Sunday’s game is in Huntington, WV, against Marshall. This is the same
road trip that killed their chances last year as they lost both games. Coach Slagle has scheduled a day of
rest between the games and tried to prepare the players mentally to avoid the same disaster. Two wins this week
would clinch the North division of the Southern Conference and put them in the championship game vs. the South division
winner.
