Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

14 Friday, December 7, 1983 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ann Meador, Editor
David Resnik, Executive Editor
Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor
John Gathings, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

Epilogue

The last chapter was written in Davidson’s semester saga yesterday; the faculty overwhelmingly voted to remain on trimesters. Many of
you may feel that this whole ordeal was a waste of time and are glad it’s over. Even though considering
semesters resulted in no real action, it was useful because it allowed the school to reconsider its educational policies. This
is not to say that change for change itself could possibly justify a switch to semesters; it only provides a
reason for considering a switch to semesters.

The proposed semester switch has allowed the school to discuss some of the curricular problems that exist under trimesters. We
are now more aware of lab students’ difficulties under trimesters, the need for percolation time, conflicts with matching our schedule
to other schools — the list goes on. All these problems that the semester system was supposed to solve are
worth considering. We should continue to try to make changes within the trimester system that allow us to alleviate these
difficulties. The school is not going to semesters, but we should not forget the questions we raised. So in the
end of the story, semesters only raised a bunch of questions; it left us with few answers. It may have
seemed like a waste of time, but the school is wiser for it.

The Lock On Athletics

December’s Update features an article entitled “Football: Troubled Key to Davidson Athletics.” The article focuses on the financial aspects of
the program while assuming that the program ought to be a vital part of Davidson athletics. We offer no simple
solutions to the football problem either, but we think a fair-minded article would consider both sides of the issue. The
crucial problems of faculty and student approval of and interest in the program fail to appear until the final paragraphs
of the article. Even then they are treated superficially. We recognize that the Update is primarily a fundraising and alumni
publication, but that is no excuse for sacrificing journalistic integrity.

Endorsement

We, the undersigned members of the Davidsonian staff, endorse the candidacy of Ross Holt and David McGee for editor of
The Davidsonian. We feel they will best provide the experience and understanding the job requires, and they will also maintain
the administrative continuity which is crucial to the newspaper’s stability.

Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor
Lisa Thomas
Ann Meador
Jeff Mann
John Gathings
Debby Williams
David Resnik
Dan Voorhis
Peggy Pierotti
Kevin Horan

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036: Phone (704) 892-2000 ext. 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student
Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, North Carolina 28036.
Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: David McGee, Assistant News Editor; Chet Barksdale, Andy Clark, Roxanna Guilford, Duncan Fraser, Wayne Magruder, Bruce Plourde, Greg
Smouse, Julie Sternal, Aaron Taylor, Lisa Thomas, David Van Pelt, Elizabeth White, Ted Wilson

Features Staff: Brian Butler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris, Ida Phillips, Allison WillsSports Staff: Scott Huie, Assistant Sports Editor; Boyd Blackburn,
Kerry Brown, Dave Earnhardt, Pam Harmann, Rand Hartsell, Frank Schwalbe
Photography Staff: Carroll Overton, Assistant Photography Editor; Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael Dent, Caryl Dawson, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Mike Jester, Laura
McGee, Anderson Scott, Mike Snell, Bruce von Stein
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey, Alva Moore, Susan Norman
Circulation Staff: David McCurry, William White
Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt
Production Staff: Kevin Horan
Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Lou Hamilton, Debra Jean Williams
Copy Editing: Christine Jackson

Letters

Women’s Concerns

To the Editor:
We would like to make a statement concerning the Women’s Concerns’ program on female sexuality. Because our purpose was to
emphasize communication among women, we limited the group to females. In our planning with the counselor, Sue Parry, we came
to this decision because 1) some women would feel more comfortable discussing their sexuality among women only and 2) the
counselor, in her previous discussions on sexuality, has found an initial program with only women, followed by a program with
both men and women, a very effective means for women to clarify their own values and to communicate them with
other women and men. As a follow-up, we also sponsored a program on male/female sexuality and relationships on December 6th.
Although aware of the rising concern, we feel the above reasons explain why we limited our event to females.

Beth Findlay
Carole Jolly

Holt, McGee Endorsed

To the Editor:
As the election for editor of The Davidsonian lies just ahead of us on Tuesday, the student body should recognize
the importance of the paper to the college community. As the primary media institution on campus, The Davidsonian wields great
influence over what issues get attention and how they are covered. The editors accept responsibility to publish informative articles to
the community. In the past year the quality of The Davidsonian has increased greatly, a reflection of the good leadership
it has enjoyed. We would like to see even further improvements in the coming year. We therefore support the candidacy
of Ross Holt and David McGee, who are running on the same ticket. Both have been deeply involved in improving
the paper this year (both in layout quality and in content), and are committed to pursuing quality journalism. They make
a strong team, for Ross has been active on the production side and Dave on the content matters. Their commitment
to the paper and their ability to complement each other make Dave and Ross highly attractive candidates. Please vote on
Tuesday.

Steve MacMillan
Nancy Rosselot
Pat Sellers

Dooosh!

To the Editor:
The other day I was walking on campus minding my own business, when I was rudely assaulted with a jet
stream of water coming from a car driving by. The four people in the car yelled “Dooosh!” (douche?) simultaneously, and
I was soaked to the skin. I cannot believe that such a deplorable act took place here at the fine
institution of Davidson College. I have heard of one other similar incident since then, so I know that I am
not alone. What can be done to put a halt to this obnoxious and demeaning behavior?

A concerned student,
Paul Price
