An Institution Retires

C. Shaw Smith built a Union over some three decades

By ROXANNA GUILFORD ’85

C. Shaw Smith is an institution. Granted, institution is an imposing term; it applies nonetheless. Smith has been a part
of the Davidson College community for nearly 45 years. For more than 30 of those years, C. Shaw Smith was
the Union. As its first and only director, Smith and the Union are almost synonymous. But being Director of the
College Union and Coordinator of Student Activities was not the first post Smith held at Davidson.

The Early Years

In 1940, a year after graduating, Smith returned to Davidson as Secretary of the YMCA. He held this office for
three years before he went on to earn his M.A. in English at Chapel Hill. Prior to accepting the job
at Davidson, he served as dean at Oak Ridge Military School for four years. He also taught English at Oak
Ridge, which he had attended before transferring to Davidson.

In September 1951, Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, assistant to the President, announced that Alumni Gymnasium would be transformed into the
Student Union by 1952. Spencer was close enough. In 1952, Smith became director of the nearly completed College Union. The
newly renovated building was dedicated in October at Homecoming and officially opened its doors in January 1953.

Smith had no precedent to follow, no reputation to uphold. Entering the situation cold, he defined the position of “Coordinator
of Student Activities.” In the Oct. 24, 1952 Davidsonian, Smith referred to himself as a “middleman and adviser.” As confidante
to the student body, he was not honor-bound to report any violations of the Honor Code. Neither did he have
any disciplinary authority. For those first few years, Smith had the dual role as overseer of the Union and general
counselor. He did his job so well that he was made regional representative of the Association of College Unions in
1955.

By 1956, the Union had become the “center of students’ informal life.” In the “Onion” or “the Stud” (two of
the sundry names said to refer to the Union), students could watch silent movies in the ballroom, play pool, eat,
or engage in conversations, intellectual and otherwise. Union-sponsored events included guest pool sharks, art exhibits, public readings, and a trip
to New York in conjunction with Queens College. Students began to have more involvement in Union activities. Committees were formed,
and the Union board developed. Entering the ’60s, the Union and Smith were both successes.

The Sixties

The decade opened with the Union’s publication of a complete school directory. “This Week in Davidson,” a guide to campus
events, also began publication. 1960 also saw the Union bookstore open its door for the first time. Of course, few
forgot that behind all the Union activities was C. Shaw Smith. An article in the Nov. 11, 1964 Davidsonian renewed
interest in this “master prestidigitator” who was “a virtuoso in the art of legerdemain.” The reporter was referring, of course,
to the fact that Smith was an accomplished magician. That previous summer, the entire Smith family had toured the country,
entertaining summer college students everywhere.

C. Shaw Smith spent very little time doing nothing. This was clearly reflected in his concern over time management. “We
must learn to use our leisure time in college.” He often stated that one purpose of the Union was to
help students use their leisure time wisely and advantageously. Smith began to see this goal met when, in 1964, the
social council of the Union was created. Working in conjunction with the Union Board, it helped develop many new programs
for the student body.

Diversity was the key of Smith’s reign, especially in the area of entertainment. Such varied fare as Marian Anderson, the
Lettermen, and Dionne Warwick performed at Davidson. Smith’s abundant connections and charm kept the famous and almost famous coming to
Davidson. Smith had a way with the agents: they never ran out of glowing comments forDavidson’s Union director. He was
termed an “innovator in entertainment” and a “master booker of professional entertainment” who was “a joy to work with.” Not
only was Smith a talent agent, placement director, Union head, and traveling magician; he was also the head of the
Southern College Placement Service in 1967. On top of all this, just the year before, Smith had started a nationwide
trend: campus coffeehouses. When the “Hungry D” opened in 1966, other schools, including Duke and UNC, quickly followed suit. Once
again, Smith had proven himself an “innovator in entertainment.”

Smith always remained very involved in his work. His attitude toward it was best expressed by Ed Embree, a former
Union Vice President. “Smith... is a firm supporter of the belief that one has to take his job serious —
but not himself.”

The sixties ended, like the fifties, on an upbeat. The Union was popular, as was Smith. Even more importantly, he
was respected, as was evidenced by his appointment in 1969 to the head of the Spence Commission on Social Patterns.

The Seventies and Eighties

One of the major issues of the early seventies was the sale of alcoholic beverages on campus. The Union Board
and the student senate jointly studied the feasibility of selling beer and wine at Davidson. Although not a regular drinker
himself, C. Shaw Smith was one of the strongest supporters of lifting the alcohol ban. He was also one of
the strongest defenders of keeping the on-campus sale of beer and wine. Later, when discussing this very issue and the
role of the 900 Room, Smith said, “I don’t know anyone who worked harder to keep this place open than
I have.”

In 1972, Smith, his Union, et al. were forced to move into the Guest House due to the construction of
the E. H. Little Library on the old Union site. The Guest House was only a temporary shelter for the
Union, however, because within the next few years, it would be relocated in the old Grey Library. Throughout this period
of transition, the Union continued to provide first-class student entertainment. Many of the performances were held in the bar, which
was located in the basement. There was, of course, always the concern of overextending the Union and its temporarily limited
resources.

In 1975, stability seemed in sight until Marc Menchel, the social chairman, resigned. He had few kind words for Smith
at the Union. He seemed, however, to be in the minority and was quickly replaced. Controversy reigned through 1976, when
it was discovered that the 900 Room budget was in deficit. While actual financial problems existed, the situation was aggravated
by a lack of communication between the Union and the Comptroller’s office. As an indirect result of these various issues,
by-laws were drafted to involve students, faculty, and administration in the events of the Union. Smith wanted to keep the
Union under the control of the Davidson campus community, not under his own authority.

The 1976-77 school year brought about changes in the 900 Room. Meal tickets were no longer accepted in payment for
beer, and alcohol could no longer be sold after 12:30 a.m. One of the reasons behind this was the purpose
of the 900 Room: to provide beer, not encourage its consumption.

Through the following years, the Union Board was renovated, changed, and rearranged in order to accommodate more student involvement. In
the last eight years, according to Smith, students have played an increased role, especially in the co-curricular area. Controversies over
beer sales, ID checks, student control, and so on always crop up (although with Slater’s departure, fewer beefs about the
meal plan arise). For the most part, however, the students seem pretty satisfied with the Union. Smith shares their confidence.
It has been this confidence, coupled with dedication, perseverance, and a sense of humor that have made C. Shaw Smith
and his Union a Davidson institution.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 February 1983 | 21
