4 Friday, April 15, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Nuclear Arms Statement

(Continued from page 1)

resolution which the American Academy of Religion passed without dissent last December. The text and signatures appear today in an
advertisement on page 8. Smith emphasized that the statement does not constitute a petition and is not designed to be
sent to any governmental bodies. “We want this to be an in-house statement,” he said. “By making this statement, we
hope it will raise consciousness and educational fora.”

Mahony stressed “three verbs important to the purpose of the statement.” The faculty members urge the College community “to join
with us” in rethinking assumptions; “to move with us” in reshaping common public vision in light of moral values; and
to “let us act now” in carrying out these convictions.” These verbs emphasize the unifying goal of the statement, Mahony
said.

Religion professor David Kaylor also sees the faculty statement as a unifier, pointing out that faculty members of all ages,
disciplines, and political backgrounds have signed it. The statement “reflects how widespread concern is to change the outlook of the
government,” he said.

Student Referendum Tuesday

Students will have the chance to vote on a statement identical to the faculty’s statement this Tuesday. Following rules outlined
by the SGA, junior Debby Williams and senior Hal Martin organized a petition to call for a student referendum concerning
the nuclear arms statement. They collected signatures from ten percent of the student body on Tuesday and Wednesday. With the
help of eighteen students, they met the requirement that at least ten percent of the student body call for the
referendum by collecting “at least 200 signatures,” according to Williams.

“With sufficient student support, the referendum will take place this Tuesday,” said Williams. The SGA will conduct the voting procedure
as in any election.

“We view the referendum as a natural progression in our efforts to educate the campus on the issue of nuclear
arms,” said Williams. Components of that educational process have included March’s Ground Zero Week which presented a talk by theologian
Ron Sider, a panel discussion with Lieutenant General Harry Griffith and Dr. Norris Frederick ’70, and a showing of Atomic
Café, said Williams. Also during that month, the Speakers’ Committee brought nuclear arms specialist Paul Walker.

“The main goal we’re trying to accomplish is to stimulate students to discuss the issue and to communicate seriously with
each other,” Williams said. “Through our efforts and the faculty’s response, I believe we are raising the consciousness of students.
This is just the first step in showing people that they can make an active and significant response to issues
they feel strongly about.”

Like the faculty statement, the student referendum will function as an “in-house statement of principle,” according to Williams. She hopes
the passage of the referendum will be a basis for continued student discussion and action. Williams said she and Martin
chose a referendum rather than a petition in order to give everyone an equal chance to express their opinions on
this issue.

The Academy Award-winning film If You Love This Planet will be shown at 8 p.m. in the 900 Room. N.C.
Director of SANE Norris Frederick will be available to answer questions about the referendum and the arms race in general.

DAVIDSON PLAZA SHOPPING CENTER

Wanted: The New York Times is looking for a person who commutes from Charlotte to Davidson each day Mon.-Fri. to
transport newspapers. The N.Y.T. is willing to pay gas expenses for this service. If interested please call Rick Dexheimer at
1-800-237-8698

Tuesday’s ReferendumStatement

We, the student body of Davidson College, express our support for the faculty “Statement on Nuclear Arms” which expresses to
the campus our combined “conviction that the use of nuclear weapons is contrary to the fundamental morals of humanity. We
call on all nations to halt immediately the production and deployment of first strike weapons, to initiate a worldwide freeze
on the production and deployment of nuclear weapons, to begin a staged reduction of present nuclear arsenals, and to work
toward the eventual abolition of all nuclear arms.”

We join the faculty in urging “all students, staff, and members of the college community to join us in rethinking
those assumptions about friend and enemy, peace and war, security and danger, life and death, that have brought us to
our present peril, and to move with us in reshaping our common public vision in the light of the moral
values we affirm. Together let us act now, before we become unwitting accomplices in the destruction of humanity.”

(This statement is a modified version of a resolution passed by the American Academy of Religion. It is identical to
the faculty statement.)

Exiles Visit
(Continued from page 1)

...is like the scene at the end of George Orwell’s 1984, when Winston Smith finally learns to “love big brother.”
From the time they are five years old, Pavlenkov said, Soviet children are made to “love Lenin.” When the children
are ten years old, he said, they are forced to play “militaristic games.” In high school they learn more military
skills, such as how to take apart and clean a rifle.

Pavlenkov said the American government has not yet extensively questioned him on Soviet life or politics. He had expected to
be greeted by FBI or CIA agents as soon as he arrived. But when they didn’t come, he wondered, “Where
is my paycheck?”

Pavlenkov, 23, grew up in Gorky and studied at an underground university in Estonia. He was arrested for writing an
article on Albert Camus which attacked the Soviet system. The government gave him the choice of ten years in prison
or exile. He left the U.S.S.R. three and a half years ago and is now a physics and computer student
at M.I.T. The Soviet government also sent his parents to America.

Kandror, 19, is a poet who grew up in Moscow. He and his family left the U.S.S.R. under the Jewish
immigration laws. The Soviet government does not tolerate Jews and encourages them to leave the country, he said. Kandror has
also lived in America for three and a half years.

Davidson Amnesty International sponsored Victor and Yan’s visit as a part of its efforts to educate the campus on human
rights struggles around the world. Amnesty International takes no stand on nuclear disarmament or other issues not directly related to
human rights.

Programs at home
Over 200 graduate and undergraduate courses
Approaches to Teaching Writing
English as a Foreign Language
Forensics Institute
Government Internships
High School Programs
Intercultural Training
Interpretation and Translation Institute
Language Courses
Literary Criticism
Washington Laboratory
Writers Conference

Sessions
Pre—May 23-June 17
First—June 7-July 9
8-Week Cross Session—June 7-July 29
6-Week Cross Session—June 27-August 5
Second—July 11-August 12

Programs abroad
Dijon, France—French
Leningrad, U.S.S.R.—Russian
Oxford, England—Business Administration
Quito, Ecuador—Spanish
Fiesole, Italy—Italian
Trier, West Germany—German
Greece—Life and Thought in Ancient Greece

Send more information:
Name
Address
ZIP

Call (202) 625-8106 or mail to:
SSCE—Georgetown University
306 Intercultural Center
Washington, D.C. 20057
