The Fabric of Our Society

Is there a place for economic justice?

By JOHN STANBACK ’83

Dr. Keith Martin brought home the importance of the interdisciplinary emphasis at Davidson last Wednesday night. In his capacity as
ordained Presbyterian minister, Dr. Martin first spoke at College Chaplain Charlie Summer’s Wednesday night worship service. The topics were religious
principles supporting government aid to the poor, and the “new” principles of the Reagan administration. An hour later Martin led
a discussion on the more technical aspects of Reaganomics for the Davidson Hunger Task Force, a group notable that evening
for its lack of student participation.

Dr. Martin’s remarks underscored just how much two meetings such as these do, or should, have in common.

A Harvard graduate and director of the Presbyterian Advocacy Project, Keith Martin answered a few questions for the Davidsonian.

Davidsonian: What is the state of economic justice in the U.S. today?

Martin: It is declining. We have never had a society where income distribution has been very equitable, and in the
last few years, the Reagan economic program has moved us even more in the direction of inequality. The poor have
had cuts in programs that they depend on, and at the same time the rich have had tax cuts.

Davidsonian: Dr. Martin, you are a member of the Inter-religious Task Force on Economic Justice. What can a group like
this, and the Church as a whole, do to improve economic justice?

Martin: We have several tasks. I certainly think we need to provide as many direct services as we can. The
church has always been deeply involved with that; in times of economic hardship we are called upon to do even
more. But the Church cannot pick up the gap that’s being left by the cut-back in government programs. The cuts
are too big, the numbers are too large, but even more significant, I don’t think the Church or any private
organization should be expected to provide these fundamental human necessities. This is a kind of thing that should be built
into the very fabric of society, and not be a matter of personal charity. The church also has a theological
task in society, that is, to lay out our vision of what a good society should look like and what
role the government should play.

Davidsonian: You mention a vision. What, in your opinion, is the vision of society espoused by the conservative economic policies
called Reaganomics?

Martin: I think that vision is a very competitive, survival-of-the-fittest, individualistic kind of vision where private charity is looked upon
to pick up the pieces of the victims.

Davidsonian: In your discussion you referred again and again to [former] budget director David Stockman. Do you feel that he
epitomizes in any sense the problems inherent in this administration?

Martin: I don’t think it can be blamed on any one person. He was in a very visible position the
first year, which he obviously relished. He’s carried a lot of the ideological freight of the administration; his view of
society and the government’s role simply reflects the administration’s view.

Davidsonian: You also mentioned earlier that the theoretical underpinnings of Reaganomics were not economic, but rather ideological. What do you
mean by that?

Martin: The major objective of the Reagan presidency is to shrink the role of the federal government in the domestic
sector of society, and that any kind of economic program that achieves that end is acceptable. The ideology is dictating
the economic program rather than the economic program informing the ideology. In other words, economic policy is internally contradictory. We
have a president who wanted to balance the budget now coming up with the largest deficits in the history of
the United States. Suddenly, he is no longer so concerned with deficits because his goal of increasing the military and
decreasing domestic spending is still more or less on target. The means to his end is an attack on the
federal government as an instrument of economic justice in our society.

Davidsonian: What does this country need?

Martin: We need to decide what we want to do with our collective economic might and wealth. This requires economic
planning. It can be decentralized, but planning is the key. We need an incomes policy with a ceiling as well
as whatever floor we have left. This needn’t involve a large bureaucracy. We need a community full employment policy, a
progressive tax system that raises more revenue than we are raising now. Our public sector is starved in this society.
It’s much smaller than in most industrialized countries, and if you look around, you find that the things that we
need in this country are things in the public domain—roads, bridges, sewers, educational systems, health care, etc. These are not
things that the private sector is going to accomplish. We need a real safety net, a much more generous floor
to meet the peoples’ basic needs so they have an opportunity to enter the mainstream of society and become productive.

SUMMER JOB OPENINGS FOR CAMP COUNSELORS at Camp Sea Gull (boys) and Camp Seafarer (girls).

Serving as a camp counselor is a challenging and rewarding opportunity to work with young people, ages 7-16.

Sea Gull and Seafarer are health and character development camps located on the coast of North Carolina and feature sailing,
motorboating, and seamanship, plus many usual camping activities including a wide variety of major sports.

Qualifications include a genuine interest in young people, ability to instruct in one phase of the camps' programs, and excellent
references. For further information and application, please write a brief resume of training and experience in area(s) skilled to Don
Cheek, Director, Camps Sea Gull/Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/28 January 1983

13
