10 Friday, April 8, 1983 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

Drinking Age Law

Davidson may not be a party school, but it still parties. Drinking saturates every aspect of this campus. A recent
Davidsonian poll suggests that 80 percent of Davidson students drink at some time or another. Though few Davidson students drink
only to get drunk, many drink for social reasons.

North Carolina’s proposed drinking age hike would hit Davidson students in their bellies. The law would affect three major aspects
of Davidson’s social life: the 900 Room, Patterson Court parties, and freshman halls. Nearly every freshman would be under age
if the state passed the law. How is the school going to regulate this large group?

Freshman year is a crucial time for socializing and becoming adjusted to the school. The law, if enforced to its
fullest extent, would make freshmen second-class citizens by alienating them from the mainstream of Davidson’s social life. Many freshmen will
feel the pressure to drink. Some of them will do it off campus. Some of them will do it in
their rooms. Should the hall counselors make daily checks for alcohol? Should they require freshmen to submit to a breathalyzer
test? Davidson must decide how it will enforce the state’s law independent of any judgment about the morality of the
law. Clearly, the College must take some stand on enforcement; it only remains to be seen what will be done.
Davidson may choose to strictly enforce the law and return to the mentality of the 1950s when drinking was forbidden
on campus. Or it may be more lenient. Whatever happens, the law cannot be ignored. Davidson will have to make
some decision.

When the Council on Campus and Religious Life decides Davidson’s position on the law, it should keep Davidson’s social life
in mind, making sure not to destroy what little life it has left. The College must find some way to
enforce the law without blitzing Davidson’s vitality.

Don't Talk, Listen

Good points arose from Professor Mary Thornberry’s talk on the double standard Monday night: a double standard does in fact
exist here in Davidson’s ivory tower; women as well as men perpetuate it; individual effort is essential to overcome this
general attitude. But Monday’s talk and ensuing discussion revealed a more disturbing point about Davidson: genuine dialogue here is a
rare commodity.

Perhaps the charged emotions concerning male/female relations at Davidson prevented easy discussion Monday night. The issue’s complexity may have precipitated
the frustrated outbursts and apparently irrelevant comments. Monday’s discussion was not unique in its lack of lucidity, however, for students
face the same phenomenon every day in class — talking at each other rather than to each other. So often,
the point vanishes as students revel in hearing themselves talk.

Most students here are ambitious to a certain degree; at this highly competitive school, the premium on proving competence and
equality to peers is great. Although many fail to participate in class discussion at all, others view the classroom as
a perfect forum for emphasizing their ability to match or surpass classmates. Discussion is supposed to spur thought, and it
is supposed to involve more than one party.

The solution is at once simple and challenging. Meaningful dialogue has its place; when the time for talk arises, acknowledge
the importance of your companions. As a liberal arts college recognizing the value of the individual, Davidson is a wonderful
place to realize one’s self-worth. Without caution, however, that can become all that one realizes.

"WHERE IS AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL WHEN I NEED IT?!"

LETTERS

More on Posters

[Editor's note: This letter came to The Davidsonian office addressed to the students of Davidson College.]

To the students of Davidson College:

I know of no way to reach the student population of Davidson College other than through The Davidsonian. So I
will use this avenue to express to you my dismay and anger over what I observed on your campus recently
during your elections for your governing officials. Everywhere I turned I saw campaign posters that had been literally mutilated.

My friends, in the real world, there are courts, jails, and mental institutions for citizens who perform such acts. At
Davidson, there is the Honor System. As the wife, daughter, niece, and aunt of Davidson graduates, I call on you,
if you have not already done so, to immediately report those responsible for these acts of vandalism.

Your personal integrity and the long tradition and undisputed reputation of Davidson College are at stake.

Mrs. Lenora Parker

Thanks

To the Editor:

The Y-Student Service Corps would like to thank the campus and the community for their support and participation in Y
Week of March 14-18. The Inner-Council Dinner owes its support to the Dean’s Office for the financial and moral support.
The Crop Dance-a-thon was a tremendous success due to the efforts of Beth Maczka. We raised $240.00 at the door
and expect to collect about $400 in pledges in the fight against world hunger. The PiKAs were generous in giving
their house for the occasion; Peregrine and Giorgio’s donated beer — many thanks to their establishments; the D.J.s were exceptional
— John Marks and Warren Gould receive our utmost appreciation for their talents; the band FRED graciously lent us their
equipment for the affair. For this and much more we thank all those who helped, all those who were involved,
and the entire Davidson Campus.

Thanks,
Y-Student Service Corps

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from our readers. We require that letters be signed and include the author’s address and phone
number. All letters must be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday. We reserve the right to edit letters for
length and clarity. The Davidsonian does not in any way endorse the opinions expressed in the letters it prints.
