6 Friday, April 29, 1983 / The Davidsonian FEATURES

Notes, Notes, Forsooth, and Nothing

Shakespearean Seminar Broadly Defined

By THURSTON HATCHER

The actors bring Act III, Scene 3 of *Much Ado About Nothing* to a close. As they settle back down
in the pews of Lingle Chapel, Cynthia Lewis-Stanfield cuts in. “That scene still needs a bit of pace,” she says.
“Let's be careful not to rush your speeches.”

Everyone's a part of the “Performing Shakespearean Comedy” seminar. Throughout this broadly-defined seminar, the seventeen students have been combining their
creative abilities and ideas to produce the Shakespearean play. But there's been more to producing *Much Ado* this time for
this troupe of classmates — it’s as much an academic as a practical experience.

“When the class presents the play in May,” says Lewis-Stanfield, “the audience will see only a small portion of what
the class has learned throughout the term. The course doesn’t emphasize the final performance. Instead, it stresses the intellectual and
social processes leading to that performance.”

The course stresses the social and intellectual processes leading to the performance.

The students spent the first four weeks of the term reading, researching, and discussing the play itself and learning about
the Elizabethan concept of theatre, the Shakespearean stage, and the history of drama to 1600. Lewis-Stanfield prefers to consider her
role in this class not as one of a director or lecturer but rather as a counselor or mentor of
sorts. This enables everyone involved in the class to feel that they are a group of equally capable participants contributing
to the final product. Says Amy Burton, “She’s so in it with us — she’s one of us.”

The composition of the class allows it to work together effectively: some of the students are proficient in theatrical aspects
of production, while others more capably deal with literary interpretation. “We have the right combination of backgrounds,” says Lewis. She
didn't even realize the extent of the class members’ diversity. Senior John Krotchko, for example, has used his art abilities
to create set pieces in a genuine Elizabethan style.

Approaching Shakespeare in such an in-depth manner, the class has gained additional insight into the many levels of his approach.
“It’s definitely a unique experience to stage Shakespeare,” says Krotchko. “You can do it in so many different ways and
there’s so much leverage with the way you interpret your character.”

When the students finally present *Much Ado About Nothing*, the comedy of love, deceit, and mistaken identities at 7 p.m.
May 6 and 2 p.m. May 8 in Lingle Chapel, they will have accomplished more than what the audience members'
eye might detect. They will have learned and attempted to put into practice what the actual Elizabethan production would have
been like aside from all the preconceived notions that have developed over the years.

Clearly, most of these obstacles to teaching Shakes...

By Ann Hunter

Benedick (John Marks with plant) notes unwittingly his own duping by unseemly nobles (Roy Fuller, Doug Vass, Eric Fichtner)

Lewis-Stanfield Brings Class

By PROF. CYNTHIA LEWIS-STANFIELD

Some time ago I spent a solitary year writing my dissertation in my very own ivory tower. It wasn’t exactly
white, my tower, but it was at least located in Belmont, Massachusetts — a coincidence in which I took great
delight, since I was writing about Shakespeare's Portia, inhabitant of Belmont, Italy.Quickly learned, however, that joy in such clever literary
details doesn't last; no sooner had I observed that Portia’s hometown bore the same name as my own than I
heard myself respond, “So what? Big deal.” So gradually waned my enthusiasm toward having a whole year alone in my
ivory tower to write about Shakespeare. What I had initially considered an ideal setting for scholarship appeared increasingly limited, confining,
and cut off from Shakespeare. For neither my tower nor my mind’s eye provided a stage on which I could
visualize the plays in their three-dimensionality. I could theorize to my literary heart’s content, but I had not been trained
to see the plays as the performed works they are surely intended to be. Even before I descended from my
tower, I knew that my limited knowledge of Shakespearean production and my puny visual imagination were far from exceptional. Shakespeare
scholars in universities everywhere have traditionally discouraged their students from marrying the literary and the theatrical in approaching Shakespeare. Why?
For reasons both sensical and ludicrous. Our scant historical knowledge, for instance, prevents us from reconstructing a pure “Shakespearean theater.”
Hence, Shakespeareans often argue, attempts to recapture the original Elizabethan spirit in today’s productions are doomed from the start. But
less plausible objections to teaching Shakespeare as theater abound. Many scholars falsely feel superior to theatrical concerns; others fear their
ignorance of the theater; still others have simply become habituated to treating drama as literature from Ivory Tower to Stage.

That is why seventeen Davidson students are presently learning about Shakespeare through producing Shakespeare. Our seminar, entitled “Performing Shakespearean Comedy,”
centers on producing Much Ado About Nothing. Yet the course does not emphasize the final performance. Rather, it stresses the
intellectual and social processes leading to that performance. On May 6 and again on May 8, the class will present
the play, but I believe at that time the audience will see only a small portion of what the class
will have learned throughout the term. Come early May, the class will have spent nine weeks approaching a single Shakespearean
play from nearly every conceivable angle. The students will have taken four weeks for reading, researching, and discussing the play
itself and for exploring such topics as the Elizabethan concept of theater, the Shakespearean stage, and the history of drama
to 1600. How did Elizabethan actors get along without a director? What kind of people went to see Shakespeare's plays
in the sixteenth century? How did Elizabethan actors achieve intimacy with their audience? To what extent and in what ways
can the production of Shakespeare today reflect the spirit of Shakespeare's time? Having discussed these and many other questions, the
class will have begun, by the fifth week of the term, to incorporate their views into an actual production. The
five weeks before performance time will have involved rehearsals handled much as seminar meetings: the students will have worked together,
scene by scene, to interpret the play in the full three dimensions it deserves. They will have had no director
— no lecturer — but only a seminar teacher to guide them and be guided by them. Each class member
will have prepared a part, served on the crew, and helped to shape the whole experience. Come early May, the
participants in English 212 will have truly inherited a Shakespearean play whose title: Much Ado About Nothing, will by then
surely seem ironical.
