Friday, November 11, 1983 / The Davidsonian

OPINIONS

The Bells Toll For Me
John Ramsey

I recently read an article in The Davidsonian complaining about the bells in DCPC which ring four times an hour. How sad, I thought, that someone could not enjoy the beautiful tones because he was preoccupied with the fact that they signify the passage of time. I love bells. My church at home has a beautiful carillon of fifteen bells, which are played every Sunday. I would always wait after church to hear them, and I always felt uplifted having heard them. So when I came to Davidson, I was delighted to find that instead of hearing bells once a week, I could hear them, when I was within hearing range, four times every hour. For me, the dulcet sounds complement the beauty of the campus, especially now, with the trees turning their vibrant shades and the chilly breezes blowing. It seems perfectly Autumn. How sad, then, that someone cannot enjoy such music because it marks the passage of time. I know that when I hear the church bells it has been fifteen minutes since I last heard them. If the writer of the last article is not constantly aware of the time in class, especially during lectures, he is certainly atypical of the students I know, at least the ones with watches. And I have never had a class stop because of the church bells. I seldom hear them unless the windows are open, and even then only when no one is talking. If we can continue discussions without a break through the jarring buzzer that ends class (as we often do), we certainly can handle the DCPC bells. The previous writer must have a very short attention span if it takes only the mellow sounds of bells to break all concentration.

Using time to measure one’s life is like using Eliot's coffee spoons. There is a limit to life; we all have a certain amount of it, and then we die. Within such a limit there are infinite possibilities for living — not just existing, but truly living. For me, knowing that time has passed encourages me to use the rest of my time in ways that make my life, and hopefully the lives of others, fuller. We should never try to escape the limit of time; we should acknowledge the limit and then work within it to achieve fuller lives. I find it almost tragic that someone would try to run away from the inescapable. Time, like death, is one of the few unchangeables of life. Accept it, and then move on. The bells in DCPC are beauty and help me, at least, to see beauty; when I walk back from the post office I hear them ring, I stop for a moment, and listen, and look, and I hear and see beauty around me, and I am refreshed. I ask not for whom the bells toll, they toll for me.

Ramsey is a freshman from Charlotte, N.C.

American Ideology And American Action
Keith Revell

I would like to raise a few questions concerning U.S. policy in Latin America. Primarily, I intend to examine whether American actions are consistent with American ideology, with American claims to justice and with American criticism of the Soviet Union. The current administration views the present crisis in the area in terms of an East-West conflict: the Soviets and their representatives versus the United States and all the freedom-loving people of Latin America. It is a battle between the bad guys versus the good guys, oppression versus freedom, authoritarianism versus democracy. This view is nothing new; virtually every administration since World War II has seen things in these terms, and, without further justification, claimed a right to intervene — either with aid, military training, political and economic pressure or support, or simply sending in the Marines. This happened in Iran, Vietnam, Korea, and a variety of times in Latin America. Seeing as this has been and still is a key aspect of our foreign policy throughout the world, it surely merits some brief investigation with respect to the present problems in the Caribbean. It is unfortunate that it does not suffice to ask the question, “Are the Soviets expanding into Latin America?” Perhaps this will do for half-witted politicians, over-eager (and similarly witted) military leaders, or bellicose citizens for whom the world can still be seen in terms of black and white. Certainly the Soviets are exercising their power in Latin America; we do (and have for nearly a century). The key question is, “Why are they there?” Unfortunately, it does not help to answer withthe familiar world domination rhetoric. The United States is a larger and more important chunk of land than El Salvador, so why not start a revolution here? The reason is obvious: the conditions for a revolution exist in El Salvador, not in the United States. The Soviets did not create those conditions, or the ones in Nicaragua, or Grenada, or Guatemala, or Honduras. Revolutionaries do not create the conditions for revolution; they capitalize on them. At this point, it is necessary to examine very carefully how the present circumstances in Latin America came to be. By addressing only the current manifestations of problems with specific and complex historical and structural origins, the United States will never move beyond “crisis management” to problem-solving.

America has exercised powerful influence in the region since the Spanish-American War, a conflict that was developed and encouraged by U.S. citizens. If an external force can be held responsible for the conditions in Latin America, the first candidate is not the Soviet Union, nor is it Cuba. A better approach, however, is to review the history of the region, paying particular attention to the structural relationships between the U.S. and Latin American countries. Setting aside these topics for the moment, let’s look just briefly at why it is better for us to exercise influence over the area rather than the Soviets. More specifically, how do we justify our intervention in Grenada and our support of the contras in Nicaragua?

It might be suggested that we Americans represent good things such as freedom, national and personal self-determination, justice, truth (remember the cherry tree), and various other things that the Soviets don’t know the meaning of. Thus, by protecting Latin American nations from the Soviet grasp, we allow them to have all the rights and privileges that go along with these things. We may have to invade a country now, but that’s only to make it safe for democracy. Later on, these nations will be able to determine their own destinies, choose their own allies, and elect whatever government they like. Apparently, this is not the line of reasoning we use to justify our intervention and influence in contrast to the Soviets. History reveals a very different view of U.S. action in the area.

We supported terribly oppressive and unjust regimes in Nicaragua, Cuba, Guatemala, and various other countries (Iran, for instance) for many years. Anastasio Somoza ruled Nicaragua for nearly thirty years with continuous U.S. approval and support. The U.S. planned, directed, and financed the overthrow of Jacobo Arbenz in Guatemala. We supported “Baby Doc” Duvalier in Haiti and then supported rebel forces in Nicaragua because the Sandinistas chose the wrong ally to run an oppressive regime with. Currently, there is little or no dissent in Guatemala because it has been eliminated by an American-backed military regime; there is no dissent in Cuba either.

One might argue that later on we will ask the oppressive dictators in Latin America to be democratic and respect human rights. There is no precedent for this in the history of our involvement in the area. Look how long Somoza was in power. We cannot justify present oppression with promises of future freedom; the Soviets can make the same claims. There is no reason for Latin Americans to believe, as we seem to, that we will keep our promises or that oppression under U.S. guidance is somehow qualitatively better than that under the Soviets. The Latin Americans do have reason to believe that all we offer is an alternative tyranny. At least under Soviet-type authoritarian rule, everyone has enough to eat; this is a powerful argument to starving peasants. If nothing else, we need to make our actions consistent with our claims. If we have eliminated any ideological grounds as a justification for our policies, we might at least avoid hypocrisy. If we promise something, let’s deliver it.

It seems also that our East-West characterization is in some respects a self-fulfilling view. If we always see a nation as either on our side or on the Soviet’s side, this leaves no room for non-alignment or for mixed governments. A country that has good relations with the Soviets is not necessarily one of their satellites. A free country should be able to decide from whom it seeks aid or alliance. If we offer only oppressive dictatorships as our alternative, leaving no room for moderate reformist or socialist governments, then the choices become status quo or radical reformism, i.e., revolution.

Revell is a junior economics major from Miami Lakes, FL.