The Davidsonian/Friday, October 21, 1983

Publish Or Perish

(Continued from page 1)

Faculty research time figures into the College’s commitment to teaching. “Teaching comes first, and I think that’s right,” said Nelson. “A person actively involved in research is going to be a better teacher,” Biology department chairman John Williamson said. “The best teachers have a serious engagement with their fields. They want to be on the frontier of their field, and that lends excitement to their teaching,” Zimmermann said.

Some faculty members question the College’s policy that professors must teach six courses and perform administrative duties while trying to find time for research. “Six courses a year is heavy” when trying to write a book, history professor Peter Krentz said. He said he finds little time for research during the year. Shi said he faces a similar problem and said the College should consider in the future the possibility of lighter teaching loads or reduced administrative work for professors involved with concrete projects. “The College should be mature in recognizing this issue,” Shi said. Religion professor Alexander McKelway echoed this sentiment.

Dr. David Shi said, “Preoccupation with committee work and classes does bite into research time.” He suggested that Davidson tends to emphasize duties which are not central to teaching but are nonetheless time-consuming. “The emphasis upon availability to students is not essential, and it tends to make it harder to be perceived as a good teacher,” he said.

Tenure and Publishing

The College has no uniform policy concerning the importance of publishing in tenure decisions except for the requirement that faculty be involved in research, Zimmermann said. The Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures has no quota on the amount of publishing required for the College to grant tenure. “In the matter of publication, quality will be deemed more significant than quantity,” it reads. However, when tenure decisions are made during a professor’s sixth year, the Code says that “the candidate will submit an updated curriculum vitae, including a bibliography, copies of published books and articles, and all such materials as may be deemed helpful to a favorable consideration.”

“The Administration’s stance is exactly the right one,” Nelson said, and he emphasized that it would be a mistake for the College to set quotas on quantity as some larger universities do. Shi agreed that Davidson tries to recognize the quality of research and not quantity. “There’s no ambiguity about that,” he said. However, Shi said, the College’s position on the importance of publishing is a subtle one. “The Administration’s attitude is more frustrating for some. They [professors] sense pressure but aren’t sure what the pressure means,” he said. McKelway called tenure “a spur to produce more than one wants to produce or is even beneficial to produce.”He said that the pressures may cause junior faculty to publish prematurely, not contributing much to their career.

The New Guard

Because younger faculty members face the challenge of earning tenure in a crowded profession, some professors perceive a split between senior and junior faculty in attitudes toward publishing’s importance. “There could be a tension between younger and older faculty,” Shi said, claiming that younger faculty are subject to different standards of evaluation than the older faculty were. If professors are not granted tenure, they must have something to prove to another college that they are worthy of tenure; being a good teacher while not pursuing research is no longer enough to guarantee a job at a college. Williamson emphasized the difference between evaluating professors now and in the past, and also observed that Davidson is not unique in this difference. “If you put the older half of the professors through the current process of evaluating professors, most wouldn’t have passed the process,” he said. Many would not have been hired in the first place, he said, and some of the hired professors would not have made tenure.

Soccer Game (Continued from page 1)

with members of the Faculty, though he had not heard about the student petition. Johnston said, “I thought since it was a big College day [Parents’ Weekend], they should be able to use the field.” Slagle said there were also logistical problems in using Richardson Stadium. The field has no soccer goals, and Slagle’s players are unfamiliar with the field. Slagle has received no complaints about seating for soccer games. Three sets of bleachers are broken, but Slagle hopes to get new bleachers in time for the Nov. 5 game.

Faculty Evaluations (Continued from page 1)

Zimmermann and President Spencer rejected it on the grounds that it was “not of sufficient value as an instrument of faculty evaluation to warrant the time and extra assistance which would be necessary to process and read approximately 3,000 individual forms per term.” Faculty members were urged to use some type of student evaluation on their own while the search continued for what Zimmermann called “a system which will speak to student opinion as to quality of teaching in a form which is usable.” Religion professor Alexander McKelway said that the faculty is looking for “a quickly perused device that still expresses student opinion well. There are any number of possibilities.”

The Professional Affairs Committee is a committee consisting of five faculty members selected by the faculty which is “responsible for overseeing issues which bear upon the professional work of the faculty.” It is also responsible for “protecting the faculty’s interest in the issue of faculty evaluation.” The PAC will meet with Zimmermann next Thursday to continue discussion about the possible methods of student input. McKelway said, “There is an unfortunate interpretation of this whole thing that is quite untrue and quite unfair. That is, that the faculty voted down the ICES forms in order to avoid student criticism.” He said that actually the prose form that the faculty adopted would subject them to more open and harsh criticism.

In an investigation this summer, the PAC surveyed the methods that 21 colleges, such as Williams, and William and Mary use to acquire student input for the evaluation of their faculties, to see which ones would best suit us. They found that the ICES forms were out of line with the methods of most of the schools. Most of them use prose devices, with stress on alumni opinion and letters solicited from randomly selected students. McKelway stressed the fact that “they [the PAC] were not just sitting around, satisfied with the situation.”