The Davidsonian / Friday, April 8, 1983

Alcohol Integral Part of Campus Social Life

By DAN VOORHIS

Seventy-five Davidson students were surveyed at random last week on their drinking habits. Results show that almost 90 percent of
students polled drink at least occasionally. More significantly, most of those students drink for social reasons. This raises the question
of the function of alcohol on campus.

“For the party atmosphere, some people need alcohol. People expect it,” said Pi Kappa Alpha social chairman Steve Reardon. “Some
have just as good a time without, but for a lot of people I guess it’s kind of a crutch.”

The poll suggests that most students consume a moderate amount, two to four drinks, and do not seek to get
drunk. “Drinking is part of a Patterson Court party,” said PAX president Drew Wells, “but one must recognize the non-drinking
group and provide alternative beverages.”

Reardon and Wells said their houses provide the types of social events the members of their organizations want. Those who
like to drink join a house where others drink, said Reardon. Most people polled agreed that responsibility lies with the
individual rather than the institution and would not change the present form of Court parties. Those who do not want
to drink do not have to. Most of those asked downplayed the effects of social pressure as the origin of
much drinking.

“Your attitudes toward drinking started when you were little,” said junior Dick Lee, “being in college is just the culmination.
Freedom is the only difference.”

When asked whether Davidson social events placed too much stress on drinking, about 25 percent replied yes. Dean of Students
Will Terry agreed. “Drinking is not necessary but it is inevitable,” said Terry.

Terry suggested measures in his last “Dean’s Outbasket” newsletter to reduce the alcoholic aspects of social events. He asked for
alternative beverages and food at parties and urged “more creativity to cut down on the guzzling. Anything to excess should
be discouraged.”

This poll was conducted the week of April 8. Seventy-four students were asked the following questions, and the figures listed
below represent the rounded percentages:

Why do you drink?
- Social: 59%
- Relaxation: 23%
- With food: 13%
- Drunk: 3%
- Other: 2%

How often do you drink?
- Less than once a month: 10%
- 1/month: 19%
- 1/week: 23%
- More: 48%

How much do you drink on the average?
- 1 drink: 15%
- 2 drinks: 26%
- 3 drinks: 31%
- 4 drinks: 12%
- 5 or more: 17%

How often do you get drunk?
- Never: 31%
- Less than 1/month: 27%
- 1/month: 24%
- 1/week: 9%
- More: 9%

The College’s official policy is that “it will not officially encourage drinking,” a hands-off policy which began only in 1969.
Previously neither students nor faculty were permitted to drink on or off campus. “These parties now are considerably toned down;
that’s because of peer pressure,” said Terry. “Students used to get killed returning to campus drunk,” he said.

Terry believes that school policy is much less hypocritical than it used to be. “People drink more in society, so
they should be allowed to on campus,” he said. Vandalism and violence are products of drunkenness, but only a few
get that way, according to Officer Wayne King. Most people either drink moderately or are inoffensively intoxicated.

Drinking-Age and Campus (Continued from page 1)

Freshman Halls

“We are working on a policy for the freshman halls,” said Freshman Advisor Katie Dagenhart. Although there are no definite
guidelines yet, Dagenhart said the College could not sponsor hall parties serving alcohol if the age is raised. Patterson Court
Council President and Freshman Advisor Rob Spaugh recognizes that there “definitely has to be some kind of change,” but he
hopes it won’t affect social life on the Court. Freshman halls will “work toward non-alcohol related mixers,” said Spaugh, even
though stopping drinking on freshman halls is impossible. He said he can only speculate about what the school’s actual policy
for freshman halls will be.

900 Room

Ross feels that the 900 Room will be the aspect of social life most affected. Because the College runs it,
the law will have to be strictly enforced. “It’s important to have a place where the College can sponsor and...regulate
the consumption of alcohol,” said Ross. “A lot of students are going to drink,” said Ross. “The question is where,
with whom, and to what extent. A place like the 900 Room can regulate that. It will be distressing if
that is affected.”

Union Director Shaw Smith said the Union will set its policy after the CCRL deliberates on the new law. He
said that the Union’s guidelines will ultimately depend on “what students come up with.” Smith “isn’t against anything that saves
lives,” but he wonders how the law will affect the 900 Room. “How can you keep a room open and
exclude a large portion of the student body?” he asked.

Smith said the Union has had no problems with 17-year-olds in the 900 Room, because there are few of them
on campus. But trying to keep 19-year-olds out of the 900 Room will be more difficult. Because so many people
will be tempted to break the law, he hopes that the law won’t breed a disregard for law itself.

The Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC) licenses the college to serve beer and wine in the 900 Room. The ABC checks
up on the college periodically. Smith thinks the ABC would become “more vigilant” once the law goes into effect. Smith
said that the 900 Room would close if North Carolina raises its drinking age to 21.

The law's effect on Patterson Court parties “would depend on what the administration says,” said Rusk President Sherri Lind. Emanon
President Caroline Boudreau agrees. “We would probably have to be more careful when serving beer, but we would follow the
administration’s guidelines.”

BY KELLY SUNDBERG

Keeping 18-year-olds from drinking is not the driving force behind the pending North Carolina State Legislature bill which would raise
the legal age for consumption of beer and wine to 19. The bill resulted from proposals made by the Governor’s
Task Force on Drunken Driving. Accordingly, the bill focuses on changing “driving under the influence” (DUI) laws. The DUI bill
includes four major points:

—Redefining the crime. The existing standard of driving while “appreciably impaired” would be replaced by “impaired driving,” applicable when the
driver registers a .10 percent blood alcohol content (BAC) level on a Breathalyzer machine or shows signs of impaired physical
or mental faculties.

—Changing rules of evidence to facilitate DUI convictions technically. Breathalyzer test results would be admissible without the operator’s presence being
required.

—Eliminating plea bargaining. The lesser crime of “driving recklessly after drinking,” which currently carries no automatic driver’s license suspension, would
be eliminated.

—Enacting stiffer penalties. A driver’s license would be immediately revoked for 10 days if he registers .10 percent BAC.

The pending legislation mirrors a national mood. Since 1980, 38 states have formed DUI task forces similar to North Carolina’s.
Drunken driving is also a primary concern for North Carolinians. A recent Charlotte Observer poll found that a majority of
state residents felt that North Carolina legislators should make DUI legislation their top priority.

Public opinion also supports raising the legal drinking age. A recent poll found that 61 percent of North Carolina adults
would like to see the age for beer and wine raised to 21. Twelve other states have already raised their
legal drinking ages. Statistically, life expectancy for Americans aged 16 to 24 has decreased in the last 20 years as
highway death tolls have increased. The number of DUI-related teenage deaths increased significantly when many states lowered legal drinking ages
in the 1970s.

The rationale behind raising the drinking age for beer and wine to 21 is that one can get just as
drunk on beer and wine as on liquor—alcohol is alcohol. If 18, 19, and 20-year-olds have more trouble obtaining alcohol,
they will drink, drive drunk, and die less. The legislature’s bill entails changing the drinking age only to 19, however.
Some observers have raised questions about that portion of the DUI legislation. First, enforcing a drinking age of 19 may
prove impossible on college campuses. Second, raising the drinking age to 19 does not protect an 18-year-old from an older
drunk driver.
