The Davidsonian

Friday, March 25, 1983

Spring Brings Birds, Flowers, IMAC

As everyone well knows, it is spring in the Piedmont. The birds chirp noisily, the flowers bloom majestically, and the
beer flows freely. Things are looking up if we can avoid the gibberish concerning the death penalty, nuclear proliferation, and
the multitudes of heathens now starving in Kenya. For those who would rather kick back with a cold beer and
go angling for lunkers or perhaps catch some rays or even check out the NCAAs, this week’s column is for
you. For those offended by the third sentence and unable to interpret the fourth, please waste no time praying for
our wicked souls.

This is softball season, the all-American sport requiring strength, skill, and a beer belly. Now a look at this year’s
teams to beat:

Jerry’s Kids: This ragtag assortment of ineptitude returns hoping to capture the elusive George Greer Cup. Steve “Imac Czar” Soud,
whose undying loyalty to the Baltimore Orioles has made him Jim Palmer’s heir apparent to do Jockey Shorts ads, serves
as team manager, mentor, and mascot (which gives some indication as to how well the poster children should fare). Peter
“Go Red Sox” Burr will attempt this year to slide into the bases without breaking a toe. John Norwood, who
plays with the speed and dexterity of Frontis Johnston, should contribute nothing. Dave Earnhardt, whose athletic quick wit won him
last year’s “Pat Ewing Think-Alike Award,” also returns. The team’s only strong points seem to be the off-season acquisitions of
Kenny Wilson, Bill Polack, and Ron Schumer (who grew up playing the game among the four-wheel drives, chewin’ tobaccy and
good ol’ boys of Southern Georgia).

Old Men: This band of senile and decrepit has-beens returns much to the chagrin of any softball enthusiast. Charlie Slagle,
who narrowly avoided injury in the off-season (he was accidentally mistaken for a leviathan by a retired whaling captain from
Nantucket), announced that his team has everything: strength, speed, and Cora Nelson as head cheerleader. Peter Hess has taken time
off from his “Re-elect Ronald Reagan” campaign to help out, and Lou Ortmayer and Tom Kazee (who are among the
signers of the New Right Manifesto published in this week’s National Review) should beef up the ranks. John Kelton, in
a state of euphoric bliss following John Verdi's graduation, is expected to play stellar defense if he can snap out
of his catatonia.

The Embassy: The Embassy has moved off campus for two reasons: (1) To train intensely hoping to earn one last
athletic accolade, and (2) to plan and implement the overthrow of Bob Building and those humorless crybabies from Duke dorm
who failed to realize that boys will be boys. Kenny Hovet, Stan Klinger, Andy Leeper, Mark Hartman and company can
knock the cover off the ball and play defense with the best of them. However, with the loss of spiritual
leader Micky Dillon, one must ask if this team has the heart to win it all.

Masterbatters: The reigning champs must not be overlooked. The Hoddy House can this year become the first team in decades
to capture IMAC’s elusive triple crown of flickerball, B-ball, and softball. Hoping to attain their goal, Ken Murrah and Hall
Barnett have followed a rigorous training schedule. Ken climbs the stairs of Knox Dorm loyally to keep in shape, and
Hall, through sheer perseverance, can now beat Wendell Washington by a whole second in the 40. A question of controversy
surrounding Stork’s eligibility might hamper the Hoddy’s chances. It seems he played catch with Al Baldwin sometime during his sophomore
year. Cliff Tribus and John Carroll will move from the confines of Johnston Gym to take their respective stations on
the softball diamond. Rounding out the squad is Buck “I’m always welcome at the Pika House” Bradberry and Dave Carr.

Among other teams which warrant serious consideration is the Blencher Renchers. Here J.C. Faulkner will prove his athletic ability transcends
dancing on the tables at Ham and Eggs and Doug Henson will take time from his inquisition of Steve Soud
to play a little ball. Bone can also now be taken seriously, since Kevin “Rocket Wrist” Attar has peddled his
services to the Wildcat nine.

In this week’s softball action Jerry’s Kids swept a doubleheader, with a 16-6 pounding over the aptly named Losers. Pollock
hurled a 14-0 shutout in the nightcap over the Unknowns, who may turn out to be the Le Team of
softball. The Masterbatters upended the old folks in a forfeit, setting up their game with the kids on Sunday. The
fun guys at KA managed to outplay their own pledges, for what may be their only win all year.

Away from the fields of IMAC, the inaugural swimming meet went off with a bang. Swimmers Ex and the Wet
Heads battled it out to a tie; but the real news was Ann Hunter and Laura Taft. His Emperialness the
Royal Soud says congrats to Felix Gerdes and John Storey for organization. Meets are Fridays at 3:00, and with a
crew like the Titanics and the Killer Trout, how could anyone help but have fun?
