The Davidsonian/Friday, April 8, 1983

Music Glance Pays Tribute to Singles

By JONATHAN GLANCE

In honor of Spring Frolics, I thought I’d pay tribute to that great American institution — the Single. In its
purest form, this little 7-inch disc of vinyl became the voice of all the little bands who didn’t have enough
songs for an album. A single should be kind of dumb (to appeal to DJs and the masses), fairly short
(under four minutes works best), and annoying enough to be catchy (like those drug store jingles you always hum). The
three singles under this week’s scrutiny are radically different but describe the boundaries of the genre quite well. Warning: in
the course of writing this review I listened to each single at least five times in a row; remember that
I am a trained professional, so don’t attempt this in your own home.

Trio: “Da Da Da”

The greatest single of the year — maybe of all time! This unlikely 45 from the Fatherland of Pop Kultur
redefines minimalism while parodying itself. One guitar, one drum, one Casio, two languages on one record! “Da Da Da” went
to number one all over Europe for the simple reason that after you’ve heard it once you’ve got to hear
it again (the mark of a truly great single). Of course, repeated listenings can reduce you to a state of
twitching incapacitation, but that’s cool too. In a day and age when the novelty record is something of a, well,
novelty, Trio looks to be a front runner for the ‘Headhunter & the Cannibals ‘Land of a 1,000 Dances’ Award”
for 1983. As if to show that the B side of a single never really mattered anyway, the flipside of
the English/German version is in German/English. A song that can be sung along with, danced to, laughed at, but never
ignored — “Da Da Da” never rises above joyous mindlessness and a great beat. Well Mr. Clark, I'll give this
one a 99, I just, uh, liked the beat and could dance to it, you know? Uh huh, uh huh,
uh huh.

Thomas Dolby: “She Blinded Me with Science”

From the opening synth chords to the fading drum computer beats, this single leads the listener through the eclectic weirdness
of one Thomas Dolby (ex-keyboardist for Lene Lovich and now freelance eccentric), a man whose wall of confusion is in
direct contrast to Trio’s desert of space. This one raises some questions, like where did that old man come from
and what is this Frankenstein fable on vinyl supposed to mean? With lyrics like “When I’m dancing close to her
/ I can smell the chemicals / It’s poetry in motion / And now she’s making love to me /
The spheres are in commotion / The elements in harmony,” it is hard to figure out what planet Dolby’s from
— you feel like you’re eavesdropping on some late show from Out There. However, a bit of mystery always made
for a good single, so I’m not complaining. And is that a theremin solo I thought I heard? Oh, just
an artificial one, like most of the sounds. Well, nobody blends artifice and reality as effortlessly as Thomas Dolby. A
metaphysical party disc for the Eighties, no less, and a great David Byrne imitation to boot, with lots of halts
and glides and bumps. Slip this one on to your next disco, and watch things happen out there.

Duran Duran Flawed with Slickness

By JOHN EDWARDS

Duran Duran is the biggest of the wave of euro-electro-disco-pop. This type of music seems to be the up and
coming thing in America — it is new and European sounding (although not necessarily European), making it “cool”, yet slick
and harmless enough to be accepted in a country which has heard so many comparisons between the volatile British music
scene and the stale American scene, and doesn’t know what to do about it. Bands like Duran Duran and Flock
of Seagulls are filling the gap by providing a dance alternative to funk and a listening alternative to hard-pop-rock which
is not excessively adventurous.

Rio was released almost a year ago, quickly rising to the top of the English charts, due in good part
to the acclaim for their first album (untitled). The same ingredients which made it popular in Britain are responsible for
its success in America — sharp melodies, slick production, tight harmonies, and especially, danceability. The drum and synthesizer/bass rhythm in
the background coupled with strong melodies and enough guitar to make it sound like rock in the foreground make for
excellent disco music. The melodies and “produced” harmonies are this band’s strong points. Duran Duran writes quite good pop songs,
notably “Rio”, “Hold Back the Rain”, and “Save A Prayer”, although none of the songs are appreciably worse than the
rest, except for “Hungry Like the...Wolf’. (Why do bands release the worst song on an album as the single?) The
harmonies give the songs an urgency which propels both the tunes and the dance. There is some question as to
where the knob fiddling stops and the singing begins, however. The lyrics on Rio evoke ambiguous feelings. On the one
hand, they are meaningless, trivial, and sometimes forced, but on the other hand, the stream-of-consciousness effect is quite interesting. Besides,
who needs meaningful lyrics in dance music anyway — they just get in the way. Slickness is Duran Duran’s downfall.
The band is personality-less, not too bad a fault in itself, but it is a trait stemming from overproduction. There
are no stirring individual performances on Rio, and, worst of all, no commitment. This quality causes the songs to wear
with repeated listening. Actually, it is a credit to the songwriting on the album that this sterility is not immediately
overwhelming. The emotion is locked into the melody, never touching the playing or production. It is hard to get too
excited about a band which isn’t excited about itself. I understand that they are terrible live, also. Maybe these guys
are session musicians — for the same effect minus the sterility, Roxy Music.

Transatlantic Music: An English Viewpoint
By JAMES RAMPTON

Since my arrival at Davidson, even more frequently than I have been asked, “Do you know Princess Di?” I have
been asked, “Do you know U2 / Duran Duran / Adam Ant / A.B.C. / The English Beat / Squeeze
/ Joe Jackson / The Clash?” So, it seemed to me a good idea to make one universal reply to
this taxing question in this hallowed publication, laying particular emphasis on the specifically “English” aspects of these groups.

U2’s impassioned and lively brand of rock is at present cornering the hardcore of the British “floating trendy” market, much
in the same way the Clash did a couple of years ago. At the same time, Duran Duran, dominating the
U.K. equivalent of the Grammy Awards last month, has the current hold on the lucrative “teenybopper” / screaming-young-girls sector. What
a pity they didn’t play at the Spring Frolics after all. Their exotic, escapist videos have proved the basis of
their hard-sell success. The essential fickleness of the British music-listening public is underlined by the fact that Adam Ant was
doing exactly the same thing only a year ago and is now more or less universally rejected. A similar fate
will undoubtedly befall Duran Duran.

A.B.C. makes less pretense about the ephemeral appeal of their music, manufacturing a striking type of heavily produced, tongue-in-cheek love
song. Their faculty for unashamed showmanship bordering on self-parody should keep them in favor with the British for at least
another six months. The (English) Beat and Squeeze lasted longer than that, but their rise over here was mirrored in
a decline in the U.K. That is not to say that you can’t be popular on both sides of the
Atlantic (witness the hero-worship “passion” of the Beatles, The Rolling Stones, and other such supergroups), but it is a difficult
balance to strike. Two artists who seem to have achieved this recently are the Clash and Joe Jackson, though neither
without certain cynical minorities in England casting aspersions about their street credibility. The answer appears to be that you can’t
please everyone all the time, especially considering how greatly English and American music tastes can vary. This is borne out
by the general ignorance over here of popular yet esoteric English bands such as Elvis Costello and the Attractions, The
Jam (now defunct, alas), Madness, and UB40 — whose very name, representing the official British unemployment benefit cards, is incomprehensible
to most people in the US.

I can foresee many more British groups — some of whom already command strong minority followings here — bridging that
wide Atlantic culture gap. Culture Club, fronted by the charismatic and soulful Boy George, and Musical Youth, filled with infectious,
youthful buoyancy, stand clearly as the main contenders at present. But Soft Cell, Echo and the Bunnymen, Spandau Ballet and
The Thompson Twins — notable respectively for their predilection for seediness, their innovative hairdos, their bizarre wardrobe and their excessive
energy — should be following on their heels.

The tradition of British successes in the U.S. is now deep-rooted, from The Beatles through The Rolling Stones and The
Who right up to Dire Straits and The Clash. However, it is still refreshing to realize that certain things will
always be loved exclusively in your own nation. The British may have given the Americans Paul McCartney, and the Americans
may have given the British Michael Jackson (fair exchange, no robbery!); but esoteric bands like, say, Chairman of the Board
here or Grievous Bodily Harm in London are never going to be very likely to make a wildly successful trans-Atlantic
crossing.
