Friday, December 7, 1983 / The Davidsonian

The Kernel Of Faith
Stuart Cooper And Karl Lorenz

To many people, life is a world of fantasy—not a childish game populated by villains, heroes, dragons, and butterflies, but a fantasy akin to the hallucinations of an opiated mind. This fantasy acts as a façade over reality for the purpose of hiding the truth from one’s mind and preventing the intrusions of uncomfortable thoughts and calls to decision. In just this way, the drunken pilot of a boat can drift contentedly downstream, not worrying about the direction he takes, though reality soon dictates that his journey end on the edge of a rock or at the bottom of a waterfall.

Hallucinating addicts take many opiates—dreams of financial success, speciously reasoned excuses, the “American dream,” or the party this Saturday. These fantasies are circumventions of reality, but reality cannot be destroyed; it can only be hidden. Reality is Jesus Christ, and his call to commitment. Reality is the kingdom of our Creator who calls us to his fellowship and to his service. Reality is discovered by putting faith in God’s son, Jesus Christ. Yet many call that faith an opiate, wishful thinking, no more than a crutch—but is it not foolish for a lame man to refuse a crutch? For man is lame without God, and man without God is doomed to the devastating despair of nihilistic existence—life with no meaning. It is no wonder that people live in fantasies to escape this dreadful truth.

Some may try to deny the reality of Christ, but their efforts are of absolutely no avail—“the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness; but unto us which are saved, it is the power of God” (1 Cor. 1:18).

The meaning of faith is frequently obscured by its redefinition as an opinion, belief, or intellectual proposition. Faith is concomitant to belief—it is “the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen” (Heb. 11:1). However, it is much more than a worthless opinion; it is the uncompromised investment of one’s life and desires in Jesus Christ. Not only must a person believe in the lordship of Jesus Christ; he must act on it and “seek first his kingdom and his righteousness” (Matt. 6:33). Belief alone is clearly insufficient—“You believe that God is one; you do well. Even the demons believe and shudder” (James 2:19). Jesus calls people to a commitment to “count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Jesus Christ my Lord” (Phil. 3:8).

Therefore, the heart, the kernel, of faith is Jesus Christ. All other aspects of one’s life—church affiliation, philanthropy, scholarship, one’s “own goodness”—are insubstantial incidentals. Faith is independent of one’s status in humanity because it depends on one’s status with God—a condition of forgiveness and reconciliation given to mankind through his son.

Since faith is a commitment to living for Christ, faith necessarily results in a changed life. “If anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation; the old has passed away, behold, the new has come” (2 Cor. 5:17). Eyes are focused on God. He is Lord, his will is his people’s purpose, and that which conflicts with his will is no longer important. As God’s will is allowed to become prominent in an individual’s life, he or she will discover moral reality. A relationship with Christ bears results, the fruit of the Spirit. “Now the works of the flesh are plain: fornication, impurity, licentiousness, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, anger, selfishness, dissension, party spirit, envy, drunkenness, carousing, and the like. . . . But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control . . .” (Gal. 5:20-23).

Faith is a trusting of God’s purpose. It is a trust initiated through the love of God who, being both uncompromisingly just and loving, sent his son in love that he might die for the sin of each of us, thereby fulfilling his requirements for justice. A Christian is not morally better than anyone else and is in no way superior. The Christian, however, has embraced Jesus Christ and his reconciliation. To embrace anything less than Christ is to embrace nothing.

If faith lacks fruit, it is a similarly worthless illusion. However, to give one’s life to Christ is to be born again, to be given new eyes that magnify the beauty of our world thousand-fold. It is our prayer that you may come to know the reality and power of the love of Jesus Christ.

Cooper and Lorenz are sophomore English majors. Cooper is from Augusta, Ga. and Lorenz is from Marietta, Ga. Both are Christians.

The Day After: Bad Science Fiction
Mike Stephens

I have one question for all of those who watched the recent ABC production of “The Day After.” Was there anything in it that you wouldn’t have wanted your twelve-year-old sister to see? I certainly didn’t find anything in it to be sufficiently disgusting or grotesque to warrant the network’s warning that viewing “The Day After” could be a traumatic experience to those with weak hearts or backs and to expectant mothers. The only compulsion I felt during that oh-so gripping two-hourSaga was to change the channel and watch a rerun of “The Jeffersons.” Why, I would ask, was that program such a big deal? Here at Davidson, I had heard nothing about it. It obviously wasn’t big enough news to warrant a write-up in The Davidsonian or the SGA Minutes. The first time I heard about it was when I returned home after finals. One of the first things I heard when I walked in my garage door was the voice of my thirteen-year-old sister, just barely old enough not to suffer devastating mental side effects by watching it, saying, “Mike, are you going to watch ‘The Day After’?” I asked her if that was the one starring Dick Van Dyke as an alcoholic, but I remembered that was “The Morning After.” I then quickly received a lecture from a thirteen-year-old point of view about the evils of going three months without watching any television. I also found out about a highly publicized program on the effects of a nuclear war which was to be broadcast the following Sunday night. That evening, the newscast took five or six minutes to explain this important media event that apparently everyone except The Davidsonian and the SGA Minutes had covered in triplicate. After the hype, I was expecting a show that would rival the cable television release of Star Wars. What I received was a massive letdown. For at least ten minutes after viewing the show, I sat staring at the bland TV screen wondering why I had just wasted two hours of my life that I could have spent playing “Missile Command.” I then went home to find my family huddled around the television set watching Red Cloud.

It certainly is unthinkable... downright silly too! Carl Sagan contradicted himself in front of a bunch of important people. It was not a good TV show. I didn’t even like the special effects. I say that, of course, based on a rather gilded memory of television. I will not discount the possibility that during the three months I abstained almost totally from television, programming quality sunk to a level where “The Day After” could be considered good. If “The A-Team” can top the Nielsen charts for four weeks in a row, anything can happen. The next evening, the newscast spent ten minutes of very expensive air time in a follow-up special called something like “The Day After ‘The Day After.’” During this report, they interviewed people with such relevant comments as “Gosh those bombs were big,” or “I’ve never heard of Lawrence, Kansas before.” Why didn’t they try to educate their receiving public about our present situation? No bias, just facts. Nuclear war is a constant threat. Nuclear disarmament is a constant threat. Which is greater? I really can’t answer that, but I don’t think my inability to do so makes me any more ignorant than the other three billion people on our fine planet. If anyone really did know, chances are that we wouldn’t have this problem. “Gosh those bombs are big” is right. The blast alone would kill people standing seven miles from the center, radiation aside. I figured that I'd ask a few people what they thought about the situation and I got as many different answers as people I questioned. One of the people I asked said that he really couldn’t conceive of how anyone could be so perverse as to even build the bombs in the first place, and then began singing “All You Need is Love” and went back to whatever he was doing. I suppose in a way he was right, but nations don’t have consciences. I am firmly convinced that for the average person there are many more important things to worry about than nuclear war. If someone is going to worry, he must actively support his view. Otherwise, he is just another hypocrite. I don’t mean to slight the situation, but I do think that the sort of attitude as portrayed by producing a show like “The Day After” can only be detrimental. The program had no intention of presenting a solution for the problem, or even realistically portraying how to cope with the unthinkable. It was, in fact, bad science fiction. There are no easy answers. A show such as “The Day After” could have been useful, if for nothing else than information on how to build a bomb shelter and to treat radiation sickness for those who were interested. It would have meant, however, that the scriptwriter would have had to read something other than D.C. comics for source material. I soon expect to see nuclear holocaust toys lining the shelves in preparation for Christmas. The show effectively covered itself from scientific criticism in the disclaimer at the end stating that the actual effects of a nuclear blast might be worse than portrayed, but that wouldn’t have been as interesting of a story. Why didn’t they show us? If we can watch Friday the 13th (in 3-D no less) then we can watch anything. Science fiction is great, but it is not meant to be taken seriously. I guess there was one good thing to come of it, though — “The A-Team” wasn’t number one in the Nielsens.

Stephens is a freshman from Roswell, Georgia.