The Davidsonian / Friday, September 16, 1983

LOOKING FOR A PLACE TO TAKE AIR FORCE ROTC? LOOK HERE:

Not all colleges and universities in the United States have Air Force ROTC programs. And we recognize that many people want to enter the two or four-year program and are looking for a school where they can take it. Call or visit one of the AFROTC detachments listed above and ask about the “Crosstown” program.

Here are some more facts that may be of interest:
- Courses are open to college men and women.
- Full scholarships are available that pay tuition, books, and lab and incidental fees, plus $100 a month during the school year.
- You work toward an Air Force commission upon graduation.
- You have an opportunity to serve your country as an Air Force officer.
- You don't have to be enrolled in these schools to attend the AFROTC program there.

Check it out right away. You'll find a brand new kind of opportunity. For more information, call or write:

AFROTC
Gateway to a great way of life.

Contact Capt. Paul Chambers at UNCC, Calvard 3059 (704) 597-4537

The Army Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) is more than a college program. It's a tradition. For 163 years, ROTC has been training people to do a job that’s also a tradition: the job of an Army officer.

In 1819, Captain Alden Partridge, a former superintendent at West Point, started what we know today as Army ROTC. He felt our country needed more “citizen soldiers.” So he established the first private school to offer military instruction.

It didn't take long for his idea to spread. By the turn of the century, 105 colleges and universities across the country were offering military instruction on their campuses.

Today, with Army ROTC available at over 1,400 colleges and universities, the program is stronger than ever.

ARMY ROTC. TO BE AN OFFICER IS STILL ONE OF THE BEST.

And last year alone, over 70,000 students participated. Some were interested in the leadership and management training. Others enrolled on full-tuition scholarships. And the financial assistance — up to $1,000 a year during the last two years of ROTC — attracted still others.

But all of them had one thing in common: the desire to begin their future as Army officers.

Why don't you do the same? You'll graduate to a position of real responsibility. Exercise leadership and management skills. Build a secure future for yourself. And enjoy the travel, adventure, and prestige of being a second lieutenant in today’s Army.

Army ROTC. It's as much of a tradition as the job it trains you for. Find out how to enroll today.

For more information, contact the Army ROTC Professor of Military Science on your campus.

BE ALL YOU CAN BE.

SEE MAJOR HILL, SCHOLARSHIP OFFICER BASEMENT OF BELK DORMITORY, 892-2000, Ext 167