Humes Needs Examination; the Whole College Should Participate

Tuesday afternoon twelve faculty members staged a mini-rebellion against the Administration’s efforts to usurp authority over curriculum. The coup was
a success. An outside consultant’s report had been released calling for massive revisions to the Humanities program. Without any Faculty
consultation or notice, College President Sam Spencer and Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C.
Price Zimmermann replaced the two directors of the staff with Professor Earl MacCormac and called for massive changes. The Faculty
voted overwhelmingly to ask that this announcement be rescinded pending Faculty consultation and action.

It is gratifying to see the Faculty finally do something like this. That letter was the most radical and gutsy
move the Faculty has taken in quite a while. It’s almost understandable why the Administration would feel justified in taking
these actions, though. The Faculty has consistently indicated that they don’t want much responsibility or power. Last year they rejected
a proposal to set up a faculty tenure committee which by all indications would have had a significant say in
tenure decisions. They turned down this power, saying in effect to the Dean, “You make the decision; we don’t want
to.” Just last week they eliminated quantifiable student evaluation forms and thus made evaluation decisions that much more an area
solely for the Dean. The Administration’s reaction that the Faculty wanted to stay in the classroom and not be bothered
with larger matters is thus understandable.

But this move was apparently just too much. The Faculty couldn’t take this announcement lightly. The lack of professional courtesy
in the decision is simply amazing. The current directors of the Humes program were not even told that their positions
were being consolidated. They found out as everybody else did when the memo was distributed. Both Humanities teams had started
their own examination of the consultants’ report and were planning how they were going to alter the program. Then came
the announcement that all that was to be done for them. No wonder they felt like the Administration was staging
a commando raid on their program, imposing curriculum changes by administrative fiat.

To be fair, no one could be sure what Prof. MacCormac had in mind. Considering his record and familiarity with
the Humes program, probably great things. But there is no excuse for excluding the Faculty this way. He probably was
the right choice to lead the revision and the new program. His appointment could have been made in a bit
more palatable way, however.

The Humanities program is one of Davidson’s most successful, but it was set up twenty years ago. It is time
for a long look at it, and major changes are warranted. The program has stagnated a bit over the years,
and fresh ideas are needed. However, this examination should come from the entire College community — including present and former
Humes students. This unpleasantness may help to clarify just who is responsible for what, and the limits of administrative power.
The Faculty has made clear that they take curriculum very seriously. Now that proper relationships are clear, the big job
is to make one of the best programs at Davidson a little more up to date.

Due to heinous technical problems, this week’s Davidsonian issue date is Monday. We ran out of activator in the wee
morning hours. Although we didn’t miss our deadline as such, several headlines and, alas, even articles were lightly printed.

Include Numerical Ratings in Prose Course Evaluations

Last night the SGA passed a Davidson resolution that calls for “students to include numerical ratings on course content, course
in general, and the professor with their prose comments on the faculty evaluation forms.” Students are also asked to indicate
on the form whether they agree with the Faculty decision to do away with the ICES forms.

The SGA also passed a resolution that the “SGA will make forms available for numerical evaluation on course content, course
in general, and the professor and space for additional comments.” The forms will be provided by the SGA on the
last day of class and will be provided only to Dean Zimmermann.

These two resolutions provide an effective way for students to give the Dean of Faculty evaluation information that was lost
with the discontinuation of the ICES forms. They also provide a way for students to show their professors that they
want an effective evaluation form and disagree with last week’s decision to change to exclusively prose forms.

We encourage all students to follow through with these resolutions. They are good, effective ways of letting the faculty know
we want an active voice in Faculty evaluation.

Goodbye

Many thanks go to all my staff members. For over a year they have put up with wild, last-minute deadline
trips to Charlotte, Greensboro, and Concord in rain, sleet, and snow, with countless all-nighters, with a grouchy editor, and in
general, long hours week after week. Far beyond any ordinary call of duty they have consistently sacrificed school, sleep, time,
and sanity for The Davidsonian. Without such help, I would have lost sanity long ago.

I won’t miss the Mergenthaler, deadlines, chemicals that eat your fingerprints, or any more sleep, but I will miss all
the people who make this paper.

The Davidsonian

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson

The Davidsonian is published weekly during the school year by the students of Davidson College.

Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone: 704-892-2000. Subscription rates: $10.00 per year. Second class postage
paid at Davidson, NC.

Advertising rates available on request.
Stewart Cramley, Editor

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 February 1983
