“The Tale of Mike Sorrentino” Cont’d.

He passed for a school record 146 assists (which was later broken by Chris Dodds’ 207 mark in the 1977-78
season) despite his emotional troubles. That mark included a still-standing record 17-assist performance against Wofford. As a junior, however, he
became Davidson’s most erratic player. “There was no in-between for me,” he told the Observer. “Either I played great or
couldn’t play at all.” He started his senior season in the same manner, and the team followed suit with a
4-4 start. During a timeout in a game against Miami of Ohio in the Charlotte Invitational Tournament, Sorrentino realized, “I
was trying so hard to play good basketball, and the harder I tried the worse it got. I’ve always had
the ability to shoot and pass. My problem was the right mental approach,” he said. During the timeout, something came
to him. “I said to myself, ‘What’s going on here? Why am I letting it get me down?’ I told
myself to relax.” From that point on, he started playing better.

Sorrentino was at his best that year against eleventh-ranked South Carolina. Playing against his high school teammate Brian Winters, Sorrentino
played the best game of his career. He ran the offense nearly flawlessly, with fourteen points and no turnovers. On
defense, he ineffectualized Winters by holding him to 3 of 17 field goals. “They can say I played good defense,”
he told Stan Olson of the Charlotte News, “but if Brian had been hot, there’s nothing I could have done
to stop him. This is a great one, though.” With typical modesty, he later told the Observer, “I don’t look
at it as me beating Brian and Tony Byers. It’s Davidson beating South Carolina. What we do individually goes toward
the team winning, and that’s what counts the most.”

By the time “Bruno” Sorrentino shed his number 13 uniform for the last time in the spring of 1974, he
had led the Wildcats to an 18-9 season and had passed for a career record 355 assists (which John Carroll
broke this year). After graduation, Sorrentino went to Europe. Perhaps it seemed to him that he had several more lives
to live, and he could not spare any more time for basketball. Perhaps he went there to advance in the
direction of his dreams. Whatever the reason, he wandered aimlessly across the continent, hitch-hiking and odd-jobbing his way.

The bad knees that had plagued Sorrentino for years forced him back to the United States in the winter of
1979-80. A year before, he had torn three of four knee ligaments while playing professional basketball in Switzerland. He couldn’t
walk for more than two hours in a row without considerable pain, so it was imperative that he return home
for an operation. He went to Davidson for the winter prior to his operation to use the Johnston Gym facilities
to strengthen his knee.

Sorrentino took a job at the Peregrine House, and for accommodations, he occupied an old treehouse in the woods. “It
wasn’t that I needed a place to stay,” he told Stan Olson in a 1979 article. “I’ve got friends here
and a lot of people invited me to stay with them, and I could pay rent. But I just wanna
stay outside.” Perhaps his time in the treehouse was one more life to live, and he could not spare any
more time for traveling. “I’ve been in a house in New York all my life,” Sorrentino explained, “and it’s nicer
outside. We all think about that, but nobody does it.” He went on, “That’s why shopping malls are so popular.
People feel closed in and so safe from the rain and snow. Someday the whole world will be a big
shopping mall and we’ll all be safe.”

In the treehouse, Sorrentino was endeavoring to live the life he had imagined. He stored a crate of yogurt there
and slept in a sleeping bag. The treehouse even had floor-to-ceiling...Carpet on one of the walls. But most importantly, Sorrentino
said, “I’ve got a window facing east that I can see the sunrise through and the moonrise at night.”

‘Bruno’ in his heyday. Today, “Bruno,” as he is still called, is living in Chapel Hill and working at a
bakery in Durham. He works the 8 p.m.-4 a.m. shift. Until just recently, he was living in a secluded cabin
in the woods with no plumbing or electricity and far from the dusty highways of the world. It’s not the
sort of life one would expect of a Davidson graduate, but one cannot apply the expectations of common hours to
Mike Sorrentino.

Thoreau wrote, “I had not lived there a week before my feet wore a path from my door to the
pond-side; and though it is five or six years since I trod it, it is still quite distinct.” There is
no such path leading to Mike Sorrentino’s treehouse; he probably took care to avoid falling into such a patterned track.
“You know, some people have talked about tearing down that treehouse,” Sorrentino said. “I hope they don’t, it’s a super
place. You can see the sun rise.”

At some point during Mike Sorrentino’s thirty years of sunrises, he, like Thoreau, concluded, “I do not say that John
or Jonathan will realize all this; but such is the character of that morrow which mere lapse of time can
never make to the dawn. The light which puts out our eyes is darkness to us. Only that day dawns
to which we are awake. There is more day to dawn. The sun is but a morning star.”

Wrestlers Blitz Hampden-Sydney
Breidenstine Registers Three Pins
By SCOTT BEAVER ’84

Davidson picked up two team wins and some sparkling individual performances as the Cats’ mat record went to 5-4 this
week. Davidson participated in a four-team meet with Washington and Lee, Hampden-Sydney, and Loyola, and also met Catawba here Tuesday.

The Wildcats dropped the match to Washington and Lee 36-19. Forfeits in the 118 lb., 190 lb., and heavyweight divisions
cost Davidson 18 points. The Generals picked up three pins as well. Larry Anker (139) pinned freshman Tom Cardwell, Tim
White (150) pinned freshman Clay Carroll, and Tom Volliere (169) pinned sophomore Bob McCullen, who had previously competed at 190.
The Wildcats got wins from sophomore Tom Oddo (134) as he beat Jim Foley 27-6, junior John Breidenstine (142), who
pinned Win Sission at 5:40, senior Chris Tiernon (158), a 3-2 winner over Win Phillips, and from junior Tom Hissom,
who won 19-3 over Dave Johnston.

Later that day, Davidson blitzed Hampden-Sydney 35-0. In addition to two forfeits, Davidson won five individual matches, and had two
double forfeits. Breidenstine pinned Jake Peck at 3:10, and Tiernon did the same to Richard Rogers at 2:37. Oddo crushed
Tom Bourne 27-7, Carroll beat Bob Houska, 9-4, and McCullen decisioned Mike Adams, 9-4.

The Wildcats got their second win of the day by downing Loyola of Baltimore, 28-12. Loyola won one match by
forfeit, and picked up a pin at 167. The Wildcat grapplers got pins from Breidenstine, who beat Homer Ambrose at
3:09, and from Carroll, who pinned Mike Harrison at 1:07. Oddo beat Greg Bell on points, 18-7, and Hissom, wrestling
at 190, decisioned Joe Hamel 6-3.

Tuesday night, the Wildcats faced perennial nemesis Catawba in the Cats’ last home match of the season. Again, forfeits were
costly as Davidson lost twelve points by forfeit, winning one weight class by forfeit. That forfeit to Davidson at 167
denied senior co-captain Tiernon his last match in front of a home crowd. Oddo pinned Sean Hore at 4:13, and
Hissom pinned Carl Johnson at 3:42. Two individual matches ended in ties, as Breidenstine tied Pat Pirce at 6-6, and
McCullen tied Steve Leech at 10-10. Catawba’s wins came at 118, where Pete Kelley beat freshman Jim Labrec 12-0, at
134, where Greg Stewart decisioned Cardwell 11-2, and at 150, where Pete Simmons beat Carroll 8-4.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 4 February 1983 19
