Hilarious Absurd Existence

Reviews of last week’s and this week's plays
By STEPHANIE BRUCK ’84

Theatergoers became voyeurs into a world of virtual existentialism and absurdism as Bill Crone and Roy Fuller produced plays written
by the defining masters of these genres. Sartre’s "No Exit" and Ionesco’s "The Lesson" create funny, strange, and extraordinary scenes
which pose serious questions.

"No Exit" embodies the existential statement that a life achieves definition and meaning only as the result of others who
observe that life. A bellboy ushers three people into a room in Hell from which there is no exit. As
they gradually reveal themselves to each other, their hatred builds. They revile the company of one another and vow to
introspect rather than enter each other’s lives. But eternity looms in front of them, and they realize they need each
other, if only to fashion a semblance of meaning for their suffering.

Elizabeth Williams debuts in an extremely difficult role and makes the unpleasantly frank Inez a real person. Freshman Chris Lightbown
is off to an excellent start with his portrayal of Vincent, a man tortured with his own cowardice. Heather Jameson
is outstanding as Estelle, whose almost schizoid ability to ignore her monstrous self and exist as a totally different person
makes her a fascinating and frightening character. The trio works well together, with the hatred and the need quite apparent,
and Joe Jaworski set the keynote for the show as the deliciously diabolical bellboy.

Director Bill Crone, who disagrees with Sartre’s philosophy, stages the play in such a way that the audience decides if
the vampirish relationships shown are in fact man’s true state. After the characters’ horribly revealing epiphany, the cycle of acquaintance
and hatred grinds around to its beginning again, and the audience is left hoping deeply that it isn’t true.

"The Lesson," directed by Roy Fuller, is the second absurdist work of the one-act play season. The action of the
piece moves in two ways: the relationship between the characters inverts during the course of the play as the timid
professor becomes insanely enraged, while the originally confident pupil becomes a fearful and desperately defiant wreck. The atmosphere of the
piece moves linearly from the calmly rational to frenzied, emotional, irrational heights, culminating in the professor’s stabbing of his pupil.

John Marks continues to surpass himself. In this demanding part, his sense of comedy is perfect, heightening his degeneration, so
that at the peak of his rage, the stage is his. In her first major role here, Jenny Cooper brings
depth to the role of the pupil, not allowing the obvious personality shift to define and limit her character. It
is the maid who the professor turns to for help and comfort, and she, in her obsessively maternal concern, gently
chastises him and makes it “all better.” Laura Singleton finds the right note to make the audience’s skin creep as
she calmly dominates the erstwhile horrifying professor.

The pace was lively last week as the actors kept the lines moving, and Roy’s blocking kept the play visually
interesting. This chilling picture of the perils of absolute power both immediately gripped the audience and left them with some
powerful food for thought.

Metal Sculpture
Gaping and scrawled pieces on display
By CLARE ECKERT ’85The current exhibit in the Gallery, entitled Metal Works, represents a collection of ten recent sculptures and
four etched wall-reliefs by Jan Brooks Loyd. Loyd, an Assistant Professor in the Creative Arts at UNCC, has become one
of the few women recognized internationally in the medium of metal work, having exhibited last year at the Smithsonian Institute
and at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London.

Her career, Loyd cites as the “high point” of her career the time she spent with a blacksmith in Santa
Fe learning to use a forge. After this experience, Loyd was able to experiment with surfaces as well as shapes,
as Metal Works illustrates. The bowl-shaped, forged sculptures in Metal Works “function as drawings,” says Russ Warren, Assistant Professor of
Art here at Davidson. The artist stresses the surfaces of her sculptures; the undulating rims lend an almost delicate air
to the steel medium while the etched inner surfaces produce a variety of textures. A jagged piece of steel, a
length of wire, even a dart are included in the “drawings” on the inner surfaces. Reflecting the variety of the
sculptures, their titles range from the peaceful Desert Flower to the stark Severed Extremity.

On the boards for Friday night

Take a Friday ramble to Cunningham and buy a ticket early for a hilarious hour and a half, starting with
Hands Across the Sea, directed by Todd Cowdery. Noël Coward’s 1930s English drawing room comedy keeps the audience roaring as
an exuberant socialite finds that she has no idea who the couple in her living room is. This actual plot
is amusing, but almost incidental as the humor lies in the characterizations. It is the ladies’ show as Valerie Hinton
shines as Piggie, the oh-so-vivacious hostess, spectacularly holding the stage. Newcomer Liz Relyea displays quick dry wit as her friend,
and Rob Spach and Rob Moore lend a special British air. Charles Mitchell brings the audience to his side as
a marvelous long-suffering husband. The affected British accents are not perfect, but acceptable. The blocking makes the physical action parallel
the swirling confusion in Piggie’s head. The strong supporting roles live up to the standard set by Valerie and lend
a solid footing to the sparkling, outrageous humor.

Suzann Smith directed A Good Time, by Ernest Thompson, author of On Golden Pond, who mingles humor with a more
serious look at relationships. A cop shows up at the apartment of a stylish New York woman who had told
him two years before that if he forgot about the ticket, she would show him a good time in New
York. After several very amusing misunderstandings, they leave to go sightseeing. Anne Miano is intriguing as the sophisticated woman keeping
control of her life with Jane Fonda’s Workout, chanting, and grass. Frank Bright’s first performance is in the role of
a quiet, perceptive policeman. His understated manner is quite appropriate for the part. The actors play well off each other
as the atmosphere moves from a great awkwardness to a closer intimacy. There are a few moments which drag, but
the interchanges between the characters are well played. The message becomes a bit heavy-handed, but the characters more than compensate
for the dross.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/28 January 1983
By Anderson Scott ’84
