Johnson Sonia: Did she feel a loss of communion?
By MIKE MASON ’83

Even through the cackling interference of a long-distance call, an intense, earnest note sounds often in Sonia Johnson’s discourse. Half
missionary, half heretic, she has come to the forefront of a women’s movement already noted for energy and charisma —
and now, perhaps, a more concise vision as well.

Ms. Johnson was excommunicated from the Mormon Church in 1979, an incident which became something of a media event and
sparked a national admiration for uncompromising conviction.

I was reading a handout I have, the introductory paragraph of which concludes with what is termed your “feminist awakening?”
Does this denote a general trend, or a certain moment in time?

Johnson: For me, it denotes a moment. One night at church when a man was speaking about the women’s movement,
I had what I believe was an epiphany. I understood. After talking about it for all those many years, I
knew exactly, in my bones, what it meant to be a woman in these times.

It sounds very much like a religious experience of sorts. Is it tied up for you in religion?

Johnson: Nope — certainly not in any organized one. They’re all men — made by males, practiced for males, God
is male, and all that. It’s like a religious experience, but, well...

Perhaps best expressed by a religious vocabulary?

Yes, but not in an orthodox way. Not any established religion.

Sonia Johnson authored a book about her experiences with the repression of the Mormon Church, called From Housewife to Heretic,
which was published in 1980. The book’s approach is an autobiographical one; the narrative simply describes (in a personal way)
the events that shaped her convictions. Much of it concerns her family and friends, and their reactions to her outspoken
feminism. It is alternately both poignant and infuriating, and well explains why Ms. Johnson often has been labeled a radical
leader.

Is there anything you miss about life before your awakening or the excommunication?

Johnson: No. It was a happy, conventional life. I would never go back to it.

Are your relationships with family and friends better now than they were before your views were so widely publicized?

Oh yes. They thought if you had these views, soon you'd start taking drugs, driving fast cars, sleeping with every
man in sight — you know what I mean. But they’ve seen that I love my children, have some sense
about what I feel — they know this about me, now.

Last summer, Sonia Johnson embarked on a 37-day fast in support of the ERA. The move marked her as something
of a maverick in the women’s movement. While there were many objections to the seeming sensationalism of the fast, many
believe that Ms. Johnson demonstrated conclusively to the nation that the momentum of the feminist cause has not diminished appreciably.
The added notoriety gave her new rank among leaders of organizations such as NOW, for which she ran for President
last fall.

What factors do you see as most likely to forestall the momentum of the women’s movement?

Johnson: Well, it’s already happened — the defeat of the ERA. For just a little while, it seemed that the
promise of the Constitution might be fulfilled...Other thing is that the New Right took over. They spent a lot of
money and time to see that the ERA didn’t pass for that reason (to break feminist momentum). I could almost
say Reagan. Period.

You ran for President of NOW last fall. Do you have any ideas as to why you might have lost?

Johnson: Oh sure — I was running against the incumbent — sort of. The President then couldn’t win again because
of the by-laws. The person she chose to run in her stead had been a vice-president, was trained under her,
and was chosen by her. So in a sense, I was running against an incumbent. Also, many people perceived that
I wanted to change things, and that’s quite true. There are always more people in an organization, any organization, afraid
of change, than otherwise. Most were surprised I made as much headway as I did.

What would you change about NOW, if you could?

Johnson: I'd have them doing the work of the revolution. You see, the goal of the women’s movement is to
change the whole societal structure. What we’re saying is, the way the whole thing is set up, it’s unethical, it’s
corrupt, it just doesn’t work well. It’s not a good system. Why would we want it? We want justice for
everybody. We’re after a “cultural revolution” — I hate to use those words — but that’s the idea. I was
saying, let us begin to take the leadership. Women have been reactive all through history — far too long. It
is time to become active. I was perceived as radical — I’m not radical at all. Any man in his
right mind would say the same thing.

What do you think of the proposition that, as they become embroiled in the compromising pressures of business and political
life, feminist visionaries may soon become as short-sighted as the men they oppose?

Johnson: Sure, but it is most likely to happen where there are fewer women. When you're a token you don’t...

Women ma ce IS -T mR = CO — © Cr ™

Ruth Moose

The literary life brings vit

BY THURSTON HATCHER ’85

Ruth Moose has always had a love for words. Even when she was a small child growing up in North
Carolina foothills, something about the sounds of words read to her delighted and fascinated her. She now transfers her love
for words onto paper so that others can appreciate what she has to offer. Ruth Moose is, she is proud
to say, a writer.

Moose has been prominent in this region as a writer for many years, and more recently her works have earned
national recognition. She recently had a short story, “The Summer Kitchen,” published in Redbook, and she has also published works
in The Nation, Atlantic Monthly, and Yankee magazines. In addition, she has published three books, and she edits a literature
magazine, The Uwharrie Review.

A graduate of the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, Moose grew up in the Piedmont area and has continued
to live here. She now lives in a mountain house in Albemarle with her husband (an artist) and two sons.
Writing, for Moose, has been a lifelong love.
