12 - From The Locker Room
Friday, October 28, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Oriole Season Culminates Four Year Effort
By STEVE SOUD

In one sense, the Baltimore Orioles’ 1983 season began with their heart-breaking season-ending loss to the Milwaukee Brewers in 1982. In another sense, though, it began with their inexplicable fold in the 1979 World Series. The Orioles became only the fourth team to blow a 3 game to 1 lead in the October classic. The following seasons tortured the Orioles with tantalizing near-championships: in 1980 the Orioles won 100 games and finished second. (No one won 100 this year.) In 1981 the Orioles had the second-highest winning percentage in the majors, but didn’t qualify for postseason play under the strike season rules. Then, last year, Milwaukee came into town with a three-game lead and four games to play. The Orioles won all but the last. As second-baseman Rich Dauer solemnly left his locker for the last time that year, he muttered, “I can’t wait for April 5th.”

As April 5, 1983, broke on Memorial Stadium, hopes for a pennant-winning season soared. The pitching staff was healthy, Eddie Murray was great, Cal Ripken, Jr. was Rookie of the Year, and the organization had even found an answer for third base in Leo Hernandez. But who, if asked on that day, “If Hernandez gets sent back to Rochester; Palmer, Flanagan, and Tippy Martinez are disabled for a total of six months; Dennis Martinez goes 7-16; and Eddie Murray suffers an 0-for-31 game homerun slump, what place will the O’s finish?” would have answered, “First”?

Oddly enough, all those things did happen, and yet the Orioles still won. Many baseball augurs figured the Orioles to sink with the loss of skipper Earl Weaver, of .596 winning percentage fame. But where Weaver was a feisty little tyrant constantly locking horns with players and umpires, Altobelli was calm, reserved, and casual. The final innings of a big game would send Weaver to the dugout runway to fast deplete a pack of cigarettes. Altobelli, in a like situation, would sit placidly on the bench with a blank look of foreknowledge on his face. Rich Dauer summed up the difference between the genius of Weaver and the carefree attitude of Altobelli: “Earl taught us the game, but Joe lets us play it.”

The Orioles played — yes — but erratically. After a 9-8 start they went 14-5, 0-7, 14-4, 5-12, 20-6, 0-7, and so on. But when the crucial stretch run came, the lap people said would burn out the Orioles, the Birds went 16-6 on the road against the likes of Detroit, New York, Boston, and Milwaukee. Amazingly, the Orioles pulled all this off with a rag-tag lineup of uncanny trades and Rochester call-ups. Storm Davis, the youngest player in the majors at the start of the season, was 12-7 at the end of the season. Mike Boddicker, called up from Rochester, went 16-7 with the major league’s slowest pitch, the foshball. He became the first rookie to lead the league in shutouts since 1927. Allan Ramirez was a competent 4-4. Bill Swaggerty was called up to halt a 7-game slide, and he shut out the White Sox through six and two-thirds innings to do it. And Todd Cruz, though no Brooks Robinson at third base, played capable baseball asWell. All things considered, the fact that the Orioles remained even close to the top was a tribute to an outstanding farm system. It was most fitting that of all the Orioles, Dempsey was the Most Valuable. He wanted the championship more than the rest, I think. That’s not to say the others didn’t want it; he just wanted it most. He chased every pop foul, he cut down would-be base thieves, and though he claimed never to have been hot in his whole career, he set a record for most extra base hits (four doubles and a homer) in a 5-game World Series. Here was the little guy in the back of the order leading the attack. With one out in the bottom of the ninth final game, tears welled into Dempsey’s masked eyes. “Come on Mac,” he pleaded. Dempsey, the heart and soul of the champions, pleaded for Scott McGregor, who had lost his last three postseason starts including the seventh game of the 1979 World Series, to buckle down and put to end at long last that season begun so long ago.

Women’s Cross Country Races To Victory
JUDY DALTON

The women’s cross country team raced to victory last Saturday in a three-team meet at McAlpine Park in Charlotte. Davidson led with a score of 25, closely followed by Virginia Commonwealth University with 30 points, and J.C. Smith with 83. The times were fast despite the rainy conditions. Sarah Patterson won the race with a time of 18:55. Senior Tamara Foreman followed with a time of 19:26. The rest of the race was a dogfight between Davidson and the VCU team. Both teams practiced good pack running, but the four-member block of Adelyn Lutz, Jean Webb, Judy Dalton, and Ginger Sullivan managed to win narrowly the edge over the Rams team. The Charlotte meet was the last before the national meet in Kenosha, Wisconsin. Although the team qualified in the Pembroke district meet, transportation costs may force the Lady Wildcats to refrain from running. Team members are, however, selling doughnuts in hopes of raising money for the trip.

The Davidsonian did not choose an Athlete of the Week this week.

Outward Bound is a shot of high adventure in the wilderness. And a lot more. It's a trip that'll show you what you're made of. You can discover you can do almost anything you want—if you try. Our 3-week experience in self-confidence sure isn't easy. But it might just last you the rest of your life. Your first challenge: send for full information.

Name
Street
City
State
Zip
School

Check the courses that interest you.
Canoeing
Desert expeditions
White water rafting
Wilderness backpacking
Sailing
Mountaineering

Outward Bound, Dept. CG,
384 Field Point Rd.
Greenwich, CT
Phone toll free (800) 243-8520

No experience necessary. Outward Bound admits students of any sex, race, color, and national or ethnic origin. We are a nonprofit organization. Scholarships available.

Photography: National Geographic Society