6 Friday, April 1, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Athletic Complex

(continued from page 1)

Vice-President for Development Jack Powers estimated that it will cost “$8 million to get the project done completely.”

Meetze said construction would take eighteen months to complete if all phases were built at once, though phases of construction will probably be spread out over a period of several years. If the Trustees approve the final plans this May and funding is available, then construction of the new complex could begin as soon as 1984, according to Farrell.

Once the Trustees approve the final plans for the complex, the College will choose an architect and a construction firm, said Farrell.

Meetze says that glass panels enclosing the natatorium would warm the building. Glass panels would also be constructed to allow spectators to watch athletic events from a central hall.

Powers says that the Department of Development has been soliciting potential donors for months but has gotten “no commitment yet.” The College will name the new complex after a patron who finances more than half of it and will also name various sections after donors, according to Powers.

The Advisory Council on Athletics

The Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics, an advisory committee to the president, met Wednesday to discuss the new sports center and other issues.

The cost of maintaining the new complex was one of the “main issues of the meeting,” according to Committee Chairman and Psychology Professor John Brockway.

Maintaining old buildings is one of the College’s biggest expenses, and it takes money away from other important areas such as school supplies and faculty salaries, according to Brockway.

Brockway pointed out that any decision by the Trustees on the new sports complex will determine Davidson's athletic policy for many years to come. For instance, building a 5000-seat arena for basketball constitutes a commitment to an extensive basketball program. According to Brockway, any decision about the athletic complex is “linked to what the Trustees decide to do with the Davidson athletic program.”

According to Farrell, the Trustees want a “major college basketball team,” which means that Davidson must stay in both the Southern Conference and NCAA Division 1.

Farrell says that in order to compete in Division 1, all Davidson sports must compete in NCAA Division 1 except football, which may remain in Division 1AA. All varsity teams would have to compete for the Southern Conference Championship in order to stay in the Southern Conference.

Farrell said that “conflict for use of the facility is Johnston Gym’s biggest problem;” the varsity basketball teams, IMAC, and the P.E. Department all try to use the same space. Building a separate facility for varsity basketball would alleviate the problem, according to Farrell.

To defend the need for a 5,000-seat arena, Farrell compared the proposed complex with other Southern Conference schools’ gymnasiums. Marshall and UT-Chattanooga each have more than 10,000 seats. VMI seats 5,800, and Furman plays its games in the Greenville Coliseum which seats over 12,000.

Attendance at Davidson men’s varsity basketball games averaged 2,200-2,300 this year; 5,700 (the Cats’ win over Notre Dame) was the largest crowd. Farrell said that attendance will increase as our basketball program becomes more prominent.

Student Council representative Anne Hurt, who declined comment on the new complex itself, raised the question, “Do we want to be known for a nationally ranked basketball program, or do we want to be known for our academic standards?”

She also wondered whether the Trustees “are looking at the effects on minor sports and women’s sports.”

Brockway said the Advisory Council is a “vehicle for student comments” and a “vehicle for faculty comments.” He says that “few faculty members have expressed an opinion [about the new complex]” but that the council “welcomes their opinion.”

“The only student input I’ve received,” said Hurt, “is what I’ve solicited myself.” She thinks that most people “don’t even know what the advisory council is.” She welcomes student opinion and is “eager to talk to people.”

The Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics consists of Brockway, Powers, Farrell, Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann, Dean of Students Will Terry, English professor Gill Holland, Philosophy professor Al Mele, Student Government Association Vice-president Lentz Ivey, and student representatives Hurt and Vic Taylor.

The wide range of subjects includes:

Application blanks from:
Admissions

YOUR CHANCE TO COME TO LONDON

Junior-year programs, Postgraduate diplomas, One-year Master’s degrees and Research opportunities in the social sciences are offered at the London School of Economics and Political Science.

Accounting & Finance, Actuarial Science, Anthropology, Business Studies, Economics, Econometrics, Economic History, European Studies, Geography, Government, Industrial Relations, International History, International Relations, Law, Management Science, Operational Research, Philosophy, Planning Studies, Population Studies, Politics, Sea-Use Policy, Social Administration, Social Work, Sociology, Social Psychology, Statistical and Mathematical Sciences, Systems Analysis.

L.S.E., Houghton Street, London WC2, England

LSE London School of Economics and Political Science

The Davidsonian offers a typesetting service at reasonable rates. If you need any flyers, brochures, invitations, newsletters, or any other form of typesetting, call 892-2000 ext. 148 or 149 for more information.