**The Davidsonian**
Friday, March 25, 1983

The First Step to Compassion
Barry Pinos

It's a typical story: some bar up in Massachusetts, lots of people. Four men attack and rape a woman on
the floor of the bar. Nobody tries to stop them. Nobody calls the police. Nobody even gets up to leave.
It’s the kind of stuff that Paul Harvey or somebody picks up on—soft news. We listen to it. Sometimes we’re
appalled. Then we forget. After all, I may not even have the facts right on this one; somebody else told
me about it. But that’s not really the point. There are plenty of similar examples, examples of people showing a
profound lack of concern and compassion for the other people around them. We’ve all heard the horror stories: automobile accidents
where nobody stops, muggings and murders on crowded city streets. And God save the German people! They let Hitler happen.
So cold. But we all do it. We “don’t get involved.” We have all cast our eyes away, either through
fear or through apathy or through selfishness. I used to get bullied as a kid, but there have indeed been
times when I have walked away from another kid who was suffering the same torment. Yes, it happens in small
ways, but it happens. And it makes me nauseated.

Granted, maybe it’s a little thing, but this tendency of ours to be impersonal, unmoved, detached—call it what you will—is
perhaps the gravest problem facing humankind (that means us) today. To be sure, it’s encouraging that there are those who
are fighting the nuclear arms race, crying out for women’s rights, condemning torture, and preaching equality, but let’s be honest:
what does it all mean if, at bottom, humans have no genuine sense of loyalty to each other? If we
do not believe the above efforts to be in vain, we must witness—we must embody—a sincere commitment by humans and
for humans. This is not a novel idea. People and institutions have been telling us this for centuries, and yet
there does not seem to have been any remarkable progress. Some do not believe that such progress is possible. But
it must be. Progress is now a matter of survival. No longer is there comfort in the well-worn consolation that
“every age has had its disasters and has foreseen the End.” We do not need to be reminded that the
End is more real and imminent than ever before. Our age is unparalleled, and so must be our actions. Truly,
the profound questions of human destiny can no longer be of interest only to the idealists.

The first step must be small and yet infinitely large. Before all else, we must let the typical stories of
this life appall us. They must appall us to the point where we will stand up against the injustice that
takes place daily right in front of our noses, for only then can we expect to survive. Only then will
there be nuclear disarmament and equality, and only then will nations act as groups of feeling human beings. But this
first step of compassion is imperative. We must take it right now, and it must be an aspect of our
day-to-day existence. For we most surely are not going to sincerely help the sick, the starving, and the tortured who
are thousands of miles away until we are able to stoop down and help the lady getting raped on the
bar floor at our feet.

Elledge is a sophomore Mathematics major from Boone, North Carolina.

Science and Faith
To the Editor:

After reading “The Case for Creationism” in last week’s paper several times, I felt it necessary to comment on the
author’s treatment of science. It is not my intention here to join the bandwagon of those restricting creationism from the
classroom but rather to clarify an apparent misconception of science. To claim that science is founded in faith and that
everything in science is invalid without faith is to reveal an absolute ignorance in the concept of science. Science is
founded in a specific method of empirically tested hypotheses. There is no science without also an accumulation of data and
careful experimentation. Furthermore, once a tentative conclusion is reached, it is science again that challenges and scrutinizes it until proven
valid. Science constantly seeks truth through repeated empirical testing. Faith, on the other hand, is, by definition, belief in something
for which there is no proof. Barring the philosophical interpretation of faith, there is no faith in science and there
is certainly no science in faith. Where science can prove, faith cannot. To call creationism “creation science” is...Inaccurate because creationism,
like all of Christianity, relies entirely on faith. Perhaps it is unfair to offer only evolution in the classroom. Go
on then, teach creationism as well. Give them equal time. But where evolution has every right to be taught as
science, creationism has none.

Dave Donahower '83

Ed. note — It would seem many did not understand the author's true intentions with this article. Perhaps it was
a bit too subtle. We suggest that you read it once more, but this time pay special attention to the
last few paragraphs.

Campus Mirrors

To The Editor:

As a person who stands 5’ 2” in her bare feet, I have a complaint about the mirrors on campus.
In my opinion, they were all hung with Cliff Tribus in mind. The mirrors were certainly not placed for the
5’4”-and-under crowd. Don’t be too hasty to dismiss my ire as the paranoia of a vain coed. I don’t think
that my mirror gazing exceeds that of others on campus. After all, doesn’t everyone use the mirror over their sinks
to put in their contacts? To brush their hair? To make sure they’ve wiped all of the toothpaste off their
mouths? To check for grey hairs?

As for the mirrors in the gym, these also reveal my presence in the room only if I have a
distinct cowlick. Otherwise, I lumber up on the sink on my knees to comb my chlorinated hair. Maybe if I
were as good a basketball player as Mike Frankhouser, I, too, could have some mirrors hung in my honor.

In regard to the eating houses, have you ever gone to the bathroom to “powder your nose” and done it
while jumping up and down for glimpses in the mirror? Or, after standing around at a court party for an
hour with no one speaking to you, have you never gone to the bathroom to check for food in the
teeth? As you can see, this mirror problem is not one to be easily dismissed. Rather, it is one of
the more widely reflected problems on campus. Give the matter your serious consideration. It has been an important one throughout
history. What would Sleeping Beauty have done if she couldn’t see in the mirror (Mirror, mirror on the wall .
. .)? What would Alice in Wonderland have done? No less important, to whom would the man in the Foamy
shaving cream commercials talk if he couldn’t see in the mirror? As you can see, there are many facets to
this issue. Could the high placement of our mirrors on campus be a reflection of our times? Would a lowering
of the mirrors be a lowering of our standards?

Catherine Finegan ’84

Hattie’s

To the Editor:

Last Thursday Fannie & Mable’s sponsored the 8th annual Hattie’s Night Celebration in honor of the bar that burned down
in 1975. The campus emptied a phenomenal 20 kegs of Coors and a great time was had by all.

We would like to take this opportunity to thank all those fraternities and eating houses who contributed kegs for the
party. Without the help of these houses, Hattie’s would be just another party. We are sorry that there were conflicts
on the court with other events, but this seems unavoidable. Thanks once again to all those who helped out and
a special thanks to the police officers who helped keep the party safe and under control. We are looking forward
to a bigger and better Hattie’s next year.

Muffin Alford '85
F & M Social Chairmen
Jeff Holland '84

Thanks

To the Editor:

I would like to express my sincere appreciation to the fine people who give us those fine films every Wednesday
night. I find the cartoons classic, the comedy shorts hilarious, and the feature films to be of the highest quality.
Keep it up Fine Filmers! You provide a great break in what would otherwise be a desolate week; a wasteland;
a cultural desert; and I thank you.

Richard Terry

Congratulations

To the Editor:

I would like to congratulate you and David on your first issue of The Davidsonian, which I was pleased to
read from front page to calendar. I am especially pleased at the direction toward thoroughness, professionalism, and quality which the
paper appears to be taking under your leadership. A strong Davidsonian, respondent and responsible first to its readers and then
to the sense of ethics of its editors, is an ideal which each of us in our own way must
be willing to fight for.

Wm. W. Kirkpatrick, Jr.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from our readers. We try to print all letters that are of general interest. Bring typed,
signed letters to The Davidsonian office by 7 p.m. Tuesday. Include your phone number and address. The Davidsonian does not
in any way endorse the opinions expressed in the letters we print.
