The Davidsonian/Friday, April 15, 1983 3

Studio Restaurant to Open Monday

By DAVID RESNIK

The Studio Restaurant will open at 127 Depot Street this Monday.

Owner Linda Ross has named her restaurant the Studio because she plans to display the work of local artists on
its walls.

The new restaurant will serve breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Its hours will run from 6:30 a.m. until closing. It has
a capacity of fifty customers.

The menu will feature continental foods. Breakfast items include sausage, biscuits, ham, eggs, toast, grits, bacon, and hashbrowns. The lunch
menu will include corn on the cob, cheeseburgers, Vienna sandwiches, steak sandwiches, fresh vegetables, and deep-fried vegetables with the salad
bar and quiche as specials.

The dinner menu will feature all the lunch items as well as rib-eye steak, stuffed flounder, crab meat, and chicken
breasts. Homemade blackberry pie will highlight the dessert selection.

The Studio will serve beer and wine as soon as it obtains a license. Ross also plans to open a
full bar and serve mixed drinks if the Studio acquires a liquor license.

The restaurant will begin its delivery service after a few weeks and will accept checks from Davidson students.

Ross bought the building after it was put up for auction in September. In renovating the building, contractors had to
build “everything from scratch” and make “total renovations” in the kitchen.

Ross has hired nine employees from the town of Davidson but has received no applications from students.

“I’m counting a lot on college kids,” said Ross about her potential customers, “but I’m aiming for the town as
a whole, the town’s needs.”

Ross has direct experience in the restaurant business and “likes to cook.” She is originally from Tennessee but has lived
in Coral Gables, Florida for the last ten years. She chose Davidson as the site for her restaurant because she
“likes the town” and likes its location.

New Electron Microscope Unveiled

By TONY DICK

The Davidson College Biology Department has received a scanning electron microscope (SEM) capable of magnifications of up to 500,000 times
actual size.

Biology professor Jeremiah Putnam is presenting the SEM — a gift from an anonymous benefactor — to alumni this weekend
in one of Friday afternoon’s “capsule courses.” Putnam and Chairman of the Biology department John Williamson will talk on the
SEM at the April 27 Open Luncheon. Both welcome interested students to stop in and see the SEM, which is
installed in the Dana Science building basement.

The $60,000 International Scientific Instruments model SS-40 represents “state-of-the-art” SEM technology, according to Williamson. “This is one of the initial
steps in our goal to modernize equipment in the Biology Department. Teaching students to use high technology instrumentation like this
is one of the most important challenges of science programs for undergraduates,” he said.

An SEM is used primarily to examine the surfaces of specimens. It illuminates specimens with a thin beam of electrons,
picks up those that bounce off, and displays the results on a cathode ray tube. It achieves magnifications up to
500 times greater than those of light microscopes.

Chemists and physicists who study materials such as metal surfaces, silicon chips, and complex organic polymers and fibers also use
SEMs. Juniors Malcolm Campbell and Dunbar Ivey are currently researching amphibian evolution using the SEM to complement Putnam’s interest in
human heart evolution.

Putnam attended a week-long SEM workshop earlier this year at the State University of New York in St. Paul so
he serves as the main caretaker of the new device.

The Biology department is developing plans to offer an upper-level Biology course involving the SEM. “We hope to offer a
course to a small group of students next year, but we’re not altogether sure what will be happening with the
switch to the semester system,” said Putnam.

Alumni Classes Reunite

By MARY BETH HARDING

Alumni from ten classes will return to Davidson this weekend to celebrate Alumni Weekend, participate in various activities, and reunite
with their respective classes.

The classes of 1923, ’28, ’33, ’48, ’52, ’53, ’54, ’58, ’63, and ’73, the first class to include women,
will celebrate reunions.

Each class has a reunion committee responsible for determining the location and mechanics of each reunion, according to Alumni Director
Jamie May. All alumni will attend two banquets in the Vail Commons and a speech given by College President Samuel
Spencer Friday evening in Johnston Gym.

Other activities include mini-courses taught by Biology professor Jeremiah Putnam and alumnus Don Mahy, and hospitality hours for each class.
C. Shaw Smith and family will present a “Wacky Wizardry” Show Saturday afternoon in Love Auditorium.

The weekend concludes Saturday night with the reunions of each class. Most reunions will be held at various locations in
Charlotte, although the classes of ’28 and ’33 will celebrate in Vail Commons, while the class of ’54 will reunite
at the KA house.

The main purpose of Alumni Weekend is to give old classmates an opportunity to see each other as well as
professors and the school, said May. “But we also hope they come back to acquaint themselves with the progress of
the institution,” said May.
