The Davidsonian/Friday, October 14, 1983

Locker Room: Weekend Sports Cornucopia
By STEVE SOUD

Hold on to your armchairs and bleachers, sports fans, because this weekend you just may OD on sports. And, as the NCAA reminds us, “Get High On Sports, Not Drugs.”

World Series
It’s a great freeway series this year, featuring some of the game’s greatest players. The ancient Phils, dubbed the Wheeze Kids, start sure Hall of Famers Pete Rose, Joe Morgan, and Steve Carlton. Third baseman Mike Schmidt is a possible Hall of Famer as well. The Orioles are well stocked with players who are blazing paths into Cooperstown. Eddie Murray is one of the best all-around players in the game, and Earl Weaver says people will one day regard shortstop Cal Ripken Jr. as the best for his position. If rookie pitcher Mike Boddicker has many more seasons like this he’ll have a few Cy Young Awards to grace his mantlepiece. That brief list doesn’t begin to include a host of outstanding supporting players.

Charlie Slagle (soccer): O's in 6
George Greer (baseball): Phils in 6
John Byrd (equipment man): Twins in 8
Gerry Born (predictor extraordinaire): O's in 5
Jo Archie (dean of students office): O's in 6
David Shi (History): O's in 7

NAIA Championship Cross Country Team Finishes Second
By RAND HARTSELL

“Whur'n th’ hale’d y’all learn runnin’ like that?” queried a surprised runner from Pembroke State. The Davidson cross country team finished second behind St. Augustine in the NAIA District 26 championship at Pembroke on Oct. 8. Although a distant second to defending district champ St. Aug (who scored 19 points), the Cats bested five other teams including perennial power and host Pembroke State. The Cats slipped by PSU by a score of 70 to 71. Campbell College finished a close fourth with 78 points. Davidson upped its record to 8-2.

Athlete Of The Week
This week fullback Horace Manor and offensive guard Larry Spears are Co-athletes of the Week. Their combined efforts in Davidson’s first win of the year, a 33-17 victory over Guilford, helped lead the Wildcat offense to its most productive game of the year. With Spears and the offensive line opening holes in the Guilford defense, Manor carried the ball 19 times for 94 of the team's 227 rushing yards.

The series, tied at one game apiece, moves to Philadelphia today. You'd be doing yourself a great disfavor to miss it. As for the faculty picks below, a few interesting sidelights are necessary. English prof Cynthia Lewis, favoring the mystical side of baseball (she tells me she never steps on the foul lines when visiting the pitcher) chose Philadelphia in seven because, “My best friend moved from Baltimore to Philadelphia, and seven is a mystical number.” Tom Kazee reluctantly chose the Phils in seven as well. Perhaps Will Terry made the most astute observation when he chose seven games. “It'll run all the way to the end; it’s all rigged.”

Midnight Madness
Just as I was getting over my college basketball withdrawal symptoms, Bobby Hussey’s Midnight Madness is going to push me back into the netherworld. Tonight those amazin’ Wildcats take the court in their first official practice of the 1983-84 season. The basketball program’s slogan this year is “Davidson Basketball... More Than Rebounds and Jump Shots.” Rafael Hernandez, who has dubbed himself “Uncle Slam,” has added to the slogan, “It’s a dunk festival.” Regardless of what the season’s like, tonight will in fact be a dunk festival. Student dunk teams can be signed up with Mike Rodriguez in the ticket office.

Academic Bookies Call Series
Alberto Hernandez-Chiroldes (Spanish): O's in 6
Lance Stell (Philosophy): O's in 6
Earl MacCormac (Philosophy): Phils in 7
Jason Thompson (Economics): Phils in 7
Cynthia Lewis (English): Phils in 7
Karl Plank (Religion): Wheeze Kids (Phils) in 6
Lauren Yoder (French): Phils in 6

Frank Ivey led the Wildcat harriers, earning All-District honors for the second consecutive year by placing third overall. Ivey also earned a spot on the starting line at the NAIA national championship meet in Kenosha, Wisconsin on Nov. 19. Ivey did not have an easy time earning his laurels, however. Two days before the race, he developed a frustrating case of stomach cramps. “I was so uncomfortable during my training runs on Thursday and Friday that I had to stop on several occasions,” recalled Ivey.

Manor also scored two first-half touchdowns on runs of 5 and 3 yards. Spears was awarded the game ball by the coaching staff in recognition of his outstanding play.Winners will be judged on crowd applause. When the team takes the court at 12:01 a.m., though, the real dunk festival begins. Of course, there will be Kenny Wilson (perhaps the most vicious dunker in the Southern Conference) and Uncle Slam himself, but there will also be freshman slammers Anthony “Ace” Tanner and 5'11” Caryl Dawson. You'll also get to see for the first time freshman Chris Hememan. Other returnees include Tom Franz, Frank “Daddy J” Johnson, Jim McConkey, Gerry Born, Ted Wolfe, Pepper Bego, Ken Niebuhr, and Billy Naso. The schedule of events is as follows. The doors of Johnston Gym will open at 10:30 p.m. on October 14. The first 200 fans through the door will receive coupons for a free dinner. There'll be plenty of other freebies as well — t-shirts, bumper stickers, etc. Between 11:00 and 12:00 there’ll be the slam dunk contest and Bealer Wholesaler’s Second Annual Mattress Stacking Contest. Good luck. At 12:01 a.m. on the 15th, the season starts.

Saturday Soccer and Football

At 11:30 a.m. Saturday, the soccer team will play its most important game thus far against archrival Marshall. The Thundering Herd, led by forward Andy Zulauf, are the chief competition for the Northern Division crown. They need your support, and at 8-1-1, they deserve it. At 1:30, the football team hosts tough South Carolina State in a rare home appearance. Although S.C. State is doubtlessly a better team on paper, they are erratic, and the Cats do play well against them. So now that midterms are behind us, get out and have some fun!

IMAC Rushes SPEs

There’s been quite a change from the old days (last year), when the mere mention of “SPE” was enough to instill the fear of social death in anyone who happened to be around. This year, though, in their newfound home, the Vail Commons, the SPEs are out to change their image and are rushing just about anything that moves, which brings us to this week in IMAC flickerball. Rushing in particular, and defense in general, have not been the SPEs' strong suit. Ken Howarth, however, with his ballet dancer-like grace, is one to watch. Some even say he evokes memories of former flickerballer great, Bob “Tito” Finch, whose fleetness of foot has saved him from trouble many a time, but once. It’s been rumored that the SPEs' offense was computer-programmed by SPE legend Hunter Monroe, but that after the first game all the plays were lost from the 750’s memory bank when Hunter forgot his password.

Speaking of rumors, a very reliable source leaked this week that there may be a Filthy Amazon — Vegetables matchup in store later this season. For my money, I'd take the Zons and give The Vegetables 40 points. The Zons in their last time out annihilated some team 32-0, which Czar Soud informs me is phenomenal. Emily Davis caught three TD passes and Sue Hilton, whom Soud likens to Tony Dorsett, turned some incredible runs. Look for the Zons to take on KA Gold after blowing out the Veggies.

Richard Cole (English): Phils in 7
Thomas Kazee (Political Science): Phils in 7
Peter Krentz (History): Phils in 6
Randy Nelson (English): O's in 5
Janet Grigsby (Sociology): Phils in 7
Ruth Ault (Psychology): O's in 7
Will Terry (Dean of Students): O's in 7
Steve Soud (me): O's in 6

Led the senior captain. "I was weak during the race and had a hard time lifting my knees. I was lucky to be in the top three when we broke away from the rest of the pack.” Ivey was able to maintain a sizable distance between himself and his closest pursuer for the last two miles of the five-mile course. Trey Jammes again finished second for the Cats as he placed 14th overall. Rounding out the scoring positions for Davidson were Frank Hague (19th), Jim Rogers (20th), and Greg Foreman (22nd). It was Hague’s first appearance in the scoring top five this year. “I really went for it,” said the satisfied sophomore. “I took out with the pack at the start and pushed the third mile. That was the key.” Hague’s time of 27 minutes 40 seconds was one of the best races he has ever run. Bob Watkins and Bryan Zielinski placed sixth and seventh for the Cats. For the fourth straight week, the Cats’ top seven finishers have changed. Ivey is the only runner to finish in the same scoring position in every meet. Next Saturday, the Cats run in the UNCC Invitational. The meet is also a dual meet with Johnson C. Smith.