The Davidsonian/Friday, April 1, 1983

Humes Committee Begins Investigation
By JOHN RUPPENTHAL

The Humanities Steering Committee has sent questionnaires to the entire faculty for suggestions on ways in which the Humanities program
can be revised and strengthened. Both Humanities staff members and other faculty members received questionnaires in an attempt to uncover
weaknesses in the 20-year-old program.

Shortly after the diverted Humanities controversy (see related March 18 Davidsonian article), a Humanities Steering Committee was formed consisting of
Second-year Director of Humanities and Professor of English Anthony Abbott; First-year Director of Humanities and Professor of Religion Max Polley;
Professor of History Peter Krentz; Professor of Classics Dirk French; Professor of German Hansford Epes; and Mellon Professor of Science
and Humanities Brian Shaw. The Committee’s first act was to send each member of the faculty the questionnaire.

Polley said an optimistic feeling exists among faculty members for revising the program, and he noted a consensus about changes
to be made. The Committee hopes to establish a timetable this spring to have a small group working this summer
that will “set up some overall planning so that when we start again in September, we’ll be ready to proceed”
in making all necessary revisions.

The Committee’s next step will be to send questionnaires to Seniors and Juniors who have taken the Humanities program and
to those Freshmen and Sophomores currently enrolled in the course. The opinions of Davidson graduates from the classes of 1979-82
will also be considered in the decision-making process.

According to Polley, much of the change will probably center on revisions in the focus and emphasis of course content
rather than the basic chronological approach that the program has adopted since its inception. Polley mentioned that one of the
recurring complaints from students and faculty is the lack of variation between semesters, a problem he hopes the revision process
will address.

As radical as all the talk of revision may sound, Polley said that it is actually a good time for
change and that a major adjustment was needed anyway for the switch from the trimester to the semester system in
the 1984-85 school year. “The syllabus changes continually in an evolutionary rather than a revolutionary manner,” said Polley, and though
the revisions the Staff is considering are greater than the year-to-year changes, “there will be no radical revision.”

Profile: Wade Barber ’67
By KELLY SUNDBERG

Wade Barber ’67 is making a career out of concern for people. As the Democratic candidate for Attorney General of
North Carolina, he hopes to take that career one step farther.

Barber graduated from Davidson with a major in economics. His college memories are of “good times and good friends,” and
he feels that his Davidson liberal arts education prepared him well to be a law student and good lawyer. “I
chose the legal profession not only because it would be challenging intellectually, but also because it would be a way
of dealing with people and their problems — and helping to resolve them,” Barber said.

Barber graduated from the University of North Carolina Law School in 1970, and took a job as a staff lawyer
with the Mecklenburg County Legal Aid Association. In 1971 he returned to his hometown of Pittsboro to practice law. Barber
ran successfully for District Attorney of Chatham and Orange counties (which include Chapel Hill) in 1977. While politics had always
interested Barber (he helped organize a Young Democrats Club his freshman year at Davidson), he

Eight Students Win Staley Scholarships
By DUNCAN FRASER

The Chaplain’s Office, in coordination with the Thomas F. Staley Foundation, recently announced the eight winners of Staley Summer Service
Scholarships. The stipends of the scholarship range up to $500 and are designated for Christian volunteer work. The eight winners
are Lindsay Biddle ’83, Craig Detweiler ’85, Keith Evans ’85,Sally Hughes ’84, Gary McDonald *83, Mark Tully ’84, Christine Seel
’84, and Tracy Thompson ’83. The eight winners will serve in Christian volunteer work around the world. Biddle plans a
long-term commitment to mission work in Alaska. Detweiler will serve as a counselor of a Young Life youth caravan to
Colorado this summer. Evans and Tully plan to work with the Youth Ministry of the Presbyterian Church. Hughes will be
in a Methodist Davidson), he had not anticipated a career in politics. “I didn’t run for District Attorney because it
is a political office. I felt that as a lawyer I could work — as a professional — to change
and improve the criminal justice system,” he said. Barber defines the criminal justice system as “a just way to deal
with wrongs done to one person by another” — he believes people should be its primary concern. As District Attorney
he has implemented programs which he believes have made the court system more responsive to the people involved. “Victims and
witnesses are people involved in a people’s process,” he said. One area on which he has concentrated is a rape
prosecution program, which coordinated the work of police, hospitals, and rape crisis centers in dealing sensitively with the rape victim,
rather than making her a “further victim of the court process.” As an administrator, Barber set a goal of “cleaning
up court backlog — getting rid of cases which didn’t belong in the criminal court system.” Barber set up a
Citizen Volunteer Mediator program, in which trained volunteers handle disputes which may be settled appropriately out of court. The program
is now imitated in almost every area of North Carolina, received the 1981 Governor’s Award for best Criminal justice volunteer
program, and is nationally recognized. Barber’s decision to run for Attorney General comes from the same source as his interest
in law: “the Attorney General’s office offers further opportunity for me to deal with society’s problems as a professional —
to improve the quality of people’s lives.” Barber’s goals, if he is elected to the Attorney General’s office, include “providing
leadership and coordination for the state’s criminal justice system,” actively representing the interests of the people of North Carolina, and
continuing the state’s tradition of clean government. He wants to “make the system more responsive to the people.” Barber is
going to the grassroots for campaign support. “I’m traveling around the state, speaking with people.” He expects broad-based financial support
as well: “I don’t rely on a certain segment of the voters for campaign contributions.” For now, Barber is not
looking beyond the state Attorney General’s office: “As a lawyer who wants to serve people, resolve conflict in society, and
improve quality of life, the Attorney General’s office offers the most opportunity to do that.”

College Chaplain Charlie Summers Scandinavian Mission Caravan, leading worship services throughout Scandinavia. McDonald plans a long-term commitment to the mission
field in Kenya, where he will teach English. Seel will serve as a volunteer at the Presbyterian Medical Center in
Chon-Ju, Korea. Thompson will go to Jackson, Miss. this summer to work with Voice of Calvary, an inner-city, interracial ministry
to the poor. Thompson worked at VOC over Spring break as a volunteer through the Davidson Christian Fellowship. College Chaplain
Charlie Summers said that the Scholarships are designed “to encourage college students considering doing missions volunteer work. Hopefully some students
will enjoy their work enough to be led into the ministry.” The Staley Foundation also endowed a lecture series at
Davidson in 1979. Since then, more than 100 Christian colleges have received similar endowments. Both Thomas F. Staley, Sr. and
Thomas F. Staley, Jr. attended Davidson College.

Wade Barber ‘67 is a candidate for N.C. Attorney General office: “As a lawyer who wants to serve people, resolve
conflict in society, and improve quality of life, the Attorney General’s office offers the most opportunity to do that.”
