Free Ideas in the Letters Section

To the Editor:

We are writing to report what happened to us late last Thursday night as a result of our letter to the editor (January 27, Davidsonian). The events which took place were unfortunate and, we hope, unusual.

An SGA representative approached the Davidsonian, asking to see our letter and requesting that it be edited or temporarily withheld from publication.

—At 12:30 a.m. Friday morning, the Editor contacted us, informing us of the situation. He chose to print the letter unchanged.

—Believing that the matter had been settled, we were surprised by a 1:30 a.m. phone call from the SGA representative. He asked that we reconsider our position, but we remained unconvinced by his arguments.

—A Davidson faculty member then called and asked us to hold the letter for a week so that political repercussions might be avoided.

—Although we were still skeptical, we agreed to a last-minute (3:00 a.m.) meeting to discuss the issue further. Upon careful consideration of all the known reasons for and against publication, we decided that the letter should, in fact, be printed.

We have tried to understand why these events took place. At present, however, we are truly in a state of confusion and disbelief. We cannot understand why anyone would choose to interfere in the free expression of our opinion. While we realize that those opposed to our opinion are as entitled to free expression as we are, we question the propriety of their actions. Our prime concern is that the free and open exchange of ideas not be threatened.

Laura Petrou ’83
Hal Martin ’83

Dog Problems

To the Editor:

Okay, so maybe I haven’t kept up with my taxes and I don’t like puppies, but I put out a fine literary magazine, you have to admit. Well, that is, almost “fine.” Unfortunately, my dog ate the layout sheets after my infant baby brother chewed on them because my mom accidentally washed them; consequently, there are a few slip-ups (can you believe this guy who calls himself an editor?). Regrettably, in the winter 1982-83 publication of Hobart Park, Eric Long was inadvertently not credited on pages seventy and seventy-one for the reproduction of his six color photographs entitled “Scenes from Mexico.” There was only one other mistake. On page ninety-six, the copy on the twelfth line of the text should read “He always gives that sort of reaction whenever you open . . .”

Thank you. SELAH!

Eric Fichtner ’83
Editor, Hobart Park

The Mail

Datsun Damaged

To the Editor:

Well now, I hate to say it, but I have to deal with the serious stuff in this little letter. Sometime Monday afternoon, January 31, some highly impolite person(s) took the opportunity of my not zealously guarding my vehicle to give it a new sculptural effect on the passenger side rear fender wall. The vehicle struck is a light blue, 1982 Datsun Long Bed Pick-up with a black camper top. It was parked at the end of the row in the visitor’s parking.Lot across the street from Cunningham Fine Arts Center. It is perhaps superfluous for me to mention that I would appreciate any information concerning the accident, so I won’t. If anyone wants to get in touch with me, my number is 7231, my P.O. Box 4167.

Felicitations,
Eric Fichtner ’83

Parking Problems
To the Editor:

I am writing to inform you of a bad experience I had with the Davidson security department. Recently I parked my car in the small parking lot between the gym and tennis courts. Since all the spaces were taken, I parked in the corner of the lot pointing toward Duke dormitory—halfway on the pavement and halfway on the grass. When I returned to my car four days later, I found three $5 tickets dated on consecutive days. Since I felt this to be unfair, I questioned Chief of Security Hughes about the action. I explained to him that I have parked in that spot on numerous occasions, as have others I know of, and, in half a year, never heard of anyone getting a ticket for doing so. I also told him that one ticket should have been sufficient to get the point across. He responded that I would have to pay for all three tickets because there is a rule which says that if a student owns a car on campus, he or she must check on it every 24 hours. That was the first I had heard of the rule, but I don’t doubt that it exists. I do feel, though, that the police force should use more discretion in enforcing it. They surely don’t enforce all the rules all the time, and it would seem that when they are just beginning to ticket a violation they would not use the 24-hour rule. The Davidson Security Department, Chief Hughes specifically, has unrestricted authority. They can, therefore, decide whether or not to cross the fine line which separates benevolent dictatorship from tyranny. My own experience, as well as those of others to whom I have talked, has convinced me that they have crossed that line. I propose that if they do not loosen up somewhat on their enforcement in the near future, an effort should be made to set up an appeals board to balance the law enforcement power somewhat and to represent students’ interests. But as matters stand now, I guess I’ll just have to pay the fifteen bucks.

George Strickland ’84

Poem
To the Editor:

The little damn ants in Belk
They’re in my sink, and I pick them out one by one
I think they like my toothpaste
Damn things don’t even have teeth.
Little fluorine ants
They call my room base, my
Sink their battleship
And I can’t even charge
Rent from little ants
Damn things go home.

Bret B. Logan ’83

And marvelous gifts
Heart boxes
Pomander—
SUCH A OFFER WE HAVE FOR YOU
The greatest selection of valentines anywhere
Brass Crystal—Porcelain
Sweet reminders
14 E. Main St.
Davidson

Elegant Season

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 4 February 1983