The Davidsonian / Friday, April 29, 1983

Computer Services Director Robert DeSieno Recommends Ban on Organizations’ Computer Use

By DAVID RESNIK

Computer Services Director Robert DeSieno recommended earlier this week that student organizations not be allowed to use the Prime 750 Computer because the computer “ought to be used for instructional and research” purposes. DeSieno suggested that student organizations purchase and use their own “micro computer network” to carry out their operations. He said he wanted to prevent student organizations from becoming dependent on the Prime 750 because once students started using the computer, it would be an “irreversible process.”

Chemistry Professor and Associate Dean of the Faculty J.N. Burnett, who is in charge of faculty computer policy, will consider DeSieno’s recommendation and pass it on to Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann after making his own judgments, which will not happen until the end of April, said DeSieno.

A few weeks ago, SGA President Hunter Monroe sent a letter to more than fifteen campus organizations in order to “find out what need campus organizations have for computer resources.” Monroe says the letter suggested how organizations might use computers, but it didn’t specify which computer (the administrative computer or the Prime 750) the organizations would use.

In a letter to Monroe on March 11, College President Samuel Spencer said that it “will be possible for student organizations to have access” to the administrative unit as soon as Prime comes up with a procedure “that will solve the security problem” on the administrative unit.

Monroe said the skills students learn from using computers for campus organizations would be the skills they would “be more likely to use” after graduation than academic computing skills. He said the College should be committed to computer literacy, not just to academic computing. He hopes that a policy on computer use will be worked out soon and that it can be implemented next fall.

SGA Revises By-Laws

Election campaign rules were the focus of by-law revisions at Tuesday's SGA meeting. Changes which the SGA approved concerned:

- Posters and flyers. Candidates for Honor Council, Defense Advisor, and Student Solicitor may not use posters or flyers in their campaigns. Any candidate violating this new regulation will automatically be disqualified. The SGA recommended that candidates go door to door to announce candidacy.
- Candidate list. The SGA will publish a list of all candidates for all Honor Council positions within 48 hours after the candidate meeting held a week before the election.
- Election funding. Candidates in any SGA-run election may spend no more than $20.00 on campaigning, and candidates for class, dorm, or off-campus positions may spend no more than $15.00.

In other by-law changes, two seniors and one junior will now be elected to the Review Board, a revision in accordance with changes the Honor Council made earlier this year. Another by-law revision now requires that students holding Senate-appointed offices submit written minutes on their committee's activities once per term to the SGA President.

Humphries wins Derieux Research Award

By DALE WITHROW

Sophomore Biology Major Chris Humphries has won the Derieux Research...Award in the Category of Organismal Biology from the Collegiate Academy of the North Carolina Academy of Science. Humphries attended the Academy's annual meeting at Chapel Hill on April 9 and presented a 15-minute talk culminating his research with spiderlings (young spiders) at Davidson. Humphries began working with Biology Professor Donald Kimmel last year. He submitted a grant proposal to NCAS during the spring term. Humphries won a $90 grant; Kimmel believes Humphries is the first freshman to receive such a grant at Davidson. Humphries further pursued his research during the current academic year. He explored the question of whether the spiderlings’ orientation on their webs was influenced by gravity or web morphology. Humphries answered the question in his paper at Chapel Hill entitled: “The change in attitude with respect to gravity of Nephila clavipes spiderlings.” He concluded that web morphology influenced the spiderlings’ orientation. According to Humphries, only fifteen minutes were allotted because the CANCAS judges wanted presenters to “organize and present data concisely and thoroughly — ideally in ten minutes. And allow five minutes for discussion questions from the judges.” When asked about winning the award, Humphries said, “Well, I don’t want to sound corny, but I was surprised! But getting a paper published (in Canas) will be great for med school. That's very important to me.” As for Kimmel’s response, Humphries decided to announce his award lightly. He entered Kimmel’s office one day as if nothing happened. Then after a “Well?” from Kimmel, Humphries expressed how he should have prepared a couple more days for the presentation but hoped he would accept honorable mention. Kimmel congratulated him. Then he broke the real news. Kimmel was ecstatic. Humphries plans to pursue further research based on his recent findings during his next two years at Davidson.

Student Injured in Moped Accident
By DAN VOORHIS

Junior Year Abroad student Chris Gunn was hit by a car in Montpellier, France last Friday afternoon. He underwent surgery last Saturday to put a pin in his left ankle, and tests are now being conducted to determine the extent and seriousness of his injuries. Gunn may have sustained multiple fractures in his leg, according to senior Mary Ann Gelly. He has also experienced numbness in his fingers and an inflamed eye which may not have been a result of the accident. Tests on both the eye and leg should be completed by Monday. The accident occurred when Gunn was riding a moped owned by fellow student junior Elizabeth Smiley. A car behind him honked, seeking to pass. Misunderstanding the signal, Gelly turned to the left, and the car hit him while passing. The impact knocked Gunn across the car’s hood, through the windshield, and into the driver’s lap. Gunn's father, Dr. James W. Gunn of Peekskill, New York, flew to Montpellier last Saturday morning. If the test results are encouraging, Gunn could return to his home by late next week. Therapy will probably be necessary. Depending on his recovery, he may return to Davidson next fall.