2 _ Friday, October 21, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Mountain Musician Will Perform

David Holt, host of the Nashville Network cable television series “Fire on the Mountain,” will present a concert of old-time
mountain music and storytelling October 21 at 8 and 10:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Holt brings the spirit of
the Southern Appalachian Mountains with tales told and tunes sung and played on many unusual instruments including jew’s harp, harmonica,
dulcimer, banjo, guitar, and spoons. Holt lives in the mountains of western North Carolina, a community rich in traditional music.
But he wasn’t born into it. Central Texas was his home, where the only music in his family was five
generations of bone players. It was while in college at the University of California at Santa Barbara — from which
he received his B.A., Magna Cum Laude, in Creative Studies — that he first became aware of traditional music.

Davidson to Celebrate Homecoming Oct. 29

Davidson College will welcome alumni and friends to the campus Oct. 29 for its annual homecoming celebration. A full schedule
of events is planned, including the dedication of a new three-hole golf facility, named for trustee Howard W. Covington of
Greensboro. The new facility is located adjacent to Davidson’s baseball diamond, on the north side of the campus. The Covington
Open Tournament will follow, offering alumni the chance to compete for numerous prizes. Also at 9 a.m., the current women’s
tennis team will host a continental breakfast and a round-robin tournament for alumni tennis players. The event commemorates 10 years
of women’s tennis at Davidson. Reunion class receptions will be held at 10:30 a.m., Homecoming Alumni Luncheon in Vail Commons
at noon. Homecoming athletic competitions include an 11:30 a.m. soccer game against Furman at Sprunt Field and a 2 p.m.
football game, also against Furman, at Richardson Field. Fraternities and eating houses will host receptions after the football game. More
than 50 graduates who were prominent in Davidson’s theatre program will attend a champagne reception and dinner before watching a
performance of Davidson’s current production, You Can’t Take It With You. The play will begin at 8 p.m. in Hodson
Hall. Special exhibits of costumes and photos from former productions will highlight the department’s history. At 9 p.m. there will
be a campus-wide dance at Vail Commons, with music by the Spongetones. Registration for alumni will begin at 8:30 a.m.
at Vail Commons. Special attention is being given this year to alumni who graduated during the past five years. The
Class of 1978 will jump the gun with a reunion cookout Friday night, and for alumni who can’t wait until
Saturday, there will be Friday night concerts at 10 and 11:30 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union
by “Flight 108,” a jazz band. Ticket and other information about any homecoming events is available by calling the alumni
office at 892-2000, extension 110.

Christmas Gift Fund Chosen

This year’s Christmas Gift Fund will go to the Gethsemane Tutorial Program at the Davidson Community Center. The program offers
after-school help to slow learners in grades three through six. The Davidson Y Corps provides volunteer help, but the tutorial
program desperately needs funds to operate in 1984. $10,000 is needed to run a successful tutoring program, including the expenses
of two paid teachers, aides, and materials. The Chapel Committee is planning a Campus Flea Market to raise funds for
the 1983 Campus Christmas Gift Fund. The money raised will be presented to an organization or group which the campus
feels assistance is most needed. Members of the Chapel Committee will come by dorm rooms within the next three weeks
to collect any items students wish to donate. T-shirts, posters, and any other items will be greatly appreciated.

Nominations Taken for Goodwin-Exxon Award

The Goodwin-Exxon Award shall ordinarily be presented to one student from the sophomore class, one student from the junior class,
and one student from the senior class, chosen by a committee made up of students, faculty, and administrativeStaff on the
basis of his/her quality of life in the campus-community during the preceding year. The Goodwin-Exxon Award is designed to recognize
qualities other than unusual accomplishments in scholarship, leadership, and sports. Its purpose is to select students who typify the kind
of cooperative support of campus activities and warm, caring relationships with fellow students, which many observers have remarked upon as
being important elements of the campus lifestyle at Davidson College. The award shall take the form both of a plaque
recognizing the recipient and of a cash grant, a part of which the individual is asked to contribute to a
charity of her/his choice. To receive the Goodwin-Exxon Award, a student should represent the highest standards of Davidson College in
character, good sportsmanship, friendliness, consideration for others, high ethical standards, faithfulness to duty, enthusiasm, tolerance, and a concern for the
unfortunate. Last year’s recipients were Brad Mullis, Pete Skillern, and Debra Williams. Nomination forms may be picked up in the
Dean of Students Office, the Union desk, and the Library. The deadline is October 27, 1983, 5:00 p.m. Forms should
be returned to the Dean of Students Office.

Yugoslav Dance Troupe to Perform Oct. 24

The Yugoslavian dance troupe Frula will perform at 8:15 p.m. Oct. 24 in Love Auditorium as part of the Davidson
College Artist Series. Founded in 1964 by Dragoslav Dzadzevic, former artist-director of the Branko Krsmanovic Ensemble, Frula has become one
of the most successful ethnic ensembles in the world. Its premiere in Belgrade led to a Central American tour that
was hailed as a triumph. Additional tours followed, and the company is now making its fifth national tour of the
United States, winning widespread acclaim for the brilliant theatricality of its song and dance performances. Frula consists of some 40
dancers, acrobats, folk instrumentalists, and singers whose average age is 21. Many of them were trained at the Frula School
of Dance in Belgrade, which Dzadzevic organized in 1969 to ensure a supply of young dancers for his company. The
company’s dances encompass many moods from the seven republics that comprise modern-day Yugoslavia. Critics have praised the group for its
brilliant costumes, its exuberance, and its energy. Admission will be free to season ticket holders of the Artists Series, and
remaining seats are available for $7 each at the box office in the Davidson College Union. Box office hours are
2 to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. Further information is available by calling the College Union at 892-2000, extension 140.

Drama To Present “You Can’t Take It With You”

Martin Vanderhof’s living room is a place where meals are
