The Davidsonian / Friday, September 30, 1983

Mollenkott Discusses Feminine Biblical Imagery

By ROXANNA GUILFORD and ANNE LOFQUIST

Freedom, power, women’s roles, and the various Biblical images of God were the topics of discussion when Staley Lecturer Virginia
Mollenkott visited Davidson Monday and Tuesday. The first of two major lectures, “Biblical Imagery of God as Female, And Why
it Matters,” advanced the concept of a non-sex-specific deity. Before delving into the implications of her topic, Mollenkott was quick
to state the perspective from which she was speaking. Mollenkott terms herself an Evangelical Feminist, basing her beliefs in the
equality of the human race upon scripture. Taken contextually, the Bible “undergirds equality,” she said. The basis of this is
her belief that all are created in the image of God. This supported her rejection of either male or female
dominance.

The concept of a male God is at the root of our patriarchal society, Mollenkott said. While she did not
argue against the images of Father God, she strongly advocated the use of other imagery, including female and nature imagery.
Some of the other Biblical images of God which Mollenkott discussed included Mother, midwife, housewife, woman in labor, lactating woman,
mother eagle, mother bear, river, and rock. Her case was not for changing God but for delimiting God — freeing
God from our preconceived notions. God, according to Mollenkott, is He, She, and It. “God is greater than what we
can say about Him, Her, or It,” she said.

Mollenkott pointed out that God as a father figure began as an extremely effective metaphor palatable to the patriarchal Hebrew
society. However, as Mollenkott pointed out, “Use a metaphor long enough [and] it sounds like truth.” What has resulted is
a linguistic idol — the image of God as only male. If God is clearly male, Mollenkott reasoned, then women
become second-class citizens because they do not sufficiently resemble God. Mollenkott observed that the Pope has refused to allow women
to become priests for this very reason. So just as racial discrimination suppresses people based on the color of their
skin, Mollenkott said sexual discrimination suppresses people based on the shape of their skin. The image of a male God
therefore has immense political power.

Although the Bible (2 Peter 1:4) maintains that “all are partakers of the divine spirit,” the divine worth of women
is ignored, Mollenkott claimed. She viewed this as the basis of much of the violence against women. If men would
acknowledge that women are created in the image of God, she said, they would be far less likely to rape
and exploit them. She carried this idea into the area of God in nature images. Once humans see that the
divine spirit is present in the land and water, they will be less likely to rape and exploit the earth.

Since womanhood was considered twice removed from the divine, women were encouraged to devalue their femaleness, Mollenkott said. At one
time women were promised that their reward for a spiritual life would be becoming men in heaven. Mollenkott condemned no
one for the devaluing of women through the ages, but she did provide some reasons for its prevalence. One is
the predominance of male images of God in scripture. She attributed this to a patriarchal society and to the fact
that presenting God with dual sexuality would have confused many people. There was the risk of confusing one God with
dual sexuality with two Godheads. Some “fault” for the numerous male images lies with the Hebrew scribes who would shift
to masculine pronouns to show reverence. Even milk cows became “male” when they had contactwith the Ark of the Covenant.
The most astonishing thing, Mollenkott says, is that any female images made it through at all. While Mollenkott’s first lecture
dealt with freedom from stagnant notions of God and women’s relationship to the divine, her second one concerned freedom from
violence and dominance. The thesis of her lecture, “The Biblical Uses of Power,” was that hope for the future depends
upon rethinking societal goals from competition to cooperation. We must come to view power as “power with” each other rather
than “power over” each other, she said. Taken to its full potential, this power can lead us from patriarchy to
mutuality, Mollenkott said.

Mollenkott discussed five areas of violence in society. The first, intrapersonal, appears to be the root of most other forms
of violence. It involves self-hatred and an inability to trust the grace and love of God. Interpersonal violence manifests itself
in numerous ways but is rooted in one human’s viewing another as worthless. For these two types of violence, Mollenkott
considered the ability to love central to any solution. We must be able to love and accept ourselves in order
to reach out to others. Additionally, we must be open to love and empowering. Once we have reached this point,
we can enter mutual, cooperative relationships.

Mollenkott said violence does not limit itself to the personal level, however, so personal solutions are not enough. She examined
three other forms of violence. Structural violence involves society’s injustice which estranges certain segments and allows poverty and violence to
become entrenched. Ecological violence is the rape of nature for the exploitation of its natural resources. The final type, military
violence, is a type of violence for which $1 billion is spent every 15 hours, according to Mollenkott. While providing
no solutions to global problems, Mollenkott suggested such things as international cooperation, the yielding of international sovereignties, and the development
of global authorities to protect resources.

Career Symposium Draws Business Leaders, Alumni
By DAVID McGEE

Jobs are tough to find these days, even if you know what kind of career you want. The Career Symposium,
which will be held next Monday through Wednesday, will focus on issues of choosing and establishing careers. “Davidson students are
looking more towards careers after graduation. The Career Symposium is an answer to that need,” said chairman Steve MacMillan. “This
is a great opportunity for students to meet people who have made a career in the fields which students are
interested in.”

The symposium, sponsored by the Student Government Association and the North Carolina Fellows, will begin Monday at noon with a
luncheon in the Commons with David Waddill ’81 of First Union Bank in Charlotte and Debbie Carlton ’81 of Chase
Manhattan Bank in New York, N.Y. They will speak on the value of their Davidson education in their careers.

Tuesday’s activities will start with a luncheon in the 900 Room at 12:30 p.m. Carrol Willingham of Robinson/Humphery/American Express will
speak on women in the working world and women in non-traditional careers. She is noted for her success in a
primarily male-dominated field. Wednesday's 900 Room luncheon will feature a practice interview session with David McClintock, executive recruiter for First
Union Bank in Charlotte, and Sherburne Laughlin ’83.

At 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. on Tuesday and Wednesday, speakers from business, public service, and professional communities will present
hour-long workshops in Chambers. A schedule of times and room numbers will be posted in the lobby of Chambers. The
workshops will cover a variety of topics: television, law, theater arts, publishing, the ministry, insurance, foreign service, banking, sports medicine,
and others. There will be a wine and cheese reception each day at 5 p.m. in the Commons for the
guest speakers, faculty, and students.

Speakers expected to attend are Rolfe Neil, publisher of The Charlotte News and Observer; James Holshouser, Davidson alumnus, attorney and
former governor of North Carolina; Boris Sellers, executive director of Spirit Square in Charlotte; Julie Thordarson, director of corporate communications
for Barclays-American; Dr. Bobby Alford, dean of the Baylor University medical school; and retired army General Harry Griffith.
