Ticket Policy Revised: ‘Raising hell’ ends seats behind opponent bench

By JEFFREY MANN ’84

Students may no longer get blocks of more than six for seats behind the opposing team’s bench for basketball games
at the Charlotte Coliseum. Dean of Students Will Terry said this step was taken because students were “raising hell and
acting bush-league.”

The Board of Trustees discussed students’ behavior at the Notre Dame game when they were here last week to discuss
the search for a new College president (See related news article). According to Terry, one Trustee said, “After seeing Davidson
students at the Notre Dame game, I don’t see why we should listen to them in looking for a new
president.” Terry declined to identify the trustee, other than to say he was on the Executive Committee.

College President Sam Spencer became concerned at the Davidson—Furman game on December 16 about students’ behavior behind the bench. “Apparently
they were not only trying to drown out the coach’s instructions to his team during time-outs, but they were shouting
obscenities as well,” he said. Spencer wrote a memo to Terry, Wildcat Club Director Sandy Carnegie, and Athletic Director Ed
Farrell asking what could be done. Carnegie decided to prohibit students from that area. SGA President Tim Johnston met with
President Spencer and worked out the compromise of restricting large blocks.

Carnegie said they have not set policy for next year’s games, but were considering reserving the section behind the opposing
team’s bench for the fans of that team. “We’ll be glad to talk with students before we set the policy,”
he said. Terry said no fines or disciplinary proceedings were contemplated for the students involved.

Trustees Meet Students, Faculty, Administrators to Voice Opinions

By DUNCAN FRASER ’86

The Davidson Board of Trustees held separate meetings last Friday, January 7, with students, administrators, and faculty to hear various
opinions concerning the selection of a new college president.

President Samuel Spencer announced on December 7, 1982, his retirement from office effective July 1, 1983. Spencer will become President
of the Virginia Foundation for Independent Colleges (VFIC), a fund-raising group for fourteen private colleges in Virginia.

The Board of Trustees will use the opinions as guidance in the selection process of the new president. The Davidson
Constitution requires that Trustees “... have consultations with faculty, students, and the Administrative staff in carrying out their Committee function.”

Faculty, administrators, and students all agreed that the new President must have a balance of campus involvement and outside fundraising.
Likewise, all groups want a President who will continue in the basic tradition of the College and will be able
to guide it through the 1980s.

A group of ten Trustees met with about 30 students in an open meeting in Chambers Gallery for just over
an hour. Small groups of Trustees also met with the Faculty and the Administrative staff in the Faculty Lounge and
the Rare Book Room, respectively. Representatives of campus minority and women’s groups urged that the new president be committed to
minority concerns. Likewise, some students seriously questioned the constitutional requirement that the President be a committed Christian, specifically a member
of the Presbyterian Church of the United States. Several trustees responded that Christian commitment was viewed by the Board as
an integral part of Davidson. Neither the faculty nor staff expressed any problems with this part of the Constitution.

The faculty discussed the selection process itself and some worried that the push for an immediate choice might lower standards.
Some professors...questioned allowing a student committee to interview candidates, but most of the faculty agreed that student participation would not
hinder the selection process. More importantly, the faculty was concerned with continuing an international focus and maintaining the financial strength
of the College.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 January 1983

The faculty felt so strongly that it suggested that the President come from a business rather than academic background. On
a show of hands, approximately 85 percent of the faculty agreed with this view. One faculty member suggested a President
who is a “fundraiser with a vision, who sees a relationship between the present and future of Davidson's students.” Finally,
the faculty stressed its concerns over the transition period once a president is chosen.

Meanwhile, the administrative staff met and, contrary to the faculty, requested an academician, because they felt it was necessary by
precedence. Several members of the administration asked for “... an accessible, academician / churchman who is familiar with modern management
and can raise money.” Financial consideration was also important to the staff as many see the need for a “first-class
professional manager.” However, scholarship should be the first criterion.

The Board will now work through committees to either find a new president immediately or appoint an interim president until
a permanent choice can be found.

News Shorts

Q&C Elections Postponed
By TIM MCGAUGHEY ’83

The Student Government Association Senate voted unanimously to reschedule elections for the Quips and Cranks Editor until the fourth Tuesday
of Spring Term. Mark Oldenburg, Chancellor of the SGA, said that the SGA by-laws have been amended to provide for
a spring election for the yearbook editor. Filing date for candidates is the third Tuesday of spring and the election
will follow the next week. This student election will coincide with SGA elections for President and Vice-president.

Yearbook Editor Jim Reese went before the Media Board and requested the change. The postponement is necessary to better fit
their year-long schedule. This change postpones editor elections until after certain yearbook deadlines have passed. Thus, students will have greater
opportunity to judge the efforts of those candidates for Quips and Cranks editor.

Alumni Recital Slated

DAVIDSON -- William Aitken, organist and choirmaster at Trinity Presbyterian Church and Congregation Shaare Emeth in St. Louis, Mo., will
be featured in an alumni recital and vesper concert at 9 p.m. January 16 at Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The
program will include works by Leo Sowerby, Louis Claude D’Aquin, Henri Mulet, J.S. Bach, Franz Schmidt, Charles Tournemire, and Cesar
Franck.

Aitken graduated from Davidson in 1966, and went on to earn the master of sacred music degree from Union Theological
Seminary in New York. He is founder and director of “Bachfreunde,” a series of concerts sponsored jointly by Trinity Church
and the St. Louis Conservatory for the performance of cantatas and chamber music of J.S. Bach. In addition, he serves
on the executive committee of the St. Louis chapter of the American Guild of Organists, and is immediate past president
of the New Music Circle of St. Louis. Aitken recently served as vice president of the Friends of the University
City Library, editing a newsletter and helping to build a collection of musical scores. He directs an extensive program of
music at both the church and the temple, and maintains a full schedule of private students in piano and organ.

The performance, which is free to the public, also will be broadcast live on the Davidson College radio station, WDAYVN,
at 89.9 FM.
