The Davidsonian / Friday, April 29, 1983

News Analysis

‘Visions and Revisions’: A Patterson Court History

By ROSS HOLT

The current controversy over self-selection has a long, multifaceted history. The issues involved are not new; they have confronted class after class and periodically rise to the forefront of student life in impassioned discussion. The system has undergone many changes, both subtle and radical, and after years of “visions and revisions” the College has not yet found a solution to the problems of its social life.

If the evolution of the current confusion has a beginning (although minor questions had been raised about fraternities beginning with an 1894 petition calling for their abolition), it probably occurred during the spring of 1960. A group of fraternity men had gone inactive earlier that year to protest the first-week freshman rush and fraternity monopoly on campus social life.

Sophomore Rush

In response, the faculty (then the major day-to-day policymaking body) voted to postpone rush until sophomore year for the class of 1966. Though the Trustees overturned the faculty ruling, the questions the inactives raised still required answering. During 1961, the Inter-Fraternity Council worked with the fraternities on compromise proposals geared toward liberalizing the pledge process and making hazing less “objectionable.” The faculty agreed with the final compromise. That and the formation of a local campus club at Lingle Manor calmed the controversy, at least for two years.

In 1964, however, Robert Young, an administration official, recommended in a chapel speech that the College once again consider a sophomore rush. In addition, he suggested a policy of 100 percent affiliation and stated that any student had the right to receive fraternity bids. As a result, during the '64-65 school year the Student Council formed the Fraternity Study Committee which consisted of nine students, three administrators, and one member of the faculty. The committee offered two recommendations: one, a proposal calling for construction of new social houses and conversion of fraternities into non-selective social clubs; and the other a minority reaction more in line with the 100 percent affiliation policy.

Students Demonstrate

The Faculty Fraternity Evaluation Committee then reviewed the Fraternity Study Committee’s findings, and opted to offer the minority report for full and final faculty action. The faculty — by one vote — opposed the minority report and elected to institute the original committee’s more radical proposal. Upon the faculty vote, in April '65, pledge activities for the class of '69 were suspended indefinitely. Student response to the vote was quick and drastic. In a fraternity-planned demonstration, students expressed their dissatisfaction.

First of The Fraternity Evaluation Committee, having studied at length... has concluded that the fraternities have assumed a paramount and disproportionate role... We recommend that all national Greek letter social fraternities give official satisfaction that all Davidson students... are eligible for initiation. 
—Willis O. Jackson, SGA President, 1965

Arguments and responses are too familiar to be rehearsed here, but we are convinced that the system ... does, with some exception, place artificial yet substantial barriers between people.
—Blue Sky Subcommittee on Student Life, 1967

Enough time has already been spent formulating piecemeal, stop-gap measures designed only to save fraternities, not to solve the problem of social life at Davidson.
—Joe Murphy, Student Body President, 1969

Fraternities have and are making significant contributions to the lives of thousands of Davidson men... The silent majority of the alumni... will realize the Davidson they have known is a thing of the past; then their loyal support, both moral and financial, will be in jeopardy.
—Charles W. McCrary '24, 1971

There have been numerous studies of the fraternity system... most of which begin with statements to the effect that the fraternity system “has a long history,” and “has been studied extensively.”
—Report of the Commission on Social Patterns at Davidson

A system of self-selection may be fine for some students, but... it would be best if several fraternities were allowed to remain as they are now so that students could have as many alternatives to choose from as possible.
—Jim Cantrell '71, 1970

... But fraternity life isn’t as easy as it might look. During the next week, you will be faced with both hypocrisy and superficiality. You will see some of your friends hurt by rejection. This is the price of social life at Davidson.
—The Freshman Rush Guide, Peter Hobbie 1969If nothing else, the past decade has proved the futility of the cry for change within the system. In an orchestrated demonstration, over half the student body turned out for a torch-light march on the residences of then-Assistant Dean of Students Bob Jones and President Grier Martin. At Martin’s house, according to Davidsonian reports, then-chaplain Will Terry confronted the marchers and told them to move to Chambers where President Martin would speak to them. At Chambers, Martin talked with leaders of the demonstration and convinced them that a petition would be more effective than simply “making noise.” The organizers then called off the protest, and the crowd rapidly dispersed. The Trustees met near the end of the month and revised the faculty proposal. Though they removed the abolition of the fraternities, they also instituted a second-semester rush and gave the stamp of approval to the construction of new houses. The Trustees also suggested a continued examination of the problems. —The Davidsonian, 1970

To do this, the Social Life Evaluation Committee was formed during the 1965-66 school year. By February '66, the committee had collected reports from each fraternity and independent organization weighing the pros and cons of their positions in the social structure of the College. Based on this evidence, the committee again recommended that every student wanting a bid should get one. But the IFC rejected this proposal, and the two committees worked out a compromise called “100 percent social affiliation.” This meant that every student had the right to eat at a house, but a student could not become a national member of that house's fraternity without a bid. In October of 1967, the Trustees approved this policy. However, no one had yet answered the questions raised by the hurt of rejection.

Although student outcry quieted after the compromise, the entire college was caught in a major shifting of gears. In the Blue Sky report of April '67, the fundamental foci of the school were examined. The Blue Sky committee again suggested that houses become non-selective, and went further to recommend random assignment of freshmen to those houses. In addition, new President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. commissioned five committees made of students, faculty, and Trustees to complete a far-reaching study of the College. This report, called “Social Patterns at Davidson College,” stated in its section on social life that fraternities were desirable, but that the “basis of affiliation” should be the right of the freshmen. It also suggested that all Court houses should be non-selective eating clubs, implying that without houses the fraternities would simply fade away.

Other challenges faced the fraternities toward the end of the decade. In October 1969, due to declining membership and increasing national costs, Sigma Chi ended its national affiliation and went local, forming a short-lived eating house called the Munchies. The student body elected anti-fraternity activist Peter Hobbie SGA president by a 2-1 margin. Under Hobbie’s leadership, independents published “The Freshman Guide to Rush.” The scathing guide was distributed to all freshmen in January 1970. Additionally, factions for local affiliation and others for national affiliation within some fraternities came ever closer to open conflict.

Spencer Proposes Nonselectivity

Then, with divisive argument raging all around, President Samuel Spencer, in a September 1970 speech, officially proposed a completely non-selective social system in which freshmen would either self-select a house, or be randomly assigned to one. On October 16, the Trustees adopted Spencer's proposal. In reaction to the new system, 150 fraternity men and their dates demonstrated at the Homecoming football game, and then representatives of that group met with President Spencer to state their case. The arguments centered around perceptions of general student sentiment. Fraternity members accused the students working with the Trustees as being “biased against the status quo” and not representative of student opinion. The pro-selection forces countered that opinion, citing the elections of such candidates as Hobbie.

Once the Trustees’ decision was made, the Committee of 18 was formed. It consisted of Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty John Bevan, C. Shaw Smith, Dean of Students Richard Burts, Business Manager Robert Currie, the SGA officers, four fraternity presidents, professors Bliss, Kelton, Wolf, and McKelway, and two freshmen. The committee's job was to design procedures for the implementation of self-selection.

Next week: The reasons behind the 1971 change to self-selection and its transition to its current state.