2. Friday, November 11, 1983 / The Davidsonian

The Regionals tournament in February. Invitational tournaments may be in the offing at Georgia Tech, Tennessee, UNCC, and N.C. State while the team hopes for a NIT bid at Emory in March. Until then, keep an eye on the intramural tournament from the Green Room.

Summer Internship In Washington Offered

Applications are now available for a summer program of work and study in Washington, D.C., sponsored by the Department of Political Science. The eight-week program will begin shortly after the conclusion of the academic year in May, and run through mid-July. The 12 to 16 maximum students involved will serve as interns in a Washington-area office (e.g., congressional office, government agency, or interest group office) and enroll in a seminar offered by a Davidson faculty member in residence. Students who successfully complete the program will receive two course credits: one pass/fail credit for the internship and one regular credit for the seminar.

This program offers the advantage of a Davidson professor living in Washington during the program. The faculty member will coordinate activities, including placing students in internships, preparing and leading the seminar, monitoring student internship performance, and generally advising and assisting students. The program will be tailored to Davidson students’ needs, and the College will be able to monitor and control the quality of the program.

Interested students should contact Political Science professor Thomas Kazee (Chambers 327) for further information and application forms. Completed applications are to be submitted to the Department of Political Science by December 15, 1983.

Sacred Music Convocation Planned

William Albright, renowned concert artist of organ and piano, will be the visiting artist at Davidson's 24th annual Sacred Music Convocation here at Davidson. Albright is also known as an interpreter of classic ragtime and early jazz styles in addition to his originally styled church music. Also featured will be Arthur Lawrence, organist-choirmaster and associate professor of music at Davidson, and members of the Davidson music faculty, including Wilton Lawing and Joel Hagan.

Workshops will be held Friday at 10:30 a.m. in Hodson Hall on “The Spirit of American Rhythm” and at 3:30 p.m. on “Current Trends in Church Music.” A celebration of the Holy Eucharist will begin at 3:30 p.m. in Davidson College Presbyterian Church, featuring music performed by Welsh and Lawing. At 8:15 p.m., Albright will perform an organ recital.

Saturday's 9 a.m. workshop will address “New Music for the Church.” An 11 a.m. concert in Hodson Hall will include music by Albright, the Davidson College Concert Choir and Instrumental Ensembles, Lawing and Hagan. Persons interested in attending the workshop should call the Davidson College department of music at 892-2000, ext. 357, for information. All concerts are open to the public without charge.

Students, Faculty Receive Awards

The following persons were presented awards at Fall Convocation in Love Auditorium last Sunday:

Thomas Jefferson Award: R. Bruce Jackson.
Goodwin-Exxon Award: Kenneth W. Niebuhr, Margaret E. Barron, Mary P. Fant.

Davidson EMTs Available To Help

The Emergency Rescue Service of Davidson College is available 24 hours a day to answer emergency calls. Comprised of...21 trained and certified Emergency Medical Technicians, the Department of the Army Superior Cadet Awards: Andrew H. Myers, William E. David, Lauren A. Hightower. ERS has the essential equipment ordinarily carried on an ambulance. Their emergency telephone number, 892-3031, is manned by a registered nurse at the College infirmary. After receiving a call, the nurse dispatches the Rescue Service to the scene. Because most EMTs live on campus, they can be at campus locations within minutes.

A course will be taught winter term for all interested in becoming EMTs. The only fee will be textbook costs. Any group interested in a course in Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation can contact the ERS for information; the squad contains a trained CPR teacher willing to teach CPR methods.

College Bowl Varsity Opens Season

The College Bowl ’Cats started their varsity season last weekend by traveling to Rome, Georgia, to compete against teams from all over the Southeast. The team finished second despite starting three new players. College Bowl Driver Chris Blake piloted the team in style via the Dodge Omni to this round-robin tournament. Each team played on Friday night and Saturday morning to complete eight matches against teams such as Emory, Mercer, Georgia Tech, Tennessee, and the host, Berry College.

Playing their own distinctive brand of Keen Bowl, the 'Cats compiled a 7-1 record, averaging over 240 points per game and losing only to Emory. After eight matches, Emory was also 7-1, so a playoff match was necessary to decide the tournament champion. In a cliffhanger that included six lead changes, Emory answered the final question to win the match, 255-215, and the tournament.

Although the last match was a tough one to lose, the happy-go-lucky ’Cats surprised all the detractors who whispered “rebuilding year” when the Class of '83 graduated four College Bowlers. Peach Brothers Captain John “Eggman” Sisk made the all-tournament team, and the Eggman promises more excitement in the future.

1984-85 Semester Calendar Officially Adopted

The following calendar has been officially adopted for the Academic Year:

First Semester:
- Tuesday, August 28, 1984—Classes begin
- October 12—Fall break begins
- October 17—Classes resume
- November 22-23—Thanksgiving Break
- November 26—Classes resume
- Friday, December 14—Last day of classes
- Examinations—December 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21

Second Semester:
- Monday, January 14, 1985—Classes begin
- March 8—Spring Break begins at 5 p.m.
- Monday, March 18—Classes resume
- April 5—Good Friday Holiday
- Monday, May 6—Last day of class
- Final examinations—May 7, 8, 9, 10, 13, 14
- May 19—Commencement

NEW PERMANENT WAVE
HAIR DESIGNERS STUDIO
1/2 OFF - Order in advance—237 Catawba Ave. BAM
$5.00 off Wine & Beer by the case: Cost plus 10%
(in rear of the Southern Energy Building)
Keg beer: Cost plus 10%
MON-SAT 10 AM Until
Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St-Davidson, N.C
CHILDREN’S HAIRCUT & STYLE $5.00
No Appointment Necessary
Call 882-3129 or 892-4982
892-7521