14 Friday, May 6, 1983 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

Stay in Conference

The Southern Conference has meant a lot to Davidson athletics, but now Davidson may lose one of its longest-standing traditions. In its newly revised by-laws, the Southern Conference requires all conference members to compete for the Conference championship, which means that Davidson will have to play five Conference football games by 1985. At present, Davidson schedules only two such football games a year. If the Wildcats drop out of the SC, the College would have to join a new conference or go independent. The ACC is out for obvious reasons. The Sun Belt and Metro conferences would require Davidson teams to travel as far away as Florida and Alabama to play games. The MEAC (including University of Richmond, William and Mary) is primarily a basketball conference.

A main advantage to remaining in the Southern Conference is the proximity of all member schools. Moving to another conference would certainly increase transportation costs, while staying in the SC would minimize them. But money is not the only issue involved. The Trustees have expressed an interest in building a nationally competitive men’s basketball program. The SC champion receives an automatic berth to the NCAA tournament, and dropping out of the SC would deprive Davidson of this chance at fame. Dropping out of the SC would also hurt Davidson’s minor sports. These teams are establishing themselves in the Southern Conference. Minor sports benefit from the level of competition as well as having Conference opponents nearby. Most of these programs would be second rate if Davidson became an independent or joined a lesser conference such as the NAIA. Davidson should retain its Southern Conference membership and maintain one of its great traditions.

Sour Grapes

Doug and the Grapes played Davidson fast Sunday afternoon in true evangelical style. With amps in place and the Chambers building as a sounding board, the contemporary Christian group entertained a group of thirty or forty students in an outdoor concert. Hardly anyone deliberately attended the concert, but many heard it just the same. From Patterson Court all the way down Main Street, the sounds of the Grapes wafted, and anyone in the vicinity became a part of the audience simply by being there. It was a loud event. Perhaps less wattage would have been more appropriate.

But the concert presents other questions as well, the main one being, How did the Grapes get permission to blast themselves over a good portion of the campus? Consider, in contrast, the problems which faced the Concert Committee when trying to locate a place for the Spring Frolics concert with Let’s Active and Bright Profile. Traditionally held on the baseball field, the concert had to be rescheduled to the football practice field because of a new golf course. They kept the location remote probably because the concert historically is a loud event and they didn’t want to offend anyone. It seems that the Grapes would want to avoid offending anyone as well, but then, if they had performed at the football practice field, only a couple of joggers and some birds might have heard them. Chances are, they were allowed to perform in the heart of the campus because of the Christian content of their music. If this were the case, it raises questions about the criteria used for granting permission for campus events.First such outdoor Christian event this term, there might be no problem. It wasn’t, though. Cliffe Knechtle spoke three times at outdoor evangelical talks in April, each time at a strategically located spot on campus. One couldn’t help but at least see him as he spoke; he was a visible and vocal speaker. Proselytizing is one thing, but the imposition of the Grapes and Cliffe Knechtle is another. In the future, Davidson Christian Fellowship should consider the possibility that immersing the campus in spirituality may not be the most appropriate way to spread the Word.

Loot, THE TRUSTEES ARE HERE. PASS ME THE COPPERTONE.

Free Speech Response

To the Editor:

I am writing in response to the editorial, “Free Speech,” which appeared in last week’s Davidsonian. In this editorial, the editors expressed their opinion that The Davidsonian is not to be used as a disciplinary device by the Honor Council. I consider this a valid position. However, I believe that The Davidsonian does not understand what occurred in recent disciplinary action taken by the Honor Council and has therefore presented a gross misconception to the campus about how the Honor Council works. It is my desire to clear up this misconception.

The Honor Council did not order anyone to write a letter. It does not have that power, for letter-writing is not one of the eight possible sanctions listed in the Code of Disciplinary Procedure which the Honor Council is given authority to implement. Letters to the community were strongly recommended, however, for apologies to the campus were certainly in line with the offenses committed. The Davidsonian, being the most obvious source of inter-campus communication, was thus considered to be the most logical way to communicate these apologies. If, however, the students chose not to write the letters, no additional disciplinary action would have been taken for they were not required to write them. It was their choice.

The editorial claimed that the students were “ordered to write a letter at the threat of expulsion.” The Honor Council does not work on a conditional basis, positioning this threat above every violator’s head waiting for a wrong move. It is not a group of power-hungry, unreasonable people. Rather, it is a group of conscientious, understanding people that wrestles relentlessly with every decision it makes in order to maintain justice and consistency in the Honor Council. I believe that The Davidsonian must be careful to understand fully the facts involved before printing such inaccurate statements about Davidson’s unique privilege, the Honor System, in the future.

Bobby Silver ’84

Editors’ note — The students who wrote the letters said they would not have written them if the Honor Council had not “strongly suggested” that they write them. They were also quite relieved when we told them we would not print them. This we consider coercion. If they had written the letters entirely on their own, and honestly wanted us to run them, we would have had no problem printing the letters.