Gamecocks Better Wildcats, 65-62
Cats Host Western Carolina Monday, UT-Chattanooga Saturday

By STEVE SOUD ’84

After winning a grudge match over a much-improved Appalachian State last Friday, the Wildcats journeyed south to face the Gamecocks of South Carolina. The outcome was much closer than the Cocks might have wished, as Davidson threatened to pull out another last-second win as they did in a 52-51 thriller last year. Instead, South Carolina had the last-minute heroics as they won a 65-62 decision over the visiting Cats.

With 1:31 remaining in the game, USC held a slim 63-62 lead and the ball. The Gamecocks worked for an insurance basket, but Gerald Peacock was called for the charge. Davidson sat on the ball looking for the winning basket, but with :36 remaining, the ball was batted out of bounds by a Gamecock. Richard Wilson inbounded for the Wildcats, but Kevin Darmody deflected the Davidson pass bound for Kenny Wilson. He scooped up the loose ball and passed it to Scott Sanderson. Brian Rowan fouled Sanderson with :28 remaining, sending him to the line for the one-and-one. Sanderson unflinchingly canned both shots to ensure the win.

The surprise for the Gamecocks was that the pesky Wildcats were that close at all. The Wildcats, on the other hand, entered the game intent upon a low-scoring affair. “If we can hold in the 50s or 60s, we feel like we have a shot at winning,” assistant coach Jim Baker said before the game. Even when the 38-38 halftime tie indicated a faster pace than the Wildcats wanted, they were playing with enough confidence to win.

The Wildcats, scoring inside and outside, off the break and out of the half-court offense, dazzled the more talented Gamecocks and held onto a steady two-point lead. USC cut it to one for the first time with 7:32 left in the first half as Rowan was called for a technical foul. Fifty seconds later, the Cocks took their first lead, 24-23, as Harold Martin scored on a pull-up jumper from the right. The game remained on its two-point seesaw down to the halftime buzzer. Then, with :03 left, Kenny Wilson scored his fourteenth point of the half with a tying (38-38) jumper from 17 feet.

The Wildcats regained the lead briefly with 15:23 remaining, as a Richard Wilson layup off a steal gave Davidson a 50-48 advantage. Carolina was back ahead by the 14:37 mark, and by the 6:01 mark had built the lead to 60-56. Jim McConkey hit a pair of jumpers from the right side to give Davidson a 62-61 lead with 3:54 remaining, but those were Davidson’s last points.

Davidson played its best all-around game since the Furman road win in early January. The defense stifled the Gamecock inside game and forced them to shoot from the perimeter. The Cocks shot from there with alarming accuracy (59.1 percent for the game), which eventually gave them the win. The Wildcats finished with a 54.3 percent scoring pace, but it wasn’t quite enough. Kenny Wilson, who pestered the Gamecocks throughout the first half, was ineffectual in the second. He was 5 of 9 from the field with 14 points in the first half, but the USC defense limited him to an 0-for-3 second half. His only two second-half points were from the free throw line.

“We played well enough towin, but didn’t,” Wilson said. Tomorrow night the Cats travel to Lexington, Virginia to face the hapless Keydets of VMI. Monday they return to Johnston Gym to face revitalized Western Carolina, and next Saturday is the rematch with hated, league-leading UT-Chattanooga featuring the White-Wilkins aerial circus. Then, the Monday night of exams is the annual game against archrival UNCC. Ex-Davidson star John Gullickson is now leading the Forty-niners, so come out and support your Cats.

Lady Cats Win Third Straight
By KARA GILMORE ’85

For the women’s basketball team, winning has been like an addictive drug — once they’ve gotten a taste of it they can’t get enough of it. The women were 2-0 for the past week, giving them a 3-game winning streak and victories in 4 out of their last 5 games. Throughout this stretch different players have provided the necessary “spark” at appropriate times. At the same time, Mike Frankhouser has continued to play with unparalleled consistency, scoring 20 or more points in each of the last 5 games, with an average of 25.4 ppg over that span. She has topped the 30-point total twice. The first time was two weeks ago when she put in 33 against Methodist, and the second came Tuesday night versus Cohen when she connected for 32.

The two victories this week, both at home, were Saturday afternoon over Greensboro College by the score of 62-50 and Tuesday night over Cohen College by a 63-40 margin. Saturday in the Greensboro game the Lady Cats benefited from their most well-balanced attack of the year. Frankhouser, Mitzi Short, and Carol Heppner all hit in double figures with 21, 15, and 10 points. As for rebounding, Heppner pulled in 11, and Frankhouser 10. Forward Jeanne Womack dished out 6 assists. Coach Mayes said, “We played well and were in control of the game most of the time. We came out and played much stronger in the second half than in the first. This was good to see because I’ve been stressing how important it is for us to do this. We always seem to start out slowly and if we don’t come on strong any later than the start of the second half we simply run out of time to catch up.”

The game Tuesday against the Cohen Cobras was, as Coach Mayes put it, “a revenge game.” Earlier in the season the Lady Cats had lost a close one to Cohen in what Mayes had termed, “the most physical game I’ve ever seen as a coach.” Tuesday’s game started physically as well. It settled down somewhat, however, when Cohen’s big inside player, Joanne New, got into early foul trouble. Mayes said, “Mike made some nice moves inside and got New into early trouble — this really limited her playing time and gave us an advantage right away.” As far as execution went the Lady Cats had the game under control. They got Frankhouser a lot of rebounds (Frankhouser 15, Womack 11) and took advantage of them with a well-run fast break. When the break wasn’t there, however, they did an excellent job of running their half-court offense. As Cohen switched from a zone defense to a man-to-man, the Lady Cats smoothly adjusted their offense and kept right on rolling. Mayes said, “Last time we played them, we lost the ball.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 February 1983