10 ___ Friday, November 11, 1983 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ann Meador, Editor
David Resnik, Executive Editor
Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor
John Gathings, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

-Credit-Hours-

One of the stumbling blocks toward implementing the semester system has been removed, but the problems the problem spoke to
remain. The faculty has dropped the credit-hour system from its semester plans, but the need for credit hours still exists.

Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor

Last spring the faculty approved the idea of credit hours in order to solve some lingering problems with the semester
system. But since then they have realized the difficulties involved with assigning credit hours to each class and weighing classes
against each other. For now at least, a course is a course.

The problems that credit hours were supposed to solve linger. Science majors will still lose out when it comes to
getting credit for lab time. Languages also will not be compensated for their extra contact hours. Also, Davidson will not
be able to offer mini-courses for credit and will miss the scheduling flexibility that credit hours would have offered. Credit
hours would have also eased the workload that students who take five courses would face under semesters. Davidson is maintaining
its graduation requirement of 36 courses, so students will have to take five courses one semester each year. If students
could take classes that meet for fewer hours or receive less credit, then they could reduce their workload.

Many professors have opposed credit hours because they feel it is wrong to relate actual work with contact hours. They
believe students should strive for quality, not quantity. A science student may do a lot of work in the lab,
but this work cannot be compared to what a Humanities student spends on a paper. Although the credit-hours system may
be questionable on fundamental grounds, the problems it attempts to solve are not. Even though the credit-hours proposal has been
defeated, the College should still try to solve the problems it addressed.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000 ext. 149 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, North
Carolina 28036. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: David McGee, Assistant News Editor, Chet Barksdale, Andy Clark, Roxanna Guilford, Duncan Fraser, Wayne Magruder, Bruce Plourde, Greg
Smouse, Julie Sternal, Aaron Taylor, Lisa Thomas, David Van Pelt, Elizabeth White, Ted Wilson

Features Staff: Brian Butler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris, Ida Phillips, Allison Wills

Sports Staff: Scott Huie, Assistant Sports Editor, Boyd Blackburn, Kerry Brown, Dave Barnhardt, Pam Harmann, Rand Hartsell, Frank Schwalbe

Photography Staff: Carroll Overton, Assistant Photography Editor, Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael Dent, Caryl Dawson, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Mike Jester, Laura
McGee, Anderson Scott, Mike Sneil, Bruce von Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey, Alva Moore, Susan Norman

Circulation Staff: David McCurry, William White

Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Kevin Horan

Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Lou Hamilton, Debra Jean Williams

Copy Editing: Christine Jackson

Circulation Staff: David McCurry, Manager: William White

Advertising Staff: SaraRoss. Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt
Production Staff: Kevin Horan, Rob Hollenbeck
Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Lou Hamilton, Debby Williams
Copy Editing: Christine Jackson

Last Shot?
To the Editor:

I had decided not to continue the argument concerning gun control until I read the front page article about a
man on campus carrying a .38 S & W handgun [Davidsonian, 12 November 1983 “Police Arrest Man on Firearms Charges”].
We don’t know how close we came to having a tragedy right here on campus. We should all give serious
thought to this incident, especially to the potential danger to which Sergeant Cook was exposed.

In his letter of November 4, 1983, Dr. [Lance] Stell has resorted to several classic techniques of lobbyists. These include:
(1) bury the argument in massive verbiage, (2) quickly escalate the “tone” of the argument, (3) never allow the argument
to be reduced to its basic or simple components, (4) “lie with statistics,” and (5) question the integrity and motives
of anyone who would dare disagree. {Stell’s} letter is an example of (1). His introduction of the “wicked” is an
example of (2). Point (3) is clearly demonstrated by not allowing me to state simply that “guns are made to
kill.” (Try as I may, I see no other use for guns). By drawing attention to the 0.02 percent rate
referred to in Dr. Stell’s original article, I attempted to draw attention to point (4). In his letter he does
it again — “there were 8,474 handgun murders in the U.S. last year.” While even this is unacceptably high, we
must realize that handgun murders and gunshot deaths are not the same thing. Finally, as an example of points (5)
and (2), Dr. Stell suggests that my personal judgment is “cloudy” and “poisonous.” Simply because I do not agree with
him in that I value life more than I value guns?

There is one more tactic that lobbyists just love. And we let them get away with it. They insist that
there are no data to support the argument that their favorite product is harmful to our health. The gun lobby
and the tobacco lobby do this all the time. They assume that we are both uninformed and stupid. Are you?

Prof. John Williamson

Introduction
To the Editor:

We, the Intramural Athletic Council (the IMAC), would like to introduce ourselves. We are representatives from Patterson Court, the off-campus
fraternities, the independents, and the freshmen advisors. Our primary purpose is to serve your interests and concerns in intramural athletics.

However, you also have responsibilities. You need to inform us of your conflicts, needs, and suggestions. You also have the
obligations to uphold your commitments. We are an open and concerned group of students and are anxious to hear your
input. Please feel free to stop any one of us at any time and inform us of your concerns. We
hope to make IMAC an effective organization designed for the fun and enjoyment of all students. We can do this
only with your help.

The Intramural Athletic Council
Gwen Harris, Director
Katie Dagenhart, Freshman Advisor
Doug Henson, SAE
Laura Hills, Independent
Joe Jaworski, F&M
Jim Kelly, Fiji
Nick Lowther, PiKA
Tim McGaughey, PAX
Steve McMillan, SPE
Bob Miller, PDT
Susan Moore, Emanon
Annie Porges, Warner Hall
Grady Smith, KA
Steve Soud, Independent
Rob Spaugh, Freshman Advisor
Susan Taylor, Rusk
