Oboist Debuted with Columbus Blues But Joseph Robinson prepared Bach cantatas for Plott Memorial

By KIRSTEN MCDONALD ’83

After performing here on Monday night, Joseph Robinson flew back to New York for a concert the following evening. The Davidsonian caught up with him after his Tuesday evening performance, and though tired, he spoke with us at length about his feelings, impressions, and views concerning the Donald Plott Memorial Concert.

Davidsonian: Can you tell us how you felt about the concert as a musician?

Robinson: I think it went better at night. We were afraid it wouldn’t, because for both of us (Workman and Robinson) the program was a marathon. He understood it better than I did. I didn’t know until we got into it that it would be a serious matter of endurance and just plain physical stamina. There’s a certain physical drain involved in being in full dress and under the lights.

Davidsonian: How did you find the auditorium acoustically?

Robinson: Well, it leaves something to be desired, more from the standpoint of the performer than the audience. We kept being reassured that we did project very well [which was helpful because] it’s not the kind of setting on stage that gives a lot back to the performer. I’d played there before with the Piedmont Chamber Orchestra and knew I could trust it, so it was not a negative factor as far as I was concerned. I liked the size. It was the right size auditorium for the music we were doing.

Davidsonian: What was your role in creating the Plott Scholarship and organizing the concert?

Robinson: Oh my goodness, it goes back about a year. Louise Martin [widow of former College President P. Grier Martin] had talked to me in New York about having Bill [Workman] and me perform at Davidson. So that had been on the back burner. Then the surprise of the degree conferral came about a year ago. That gave us a kind of impetus to go on and do something about a joint concert. There was not a lot of discussion about the program because Bill agreed with me that it would be great to do these cantatas. 56 and 82 are the best music ever written for oboe and baritone. We questioned whether Bach was the right kind of thing especially in terms of public interest. As far as we were concerned, a Bach concert was what we wanted to do. That meant getting some kind of little orchestra. The next step in the evolution of this was that I called Robert Shaw and asked him to conduct. I’d worked with him for six years in Atlanta. He had recorded these cantatas 25 years ago almost to the month. He said he would. The endowment idea developed as soon as the thought to ask Shaw to conduct arose. We realized that there was some kind of income potential and in order to justify his participation without some kind of fee we would need some kind of purpose other than our own pleasure of performing. Bill and I wanted to do something for Don Plott.

Davidsonian: And this seemed like the perfect occasion?

Robinson: Yes. This whole event has been a rare focal point. I think it’s rare to have this many threads of his [Plott’s] life come together at once.

Davidsonian: How did Mehta end up as the conductor?

Robinson: After about three months of planning to have the concert on Dec. 21, which was within the frame suggested by Robert Shaw’s secretary, they basically changed their minds. So the thing kind of aborted. Of course, by that time there had been a lot of internal planning and organization and thought about this among staff people like [Union Director C.] Shaw Smith and [College President] Sam Spencer. A lot of people had begun really hard work on this. When he canceled we were left

Facts
Notable Patrons: Mr. David Rockefeller
Food Consumed:
1,000 oysters
400 hot puffed pastries
400 water chestnuts
1,100 lbs. of fried sea scallops
125 lbs. beef stroganoff
50 lbs. rice
Source: Charlotte Observer.High and dry. That was about the time I was performing the Strauss Concert with Zubin in New York. I don’t know. I suppose it was just an impulse. Why not? Zubin owed me a favor. In the first year that I was in the orchestra, he asked me to help him by teaching a member of the Israeli Philharmonic. So for about four months, this fellow studied with me. At the end of that time, Zubin asked me what my fee should be. I said I’d contribute this because I knew how much he’d done over the years for the Israeli Philharmonic. That had been kind of like credit in the bank, and I used it for openers. He loves this repertory, especially Cantata 56. It was one he wanted to do on the Europe tour, but at the last minute, there were scheduling problems, and they had to cancel. So I said, here’s your big chance to do that cantata you couldn’t do before. I think he and Bill had worked in Italy, so he trusted him enough to go along. He was not so sure about the orchestra. But he’d never been to that part of the country. I felt like the lead porter in his safari south. He’s a great sport and a warm-hearted fellow, unlike many of the world’s leading conductors. So he entered this with a good attitude. That’s why he agreed to do the Radio Station Fund Drive. Basically, as long as he approved of the artistic results, he was willing to have the tapes be released all over the world. That’s our best hope in the future of enriching the endowment. If we can sell the video tapes competitively, the money could go into the endowment. We've been told that something like PBS might pay something like $50,000 for them.

Davidsonian: How do you see the scholarship benefiting a rising musician?

By Anderson Scott ’84

Robinson plays transfixed

Robinson: It’s certainly not our intention to compete with or supplant the function of an established conservatory. The idea is to keep the options open for the person who at eighteen is not sure he wants to bet his life on a professional music career. I myself was a little leery of the profession. My first looks at it were not very encouraging. My parents were not particularly encouraging of my musical interests beyond a certain point. The conservatory route is often so narrowing that it leads to disillusionment. Art by itself is not sufficient to redeem life. It becomes jumping through hoops for people.

Davidsonian: Do you ever regret not attending a conservatory?

Robinson: Not at all.

Davidsonian: Do you have any feelings toward contemporary music written for orchestra?

Robinson: I think it’s fair to say that most of my colleagues in the orchestra world are conservative. It’s probably in some part because we’re intellectually and technically lazy, and resistant to having to learn our craft all over again because some composer wants us to play our instrument upside down. Also, for the most part, there’s a sterility about it and a kind of embarrassed shunning of beauty.

Davidsonian: Is there anything you'd like to add?

Robinson: Yes, we oboe players teeter on the edge of ugliness and catastrophe because of those tiny pieces of cane. As far as the scholarship goes, I hope it works. I think there’s a great deal of potential. What we've done is just the beginning. Would you do something for me? There was never any mention made in connection with this whole affair to acknowledge the contribution of Martin Booksban, who gave his time to do the radio broadcast, and Louise de la Fent, our recording agent, who also contributed her time. We overlooked their role in any of the credits.

Robinson is presently the principal oboist for the New York Philharmonic Orchestra. Even he admits that he has by far surpassed all his musical dreams that began forming on the night of his debut in September 1958 at the Phi Delt house where he played “Columbus Stockade Blues” to a banjo accompaniment.