8 Friday, April 22, 1983 / The Davidsonian

FEATURES

Poor Murderer Allows Audience no Escape

By Thurston Hatcher

In "Poor Murderer" (premiering tonight at 8 p.m. in Hodson Hall) there is no intermission, at least not for the actors. While the audience has the opportunity to relax between the play’s two acts, every character in "Poor Murderer" remains onstage, never ceasing his or her institutionalized existence.

"It seems only logical," said director Rupert T. Barber Jr. "It is an extension of the play that provides some sense of truth," no curtain allows any audience or cast member to escape what Barber describes as "the oppressive, confined set" featured in "Poor Murderer."

In the Davidson College theatre department's spring production, there are no answers, only questions. "Poor Murderer," by Czech playwright Pavel Kohout, is a complex and thought-provoking work about a famous actor, Kerzhentsev, who contends that he has murdered another actor. With the help of his former theatrical troupe, he proceeds to act out significant scenes from his life.

"It’s one of the most complex plays we've done," said Barber, "and the actors have been as excited and stimulated by it as I was, and everybody is still excited."

The excitement to which Barber referred comes from the challenge each actor in "Poor Murderer" faces in establishing his own identity. At one point in the production, the actors present a play within a play within "Poor Murderer." Naturally, such a multiplicity of levels demands from the actors full concentration, complete understanding of the play’s lines and concepts, and a genuine characterization.

The characters who remain onstage throughout the intermission represent the genuine personalities of the player within Kerzhentsev’s troupe. Barber gave each Davidson actor the opportunity to decide just what his or her personality would be when removed from any role playing.

The personalities the actors chose to establish range from strong extroversion to mildness to timidity. Karen Baldwin, in the role of the second actress, chose an introverted persona. "I'm a loner," she says. "I go off on my own a lot."

By BRIAN BUTLER

Poor Murderer: a Review

We expect plays to have curtains, lights, beginnings, and endings. We expect actors to play their parts, sure, but after it's over, the curtains should lower, the lights should rise, and we should be back where we started from — on solid ground. Poor Murderer has neither curtains nor solid ground. The play refuses to give the audience the tiniest assurance about the simplest matters of perception. We confront a stage within a stage, actors portraying actors, and seemingly endless levels of irony. The audience’s accustomed "detached observer" perspective is transformed into a set of Chinese boxes — each irony, when uncovered, reveals another.

The play concerns the questionable madness/genius of Anton Kerzhentsev (Roy Fuller), an actor with a frightening power to release himself into a role to such an extent that he puts his "real" identity into question. Like Hamlet, there is method in his madness, and, for him, Hamlet is more than a play; it is a machine for a real revenge on the character who plays Polonius. Also like Hamlet, Anton claims perfect control of all the pretenses of his emotions. But the audience must ask how far his reason can go. Is he, by lying consistently to others, telling the truth to himself?

A view from the insane asylum. Roy Fuller plays Anton, the actor with method behind his madness.

The thirteen actors spent numerous hours researching for their roles. Their investigation of the world of the mentally disturbed culminated with a trip last week to a mental institution near Charlotte. Sam Roberts, who plays an attendant, found the trip to be "an extraordinary experience." He says he gained more respect for mental hospital attendants now.That he sees that much of the restraining is for the patient’s own good. Small insights like Roberts’ — not magic revelations — help each actor build a solid character. “Poor Murderer,” making its Piedmont debut, premiered in Germany in 1971 and played to rave reviews in New York in 1976. It promises suspense, intrigue, and a great deal of unanswered questions. After all, what is real in “Poor Murderer” and what is not? Is Kerzhentsev truly mad? If so, to what degree? Each must find his own resolution of these problems. Barber considers “Poor Murderer” a fine opportunity for all involved, particularly the audience: “We've got a play that is an unknown quantity. We find it to be worthwhile and intellectually stimulating. We just hope students will take a chance on an unknown item.”

Tickets are on sale in the box office of Cunningham Fine Arts Building weekdays from 2 to 5 p.m. All performances will be at 8 p.m. except the April 28 performance which will start at 7:30 p.m. General admission tickets cost $3.50 and $2.50 for students and senior citizens.

Perhaps he is right when he says, “A smile can be bad, and a murder can be good,” but we wonder if he can remain in control of the complexities he sets into motion. The further he gets from simple informal interactions (like a little girl’s meeting with the little dog), the more we wonder if he knows, as he claims, “the secret to the meaning of life.” This perfect egocentric Anton writes a play about his life, to be performed by some actors from the Royal Shakespeare Company and himself within the confines of the insane asylum. The play is ostensibly an elaborate explanation of Anton’s life — a defense of his sanity. Since Anton’s life has been one of acting, it necessarily leads to such complexities as Anton playing himself playing himself — and he is so convincingly evil that he scares the other Royal Company actors, if not the “real” actors themselves. The most frightening thing about this play is that one can never determine a safe place to assume the Chinese boxes of who-knows-what stop. We get the disconcerting sense that Anton’s apparently rock-bottom reflections (“Did I pretend to be insane in order to kill, or did I kill because I am insane?”) are infinitely regressive dilemmas, or perhaps ploys for further secret vengeance.

The play leaves the audience with a lot of confusion regarding personal relationships and art. Is there a qualitative difference? Where does role playing stop and honesty begin? Maybe lying honestly is better than telling near-truths that portend pure honesty. The problem can’t be solved without insanity; we can’t talk about role playing without demonstrating it. As Anton says to an actress he has frightened, “Only death can stop the play.” The set, costuming, acting, and lighting all contribute to the real and yet surreal effects of multiple ironies. The boundaries between the stage on the stage, the asylum walls, and the audience remain unclear. Something about the clutter of antiques, the turn-of-the-century costumes that slip so easily off and on reinforce Anton’s crossing of prearranged imaginary boundaries. The repeated patterns of infinite regression make this play stick in the mind like a dream or the refrain of a haunting pop song. We eventually have to forget it, because it only leads back to its beginning. Doubts lead to more doubts, dreaming to more dreaming, and consciousness of role playing to more of the same. A circle has no end, so forget it. It’s probably only a wild dream, an optical illusion... of the mind.