The Day After

To the Editors:

Mike Stephens’s article on “The Day After” contained several statements which concerned me a great deal. I do not wish to challenge Stephens’s analysis of the film, which I also felt was rather hyped-up and ultimately disappointing, but rather I call into question his general statements about attitudes toward nuclear war. Stephens is “firmly convinced that for the average person there are many more important things to worry about than nuclear war.” I wonder what he has in mind. NFL standings? Cabbage Patch dolls? Reviews and papers? Stephens fails to distinguish between worry, which is rather unproductive and debilitating, and productive concern. In my opinion, “The Day After” served to heighten public awareness of an issue about which every person should be concerned. Public awareness of this issue may well be something that Stephens takes for granted. At Davidson various organizations (Peace Coalition, PIRG) have undertaken to educate the College community on issues of nuclear war. However, not every individual is as aware of the issue as many Davidson students are. I watched “The Day After” in a sorority house at a distinguished state university where it became quite clear that many students knew little or nothing about the issue at hand. As we watched the film, initial disinterest became genuine astonishment and concern. “The Day After” introduced these students and many other viewers to an issue to which they will perhaps now give some thought. Stephens assesses correctly the lack of easy answers. However, he fails to grasp the meaning of “The Day After.” Education about bomb shelters and radiation sickness does not effectively treat the issue. Public awareness of the issue must work towards establishing attitudes which ensure that we never need to enter bomb shelters or treat radiation sickness. “The Day After” is one small step towards the goal of never having a “day of” nuclear war.

Nancy Rosselot

Ad Hominem

To the Editors:

I would like to question some points raised in a recent essay, “Quantitative Values and Qualitative Concepts” (The Davidsonian, Dec. 12) by Alberto Hernandez-Chiroldes. In this statement, he discussed the recent exhibition of “Revolutionary Posters from Nicaragua” which was held at the College Union, and Brian Shaw’s essay (The Davidsonian, Nov. 11) concerning this display. The exhibition was hardly the work of Nicaraguan propagandists as Hernandez-Chiroldes charges. Joe Park, chairman of the Union Gallery Committee, brought the exhibition to the campus after consulting with the organizer of the show, David Craven. An assistant professor of art history at SUNY-Cortland, Craven and his co-worker from this Cortland faculty, John Ryder, conducted extensive research in Nicaragua during the summer of 1982. David Craven is a well-respected scholar who has published widely on questions of art and culture ranging from the school of Rembrandt to the contemporary scene. This exhibition revealed the richness of the present Nicaraguan society which neither the American government nor Albert Hernandez-Chiroldes cares to recognize. In spite of the “us versus them” picture that Ronald Reagan and others attempt to create concerning the defense of American interests in the region, there are in Nicaragua real and important improvements in the fields of health, social welfare, literacy, and the arts which this exhibition highlighted. It simply does not do, then, for Hernandez-Chiroldes to dismiss this as a manifestation of “Leninist propaganda.” The point is, of course, that such an exhibition should provoke reasonable debate about the situation in Nicaragua — debate made all the more difficult to understand by the Washingtonian and Managuan smokescreens. Unfortunately, Hernandez-Chiroldes is not willing to address the issues posed by Brian Shaw’s essay. Instead, he has tainted his argument with invective and insinuations. In the future, I can only hope that constructive debate rather than ad hominem polemics will find their way into these pages.

Shaw Smith, Jr.
Assistant Professor of Art

Misdirection

To the Editors:

I call to your attention an article by Frank del Olmo, “La Prensa: Litmus of Freedom,” dateline Managua, in yesterday’s Charlotte Observer (December 12, page 13A), reprinted from The Los Angeles Times. Del Olmo cites examples of La Prensa’s occasional irresponsibility, imbalance, and poor news judgment as “other factors [that] have contributed to [its] shaky situation” within a “three-way Chamorro newspaper war.” Reporting a recent and dramatic easing of Sandinista censorship, del Olmo, like others, contributes much-needed up-to-date information for a continuing discussion of Central America which, unfortunately, was misdirected last week by the ad hominem focus of an opinions article you published on Nicaragua.

Lois A. Kemp
Associate Professor of Spanish

Deployment

To the Editors:

On Thursday, December 15, students and faculty will wear black armbands to express their disapproval of United States deployment of cruise and Pershing II missiles in England and in continental Europe. This day marks the official completion of the initial deployment, and also a new stage of tension and uncertainty in the nuclear arms race. I encourage all members of the Davidson...community to consider the significance of this deployment and join in this symbolic action. I believe that the Pershing II and cruise missiles are a strongly destabilizing and unnecessary step in the precarious nuclear arms race. The Pershing II are the first U.S. land-based missiles in Europe capable of striking the USSR since the settlement of the Cuban missile crisis in 1963. These missiles can reach the Soviet Union in six minutes from West Germany, whereas the land-based missiles in the US take thirty minutes. This strategic change means that the Soviets are forced to rely more on computers in deciding on the legitimacy of a U.S. attack. Beyond escalating the chance of an accidental war, the cruise and Pershing II missiles are potential first-strike weapons. The United States and the Soviet Union should be working for strong arms agreements and limitations instead of enhancing the arms race. The U.S. government claims we are deploying these missiles in response to the deployment of Soviet SS-20’s. Yet the threat of the Soviet SS-20’s has been the same for twenty years, while the U.S. response provokes a different stage in the nuclear conflict. The wearing of armbands on Thursday is one way of generating discussion and further action about the European missile crisis. The seriousness of this situation deserves our visible attention on Thursday, and active consideration on all days. Armbands may be picked up at the Union desk Wednesday night and all day Thursday.

Debra Williams
Coordinator of the Davidson Peace Coalition

Collective Sigh
To the Editors:

Before the college community finishes heaving a collective sigh that the “last chapter” has been written in Davidson’s “semester saga” (editorial, The Davidsonian, December 7), let’s consider where we stand. Have we reconsidered our educational policies and concluded that the trimester system is best for Davidson? I doubt it. The faculty votes during the past year suggest that a majority — perhaps even a substantial majority — of the faculty favors a semester calendar. What the faculty cannot agree on, or rather has not yet agreed on, is the form a semester system should take. The discussion, then, is far from over. It will inevitably begin again next year, when the College undertakes its decennial self-study. We know now what is not acceptable: (1) special treatment for the Humanities Program; if we adopt the rubric “a course is a course,” the Humanities Program cannot count 1 1/2 courses per semester; (2) a system of credit hours which permits science majors to graduate with significantly fewer (i.e., more than two or three) courses than other majors; (3) a semester with five-course loads (from the students’ point of view, at least). What we ought to be discussing in the future, therefore, is a graduation requirement of either 32 courses (the Humanities Program counting four courses), or of 36 courses (in a 4-1-4 arrangement), or of (say) 108 hours, with the added stipulation that no more than (say) 40 hours be in any one department. Clearly, we need to reach more of a consensus before we start voting on this or that. Let’s hope that the 1984-85 self-study will provide the necessary opportunity to talk.

Peter Krentz
Associate Professor of History

Vocabulary
To the Editors:

I’m glad we're settled on the three-term calendar. Now may I help with some vocabulary, particularly the widespread misuse of the good word, trimester. It has been wrongly used in describing Davidson’s academic calendar of the past 15 years. The proper definition of trimester (Quann, Admissions, Academic Records, and Registrar Services, p. 275) is a calendar which uses more than the normal nine months that define the school year, usually three parts of about sixteen weeks each, where students carry 15 semester hours each trimester and where the unit of credit is the semester hour. By all parts of the definition, it doesn’t fit Davidson. Many of us have fallen into the trap of thinking the Latin word tri for the number, three should apply to a loosely used semester, hence trimester. We are close to a quarter calendar which also has three quarters (and frequently a summer quarter) and gives credit by quarter hour; the credit feature keeps it from fitting Davidson. We are left then with the proper position that Davidson's calendar is rightly referred to as either a three-term or a 3-3-3 calendar. Since we're going to continue to use the three-term calendar for a long time, most people think, please let’s call it by the right name.

Richard C. Burts, Jr.
Registrar

Thanks And Good Luck
To the Editors:

I would like to thank the many students who supported my bid for Editor of The Davidsonian yesterday. Although I did not win, I enjoyed meeting so many students throughout the campaign. I wish Ross Holt and David McGee much success as they take over as editors of The Davidsonian.

Duncan V. Fraser