Admissions More Selective

‘admissions are not blind to any aspect of the applicant’

By MIKE TANTILLO ’85

Director of Admissions John Griffith projects that Davidson’s admissions will become more selective than ever next year.

“Last year we accepted 38 percent of our applicants,” said Griffith, “This year I project that we will be able to accept 30 percent of our applicants.”

The Admissions Office has received about 400 applications more than it had at this time last year. As of Jan. 25, the admissions office had received applications from 853 males and 689 females for a total of 1542 applications. On Jan. 25, 1982, 650 males and 466 females totaled 1125 applicants.

The deadline for applications is February 15.

Dr. Griffith attributes the sharp increase in the number of applicants to a new brochure and the efforts of Alumni Recruiting offices in 16 southern cities. Furthermore, he said, Davidson’s reputation has been bolstered by the Sloan Grant, the MacArthur Grant, and events such as the Zubin Mehta concert, which draw national attention.

The Cass & Birnbaum Comparative Guide to American Colleges, 1981 classifies Davidson as a Highly Selective college. Only the “Most Selective” schools are more selective than Davidson, according to Cass & Birnbaum, an independent evaluating agency. Duke University is the only other school in the South rated as “Highly Selective,” no southern schools are rated as “Most Selective.” Dr. Griffith says that after accepting next year’s freshmen, Davidson “could possibly move into the ‘Most Selective’ category.”

Dr. Griffith says, “this year we have the largest number of black applicants, and therefore are hoping for a good yield. Also, the number of other minority applicants, such as Orientals and Hispanics, is up this year.”

Turning to the issue of men and women at Davidson, Dr. Griffith said “the male to female ratio in the student body will range between 60-40 and 66.6-33.4 as prescribed by the Trustees last February. At this point in time, from the view of the Trustees, the proper male-female balance is in this range. This policy will be reevaluated in terms of national trends and Davidson’s applicant pool as needed.”

“As a residential college, the male-female ratio is important, especially in terms of social and dormitory life. Sex blind admission would be wrong; our admissions are not blind to any aspect of the applicant.”

---

DAVIDSON SUNBATHERS!
SPRING BREAK FLORIDA trip to FT. LAUDERDALE OR KEY WEST: 8 beach days, 7 nights lodging in fine hotels “on the strip”, plus nightly parties from $125.

Call 800-368-2006 TOLL-FREE! Ask for Annette. Go with friends or organize a small group and sunbathe for FREE!

LEISURE UNLIMITED VACATIONS

---

Morehead Medical Center

Licensed OB-GYN Specialist

Worried About Being Pregnant? We Care.

Free Pregnancy Testing Daily (No appointment necessary)

For Answers And Action On

- Abortion

All Calls Strictly Confidential

1351 Durwood Drive, Charlotte, NC 28204
Hours 8-6 Mon.-Fri., 7-3 Sat.

---

Camp Thunderbird

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental and spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to helping each individual child develop his or her potential should apply. One must have the ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities. College students, teachers, and coaches should apply.

CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery and backpacking).

Horseback riding, white-water canoeing and tripping are extras in our excellent program.

For further information write or call G. William Climer, Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 7, Box 50, Clover, S.C., 29710 (803-831-2121).

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 28 Jan 1983