The Davidsonian / Friday, April 29, 1983

IMAC Undergoes Structural Revision

By BOBBY WINSTON

According to first-year Director of Intramurals Caroline Brown, the Fall term of the 1983-84 school year will bring a significant change to the structure of intramural administration. The present IMAC system, operating under a President, or “Czar,” will give way to a fifteen-person IMAC Council whose members will be elected by the student body next year.

Brown, who also coaches the women’s tennis team, believes the move to an elected council “will better distribute the responsibilities. It is very difficult for one student to handle all the responsibilities of IMAC.” She hopes the measure will gain broader student representation and provide a needed forum for student feedback. Sign-ups are now underway through 5:00 p.m. Tuesday, May 3, for upper-class independent representatives to the 1983-84 IMAC Council. Elections of one male and one female representative to the Council will be Thursday, May 5, (all day) at the Commons.

Brown says she will strive to make representation equal for all campus groups involved, such as eating houses, Patterson Court fraternities, off-campus fraternities, upperclass independents, and freshmen. She has tentatively divided the council into several committees. Each committee will devote itself to a particular function such as disciplinary actions and appeals, scheduling, or rankings. Also, she is considering the election of officers, but that issue is “still in the formulation stages.” The new Council will meet every two weeks to discuss general business and policy-making.

Brown plans to utilize the new Council in an advisory capacity. “They will help me identify the concerns of the students. I will be in a better position to make observations and from there make some strong recommendations. I want to create a program designed for the students.”

Junior Doug Henson displayed the strongest initiative among those students concerned about IMAC policy. He delivered a written proposal to Coach Brown on March 10. Henson's proposal cited that the reins of IMAC are too great a responsibility to be put in the hands of a single person. Because an individual does all the work and makes all the decisions, there results a lack of continuity in the system. Henson therefore asked for the initiation of an IMAC Council. Such a group could develop standards of procedure that could be consistently applied to all situations.

Coach Brown described her first year directing the intramural program as “sitting back to see what the system was working like.” She said that since the beginning of the 1982-83 year she has received input from several students who felt that some areas of IMAC needed strengthening.

Director of Physical Education Sterling Martin agrees that “changes are a little past due.” Martin served as Director of Intramurals from 1966-74 and during the 1981-82 year. He said, “We need a more clear-cut understanding of...”the chain of command, on the part of the students.” Martin stated further that the idea of an IMAC Council has actually been successful in the past. During the mid-sixties, an IMAC Council of thirteen members met bi-monthly to supervise and regulate the fierce rivalries that raged between the twelve national fraternity teams and an independent squad. Each team placed one representative on the Council. The emphasis of intramural policy soon changed from competition to increased participation to accommodate the quickly growing interest in intramural sports. Moreover, the IMAC trophy for which the fraternities competed was abolished in 1968. Fraternity involvement, however, decreased steadily and IMAC government began to decline. Interest in intramural sports continued to wane as many of the fraternities disbanded in 1971 (See related story p. 5).

Tight finances have taken their toll on IMAC. When Davidson went co-ed in 1972, intramural money had to be spread over two populations. Martin noted also that since he began working with the intramural program, the budget has increased relatively little, from $600 in 1966 to a 1982-83 level of $2000. Almost all of the present budget is used to pay referees. As apathy toward IMAC grew in the early 70s, policy shifted toward the development of a strong president to handle the IMAC powers. “We looked for a student with a strong interest in IMAC sports, a person who would really get into it and do all the work.” Martin feels that strong leadership of IMAC has been reached, but at the cost of less organization. While recognizing that present Czar Steve Soud has been doing “a superb job,” Martin felt that Soud has not been able to draw from precedents and traditions when formulating guidelines for the IMAC program. Martin supports Brown's decision to revitalize the IMAC Council. “College policy must be stated and enforced,” said Martin. “The students must have an ultimate authority in intramurals and... the overall responsibility definitely rests with the Athletic Department.” Soud also agrees that the move to establish a Council “will be better for the program.” He adds though that a smooth transition from Czar to Council will depend on “how interested the people on the Council are. People are going to have to take it seriously.”

BEACH, SWIM, AND PLAYTIME
Shorts by Birdwell, Woolrich, Jantzen, Duffel, Levi, and Munsingwear
Store hours: Mon thru Sat 9 a.m. til 5:30 p.m.
John Mack & Son
Downtown Mooresville

Wade Anderson

THANK YOU SENIOR CLASS AGENTS
Caryn Hoskins
Geoff Andrews
Chip Hurley
Kathryn Murray
Brenda Baker
Anne Hurt
Sarah Nock
Al Baldwin
Tim Johnston
Laurie Noto
Hall Barnett
Jeff Jordan
Paul Ray
Buck Bradbury
Anne Keith
Tim Ritchie
Cindy Clark
Robin Kidd
Joyce Robinson
Neil Cooksey
Elizabeth Kiss
Carolyn Scott
Jim Crowe
Ken Kreig
Mitzi Short
True Davis
Connie Kyle
Laura Singleton
Lisa Draine
Todd Lambert
Tracy Thompson
Alan Fields
Sherburne Laughlin
Chris Tiernan
Sandy Fossett
Kim McAlister
Eric Weiss
Scott Haight
Lee McCormick
Margaret West
Gray Hampton
Catherine McMillan
Dale Withrow
Mark Harwick
Elizabeth McMillan
Boe Young
Lisa Herard
Leesa McPhail
Andy Zoutewelle
Ginger Holley
Leslie Mills
WE SURPASSED OUR GOAL!
Sarah Moody