Cont'd. from “Rally” means are they the caliber team that should be 5-5 at this point. To make matters worse,
the Wildcats had the league-leading Thundering Herd of Marshall in dire straits on Monday night. “I really think we had
’em where we wanted ’em,” Hussey said. “We had them in the tempo we wanted them to play.”

In the first half, the Wildcats had controlled the tempo extremely well. They used an upbeat, breaking tempo when it
was to their best advantage, and their halfcourt game ran fairly smoothly as well. Once again, however, poor shooting (12
of 34 for the half) was the problem. If Kenny Wilson hadn’t dominated the offensive boards with so many follow-ups
(including a booming tap-dunk to open scoring), the first half would have been as disastrous as the early portions of
the second.

At halftime and with his team down 32-31, Hussey told them, “We’ve gotta continue to be quick and work hard.”
But, he reminded them, “We’re trying to be patient.” The Wildcats were patient at the start of the half, but
they were never really as quick as they had been before halftime. “I could sense a mood that they weren’t...
just fired up,” Hussey said. Meanwhile, the Herd had tacked sixteen points onto their halftime lead. Midway through the half,
the Wildcats again started playing to their potential, and by the two-minute mark, they had cut the lead back down
to four. A couple of Marshall fast breaks later, and Marshall had won, 81-73.

In retrospect, Hussey said he knew from the start his team wasn’t as mentally or physically prepared as it might
have been on another day. Having returned from the East Tennessee loss at about 3 AM Sunday, it was difficult
for the team to muster any degree of preparation for the Monday game. “I didn’t think we were quite as
enthused as I’d hoped we’d be playing the number one team in the league,” said Hussey, himself remiss.

What was perhaps the bulk of the problem, however, could be found on the stat sheet. Of the five starters,
Brian Rowan, Richard Wilson, and John Carroll combined to shoot 3-for-16 from the field and totaled only 13 points. Kenny
Wilson and Cliff Tribus combined to shoot 19-for-37 from the field and totaled 50 points. Consistency, Hussey pointed out, is
the problem. Of 19 games this season, the Wildcats have put together only two solid efforts—Notre Dame and the game
at Furman. Right after those two, however, they hit rock bottom against Appalachian State. Hussey says he had a feeling
that loss to the Mountaineers would be a turning point for the team.

Since then, the team has never really had enough of a breather to get back to playing well. In three
of the Wildcats’ four losses since ASU, valiant comebacks have fallen short at UT-Chattanooga, and at home against East Tennessee
and Marshall. Those losses, although all have been to “upper division” teams, are taking a demoralizing toll on the players.
They need to win a big game to get their confidence back. Until such a win comes, the pressure they
are applying to themselves will become greater and more detrimental than helpful to their play.

Oddly, this season somewhat resembles Davidson’s roller coaster 1980-81 season. Towards the end of that season, it was a last-second
loss to Appalachian that cost the Wildcats first place in the Southern Conference and started a critical losing streak. That
same year, Marshall came into Johnston Gym for the first round of the tournament and soundly defeated the Wildcats, ending
a year of frustration. The following season, hopes for Davidson sprung once again with a 64-62 upset win over Appalachian
State. Although this year’s team has none of the problems of the 1980-81 edition, perhaps a home court loss to
Marshall and a win tonight over Appalachian will end the frustrations and renew hopes for a fine season. All they
need are a few solid, consistent performances from everyone.

My Apologies

I neglected to mention in my article on the East Tennessee State game at home that Cliff Tribus scored his
thousandth point that evening. He scored 26 points that night and finished the game with 1,017 career points. He now
has 1,077 career points.

—Soud

Coach Greer Needs a Baseball Statistician. Apply in the Gym.

Cont'd. from “Lady Cats”

...than most forwards in the league, Heppner doesn’t let the injury bother her play as she works for good rebounding
position and often out-hustles her opponents to the ball. She is a scrappy player and her scrappiness and hustle saved
the Lady Cats on Monday. Diving for loose balls and repeatedly tying up...Methodist players for jump balls, Carol seemed to
light a fire under the rest of the team. By halftime they had pulled to within 6 points, 29-23. Coming
out fired up for the second half, the Cats really took it to Methodist. They outscored them 11-0 the first
5 minutes of the half as Heppner repeatedly slipped into the lane and popped the ball through the hoop. Heppner’s
scoring loosened the defensive pressure on Frankhouser and allowed her to get back into the offense. Frankhouser finished with 21
points. Carol wound up with 19 points on 53% shooting from the floor. Mike and Carol also led the way
in rebounding with 14 and 12 respectively. Coach Mayes said, “I expected to beat them by more than 4 points.
We were really sluggish in the first half, but we didn’t let down. We stayed in there and pulled it
together in the second half.”

“I felt the team showed a lot of poise coming from behind and then holding it together down the stretch
when it was close,” Mayes continued. “We really put in the baskets when they counted—and we’ll take it—it’s a win.”

There is a lot of exciting Lady Cat basketball coming up in Johnston Gym as the women finish their season
with 5 of their next 7 games at home. The first of these will be tomorrow at 2 PM vs.
Greensboro College, and the next one will be Tuesday night at 7 PM vs. Coker.

DCPC Abuzz over IMAC Hockey

The Davidson Presbyterian community has been buzzing over whispers emanating from the College Athletic Department. The word is that God
loves street hockey. Supporters of the claim point to three signs to establish the validity of their statement. (1) The
weather. Have you noticed how mild and dry winter term has been? God has recognized the need for good weather
to facilitate the promotion of his favorite game. (2) The Notre Dame basketball game. God rewarded Davidson College with a
victory to show his approval of the first-ever IMAC street hockey game, which was played that same day! (3) Mark
13:23. “And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, and they all
drank of it.” This passage is obviously a recount of the very first Stanley Cup (the National Hockey League Championship
trophy) presentation ceremony.

To whom do we owe our gratification for bringing God’s blessings to our humble community? The self-proclaimed George Washington of
IMAC street hockey, Pete Astapchik, boasted, “What do Christ, Gandhi, Marx, and I all have in common? We were all
told we would never live to see street hockey at Davidson College.” But Astapchik succeeded where the others had failed.
Through weeks of pleading and lobbying he made little progress. After changing his strategy to one of selective bribing he
managed to make his dream a reality.

For those of you unfamiliar with the wild men who run around on the outside basketball court every day at
4:00, here is an introduction to the best and the worst in IMAC hockey.

The Best:

Pucker Up. A group of northern soccer players. Experienced and fast, they have a good time. They aren’t bad at
street hockey, either. They are led by Mike “new wavers play sports, too” Lufkin and Peter “we play winter sports
year round in Buffalo” Burr. Right now they are the number one pick to the inaugural championship.

Motherpuckers A.: Strengthened by the addition of Tim McGauchey and supported by Kurt Henjes, Kevin Attar, and Todd Thomson, this
team is just behind Pucker Up. The team has shown good poise in close games. Steve “my sister plays street
hockey” Soud, the manager, says he is not ready to hand Pucker Up the trophy.

Hat Trick: The best of the rest. A young team without much experience. We don’t know any of the players,
but they were close to Pucker Up at halftime.

The Worst:

The Dominating Bears: The only thing they’ve dominated is the goals against statistic. They haven’t been scored on in four
games. Their success is due largely to the fact that they haven’t shown up for any of their games.

Exoskeletons: The worst of the teams that show up. Can hoddies play street hockey? Not a chance. Dave Carr is
to goaltending what SPE’s are to fraternities. The only glimmer of talent comes from Ken Murrah who displays intricate ball
handling skills he picked up last year during a visit to Converse College. If the skill of Pucker Up is
glorious myth, the ineptitude of the Exoskeletons is grim reality.

Next week: IMAC stars off the court.
