14 Friday, October 28, 1983 / The Davidsonian

"THE DAVIDSONIAN
Ann Meador, Editor
David Resnik, Executive Editor
Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor
John Gathings, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager
Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor

The Subculture

It’s easy to criticize a team that has lost five of its last six games. It is easy to criticize
a program that is not widely supported by the College community. But it is also easy to forget the people
who must shoulder both these burdens.

The life of a football player is not easy at Davidson College. Besides facing as much academic pressure as anyone
else, players must devote a significant amount of their time and energy to practicing, playing, and training for a team
that is losing games and fan support. Losing a game is tough for any dedicated athlete, but losing fans is
even worse.

Many students don’t associate with football players. They automatically classify players as dumb, smelly, and aggressive. They don’t care if
the players hang out together as long as it’s not near them. Some players reinforce this image, but generally myths
about football players are blown way out of proportion.

Some players do tend to keep to themselves, but this is natural for a group of young men that must
face so much adversity together. As sophomore corner-back Eric McClarty pointed out, football players stick together because other students won’t
associate with them.

In order to break down the football stereotypes and release the players from their clan, we must integrate them into
student life. Students should be willing to talk to players and eat with them. Students should also welcome players into
their organizations. Also, players must be willing to associate with students and they should try to devote some of their
free time to campus activities.

As more students get to know the players better, they will empathize with their plight. When they go to a
game they won’t say “Hey look, there’s number 99,” they'll say “Hey look, there’s my friend.” Bringing the football team
into the mainstream of the college community may not make the Wildcats instant winners, but it should increase fan support.
Regardless of whether the team wins or loses tomorrow, we should appreciate their efforts. As students, we owe them this
decency and respect.

Sex Survey

The Davidsonian is conducting a campus-wide survey on student sexual behavior and attitudes for several reasons. First, we feel that
this survey can reveal important aspects of the Davidson students’ attitudes toward responsibility and maturity in matters of sex.

Second, if students take the survey seriously, it will reveal an accurate measure of how Davidson students grow in sexual
maturity. Because the results will be compiled on the College’s computer, the actual analysis will be a complete and accurate
representation of the data received. The survey’s accuracy, however, will depend on students completing the questions with the maturity which
all Davidson students are rumored to possess.

Third, we distributed the survey because we feel student sexuality is newsworthy. Despite the collegiate atmosphere, the impression exists among
many here that misconceptions and fears still exist. Most, if not all, college students are evaluating the place of sexuality
in their lives. Since The Davidsonian acts as a campus-wide medium for the free exchange of ideas among members of
the college community, we feel that it is important for the newspaper to reflect the feeling of the campus on
issues such as these.

The Davidsonian editorial board, after much discussion, has selected and reviewed the questions involved, and the survey has been critiqued
for academic integrity by a member of the Political Science department.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000 ext. 149 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, North
Carolina 28036. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: David McGee, Assistant News Editor. Chet Barksdale, Andy Clark, Roxanna Guilford, Wayne Magruder, Bruce Plourde, GregSmouse, Julie; Sternal,
Aaron; Taylor, Lisa; Thomas, David; Van Pelt, Elizabeth; White, Ted; Wilson, Features Staff: Brian Butler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris, Ida
Phillips, Allison Wills; Sports Staff: Scott Huie, Assistant Sports Editor: Boyd Blackburn, Kerry Brown, Dave Earnhardt, Pam Harmann, Rand Hartsell,
Frank Schwalbe; Photography Staff: Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael Dent, Caryl Dawson, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Mike Jester, Laura McGee, Carroll Overton,
Anderson Scott, Mike Snell, Bruce von Stein; Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey, Alva Moore, Susan Norman; Circulation Staff: David
McCurry, Manager; William White; Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt; Production Staff: Kevin Horan, Rob Hollenbeck; Compositors:
Lisa Thomas, Lou Hamilton, Debby Williams; Copy Editing: Christine Jackson.

© AE cane Wm ee Ae Deon AT TA ERA tale, te Ne ART IS RELIGION TO ME. AT LEAST
IF IT WERE MANDATORY PEOPLE COULD HATE COMING TO UT, NO CHAPEL HOUR.

LETTERS

Das Boot

To the Editor:

Up until last week, I found a striking resemblance between Matt Morris’ film reviews and athlete’s foot — both are
bothersome but can be ignored with a little effort. Morris’ critique of Das Boot, however, went beyond his usual cutesy
shallowness. Let’s face it, Matt, you stepped into the realm of ludicrous with this turkey of a review.

The review itself shows an astonishing lack of thought. Every point Morris makes in his first paragraph is contradicted by
his statements in the second. “Generally detestable characters” somehow becomes “Jurgen Prochnow’s vigilant, solid, experienced captain.” According to Morris’ first
part, “the film could have been an acceptable anti-war film.” Redundancy aside, look at his comment in the last paragraph:
“Wolfgang Petersen [the director] over-embraces the anti-war message.” What, for crying out loud, is this pseudo-critic trying to say? How
can a “very safe, very boring, very painful” film end with “a final image that is captivatingly beautiful?”

I had not seen the film before it came to Davidson. Frankly, I found it to be a powerful and
gripping movie throughout. The so-called “detestable” characters evoked strong sympathy from me. As to Morris’ contempt of the “lousy special
effects,” I want to know what he finds more important, the message or the medium. Let’s not forget that this
is the same Matt Morris who is bringing Tobe Hooper’s Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Mad Max to Davidson as Fine
Films!

John Munson and his merry elves work pretty hard bringing the Pop Films to Davidson. I think they deserve well-thought-out
meticulous reviews. Obviously, they — and we — won't be getting anything near that good from Matt Morris. But keep
running his reviews, by all means. I want to find out how far my threshold of disgust actually extends.

David W. Sisk ’85

Moral Repugnancy

To the Editor:

In the Opinions page of the October 21 edition of The Davidsonian, Dr. Lance Stell of the Department of Philosophy
discussed what a rational, morally sensitive person should think about gun control. I hope that every Davidson student and faculty
member finds his logic and conclusions as repugnant as I do. The simple fact is that guns are made to
kill. Dr. Stell points out that the Japanese assault rate is one-ninth the assault rate of the United States and
that their murder rate is one-fifth ours. He then points out that this means the “success rate” of assault in
Japan is twice as high as ours. Does he mean that the Japanese would be better off if each citizen
had a handgun?

Dr. Stell states that “only 0.02 percent of handguns are involved in a homicide annually.” This statement alone is enough
evidence to warrant gun control. If there are 250,000,000 persons in this country, a 0.02 percent rate translates into 50,000
deaths per year! This rate translates into every Davidson student being shot to death 37 times a year! And note
well that Dr. Stell’s statistics did not include those persons who were shot but whose wounds were not lethal!

True, the issue is complex, but, in my opinion, it is irrational, immoral, and insensitive not to support gun control.

John H. Williamson, Ph.D.
Professor and Chairman, Department of Biology
