6 Friday, October 28, 1983/The Davidsonian

Football Players: Nose guard Levi Jordan commented that the team becomes closer by practicing together, like “one big family.” Senior
leader Jeff McSwain said Farrell “doesn’t play down the fact that we're a special group. But special doesn’t mean separate.”
Farrell realizes that the “football team is somewhat different from the rest of the school,” but he tries very hard
to “make players aware that they are part of the student body.”

History Professor David Shi, who played varsity football at Furman, sees “a certain clannishness developing” among football players. He admits
that it is “understandable” given the stress they undergo and the time they spend together. “Nevertheless,” said Shi, “one would
hope that at a small school like Davidson it could be minimized.”

Dean of Students Will Terry would also like to see football mainstreamed in student life. Said Terry: “Ideally what I
hope for the football program is a team composed of students who are well integrated into the life of the
campus. This includes fraternities and eating clubs, the spirit of the college in terms of the honor system and in
terms of academic and community life.” “Such an integration,” Terry said, “will elicit enthusiastic support and encouragement from all segments
of the student body and most other areas of the campus.”

Sophomore cornerback Eric McClarty admits that the football team does stick together, but he maintains they only do so because
they are forced to stick together. “All of us sit together,” said McClarty, “not because we only want to sit
with ourselves, but because no one else will sit with us.”

Stereotyping

Terry believes that it is “sometimes true” that students stereotype players and separate them from college life. Warned Terry, “We
always have to be careful of categorizing people and ascribing to all of them characteristics we see in one person.
Such categorization benefits no one.”

McSwain agreed that the “dumb jock image stereotype” is present at other schools but not as bad at Davidson “because
of the kind of person you have to be to get into Davidson.” He noted that football players must pass
the same entrance requirements that other students must pass.

Jordan disagreed with McSwain. He believes that most students view players as a “subculture.” He also claimed that this problem
is especially bad for black football players because they face two kinds of discrimination. Jordan said that when he was
a freshman, a newsman from Channel-9 asked him if the only reason he got into Davidson was because he was
a football player. According to Jordan, “Basically, around here, people look at the black football players as someone who is
not supposed to be here. We are stereotyped as being the bad guys on campus. Our social life is affected
and even our grades in class.”

Farrell does not believe that professors discriminate against his players, but he pointed out that “a number of professors don’t
approve of the program we have, which may affect the players.” According to Shi, “There has been for years a
belief on the part of some students and members of the faculty that football players are not serious students.”

Plott Scholarship continued from page 1

The program will offer a unique alternative to a strict conservatory education. “I know parents who want their talented children
to earn a Davidson degree in addition to a musical education,” Robinson said.

Both Welsh and Griffith pointed out that misunderstandings have occurred between Robinson and themselves because Robinson is not directly involved
with the decisions made on campus. “The program is still very much within the original parameters,” Griffith said. He explained
that putting the dream of a scholarship program into actuality takes time.

Through the admissions department, the College will begin a national campaign for the program next year and will conduct a
competition for two Plott scholarships for the 1984-85 school year, according to Griffith. The committee hopes to establish a panel
of distinguished musicians which will choose two Plott scholars each year. The scholarship will provide $2,500 a year to each
student, who will use the money to pursue his or her own musical interests. The music department will guide and
approve the student’s proposals.

Also, a Plott festival will be held annually “to keep up the interest of the people who have given,” Welsh
said. The Donald Plott Memorial Festival Concert held last year has raised over $300,000 for the Plott music scholarship program.
Two alumni, William Workman ’62 and Robinson, both distinguished musicians, performed in the festival along with other alumni musicians and
Zubin Mehta, music director of the New York Philharmonic.

The upcoming Plott festival, scheduled for April 6, will feature a lecture by Paul Hume, a friend of Plott’s and
a retired music critic of the Washington Post. McDonald will also give her junior recital at the festival.

Director of Development Jack Powers said an additional $80,000-100,000 must be raised in order to implement the scholarship. The event
fulfilled the desire of many to honor Plott and establish a scholarship in his name. In addition, the College received
a grant from the Hearst Foundation to supplement the Plott scholarship fund.football program that there may be a few professors
who discriminate. Personally, I would find that hard to believe.”

“It is true, however,” continued Shi, “that there are faculty members who have made it clear that they oppose the
program as currently established.” Religion Professor David Kaylor is one of those professors. Said Kaylor, “From my perspective, subsidized athletics
of any kind should have no place at a college or university.” He feels that the whole football program ought
to be reconsidered by a committee composed of students, faculty, administrators, and trustees.

Backstabbers

McSwain said that most players like Farrell as a person and respect him as a coach. They have faith in
Farrell because “he does the best he can. He works harder than anyone else,” he said. But one player who
wished to remain anonymous said that Farrell called him a “backstabber” when he quit the team. Another player who wished
to remain anonymous said that although he received no personal verbal abuse after he quit, he knows that Farrell abused
him in front of other players and told players not to associate with him anymore.

McSwain said that he has indirectly heard about Farrell abusing his players, but he has never seen a coach “flagrantly
abuse a player in front of the team. Sometimes he [Farrell] will talk about how he’s upset about people quitting.
I’ve never heard him mention names,” he said.

Farrell denied these allegations. He said players “realize that I don’t take kindly to someone quitting the team,” but he
distinguishes between quitting the team and reevaluating a commitment. At the end of each season between November and January, Farrell
asks his players to evaluate their commitment to the program. If they decide that they no longer want to play,
then he will not hold it against them. Farrell would understand why someone quit in the middle of the season
only if football came between him and “God, family, country.” Farrell also believes “studies are a weak excuse for quitting
the team. If you have time to goof around or to do anything else, then you have time to study.”

Of the 29 or so freshmen who enter Davidson’s football program, around 15 are still on the team by senior
year. Most players decide in their first two years whether they want to stay on the team. He noted that
Davidson’s attrition rate for football is good when compared to other schools: at Dartmouth 20-25 of the 85 freshmen who
enter the program finish it; at Harvard 20-25 of the 120 freshmen who enter the program finish it.

Shi said he has heard stories about “the immature way” in which the coaching staff has handled players who quit.
“If what I’ve heard is true,” said Shi, then he said it would be scandalous at a place like Davidson.
The players who quit because of a personal problem affirmed his continued support for the team, but he does question
Farrell’s policy toward quitters. He said that Farrell should be more concerned with each player’s development as a human being,
regardless of whether it involves football. According to this former player, Farrell makes quitters feel as if they’ll “never amount
to anything once they quit. If you quit the team you’ll beat your wife and kids, you’ll be a quitter
for the rest of your life.” Said Farrell, “I feel very strongly about anyone quitting anything.”

Chapel Hour continued from page 1

According to Summers, the meetings would be held in the gallery and an informal reception would follow. “I think it
is a very important symbol of our being a church-related college in a non-sectarian way,” CCRL Chairman and Dean of
Students Will Terry said. He also found it “significant that the students [on the committee] are the ones who are
overwhelmingly for it, and the faculty are divided on the issue.”

Faculty Opposition

Opposition to the recommendation centers around the religious nature of the gatherings. English Professor John Engell is in favor of
an hour set aside for assemblies and speakers but objects to the name “chapel hour.” He fears what he calls
an “over-emphasis on Davidson’s religious orientation.” Engell said Davidson is perceived as a fine school and a Protestant school, and
that perception often limits the kind of people who apply to Davidson. “We would be a stronger school if we
attracted more Catholic or Jewish students, for example,” he said. Having a College-sanctioned “chapel hour” included as such in the
College schedule “would send the wrong signals to other students and to Davidson students,” according to Engell.

Student CCRL member Hartley Hall said the title “chapel hour” does not necessarily denote a Protestant assembly, and he stressed
the interdenominational nature of the proposed assemblies. The idea of the assembly is to “appeal to a broader spectrum of
students than Davidson Christian Fellowship or other strictly religious groups,” he said. Summers said “the idea is now purely in
the discussion stages.”

As recently as 30 years ago, Davidson students were required to attend chapel six days a week. Each student had
an assigned seat in Love Auditorium and roll was taken from the balcony. The program usually included a hymn, an
address by a guest speaker, and general College announcements. “Chapel” was abolished in 1969 after a student strike.
