The Davidsonian/Friday, October 14, 1983

Computer Use Approved
By DAVID VAN PELT

Computer Director John Casey is expected to sanction officially the use of academic computers by student organizations this week. Casey
said Wednesday that Coordinator of Academic Computing Hansford Epes is currently drafting a resolution that will allow student organizations to
use the Prime 750 computer. Casey expects to receive the resolution “probably by the end of the week.” Casey will
then formally adopt the policy unless he finds objections to the resolution.

The resolution is intended to authorize student organization use of the Prime 750 and also to establish guidelines concerning its
use. Storing information on computer disks will be limited, according to Casey, and the Computer Service Center will reserve the
right to prohibit organizations from using the computer should it become necessary, as long as sufficient notice is given.

Casey allowed that some student organizations have formerly kept records in the Prime 750, and that in most of these
instances “it has been students who have kept organization information in their own accounts.” While the CSC does not actively
prohibit this procedure, he said, it is contrary to the assumed purpose of student accounts.

SGA President Hunter Monroe first proposed a resolution permitting student organization use of the Prime 750 at an October 4
SGA meeting. After the SGA Senate unanimously approved the motion, it was brought before the Committee on Academic Uses of
the Computer the next day. The Committee voted in favor of the proposal, and Casey agreed “in principle” to a
resolve granting student organizations use of the Prime 750. Epes’s resolution will determine the details of the plan.

Monroe and Casey have also discussed having Prime 750 terminals installed in the Grey Student Union Building to be used
by student organizations. Casey said that although the CSC was “not opposed to it,” and that it was likely to
happen eventually, such terminals would not be restricted to organization use. “I don’t envision a terminal exclusively for student organizations,”
he said.

An alternative to the Prime 750 is for student organizations to purchase their own microcomputers. Monroe said that the $2,500-3,500
cost is a major obstacle.

---

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due.
This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours through May 31, 1984.

MAKE TRACKS FOR THE BEST EATIN’ ALL AROUND!

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’, bring along this money-savin' coupon.

STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND ORANGE JUICE $1.29

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due.
This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants
through May 31, 1984.

REGULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due.
This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants
through May 31, 1984.

© 1983 Hardee’s Food Systems Inc.

---

Pressure (Continued from page 1)

...sists that most pressure is internal. Freshmen struggle to maintain high school records, and many upperclassmen, after achieving a good
G.P.A., put pressure on themselves to continue doing well. Many students experience “test anxiety,” where they do well in class
and on papers, but draw a blank at test time. Ballard says that...The counseling office offers workshops on test anxiety
to improve students’ performances on tests. Some students feel parental pressure—often for no reason—sometimes parents’ expectations are not what students
think. Often the parents must adjust to college changes along with the student and change their demands on their child.
“Generally,” Ballard said, “by the end of sophomore or into junior year, students have the hang of things.” Pressure as
an upperclassman comes from perfectionist personalities, from being involved in other aspects of college life, and from striving toward a
career or graduate school. Is pressure really necessary? To a certain extent, yes, Holland said, but one must not overemphasize
it. He says that at Davidson, “Nobody’s hard just to be hard. Professors pitch their challenge high enough so students
will rise to meet it.” The key to dealing with pressure, Holland advised, is to get into a routine and
“put in time studying when it counts.” He suggests studying right after class. If students discipline themselves and honestly feel
that they put their best effort into their classes, Holland said they will feel good about themselves and will not
feel as pressured.

Pitchers (Continued from page 1)

That here, but under the law you “must take some reasonable care” to see that no one underage is drinking.
Pritchard is also making compensations for this action because “I feel that if you take something from the students you
must give them something in return.” He has reduced beer-by-the-cup prices ten percent. Pritchard will introduce larger cups so students
will not have to buy more so often. He has already introduced a 16-ounce size, and a 20-ounce cup should
arrive by Friday. SGA members Warren Gould and Todd Wiebusch have met with Pritchard to discuss the situation and offer
alternative suggestions. Gould said they discussed the possibility of restricting pitchers to the balcony and allowing only 19-year-olds to drink
there. They also discussed designating certain areas for serving pitchers, refusing entrance to those under 19. Pritchard does not support
these ideas. “If we served pitchers on the balcony it wouldn’t be very cost-effective. We would have to pay someone
to check I.D.s at the bottom of the stairs and hire a bartender for upstairs,” he said. He disagrees with
the idea of special Mon.-Sat. pitcher nights because “I don’t feel that we should operate an exclusive club. Everyone should
be able to go.”

“I see three years worth of having a right being taken away,” said Bowen. “Two-thirds of the student body is
being affected because one-fourth is not able to drink.” “It was more casual when there were pitchers. [I liked] going
any night of the week, sitting with friends for an hour or so, and being able to relax with a
pitcher,” Bowen said. Students involved seem willing to try to work out conflicts. Both Thompson and Bowen agreed that the
Dining Service should have an open forum. “Maybe they could ask [ABC Officer John] Barefoot to come... we want to
get down to the nucleus of the problem. It boils down to more than just a banner on the window
ledge,” Thompson said. “We understand his [Pritchard’s] situation,” Bowen said. “However, we also understand the students’ point of view.” Pritchard
said, “I admit it is a very difficult situation, [but] I don’t know how to solve it. I am open
to suggestions.”

CATHY’S BOOK SWAP
Main St. & Hwy. 115
Cornelius, N.C.
Swap and Sell
Novels
Mystery
Science Fiction
Historical Romance
Silhouette
Ecstasy Romance
Western
