4 Friday, March 25, 1983 The Davidsonian

Three New Professors to Arrive this Fall
By BOB LOPER

When Davidson’s new president arrives on campus next fall, he will be joined by at least three new professors: History
Professor Susan Keefe, Psychology Professor Cole Barton, and English Professor Gail Gibson.

Susan Keefe will join the faculty as an assistant professor of History and will teach in the History Department and
the Humanities program. As an expert in medieval history, she will fill a gap in the Davidson faculty, according to
History Department chairman Malcolm Lester. “We have not had a full-time medievalist [at Davidson] in several years.” Lester says that
Keefe’s special interests include “medieval intellectual and ecclesiastical history” and the relationship of ritual to medieval society. She has published
articles in the Dictionary of the Middle Ages and Carolingian Essays, and she has also done extensive research work in
Europe at the University of Münster and the University of Munich.

Keefe is an unmarried native of Rye, New York. She will come to Davidson from the California Institute of Technology
in Pasadena, where she is now completing a two-year appointment as a Mellon Instructor of History. She holds a B.A.
degree in History and Classics from the University of Pennsylvania and an M.A. and Ph.D. from the University of Toronto.

Cole Barton will receive an appointment as an assistant professor of Psychology. Psychology Department Chairman Robert Kelton said that Barton
will be replacing Robert Kennedy, who resigned over a year ago. Barton’s main teaching area will be abnormal psychology, but
he is also tentatively scheduled to teach Psychology 102 — Introduction to Personality.

Dog Burns Hog-tied And Gasoline Doused

A dog was found hog-tied and burning on the walkway in front of the Sigma Phi Epsilon house at 3:00
p.m. on March 17. According to a Town of Davidson police report, SPE member Alan Fields heard a noise outside
the fraternity house. He went to the window and observed two white males running away and an object burning in
front of the house. Ken Howarth, another witness, said he saw “a dog with all four legs tied together burning
on top of a road sign.” According to the police report, the offenders poured gasoline on the dog and ignited
it. The police also commented, “It appears that the dog had been dead before [it was] ignited.” The police will
continue their investigation tomorrow. Chief Jack Warlick says he hopes “to know by Friday who was responsible.”

According to Kelton, Barton is highly active in publication and research. He has written and contributed to a large number
of specialized articles, and he has received numerous research grants. His particular area of interest and research is family therapy
and counseling. Kelton adds that Barton was “very highly thought of by the students who met him” when he visited
the Davidson campus in early February. Judging from a presentation which Barton gave during that visit, Kelton thinks that he
is an excellent, effective classroom teacher. Barton holds B.A. and M.A. degrees from the University of Utah and will earn
a Ph.D. from Utah before coming to Davidson.

By JOHN RUPPENTHAL

The Greyhound Bus Company plans to drop the Davidson stop from the Charlotte-Mooresville-Winston-Salem route because of its low ridership and
declining profits. Greyhound’s proposal would end all service to Davidson, although a route would continue to operate from Charlotte to
Winston-Salem via I-77. As Mayor Nancy MacCormac tried to point out to the N.C. Public Utilities Commission at a hearing
in Charlotte Monday night, the deletion of Davidson from the route will be a hardship for the handful of residents
who depend on the bus for transportation. “Our concern is that Davidson is losing our only public transportation and that
a few people will experience significant inconvenience,” she said. “I felt that the town was responsible to say something for
those who wouldn’t normally speak up for themselves.” The N.C. Public Staff asked MacCormac to assess the impact Greyhound’s proposal
would have on the community. The Public Utilities Commission will decide in April whether the proposal is an acceptable balance
between service and profitability.tween public need and company profit. Greyhound has serviced the community of Davidson for over 25 years.
Until 1981, the company operated a “terminal” where customers could buy tickets and where cargo could be handled and stored.
For 20 years, Ralph Quackenbush, owner of The Workbench on Main Street, managed to divert time from his job as
a furniture repairman to serve as an agent for Greyhound, selling tickets and answering phone calls at this part-time terminal.
He estimates that Greyhound made between $1000-$1500 a month on the Davidson stop, but that when the company decided to
end cargo runs to the area in 1981, schedules became unreliable and ridership decreased. He feels that Greyhound is partly
responsible for the lack of interest in the bus stop. Several times he has watched the bus drive by prospective
customers who waited on the wrong side of the road. Quackenbush has noticed that since he closed his terminal in
1981, ridership has decreased as has the number of buses that travel through the town each day: only two pass
through now compared to six a few years ago.

Mayor MacCormac recognizes the problems that low ridership pose to a private company. She tried to stress to the Public
Utilities Commission that several Davidson residents would be seriously affected by the elimination of the route: one woman would lose
her job of ten years; another woman would be unable to keep monthly medical appointments in Winston-Salem; and several citizens
“would be unable to take care of business matters requiring monthly trips to Charlotte.” MacCormac also tried to determine what
impact the elimination of the service would have on Davidson students. Only one student admitted to using the bus on
a regular basis, although several others use Greyhound to make occasional excursions into Charlotte. Nevertheless, MacCormac is concerned that those
who depend on the bus as their only form of transportation will be left in an unfortunate situation that the
town is not equipped to handle.

Although MacCormac admits that it is unlikely that the Utilities Commission will reject Greyhound’s proposal, all hope for those seriously
affected by the deletion of the route is not lost. Mecklenburg County is currently conducting a study to determine the
feasibility of using county vans to transport citizens from the northern part of the county to human service agencies in
Charlotte. A possibility exists that a bus service may be arranged to carry nomadic workers from Davidson and surrounding communities
to Charlotte in the morning and back again in the afternoon. MacCormac says that the study will be completed by
the end of spring and, depending on the recommendations that it contains, may be implemented shortly thereafter. If additional employees
have to be hired and vans purchased, the plan will take longer to initiate.

He now teaches as an Instructor at Utah. Originally from Rule, Texas, he is married and has three children. Gail
Gibson will come to Davidson as an Assistant Professor of English. She is being hired through the MacArthur Foundation Grant
which enables Davidson to attract outstanding young professors. She is currently teaching as an assistant professor at Princeton University, where
she has worked since 1975. Gibson specializes in Middle English literature and will replace professor Ann McMillan. Gibson has published
widely in her field and has done extensive research in England. According to English Department Chairman Gill Holland, Gibson is
“a real fine teacher and very well-known as a scholar.” Holland says that Gibson met with many students on a
recent visit to Davidson, and that they all seemed very impressed by her. Gibson earned her B.A. and M.A. degrees
from Duke University and her Ph.D. from the University of Virginia. Holland notes that she minored in art as an
undergraduate, and art is still one of her major interests. She will be teaching Humanities, medieval literature courses, and English
101 at Davidson. She is married to a medical doctor and has two children.

The Black Student Coalition is sponsoring a student fashion show this Sunday evening at 9 p.m. in the 900 Room.
