10 Friday, April 22, 1983 / The Davidsonian

By JOHNNY EDWARDS

It is hard to believe that Murmur is R.E.M.’s debut album, considering the amount of enthusiasm they have generated, especially around Davidson. They have managed to win Village Voice’s award for single of the year almost solely on the basis of an EP, an obscure single, and their live act. R.E.M.’s popularity comes from a chemistry which few bands achieve: a kinetic live show, strong melodies, a rhythm section made for dancing, simple yet textured guitar, rarely understandable lyrics (which enable everyone to attach their own significance to them), and a vocal style which immediately catches one’s attention.

Murmur does not vary much from the old formula, but its superior production makes it much better than the EP Chronic Town. Where the EP’s production is lackluster, milky, and simplistic, the album's is creative, crystal clear, and subtly complex. A certain delicacy characterizes the arrangements — every instrument, voice, and dial twist is “just so,” making the album understated but not sparse. This is the way albums are supposed to be.

REM Improves with Murmur

The songs on Murmur are of the same quality and consistency as Chronic Town, often transcending it. They destroy inhibition in an amazing manner and, each in its own way, make the listener feel all different kinds of good, at times even childlike emotions. There is the rallying commitment of “Radio Free Europe” (the Village Voice single), the reflectiveness of “Perfect Circle,” the glee of “We Walk,” and the exuberance of “Sitting Still” (a personal favorite). Here is a band that gets its profundity from bypassing intellect and going straight for the limbic system.

By obscuring the lyrics except for snatches referring to Moral Kiosks, walking in woods, and elysian fields, and by backing straightforward lead vocals with unintelligible chants, R.E.M. encourages a sense of wonder, perhaps bordering on mysticism, designed for the nonrational in the listener. While many bands attempt to do this, R.E.M. is among the few that excel at it. Their songs have such a universal appeal, in fact, that parents, teenage sisters, ultra-sophisticated college students, and even small children can enjoy them.

The Air Force needs doctors. So, we may help finance your college education with an Air Force ROTC scholarship.

We have three and two-year AFROTC PreHealth Professions Scholarships for qualified applicants. These scholarships pay full tuition, lab and incidental fees, books, plus $100 a month (tax free) during the school year. Upon completion of Air Force ROTC and baccalaureate degree requirements, you'll be commissioned as an Air Force second lieutenant. When accepted to medical school, additional assistance for medical school expenses is guaranteed with an Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship.

Get together with an Air Force ROTC representative and discuss these two programs. It may be the most important talk you’ve ever had about your future.

ATTENTION

NEED FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE?

PREMED MAJORS

Air Force ROTC

Gateway to a great way of life.

DAVIDSON PLAZA SHOPPING CENTER DAVIDSON, N. C. PHONE 892-7211

If you have at least two years of college left, you can spend six weeks at our Army ROTC Basic Camp this summer and earn approximately.

And if

can enter tf

But the b happens 01 That's w