10 Wednesday, December 14, 1983 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ann Meador, Editor
David Resnik, Executive Editor
Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor
John Gathings, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

The Sex Poll

We won't be publishing the results of the sex survey we distributed October 26. We have decided not to publish the results for two major reasons. First, we made serious mistakes in designing the survey. Some of the questions we formulated were unjustifiable. Had we known more about research design and spent more time on this essential aspect of the project, we could have developed a more relevant set of questions. Because we want to publish only data from which legitimate conclusions can be drawn, we cannot use survey answers which fail to present generalizable data.

We encountered a second problem in the attitudes of students responding to the survey. Although 450 of 1100 surveys came back to us (a good response by survey standards), we learned from students that some groups said they planned to distort their answers systematically, and other groups decided not to fill out their surveys at all. If we had been able to anticipate where the answers might be biased, we still could have run the results. But when a bias can lean in any of several ways, it becomes impossible to use the data received, even for a limited purpose.

Though the data was essentially meaningless (we have destroyed all the data we received and compiled), we have learned a great deal from conducting this survey. In many ways we have become as aware of student views on sex as if we had collected generalizable data. Reaction to the survey has shown us that many students and administrators here consider sexual attitudes private enough that no one should consider examining them. At the same time, however, some students expressed great interest in the possibility that Davidson might once have the chance to confront its attitudes toward a closet-bound topic. Our disappointment about the survey is most acute when we hear these students say they do want to discuss the issue. We appreciate the honest answers we received from students contributing to a serious undertaking, and we only wish we had conducted a poll which would have given some real answers. We felt when we first considered the survey that these were important issues for discussion. We still believe that mature discussion of sensitive issues, including sexual attitudes, is appropriate for a student newspaper.

The Athletic Survey

The Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics has taken an important first step toward developing a comprehensive policy on athletics. They are surveying faculty and students on issues concerning athletics. The Council does not intend the surveys to favor any particular point of view; they are attempting to gather a representation of faculty and student opinion. We urge that students take their athletics surveys more seriously than they took the sex survey.

Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000 ext. 149 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: David McGee, Assistant News Editor; Chet Barksdale, Andy Clark, Roxanna Guilford, Duncan Fraser, Wayne Magruder, Bruce Plourde, Greg Smouse, Julie Stemmal, Aaron Taylor, Lisa Thomas, David Van Pelt.Elizabeth White, Ted Wilson  
Features Staff: Brian Butler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris, Ida Phillips, Allison Wills  
Sports Staff: Scott Huie, Assistant Sports Editor, Boyd Blackburn, Kerry Brown, Dave Eamhardt, Pam Harmann, Rand Hartsell, Frank Schwalbe  
Photography Staff: Carroll Overton, Assistant Photography Editor: Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael Dent, Cary Dawson, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Mike Jester, Laura McGee, Anderson Scott, Mike Snell, Bruce von Stein  
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey, Alva Moore, Susan Norman  
Circulation Staff: David McCurry, William White  
Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt  
Production Staff: Kevin Horan  
Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Lou Hamilton, Debra Jean Williams  
Copy Editing: Christine Jackson  

Letters

Example

To the Editors:  
Amid all the talk about Davidson’s embarrassing football situation I am reminded of the action taken by Johnson C. Smith University’s head coach, Wylie Harris. Coach Harris correctly observed that when a football program fails, the head man bears the responsibility. Consequently, he resigned, made no excuses, and wished his successor well. Now there’s a man, one who does his school proud. In the absence of a president here, and in light of no action by the Trustees, our coach should think of Davidson first and follow Coach Harris’s example.  
Nason Fishback

Kernel

To the Editors:  
The article “A Kernel of Truth” (The Davidsonian, Dec. 7) blew my mind. After reading this “opinions article” I began to wonder if authors Lorenz and Cooper composed this missive while loaded on the very “addicting hallucinogens” they so viciously condemn. Are you hypnotized? For the uninitiated, the article of which I am speaking lauded the “wonders of Christ” and told of how “all men are lame.” I’m willing to buy almost anything I read if it is well supported and most importantly well thought out. Yet Lorenz and Cooper offer us poor paraplegics nothing more than collected quotes from a single source, the Bible! Why, they do a better job than the Reader’s Digest condensed version! Furthermore, as the reader hops from quote to quote, nowhere will he find a single original thought coming from the minds of the authors. Lame assumptions (pun unintended) are made and not supported; all is innate, intrinsic. Everybody, they seem to presume, should know about these marvelous things of which they speak. Which gets right down to the meat of this letter — why was this article written? I don’t know, but I do know one thing — a religion where its members walk around claiming to know the definition of fantasy is more than stupid; it’s downright scary.  
Matt Morris

Endowment

To the Editors:  
As Chairman of Davidson’s 1983 Living Endowment campaign, I’m writing to send an enthusiastic thanks to the 300 or so of you who took part in the annual SGA-sponsored Phonathon in early December. You were good to give your time and talent to this effort. I understand that some appeared on more than one of the seven nights. Your results were spectacular:  
1. 3,920 alumni were contacted.  
2. 885 agreed to participate at some level.  
3. 1,176 pledged specific amounts totaling $104,000.  
4. 171 alumni who had never contributed before agreed to break their shameful record.  
5. A high point. One alumnus who had never given in the more than 20 years since he left Davidson pledged $500. His caller was a freshman of the fairer sex. There may be a message for next year in number 5 above, but this note is to thank all of you — guys and gals who worked on this project with such great success. I hope you got a feeling of satisfaction — you most certainly helped our College.  
Ed Lucas ’42