6 Friday, December 2, 1983 / The Davidsonian Special Edition

Letters To The Editors

System Working Well

To the Editors:

I was a student at Davidson under the semester system. Given the average workload of a Davidson course, we felt that preparing for five or even four courses during the semester was an excessive burden and created extreme pressure around the mid-term, term paper, and final exam periods. It was argued that going to a term system would allow for more focus on the part of the students and faculty, and increased flexibility in programming.

One of the current arguments for switching back to the semester system is the concept of “percolation time” which is suggested to occur by not meeting every day. This may be true to some extent, but is very difficult to prove, and I remember well that the off day for one or two courses was the on day for two or three others. When we campaigned for a change to the term system I cannot remember students bemoaning the loss of “percolation time.” In addition, certain courses which now benefit from logical sequencing throughout the year had to be paralleled under the semester system, eliminating the opportunity for a different kind of “percolation.”

The term system has allowed us to offer several ten-week programs abroad, such as the spring term in France sponsored by the art department, which would be severely disadvantaged, if even possible, on the semester system. This is only one of the many examples that could be discussed which demonstrate the creative possibilities of course development and use of physical plant allowed by the term system.

I believe the goals of focus and flexibility have been achieved. We should stay with a system that is working well.

Herb Jackson
Art Department

Glimmer of Hope: Retaining Trimesters

To the Editors:

There we were, deep in the throes of depression, reconciling ourselves to the upcoming year of strife and turmoil. Suddenly, we saw a glimmer of hope: the reconsideration of the semester system. Because the credit-hour proposal was not adopted, the semester system lost one of its major advantages. The trimester/semester controversy had begun again.

With the renewed controversy, we realized how little we appreciated the present trimester system and how much we have taken it and its advantages for granted. The major reasons we support trimesters are:
—taking or teaching fewer courses at one time allows for more concentration of effort;
—three new beginnings are better than two for sustaining interest and enthusiasm;
—the length of breaks allows students the opportunity to enjoy a genuine vacation;
—ample time is allotted for exams (8 exam periods for 3 exams).

Other advantages are:
—a change would necessitate difficult adjustments in some areas,
—there is more flexibility for course sequencing;
—the greater flexibility is an advantage for several off-campus programs,
—intensity is better for language learning.

The trimester system makes Davidson College distinctive. There is no need to change a system that is working and working well. If we continue on this course of apathy and indifference, then a vital facet of the Davidson Experience will be lost, and we will have no one to blame but ourselves.

Edward L. Hay, Jr.
Beadsie Woo

Consider the SGA Trimester Petition

To the Editors:

I want to make several comments relating to the trimester system vote next Tuesday. First, faculty members do consider student opinion. However, when an SGA president distorts and discounts that opinion in a faculty meeting, as happened in last fall’s semester system vote, the results should not surprise us. We cannot force the faculty to agree with us; we can only argue our position effectively. The faculty recognize the pedagogical futility of encouraging students to develop and express their own opinions and then ignoring them outside the classroom.

Second, the SGA Senate has decided a petition will best indicate student opinion on the trimester issue. We do not mean to change opinions — most of you have discussed the issue thoroughly. Neither do we ignore those of you who want the proposed semester system. Your decision not to sign the petition will register your opinion.

Third, I will be the only student in next Tuesday’s faculty meeting, as usual. I am willing to talk with any student about this issue or any other.

Hunter Monroe
SGA President

Semester Change: ‘Not Worth It

To the Editors:

The practical problems of switching to the semester system are very real. This letter will focus on the standpoint of the registrar in that the problems are not only real but costly. Registrar Richard Burts showed me a list of the spaces left in courses after add/drop was over. Under the current system there are an abundance of course choices and a student can usually get his first course choice. However, under a semester system a studentwould not necessarily get his first choice—he would have to take what was available. Burts said a “period of transition” with instability and confusion would “last at least five years. The students would be affected.” Another problem would be the fair determination of the sequence of advanced courses and their prerequisites after one has already begun under the trimester system. Currently, the College is undergoing a change from the National Computer Registrar (NCR) computer system to the Prime Computer System. Combined with a switch to semesters, this would mean a “great burden” for the Registrar’s office. Burts stated in an interview that we have a tri-term system that works very well. Furthermore, there are accommodations in the current system for student transfers. Burts repeatedly said that the switch to semesters “would be a swap, but there would be no gain.” I cannot say with any integrity that the switch to semesters is worth the change. Beyond any doubt, the quality of education would suffer, while students, the faculty, and each department adjust for five years. There is nothing wrong with semesters, but according to logic and rational thinking, the change borders on insanity. In light of evidence in this letter and others and in the words of the Registrar himself, “it would not be worth it.”

Chet Barksdale

Visiting Student Favors Trimesters

To the Editors:

As a visiting student from Smith College in Massachusetts, I am constantly comparing Smith to Davidson. One aspect of Davidson that I prefer is its trimester schedule. There are two basic reasons for my preference: taking three courses instead of four or five, and having a term of ten weeks rather than fourteen. Keeping up with three sets of assignments is less distracting and sometimes less time-consuming than working on four separate subjects. Because students juggle only three professors’ individual requirements and preferences, they can devote more consideration to each course. Without working more than students at Smith, Davidson men and women have the advantage of pursuing nine courses per year as opposed to eight.

Another advantage the trimester system has over semesters is the shortness of each term. At this time of year, my friends at Smith face two more weeks of class before exams. The enthusiasm with which they entered their new courses in September has by now waned considerably. For me, the temptation to cut classes was greatest in the last three or four weeks of the semester. At Davidson this fall, that temptation never developed into a reality. My interest in all three subjects remained high through the ten weeks of class. Some instructors argue that in the shorter term students don’t have enough time to ruminate over everything they are learning. My response is that while students have a lifetime to reflect, they may have only four years in which to take advantage of the excitement of actual classes.

Christine Jackson

Curriculum Changes Remain Ambiguous

To the Editors:

The various debates over implementing the semester system consider only the benefits and drawbacks of the system itself and not the mechanics of the transition to the new system. The faculty is split on the issue, and by evidence of an unofficial referendum last year, the student body is vehemently against the change. It seems that the faculty feels little responsibility to or little concern for the views of the student body on the issue. The faculty’s exact degree of responsibility to the Davidson student body is a debatable matter. But in the case of the semester system change, the faculty has an obvious responsibility to the students. The faculty is responsible for working out all the problems and developing a relatively complete plan for a change before they drag our academic careers through the transition.

Exactly how will the change affect the course curriculum? Which courses would be added, dropped, and/or combined? What will the change do to the major requirements in all departments? If faculty members have the answers to these questions, then they are certainly keeping them to themselves. In their haste, they may have not considered these questions, but more disturbing is the possibility that they have the answers and are not publishing them. Faculty members who support the change seem to have little compassion or professional courtesy for the registrar or their fellows in the science department. Do they even care that they only give us one term to modify or redesign our academic strategies? I must spend my last year at Davidson under the semester system if it passes. I cannot afford to be one of the poor fools marred by a rushed and poorly planned changeover. It is reasonable to expect from the faculty of this institution a curricular plan which is as well researched and developed as any work they expect from me.

David S. McCurry