The Davidsonian
Friday, March 18, 1983
15 SPORTS

Basketball Team Rounds Out Season
By STEVE SOUD

A quick recap of the final games of the hoops season past:

UT-Chattanooga
Perhaps the most exciting game all season. 2100 fans. Skip Brown goes 4 for 4, scores eight of the first
twelve. Mocs build a sizeable lead. Cats rally, becomes a seesaw battle. Willie White misses last-second attempt, ball bounces off
20 hands, Skip Clark fires in a three-pointer for a 73-71 Moc win.

UNC-C
Monday night of exams, few students. Revenge on Gully. Students paint hands red, “shot board” tabs Gully, who finishes 3
for 11. KW breaks blowout open with back-to-back slams with seven minutes remaining. Sweet to have that Hornet's Nest after
consecutive double OT losses. JC has a stellar evening, shuts down Randy Davis. 82-73.

Western Carolina
WCU rises out of the ancient Appalachian monuments, truly “God’s country” as some sort of shimmering, man-made homage to his
own petty aspirations. They gave away a moped at halftime. First of three consecutive last home games for opponents. Cats
shoot well (55%) in the first half, but team defense is horrendous. Hosts shoot 69% in the first half. Refs
are clueless. Davidson falls apart in the second half, gets blown out.

VMI
In a building that looks like a phone company. Too close for comfort: Keydets cut it as close as six
late in the game. Cats pull away, don’t disappoint small cheering section. Davidson shoots 71.7% from the field, a school
record.

Marshall
Students are on break, but Henderson Center is pretty full anyway. Last home game for seniors, “Z,” and they're going
for 20 wins. Cats slip behind by 16, but Daddy J ignites comeback with breakaway dunk. Rally, highlighted by JC
alley-oop dunk to Tribus, slices Herd lead to 4. Hosts build it back up, Cats are vanquished.

Western Carolina (again)
Davidson’s fifth seed, Western 4th seed. Officials are horrible. Tribus wants it. Again, valiant second half surge is choked off,
Davidson gets blown out. Thanks, JC, BRo, Cliff, Richard. Davidson avenged a long string of losses — From the Locker
Room to Notre Dame in 1983. Senior Cliff Tribus displays skills that will be sorely missed next year.

Hoops season: final thoughts
An up-and-down Davidson basketball season ended last Thursday afternoon. Western Carolina ran to an 86-62 win over the Wildcats (8-8,
13-15) in the first round of the Southern Conference Tournament. I'd like to highlight some of the highs and lows
of the disappointing season.

Kenny Wilson blossomed into the complete player. At a “small” 6-4, KW banged and bulled his way through the lanes
to become the most potent Wildcat inside threat, and forced defenders to play him on the perimeter with accurate long-range
shooting. His ballhandling improved such that he often brought the ball upcourt against the press. He averaged 17.4 ppg, 5.4
rpg, shot 55.8 percent from the field, and was named 1st team All-Conference.

Cliff Tribus, although inconsistent, was still very good. His last-second three-pointers won games against Western Carolina and Furman, and his
rebounding improved over the season. He averaged 14.4 ppg and 6.0 rpg as he placed on the All-Conference team.

The much-heralded freshmen came along as expected. Although midway through the season Observer writer Glenn Rollins called for more playing
time for the freshmen, I think it a rather uninformed request. Hussey started five seasoned veterans every game. I would
have done the same. Duke coach “K” started all freshmen and sophomores this season and theirs was as disappointing as
ours. Hussey was damned if he did, damned if he didn’t; I think he made the right decision.

Speaking of Glenn Rollins, I think the Charlotte sports media were a low point of this (and every) season. Nary
aPositive word was said by some sports writers in Charlotte. Rollins’s end-of-season report card was farcical if only because in
11 years of covering college basketball he has learned nothing. You beat Notre Dame one Tuesday and they treat the
team as if they're the Second Coming. Lose to ASU the next Tuesday and they consign the team to ink
hell. If anything was worse than the media, it was the officiating. Anyone who saw the Duke game knows we
got “home jobbed” by the referees. The last two Western Carolina games (lost by a total of 44 points) were
exercises in misofficiating. With the possible exception of any three North Carolina games, I don’t think I’ve ever seen referees
so blatantly bias calls against a team. Certainly Western was the better team on both occasions, but how can Davidson
expect to win against two teams? I’m not sure that there’s a good official to be found in this conference.

But enough of the bad stuff. How about Notre Dame? No one’s gonna forget that evening too soon. That was
one of two times I was proud of Davidson fans all season. The other was the UT-Chattanooga game. The students
jammed Johnston Gym for the most important game of the season despite exams. I'll never forget watching Skip Brown defiantly
score eight of the first twelve points. It was a game that had everything — except a Davidson win. But
they came right back with what to me was another big win — beating UNCC for the Hornet’s Nest. None
of the red-handed Davidson enclave who ventured south for the game will unhappily recall KW’s back-to-back slams or John Gullickson’s
3-for-11 performance. It was a banner evening for the Wildcats. Unfortunately, the banner evenings weren’t as often as anyone would
have liked.

The program needs some improvements. My suggestions:

Advertising. This season, aside from the UT-C game, the only games adequately advertised were the Charlotte games, mainly because the
ticket office posted pick-up dates throughout Chambers. The cheerleaders or someone should spray paint a sheet advertising each game and
hang it on Eu Hall a day or two in advance. Perhaps even the basketball office could mail a schedule
card to each student. Such notice would doubtlessly increase student attendance at home games, and “The Box” could live up
to its reputation.

TV. I don’t know why the Southern Conference, which can least afford to sit on its can while the ACC
rakes in truckloads of money on television contracts, continues to let the rest of the basketball world go shooting by
monetarily. Davidson ought to have three or four of its games broadcast in Charlotte, and the SC should work out
some sort of cable TV contract. The Conference is showing signs of improvement (three 20-game winners, two teams in postseason
tourneys, and one team ranked in both polls), but they will wither on the vine without television contracts to increase
revenue and audience.

As for next year? The Cats will be very young. The nearly unstoppable Kenny Wilson will be back and better
than ever; Wilson will challenge Chattanooga’s Willie White and Furman’s George Singleton for Player of the Year honors. Tom Franz
will be back to provide a steadying hand on the offense. The freshmen (sophomores) are going to surprise people. Jim
McConkey made the SC All-Freshman team. Rafael Hernandez showed glimmers of what he can be. Gerry Born played well. Ken
Niehbuhr surprised people with his strong, aggressive play. Ted Wolfe and Bill Pollock will be very good players. And if
Pepper Bego works hard and actualizes his potential, Davidson will surprise an awful lot of people.

So, until Midnight Madness . . .
