Spencer Presided Over a Period of Transition

By DAVID RESNIK ’85

Davidsonian: What are the most important changes that have happened to Davidson since you’ve been here?

Spencer: They probably stretch back well beyond the fifteen years I’ve been here. Most things like that have a beginning that goes back a long time, and it’s a pretty cosmic question. I have to stop and think a minute as to how to organize it. In terms of character of the place and student body, I think the most obvious change is co-education. And that is, without a doubt, within my mind, one of the best things Davidson College ever did, when it decided to admit women students. Another highly significant change of the same kind of general magnitude was already underway when I got here, and that’s what I mean when I say these things had an early history, and that is the integration of the College and the acceptance of minority students. The College had first taken African students and then it had declared itself open to minority students, minority American students, in the late sixties, or middle sixties it was. Then, I think, most traditionally predominantly white colleges, like Davidson, had a completely false conception of what would happen when they genuinely opened their doors to minority students. I think that a lot of people thought—most of us thought—that minority students would then flock in, because the door was now open. Obviously, that didn’t happen. And it has taken us a long time to build the group of minority students even up to four or five percent of the student body. In fact, we’re not up to that point quite yet; we’re about four percent, and that is, as you know, far below the total minority population by percentage of the population.

In terms of curriculum, again, something that went back into the mid-sixties was the so-called “Blue Sky Curriculum,” which was a radical change in many ways from the old one we had had. Much more freedom, much more flexibility, than we had had before, and things like the beginning of the Humanities program, the beginning of the Junior Year Abroad programs, both of which came into being about that time, during the early to middle sixties, and which have been built upon during the last ten to fifteen years or so. I think the success of the Humanities program is obvious. There are a lot of college curriculum changes that are brought in with great fanfare and then later they’re gone. Well, that’s not true of the Humanities program. It certainly has survived and continued to flourish, even though I think it also has to be rethought from time to time, and we're sort of in that process right now.

In later curriculum changes, the obvious introduction of the computer, not so much in curriculum yet, but in terms of the use of the computer in the educational program, which we did not have, of course, until very recently. And of course the kind of changes in the program that the Sloan Grant is going to bring about, things that we’re just on the threshold of right now. The “Blue Sky” curriculum also included the creation of what is now the Center for Special Studies. It has gone through quite a metamorphosis over the period of years, because it began as what was called the Honors College, and then it was called the Honors Center, and finally it has gotten to the Center for Special Studies. It has changed a little bit in character over those years.

In terms of the non-academic, non-student areas, like finance, for example. Our trustees, for a long, long time, have insisted upon a conservative fiscal policy, operating under a balanced budget. And fortunately we’ve been able to continue that, which means that we have no debt of any kind. And that’s totally unusual in American colleges today. I’d say the vast majority of small colleges have at least some kind of bonded indebtedness for dormitories and that sort of thing. The fact that we have no debt is a very healthy kind of situation because it means that you don’t have to pay out money in debt service all the time, and with the steep rise in interest rates of the recent past, a lot of institutions were having to take out a tremendous amount of the money they took in just to pay for the debt service, financing those debts. The other factor in the financial area would be the continued growth of the endowment, of the permanent endowment, which has now hit the 30 million mark in book value or what is called carrying value.The market value goes up and down, depending on the health of the stock market, but the book value has increased to $30 million. And that of course is important, because together with the corpus from which we get the income we get from the Duke Endowment, it means our effective endowment is up over $50 million. In terms of what might be considered “general reputation” of the College, I think that the admissions applications indicate that that too has seen steady growth, in that we once were a college primarily of the Carolinas then we became almost entirely regional. Now we have about 70 percent from the Southeast and 30 percent from outside, so it’s more of a national institution than it was in terms of its reputation with prospective students. And the same thing can be said with regard to foundations. We’ve had grants from a lot of national foundations in recent years, indicating that when they look across the country, and say, “What are the really good liberal arts colleges?”, Davidson has tended to be included in those lists. And I’m talking about foundations with which we have no natural connection through individuals or the church, or alumni.

What has changed the most since you’ve been here?
Well, the most striking change would be co-education.

What do you think will change most in the future?
I suspect the impact of technology will be the greatest change from what we’re doing right now. I think a liberally educated person in today’s world has got to be technologically literate.

In light of their approval of a “sliding scale” for admissions last year, do you think the Trustees are moving toward sex-blind or equal access admissions?
Not at this point, no. I think that what they were saying was that “we’re not rigid, we’re not inflexible,” but at this point we don’t favor a sex-blind policy.

By ROXANNA GUILFORD ’85

In October, 1968, Samuel R. Spencer Jr. began his presidency at Davidson by exhorting students to “give a damn.” During the following 15 years, Dr. Spencer followed his own advice. Since 1968, the endowment has grown from $13.8 million to $30 million. Enrollment has increased from 1000 students to 1350. More significantly, this now includes women and blacks. During Spencer’s presidency, four new buildings were added to the campus: the E.H. Little Library, Vail Commons, Mary Irwin Belk dorm, and Peter Knox dorm. In addition, the old library became the Grey College Union and the Martin Chemistry building got a $1 million facelift.

Minority recruitment has increased since 1968; and self-selection has become a way of life for on-campus fraternities and houses. Professors no longer need to profess “Christian commitment” to receive tenure. International (especially nonwestern) studies were increasingly emphasized. Exams are now self-scheduled; and ROTC is no longer mandatory. Such are the changes brought about at the College during the administration of Sam Spencer. A mere listing of his deeds, however, is insufficient. To understand fully the patterns of change and the ensuing advantages, disadvantages, and impacts, one should view the events in context, starting in 1968 and working up to the present.

1968-69
Samuel R. Spencer Jr. was installed as president on Oct. 11, 1968. In an interview in the Sept. 27 Davidsonian, he listed what he considered to be key issues and concerns of his administration: the admissions policy, the honors college, and renovation of dorms. In November, he added another concern to his list: coeducation. While he did not immediately throw his full support behind the change, he was “sympathetic to the idea of coeducation.” He also gave priority to placing blacks in faculty and staff positions, according to the Charlotte Observer. In the early part of 1969, the long-term controversy of compulsory ROTC came to prominence. In an April 4 Davidsonian, Spencer came out in favor of a ROTC requirement. Within two weeks, he supported a proposal to make it voluntary.

1969-70
The following academic year began with a study of various areas of college life. Dr. Spencer commissioned reports on five topics: social patterns, church relations, athletics, coeducation, and extra-campus responsibilities. Aside from the admission of women, one of the most significant results of the study was the implementation of self-selection in 1970. Almost as volatile as self-selection was the issue of open dorms. In March 1970, the Residence Hall Committee advocated giving each dorm the right to set its own curfew, with the option of remaining open 24 hours. Dr. Spencer opposed this move, “I just don’t approve of the idea of girls [sic] staying overnight in the Spenc