4 Friday, April 29, 1982 / The Davidsonian

Student Petition

(Continued from page 1)

selection for eating clubs, and allowing each house to choose which system it will operate under.

PCSC chairman Warren Gould said he still plans to continue the phone survey his committee started last week. Gould went ahead with the survey even though the SGA Senate voted the proposal down because, “we felt a poll would be more scientific and accurate.” Gould also said it was “my prerogative as committee chairman” to do the poll.

The results of both the poll and the referendum should be ready by the Senate meeting this Tuesday. The next step for any proposal is to the Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL). From there any proposal would go to College President Samuel Spencer and through him to the Board of Trustees. Spencer would

Town Day

(Continued from page 1)

lowing the parade. If three members of a family enter races, the family will be eligible for a drawing to win a free family membership. For more information about the YMCA races and prizes, call 892-1761.

Anyone can participate in Town Day. If you are interested in helping out, contact the Y-Corps. All groups and individuals involved in Town Day will meet on Tuesday, May 3, at 10 p.m. in the Big Screen Room at the Union.

ATTENTION

not speculate how the Trustees or the next President would receive a request for change in the self-selection system. In his Convocation speech last week, Spencer firmly supported the goals of self-selection. “The compromise being discussed — the so-called two-tier system in which some groups have formal bidding and some do not — in my view is merely a stepping stone toward the old system. I am convinced... that this campus cannot exist half-exclusive and half non-exclusive,” Spencer said.

“The college administration should have been more watchful in seeing that we did not drift back toward the exclusivism we had abandoned. The growing exclusivism of the fraternities is steadily undermining the non-exclusive Patterson Court houses, and the system which began with a pattern of equality on Patterson Court is now very unequal indeed,” Spencer added.

Dean of Students Will Terry said that he knew of no plans to tighten enforcement of the rules or spirit of self-selection. “We need to take the fruits of the [SGA] study and decide as a community — including students, faculty, and administration — and decide what we want the College social life to be like,” Terry said. “I would hate to ever see the fraternities as dominant as they were in the 50’s and early 60’s,” he added.

Terry said he felt the system worked well up to about two years ago. “It kept the fraternities more open, but first totally broke down this year,” he said attributing the trouble to a lack of willingness on the part of freshmen to complain, and possibly a change in the tenor of the campus. “When you're involving a system of rules and regulations and students aren't willing to enforce them, it’s not going to work,” he said.

Frontis Johnston

(Continued from page 1)

Chairman of the Board of Trustees Fred Stair feels that Johnston will perform his duties “excellently,” because his previous experience as Interim President makes him uniquely qualified for the job.

Johnston has written articles and book reviews for The North Carolina Historical Review, The Journal of Southern History, and The American Historical Review. He edited Volume I of The Papers of Zebulon B. Vance. He specializes in United States history.

Johnston married Lucy Martin Currie in 1936. She died of cancer in 1980. He has three children: Letitia Dabney (Mrs. Lawrence Kimbrough), who lives in

PREMED MAJORS

NEED FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE?

The Air Force needs doctors. So, we may help finance your college education with an Air Force ROTC scholarship.

We have three and two-year AFROTC PreHealth Professions Scholarships for qualified applicants. These scholarships pay full tuition, lab and incidental fees, books, plus $100 a month (tax free) during the school year. Upon completion of Air Force ROTC and baccalaureate degree requirements, you'll be commissioned as an Air Force second lieutenant. When accepted to medical school, additional assistance for medical school expenses is guaranteed with an Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship.

Get together with an Air Force ROTC representative and discuss these two programs. It may be the most important talk you've ever had about your future.

Contact Capt. Paul Chambers at UNCC, Calvard 3059 (704) 597-4537

ROTC

Gateway to a great way of life.

Davidson and works for the Dean of Students Office; Martha Elizabeth (Mrs. Mark McDonald), who is an attorney in Greensboro; and Archibald Curry Johnston, who lives in Memphis, Tennessee and is the Director of the Tennessee Earthquake Information Center. Johnston has two grandchildren.

SUNDAY — MAY 9th

WITH JUST THE RIGHT CARD OF QFE