2 Friday the 13th/The Davidphonian

Spencer Solves College’s Problems; Prepares for Retirement

After a closed meeting Wednesday night with chosen members of the faculty and administration, College President Samuel Spencer announced that
all the problems of Davidson College have been solved. “We came up with the solution about 9:15 p.m. There are
a few bugs to be worked out yet, but essentially athletics, admissions policy, and Patterson Court are no longer problems,”
Spencer said.

Spencer concentrated on these and other issues in his Spring commencement address, but until this week had not indicated that
he would do anything about them. “I just wanted to clear everything up before I left,” he said.

Interim President Frontis W. Johnston said he was pleased with Spencer’s solutions. “This is great. I’m glad to hear that
the problems have been solved. Problems are difficult things, you know,” he said.

Gargoyle Acquisition To Enhance Campus Beauty

Director of Physical Plant and Facilities Planning Grover C. Meetze, Jr. announced Tuesday that Davidson College has just finalized the
purchase of 144 gargoyles, to be installed this summer on buildings throughout the campus. The gargoyles are being sold to
the campus at a special reduced rate by Davidson alumnus Hugh Gowe’s (’57) cousin Chauncy Modo, President of American Cathedral
Builders Limited, Durham, NC.

Meetze said that the College had originally intended to get only four gargoyles for the steeple of Davidson College Presbyterian
Church until he learned that Modo’s firm had a gargoyle surplus and would sell them all to Davidson at a
fraction of their retail value. “We decided to go for the whole gross,” he said. “Besides, we get enough rain
here.”

Meetze said he did not foresee the necessity of removing any more roads from the campus for this project, but
mentioned that a few ground-level drainage troughs might be necessary and that there are still plenty of red bricks around
for that. The purchase was made through the Davidson College Trivial Things Endowment.

Food Lion Re-re-named

Food Lion, Inc., the supermarket chain which recently changed its name from “Food Town,” announced this week plans to change
its name again, this time to “Food Slug, Inc.” The change was made in response to charges of false advertising
by the Federal Food and Ethics Council of the Southeast stemming from complaints by local competitors that Food Lion does
not offer “the lowest food prices,” contrary to its advertising claims.

Food Slug’s new motto will be “the slowest food prices in the southeast,” according to Public Relations Manager Ken Cheatham.
“Customers will be encouraged to take their time shopping for bargains in our stores,” he said. New bumper stickers will
be out by June 1, Cheatham said.

“Sophisticated Comrades!” to Open This Fall

Professor Rupert Barber disclosed yesterday that the Drama Department has chosen the play for its fall 1983 major production. “Sophisticated
Comrades!” by Zsizsi Zchushtakovitch Maratilyovna is the first musical by a black female Jewish Hungarian dissident ever to be attempted
by the Drama Department at Davidson College. The 1921 farce, set in a Soviet lettuce-packing plant soon after the Russian
Revolution, revolves around a young Shakespearean theater critic who goes insane and tries to kill himself, but gets better.

Asked if the choice was problematic because the play resembles in some ways the last two major theater productions, Barber
explained, “What we're going for here is quality and consistency, but mostly consistency.” Barber said that Roy Fuller, Eric Fichtner,
Joyce Robinson, Doug Vass, Laura Singleton...

Bronze Bells Ding-a-Ling At DCPC

Four tuned bronze bells, a memorial gift of Dr. Charles Hattauer of New York City, were installed Monday in the
steeple of Davidson College Presbyterian Church. They will peal for the first time at the close of this spring’s commencement
ceremony.

DCPC minister Rev. Charles Raynal disclosed that the tune the bells will ring has not yet been decided. “It’s very
difficult to say. At UNCC they have a carillon that plays everything from the alma mater to Broadway show tunes.
But we only have four bells. That sort of limits us to ‘Mary Had a Little Lamb’ or something by
the B-52’s.”

Minister of Music Maryjane Cain noted that the tune is really of secondary importance to most people. “When the first
bong hits the air, and the students are out on the grass looking high unto the steeple, every joint in
my body will tingle,” she said.

Wyoming Radiation Hinders Normal Achievement

(CPS) — An Environmental Protection Agency survey of several irradiated counties in Wyoming has revealed that nuclear fallout from atomic...Bomb
testing caused a drastic decline in Scholastic Aptitude Test scores. The survey showed that students living in the contaminated counties
consistently scored 500 points lower on their SATs. Irradiated students scored an average combined SAT score of 420 (210 math,
210 verbal), while the average SAT score for a normal Wyoming student is 430 (215 math, 215 verbal). Survey Director
Oscar Myer said that “these irradiated students have really suffered. They have trouble tying their shoes, chewing bubble gum and
walking at the same time, and pronouncing the word timber.” According to Myer, no one really thought there was a
problem until the survey came out because “lots of Wyomingians have these problems.” Myer said that the students can still
be productive members of a community, however. He noted that many of them were straight-A students, attended church regularly, and
played on athletic teams. “These people are stupid, there’s no doubt about that,” said Myer, “but they work hard and
still do well.” Wyoming Educator Larry Waters said that contaminated students may be dumber than their peers, but added, “that’s
okay.” “Maybe we need some dumb people to go along with what we say,” stated Waters, “after all, for someone
to be smart, someone must be dumb. Maybe this is the best way to solve our educational problems.”

Davidson Gets New Minister

During the depression, a young Presbyterian preacher, just out of seminary, was assigned to a rural North Carolina parish. Neither
the parishioners nor the Church could afford to provide him with a car. However, he was given an old bicycle
on which to do his visiting and ministering. On his first afternoon of rounds through the county, he met the
Baptist preacher, also on a bicycle. They chatted a moment about the weather, and about their respective congregations. This continued
for about a month; every time they met they made a bit of small talk and then went their separate
ways. One day, however, the Baptist preacher met the Presbyterian minister, and the Presbyterian was walking.

“What happened to your bike, brother?” asked the Baptist preacher.

“I think someone stole it,” the Presbyterian told him.

“Well, I'll tell you how to get it back,” the preacher said. “That happened to me once, and on the
very next Sunday, I preached them Ten Commandments. And when I got to, ‘thou shall not steal,’ I shouted it
into the rafters and told them exactly what would happen if they did. You do that this Sunday, and by
Monday you’ll have your bike back.”

The next Monday, the two parsons met, and oddly enough, the Presbyterian was riding his bike.

“You see,” said the Baptist, “the Ten Commandments and ‘thou shall not steal.’ Gets ’em every time. You just preach
them Ten Commandments.”

“Well, I did preach the Ten Commandments,” said the Presbyterian. “But when I got to, ‘thou shall not commit adultery,’
I remembered where I left it.”

NEWS SUMMARY

The Davidphonian is published spasmodically by crazy middle-class spendthrift kids. Offices located in the mall next to the skating rink,
for sure. Subscriptions cost a comprehensive $8,200/year. Advertising rates cost as much as two tickets to Bermuda. Postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036.

Karen Carpenter, Editor
Elvis Presley, News Editor

News Staff: James Arness, Assistant News Editor; Ken Hagen, Dennis Weaver, Milburn Stone, and Amanda Blake as Miss Kitty

Features Staff: Gore Vidal, James Michener, Peter Benchley, John Le Carre, Barbara Cartland, Tom Wolfe, Anthony Abbott, Kurt Vonnegut, and
Gill Holland

Sports Staff: the Steve Soud Experience

Photography Staff: Hugh Hefner, Bob Guccione, Larry Flint, David Chan, Richard Avedon

Business Staff: Robert Vesco, Bert Lance, Richard Allen, John Jenrette, and Catherine McMillan have agreed not to graduate until next
winter term so they can do the play. John Marks, ’85, has also agreed to defer Germany until winter term
in order to star in the production. Barber is currently discussing the hit musical score with music professor Dr. Vladimir
Morosan.

Jim Morrison, Executive Editor
Buddy Holly, Features Editor
Jimi Hendrix, Opinions Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Sid Vicious, Photography Editor
Bobby Darrin, Advertising Manager

Production: Ringling Bros., Barnum and Bailey, Pete Buck, Mike Mills, Bill Perry, Michael Stipe

Disinterested Bystanders: Thurston Hatcher, Ross Holt, John Krotchko, Anne Lambert, Eric Long, Jeff Mann, Ann Meador, Jim Morgan, Matt Morris,
John Munson, David Resnik, Anderson Scott

R.U.M.: Tom Pafford, Brian Butler, Stewart Cauley, and Dave Resnik as the Beav

Keith Moon, Associate Editor
John Lennon, Managing Editor
Bing Crosby, Business Manager
