Davidson Boonies?

To the Editor:

In the last Davidsonian issue, Leland Park wrote an article titled “The Once and Future Davidson.” Dr. Park feared that the possible influx of 900 homes would ruin Davidson’s sense of community. The closeness of the citizens and the personable qualities of day-to-day affairs would become a thing of the past. Dr. Park’s fears are well-founded coming from the viewpoint of a townie, but he missed one very important point. The town of Davidson, its financial health, its name, and most of the citizens are dependent on the College. Without the students, this town would simply not survive. Any argument concerning the growth of Davidson must include the views of the students.

Dr. Park asks, “What kind of Davidson do you expect to find or want to find when you come back for your twentieth reunion in the year 2000 A.D.?” Well, for future students, I would like for them to find a town which has much more to offer than it does now. Much of one’s college experience depends on the activities outside of the classroom. With the exception of Peregrine House and Giorgio’s, there is no place for the students to go. No pubs, no movie theaters, none of the establishments usually found in a diverse, healthy town. One has to drive twenty miles to Charlotte to see a band, movie, or find a good place to eat. On a typical Saturday night, one can barely tell this is a college town. Not many students can be found strolling down Main Street or “hitting the town.” The increased population caused by 900 homes would probably create a bigger town, encouraging more business.

My parents want to retire in Davidson. I tell them that they couldn’t have picked a better place. A perfect environment for the old: quiet, peaceful, and relatively crime-free. Great that is, if you’re sixty years old, but from the view of a restless adventurous youth, this place is simply a dud. When my friends ask me where I go to school, I reply, “Oh, in a small town near Charlotte, in the boonies.”

Dr. Park wants to keep the town as it is: small, warm, and cozy. Growth, he implies, would ruin the uniqueness of the town. We are not living in 1890, but 1983. If this town were to remain exactly the way it is for another 20 years, it would be a museum of ancient history. The town definitely does not prepare the majority of Davidson’s students for the real world. We can’t live in a fairy tale forever.

Dr. Park, do you realize that by supporting the existing structure of the town, you support a town racially divided by railroad tracks? The comfortable live on one side in $80,000 homes while the others less well off live in shanties on the other. Surely, the black population of Davidson would benefit from increased revenue in a larger town. Dr. Park, I welcome any development and growth with outstretched arms. Why don’t we make the town more representative of how the rest of America lives?

Eric Long ’83

Shameful Attack

To the Editor,

We are both offended and appalled by the lack of taste displayed by a group of students at the Notre Dame basketball game last Tuesday. Their sign, which read “Starve the Irish! Cats and Bobby Sands No. 1,” shamefully attacks the heroic effort of this noble man. It also defiles an ideal that we as Americans once held dear — the willingness to fight and die for our country. Sadly, this callousness and disrespect typifies our generation. Can we as responsible students and citizens of the world sit idly by without comment at such a display as this? Can such contemptible behavior be allowed to flourish unbridled? We say no!

We feel that we speak for the majority of Davidson students as we express our disgust. We call upon the perpetrators of this heinous action to step forth and atone for their deeds. We demand an apology. As Gandhi may have once said, “Hunger is not funny.”

Hal Elliott ’85
Carl Elliott ’83
Gray Hampton ’83
Ed Whitesides ’83

Celebrate Women

(Continued from p. 1)

“Our biggest problem is being taken seriously,” Laughlin noted. Some students instinctively ridicule the concept of a women’s committee. “It’s hard to know how to react to that — do you laugh it off or bare your claws? We’ve come a long way, though, in convincing people we are serious.”

After a decade of coeducation, Davidson women “know what the issues are that we have to face,” Laughlin said. “We are unifying ourselves to confront them — particularly the ERA and equal access admissions.”

Local women students first attended Davidson classes briefly during the Depression, when families could not afford to send daughters to women’s colleges. Among those who attended was Giddy Dyer, who later sponsored the ERA in the Illinois state legislature."could sit in on classes but could not speak," Dyer told an Open Luncheon audience this fall. "None of us minded that — we considered it an honor to be here," she explained. "That was before my consciousness was raised." Eleven women, ten of them from Mary Baldwin College in Virginia, came to Davidson as exchange students in 1971-72. Monday night’s speaker Jennet Robinson and Associate Dean of Admissions Gardner Roller were among them. The women lived in Grey House and participated actively in campus life, forming an IMAC swim team, managing the soccer team, and starring in campus drama productions.

Following years of discussion concerning coeducation, the Board of Trustees unanimously approved a coeducation plan in May 1972. Davidson became officially coed the next fall. According to Gardner Roller, "there’s been enormous, fairly steady growth... in serious efforts to integrate women into campus life" since 1972. "Attitudes are drastically improved. Faculty do not blatantly and aggressively attack women in the classroom as some did back then." "Next week’s concentration of events is a first," Roller added.

Women now comprise approximately one-third of the student body. They are admitted on the basis of a "floating" ratio set by the Trustees at 66-60 percent men to 33-40 percent women. Rusk House, the first all-women eating house, was founded in 1977. A second women’s eating house, Warner Hall, began operations this fall. Davidson now has five women’s intercollegiate athletics teams. The Women’s Center, a residential and social house for women, occupied Kimmel House during the 81-82 school year. The Center concept was scrapped in favor of a Union Committee last spring.

Next week’s events highlight women who have taken charge of their lives in assertive and imaginative ways. Wednesday night’s hunger dinner and film will honor Mother Teresa, whose work on behalf of India’s poor has made her a worldwide symbol of compassion and service. Dr. Sonia Johnson rejected the values of a Mormon upbringing to become a leader in the women’s movement. "I’m obsessed by the desire for justice for women... All our founding fathers were immoderate men, obsessed with the idea of justice and willing to risk everything for it," she writes.

Ruth Moose began her literary career by enrolling in a writing course when her second son entered kindergarten. Her first published work earned her $5. "If anyone ever noticed I had talent (when I was growing up) they never mentioned it to me," Moose said in a Charlotte News interview in 1972. Now Moose has published her work in periodicals such as Redbook and The Atlantic Monthly. Moose’s poetry and fiction reveal a gallery of fascinating women. The subject of "Tintype" is a corseted 19th-century victim. The pungent coming-of-age sketch "A Biography in Seven Lives" describes a woman’s maturing and liberation. And in her recent "The Summer Kitchens" Moose creates a portrait of a modern woman balancing independence and dependence.

Although she grew up in a "male-dominated Southern society," Jennet Robinson said she was always achievement-oriented. "But it wasn’t until I started working that I realized how hard it was for women in the workplace." Now Robinson is deputy to South Carolina Lieutenant Governor Nancy Stevenson, a woman "with a lot of power and energy."

Smith Retires
(Continued from p. 1)

The Union Director’s primary duty, he feels, is to "watch other people work." Smith is officially in charge of supervising student activities, but does more "encouraging than supervising." According to Smith, the job of Union Director has grown over the last 30 years. "Before I came here," he says, "the College had not had this position." In years past, Union activities included "movies, and innocent social gatherings," he says, but now the program is "broadened, more complicated, with more off-campus and co-curricular events."

Smith explains that students are the main force behind the Union’s progress. He notes that "half our money now goes to co-curricular things that, until eight years ago the faculty and staff ran." The Artists Series, the Speakers Committee, and Fine Films are some areas where student involvement has made a "tremendous difference," he says.

Smith graduated from Davidson with a degree in Education in 1938 after transferring from the Oak Ridge Military School, a junior college. He roomed with President Spencer during his matriculation, and now that he will retire in June, he declares that "Sam Spencer is not going to beat me out of here." After College he left the country "to win the war" and traveled throughout Europe. Smith completed his education with an M.A. in English at UNC-Chapel Hill. He came back to Davidson after teaching English at Oak Ridge Military School for a year. Before he became Union Director in 1952, Smith was the Y-MCA secretary for three years, a position he describes as being "the closest thing to Chaplain" at that time.