8 Friday, September 16, 1983 / The Davidsonian

FEATURES

Hans Lenk: The Responsibility Of Technology

By NANCY ROSSELOT

Responding to the challenge that philosophy has been rendered useless in our technological world, visiting speaker Hans Lenk outlined in
a 900 Room talk Monday night the ethical issues inherent in technological development and progress.

Lenk, professor of philosophy at the University of Karlsruhe in West Germany, spoke on “Toward a Pragmatic Social Philosophy of
Technology: An Aspect of Technological Ethics.” Citing the growth of technology as the decisive factor in this inquiry, Lenk mentioned
such areas as man’s newly acquired ability to change himself by genetics, responsibility to unborn generations, and progressive technocracy (technology
as used in bureaucracy).

Lenk described the technological imperative as “Can implies ought,” a reversal of Kant’s categorical imperative, “Ought implies can.”

Lenk outlined various changes needed in technological ethics. Our society must move from a causal to a preventive view of
technology, with extended responsibility for the future. Moreover, emphasis must be shifted from individual to collective responsibility for actions.

Concluding that ethical thinking must be changed in a pragmatic way, Lenk cited twelve theses of a philosophy of technology.
Among these were that power and knowledge create obligations, that can does not necessarily imply ought, and that philosophers ought
to foster moral consciousness. As an expedient to this latter point, Lenk suggested that ethics ought to be required as
a subject in school.

Lenk pointed out that in assuming a new view of technology with extended responsibility, moral man achieves a special dignity.
“He who has more obligations has more rights,” Lenk said.

In addition to his work in the philosophy of technology, Lenk has studied mathematical logic and most recently the philosophy
of sport. The author of over 300 articles and 20 books, Lenk received a prize in 1979 for a work
published in English in the United States. Lenk is awaiting confirmation of his election to the UNESCO committee of West
Germany.

Lenk distinguished himself as an athlete in the 1960 Olympic Games when he won a gold medal in crew. He
has also been a European rowing champion and the coach of a successful crew team.

Lenk traveled to Davidson after attending the New York Colloquium on Philosophy and Technology in early September where he read
a paper entitled “What Are the Social Implications of Computers?” Philosophy Dr. Earl MacCormac introduced the conference.

By JOHN EGLIN

With scores of rave reviews and an Oscar to its credit, Sophie’s Choice has come to Davidson as a Pop
Film. It can be seen in Love Auditorium on Friday evening, September 16, at 8:00 and 10:30.

Sophie’s Choice is the acclaimed film version of William Styron’s novel of the same name. The film revolves around the
relationship of three neighbors in a boarding house in postwar Brooklyn.

Stingo (Peter MacNicol), a young southern writer, comes to New York in the late forties to sell his work. His
“work” is southern fiction in the worst tradition: flowery first-person slush about comings-of-age and losses of innocence.

Stingo finds himself living in a Brooklyn boarding house nicknamed the “Pink Palace” for its striking color. There he meets
Sophie, a Polish refugee (Meryl Streep), and Nathan, Sophie’s mentally unbalanced lover (Kevin Kline). Nathan is a witty, charming, and
amusing character when he is not making irrational accusations against Sophie.

When Stingo observes the pair together, he witnesses Sophie’s unyielding devotion for Nathan. When eventually Sophie confides in Stingo, she
reveals to him details of her past. These flashbacks are the most engrossing parts of the film, depicting Sophie’s first
months in the United States, her first meeting with Nathan, and her life in Nazi-occupied Poland, leading up to the
revelation of the terrible secret which torments Sophie and explains her willingness to endure Nathan’s instability.

The best performance by far is Meryl Streep’s. For the role of Sophie, she cultivated a very convincing eastern European
accent. Since portions of the film are in Polish and German, Streep had to be conversant with both languages. Streep
won Best Actress for Sophie’s Choice last year, an honor she thoroughly deserved.

Kevin Kline is especially strong as Nathan, a role which required him to seem alternately engaging and menacing, comical and
vindictive. Peter MacNicol, however, is less impressive as Stingo. His character is a caricature of John Boy Walton and Kudzu
Dubose. He serves as an adequate foil, but we are unable to take him seriously as a character. He celebrates
the loss of his virginity in a torrent of dime-novel verbosity which would make John Boy wince.

A host of other memorable characters supplement the trio around which the film centers, including the proprietors of the Pink
Palace, who are bit players out of a Philip Roth novel. Equally unforgettable is the raven-haired admirer of D.H. Lawrence
with whom Stingo attempts a tryst.
