Friday, October 28, 1983 / The Davidsonian

9

—Music

Burdon Recreates Animal Magnetism

By STEPHEN MANK

Usually when a band tries to put together a comeback, they end up embarrassing everyone including themselves. Witness Three Dog Night, Steppenwolf, and the Troggs. Legends that used to have no trouble filling stadiums are now killing themselves just to fill clubs.

Eric Burdon was a legend. He and the Animals brought to middle America old-time blues with a heavy guitar twist. Songs like “House of the Rising Sun,” and “We Gotta Get Outa This Place,” are still played today. But some time in the seventies, folks decided they didn’t like the Animals anymore, so the Animals fell apart.

Now Burdon has begun a great undertaking. He’s gathered the boys back together, given them a slick new image, gotten them on the real hip I.R.S. label, written some tasty new songs for them, and tried to fall back into the public’s good graces.

The album, Ark, is actually very good. The musicianship is the best the Animals have ever mustered up. The songs are also far more intelligent. In addition, Burdon’s vocals are what they should have been long ago: crisp and smooth with a razor-sharp edge.

The single off the album, “The Night,” is an excellent song. The Animals have almost entirely abandoned their old style in favor of a bouncier, more meaningful one. Many fans will object, but the Animals have realized — as well they should have — that they cannot rest on their laurels interminably and expect to sell albums. Everyone has to sell out a little bit.

The Animals do, however, manage to sneak in a few blues songs as a kind of acknowledgment of their roots. “Hard Times,” as the title might imply, is a wonderful ode to not having enough. It is just a plain, old-fashioned, fun song to listen to. Elsewhere on the album Burdon and the boys assume an upbeat genre that is very new yet very Animals. “My Favorite Enemy,” is clever, with all the elements of a fantastic song.

The Animals really want this album to be a success. There’s a lot of blood, sweat, and tears (so to speak) in this and sometimes it hurts them. In an effort to please everyone they put “Love is for all Time” on the L.P. It is a very good imitation of Bob Marley, but most people buy Animal albums in hopes of getting more than reggae copies.

The most frightening reality about the album, though, is the group photo on the back cover. Their sober, wrinkled visages are not the brash, go-to-Hell faces that won us over. Rather, they are the faces of men pleading for a second chance.

This album is not as good as some of their old ones were — they may not be able to ever recapture the recognition they once knew. But beware: they do a damned good job trying.

Quick Pan: There’s a very cruel man riding a Harley Davidson somewhere in Indiana that thinks the American people will buy vacuous noise. He thinks that adding a last name like Mellencamp to an already silly name like John Cougar will give credibility to his music. He thinks that the general public can’t wait to listen to lyrics like “so you went to a party at Jacqueline Onassis, If you’re so smart why don’t you wear glasses.” He thinks that people would actually buy an album called Uh-huh. But you know better than that — don’t you?

Classifieds

LOST: Desperately want return of Off-White Ceramic Beer Mug, 1952 Davidson College — Inscribed “Harold.” $30 Reward — No Questions Asked. Call 892-6297.

FINE FILMS PRESENTS: WINNER OF THE 1976 CANNES FILM FESTIVAL

Who will survive and what will be left of them?

DATA COLLECTORS NEEDED: 5/8 hours per week at $4.31/hr. Early morning hours involved. Call Jorgia at -6741 or Sharon at -6290.

LOST: Gold ring with hieroglyphics, Blue book bag, pocketbook — blue and brown, two TI-35 calculators.

FOR SALE: 1952 Dodge Pick Up Truck — good condition, brand new battery, $500. 892-6547.

FOUND: Pocket watch and key, Porsche sunglasses, 7 sets of keys, lion key ring, add-a-bead necklace, earrings, brown glass case, 3 pairs of sunglasses, silver cross pen, zebra mechanical pencil, 2 TI-30 calculators, pocket camera, yellow raincoat.

— Pick up your items before exam week, they will not be here after exams.

DEEDED WATERFRONT PROPERTY: Open house Sat./Sun. Oct. 15/16. Large 2 bedroom mobile home, total electric porch, mud room, fenced area, utility shed, pier, rip-rap. Call Evva McKinley, 704-663-1759, weekends and after 6:00 p.m. on weekdays. No realtors. 210 feet on water.

KING OF PIZZA

663-3030 225 S. Broad St. Mooresville

FAMILY NIGHT

Every Monday Night 5 To 10

PIZZA

BUY ONE PIZZA (ANY SIZE) GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE FREE

America’s most bizarre and brutal crimes!

What happened is true. Now the motion picture that's just as real.

THE TEXAS CHAIN SAW MASSACRE - Film by TOBE HOOPER Starring MARILYN BURNS and GUNNAR HANSEN as “Leatherface” - Story & Screenplay by KIM HENKEL and TOBE HOOPER Produced and Directed by TOBE HOOPER - COLOR - A BRYANSTON PICTURES RELEASE

A HORROR CLASSIC 8:00 LOVE AUDITORIUM HALLOWEEN NIGHT $1.50 OR PASS