The Davidsonian  
Friday, March 25, 1983

World Opinion Gives AI Strength  
By ELIZABETH KISS

“Human rights transcend the boundaries of nation, race, and belief; so does the international responsibility for protecting those rights. The pressure of world public opinion, expressed in concerted actions of ordinary people from all around the world, must be brought to bear if this principle is to be universally respected.”  
~Amnesty International Report 1982

Amnesty International’s goal is both modest and extravagantly ambitious. On the one hand, A.I. wants to free Hanna Mykhaylenko. Since Hanna is only one of thousands of innocent people imprisoned around the world, this seems a modest enough goal. On the other hand, A.I. wants to make the planet a place fit for human habitation, a rather more ambitious goal. Impossible? Perhaps. Each prisoner’s release is only one infinitesimal step. But for that one prisoner, the step has infinite dimensions.

This is Human Rights Awareness Month at Davidson. One of Davidson A.I.’s goals in sponsoring the month was to heighten campus awareness concerning the global dimensions of the human rights problem. No continent, ideology, or race holds a monopoly on human rights violations. Most ordinary people live in some fear of official brutality.

The map above shows the areas of the world addressed by Human Rights Awareness Month activities.

1-5: International Women’s Day  
Hanna Mykhaylenko and four others are among thousands of women prisoners of conscience (people who have neither used nor advocated violence) around the world. A.I. USA selected the five women to be subjects of letter-writing campaigns commemorating International Women’s Day. Hanna is a 45-year-old Ukrainian librarian arrested in 1980 for “anti-Soviet agitation.” She had lobbied to obtain Ukrainian reading materials for schoolchildren. In 1981, Hanna was committed to a psychiatric institute for an indefinite period. The other four women are from Chile, Ethiopia, South Africa, and Taiwan. On March 8, the Women’s Concerns Committee members joined A.I. in writing seventy letters on behalf of the five women.

6: Focus: Human Rights in Central America  
Regional turbulence has aggravated a long tradition of human rights violations in Central America. A.I. holds Salvadoran and Guatemalan authorities responsible for extensive violations of the human rights of unarmed civilians in all sectors of society. Because of its apolitical stance, A.I. takes no position on U.S. Central American policy. It did, however, challenge as inaccurate the State Department’s recent assessment of the Salvadoran government’s human rights record. Furthermore, A.I. has repeatedly requested assurances that U.S. military aid is not being used to perpetuate violence against noncombatant civilians.

7: Philippines Campaign  
A U.S. colony for half a century, the Philippines is still considered a model of third world democracy by many. According to A.I., Ferdinand Marcos’ government continues to wage a campaign of terror against nonviolent church workers and trade unionists. Persecution of church workers reached such intensity last summer that Archbishop Jaime Sin publicly called on President Marcos to resign. Davidson A.I. last week sponsored presentations on the Philippines by UNCC Geography Professor NormanSchul and Filipino National Dale Fallar organized a petition campaign.

8: Czechoslovakian Playwright Vaclav Havel is a Czech playwright arrested in 1979 for human rights monitoring activities. Havel’s health was so poor that he was transferred to a civilian hospital last month. But he will have to return to prison to serve the remainder of his four-year sentence as soon as his health permits. Havel is one of a large number of Czech intellectuals and artists who have been persecuted by authorities for their bold, outspoken criticism of oppressive policies. A.I. members wrote letters on Havel’s behalf last week.

9: Repression Grows in Zimbabwe Two members of ZAPU, the minority party within Prime Minister Robert Mugabe’s coalition government, were arrested on March 4. Sidney Malunga and Canaan Zinoti Moyo are being held without charge, and A.I. fears they will be subjected to torture. There have recently been an increasing number of human rights violations against ZAPU sympathizers by Mugabe’s government. A.I. members wrote letters urging that the two prisoners be granted immediate access to legal counsel or released.

10: The Death Penalty — Justice or Injustice? A.I. unconditionally opposes the death penalty. The United States, with over 1,000 inmates on death row, is one of the few Western nations which legalizes executions. North Carolina has 29 death row prisoners. A well-attended public debate on the death penalty on March 20 featured State Superior Court Judge Frank Snepp and jail chaplain Tony Clark-Sayer, Chairman of North Carolinians Against the Death Penalty. The heated question-and-answer session following the debate demonstrated that people on both sides are seriously concerned about this human rights issue so close to home for Americans.

11: Korea—A Missionary’s Perspective Dr. John Somerville, Presbyterian missionary and professor in Korea, did not plan on getting involved in human rights work in Korea. But what he saw there compelled him to make an active commitment. Reverend Somerville will speak at the Open Luncheon and lead an informal discussion on March 30.

12: Human Rights in the ’80s John Healey, Executive Director of Amnesty International U.S.A., will present the month’s keynote speech on Thursday, April 7. His topic will be “Human Rights in the ’80s.” Formerly Director of the Peace Corps in Lesotho and Deputy Director of Freedom from Hunger, Healey now heads 13,000 A.I. volunteers nationwide.

13: Apartheid Hits Home South Africa is unique for its open policy of racism. Julius Chambers, a prominent Black attorney from Charlotte, became personally acquainted with the injustice of apartheid. Chambers was detained by authorities during an official visit to South Africa with a delegation of Black lawyers and judges. Chambers will speak on South Africa on April 11.

14: Psychiatric Torture in the U.S.S.R. Hanna Mykhaylenko is only one of a large number of Soviet dissidents detained in psychiatric institutes. Routine treatment at such institutes includes the administration of powerful mind-altering drugs. In addition, inmates have even less legal recourse than they would in an ordinary prison. Davidson A.I. will sponsor an information/action campaign on Soviet use of psychiatric torture in late April.