Editor's note: Many statements contained in this article are direct quotations or paraphrases from statements contained in the Trustee By-Laws,
the College Constitution, the Faculty By-Laws, the SGA By-Laws, and the Honor Code and Code of Responsibility.

Most students who come to Davidson and many who have been here for several years have a limited understanding of
how the College operates. Most people are familiar with the responsibilities of the easily accessible administration officials such as the
Dean of Students, the Registrar, the Director of the Union, and the President, but few ever see or hear from
the most important controllers, the Trustees of Davidson College.

The Trustees
"The ownership, management and control of Davidson College are vested in the Trustees of the College." —Article 1.1, By-Laws of
the Trustees of Davidson College

All persons elected as Trustees must be active in the Christian church. Of the 40 trustees, 22 are elected by
the North Carolina Presbyteries, two by the Presbyteries of Everglades and Sewanee, eight by the Trustees, at least four of
whom shall be alumni, and eight by alumni. The Trustees are elected for a term of four years. Trustees who
serve three consecutive full four-year terms are not eligible for reelection until one year after the completion of the term.
No one shall serve as Trustee after his/her seventieth birthday.

Upon assuming office, all trustees must assent to the following convictions: they must accept the purpose of the College as
defined by the Preamble of the College Constitution; and they must agree to promote the purposes of the College and
increase its effectiveness for Christian learning.

The Trustees hold regular meetings in the fall and spring of each year. They hold meetings when called by the
Chairman or Executive Committee or when requested in writing by eight Trustees. These meetings often occur when the students are
away from school. (This year’s meetings will be Oct. 28-29, Feb. 23-24, and May 3-4.)

The Trustees transact business and elect new members during their regular meetings; a majority of the Trustees in office constitutes
a quorum for the transaction of business. The Vice Chairman of the Faculty pro tem and the President of the
SGA are invited to attend all meetings of the Trustees with the privileges of the floor but without the privilege
of voting.

The Trustees have an Executive Committee and several standing committees. The Executive Committee may exercise the authority of the Trustees
during intervals between meetings of the Trustees, subject to limitations required by Trustee Law.

The SGA may petition the Trustees for direct action in respect to any matter substantially affecting the fundamental interests of
the College 1) by a two-thirds vote of the entire Student Senate; or 2) by a majority of votes cast
in an official referendum of the student body.

The President
The President is the chief executive officer of the College and Chairman of the Faculty. He represents the College in
its relationship with alumni, other institutions, the media, and the government. He also organizes and directs administrative officers, and as
head of the faculty he is entitled to preside at its meetings. The President is also responsible for carrying out
the purposes of the College as defined in the Preamble of the Constitution of Davidson College.

The Preamble asserts that "Davidson is dedicated to the quest for truth and would set no limits to the adventures
of the mind," but the strongest claim made in the preamble, indeed its central claim, is more dogmatic: "Davidson recognizes
God as the source of all truth. As a College committed to the historic Christian faith, it sees Jesus Christ
as the central fact of history, giving purpose, order and value to the whole of life."

In order to ensure the proper enforcement of this Christian doctrine, the Trustee By-Laws require that the President be "a
loyal and active churchman, giving evidence by his life and the strength of his Christian faith and commitment. Such faith
and commitment will be appropriately expressed by his affiliation with the Presbyterian Church in the United States and his active
participation in the life of the College Church."

The Trustee By-Laws also stipulate that the President be "the official medium of communication between members of the Faculty, students,
administrative personnel, and the Trustees." The President meets with faculty members and usually has a weekly open office for students.
In addition, the President consults with nearly a dozen presidential advisory councils, composed of Faculty, administrators, and students concerning school
policy.

The Faculty
"The primary responsibility of the Faculty as a body is the planning and guidance of the educational program and policy
of the College." —Article II, Davidson College Faculty By-Lawsconsists of the President of the College, the Vice President for Academic
Affairs, the Dean of Students, the Director of the Library, the Registrar, and all persons holding the ranks of Professor,
Associate Professor, Assistant Professor, Instructor, or Lecturer. Davidson now has more than 100 faculty members. The faculty meets on the
first Tuesday afternoon of each month during the academic year, unless the first Tuesday precedes the opening of class in
the fall, succeeds the last day of class in the spring term, or occurs during a vacation period. Special meetings
may be called by the President, the Vice President for Academic Affairs, or upon request of one-tenth of the faculty
in residence. (Continued on page 12)

Play It Again, Humes
By ROSS HOLT

It was one of those nights, you know, one of those late summer evenings when the humidity hangs in the
air like the smell of stale perfume and cheap booze. I watched from my Belk window as the sun lay
dying in the western sky. Funny how it kept me from my assigned reading, like one of those cheap dames
on Trade Street in Charlotte. I had 658 more pages for tomorrow. It was for Humes.

I tuned myself back into the dorm room. Keith Moon was trying to pound through the wall from the stereo
next door, but I couldn’t let him in. Not in a million years. Across the hall, I could hear a
bunch of guys talking about some gal they all knew named Rosie. I'd have liked to have joined them. But
not that night. I had Humes to read.

Looking around, I decided I'd better leave. I stuffed the book into my pants pocket and went out into the
hall. The sounds of voices and stereos and flushing toilets all came together. It was like a dream. I stepped
outside into the heavy air. As the door closed behind me, a frisbee hit the brickwork above like a gunshot.
I caught it as it fell from the sky, and its owner moved in on me. I gave him the
disc.

“Thanks, pal,” he said.
“No problem, chum,” I told him.
“Wanna play?” He smiled when he said it.
“Sorry,” I said.

He just shrugged and rejoined his partner with the frisbee. I started the walk through the quad, then it dawned
on me. I had to go somewhere. I thought about the study rooms in Chambers. As quickly as I thought
it, I decided against it. Chambers is like a morgue at night. Even when there are people there, it’s like
a morgue.

I went to the library. The library. One of those libraries, you know, where the institutional green and the deafening
quiet combine to make an atmosphere that hangs like cheap booze and stale perfume. If it’s not the tomb-like quiet
in the basement or in the Davidsoniana Room, it’s the messy party-party abandon of the first and second floors. Even
I could pick someone up there. But I couldn't let myself. Humanities was calling me.

As the frustration of a thousand one-night stands in rickety library carrels welled up inside me, I headed for the
door. I needed some place—any place—where I could study. Just study. A poster on a column outside the library caught
my eye. It was begging me to go to a band party at a fraternity house. It said the Kinks
would be there. I wanted to go, but I knew if I did the Humes wouldn't get done. Damn.

I headed for the Union. If I couldn't stand the chatter in the Cafe or the ceaseless bombardment of mediocre
MTV music in the TV room, I could always retreat to the quiet of the conference room or the Big
Screen Room. On the way over, I met some guys I knew. I asked them where they were going.

“The 900 Room,” one of them told me.
“Yeah,” another one said. “They got beer.”
“The Stones're playin’ tonight, too.” The first one again. “REM’s openin’ for ‘em.”

They left me when I didn’t answer. I just stood there, like a detective novelist without a simile. I pulled
the Humes book from my pocket. It was a small but thick $19 paperback. I hefted it in my hand.
I looked at the title—All the Great Books Ever Written, edited by the smartest man in the world. I flipped
the pages but the action was really useless. I knew what I was gonna do. I would walk back to
my room; I'd take the Humes book—and put it squarely on the shelf. Then I'd go out and party like
hell. I'd see the Kinks, the Stones, and MTV, and still have time to talk about Rosie with the guys
on my hall. The Humes would get done. Some-
