Wednesday, December 14, 1983 / The Davidsonian 7

SPORTS

Men’s Basketball Team Evens Record At 3-3
By STEVE SOUD and SCOTT HUIE

The men’s varsity team evened its record at 3-3 as it coasted to easy wins over Erskine (88-52) and the University of the South (78-66) in Johnston Gym. The Wildcats remain undefeated in Johnston Gym this season.

Sewanee
This game had KW stamped on it. The senior forward was 9 of 11 from the field and 7 of 8 from the line for 25 points. He got them inside, outside, and on the break. (A Sewanee tackle averted a near monster dunk.) The Cats often played uninspired ball, but the sparse crowd and the deliberate opponent warranted little else. When the Wildcats were able to fast break, they did it well for the most part. Heineman in particular had some sparkling assists. Ace Tanner came up with the evening’s most exciting play: a spectacular, flying block that charged up the eager crowd. Three other Davidson players scored in double digits: Jim McConkey (14), Rafael Hernandez (12), and Caryl Dawson (10). Dawson shot poorly from the outside but drove the lane well for several key baskets. Sewanee made few mistakes. Their overall FG percentage (47.4 percent) is the best against Davidson this year (including Duke). In fact, Jim Startz (number 42) led all scorers with 27 points.

Erskine
The 36-point margin of victory was

Lady Cats
By KERRY BROWN

Houdini, “The Master of Escape,” provided much sleight of hand to accomplish the many amazing feats of his art. The sport of basketball also requires such distinguishing skills. With this in mind, it seems, after seven consecutive losing seasons and a 0-5 1983-84 season start, the Lady Wildcat Basketball Team has lost its magic touch. Losing consistently, the Wildcats need to reach into their ‘bag of tricks’ and conjure up a few magic spells to break this streak of bad luck. The Cats have not been able to rebound, shoot, or control the ball, and when a basketball team can’t accomplish these tasks, they’re in for a long, frustrating season. That frustration began for the Lady Cats at Barber-Scotia when they were defeated 115-23. After the Barber-Scotia Massacre, the Lady Cats lost their next four. The Cats seem to be suffering from an acute case of losing-itis after the first five games, but as Head Coach Patty Daley said, “The team is improving,” despite a five-game skid. The second Barber-Scotia contest offered a new Davidson squad — a squad with better techniques, and one which had a tad of experience on its shoulder. “We're focusing on individual improvement and team improvement, and we're succeeding,” Daley said. “We’ve improved in rebounding and shooting, and this is the road we’re taking for the season.”

Rocky Kmiecik

Now 0-5
The Cats have certainly improved, but their problems aren’t solved. The Lady Wildcats lost to Barber-Scotia 89-52 in the second contest between the teams, and though this is an improvement, the Cats still are not in the win column. The Wildcats’ Achilles’ Heel seems to be inconsistency, caused by inexperience. “Real young” is how Daley expressed the team’s age and game experience. The Lady Wildcats seem prepared for games in practice, but when the whistle blows for the game the players seem lost in space. Why? The Cats are facing teams twice their size, teams with twice as much experience, and teams that offer players twice as much money to play collegiate basketball. With the team against such odds, it is easy to see why they are drifting into oblivion when it comes to playing 25 games against top-notch Divi-sion One teams. In short, Davidson’s Lady Cats playing such opponents is like Mickey Mouse battling the Hulk. The Cats are simply too small and inexperienced to play against teams such as Barber-Scotia, UNC-Wilmington, and High Point.

Another problem which will plague the Cats this season is inexperience. Experience has been the missing link to an intricate puzzle which many young victory-starved teams can’t solve. Attaining experience will not be an overnight accomplishment for the Wildcats — hard work and determination can achieve such a task.

Davidson’s largest spread since 1978-79. The game was never really in contention; the 31-6 halftime score looked more like a lopsided football score. The Flying Fleet, intimidated by the more talented Wildcats, shot only 11.1 percent from the field (3 of 27) in the first half. The Fleet’s fleet guards relaxed a little in the second half and started filling it up from the twilight zone, but it was to no avail. Davidson, behind Rafael Hernandez, managed to shoot 58.8 percent from the field compared to Erskine’s 40.5 percent. Hernandez led all scorers with 20 points, and he may have played the best single game by a Davidson player this year. He was 8 of 11 from the field, 4 of 4 from the line, grabbed 11 rebounds (some of them nosebleeders), and had 5 assists. Frank Johnson was 3 for 3 from the field, primarily because of two shots of the high-percentage variety: the game’s only dunks. Billy Naso was 3 for 3 from the field and 5 of 6 from the line for 11 points. Freshman guards Chris Heineman and Caryl Dawson also played well. Kenny Wilson, on an “off” night, was 6 of 10 from the field, with 8 rebounds.

Wake Forest

Following Davidson’s 62-51 loss at the hands of the Wake Forest Deacons last Tuesday, a Winston-Salem television sportscaster called the game a moral victory for the Cats. After all, he said, Davidson’s basketball program has players who are “more concerned with their GPA than they are with their field goal percentage.” Kind words indeed, but as they say, a loss is a loss, even if the opponent is 4-0, favored by 20, and ranked 16th in the nation by The Sporting News.

Said Head Coach Bobby Hussey, “Sure, it’s disappointing to lose, and we can’t consider this game a success, but we did show much progress. Our defensive execution was solid, particularly in rebounding. Offensively, we missed a lot of shots early which got us in a hole. But we did control the tempo of the game, which was encouraging.”

The Deacons opened the game with eight unanswered points and maintained a 6- to 13-point cushion the rest of the game. The rout that the crowd of 7,000 expected never materialized. Not until the waning seconds of the game, in fact, could the Wake fans chant “ACC” with an air of confidence that typically accompanies Atlantic Coast Conference basketball.

In past games, the Cats’ offensive attack relied heavily on Senior forward Kenny Wilson, who was scoring at a 22-points-a-game clip. Wake scouted the Cats well, though, collapsing on Wilson every time he touched the ball. Consequently, “Cadillac” scored only ten points. A new offensive weapon emerged in sophomore center Jim McConkey, whose baseline jumpers contributed to his career-high 17 points. For the third game in a row, sophomore forward Raphael Hernandez led the team in rebounding with eight.

“This team is young and inexperienced, so I hope our fans will be patient with us,” Hussey said. “Their support means so much to the team and really helps them play better. Eventually, things will come together.”

Rocky Kmiecik

Tom Franz confronts a defender.