Davidson entered the final minutes of the half with a two-point lead and the ball, but could capitalize on neither of two possessions. The Irish, however, converted their final two possessions into baskets and thus entered the locker room with a 31-29 lead.

Davidson’s never-say-die defense opened the second half with a steal that eventually led the Cats to tie the game at 31-31. Notre Dame controlled the lead for the first nine minutes of the second half, but the Wildcats really turned the game around when Carroll nailed an 18-footer to the right of the key to regain the lead, 41-39.

It was at about that point that Davidson fans discovered what basketball is all about. At the midpoint of the second half, Carroll gambled one time too many and fouled for the fourth time. The hearts of five thousand trembled as Bobby Hussey motioned to Carroll to take the bench. Tension eased 1:16 later when the veteran floor marshal returned. “I told Coach Hussey it was now or never,” Carroll explained later. A prolonged stay on the bench would tighten the ailing back muscles and render him useless.

Both teams were showing the cool confidence and poise necessary to win during the last five minutes of regulation, but when Carroll threw away a pass against the Irish press with 4:18 left and a 45-43 lead, it appeared the Wildcats would be the ones to crack. Notre Dame, however, could not capitalize, and on Davidson’s next trip down Kenny Wilson was fouled while shooting, but the basket didn’t fall. With the clock stopped at 3:08, KW canned one of the free throws, giving Davidson a 46-43 lead.

In the subsequent minute and a half, however, Davidson made two potentially game-losing mistakes. First was a turnover. Luckily for Davidson, the Irish once again lost control of the ball and in the ensuing scramble Tribus surfaced with the ball. He took the ball downcourt, and with a huge, arching, snakelike windup that used every bit of his 82-inch frame, attempted a dunk that conceivably would have been the game. Instead, it ricocheted off the rim and Notre Dame came down with the ball. Paxson hit the first of three consecutive jump shots to put the Irish within one, 46-45.

Kenny Wilson got fouled on Davidson’s next possession and with 1:39 left he stepped to the line for a one-and-one with pressure heaped upon his shoulders. He hit the crucial front end, but missed the second shot to bring the score even, 47-45. Paxson again tied the game on one of his innumerable off-balance soaring shots, but with 1:09 remaining JC broke it with two more pressure-packed one-and-one free throws. Paxson neutralized those with yet another stunning 20-footer, and with :42 remaining Irish Coach Digger Phelps had his troops call timeout.

The Wildcats inbounded the ball successfully and worked the ball around the perimeter, but with :09 left it came loose and all hell broke loose. This time the Irish came up with the ball and called time with :03 showing. The Irish got the ball to Paxson with little difficulty, but as soon as he got it he was double-teamed by 6-10 Tribus and 6-6 Richard Wilson. The 6-2 All-American desperately threw the ball in the direction of the basket, but it fell quite short as regulation expired.

With 5:00 of OT to play, there was one key statistic few people noticed: Davidson team fouls-4; Notre Dame-7. Cliff Tribus’s almost spectacular dunk. Notre Dame won the tip, but Kenny Wilson forced a 5-second.Call and the Wildcats were in the driver’s seat. Both teams agreed on a deliberate pace, but Kenny Wilson took steps prematurely—or so thought the officials—and Notre Dame again had control. The Irish eventually worked the ball inside to Bill Varner, who appeared to have an easy dunk. Not so. Rowan came from the help side to seal it off, and Tribus came from Varner’s back side to execute a perfect block and force a jump ball. On the possession rule, it was Davidson’s ball.

On the Wildcat end of the court, Rowan got the ball on the right baseline. He drove the lane for what seemed a sure dunk, but got fouled at the 3:08 mark. He hit the first of two free throws and the Cats were once again on top, 50-49. A minute and a half later, Tom Sluby gave the Irish their first goal in some time, and at the 1:40 point Davidson asked for a time out. Again they worked the ball deliberately, and again they stopped the clock, this time with :43 showing.

As they worked the ball patiently around the perimeter, the Irish defense shifted well—for about fifteen seconds. When the sharpshooting Tribus got hold of the ball, he was swarmed. He reversed it to Kenny Wilson, who reversed it to Carroll, who was left uncovered by the crowd surrounding Tribus. “Carroll was one we didn’t want to take the shot,” Phelps would say later. There was never any doubt about the accuracy of the senior guard’s shot, and when it touched down with 27 seconds left, the Davidson fans exploded with the realization that they were going to win.

The Irish worked the ball to half-court and called time out with :21 remaining. When action resumed with the inbounds, Paxson got the ball, and as he drove left Richard Wilson drew a blocking foul but Notre Dame wasn’t in the bonus. The Irish took the ball out with :14 on the clock, and again the ball found its way into Paxson’s hot hands. There was never any doubt about the senior guard’s shot, but it hung in the air for an eternity. When it landed, there was a mad scramble for the loose ball. It bounced out of bounds, and with bated breath and pounding hearts, thousands took the edge of their seats awaiting the official decision. With the clock showing :04, he slowly raised his hand and pointed toward the Davidson bench. The crowd bellowed with relief and the thrill of victory.

Slowly they ringed the court to watch Tribus inbound the ball. The Irish fought and hustled to seal any openings, and Tribus made a heady time out call. When the Wildcats again took the floor, they ran the same play, and again no one was really open. Maybe Rowan? Tribus put the ball where it had to be: a few inches shorter and a defender got it; a few inches higher and it was loose. It was right on the money, and as Rowan came down he collided with Varner, who had moved under him. Davidson was in the bonus. Rowan, a study in poise and concentration, stepped up to the line with the weight of a long-starved basketball program on his shoulders. And he graced only net. 54-51.

Richard Wilson came down with the inbounds pass, and with that ball came Davidson’s biggest win in ten years. At least. Everyone knew it, and when hundreds rushed the court frantic with joy, it was because, as Digger Phelps said later, “They outplayed us. It’s Davidson’s moment. Give it to 'em.”

14 | THE DAVIDSONIAN | 7 January 1983