The Davy Jones Again/Friday the 13

Athletic Plans Unveiled

By FRANK WRIGHT

Revisions for the proposed Davidson athletic complex plans were unveiled yesterday at a special meeting of one of the mysterious
groups of old people which periodically come to campus. The new plans include scattering athletic facilities inside the now-existing Chambers
building to form the Davidson “Athletic Center.” “We believe this represents the ultimate synthesis of athletics and academics,” said Athletic
Director Ed Farrell. “The new plan will shave at least $4,000 off the original $15 million price tag. This plan
will also increase our gift potential since we can sell a name for each facility.”

Using architects’ drawings to illustrate the proposed changes, Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze outlined the new proposal. The most basic
change will be in the allotment of classroom, office, and restroom space. “There'll be some juggling,” said Meetze, “but everybody
will get a fair shake at some space.” Assistant Director of Communications Bill Giduz was unavailable for comment.

Phase One will involve the construction of a 5,000-7,000 seat basketball arena to be located in what is now Prof.
Joe Beatty’s office. “We were lucky he decided to leave, because the location down there is just perfect,” Meetze said.
The facility will include moveable seats for non-basketball activities such as the Artists Series or memorial fundraising concerts.

After glass panes replace the granite blocks of Perkins dome, a holistic solar-heated natatorium will top Chambers. “We’ve wasted all
those ergs for too many years,” Farrell said. The Gallery will become a true multi-purpose area as the present artworks
are tacked up on the racquetball court walls and weight rooms to be carved out of the space. “With appropriate
laminated covers,” Farrell added. “We’ve considered that wasted space for years and are happy to finally find a real use
for it.”

The President's office will be moved to an available space in a corner of the Communications office. “In assessing the
needs of Pres. Sony we felt this is what he would want. He can have his own plug there,” Meetze
said. The current President’s complex will be taken over by the basketball coaches. The vault on the first floor will
become the towel storage room. “We've had a tremendous loss quotient in that area and a secure area will certainly
help,” Farrell said. “Phases two and three should go pretty much like this, but they'll cost a lot more,” Meetze
said.

Hobart Prints F-word

By JAMES DICKEY

The spring issue of Hobart Park is “going like hotcakes,” said magazine co-editor Scot Myers. The spring issue was distributed
last Monday. “We think the new layout design is what’s attracting so many new readers,” he said.

When asked about the lack of drawings and photography, Myers said, “We consider the line tape a special form of
art. You'd think people didn’t like words from all the complaints we’ve been getting.”

This issue’s theme is Gratuitous Sex and Dirty Words, according to co-editor Suzanne Dickey. “There’s no other place on campus
where we can print the f-word,” she said, “much less words about anatomical body parts.”

When asked about the DCF Hobart Park burning ceremony in front of Chambers last Tuesday, Myers said that such displays
are great circulation boosters. “If I'd thought of it, I would have staged one myself,” he said. Myers said he
has underlined all the naughty words so people can find them more easily. “I used pink for the f-word, blue
for the sex parts, and bright yellow for adjectives. It’s a good system,” he said. Copies of the magazine are
available in the Dean of Student’s office behind Mrs. Archie’s filing cabinet.

Orientation

Next year’s freshman shoot will not begin until after parents leave.

Freshman College Reduces Freshman Population

By MARLIN PERKINS

Davidson College recently conducted a “Freshmen Shoot” to reduce the campus’s overcrowded and dangerous freshmen population. Town Policeand Campus security
have liquidated 196 freshmen since they began hunting in early March. Mayor MacCormac said that “the town is not interested
in freshman shooting as such” unless it is necessary for eliminating “a real health and safety problem.” Davidson Police Chief
Jack Warlick received numerous complaints about the freshmen from townsfolk during the school year. The freshmen have looted Food Slug,
burned out video games, and stopped up gutters with beer cans. Bill Bolding told President Spencer “something ought to be
done” about the freshman problem. Davidson Biology Professor John Williamson was called in to evaluate the situation. He recommended shooting
because, he said, “It’s cheap.” Williamson also noted that overcrowding affected the freshmen. “Many are undersize and more subject to
disease. Overpopulated freshmen are not as afraid of upperclassmen and are more likely to run in front of cars.” Poisonous
dart guns were used to make the freshmen’s last minutes as painless as possible. SPCF (Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Freshmen) officials approved the method. Said a spokesman, “It’s better to contain the freshman population. They can only
hurt themselves unless we depopulate them.” The Town Police gave two members of the ROTC department and a few other
people special permission to help with the freshman hunt. Mayor MacCormac says the town wanted “a limited number of people
[in the hunt]... whose marksmanship was beyond question... and who would proceed in an orderly manner.” Many residents ate the
dead freshmen, and the town police froze the leftovers for later consumption. The campus police gave their dead freshmen to
many of the janitors and maintenance men. “What was killed was eaten,” said Captain Hughes. The Town Police will finish
their freshman hunt at the end of this week. “With exams coming up, the freshmen don’t seem to be coming
out of their rooms as much,” said Warlick. Mayor MacCormac says the town will assess its effectiveness and “see if
we have a problem.” MacCormac says the town has not studied the issue long enough but admits that it might
be “an ongoing problem.” An appraisal of this year’s freshman hunt will have a direct bearing on next year’s planned
old professor hunt.

New President (continued from page 1)

Nelson for the post. Her uncanny ability to intimidate anyone was considered a plus for fundraising. Considering the current state
of relations between the faculty and the administration, the fact that she is not on speaking terms with much of
the faculty did not hurt her chances. She was reportedly eliminated because of her commitment to high academic standards. Word
leaked earlier this year that the committee was considering philosophy professor Bob Maydole for the job. Maydole immediately began work
on a 500-page “proof for the existence of Davidson College and the office of president.” He was hard at work
planning a justification for having the president's office on the first floor when the Sony’s appointment came out. The trustee
source said, “We were never seriously considering Bob; we just like to see him get excited about stuff. That’s why
we keep a sexist admissions policy.” The only other non-Davidsonian interviewed by the committee was John Z. DeLorean. “The financial
demands of an institution like Davidson will require new sources of creative financing. We felt Mr. DeLorean could meet these
demands. It’s too bad he had to go to jail, but oh well.” Jesus Christ, 34, of Galilee, was high
in the running judged by his quoted stands on issues similar to ones at Davidson. When asked how He felt
about college admissions policies, He said, “Suffer the children to come unto Me.” Speaking on fraternities he said, “Judge not,
lest ye be judged.” Christ could not speculate as to when He would be available to take the post saying,
“Yea verily, I say unto you no one knoweth the day.” Christ was eliminated when the Trustees discovered he was
Jewish.
