14 Friday, November 4, 1983 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ann Meador, Editor
David Resnik, Executive Editor
Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor
John Gathings, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager
Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor

Mind-Expanding, Study At Home

Davidson has finally made the commitment to international education it has been talking about for the past fifteen years. The beauty of the $10 million Rusk Endowment for International Education is that it will benefit the 75 percent of Davidson students who never study abroad. JYA presents invaluable experiences, but this Endowment promises similar mind-expanding study much closer to home.

Of the five major areas where the endowment will concentrate funds, four will affect students and faculty right here in tiny Davidson. Faculty seminars and summer grants will mean more of an international awareness throughout the curriculum; students will gain from that. Next, visiting foreign professors will enrich both the students and faculty interacting with them. More international students will be coming to Davidson because of Endowment funding. The library will be able to afford more resources on international topics. In all these cases, Davidson will gain perspective beyond the boundaries of North Main Street and Concord Road.

Although the endowment centers on international education, students will benefit simply from attending a college which takes international concerns seriously in action as well as rhetoric. As funds roll in and programs become real, the atmosphere of the College is bound to become more world-conscious as students and faculty expose themselves to issues of world-wide importance.

The only potential flaw in this plan rests in the question of students participating in the endowment’s programs. The endowment’s organizers have made a serious commitment to raise an ambitious amount of money; students especially must respond to this opportunity with an equally genuine commitment. Where resources for international education were limited in the past, they will be considerable in the future. Now that the chance to expand perspective is real, students should take advantage of these opportunities and follow the expansion of the programs. There is no question that actively embracing the endowment will help Davidson. It would be a shame if students fail to recognize how important their role is in bringing vitality to this program.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000 ext. 149 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: David McGee, Assistant News Editor, Chet Barksdale, Andy Clark, Roxanna Guilford, Wayne Magruder, Bruce Plourde, Greg Smouse, Julie Sternal, Aaron Taylor, Lisa Thomas, David Van Pelt, Elizabeth White, Ted Wilson

Features Staff: Brian Butler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris, Ida Phillips, Allison Wills

Sports Staff: Scott Huie, Assistant Sports Editor, Boyd Blackburn, Kerry Brown, Dave Earnhardt, Pam Harmann, Rand Hartsell, Frank Schwalbe

Photography Staff: Brad Brechtelsbeuer, Michael Dent, Caryl Dawson, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Mike Jester, Laura McGee, Carrull Overton, Anderson Scott, Mike Snell, Bruce von Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey, Alva Moore, Susan Norman

Circulation Staff: David McCurry, Manager; William White

Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Tadd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Kevin Horan, Rob Hollenbeck

Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Lou Hamilton, Debby Williams

Copy Editing: Christine Jackson

LETTERS

Big Loss

To the Editor:

I would like to know where you received your information for the article “Football Players: A Subculture Within the Community?” which appeared in the October 28 issue of The Davidsonian. Being a football player myself, I know that no one involved in the entire football program ever prepares for “another big loss,” whether we are playing Furman, S.C. State, or Guilford. If we were expecting to lose, why would we practice four hours per day? It would be much easier just to dress out on Saturday, run through some plays, hit the showers, and go to all the parties after the game rather than to practice all week long. If our intention...were to lose our games, then why hire coaches who put in a great deal of time and effort for a winning cause? Why not let the editors of The Davidsonian coach the team? Then maybe they would be able to justify the garbage about “preparing for a loss.” I don’t know if the philosophy behind a newspaper is that of preparing articles so no one will read them, but I do know that the football team goes out every week and works very hard preparing itself for a win! I believe in the freedom of the press, but I feel that what is printed should be true.
Mike Cate

Competency
To the Editor:
Concerning some of the comments about Football Coach and Athletic Director Ed Farrell in David Resnik’s football article last week, it seems to me that the questions about Farrell’s quitter policies should be secondary to the question of his competency.
Boyd Blackburn

PITCHERS
To the Editor:
We, a group of concerned students abroad, taking a moment from combating Marxism and sobriety, want to express our relief that we made the Right Decision. Foreseeing a virtually yeastless year, we all gladly accepted the opportunity to see the land of ever-flowing pitchers — we’re not scrimping on experience. Certainly, we sympathize with the plight of the poor, the hungry, and the pitcherless. Certainly it hurts. But doggone it, this kind of suffering has only one remedy, i.e., big, ripe, fat, gargantuan pitchers of golden brew. Yeah, we drink out of pitchers here. That’s the only way we know how to protest. We think we’re doing more than our share to support “the cause.” PITCHERS, we know that you’re fighting a losing battle, but in the end it will comfort you to know that Davidson students somewhere are enjoying big, ripe, fat, gargantuan pitchers of golden brew. The Davidson community really does care.
The Contingent of PITCHERS (People Imbibing Tall, Cool Habit-forming, Excessively Rich Succulence)
JY A Germany

Simple Facts
To the Editor:
Some questions are rarely debated rationally. Whether private citizens should be prohibited from the ownership of handguns is one of these questions. Understanding of complicated issues never results when people begin convinced (1) that there are “simple facts” which make careful investigation of casual hypotheses unnecessary; (2) that anyone who disagrees with them is wicked and insensitive. Such animus clouds personal judgment and poisons the atmosphere in which policy questions are debated. As an example of the former effect in Professor Williamson’s case, consider the remarkable inference from the fact that .02 percent of the handguns are instruments in homicide annually to the conclusion that 50,000 Americans are murdered by handguns. This inference would be valid if and only if it were true (which it isn’t) that there are 250,000,000 privately owned handguns in the United States. (Incidentally, the population of the U.S. is approximately 230,000,000). An easy check with our library reveals a different story. According to the U.S. Government-published Crime in the United States 1983, there were 8,474 handgun murders in the U.S. last year. Thus the probability that any randomly selected American would have been killed by a handgun last year was .000037 percent. Given what we know about handgun violence and social class, the probability of any Davidson student’s dying in this way is much, much lower. How then should emotion-laden questions be approached by people committed to rational inquiry and moral enlightenment? First, values and principles must be clearly identified and analyzed. What values of social life ought to be protected? Which means to these ends are morally permissible? Without a normative principle which says when it is permissible to pass laws of a certain sort, no inference about what should happen “simply” follows. Second, what do the data show? Is there evidence (as opposed to “simple facts”) to support the claim that, for example, legal restrictions on handguns reduce violence? Without evidence to the contrary my arguments stand.
Lance K. Stell

Dealie
To the Editor:
What’s the funnest thing at Davidson? It’s running the conveyor belt-type dealie that brings you your shirts in the laundry. I’d almost forgotten.
Mark Barrett ’82