The Davidsonian/Friday, April 8, 1983

FEATURES

Human Sexuality Examined — Dr. Thornberry Speaks On Double Standard

By ROXANNA GUILFORD

Political science Professor Mary Thornberry addressed a full 900 Room audience on the double standards of sexual behavior Monday evening. She traced the concept of a dual morality from the Middle Ages to the present, emphasizing its implications for Davidson men and women.

Her thesis centered on the debasement of human beings. Women, being placed into a “virtuous mold,” become somehow less than human. On the other hand, a value system that allows men to stray seems to view them as the “weaker sex.” In either case, the personhood of a given individual is compromised in order to fit a standard of morality.

In the Middle Ages, a woman’s sole virtue was her virginity (at least pre- and extra-marital virginity). This was articulated by a 14th-century writer quoted by Thornberry, “Only once suspected for all to be lost.” Any hint of scandal would ruin a woman. Tragically, many still hold that same attitude today. It is this double standard of morality (sexual and otherwise) that leaves men free to innocently pursue the same activities that would give a woman a reputation. Thornberry mentioned drunkenness, dancing on tables, flirting with, and dating numerous partners as examples of this. Men are congratulated; women are condemned, she said. In the realm of sexual activity, it becomes the slut/stud syndrome.

But it is not always the woman who suffers from this perception of morality. In addition to the terms slut and stud, there is the problem of lady/wimp. Whereas a woman who is “good, gentle, faithful, and self-controlled” is a lady, a man displaying these virtues is often termed a wimp. Thornberry used this example to show how Biblical standards have been perverted and dualized. Yet while the Bible intended the qualities for general application, Thornberry asserts that in actuality they are only required for women. Boys will be boys, as far as society is concerned, and boys will misbehave.

Drawing on the non-duality of Christian virtue, Thornberry emphasized the prohibition of gossip. Among females, it allows one woman to justify herself at the expense of another. The “virtuous” woman affirms herself by spreading gossip, be it slanderous or truthful, about another. By doing so, these women give implicit approval of the system that renders them unequal and even subjugated.

Often, even feminists support the double standard, maintaining that if women had control they would not be in better shape. Their justification is that women are somehow inherently docile. This is, in effect, the same argument used to subjugate women for hundreds of years. They are only restating the “higher priority” argument for their own preferences. In the long run, said Thornberry, this could not only be self-defeating; it could prove self-destructive.

Accepting a you-asked-for-it philosophy is also self-destructive. Thornberry illustrated the “blame the victim” syndrome by citing the gang-rape of a woman in New Bedford, Mass. Reactions included those who blamed the woman for being alone in a bar, flirting, and apparently for being a woman.

Thornberry called for a re-evaluation of ourselves and of our relationships, with an attempt to incorporate the full range of virtues for both sexes. It was this final statement that started a field question and answer period. One man suggested that the abolition of the double standard was actually a major step to an asexual society. Thornberry disagreed, maintaining that the elements that make men and women unique are not bound up in morality. Men and women can operate under an asexual code of conduct yet remain fundamentally different in other areas.

It was interesting to note that while Thornberry’s lecture thoroughly developed her thesis, the ensuing discussion seemed to bear it out.Even more, Davidson students, it appears, tend to view each other not as persons but as reflections of their preconceived notions. Such comments as “Davidson men never date Davidson women,” “Men operate on desire but women do so on feeling,” and “The man is the ‘giver’ in a sexual relationship so it is the woman’s responsibility to say ‘no’” are evidence of this. There were, however, honest attempts to probe the attitudes of the opposite sex and to understand what it means to be male or female. At one point a man asked outright, “What does it mean to be female?” to which others countered, “What does it mean to be male?” The general consensus was that absolutes can no longer apply to sex roles. Such roles are in flux; they remain undefined.

Bolding, Wheeler, Gay Activists Address Homosexuality

Homosexuality was the topic Tuesday night in the 900 Room as the Committee on Women’s Concerns and Y Student Service Corps presented the second evening of a focus on sexuality at Davidson. Panelists discussing misconceptions about homosexuality included Director of Student Housing Bill Bolding, staff psychologist John Wheeler, and three representatives from the Charlotte gay community.

Bolding opened the evening by addressing some of the myths about homosexuality, maintaining that homosexuality does not have root in the individual’s past. In response to an implication that gays choose homosexuality, one of the gay activists, Simone, retorted, “What made you decide to be a heterosexual?” Seldom was there any indication of defensiveness. Presenting themselves as normal, happy people with stable lives, Billie, Simone, and Dan (they gave no last names) demonstrated what they said: namely, homosexuals are human beings like everyone else. The only difference is the sex with whom they have sexual relations.

If anyone could be termed defensive, it would be the audience. Some of the audience were disturbed by the idea of homosexuals adopting children, so they discussed the effect of parents upon children. The panel responded by pointing out that their parents were heterosexual. Don cited a study in Science magazine which presented children living with a homosexual set of parents displaying no greater proclivity towards homosexuality than any other children.

Role playing was another question area of discussion. Many of the students wondered if in homosexual relations one partner necessarily plays a more masculine role while the other plays a more feminine role. For the majority of the gay community, the answer was no. This did not seem to satisfy some, who tried to get Simone to admit that she wanted to play the man’s role. (Concerning this issue, a young man made an interesting comment in the Union cafe afterward. “I don’t know why they got so defensive about the butch/femme stuff. Everyone knows that’s how homosexual relationships are.”)

Dan was asked how he reconciled his Christian beliefs to his lifestyle. His response traced Paul's supposed condemnation of homosexuals to a misinterpretation. Actually, he said, Paul was speaking against the “morally soft and the temple prostitutes.” He cited the oldest extant copy of Romans as evidence.

One student spoke of a “sadness” she had noticed in her homosexual friends and wondered if that was common. In response, the panel members brought out one of the most important points of the evening; most of a gay person’s problems come from heterosexuals. None of the gay persons on the panel would care to become heterosexual; none consider themselves depressed or maladjusted.

If one common theme ran through the two-day focus on human sexuality, it was the importance of understanding and acceptance. No one forced the audiences to accept feminism or homosexuality as a different moral code. Rather, various values, lifestyles, and ideas were presented for observation and discussion.