Real Davidson: Don’t Wear Polyester
By JANICE EVANS '86

In true Davidson student fashion, this project was done at an odd hour of the morning. “Real Davidson students don’t wear polyester,” said William, aside his book. We are in the College library and chatting at a normal volume; every student knows the library is the center of sociability on a weeknight and no one really expects silence.

“I wouldn’t say we're all preppies,” William continued, “but we do have our Muffies and Biffs.” William believes the Real Davidson student comes from the “Joe Average Middle Class” and is the child of an alumnus if possible. A great deal of diversity prevails, but it appears there is a campus-wide avoidance of polyester. “Even the ATO-ers choose all-cotton shirts and jeans,” added William.

In the course of our conversation, William pointed out a number of other qualities that are common to real Davidson students. For instance, students feel very strongly about the two main services to students: the Commons and the laundry. The Real Davidson student always hates the food; the polyester wearer, however, comments that it could be worse. Real Davidson students complain about the laundry’s machines eating their clothes while calmly setting aside their oxford-cloth shirts. Polyester wearers run to the nearest K-mart to replenish their wardrobe. On the other side of the laundry is the linens service: Real Davidson students care very little about the sheets, which belong to the College. In fact, they care so little that they change their sheets once a month... if it’s convenient.

We presented William with a Real Davidson student quiz, which he passed easily, even without an all-nighter:
Q: Why did the Davidson student cross the road?
A: To get to the post office.

Obviously, Real Davidson students are quite fond of the mail service. The problem of not getting enough mail is common though. Many subscribe to Time, Newsweek, or U.S. News and World Report, even if it’s only to have the box filled once a week. If they happen to get the L.L. Bean catalog (the Bible of preppies everywhere), they claim it’s coming to the person who had the box before. Real Davidson students are very discreet Bean customers; they don’t flaunt the catalog and they quickly hide the shipping box if they order anything. Polyester wearers, if they ever break out of their K-mart mold, wear Bean’s clothes inside out to show off the labels.

Of course, there’s academia. William made it clear that studying is far from nonexistent, especially due to the fact that Real Davidson students take Humanities and Chemistry 31. They research a lot and footnote everything. The hard-working Davidson student chews his pen cap — a sure sign of deep thought. But naturally, with all this studying, there are the proverbial study breaks, even though the Real Davidson student claims he doesn’t have enough money (only polyester wearers admit they have money to spare). The Union's bagels are a favorite, but the Real Davidson student will frequent the 7-Eleven when necessary... but never before 11:00.

Occasionally, there are longer indulgences in free time. Regardless of gender, Real Davidson students “do Nautilus.” Physical fitness is important, especially considering how seriously the Real Davidson students take their partying and rowdiness. Friday classes generally find the Real Davidson student bleary-eyed; to compensate for the weekend ending on Sunday for study purposes, the sixty-hour-long period of wildness begins Thursday afternoon. This isn’t the case if a student has a test on Friday, but then he probably pulls an all-nighter and doesn’t quite look his best as he staggers into class; often the hungover and the zombies are hard to distinguish from one another.

Last, but not least, Mr. Thurston told us about pride at Davidson. There are a variety of conflicting images. First of all, Real Davidson students dress in sweatshirts from other colleges, Ivy League if possible. (Polyester wearers fill their drawers with “DC” and “Wildcats.”) In addition, Real Davidson students have stacks of...those large plastic cups, usually from ACC schools and southern college party centers. But a Real Davidson student will never let on that he knows Davidson basketball isn’t quite like the sport at Virginia, Indiana, Kentucky, or North Carolina. Most importantly, William Thurston firmly asserts one thing: the Real Davidson student believes Chalmers Davidson’s story about Princeton once being called “the Davidson of the North.”

The Argument for Smoking

Let me start with a quote from Benjamin Franklin’s Poor Richard’s Almanack, although it is paraphrased a little bit:
There are three faithful friends— An old wife, an old dog, and an anti-smoker.

I am sure that every smoker here can appreciate this phrase. Every day we receive thousands of kind suggestions from anti-smokers: “What the hell are y’doin’? It’s bad for you.” And at the end of the day, we have completely become sick of them and yell, “Come on! Please leave me alone, you anti-smokers!” As Woody Allen says in “Manhattan,” “I don’t inhale because it gives you cancer.”

Smoking is bad for our health. And the problem is smoking also has a bad effect on the health of non-smokers around smokers. Realizing this fact, I do my best to respect non-smokers’ rights. For example, I always take a seat in a “smoking ghetto” when I take trains or buses, and I try to ask if I can smoke or not to all living creatures, from a college professor to a pest bacillus, within five inches around me.

We have many more things that are hazardous to our health, such as over-roasted hamburgers, rock ’n’ roll music, exhaust gases from high-quality Toyota cars, or video games (we can get a package of Winstons if we don’t play Pac-Man three times). Thus, nobody can overexaggerate the fact that smoking is not the only one of those wicked things which exist on the earth. And with all the bad effects on our health, smoking gives us five minutes of peace of mind. When I get so much tension that I cannot help singing the third movement of Gustav Mahler’s Symphony No. 5 loudly, the easiest way to avoid it is just to have a cigarette.

If I am not allowed to smoke, what substitutes do we have to lessen the extreme tension of mind? First, we have a good sort of sleep. To have a deep sleep is, no wonder, good also for mental hygiene. But we must see the other aspect of such a sort of sleep, as suggested in the well-known phrase: “Early to bed and early to rise / Makes a man healthy, wealthy, and filthy” (also paraphrased from Benjamin Franklin).

And after you have had an awful dream in which you are killed by a bunch of healthy anti-smokers, you will wake up and find you are dead of shock, although it is considerably difficult to wake yourself up in a situation like that...

How about jogging? It seems to be good for our health, and this is the reason why many healthy Americans enjoy jogging. But there is a possibility that jogging leads you to death. I am not talking about heart failure, and let’s not say traffic accidents. You can pay enough attention to avoid them. But you cannot tell what will attack you from the sky — maybe a dead sparrow, a tail of an A-300 headed for the Bahamas, Superman’s false teeth, or some intercontinental ballistic missile.

“Healthy” foodstuffs are also said to be good. But can you stand foods like pickled aloe or alfalfa salad every day? You can do so only if you can “live like Mahatma Gandhi.” And even if you are so cautious, or nervous about your health, you are destined to die sooner or later. I am sure that nobody wants to live for a thousand years to be a fossil and to be exhibited as a sample of “Healthy Homo Sapiens” in the Museum of Natural History in New York.

Finally, let me conclude this letter by quoting an old Japanese saying:
Hast thou not folly enough to quit smoking! Thou willst climb on the chimney for smoke.

Masaya Momiyama is an international student from Hyogo, Japan.

12 _ THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 February 1983