The Davidsonian/Friday, October 7, 1983

13 OPINIONS

Patterson Court Not In Jeopardy

Rob Spaugh

I wish to comment on the barrage of articles that have appeared in The Davidsonian over the past two weeks
concerning the stability of Patterson Court and the closing of ATO in particular. A theme running through these articles and
the opinion levied by Duncan Fraser was the contention that the Commons (a competitor of the Court) was an expression
of a desire on the part of the College to see Patterson Court fold and for the entire student body
to eat at one facility.

Primarily, the College is not interested in destroying the Court. It provides $500 a year to each house for capital
improvements; pays for half of major purchases such as a TV or stereo; provides tables, chairs, and furniture at no
cost; and charges no rent. The College pays the expenses of a CPA to help individual house treasurers, and provides
$1.50 reimbursement to the houses for many of the meals that freshmen eat there. Finally, Mr. Pritchard and his dining
service have taken great pains to work with the Court in the past on pooling arrangements and cooperative buying programs
that would reduce the food costs for the houses. None of these benefits fit the mold of the College and
Commons as being partners in the execution of Patterson Court.

Instead of being a deterrent to the strong survival of the Court, the existence of the Commons can be a
plus. It will force the houses to provide first-rate eating and social benefits, and the entire campus will benefit. A
similar situation existed when Rusk was the only all-women’s house. There was little incentive for them to provide a strong
social program, for it was known that any women who opted for an all-women’s arrangement had to choose Rusk. However,
with the founding of Warner Hall, Rusk has quickly increased the quality and number of its social offerings to the
point where it now rivals any house on the Court. The competition has improved the social activities of not only
Rusk members but the entire campus as well, and now Rusk is made up solely of members who want to
be there — not simply those who were forced to eat there because there was no other option. Just as
Rusk is now a stronger house because of the competition, so the Court can emerge stronger because of the competition
of the Commons.

I also take exception to several opinions voiced by Mr. Fraser. He contends that PAX is unique because it has
thrived under self-selection. This is a fundamental error, for had he bothered to research the subject he would have noted
that Warner Hall is the most financially secure house and that it, Rusk, PAX, and F & M are in
close competition for the largest membership (this figure includes the fraternities). All of these houses have been and will continue
to be successful in the same manner employed by the fraternities for over one hundred years — they will actively
recruit freshmen who wish to take an active part in contributing to the house. The success of eating houses under
self-selection is not a new phenomenon as he contends, nor has it been limited to PAX. His final paragraph concerning
Dr. Spencer’s letter before his departure was a wasted effort, for the letter was solely an attempt by the President
to ensure that no students’ rights were violated by self-selection, and not an ultimatum for the destruction of the Court.
The effect of the letter has been minimal, instead of catastrophic, as Mr. Fraser contests.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere to
these four guidelines:
1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2) We require that letters be neatly typed.
3) We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.
4) We reserve the right not to print letters that:
a) function as advertisements;
b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes;
c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in other letters printed on the same topic.is an opportunity for
student independence and leadership, and that it is also responsible for the majority of social activities that students enjoy. Where
would Davidson be without Dream Girl, Friday Afternoon Club, Hattie’s Night, Air Guitar contests, Tacky Party, Ice Cream socials, Hot
Tubs, Skip Castro, or MD Discos? Davidson students have always and will continue to flock to the Court because of
the wide range of social activities that are found there. The closing of ATO does not signify an exodus from
the Court nor the first of many executions to be levied by the Commons. It was due to an inability
of that house to adapt to changing student needs and desires and thus keep a wide segment of the campus
from which to gain its members and ensure its survival. I told many freshmen halls this fall that the camaraderie
and security that they have gained from their halls will end this spring, but the Court houses provide the opportunity
to continue that degree of fellowship and involvement throughout their remaining three years here at Davidson. The social life and
affiliation of the Court are positive aspects of life here that few students wish to pass up, and a strong
Patterson Court system will continue for some time to come. Spaugh is a senior History major from Winston-Salem, N.C. He
is President of the Patterson Court Council and eats at SAE.

Soaps Are For Gorillas
Mike Stephens

A couple of letters ago, I received a question from a friend concerning my television viewing habits. This friend, who
now attends a small, state-supported school in Athens, Georgia, asked me if I had been keeping up with “General Hospital.”
While on the surface this may seem to be an innocent question, this friend of whom I speak had a
certain insight toward one of my few real dislikes. I hate soap operas. This, I’m sure, might seem to be
mildly irrational. If you get that impression, you are quite mistaken. It is totally irrational. I suppose that my reasons
for carrying such deep resentment toward such a simple-minded thing as a television program may be unusual, but here they
are.

It is beyond my realm of imagination to think that the television adaptation of Nurse Gidget Goes to London and
Becomes Pregnant in 200 easy installments could possibly be the most consuming passion of any intelligent life form. What grieves
me more is that the persons adapting these dime-store novels are being paid gross sums of money for their labors.
It takes a really perverse sense of values to pay a person several hundred thousand dollars a year to transcribe
subject-verb-object sentences about who is sleeping with whose grandmother’s sister’s cousin's boss’s illegitimate daughter’s best friend... and why.

I hate to watch anything melt. Have you ever seen that slimy residue left behind by warm, what-was-once ice cream?
I truly believe that it is analogous to the mind of a soap opera viewer while seated in front of
that little grey screen. To the best of my knowledge, soap is a cleansing agent. Opera is a vocal performance
in the classic tradition. The only similarity that I find between soap, opera, and soap opera is that I cannot
stand to watch any of them for an extended amount of time.

I like to go to the zoo. At the one with which I am most familiar there lives a 600-pound
gorilla named Willie B. He is the proud possessor of a 19-inch color television set, which he watches religiously. His
favorite programs? You guessed it. Soap operas. The zoo keeper once told me that Willie B. becomes most irritable if
he misses his soaps, but he cannot in reality differentiate intellectually between them and the test pattern. He likes the
soaps better because of the inane chatter and the moving figures. The blank stare that comes across his face is
remarkably similar to the look my little sister gets at 3:00 every weekday afternoon.

I don’t suppose that there is really anything wrong with putting your brain in your pocket for a couple of
hours and enjoying a soap opera. It just disturbs me that there are people out there that really care what
happens to Heather and Scotty. As to answer my friend’s question, No, Sandy, I am not keeping up with “General
Hospital” — but you didn’t really expect me to, did you?

Stephens is a freshman from Roswell, Georgia.
