Second Phase Underway

Lake Norman Co. requests change

By JEFFREY MANN ‘84

The Davidson Town Council will vote Tuesday on a request from the Lake Norman Company, developer of Davidson Landing, for a special use permit to build 151 units of “unified housing” west of Davidson. The Council will also vote on a zoning change request for 7.6 acres of that tract from residential to commercial.

Vice-president of the Lake Norman Co. David Wright said the company plans to build condominiums which are “basically recreation-oriented because of the water. They aren’t primarily going to appeal to large families.” The dwellings would be weekend, retirement, or other “leisure” homes. Slips for boats will be included in the development.

This idyllic peninsula may soon sprout condominiums.

Wright said the pace of the construction will be tied to demand and should take three to seven years. “If the market wants it, they could go up faster. But I don’t think that will happen.”

“I think a lot of people are worried about a huge area springing up. That just doesn’t happen. It’s physically impossible for one thing,” he said.

The Town Council will vote February 8 on a related request for annexation from the Lake Norman Co. and two homeowners in the area. Wright said this step was necessary to hook up with the city’s water and sewer lines. “It also seemed like the right thing to do in terms of control. We’re willing to concede that [to the town],” he said. The present water and sewage capacity of the town couldn’t handle the entire proposed project, but town officials are considering expanding their facilities or consolidation with the Charlotte system.

The company needs the special use permit to build higher-density housing on the land bordered by Lake Norman, I-77, and Goodrum Rd. Griffith St. becomes Goodrum Rd. when it crosses the highway.

The proposed construction is part of the Davidson Landing project which started with Spinnaker Cove, already under construction north of Griffith St. The development is partly financed by Synco, the huge Charlotte real estate and development corporation.

Wright said they hope to use the land rezoned commercial for a restaurant or other facility to serve the new residents. The land will also serve as a buffer between the homes and the highway.

Looking for a chance to move in the fast lane? Then check out Marine Corps Aviation. The training is superb. The challenges are unique. Your ticket to fly is your college diploma and your drive to succeed.

If you’ve got what it takes, you could be at the controls of anything from a Cobra to a Harrier to the hottest thing flying, the F-18 Hornet.

See your Marine Corps Officer Selection Officer when he visits your campus or call him at the number listed below, today.

Call your Officer Selection Officer collect at (704) 371-6128 or see him at your campus 13-15 December.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/7 January 1983