Lee and Peer earn pet
SYMEEMAZON'S Soak gs
pig Iy e a .¢

Two Davidson professors,
Philosophy Dr. Lance Stell and Assistant Professor of
History David Shi, are this year to
work at the National Humanities Center in the Re-
search Triangle. The Center, a privately funded insti-
tute for advanced studies in the humanities, accepts ap-
proximately 40 fellows each year. Each fellow is pro-
vided with an office and is aided by research assistants
who have access to the U.N.C at Chapel Hill, Duke,
and N.C. State libraries, as well as a manuscript typing
service. Opened in 1978, the Center resulted from a
planning grant from the American Academy for the
Arts and Sciences in which seventeen sites around the
country were investigated as possibilities for this facili-
ty before the Triangle area was chosen.

The simple life
occupies Dr. Shi

In the middle of North Carolina’s center for techno-
logical progress, the Research Triangle, Davidson His-
tory professor David Shi is in search of what he calls
“the simple life.” As a fellow at the National Humani-
ties Center (NHC), Shi has been able to devote full
time to the research and writing of his book The Simple
Life: Plain Living and High Thinking in American Cul-
ture. Shi seeks ambitiously to encompass “the whole
sweep of American history” as he unearths our tradi-
tion of back-to-basics existence. So far, Shi has com-
pleted eight of the ten chapters of the book. Shi says
that his research “has shown him how persistent this
social ideal [simple living] has been, especially in the
face of the desire for material gain.”

Shi explores “the variety of meanings and practice” of
simple living, tracing its transformation from a
community activity (i.e., Quakers) to a more individual-
istic position (i.e., Thoreauvian), and he emphasizes
this trend in his work. His choice of personalities to il-
lustrate this thesis ranges from the 18th-century Quaker
John Woolman, Shi’s favorite figure, to E. F. Schum-
acher, a contemporary advocate of simplified small-
scale technology.

When asked how he views his own life with respect
to the simplicity scale, Dr. Shi replies that “as a
teacher, a certain acceptance of the simple life is inher-
ent. However,” he adds, “what I’ve learned makes me
more conscious of the need to order one’s life so as to
promote independence of action.”

As a testament to Dr. Shi’s nonacademic pursuits, he
shared a limerick written by Harold Perkin, a distin-
guished English social historian at the Center. The lim-
erick, entitled “Plain Speaking and Deep Drinking”
goes:

“At the Center,” observed David Shi,
“it’s as plain as American pie
that plain living, high thinking
mean eating and drinking
And the simple life, getting sky high.”

Dr. Stell explores
implications of
group rights

Without so much as an “abracadabra” or mystic flash
of preternatural light, Dr. Stell vanished from the Da-
vidson campus this year to pursue funded research in
one of his specialties. Although his project is certainly
significant, to have received funding at all in this eco-
nomic climate represents a noteworthy achievement it-
self. Stell has entitled his project “Rights, Groups, and
Individualism.”

“It’s often an interesting question what signifi-
cance the professional activities of humanists really
have for the practical world,” the Philosophy professor
commented. “Some of the things I’m interested in con-
cern whether courts ought to recognize claims pressed
on behalf of groups and use that as grounds for denying
individuals certain kinds of things . . . Issues like this
came up in affirmative action cases where certain
claims are pressed on behalf of groups — maybe to
the detriment of individuals.”

Stell has also been
proposing professional perspectives in the workplace, or in a
legislature, or whatnot.”
In the higher reaches of philosophy, progress
proceeds slowly. “It’s going slower than I'd
hoped,” Stell noted. He has managed, however, to
complete the first chapter of a “book-like manuscript”
and presented it to the Seminar of the Na-
tional Humanities Center and, perhaps later this year,
to the Triangle Ethics Group in a revised form. The
piece is entitled “On Taking the Separateness of Indi-
viduals Seriously,” and it apparently has been well re-
ceived.

The appellation of Stell’s paper betrays his individ-
ualistic stance. “Well, what I’m going to try to argue is
that group rights don’t exist . . . If I can’t show that,
then I’m going to try to show that even if they do, it
would be a bad idea to recognize them or introduce
them into a political community.” Those who are fa-
miliar with Stell’s stance against gun control certainly
should recognize the beginnings of another infuriating
yet well-constructed argument against some institu-
tions beloved by liberal students, such as affirmative
action, or the apportion of benefits to the disadvan-
taged at the expense of individuals better situated. Cur-
iously, however, the position against group rights is
hardly a conservative stance, since it would implicate
conclusively the status quo of nations such as South
Africa as immoral at the same time it condemns U.S.
government hiring quotas.

And so it appears that tiny, conservative Davidson
may well be contributing a bit of radical philosophy to
the burgeoning pile of faculty publications next year
through the (moral) agency of Dr. Stell.

Spring Break
Airline and Cruise

Let Us Make Your Reservations At
NO Charge To You
Call (704) 567-6081

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 February 1983
