THE DAVIDSONIAN  
Volume LXIII, Number 11  
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036  
Wednesday, December 14, 1983  

Advisory Council Distributes Survey On Athletic Policy  
By DAVID RESNIK  

Davidson’s athletic policy is the focus of a survey now being circulated by the Presidential Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics. The faculty committee on the Advisory Council distributed the surveys to the faculty on Tuesday. The student committee on the Advisory Council, in conjunction with the SGA Athletics Committee, will distribute surveys to students after Christmas break.

The survey asks whether Davidson places too much or too little emphasis on major intercollegiate sports (football and basketball), minor intercollegiate sports, and club sports. The survey also asks which sports should be emphasized more, and whether Davidson should have a junior varsity or freshman level of intercollegiate competition in areas where there is a demonstrated interest. The faculty and student surveys ask the same questions, but the student survey also asks students to indicate what sports (intramural and intermural) they have participated in at Davidson.

‘Neutral Approach’  
Advisory Council Secretary and philosophy professor Al Mele said the Council is taking a neutral approach in conducting a survey on athletics. “We're trying to gather student and faculty opinion on athletics as a step toward formulating a philosophy of athletics,” he said. Economics professor Peter Hess agreed with Mele, adding that the Advisory Council is trying to use the survey “to gather information without revealing our sentiments,” he said. He views the survey as “an instrument to generate discussion. The more information we have, the better our policy will be,” he said. Hess said that if the surveys reveal a strong sentiment about a certain athletic policy, then the Council will issue a statement.

Several Drafts  
The Advisory Council made several drafts of the proposal and discussed it with students, Athletic Director Ed Farrell, and Interim President Frontis Johnston. The Council also asked political science professor Thomas Kazee to critique a preliminary draft of their survey. In the fall of 1981 Kazee’s Public Opinion class asked students a number of questions about school policy, including several questions about athletic policy.

Hess is collecting the faculty’s surveys. So far he has received 60 of the approximately 120 surveys that were distributed. Hess said it would be premature to release any of the survey results until the entire survey is compiled. The Advisory Council may conduct another survey after they compile the results of the first survey.

Mele said the Advisory Council had talked about conducting a survey at the beginning of the school year. “We were trying to decide what our function should be,” Mele said. “We decided our function was to be a representative body, so we decided to conduct a survey.”

The Trustee Meeting  
The Trustees invited the Advisory Council to speak at their fall business meeting. The faculty on the Council expressed concern about student welfare, in particular the difficulties freshmen football players face. Students who attended the meeting urged that minor and women’s sports need more funding. The Trustees informed the Advisory Council on the (Continued on page 4)

D. G. Martin announced his candidacy from the Carolina Inn

Martin Announces Candidacy For Congressional Seat  
By JEFFREY MANN  

Declaring himself a “different candidate,” D.G. Martin '62 announced his candidacy last Wednesday for the congressional seat currently held by Jim Martin, a former Davidson College chemistry professor. Davidson was Martin’s fourth stop of seven for the day. About 150 people, including a class from Davidson Elementary School,listened to the 30-minute speech Martin made from the balcony of the Center for Special Studies. “Because of my independence from interest groups, I can bring a fresh approach to solving the problems this country will face during the remainder of this century,” Martin said. Martin is a Charlotte lawyer specializing in real estate law. In his announcement speech, Martin called for new priorities in national defense. “Our ‘big stick’ — a massive nuclear deterrent — is a very big stick, but it may have become too big to carry. For this reason, I will support any reasonable step to terminate, suspend, or moderate the nuclear arms race,” he said. He also advocated “pay as you go” budgetary principles to achieve a balanced budget. “I will support radical and perhaps unpopular steps to address this problem unless better proposals are made,” he said.

Martin has many connections to Davidson. Martin is the son of former College president D. Grier Martin and twice served as class chairman of the Living Endowment campaign. Henry Doss took a leave of absence to serve as Martin’s campaign manager. Professors Lou Ortmayer, Mary Thornberry, and Tom Kazee of the Davidson political science department have been briefing Martin about some of the issues likely to come up in the campaign.

Dean’s Committee Warns Fraternities
By DAVID VAN PELT

Davidson’s Committee on Self-Selection has issued one warning and one sanction to fraternities this year in order to “protect the right of freshmen to self-select,” according to Committee Chairman John Hackett. The Committee’s sanction consisted of a brief suspension of one fraternity’s activities. The warning was in the form of a letter sent to another house. The Committee would not release the names of the fraternities involved.

Chairman Hackett believes that penalizing fraternities is apart from the primary function of the Committee. “I feel the real role of the Committee is to work out differences,” he said. Hackett admitted that while many fraternities were initially “really resentful” of the Committee, he sees their attitudes changing. “A lot of people understand more what we’re trying to do, and are more supportive of it now,” he said. The houses generally abided by the Committee regulation which prohibited their issuing bids before Thanksgiving, Hackett said.

Committee procedure is still largely uncertain. As it now stands, any freshman who desires counseling on the self-selection process, or feels his rights have been violated, may contact any member of the Committee. If the Committee decides a violation has occurred, representatives of the affected house are invited to engage in a hearing to discuss the matter. Committee members then decide on appropriate action.

Dean of Students Will Terry organized and selected the six-member committee this year, but he is not directly involved in its proceedings. He does not attend Committee meetings and only acts in Committee matters on appeal. “My emphasis has always been that this should be a student-run thing as much as possible,” he said. “I’m very pleased with their activities so far.”

Sigma Alpha Epsilon President Terry Kurtts criticized the Committee’s ban on early oral encouragements, a measure instituted by the Committee to preserve the (Continued on page 4)

Inside This Week
‘Home Brew: Student practices frugality and good stewardship of resources. Page 5
‘In the Locker Room: The heart and soul of women’s basketball. Page 8
‘Beyond Faith to Reason: Eric Hill responds to the kernel of faith. Page 9
‘With Response: Letters. Pages 10-11