The Davidsonian / Friday, May 6, 1983

Photo courtesy Bill Giduz

Transpersonal Association Conference to Feature Jackson Paintings

By MIGUEL ABREU

Last year Dr. Cecil Burney, a member of the Davidson class of ’72, was elected president of the International Transpersonal Association. He is responsible for Herb Jackson’s participation in the ITA’s Eighth Conference on the theme of “Individual Transformation and Universal Responsibility,” which will take place in Davos, Switzerland from August 27 to September 2.

Burney is an admirer of Herb’s work — among other things he commissioned a 5’ by 9’ painting by Jackson called “Spirit Tree” — and sees in it an obvious connection with the transpersonal orientation. “It embodies the transpersonal perspective,” he said.

The International Transpersonal Association is a “scientific organization that unites individuals of different nationalities, professions and philosophical or spiritual preferences who share the orientation... that there is a fundamental unity underlying all of humanity and the material world,” states the December ’82 bulletin of the ITA. Further, Burney summed up his image of Jackson and his art by quoting Heidegger: “A person is neither a theory nor a process but an opening or a clearing through which the Absolute can manifest.” “Jackson is an opening toward the Absolute,” added Burney.

Above Jackson’s artistic qualities, Burney considers the artist a “superb organizer.” When in Davidson, he witnessed the Print Competition that Jackson put together and was “impressed by his organizational abilities.” With this in mind, he asked Jackson to shape an exhibition featuring artists whose works embrace the perspective and concerns of the ITA. The show will include four of Herb’s paintings from the “Veronica’s Veil” cycle and a catalogue with a statement by each artist and an introduction by Dr. Roger Lipsey, a writer for Arts magazine in New York.

The conference, along with the exhibition, will offer dance, theater, film, and music performances, as well as special programs on the nuclear crisis and other major problems of global concern, and, of course, a number of speeches and presentations from a diverse group of speakers. Among them are many major world figures such as former Secretary General of the United Nations Kurt Waldheim, musicians Herbert von Karajan, Yehudi Menuhin, Paul Horn, ballet director Maurice Bejart, author and close friend of C.G. Jung Laurens van der Post, as well as Maharaja Karan-Singh and Zulu Sangoma author and artist Vusamazulu Credo Mutwa. However, the highlight of the week at what Jackson calls “a sort of university of the mind” will be the closing speech by the Dalai Lama.

Jackson is excited about his participation in the conference, for his work has always been closely related to spiritual matters, and as an artist he is involved in meditation on a regular basis. Finally, Jackson thinks that the show can be “very impactive because the people who are interested in the transpersonal don’t think of art.” Jackson believes that “art offers a different context” and sees the exhibition as an opportunity to “show that there are visual paths as well as verbal paths” to express, reach, or communicate with the transpersonal realm.

‘Drawings’ at the Mint: Nature from the mind

By STEWART CAULEY

Herb Jackson’s show “Drawings,” organized by the Mint Museum in Charlotte, contains 36 oil crayon and pencil drawings measuring 76 by 56 centimeters. It will be open at the Mint until May 9 and will travel, by 1985, to Springfield, Missouri; Asheville, N.C.;Columbia, S.C.; Huntsville, Al; Reading, Pa.; Lisbon, Portugal; Fayetteville, N.C.; and Edmonton, Canada. The pieces in “Drawings” are entirely nonrepresentational works. If anything, they suggest nature viewed at either extreme of size; they could be microscopic or telescopic slices of the world. Their status as art comes, like that of Jackson Pollock’s later works, from a purely intuitive reflection of the artist's mind. Jackson didn’t stop working on any piece until it was finished. He considers the act of painting meditation, and the pieces in his show are the result of a unified act of meditation. They are not meditations on something but simply meditations; none of the works judge or depend on anything material except, maybe, oil crayon and paper.

Jackson’s interest in the unity of each work is also present in the show. The show exhibits no progression or search for something. Each piece is an equal part of the whole. Jackson says, “A show is like writing a book; each work is like a chapter.” Dr. Allard, in her essay for the catalogue, points out that the unity of the show “demands that the viewer jettison many current assumptions about modernist art: for instance, ‘the formal solutions’ to particular compositional problems presented by the artist’s earlier work are not a major issue, as in the work of abstract painters with whom he might be compared. Rather, it is the experience of the unity of the individual work by the individual viewer that is crucial here, and what these dense, breathing surfaces present is the shape of creative activity made usable and palpable. The creative act does not evolve or change; rather it manifests itself in different ways.”

Like a partially erased and smudged chalkboard, Jackson’s drawings make sense in a vague, although not unimportant, way. Every shape fades into another, every line seems to be undefined at the ends, and no color is a solid field. Every part of the drawing fits, in a natural way, into another; color works with line, form with texture. The color in each of the drawings is masterful and by far the most seductive aspect. Even if the viewer of the drawing is oblivious to the form, the colors are immediately enjoyable; each somehow works with the others and produces a glow or mood in real life that is only glimpsed in the show posters hanging in Chambers. On closer examination, the color schemes utilize every part of the pieces. Often the edges of the paper are mirrored by a central shape whose color differs from the border (and even internal shapes are mirrored by lines and smaller patches) giving the piece an uncanny energy that is difficult to explain.

Very quickly Jackson’s works transcend what can be written about them. They are adventurous and meaningful because they accent what is purely visual and not narrative. “Everything that is relevant and artistically valid in a picture must be visual... Where in practical life we employ other faculties than sight to complete our fragmentary visual experiences... in the virtual space of a picture there are no such supporting data. Everything that is given at all is given to vision...” says Suzanne Langer. Jackson’s work challenges the viewer to abandon practical life and meditate, to actually experience what is spiritual about each drawing. His work comes at us like a paradox: nature from the mind.