Janus Stowe Recovers
By DUNCAN FRASER

Davidson youth Janus Stowe underwent bone marrow transplants on October 14 in an attempt to send her lymphoblastic leukemia into
remission. All signs point toward a successful recovery, although doctors at Johns Hopkins University Medical Center cannot call the operation
a success until a 100-day waiting period has elapsed.

Janus’s parents, Wayne and Vickey, run Stowe’s Exxon on Main Street in Davidson. The situation in Baltimore is still “a
waiting game,” according to Mrs. Stowe. “They’re giving her antibiotics to prevent infection, and they’re giving her transfusions of red
blood cells as she needs it.”

Janus is in good spirits and is recuperating well from the surgery. “She’s well aware of everything that’s going on.
She’s able to do most everything she wants to,” Mrs. Stowe said.

Mr. Stowe said that once Janus recovers from some minor bladder trouble and returns to eating on her own, she
will stay in Baltimore on an outpatient basis if the operation proves successful. “She’ll stay... until all of her blood
counts are up and she’s eating well,” Mrs. Stowe said.

During Janus’ hospital stay, Mrs. Stowe is living in Baltimore at the Ronald McDonald House, which provides housing for parents
of children who are critically ill and require extended hospitalization. Mrs. Stowe has found the House “an educational experience” and
a source of support from other parents in similar circumstances.

Generous friends, residents, and students in the Davidson area have raised money through fundraisers and donations to help cover medical
and personal expenses incurred by Janus’ illness. Mr. Stowe estimated that at least $80,000 had been raised by the community
to help cover the expenses which could total $150,000. Mr. Stowe added, “I think the community’s taking good care of
her.”

On October 21 and 22, the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity and Fannie and Mable’s Eating House played a 24-hour volleyball-athon
in the Davidson Community Center to benefit Janus Stowe. They played 100 volleyball games and collected more than $1,000 in
donations. Students from PAX, Emanon, and Sigma Phi Epsilon also helped out with the volleyball-athon.

(Material also contributed by Ben Rose, North Meck)Newspaper. | Hardees Friday, November 11, 1983/The Davidsonian

Student Evaluations
(Continued from page 1)

The faculty November 3 urging them to distribute the PAC’s course evaluation forms in order to “demonstrate its willingness to
have student evaluation.” The PAC’s form asks students to tell why they selected their course and instructor and how much
time and effort they put into the course. It also asks students to comment on the positive and negative aspects
of the course and instructor and seeks suggestions on how to improve the course.

McKelway thinks a majority of professors will use some kind of evaluation. In addition to the SGA and PAC forms,
many professors are distributing their own evaluations. The Faculty approved the PAC form last spring, but the administration would not
accept the form because its prose questions would be difficult to evaluate.

McKelway said the SGA has a “perfect right to pursue” its own evaluation, but he thinks their action is “not
very responsive to the faculty action of last year.” The PAC met yesterday to continue discussing student faculty evaluation and
to work out specific agreements concerning a new form. The PAC is now considering a brief answer device that will
be more accessible. The PAC’s new forms will have the three prose questions from the old form as well as
several short answer questions.

McKelway said that the PAC has “overcome its dispute” with the administration and that he knows of “no disagreement now
that ought to impede anything.” He is confident that a new system of student faculty evaluation will be in place
by the end of next term. If the PAC fails to resolve the issue by next term, Monroe said that
the SGA Senate could first directly petition the Trustees, and if they still received no response, they could conduct their
own evaluation and publicly disclose the results.

The SGA and the PAC have not met this term to discuss student faculty evaluation, although Monroe and McKelway have
discussed the issue. The administration will not look at either the SGA or the PAC forms. Both forms will be
returned directly to professors. The administration may hold conversations with professors concerning the forms’ content and student reaction to the
forms.

Juniors and Seniors
Earn over $100.00 per month
9 a.m.-3 p.m. Mon.-Thurs.

If you are a math, physics, chemistry or engineering major with a “B” average or better, earn over $1000.00 per
month through your junior and senior years.

The Navy’s NUPOC (Nuclear Propulsion Officer) Collegiate Program is looking for qualified individuals. Other benefits include:
***$3000.00 cash bonus immediately upon acceptance into program
***$22,000 starting salary — $40,000 after just four years
***FREE Medical/Dental care and many other TAX FREE benefits
***30 days PAID annual vacation
***1 year graduate level training
***Immediate responsibility
***Valuable engineering experience
***Education benefits
***Job security with fast promotions

If you’re interested in finding out more, send your resumé or transcripts to:
Roy Sarvis
U.S. Navy Officer Programs
1001 Navaho Dr.
Raleigh, NC 27609
Or call 1-800-662-7231

Summers included!
