The Davidsonian / Friday, April 1, 1983

A Better Definition of Self-Selection

Tracy Thompson

The issue of Self-Selection seems to be in the limelight these days. The SGA and the Patterson Court Council have
set up study committees, the freshmen have recently “experienced” the process, students have been filling out questionnaires, and weekly editorials
are appearing in the Davidsonian. Clearly, we are gearing up for a change. Evidence of this is the determination with
which these two study committees have seized the issue. Both are in the process of finalizing proposals, and the SGA
is working towards a campus-wide referendum to be held in the next few weeks.

The purpose of this article is to urge thoughtful consideration of the issue by the campus as a whole before
we are called upon to make a choice. My concern is that we are limiting our scope, getting caught up
in rhetoric and semantical games and letting our personal desires dictate what we think the campus as a whole should
do or think. I, for one, have fallen into this trap. Originally, I was going to write an “inspired and
impassioned missive” on the moral superiority of self-selection. I was going to try to convince you that self-selection was more
in keeping with the stated ideals of the College, that we have no “right” to judge others as fraternities do,
etc. — all the “familiar rhetoric” as Hall and Tantillo called it last week. Although I will still argue these
points if asked, I have changed my mind on what is the best policy for the school as a whole.
This “new” opinion comes, literally, as a result of hours of discussion among friends and fellow self-selection advocates. Please consider
the result of our debate carefully — I, and those who agonized with me, don’t want our sleepless nights to
be in vain.

During our heated debate over the goodness-badness, rightness-wrongness of selective versus non-selective social clubs, in an attempt to decide what
Davidson should adopt as a whole, it became very apparent that such arguments were going to lead us nowhere. We
were not going to change our token fraternity man’s mind — nor he ours — on the basic question of
how group membership should be determined. And the truth is, both “sides” could see the validity of certain arguments from
the opposition which made sticking to our arguments dogmatically very difficult.

What we staunch “self-selectors” finally came up with, after we let poor John go home, was what we believe is
a better definition of “self-selection.” Our idea is basically a rewording of the much talked about “two-tiered” system proposed by
the fraternities but it is a rewording with which we can live. True self-selection is letting the individual choose the
type of social organization and selection process under which he or she wishes to place him or herself. This means
that if a person “selects” to participate in and embrace the traditional fraternity system, fine. If (s)he believes that a
house without such membership restrictions is more their style, that’s fine too. And, if (s)he feels that a fraternity or
eating house with a strong emphasis on organized social activities (band parties, etc.), participation and house loyalty is not their
thing, that’s ok too. The important thing is that all three social options be available and that individuals be given
the opportunity to decide which alternative suits them best.

Translated into a practical social policy for the Davidson campus, this means a strong national fraternity system, a healthy self-selecting
eating house system and a competitive, high-quality food service system all of which are viewed as equally attractive alternatives, depending
on individual taste. The beauty of this system is that it does not presume to know what the campus as
a whole wants socially (a ridiculous impossibility anyway) and it does not present the three alternatives as “tiers” but as
equals.

We realize that such an ideal, theoretical answer may have problems in actual practice and we are looking into this
now. But, we do see this as one viable answer to several of the problems with the present system and
other suggestions. First, it is an attempt to make “everybody happy,” but it does not try to do this by
making everybody play by the same rules. Second, it removes the perhaps unconscious but offensive idea of superiority-inferiority, and expands
Davidson’s social possibilities, by viewing it not as a system with two or more “tiers” but as one school with
at least three social-eating alternatives. Third, it eliminates a lot of the potential for hurt feelings currently caused by ignorance,
misunderstanding or uncertainty by allowing all groups to lay their cards on the table. Granted, our proposal...is a compromise and
one for which we must still consider the specifics, but it is a compromise we, and we think others, can
live with. And it is one we are willing to spend our time considering. It also breaks the “emotional stand-off”
between two distinct ideologies which was leading us nowhere. We still believe in self-selection — that is, the inherent goodness
of letting the individual choose the group and not the group the individual, but we can’t justify imposing this belief
on everyone. Self-selection as a policy was adopted at Davidson when fraternities were the only social option on campus. The
choice, therefore, not to join (either your choice or theirs) meant the possibility of few organized social activities and the
stigma of not being a fraternity man. The decision to go to self-selection was also a reaction to the national
mood and the economic condition of the court. People nationwide were questioning the practices and philosophy of fraternities, and Patterson
Court houses were suffering from money problems. Times and circumstances have changed; perhaps it is time for us to reconsider
our system. I have no doubt that something is going to be proposed soon — there is just too much
frustration and dissatisfaction on all sides for things to remain as they are today. We are either going to have
to enforce self-selection as it is written, rewrite our policy to fit present practice, or come up with a workable
alternative. I suggest the latter. It is obvious that we all do not have the same taste when it comes
to how we want to spend our time, nor do we have the same philosophy or criterion for choosing our
friends and associates. Does this mean, however, that we can’t co-exist — or benefit from the diversity?

Thompson is a senior from Charlotte, NC

Thanks

Poster Destruction

To the Editor:

On behalf of Kappa Alpha, I'd like to thank everyone who came down to KA last Friday night and helped
raise money for the Muscular Dystrophy Association at our M.D. disco. The campus was very supportive, and as a result,
we brought in over $700 in donations at the door. In addition, I want to thank the following individuals and
businesses in and around Davidson that donated kegs, money, and prizes for the dance: Southern Wholesale, Inc.; Peregrine House; Beeler
Wholesale, Inc.; Giorgio’s; Knox Realty; Park’s Rexall Drugs; Conder, Setzer, Hoover, and Associates, Inc.; The Flower Cart; The Village Store;
Natural Resources; Withers Electric Company; Ralph Quackenbush; and C. Murray McConnell. The disco was successful only because the campus and
the entire community supported our efforts at KA. Again, thanks to all.

Jack Cobb
Chairman, KA M.D. Committee

Correction

To the Editor:

Please allow me to correct your calendar which listed the Union Board meeting as being on Monday in the 900
Room. The meetings are actually held on Tuesdays at 5:00 p.m. in the Big Screen Room. These meetings are open
to anyone who would like to attend, and I would encourage those who are interested in campus programming or Union
events to show up and share your ideas.

Charlie Lovett
President, Union Board

To The Editor:

We, the Freshmen listed below, would like to express formally our disappointment concerning the destruction that was done to the
campaign posters and signs of the candidates for SGA Senator. We certainly do not condone such behavior, and we feel
that it does not reflect the maturity level of the majority of the class. Not only does the destruction mean
that hours and hours spent making and putting up signs have been wasted, but it also represents a violation of
the Code of Responsibility by which all Davidson College students are expected to live. As specifically stated in Section IV
of the Code, “Therefore, students will not engage in any form of activity which results in or might naturally result
in (1) damage to property... .” In addition, this behavior was even more inexcusable last weekend because the prospective students
were here for SGA Weekend. As stated by Alex McCallie in the article on SGA Weekend in last week’s Davidsonian,
“Ultimately, it is the attitude and behavior of the students that will affect them [the prospectives].” Several prospective students commented
to us about the graffiti and torn posters. Unfortunately, those prospectives saw immaturity and irresponsibility as characteristics of Davidson students.
While we realize that it is too late to affect this year’s elections, we hope that this letter will express
our concern over the matter and will make a few students aware of what they are doing and will make
them respect the Code of Responsibility in the future.

Molly Manville and 39 other members of the freshman class
[A list of signatures is on file in the Davidsonian office]
