12 Friday, November 4, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Women’s Volleyball Team Finishes First In Tournament

By STEVE BYERS

When political science professor/women’s club volleyball coach Lou Ortmayer says that this year’s team is “by far the strongest we’ve
had here,” he has a trophy from a first-place finish in the Charlotte Invitational Tournament to prove it.

Led by four-year starters Anne Elliott and Mary Legerton, the team finished the season with a 13-2 record. The team
played all its matches in September and October, most of them on the road. Johnston Gym has no suitable facilities
for playing an intercollegiate volleyball schedule at home. Montreat and Anderson handed the team their only losses.

According to Ortmayer, the squad deserves tougher competition than it has faced, but unless the sport gains intercollegiate status such
competition is unlikely to occur.

Ortmayer, who has coached the team since its inception in 1978, believes the program continues to grow every year. He
mentions sophomores Wendy Fulks, Amy Hartman, Ellen Oerter, and Beadsie Woo as reasons to look forward to next season. But
Elliott, who turned down a volleyball scholarship at Duke to attend Davidson, and Legerton have both been the center of
the team the last four years. Their graduation next year will leave Ortmayer with big shoes to fill.

The team’s season is over, but they will play an exhibition match against the faculty team tomorrow at 3 p.m.
in Johnston Gym. The faculty team features Ortmayer and history professor Peter Krentz, who played varsity volleyball at Yale. This
just might be the team’s toughest match this year.

Athlete Of The Week

This week’s Athlete of the Week is Tony Cabrales, who led the soccer team to a 6-0 romp over VMI
Wednesday. His two second-half goals, made within two minutes of each other, put the game out of VMI’s reach and
helped keep the Wildcats in the race for the Southern Conference championship. Cabrales, the team’s leading scorer over the past
few weeks, is a sophomore from San Salvador, El Salvador.

Order in advance—Wine & Beer by the case: Cost plus 10%
Keg beer: Cost plus 10%
Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St.-Davidson, N.C. 28036
892-7521

Wilkins Barbecue and Seafood House

Specializing in Barbecue Beef, Pork, and Brunswick Stew
Also Seafood
1 Mile South of ABC Store in Cornelius
892-3362

AIR FORCE ROTC — HERE ARE THE FACTS

When you're discussing something as important as your future, it’s urgent that you get the straight facts and that you
understand them. Air Force ROTC can be an important part of your future. We would like to outline some of
the facts and invite you to look into gathering more.

It’s a fact: the Air Force needs highly-qualified, dedicated officers—men and women. It’s a fact: we need people in all
kinds of educational disciplines. It’s a fact: we're prepared to offer financial help to those who can qualify for an
Air Force ROTC scholarship. Get together with an AFROTC representative and discuss the program. We'll give you all the facts.
It could be one of the most important talks you've ever had with anyone about your educational plans.

ROTC Gateway to a great way of life.

MAKE TRACKS FOR THE BEST EATIN' ALL AROUND!

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’ bring this money-savin’ coupon.

STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND ORANGE JUICE $1.29

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due.
This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours only at participating Hardee’s
Restaurants through May 31, 1984.
© 1983, Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.

REGULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due.
This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants
through May 31, 1984.
© 1983, Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.
