The Davidsonian

Friday, March 18, 1983

Joe Beatty Resigns

Heads to Randolph-Macon

By ROXANNA GUILFORD

Professor of Philosophy Joseph Beatty has resigned effective at the end of the academic year to become Chairman of the Philosophy Department at Randolph-Macon College in Ashland, Virginia.

Beatty says he resigned because “in a word [it was] the promise of a permanent position in a challenging atmosphere.” He will assume his new position this September.

Beatty leaves with a few regrets. He anticipates missing his colleagues in the Philosophy department, co-workers whom he describes as “challenging and supportive.” Neither does he relish leaving his students, of whom he also speaks highly. Nevertheless, he reserves less than glowing remarks for other aspects of Davidson.

Beatty alludes to “some disagreements with the Vice President for Academic Affairs,” T. C. Price Zimmermann. Led to believe that a permanent position was “unlikely,” he sought permanent positions elsewhere, finally accepting Randolph-Macon’s offer.

Beatty is keenly aware that any criticisms from his position could easily be construed as “sour grapes.” While he wishes to avoid this, Beatty still speaks his mind.

Not only did he feel the ever-present uncertainty about his position’s security, he also felt that he was “not entirely at home” at Davidson.

Additionally, Beatty shared a few criticisms of the Humanities program. He considers it a “superficial” treatment of subjects that are only “serially related.” In spite of this, Beatty praises current attempts to reevaluate and improve the program.

With his engagement to English Professor Ann McMillan and a promising job ahead, Beatty leaves Davidson with a few regrets but limitless possibilities.

Schooled at LaSalle, Johns Hopkins, Haverford, and Northwestern, Beatty has taught at Williams, Duke, and Davidson.

DAVIDSON DRY GOODS

TRADITIONAL AND CLASSIC CLOTHING

Casually Waiting for Spring

in Separates from Davidson Dry Goods...

101 North Main Street

Pictured on the campus of Davidson College (left to right):
C. Melton in Gabrielle knit top $25 and denim mini $36
M. Nix in Shrader Sport knit top $36 and knit bottom $38
M. Edward in Esprit sweatshirt $27 and pleated twill pant $36
J. Poole in PBJ knit top $28 and cotton/poly skirt $32

10% student discount with Davidson ID

Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Telephone 704/892-8156