Cont’d. From ‘Favored Paladins Fall, 58-52’

A win on the road, and in the long run may be of far greater magnitude than it appears now.
Davidson Assistant Coach Jim Baker explained, “In order to be in contention for the Southern Conference championship, we feel we
need to win at least one game on the road against an upper division team.” Upper-division includes Furman, along with
UT-C, East Tennessee, and Marshall.

It was a game of delicate team psyches. The Wildcats were coming off the huge upset of Notre Dame, and
after spending a few days on Cloud Ten, they would have to come back down and get ready for Furman.
It wouldn’t be easy. The Paladins, on the other hand, were coming off a heartbreaking 51-50 loss to Clemson when
coupled with their loss to Davidson on Cliff Tribus’ three-pointer in the waning seconds, had a perfect opportunity to exact
double-edged vengeance before 3,648 of the home folks. Thus the betting line was Furman by six.

Give Bobby Hussey credit for getting his players ready for the game, for that was half the battle. If the
Cats were going to come out flat, as expected, it would have shown in the opening minutes. In spite of
a George Singleton dunk (the result of a breakdown in the press) that gave the Paladins a 21- lead early,
the Wildcats had few problems. In five minutes of play, they built up a 10-4 lead, without the help of
Kenny Wilson who was benched with two early fouls.

By late in the half, the Paladins clawed back to pull within one, 23-22, but after a Davidson timeout, Tribus
gave the Wildcats a little more breathing room with an 18-footer from the left baseline. Kenny Wilson had returned to
the lineup, and he opened up the lead more, 27-22, with a steal and subsequent layup. After Furman scored another
basket to pull within three, freshman forward Greg Spurling scored and was fouled, moving the Paladins to within one, 27-26
with 20 seconds left. He missed the free throw, and when Tribus got the ball on the other end of
the court, he scored as he was fouled with 5 seconds left. He converted his free throw, and after Singleton
missed a last-second shot, Davidson took the locker room with a 30-26 lead.

The second half opened on a dunk, but this time Kenny Wilson was scoring for Davidson. After that, the Wildcats
rattled off six more unanswered points.

Poaring Start
By SCOTT BEAVER ’84

Davidson’s grapplers got off to a start that “really pleased” first-year coach Vince Arduini. The Cat wrestlers competed in the
Catawba tournament on Saturday and won two first places, one second place, and one third place. One of those first-place
finishers was 177-pound junior Tom Hissam, who was named the tournament’s most outstanding wrestler.

“This was a great way to begin the season,” said Arduini. “These guys did a great job in the off-season
getting in shape, and worked really hard in practice. Co-captains Chris Tiernan and John Breidenstine did a great job, and
their leadership was probably the important thing in getting us ready.”

Hissam, who joined the team last season, won both of his matches by fall. “Tom was great in the tournament,
and he could have an outstanding year,” said Arduini. Tom Oddo, a sophomore in the 134-pound class, scored Davidson’s other
first-place finish. Arduini termed Oddo’s adjustment to a higher weight class “encouraging.”

Junior John Breidenstine, wrestling at 142 pounds, picked up Davidson’s second-place finish. Arduini was “real pleased with John, because he
was wrestling in a tough weight class.” Sophomore Mike Keeley and freshman Bill Oldham pounded the mats for third-place finishes
in the 150 and 158-pound classes respectively. Freshman Clay Carrolalso grappled at 158, and he lost in the consolation finals
in double overtime, finishing with a 1-2 mark, his victory coming by pin. “Having two freshmen in the same weight
class is a problem, but a nice one for a coach to have,” said Arduini. “We can only wrestle one
at a time, and that will be tough to work out, since somebody will have to sit.”

The first Southern Conference action for the mat men was a tri-meet Wednesday night in which Davidson lost to VMI
but beat Furman. The Wildcat matmen face Elon and Livingstone in a tri-meet tomorrow at 1:00. “The Southern Conference is
a great wrestling conference,” says Coach Arduini, “and we’re looking forward to a good season. I don’t know where we’ll
finish, and I won’t speculate on whether or not we'll have X amount of wins, but if the guys just
wrestle up to their potential and have a good time doing it, then that will make the season a success,”
said Arduini. “We do have a few guys who could challenge in the conference, but it’s too early to tell.”
They'll be further tested tomorrow when they face Elon and Livingstone in a tri-meet tomorrow at 1:00.

to build a 38-26 lead. The double-digit lead didn’t last long, but the Wildcats maintained a solid lead for the
next five minutes. Then at the 12:56 point, Brian Rowan, who had been playing extremely well, came out with his
fourth foul. Freshman Jim McConkey replaced him. About midway through the half, a Rich Wilson dunk moved the lead out
to 47-38, but with 8:48 left and the margin back down to four points (47-43) he was sidelined with his
fourth foul. Junior Tom Franz replaced him. Thirty seconds later, Tribus gave Davidson another six-point lead, 49-43, with a jumper.
Thereafter, however, the Paladins fought back to close the gap. Freshman guard Dave Conrady hit a three-pointer which closed the
gap to 52-50 with 5:57 left, and Davidson called time out. The Cats came back at a slower pace as
Tribus scored again off a Tom Franz pass, to go up 54-50. Conrady walked with 3:20 remaining, and the seniors
Rowan and Wilson returned to the lineup. Rowan, however, lasted only thirty-five seconds, as he fouled George Singleton for his
fifth personal. Singleton canned both his free throws to cut the margin back down to two, 54-52, with 2:45 left.

Saturday—Monday—Two Days of Great Athletics:
Wrestling vs. Elon and Livingstone
Women’s Basketball vs. Meredith
Men’s Basketball vs. East Tennessee

The Wildcats worked the ball deliberately, but Tribus forced a turnaround jumper that missed, but McConkey came up with the
rebound. He got the ball out to the perimeter, where Richard Wilson was fouled with it. He went to the
line for the one-and-one with a two-point Davidson lead and 0:26 left. He hit the front end, missed the second
shot, but in Notre Dame tradition, the rebound went out off Furman. Singleton fouled Carroll with 0:18 left, but he,
too, could hit only the front end of the one-and-one. That made it 56-52, and victory seemed certain. It was
certain when Conrady forced a shot, Richard Wilson rebounded, made a great outlet pass to Tribus, who got every last
bit of a two-handed dunk to end the game, 58-52.

Notes: Tribus was game-high scorer with 18. Kenny Wilson scored 10 in 28 minutes, Richard Wilson 10 in 34, and
Brian Rowan 11 in 27. Rowan, who also tied with Singleton for game-high rebounds (7), played superbly and may be
returning to pre-season form. John Carroll passed out 5 assists, and the team forced 16 steals. McConkey played well despite
one glaring freshman mistake. Gerry Born and Rafael Hernandez also played well in the win.

1:00
4:00
7:30

BARRY DOWD
THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 January 1983
