The Davidsonian / Friday, April 22, 1983

Student Art Show Opens In Gallery

By LINDA HULBURT

The annual Davidson College student art show opened last Wednesday in Chambers Gallery. Though the opening was graced with nothing
more glamorous than coffee, coke, and doughnuts, the exhibit revealed a larger and younger composite of artistic energy than any
single show throughout the year, simply because it is comprised of a cross-section of the best Davidson student art produced
this year.

Each spring the Davidson Art department composes a show of student art which a professional artist then judges and selects
first, second, and third prizes as well as a small number of honorable mentions. This year junior art major Pat
Donley won the first prize for his large untitled square acrylic painting. Donley’s piece, which depicts three pigs and a
music director in a field of blue, engages the viewer with its distorted, whimsical perspective and the implied interaction of
the characters. This intentionally distorted realism and intense interplay among the pigs and their director achieve the effect of a
moment captured in paint rather than of a graceful, controlled portrayal of a group of figures. This creates a dynamic
picture in terms of subject matter and perspective. Donley manipulates the figures and shadows on the blue ground to create
a solid, tight composition. Donley painted his winning work this term in Advanced Painting with Professor Russ Warren, who commented
that the piece could well hold its own in a professional art competition above the student level.

Senior Mike Goode won second place for his small acrylic painting of a vaguely surrealistic street scene. Goode, like Donley,
intentionally distorts the rules of perspective, accomplishing an effect that approaches cubism. The artist flattens subject, background, and shadow to
reassemble them in a brightly patterned landscape which appears to be both exterior and interior at the same time. This
deliberate ambiguity based on the artist's lack of inhibition in depicting and stylizing many views of the scene at once
accounts for the painting’s cubistic nature.

Mark Sheffield, also a senior, won third place with his lithograph “No Parking.” The piece combines tonal variation and suggested
patterns to convince the viewer of the mood of a particular place without tightening into “correct” perspective. The work is
dynamic and intricate for all its small scale, yet it avoids appearing cluttered.

Honorable mention awards went to Bret Logan for his color lithograph, Wilson Lowrey for his large acrylic painting, Jon Lawry
for his lithograph “Janitor’s Jig,” Lyn Bolen for her small acrylic painting, and Ambreen Fraser for an acrylic painting of
a primitivistic fire rite.

While pleased with the judge’s selections, Warren stressed that many worthy works went unrecognized, and the final decision for the
prizes must have been close. He was also surprised that judge Jeanette Oliver, a sculptor, awarded prizes for prints. Sculptors,
he noted, are more likely to be drawn to paintings than prints or drawings when presented with works completely outside
their own medium. Oliver exhibited her sculpture in Chambers Gallery last fall and has shown extensively in Los Angeles, the
Midwest, the Southeast, and most recently in Washington, D.C. Oliver judged the works, which hung anonymously in the gallery, completely
alone and without the influence of any member of the Art Department.

This year, said Warren, the show was organized differently from past shows. Warren and Art professor Karen Brautigam selected pieces
this year which they felt best exemplified the artistic principles they attempt to teach in class. They then eliminated some
works due to limited space. The student art show has traditionally represented a more democratic sampling of the best work
that each student who took an art class that particular year produced. Warren and Brautigam were less democratic in their
selections this year in order to make the show more competitive. To have one’s art hung in the show is
an honor in itself, as in any professional art show. Furthermore, the Art Department wanted the best show Davidson College
could produce. Warren is pleased that a liberal arts college with few art majors has produced a show which could
rival any fine arts college show. Some students are represented more extensively than others, because the works wereselected solely on
the basis of their merit. A distinctive, unique style seems to be emerging in several artists’ work. Curlin Reed’s series
of etchings, for example, demonstrate a facility for universal humor not often manifest and less often successful in student work
or in serious art apart from the realm of greeting cards. Lentz Ivey's watercolors also reveal a seemingly effortless facility
with the medium which he couples with unusual, though simple, compositions. His art achieves a finished, architectural look. Meg McCarn’s
series of three acrylic paintings on paper exhibits a similar clean facility, though with less angular compositions than Ivey's. McCarn
renders her subjects in a way believable and recognizable to the viewer while she subtly simplifies the same subjects into
patterns and forms manipulated on the paper in nearly translucent paint to accomplish works both lyrical and precise. Several of
the prize-winning artists work in mediums new to them, which perhaps renders their placing in the show more remarkable. Third-place
winner Mark Sheffield and honorable mention winner Jon Lawry both took art classes for the first time in this, their
senior year and had veritably no prior experience in creating visual art. Senior art major Bret Logan, who received an
honorable mention award for his color etching, has been recognized for his painting in the past but has just recently
begun to work extensively in intaglio. Overall, the student art show is an exhibit of the often surprising accomplishments of
Davidson students as well as an amazing and intriguing group of art in its own right. The show will run
through the end of Spring term, and it is well worth seeing more than once.

By FRED BROADWELL

Bzzz! “Vladimir, Estragon, and Pozzo” shouts a player. “That’s right,” replies German professor Hansford Epes dryly, “and what other characters
from Waiting for Godot can you name?” The players look at each other, search the ceiling of the Green Room
and scratch their heads until the knowledge they seek erupts. Epes asks another puzzling question and then another — ad
infinitum. This is College Bowl practice — the time when Davidson’s best junk-food brains sharpen their skills to defend the
College Bowl tradition. This year the team (consisting of L. Marvin Overby, Barry R. Page Jr., Bradley Mullis, John Eglin,
Gordon Turnbull, Chris Blake, David Sisk, and Tim Waples) has amassed an impressive 25-8 record from four separate tournaments. “Much
of the credit for our success should go to Dave Bruns, whose activity fee has kept the team going all
year,” said Coach Epes. Mullis agreed: “Thanks to you, Dave, it’s working.”

At the tournament held at the University of Virginia in February, the Davidson “A” team (Overby, Mullis, Turnbull, and Page)
won two out of three games against very strong competition. When asked to comment, Page complimented the stuffed breast of
chicken at the Homestead Restaurant, but had nothing else to say except, “Well, we won.” Overby and Turnbull disagreed with
Page, suggesting that really the rack of lamb was the star attraction of the tournament. Always the outsider, Mullis commented,
“Hey, I had the cold seafood bucket.” “To offset the cost of the food,” remarks Waples, “We bought our gas
with cash because it was four cents a gallon cheaper. We wanted to save Dave’s money.”

This Friday and Saturday the team is participating in the Southeastern Invitational Tournament in Rome, Georgia. “In keeping with the
philosophy of the Classics Department that ‘all roads lead to Rome,’ we decided to drive.” The biggest competition, besides Davidson's
own “B” team (Sisk, Waples, Blake, and Eglin), will probably come from Emory and Georgia Tech, says Epes. When asked
about their chances this weekend, Eglin replied, “You never know; College Bowl is so all-or-nothing.” Mullis adds, “We are by
far the prettiest team in College Bowl history, despite Marvin's [Overby] disputed manhood.” Page confidently remarked, “There is no serious
competition for us.”

The national college bowl tournament was cancelled due to financial problems. “The College Bowl organization has been losing money for
the last several years and can’t afford a tournament this year,” said Epes. In lieu of the big tournament, said
Overby, “we’re saving for a trip to Rio.” The team is also hoping for a new facility in which to
practice: Says Mullis, “In the Green Room the agnostics, I mean the acoustics, are so bad. Did you get that?”
