THE DAVIDSONIAN | Volume LXXII, Number 20
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, April 29, 1983

Effective July
Executive Board Names Johnston Interim Pres.
By DAVID RESNIK

The Executive Board of the Board of Trustees has recommended that retired Kenan Professor Emeritus of History Frontis Johnston be appointed Interim College President effective July 1. His new term would last from three to five months, depending on how long it takes the Search Committee to select a new president. The Trustees will consider Johnston's appointment at their next meeting on May 6-7.

Johnston served as Acting President in the summer of 1968, after former President David Greir Martin resigned. “I don’t see it as a time for any innovations or startling change,” said Johnston about his term as Interim President. He intends to “preserve the status quo until a new man comes.” Johnston said he will represent Spencer’s views on most issues and will meet with Spencer to discuss college policy before he takes office.

Johnston claims he won't make decisions in a “vacuum.” He plans to rely on the advice of Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann, Dean of Students Will Terry, Vice President for Development Jack Powers, and other College officials. He expects to oversee the College's normal summer activities such as building renovations, athletic camps, the July Experience, and alumni meetings during the summer. Johnston also plans to be on call in case an emergency arises.

If he must make decisions after school starts, Johnston said he will avoid making “long-term policy that would commit the College,” because he feels it is “better to wait” until the new president assumes office. However, if an urgent problem arises, Johnston said he would attend to it.

(Continued on page 4)

Town Day Promotes Community Awareness
By ELIZABETH WHITE

The Davidson Parks and Recreation Department will sponsor Town Day from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Saturday, May 7 on the town square across from the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Town Day is a celebration held annually for the last decade. Town Day is also a time for Davidson College to show its interest in the community, according to Y-Student Service Corps President Doug Ammar. Y-Corps will work “as a bridge between the community and the campus” to get students involved in Town Day. So far, Ammar reports an “exciting response” and cited many student organizations that have volunteered time and talent to the celebration.

The festivities will begin with a parade down Main Street for all who wish to participate. Following the parade, the action will move to the Town Square where numerous booths will be set up. Among the booths will be a sponge throw booth sponsored by the Davidson Christian Fellowship, a cookie decorating booth by the Alpha Phi Omega Service Fraternity, a dunking booth by the Black Student Coalition, a button-making booth by Warner Hall, and face painting.

Housing Situation Improves
By DUNCAN V. FRASER

The annual Davidson housing lottery finished last week and for the first time in recent years there was no major shortage of student housing. Housing Director Bill Bolding called the situation “excellent compared with previous years.” Only about 20 pairs in the lottery did not receive a room, although these may be put in first east Belk and Basement Cannon, halls currently reserved for freshmen.

The perimeter housing was also assigned by lottery. An unusually large number of women applied for these houses, resulting in more getting them. Four groups, two male and two female, failed to receive houses. Lottery numbers ran 0-400 for seniors, 400-800 for juniors, and 800-1200 for sophomores. Sophomores in triples were allowed to draw junior numbers. Bolding said that there were “more triples this year than usual,” which Bolding attributes to reduced rates. Room rates for next year will be $1200.for singles, $1010 for doubles, and $725 for triples. Bolding also attributed the improvement in the housing situation to the graduation of the largest class ever. The class of 1983 began with more than 420 freshmen. Bolding expects the off-campus housing population to decrease next year and his office is not granting permission to those already assigned rooms to live off-campus.

Painting by ATO. Rusk House will dress as clowns and give out flowers, ROTC will participate in the parade, the Y-Corps will decorate bikes and sell ice cream, and the new nuclear organization will have an information booth. The Davidson Town Band will provide music, led by Music professor William Lawing and College Chaplain Charlie Summers and his family. Ammar also mentioned that several other groups, including SGA, Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, and the soccer team, plan to work at Town Day but have not yet determined what they will do.

Town Day will feature a sidewalk chalk-art contest sponsored by The Artworks, a local organization dedicated to the advancement of the arts. The local garden club will also take orders for bulbs. As a souvenir of the celebration, the Parks and Recreation Department will sell Town Day tee shirts for $5.00 each. The Parks and Recreation Department will also sell $1.00 raffle tickets for a ride in a hot air balloon. Tickets will be sold on the Green with a drawing held in the afternoon. Winners will be able to select a date for their flight.

The North Meck YMCA will sponsor two races on May 7. Participants may register at 8:30 a.m. on the Green for a one-mile race beginning at 9 a.m. and a five-mile race to begin at 9:30 a.m. Registration fees are $3.00 for the one-mile and $5.00 for the five-mile races. All who register will be given a T-shirt. Winners will be awarded ribbons and prizes.

(Continued on page 4)

Students Petition For Self Selection
By JEFFREY MANN

A new entry into the haggling over an SGA proposal for Patterson Court self-selection appeared last week as Pete Skillern and Edward Hay forced a referendum on the issue, instead of relying on a phone survey which the Patterson Court Study Committee (PCSC) had decided to go with. They forced the referendum by collecting 191 signatures on a “petition calling for a student referendum vote on the various proposals concerning Patterson Court.” SGA By-laws require a referendum if a petition signed by ten per cent of the student body, 140 students, calls for one. The petition does not support any particular proposal, but merely expresses “the belief that this is a matter to be brought before the students.”

“We were unhappy with the possibility that the SGA would be voting on this issue without getting student opinion.” Skillern said. “We felt a referendum would be better than a survey,” he added pointing to the added legitimacy of a referendum and that an election is more commonly used to determine policy. “How the Trustees receive this information is crucial. We felt that everyone should have an opportunity to voice their opinion.”

The five options on the ballot call for no change, strict enforcement of self-selection, the PCSC proposal of allowing oral encouragements but still affirming the right to self-selection, a “two-tier” system of bids for fraternities and self-

(Continued on page 4)

Inside This Week:

Spiderlings: Sophomore Chris Humphries recently won a biology research grant. Story on page 3

Court History: Self-selection has been an issue on Patterson Court for years. Story on page 5

The Bard!: Shakespeare meets a new interpretation through the Performing Shakespeare Comedy seminar. Story on page 6

Vereen Bell: Creative writing awards were presented last night. Details on page 7

IMAC: An intramural council is being formed. See page 11