6 Friday, April 15, 1983 / The Davidsonian

The Kenya Connection -
Davidson Graduates Teach in Mud Huts.

By EMMA CARNE

For several years, some of Davidson’s more independent and adventurous graduates have been going to Africa for a year or more to teach in secondary schools. Although not on any official Davidson program, around seven Davidson students per year obtain teaching posts in Kenyan village schools.

Many of these students have ended up as headmasters at their respective schools; others help set up fundraising projects, teach sports, run day centers for children, start chess clubs, and organize a variety of activities in addition to their teaching. Most teach in Harambee schools set up and funded by the villages themselves from their own resources. These schools seek to reach a certain level of academic proficiency at the high school level, at which point the government will assist financially or even take over altogether. Davidson students are particularly valued as teachers at the Harambee schools because the few well-educated villagers often prefer to teach at the richer, better-equipped government schools. The native teachers of the Harambee schools may have little more than a high school education themselves.

The schools — both co-educational and single-sex — vary in size from 30 to 400 pupils. All schools are at high school level, and some are affiliated with primary schools. Subjects taught include math, physics, chemistry, religious education, English, history, geography, and biology.

Many of the students are much older than American high school students, and this may well be a daunting prospect for a 22-year-old graduate to find himself in authority over some students in their mid-twenties. The teaching system is much more authoritarian, using some corporal punishment.

John Stanback, a senior planning to go to Kenya at the end of this year, feels that such discipline could be difficult to enforce, accustomed as Americans are to a far more liberal system. Stanback will go to Africa in November and begin work at a school in January when their school year starts. He will principally teach English, and although he will teach lessons speaking in English, he is currently learning Swahili.

Edith Parker, a Davidson graduate now teaching in a Harambee school in Kenya, feels there is too much emphasis on learning by heart. “They spend too much of their effort on memorizing... not enough on applied thinking,” she says in a letter to a Clinton, N.C. newspaper. She does feel, however, that students are particularly motivated and prepared.

Thomas Bates '82, who has been in Africa four months now, appears from a recent letter to be having a very enjoyable time despite “minor disadvantages” such as no electricity and a far from efficient telephone system. “The area is extremely beautiful, the climate is perfect (60-80 degrees year-round), the Kikuyu people are wonderfully warm and generous, and the atmosphere of the village and surrounding areas is generally positive and pleasurable,” he writes. He is “the only white member on a staff of eight. Any responsibilities are in the area of teaching only... but my input and suggestions are welcomed.”

Obtaining and maintaining work permits have caused some problems in recent years. However, since the schools are church-linked, associations such as the Presbyterian or Catholic Church can usually help out by persuading the authorities that Davidson students are the only ones qualified for the posts.

Clearly, this is not a project for the timid or inhibited; but for those prepared to brave having to walk to the river for water, live off maize, corn, and beans, and have an inefficient sanitary system, the experience and rewards are measureless.

Other seniors planning to go to Kenya this year are Dave Burns, Gary McDonald, Mike Mason, Walt Dean, Chuck Hasty, and Cathy Cantwell. Further information on the Kenya Connection is available from Careers Office director Ken Wood in the basement of the Union.

Rape Seminar Held

By LEE WHITE

Mecklenburg Police officer Jamie Ballard gave a presentation on rape prevention during a two-hour program sponsored by the Women’s Concerns Committee Wednesday night in the Morrison Room. Ballard described security measures to help ensure safety in the car, when walking, and at home. Being alert to dangerous situations can help decrease one’s chances of being raped, she said.

She encouraged the audience to think about their reaction in case of rape. Ballard stressed the importance of keeping in control and remaining calm. She suggested stalling the rapist and trying to communicate with him.

In case of rape, the first thing to do is to seek medical attention. Ballard recommended reporting the rape, claiming that the rapist will usually continue to rape unless he is caught. To help a victim, the Mecklenburg County Rape Crisis Center provides immediate support during the initial procedures of seeking medical help and reporting the rape.

Officer Ballard demonstrated some simple self-defense techniques anyone could use. She showed various methods of escaping from an assailant’s grasp and pointed out vulnerable areas of the body. The object of this type of resistance is simply to inflict pain on the rapist, thus enabling the victim to escape.

Officer Ballard concluded her presentation by expressing her gratitude to the audience of 70 for being so attentive.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Barber for Men and Women

You name it — we’ll style it

127 North Main Street
Davidson