18 Friday, March 18, 1983  
THE DAVIDSONIAN  
Founded 1917  
Ann Meador, Editor  
David Resnik, Executive Editor  

Welcome

Welcome to the Davidsonian. This is our first issue as the new editors and we would like to reflect on some of our goals before the newspaper overwhelms us. Budgeting restraints will prevent us from publishing more than once a week, printing four-color deluxe photos, or sending reporters to cover national issues. But our human resources are virtually unlimited. It is here that we have the most hope for progress: We would like to improve the depth and quality of our news coverage by providing interesting and informed reporting on the most important issues that affect our campus. To achieve this goal, we must train writers in the craft of journalism. We would also like to improve the quality of our layout, striving for a cleaner, tighter, more professional look. In order to achieve this goal, we must train new staff members in the art of layout. In short, our success depends on you. Every person that joins our staff brings us closer to our goal. Our predecessor inherited only a handful of staff members, who had limited experience, and built the foundation upon which our efforts rest. It is now our task to continue where he left off.

Humes Affair is Serious

The ugliness is behind us. After several months of arguing and haggling about the future of the Humanities program, we have finally initiated a "spirit of genuine charity toward one another," as College President Sam Spencer says in his letter of explanation of the Humes controversy. The Humanities staff has formed a steering committee to study the program. It is sending out surveys to faculty, staff, and Humanities students that ask for an appraisal of the program in terms of its strengths, weaknesses, and areas of possible improvement. More than thirty percent of the students and twenty percent of the faculty participate in the program at some time or another during their tenure at Davidson. Many people consider the Humanities program as an aspect of education that is unique to our school. Consequently, any revision of the program becomes a sensitive issue. Since so many of us care about the welfare of the Humanities program, we must all play an active role in its evaluation. The Humanities staff has designed the steering committee to fulfill this mandate, and we are particularly qualified to help them. As students, we offer a valuable perspective they must consider in any revision. We are the ones who listen to the lectures, we are the ones who read the books, we are the ones that discuss the issues. But our evaluation of the program must be serious and critical; our commitment to the process must be sincere. We have let other issues, such as the switch to semesters and the dropping of ICES student evaluation forms, go by without thorough consideration. We should not neglect the Humanities evaluation in the same way. The students who receive evaluation forms must put serious thought into their appraisal. Other interested students should talk to their professors. We also encourage students to discuss the issue among themselves. A meaningful evaluation depends on our full commitment. The more we discuss this issue, the closer we...will come to the truth. This is our chance to help the school and to help ourselves. Let’s not blow it.

The Davidsonian

AS YOU KNOW, TONY IS NOT SMART OR SEXY. WE EXTEND OUR VERY BEST REGARDS. WE HAD ALL THE UNDESIRABLES SENT AWAY, CLOSED ALL COURT ORDER MATTERS. HERE'S OUR LIST OF FUN AND EXCITING FESTIVITIES: ALTERNATIVE BEVERAGE PARTY FOR THE IMPORTED; BEAUTIFUL SPIRIT; FIVE MINUTE POETRY READING WITH OATHS; THE END OF MUSIC; TORO DISTE AND POTATO RACE; RACE POST PROGRAM.

LETTERS

Racial Violence in South Africa

To The Editor:

For many in Charlotte, the recent attack on Lesotho by South African troops was just another headline reflecting the violence which fills the world. For me, the news struck closer to home. Among the 42 people murdered was a man I had worked with and known well during the three years I lived in Lesotho. Zola Nqini was a quiet, easy-going man who never grew angry even in the most tense situations. He had spent five years in South Africa’s notorious Robben Island prison for attempting to unionize Black workers. Other prisoners have told me that Zola was a peacemaker, always calming the differences among factions in the prison population. As a refugee in Lesotho, Zola served as marketing officer in a project which trained Lesotho women in hand-spinning mohair yarn. He recently left that project to work with the UN-sponsored refugee program in Lesotho.

To think of South African troops bursting into his house at 1 a.m. on December 9 and machine-gunning him to death tears me apart. The South Africans called him a “terrorist,” the international papers more accurately called him the “representative of the African National Congress in Lesotho,” but to me he was simply a man to respect, a man who stood up for justice, a friend. But violence and South Africa are synonymous. South Africa terrorizes over 80 percent of its population every day. South Africa’s pass laws destroy Black families, and its homelands policy kills Black children through malnutrition. The list goes on and on.

My wife and I were married in the mountains of Lesotho by a New Zealand Anglican priest who lost his hand to a South African parcel bomb. Like Zola Ngini, Father John Osmers also stands up for the principles of truth and justice. Scraping the puddle of John’s blood off the floor and literally picking his fingers off the wall and from the back of the toilet tank on that July day in 1979, I figured that South Africa’s madness could not go on for much longer. But it has, and until the United States and other western countries stop looking at their multinationals’ balance sheets and stand up for what is right, more Zola Nginis will die. That blood is on all our hands. Even in Charlotte, the North Carolina National Bank is a heavy lender to South Africa. These loans and loans from other US banks are the key support for South Africa’s apartheid governmental structure. The sad part is that even NCNB officials think they are helping the situation by assisting “progressive” firms in South Africa. They, like the U.S. government, are fooling themselves. Just ask Zola Ngini.

Monroe Gilmour Jr. '68