10 Friday, September 16, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Orientation From A Freshman’s Viewpoint

By WAYNE MAGRUDER

The word “orientation” immediately suggests encounter, confrontation, and nerves. Davidson’s Freshman Orientation felt that way for me and, I assume,
for over three hundred other of my classmates. I comforted myself with the thought that Orientation would probably be one
of the most difficult hurdles I'd have to leap during my career here. I’m sure some of the upperclassmen would
disagree as they have, no doubt, seen deeper waters since their orientation. Still, a trial it is.

My first encounter was made somewhat easier than I had anticipated. A pretty upperclass woman stood at the entrance to
the Student Union and offered all of us our “first Davidson kiss.” I took her literally, but before I could
fulfill my intention she held up a chocolate kiss between herself and me. I only hope the rest of Davidson
women don’t play the same game.

Armed with I.D., meal ticket, and the dreaded name tag, I followed the crowd to Belk Dormitory to face the
hardest part—meeting the roommate. Boy, what a dramatic production that was. After the stock question and answer session, there was
a long lull in the conversation interrupted only by the necessities of arranging the room.

Davidson’s Orientation is rather unique in that it is an orientation for parents as well. Mine were delighted—too delighted for
my taste—at the prospect of meeting all my future professors and colleagues. They treated the affair as an opportunity to
find out who knows whom. You know the game—while you stand there figuring out where to put your hands, Mother
and Father are waving down old acquaintances and updating all family news.

Once parents had left the campus at 2:00 p.m. Sunday, things became decidedly more informal. Shirt tails and flip flops
came out and everyone settled into a routine of meetings, mixers, and even the movie MASH to provide a break.
Perhaps the most impressive item on the agenda for me was the dinner with the faculty advisor Sunday afternoon. Not
only was it a bit of relaxation—like the eye of a hurricane—but it also provided some informal moments for advisor
and advisees to find out about each other without pretension.

The talent show the following Thursday gave the rest of the school a chance to see some freshmen in action.
I was impressed with our variety: ventriloquist, guitarists, harmonica player, singers, imitations of certain bands and singers, pianists, fashion show
featuring the “lovely” curtains of Richardson, the martial arts, and Dean Will Terry in top form.

The Saturday regatta was a smashing success according to most freshmen. With ingenuity and spirit, each hall had made its
own raft for a race in Lake Norman. The objects were social (pre-race) and aggressive (during race). “I really got
into wrecking other people’s boats,” related an otherwise calm competitor to me. Second Center (my hall, I might add) snatched
the victory for the guys’ competition, while Fourth Richardson took the girls’ prize. I did have one skeptic opinion from
a shy-looking soul on the bank after the race. “I’m sure it was fun, but I think I had more
fun watching from the shore.”

For us freshmen who, late to bed and early to rise, the rigors of meeting so many “people, places and
faces,” was intoxicating and laborious. But, in the end, it proved to be an invigorating experience and certainly got us
off to the right start. At least, now we don’t have to wear those name tags any more.

Some Things Never Change

Some things never change: a fresh batch of freshmen filled with false hopes of a fun-filled four years at D.C...
a first night back party at the SAE house (more on that later) and an opening game football loss to
Wofford. Oh to be back again!

Upon our arrival to campus while unsuspectingly strolling past Chambers, we witnessed a near reenactment of “The Who’s” Cincinnati affair.
It seems a thundering herd of freshmen nearly stampeded us on their way to one or another of those worthless
orientation functions. What we cannot understand is why these kids seem incapable of traveling in groups of fewer than twenty.

But let’s not spend time dithering about what will never change; let’s get to the point: freshmen, through this column
we are at your service. We've been there. We know that you're basically lost for an answer. Hey, you're new
. . . and we know it. So listen up.

First, we need to help you bone up on your campus conduct. Go to the Fiji party the other night?
Uh oh. That’s a black mark against you in Will and Sue’s book. Didn’t your hall counselors warn you? Those
guys do DRUGS!! As the old saying goes, the road to hell is paved with Fijis. OK, then here’s Helpful
Hint 1: D.C.F. Small Group meetings are much better to attend than Fiji parties. Gotta keep that 4.0 GPA, ya
know?

Second, for you Out Of Staters who haven't heard yet, there'll be no drinking after October 1. It seems the
N.C. legislature, in its infinite wisdom, has decided to up the legal drinking age. This of course means the 900
Room is strictly off limits, as Will gleefully remarked the other day. But don’t sweat it—for the most part you'll
be missing absolutely nothing.
