Friday, December 7, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Joe Park

The Union President is essentially responsible for coordinating the activities of the Union Board. Along with the Social and Co-curricular Vice-presidents, he is responsible for selecting committee chairmen, delegating certain responsibilities, and organizing activities. However, the president’s role is more than strictly business. In a sense, the president is also responsible for the image of the Union. Although the Union is a student-run organization which provides services and activities that benefit the entire college community, most students do not seem to be aware of the Union’s actual and potential value. The president should then work to promote a greater awareness of the social and cultural experiences that the Union has to offer. If the president can make the Union more appealing, more students are likely to get involved in the Union. Greater student involvement should be a major goal of the president. Union implies a sense of togetherness. The Union President must ensure that the members of the Union Board

Mary Griffin and Hunter Roddey

We are two juniors, Mary Griffin and Hunter Roddey, who are running for freshmen advisors with more in mind than being freshmen for a third year (a scary thought!) or getting free food from the Dean’s office. We feel we have acquired the necessary administrative experience from serving as treasurer of an eating house, on the Patterson Court Council (Mary), J.V. club tennis president, and rescue squad secretary (Hunter). Much more importantly, we are both current hall counselors and have a curious affection for freshmen. We remember what it is like to be freshmen, and would like to help make next year’s “freshman experience” reach its potential. In the role of freshmen advisors, we would hope to continue the good work done by Rob Spaugh and Katie Dagenhart this year. One of our primary goals would be to select the best hall counselors, as fairly and non-politically as possible. We see the importance of scheduling the hall counselor selection process early enough so that it will not conflict with exams, as it sometimes has in the past. We look forward to next year’s freshmen class and hope to be a part of planning their orientation. Our ultimate goal for orientation would be a proper introduction to Davidson without a frenzied pace. As freshman advisors, we would continue the precedent of regular hall counselor gatherings. We would seek to schedule enough meetings to help the hall counselors develop a self-support group, without overburdening their often hectic days. We cite two particular problems for the freshman class. Facing the continuing ambiguity of the self-selection process, we would work closely with the Self-Selection Committee, the Patterson Court Council, and the hall counselors, to ease the difficulty for freshmen. Also, we would hope to clarify the relationship of the new drinking law to the freshman class. We want the class of ’88 to know where they stand.

Harding Erwin and Paige Marsh

As active hall counselors, we are able to evaluate the hall counselor program. As freshman advisors, we would like to improve upon the program by making changes where we see they are needed. We commend the present freshmen advisors on their excellent job in keeping us informed and organizing meetings, and relevant speaker presentations, in addition to serving as an essential source for advice and assistance. We would like to continue the good work that Katie and Rob have done. Some changes that we would like to see are:
1) An extension of the hall counselor training program to at least that of the resident advisors, which consists of a more thorough examination of social problems (such as eating disorders and drinking problems), first aid, and leadership roles.
2) To inform the hall counselors earlier (than two weeks before we arrive) and provide more information about the freshmen who will be on their hall in order to help them better prepare for the coming year.
3) An increase in the relationships between the freshmen and their academic advisors.
4) To involve the freshman football players during the orientation week.
5) To change the name of freshman advisors to hall counselor advisors — as the role is to advise the hall counselors more than it is to advise the freshmen.

Freshmen advisor’s responsibilities include:
1) helping to select the hall counselors,
2) working closely with the deanof students office, 3) organizing training programs for the hall counselors, 4) aiding in the planning of freshman orientation, 5) coordinating the freshman orientation, 6) coordinating the freshman council selection and activities, 7) evaluating the hall counselor program and implementing changes when necessary, and 8) assisting the hall counselors by providing advice based on their experiences as hall counselors. We feel that the hall counselor program is very important in assisting the freshmen in making that transition from home to college. We plan to work hard to meet the full potential of the program. Please vote for us on Tuesday, December 13.

Union Vice-President Mike Jester

1. I feel that one particular fact helps qualify me for vice-president of the social council, and that is my position on the union tech crew. I am not only a member but happen to do all the scheduling for the tech crew. As a result, I have become familiar with many of the union board members and know many of the activities and events for which the union board is responsible. Another fact that I feel qualifies me for this position is that I spend a great deal of time in the union and generally know what is going on at all times.

2. If elected, one thing I hope to accomplish is the increase of participation at union social events. As I have worked on the tech crew this year, I have seen how low attendance usually is at the shows scheduled by the intimate performances committee on Friday and Saturday nights. I think it is a very sad state of affairs because many of these performers have been, and I am sure will continue to be, quite good. I feel that as Social Vice-president, it would be my responsibility to determine ways to bring in more people to performances and to the union as a whole, because a large amount of the fees paid by a student to attend Davidson goes to the union, and it is a shame for those students who rarely enter the union not to be getting their money’s worth.

3. I feel that the role of vice-president is to be a student advisor to the committees of the social council, to help each committee when and if it needs help, to help coordinate the activities of the social council committees, and finally to be the main coordinator for the big weekends, homecoming, midwinters, and spring frolics.

Ross Hunter

The social half of the union provides several services to the college community. It is primarily a source of entertainment and diversion which attempts to uphold the ideals of creativity, quality, and a degree of wholesomeness. The union strives to sponsor events which appeal to a large portion of the students. This ambition is important because interaction among various social groups increases campus unity. Also, all students should have access to alternatives to spending all day and all night in the library. The union officers are responsible for ensuring that the committees of the union remain productive. To achieve this end, the officers recruit and select willing and responsible committee chairmen. Recruiting may be the most important part of the job since the chairmen carry much of the load of initiating, coordinating, and scheduling the activities of the union. Once the board is selected, the Social Vice-president tries to keep the committees active, innovative, responsive to students, and on budget. He also coordinates many of the activities for big weekends. I feel that there are two main areas which need to be more heavily stressed. First, the activities, particularly on big weekends, should be targeted and promoted for a larger number of students. Second, the Union officers should attempt to build more interest in holding Union Board positions. I served on the Union Board (last year) as Games Committee Chairman and feel prepared for this job.