6 Friday, April 8, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Pies Assassinate
By THURSTON HATCHER

The other day as I walked out of class, I suddenly knew it was spring. No, the romantic couples in the hallway didn’t tell me. Neither did the cloudy skies outside. It was something more — it was a feeling that came over me. It was paranoia. The Pie Assassins are back in full form this year, and the Phi Delt pledge with the black wig on his head told me so. Every time I see a suspicious-looking character I feel certain he has a pie to throw right at me. This time he didn’t, but I’m staying inside and locking my door just in case.

No one has shelled out a dollar to hit me yet, but seventy other people have invested in seeing their distant friends or close enemies get the shaving cream treatment. Phi Delta Theta initiated the Pie Assassin business two years ago as a fundraising idea and it opened with mixed reviews. Students had a great time with it, but the faculty found that it left a bad menthol taste in their mouths, so last year they were eliminated as targets.

The shaving cream assassinations pose one significant problem in that the personal intentions behind them range from friendly revenge to murderous vendettas. Some people give and receive the pies understanding that it’s all fluffy white fun. But about one-fourth of the victims end up angry or in tears over an incident. A victim of a recent attack at PAX found herself bewildered and confused over the incident. “It was very unexpected and sneaky,” she says. “I wondered who hated me that much.”

An anonymous assassin says that he just doesn’t worry how someone will respond. “I don’t really think about it,” he says. “I just do it and get the hell out of there.” Don’t get the man wrong, though. He does have a sensitive spot in his heart. When asked whether guilt ever rears its head into the business, he responds, “Guilty? Well, sometimes. One time this girl gave us a puppy dog look and we just couldn’t hit her.”

Warner Hall Works Out
By EMMA CARNE

“Make sure the weight is in your thighs, not your hands.”
“Don’t lock your knees!”

This is Warner Hall at 6:45 on Monday, Wednesday, or Friday evening. Fleetwood Mac replaces the more usual sounds of Styx and Michael Jackson, and the living room is filled with young women bending, stretching, and flexing under the instruction of sophomore Laura Taft.

Taft started muscle-toning classes in Warner Hall winter term, when other forms of exercise were strictly limited. “It’s less popular now that the weather is better and people can go outdoors more,” she explained; even so, about 25 girls in tracksuits, shorts, legwarmers, or tights regularly attend the classes held three times a week in the thickly carpeted living room in the newest Patterson Court eating house.

Taft attended classes last summer and has the routines well in hand. She opens with fairly gentle warming-up exercises, giving frequent advice about posture and technique. As the workout progresses, the physical fitness and flexibility of each girl is severely tested. For women who cannot or prefer not to run, swim, or participate in varsity sports, this provides an excellent way to keep fit; even so, an hour of such grueling work straight after dinner may well seem a daunting prospect. Most Warner Hall members who do not take part appear to view the activities of the energetic minority with amused indifference.

Taft has received a good response to her program. At $25 for ten weeks many consider the program a bargain, but participants have actually noticed results. Says Taft, “Everybody thinks it’s a real effective program.”

Films
Klaatu and Gort Teach...
BY CRAIG DETWEILER

The Day The Earth Stood Still (1951), Directed by Robert Wise; Starring Michael Rennie, Patricia Neal, Hugh Marlowe, Sam Jaffe, and Gort. *** 1/2

Fans of the mindless, flashy, space wars in recent cinema will not be interested in The Day The Earth Stood Still. Those intrigued by thought-provoking, sincere, and probable science fiction should be sure to catch this Wednesday’s film. Robert Wise’s The Day The Earth Stood Still raises serious questions about man’s responsibility and accountability toward the weapons he creates. Made dur-At the height of Cold War tension in 1951, "The Day The Earth Stood Still" is extremely relevant given the current nuclear arms buildup. An alien visitor, Klaatu, and his trusty robot, Gort, come from outer space to deliver a prophetic warning. Concerned about man’s bombs destroying their own peaceful planet, Klaatu (Michael Rennie) and Gort (Lock Martin) land in Washington, D.C. to call the earth’s attention to the hostile arms race. Rather than staging a sit-in or a demonstration, Klaatu offers a quiet message to man about the need for peace. With qualities similar to Christ, Klaatu attempts to communicate love and brotherhood among men, and the harsh treatment Klaatu receives parallels the rejection that Christ would experience if he were to come today. World leaders convene and discuss what should be done about the questions Klaatu raises but ultimately rely upon the military to deal with the visitors. 

"The Day The Earth Stood Still" is alarming in its realism and relevance to modern society; one readily questions whether the attitudes in the Kremlin and the White House differ any from the tunnel vision displayed by the leaders in the film. Simple in its technical effects, "The Day the Earth Stood Still" is bolstered by stirring, human performances. Advanced for its period, the film pales in comparison to modern cinema’s spaceships and piloting creatures. Direction is clear and fast-paced because it centers around the drama of the story rather than the pyrotechnics. One does not wait for overwhelming space battles, but the reactions of humans to a stressful situation. Michael Rennie is superb as the humane extra-terrestrial. His cool, steady performance buoys the frantic, stretched acting of his supporting players. Patricia Neal would appear ridiculous if Rennie did not add a stable presence to her hysteria. Neal’s “Klaatu barada nikto” scene is a classic because of her difficulty in delivering silly lines. Most lovable and memorable of all the characters is old ironside, the robot Gort. Gort reacts to the absurdity of the guns and violence that surrounds him in a manner many would like to — he simply eliminates them. With clearly defined heroes and villains, "The Day The Earth Stood Still" tugs at the viewer’s emotions. We can learn much from this crude work of art today, even if it is over thirty years old. With the danger of nuclear annihilation increasing daily, we should stand still for a day to recognize the massive problem before us.

By Shane

---

Time Bandits: a Brave

By MATT MORRIS

"Time Bandits" (1982) Produced by George Harrison, directed by Terry Gilliam; starring David Warner, John Cleese, Michael Palin, Shelly Duvall, and Graham Chapman. Showings: 8:00 and 10:30, $1.50. Rating: *** 1/2

Whenever a new film is released most critics tend to push it into a certain genre and then attack or praise the movie for how well it follows “the rules” of that particular category. Some movies, like "Citizen Kane," defy any particular style and make new rules while gleefully destroying the old standards. "Time Bandits," a dazzling, often dizzy, collage of all genres from science fiction to Jonathan Swift, is no "Kane" but one can’t help admire its joyfully innovative imagination and brave steps into the unknown (and perhaps uncommercial) world of fantasy/satire/social commentary.

Produced by George Harrison, who certainly has the bread to dive into endeavors like this, "Time Bandits" is the story of a young English lad who escapes ultra-material, ultra-boring Earth and, with the help of six time-traveling dwarves, realizes his wildest dreams. Along this psychotic yellow brick road, our hero meets up with such luminaries as Napoleon (Ian Holm), Robin Hood (John Cleese), and even God himself (Sir Ralph Richardson). The film slides wildly from comedy to drama (of a sort) reaching new heights of hilarity with Monty Python luminary John Cleese and moments of real compassion by a beautifully restrained Sean Connery as Agamemnon. "Time Bandits’" conclusion is sheer genius and alone makes the entire trip worthwhile.

Parts of "Time Bandits," particularly the Napoleon sequence, don’t work at all, and the Dwarves get to be a bit much after a while, but I encourage the viewer to overlook their faults and enjoy "Time Bandits" for what it is: a delightfully experimental movie with a real sensibility. Few films these days can say that.