The Davidsonian/Friday, September 30, 1983

Davidson Sputters In 14-7 Loss To Newberry
By SCOTT HUIE

Last Saturday, in a battle of the defenses, the Wildcat football team fell to NAIA foe Newberry 14-7 as the team could muster only 143 drowsy yards in total offense. Disappointment understates the sentiment expressed by the Cats after the game, for it was one of those rare outings where Davidson was perhaps favored to win. Various team spokesmen issued state-of-the-team addresses.

Coach Ed Farrell: “After making progress the first two weeks, we made a giant step backwards in the Newberry game. Talent-wise the two teams were relatively equal, but their defense dominated our offense. That was the difference.

“Overall, the problem is not attitude. Even though sometimes we may not expect to win, the desire and commitment are still there. What we need to do now is put the Newberry game behind us and concentrate on each person working on better execution. The key thing we have to do is to think positive, even against the members of the ol’ Southern Conference.”

From The Locker Room
Carolina Complex
By STEVE SOUD

Tuesday mornings at the breakfast table are always an anxious time. I frantically scan the expanse of the Commons in a desperate search for the morning’s most priceless commodity: the newspaper. Tearing it from someone else’s eager grasp, I fling the pages open to the SPORTS section. There, in wondrous glow, I behold the AP Top Twenty. Recently, however, my stomach nauseatedly regrets my eyes’ findings. Disgustingly nestled in a tiny niche near the top of the column is the university of north carolina. I use lower case letters because schools with such schedules merit no more.

If valor has anything to do with honor, then Dick Crum, his team, and above all his scheduling henchmen, needn't fret over being labelled honorable on Saturday afternoons. Over the past few years the university has fed itself a steady diet of woebegottens pawned off as serious competition. Occasionally someone goofs and throws in a heavyweight, but they don’t repeat those mistakes. (What was that Oklahoma score?) In fact, if it weren’t for the ACC games they’re bound to play, I’m not sure Davidson wouldn’t be on the heels’ menu. Someone used to schedule Boston College, but as soon as the War Eagles became a contender they vanished from the unc schedule.

This year the tar heel schedule has reached a new low in an already abysmal tradition. Last Saturday they toyed with William and Mary, 51-20. You remember I-AA William and Mary — it wasn’t so long ago that they were progress the first two weeks, we made a giant step backwards in the Newberry game. Talent-wise the two teams were relatively equal, but their defense dominated our offense. That was the difference.

“Overall, the problem is not attitude. Even though sometimes we may not expect to win, the desire and commitment are still there. What we need to do now is put the Newberry game behind us and concentrate on each person working on better execution. The key thing we have to do is to think positive, even against the members of the ol’ Southern Conference.”

Tomorrow those mighty heels take on Georgia Tech. You remember GT — it wasn’t so long ago that Furman was beating them at Grant Field in Atlanta. That name Furman should ring a bell for Wildcat fans. The Cats take on Furman for homecoming. It appears that Furman would be better fare for north carolina than Georgia Tech, yet Davidson plays Furman. To anyone knowledgeable about I-AA football, Davidson’s schedule resembles a holiday in Cambodia. The loss last Saturday to Lafayette is ingested more easily when one considers the Leopards are Top Twenty, as is James Madison. Furman is ranked fifth in the I-AA poll. (When was the last time a fifth-ranked team came to Kenan Stadium for homecoming?) S.C. State, whom you wistfully fet, is the top-ranked team in I-AA. Finally, Wofford, to whom the Cats succumbed 21-7, is ranked in the NAIA Top Ten. The average I-AA team offers 60 scholarships; Davidson none. Meanwhile, our friends cross-state, whose schedule resembles a menu, gain top five status. Yes, they’ll play Maryland and Clemson, but I submit that’s more out of obligation than choice.

But what of Davidson? They’re left to suffer the slings and arrows of an outrageous schedule while the Trustees decide whether they’re to be or not to be. For the Wildcats to go 5-5 would be a Herculean effort. So don’t get so down on them. But for the time being, my Tuesday breakfasts are ruined.

Athlete Of The Week
Sean Austin, this week’s Athlete of theWeek, scored the winning goal in each of the two victories for the Wildcat soccer team this past weekend. His goal against Richmond gave the Cats a 1-0 win. He also led the team to a 3-0 victory over Hampden-Sydney, scoring what proved to be the winning goal. Then against UNC-C, Austin scored the tying goal which enabled the Wildcats to win the overtime shootout and advance in the tournament play. Austin scored his fourth goal in as many games last night against Winthrop in the team’s dramatic 2-0 win over Winthrop in overtime. Austin is a sophomore from Atlanta, Georgia.

Quarterback Keith Martin: “Too many mistakes and mental breakdowns — that’s what’s killing us. It’s like I’m not worried about completing the pass, but more like not throwing the interception. And I feel the whole team is in this same rut of playing tentative football. We just got to get that confidence back.”

Fullback Horace Manor: “We’re the best 0-3 team around.” A dubious distinction, indeed, particularly after this loss. Note the statistics: First downs, 6; yardage rushing, 79 (on 40 carries); yardage passing, 64. Maybe the offense should treat the defense to pizzas at the Peregrine House. After all, the defense even scored the touchdown. Trailing by six in the third quarter, Martin marched the Cats to the Newberry 2. On a fourth-and-one Martin botched the handoff and Newberry gained possession. But two plays later, Sophomore cornerback Tony Smith recovered an Indian fumble in the endzone for the score. Davidson’s lead was short-lived, however, as Newberry scored a final touchdown midway through the fourth quarter to end the scoring.

Coming off a jaw injury, free safety Doug Neil dominated play defensively with 10 tackles before falling to a shoulder injury midway through the fourth quarter. So go Davidson’s fortunes this year. Defensive end Jerry Grubba contributed nine tackles. Said Martin: “Now, more than ever, we have to pull together as a unit to get back to the winning track.” The task will be doubly difficult as tomorrow the Cats travel to Harrisonburg, Virginia to play James Madison (2-1), who last year defeated Davidson 35-7. The Dukes are ranked 20th in the nation, and according to Farrell, “should be much higher.” Two weeks ago, a last-second interception kept Madison from upsetting undefeated Virginia. The Wildcats’ troubled special teams will be tested by one of the most electrifying return men in the game, Madison’s Gary Clark. In the Virginia game alone he returned two 90-yard punts for touchdowns. Clark doubles as a wide receiver and last week scored four touchdowns, three on long passes. Said Farrell, “James Madison is a very talented football team, right up there with Furman and South Carolina State.” Need I say more?

Huie’s Prediction: James Madison 38; Davidson 14

Carroll Overton

Team huddles during cloudy flickerball practice

Flickerball Previews

Vociferously Continued

Best of the Rest: Flickerball “pundits around the world have been vociferously” arguing over which flickerball team will emerge as number one for the 1983 fall season. With the demise of the SAE flickerball dynasty due to paternity suits and graduation, just about anybody could win it all this year (except, of course, for The Vegetables). The two frontrunners at this point in the season appear to be KA Gold and Rissie and Lillie Mae.

KA Gold. This band of Southern gents may well take the title. With a potent defense led by superfast pass rusher David Dendy, the Gold has a better than even shot at shutting out Ed’s Wildcats. Scott Huie leads the offensive attack at tailback, running the option about as well as J.C. Watts.

Rissie and Lillie Mae. This team of SAEs is very good.

The Barracudas. An up-and-coming female flickerball team are the Barracudas. This team of sophomores has taken the rare combination of beauty, brains, and brawn to form a legitimate successor to the Filthy Amazons.

Surprise Upset: The Vegetables were narrowly edged 46-0.

Top Five: 1) KA Gold, 2) Rissie and Lillie Mae, 3) Cheddarmen, 4) Moral Hex, 5) Russian Airspace.

Women: 1) Filthy Amazons, 2) Penthouse Babes, 3) Barracudas, 4) Buster’s Lusters, 5) Warner Hall.

Mann, Jeff, and his thesaurus.