6 Friday, October 21, 1983 / The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Huie Bums Around With The Fixx

By IDA PHILLIPS

Many people only come near a big rock band by sweating it out in the back row of a packed
concert hall — 100 yards from the stage. Unlike these concertgoers, junior Scott Huie has more to show than just
a ticket stub and ringing ears. This summer Huie got first-hand experience in the music business by acting as assistant
merchandising tour director for The Fixx.

According to Huie, his job was “really hard work.” For 80 hours a week, he was in charge of transporting
and distributing thousands of concert t-shirts, hats, buttons, and other concert paraphernalia. Huie and his partner followed the band in
their truck to five cities every week through 40 different states and Canada, Puerto Rico, and Trinidad. At each concert,
the pair either hustled the goods themselves or supervised other vendors.

Several aspects of the job made Huie’s work hectic. “A lot of stress was involved because my job contained direct
cash flow. After each show I carried our money in a briefcase.” Their earnings often totaled near $12,000. The long
hours also made the work strenuous. “Sometimes we’d leave the hall about three in the morning and hit the road
again. So you slept when you could.” One night Huie fell asleep at the wheel on the way to Atlanta,
and his truck hit a median and flipped over. No one was injured, and Huie brushed the accident off as
“an example of how non-stop the job was.”

In spite of the hectic pace of his work, Huie enjoyed being in on the rock-and-roll scene. “I wouldn’t trade
my experience for anything. Not only did I make a lot of money but I saw a whole new subculture.
Most people just know about bands from hearsay and magazines. But I got to be part of the rock-and-roll subculture.
For instance, I learned about drugs and groupies. And yes, there is a lot of drug usage in the rock-and-roll
business.”

When Huie was not working, he bummed around with everyone on the tour: the management, the roadies, and the band.
“When I wasn’t working, I'd go backstage and eat lobster or steak or whatever food they had,” he said. After
The Fixx toured with A Flock of Seagulls for nine weeks, the band went solo. After this, Huie stopped driving
the truck and moved onto the tour bus with the band members. Evidently, he blended in well with the group.
“I ate with them, slept with them... Laughing, Huie continued, “Yeah, I slept with them. We were like one big
family.”

Although selling t-shirts may not seem a glamorous job, Huie did spend some time in the limelight. For three concerts,
Huie had his own show during the band’s break. “During the show I’d kid around with the roadies, saying that
Fast Scotty should DJ during the breaks. I finally did at Radio City Music Hall in front of a sellout
crowd of 6,000. I’d never been so nervous. But I went out there in my orange tuxedo and grabbed the
mike and the crowd went nuts. We were jamming.”

After such an exciting vacation, Huie was “real close to notcoming back to school.” He did, however, and is here
to stay — unless, of course, he goes to work with Michael Jackson in January. If the opportunity arises, Huie
will surely take the job. “It’s been a big adjustment to get back into the study groove after such a
wild and woolly summer,” he said.

Boo! Pi Kappa Alpha Haunts Kimmel House
By JODY McCLAIN

The Davidson chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha, in conjunction with Budweiser, will hold their second annual haunted house this weekend
to raise money for the North Mecklenburg YMCA. This year’s haunted mansion will be Kimmel House, on Main St., and
will be held on two days, Friday and Saturday. Friday night, the house is open from 7 to 9 p.m.,
and is primarily for young children from the Davidson area. On Saturday night, however, the big Davidson kids get their
turn, from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., complete with kegs (compliments of Auggie Busch) to calm their terrified souls. Admission
to the house will be $1.00 for children and $1.50 for college students and adults.

Last year their efforts raised over $400 for the ‘Y’, and though money is the primary goal, event organizer John
James says there’s more to it. “It’s one of the few events of the year that almost all the brothers
get involved in. We really have a good time putting it on.” According to James, last year’s event went so
well, there was no question as to whether to continue the event. When asked what we can expect in the
way of chills and thrills, James was as elusive as the ghouls that inhabit the haunted house. “If you were
at last year’s, it’ll be somewhat similar to that.” He would elaborate no further, preferring to keep it mysterious.

Reality In A Yellowed Submarine?
By MATT MORRIS

Das Boot (1981-German)
Directed by Wolfgang Petersen.
Starring Jurgen Prochnow, Herbert Bronemeyer, Klaus Wennemann, and Martin May.
RATING: **1/2
Viewer’s guide: Realistic wartime violence.

Even before it has pulled out of the harbor, Das Boot’s course can be mapped, plotted, and concluded. The story
of how a group of “wild, innocent young men” face the realities of war and come out of it all
changed completely (if they come out at all), should go right next to the “hey kids let’s put on a
show” plotline as an all-time cinema cliché. Especially with the recent deluge of disillusioning Vietnam films, Das Boot is a
very safe film. Much of it is also very boring, very painful, and seems to slap the moviegoer in the
face. The real disappointment is that the film could have been an acceptable anti-war film, but it misses (if you’ll
forgive me) the boat on a lot of easy marks — lousy special effects, generally detestable characters, and a “much
ado about nothing” atmosphere.

However, you could do worse things than see Das Boot. Wolfgang Petersen’s direction is extremely meticulous, and, while he over-embraces
the anti-war message, much of it, particularly the fight to stay alive when the sub is on the ocean floor,
is effective. And Jurgen Prochnow works wonders as the vigilant captain, turning in a solid, experienced performance as the solid,
experienced captain. The final image is so captivatingly beautiful that it’s almost worth wading through what precedes it, and Prochnow
continues to look skyward, waiting for a glimmer of hope. No movie could try harder.
