6 Friday, October 7, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Church Reunification Mends 122 Year Split

By ELIZABETH BROOKS

Fourteen years of negotiation ended in June with a march down the streets of Atlanta symbolizing the reunification of the
northern and southern Presbyterian churches that split in 1861. Robert Lamar, minister of the First Church of Albany, N.Y., and
Randy Taylor, Davidson alumnus and minister of Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, co-chaired the joint committee that led the
restoration effort. Taylor said that the recent healing of the break “is a once in a lifetime, once in a
century opportunity to renew church spirit and mission in the late Twentieth century.”

Chairman of the Board of Trustees Fred Stair said that the reunification “gives Davidson an opportunity to have an even
more global and national perspective. It will also enable the College to review relationships with presbyteries in a time of
creative transition.”

Last year, the general assemblies of the northern United Presbyterian Church of the United States of America (UPCUSA), meeting in
Hartford, Conn., and the Southern Presbyterian Church of the United States, meeting in Columbus, Ga., ratified the reunification proposal. The
agreement was then sent to the individual presbyteries of each church for approval. The 151 presbyteries of the UPCUSA passed
the measure unanimously. Fifty-three of the PCUS presbyteries voted approval, supplying the required three-fourths majority. After passing in the presbyteries,
the final vote returned to the two General Assemblies meeting in Atlanta in June. On the 10th, after the final
vote, the members of the long-divided church marched together down the long boulevard leading to the Georgia capitol building.

The march only occurred after 14 long years of study and evaluation by the committee on the issues splitting the
church. The problem was not doctrinal but rather emotional. The anger that divided the Presbyterians during the Civil War only
very slowly died out in their minds. The committee’s job, said Taylor, was to “find the root of the problem
and break down stereotypes.” To this end, they conducted member opinion polls to discover and eliminate the prejudices of the
ministers and parishioners. It was a process Taylor called “racial reconciliation,” in a recent article.

Reunification was defeated three times while the committee operated. The first resolution was defeated by the General Assemblies of both
churches in 1972. The committee, using suggested improvements from those meetings, submitted new proposals in both 1974 and 1978. Both
were similarly rejected.

Prior to the Civil War, the Presbyterian Church had grown steadily since first establishing itself in America during the 17th
century. The southern branch voted itself into existence in 1861 because of an irreconcilable difference in outlook between the two
groups. Several unsuccessful attempts at reunification occurred immediately after the Civil War. Reconstruction and regional bitterness quashed these efforts. Culturally
conditioned problems have haunted the church ever since.

Terry’s Committee

Oral encouragements to a few prospects early and continue the process throughout the fall. Some freshmen were encouraged as early
as three weeks into the year. The committee reasoned that rolling bids would lead to dividing freshman halls quickly into
those “accepted” and those not. Further, they felt that rolling bids discriminate against other houses who could not or would
not start so early. The committee also reasoned that rolling bids prematurely limited the freshmen to one house.

Spencer’s Letter

The committee represents a compromise between former President Samuel Spencer and Terry. Spencer, who originated the self-selection policy (Continued from
page 1) 12 years ago, sent a letter to the Court fraternities’ national headquarters in June. Spencer wrote that “the
purpose of this letter is to request a re-confirmation of [self-selection] in writing. If for any reason you are now
unwilling to reaffirm your agreement, the fraternity may remain as a Campus social organization in accordance with college policy, but
will release for other purposes the Patterson Court house now occupied.” He demanded that fraternities reply to Terry by Sept.
1.

Terry wanted to modify Spencer’s policy because he saw value in the fraternity status quo. He pointed out that “fraternities
have on the whole developed a better quality of fellowship, friendship, and group loyalty than

By ALLISON WILLS

“The main reason we bought it was to get by the new DUI laws,” Phi Gamma Delta President Tom Hissam
said of the fraternity’s newly purchased bus. The Fijis paid the Caldwell A.M.E. Church in Mt. Mourne $500 forthe bus
which previously transported youngsters to Sunday worship. The fraternity painted the bus purple and will use it to carry students
to and from the fraternity’s off-campus house for parties. “All our drivers have the appropriate license, and they don’t drink
until they are through driving,” Hissam said. Hissam said that shortly after midnight last Friday, ABC officers set up two
roadblocks to enforce the newly activated DUI laws. “The bus will solve the problem of people driving drunk and getting
in trouble,” he said. The College administration apparently approves of the idea. “They think it’s a good idea,” Hissam said.
“It solves a lot of the [DUI law] conflicts.” Despite its '53 body and '67 rebuilt engine, the bus (often
referred to as “The Magic Bus” after the song by The Who) “runs great,” and has caused the Fijis no
problems so far. To finance the $1,000 cost of insuring the bus, Fiji plans to rent the bus to other
Davidson fraternities for use in progressive drinking parties. But first, Hissam said, the fraternity plans to make improvements. “Eventually the
latex paint on it will wash off,” he said. “We're gonna sandblast it and paint it right. But it will
still be purple.”

Train Incident Not A Close Call

At the bus’s debut Friday night, a rumor spread that it stalled over the railroad tracks in front of an
oncoming train. The bus “just stopped at a stop sign and the back end overlapped onto the tracks,” Hissam said.
Bus driver Chuck Elyea, who had not been drinking that night, said he had stopped at the Beaty Street stop
sign and was turning right onto Main Street when he heard shouts from persons on the bus. “The people couldn’t
see out very well and they thought the train was a lot closer,” said Hissam. “This one freshman freaked out
and ran off the bus toward the party. Then everybody freaked out.” “A lot of them on the bus had
been drinking, so it scared them all a little,” Elyea said. Hissam stressed that the incident was exaggerated and the
driver of the bus was not intoxicated.

Coeducational eating clubs and fraternities make a significantly more valuable contribution to the social life of the Court. But he
did note that greater numbers of students than ever were “being hurt by rejection by fraternities.” As a result, Terry
recommended that “the right of the individual to make the final decision be preserved.” Also included in this proposal was
the formation of the Committee on Self-Selection. The committee, as Terry saw it, would concentrate on educating the freshmen and
not on antagonizing the fraternities. Some house officers praised Terry’s attempt to satisfy both sides of the question. Phi Delta
Theta President Tom Okel said, “Dean Terry is trying to help the Court system.” Despite Terry's efforts, many fraternity members
resent the committee trying to stop their traditional way of doing business. SAE President Terry Kurtz thought that they would
have a “conflict with the committee. It’s good that they counsel freshmen, but they're stepping out of bounds.” Kurtz felt
that the whole concept behind self-selection was “contrary to the nature of any prideful institution, whether it be Davidson or
a house on Patterson Court.” For now, however, fraternities plan to cooperate with the new regulations to a certain extent.
Kurtz said, “We will follow our traditions, but we will follow the letter of the law.”

AIR FORCE ROTC — HERE ARE THE FACTS

When you're discussing something as important as your future, it’s urgent that you get the straight facts... and that you
understand them. Air Force ROTC can be an important part of your future. We would like to outline some of
the facts and invite you to look into gathering more. It's a fact: the Air Force needs highly-qualified, dedicated officers...
men and women. It’s a fact: we need people in all kinds of educational disciplines. It’s a fact: we’re prepared
to offer financial help to those who can qualify for an Air Force ROTC scholarship. Get together with an AFROTC
representative and discuss the program. We'll give you all the facts. It could be one of the most important talks
you've ever had with anyone about your educational plans.
