Friday, October 28, 1983 / The Davidsonian

The Soviet Union’s Global Plan
Thomas Vaccaro

Since the early 1960s, the Soviet Union has pursued a course in foreign policy which has relied on the use of overt threats and organized terrorism to achieve the ultimate goal of communism: one socialist state covering the entire globe.

In 1962, the Soviets attempted to place nuclear missiles in Cuba. The missiles were intended to hit targets deep within the borders of the United States. When American reconnaissance planes sighted what were clearly Soviet missile installations in the Cuban jungle, the Soviet Union’s integrity was immediately put on the line. Nikita Khrushchev, then leader of the Soviet Union, defended the act by saying that “Everything showed that the United States was preparing to carry out an attack on the Cuban republic using its own armed forces. We stationed rockets on Cuba precisely for the defense of the Cuban revolution and not for an attack on the United States.” Khrushchev’s statement, printed in U.S. News and World Report, Dec. 1962, has been proven a lie. Any mobilization of American forces for an invasion of Cuba would have been large enough so as to be noticed by the American public as well as the rest of the world. If such a threat had existed, the Soviets would have first attempted to solve the crisis through the United Nations; arming Cuba would have been an expensive way to solve the problem.

Even more doubt is brought to Khrushchev’s argument by an unlikely source, Ernesto Guevara, then the top aide in Fidel Castro’s Cuban regime. He revealed that “If the rockets had remained, we would have used all of them and directed them against the very heart of the United States, including New York” (this from the same U.S. News & World Report story).

It is known that the present revolution in Central America is not an internal struggle. The Soviet Union is the main force behind the entire insurgency. American reconnaissance photos have revealed two permanent, Soviet-style bases in Nicaragua to which arms and supplies are sent from Cuba. The bases are equipped with Soviet fighter jets which will be used to aid rebels in neighboring republics. Nicaraguans are being trained in Bulgaria to fly the jets. From the Nicaraguan bases, Soviet arms and supplies are flown to El Salvador where they are air-dropped to Marxist insurgents. I believe that the Soviets plan to strengthen Nicaragua to a point where it can be used to export Marxism to the rest of the region.

Josef Stalin, on whose theories Russian foreign policy is based, believed, during the infancy of communist Russia, that Russia should be strengthened to a point where it was a strong socialist state. From there, Marxism could be exported to the rest of the world. I believe that the Soviets are forming a miniature Stalinist Russia out of Nicaragua. It will be used as a base to spread communism to the rest of Central America.

The Soviets are behind much of the organized terrorism in the world today. They educate and fund revolutions. In Moscow, two institutes train terrorists: The Lenin Institute and the Patrice Lumumba People’s Friendship University. The IRA receives arms from the Soviets through Libya and Czechoslovakia. The PLO is trained at Soviet-supported camps in Algeria, South Yemen, and Syria. The PLO was invited to open an office in Moscow in 1974. According to Brian Crozier, an analyst of foreign affairs, “without Soviet arms, money, training and clandestine support, terrorism would instantly become a manageable proposition.” I believe that the reason for the Soviet’s terror-oriented foreign policy is to fulfill their goal of world domination.many terrorist organizations, including the PLO and IRA. The Soviets train terrorists in Eastern Europe and the Middle East. The terrorists do not have to be communist-affiliated, they must only cause chaos — from which revo- wide communism. Writes Karl Marx: “The communists disdain to conceal their views and aims. They openly declare that their ends can be attained only by the forcible overthrow of all existing social conditions.” It is simply not fair that the innocent people of the world have to live in a world of terror which communists, to a large extent, propel. Soviet menacing in Central America, the arming of Syria, and the shooting down of a Korean airliner are only the latest examples of the Soviet Union’s drive of world-wide terror.

Vaccaro is a freshman from Falmouth, Massachusetts.

An American In London
Thurston Hatcher

Today I became a registered alien, something British law required of me. Some thanks I get for visiting their country: first I get classified as an alien, and then I have to give them twenty-five pounds to make it official. I can deal with being an alien. It’s being American that will give me problems.

Last week I wandered into a grimy café in Coventry, and before I had a chance to order a beefburger and tea from the scowling fat man behind the counter, a drunkard started yelling across the room at me and my traveling companion.

“You’re Americans, aren’t you?” he asked. We confessed that we were. “I thought so,” he said. “I can tell an American by the way he walks, by the way he talks, by the way he smells.” I never knew it was so easy. While he rambled about our Satan cowboy in Washington and the merits of communism, I nibbled on my nasty beefburger and yearned to be eating something else, somewhere else.

It isn’t difficult to understand such negative feelings, even if it is hard to comprehend such rudeness from anyone. The man was obviously quite bitter, and he probably hated America for lack of something else to hate. The problem is that anti-American sentiment clearly exists for reasons ranging from nuclear arms policies to New York tourists. It is true that many Americans come here pretending that England is merely an extension of the United States—another Disneyland, if you will. We Americans assume that because the language is the same, so must be the culture. For that reason we do not prepare to change our own behavior when we are here. This is a different place, and I am only starting now to learn just how different.

Of course, certain word usage differs. Someone said that “Americans and the British have everything in common except the language.” If you’ve spoken to a Rusk Scholar or any other Briton, you learn quickly that the shagging they do over here is rarely done out on a dance floor.

Aside from the language, values and needs vary significantly. The family with whom I stayed for a week is a comfortable middle-class family. Unlike an American family of the same class, they have no clothes-dryer or dishwasher, nor do they have any desire to own either. It is not a question of expense; rather, it is one of priorities. I was surprised that a family of four gets by with just one upstairs bathroom. My English hosts were thoroughly disgusted that my family considers three bathrooms quite nice. It’s all what you're used to.

If you are not familiar with a particular custom or way of life, you cannot try to change it to suit your needs. Instead, you must adapt. I am in their country now so I will play by their rules. So says the American with the Big Mac on his breath.

Hatcher is an English major from Miami, FL spending his junior year at London University.