The Davidsonian / Friday, September 23, 1983

By STEPHEN MANK

Women have never been given a fair shake in rock and roll. Often the women were given a song and a band and told to look pretty. Changes began to occur in the sixties with Joan Baez and Janis Joplin, but as musicians, females were fundamentally ignored. As we entered the 1980s, groups such as Blondie and the Go-Gos offered some hope, but not a lot. The Go-Gos showed that women could have a rollicking good time playing simplistic music accompanied by inane lyrics, but this gave little credence to women rockers on the whole.

Enter the Bangles. The Bangles are a new group that have masterfully merged the mid-sixties sounds of the British invasion groups (the Hollies, the Beatles, and the Rolling Stones) and the L.A. groups with strange chord changes and phase shifting of progressive rock. Their self-titled E.P. acts as a tribute to the old groups as well as an excellent example for new. The Bangles’ largest success is in their tight harmonies reminiscent of the playfully biting guitar of Vicki Peterson dances about madly in sharp contrast to the steady, Lennon-like rhythm guitar of Susanna Hoffs. Drummer Debbi Peterson sounds a lot like a male in the Mamas and the Papas — like “I’m in Line.” The two guitarists exchange licks combatantly in the styles of Chuck Berry and George Harrison while Annette Zilinkas plays tight throbbing bass.

On “Real World,” the Bangles are just as adept at reproducing the cynicism of the Stones as they are at recreating the charm of the Beatles. “How Is the Air Up There” has all the pessimism Keith Richards could muster, plus uncompromising harmonies and a harmonica that would make Jagger and the boys wince. With four incomparable singers and talented musicians, the Bangles have a lot going for them. Their only fault is that they are unwilling to become the gimmick of some money-hungry record company executive. While the Go-Gos are content to have a guitar solo that could be classified as little more than a finger exercise, the Bangles apparently hole themselves up for some time perfecting their art. The Bangles are so far from being the device of higher powers, in fact, that their first record company, Faulty Products, earned its name by folding within weeks of the release of The Bangles.

The most refreshing thing about the Bangles is that women, who have time and time again shown their talents behind the lines as studio musicians, have stepped into the spotlight not with a vendetta but with talent that could stand up to any man’s in their league.

CLASSIFIEDS

THE DAVIDSON OUTING CLUB (in the basement of the Union) has equipment and you may check it out. All you need is a $5.00 deposit which will be returned upon equipment return. PLEASE return the Outing Club equipment you have checked out! We know who you are and will come after you if you don't. Thank you! Davidson Outing Club.

Found: Three silver car keys found behind Vail Commons. Contact the information desk in the College Union.

You TOO can have the prestige and flair of a Peregrine House waiter or waitress — perhaps even a delivery driver. Peregrine House is moving and growing. If you want to be a part of this historical event apply inperson between 2-3 p.m. daily.

ECONOMICS 111, 112, 113 STUDENTS. For sale: TI Business Calculator Analyst with rechargeable batteries and adaptor. Call Ext. 212 or

JUNIORS AND SENIORS EARN OVER $1000 PER MONTH

If you are a math, physics, chemistry or engineering major with a “B” average or better, earn over $1000.00 per month through your junior and senior years... summers included! The Navy’s NUPOC (Nuclear Propulsion Officer) Collegiate Program is looking for qualified individuals. Other benefits include:
***$3000 cash bonus immediately upon acceptance into program
***$22,000 starting salary—$40,000-plus after just four years
***FREE Medical/Dental care and many other TAX FREE benefits
***30 days PAID annual vacation
***1 year graduate level training
***immediate responsibility
***Valuable engineering experience
***Education benefits
***Job security with fast promotions

If you’re interested in finding out more, see the Navy Officer Programs Team, they’ll be on campus 20-22 September at the Student Union. If you can’t make it, send your resume or transcripts to:

ROY SARVIS
U.S. NAVY OFFICER PROGRAMS
1001 Navaho Dr.
Raleigh, NC 27609

Or call 1-800-662-7231 9 am - 3 pm, MON-THURS

The Sting
By MATT MORRIS

The Sting (1973)
Directed by George Roy Hill.
Starring Paul Newman, Robert Redford, Robert Shaw and Charles Durning.
Rating: **1/2

Without question, film director George Roy Hill is talented. Movies like Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, The Great Waldo Pepper, and The World According to Garp will live forever in my memory. Yet with The Sting it appears that not only Hill, but his two stars, Redford and Newman, have taken a breather. The film is far too leisurely paced, self-confident, and hellishly overlong to be the classy entertainment it might have been. The script however, practically demands the viewer’s attention throughout, and The Sting is mild fun in its own frivolity.

The plot concerns two hustlers and their attempts to “sting” (i.e., swindle) a gangland mobster during the Depression. Robert Redford is his usual precocious self and Paul Newman grins a lot. Robert Shaw is the real show, however, doing his best Errol Flynn imitation as the slimy bad guy. As usual with George Hill movies, the atmosphere seems uncannily realistic (albeit slightly claustrophobic) and entirely convincing. Once he has set up the board however, Hill is happy to play with pawns. The Sting won loads of awards (even an Oscar) and made tons of money. Amid all its calculated entertainment is a real charisma — but all things considered, I think it was the audience that got stung.

Welcome, Freshmen, come in and register for a free basket filled with $25 worth of merchandise of your choice
Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St.-Davidson, 28036 N.C
892-7521

come by Room 06 Chambers.

Lost: Two rings. One gold signet with “W" engraved in it and one gold flower-like ring with 3 tiny emeralds. If found, please call Jan at -6099 or see Jan at L305. These rings mean a lot to me!

HELP WANTED — Part time — Interested in Food Preparation. Apply at Old Cornelius Fish Market & Oyster Bar, North Main St., Cornelius, 892-3820. Hours: Wed.-Sat., 11 a.m. til 9 p.m. and Sun., 12-6. See ad in the Union.

A DAY OND STUFF
L'll QD iN BVERY (THE WINNER ! WE SAB wiTH ENTRIES ! AX VS : - MORAL: TE q PERSISTENCE, WHILE NOT ALWAYS OF ITSELF A VIRTUE, FREQUENTLY YIELDS MATERIAL SEZ IF LT twwor‘“s RB You tt N ~~ COME —————