12 Friday, May 6, 1983 / The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Men's Tennis Takes Third
By TIM McGAUGHEY

The Davidson Men’s Tennis Team took third place in the Southern Conference Tournament last weekend. The Cats scored 55 points
to trail champion University of Tennessee-Chattanooga with 61 points and runner-up Furman with 59 points. The team also reversed regular
season losses to Citadel and Appalachian State. The Citadel finished with 46 points and ASU scored 42 points. Marshall finished
with 17, VMI with 14, and Western Carolina scored 4 points.

The Southern Conference coaches named Davidson Tennis Coach Jeff Frank Conference Coach of the Year. The team’s exciting play in
the tournament boosted Frank’s nomination for the award. He previously won the award in 1975. He is also the only
coach in the last decade to win the award without winning the Conference championship.

“The whole team played well in both singles and doubles matches. During the tournament they exceeded my expectations,” said Frank.
The team’s Most Valuable Player, sophomore Sedge Gray, won the number two singles flight, while the doubles team of Victor
Taylor and Shep Robinson took the number 3 doubles flight. Hall and Taylor reached the finals of the number 4
and number 6 singles, respectively.

“The team peaked at the right time. Everyone played as well in the tournament as they have all season,” said
Frank.

Prospects for next year are also extremely bright, according to Frank. The number 2 and number 9 North Carolina high
school players have signed letters of intent to come to Davidson. The team will lose only one of its top
six players (Taylor) while UTC loses three of their top six and Furman graduates four of their top six.

Baseball Team Explodes
2 wins, 2 losses
By BOB BARNES

Wednesday was a day of firsts. The Davidson baseball team exploded for 18 runs in the second game of a
doubleheader with Gardner Webb to gain its first twinbill sweep of the year. Senior Ed Whitesides pitched a three-hitter for
the team’s first shutout of the year and his first victory. Tim Waters hit his first home run of the
season in the opening game, only to hit his second in game two.

In the first game, Scott Weaver gave up a pair of early runs then proceeded to throw seven innings of
shutout ball. He raised his record to 3-4 with a 3-2 extra-inning win. John Mahoney scored in the ninth as
a result of some fancy baserunning by Philip Gordon (of all people). In addition to his homer, Waters added a
single. Mahoney, Gordon, and Bob Barnes each collected a pair of hits.

The Cats put together 13 runs in the fourth inning to win the second game 18-0. Gordon led the attack
with three hits — including a home run and four RBIs. Waters and Scott Redding added three RBIs apiece, and
Weaver had two hits. Whitesides struck out four in picking up the win.

Saturday, the Wildcats lost a pair of conference games to a hard-hitting Western Carolina team (10-4 and 16-10). Redding “had
a day” in the opener with a perfect 4-4 performance. Mick Smith was close behind him with three hits in
four at-bats. Doug Wiley (1-2) suffered the loss while Kevin Attar pitched well in relief.

In the second game, Western pounded Davidson pitcher Bob Barnes for 13 runs in four innings, and added three more
off reliever Attar. The Cats made the game interesting, however, with ten runs on twelve hits. Mahoney led the team
with three hits, while Waters, Smith, and Jeff McSwain each had two. McSwain’s hits included his first homer — a
solo blast in the fifth.

Davidson closes out their season tomorrow afternoon (Saturday) with a Southern Conference doubleheader against Furman. The Cats will send Barnes
and Redding to the mound against the Paladins. Barnes and fellow seniors Philip Gordon, Ed Whitesides, Al Baldwin, and Kevin
Attar will don the Davidson jerseys for the last time. Good weather is expected and a nice, vocal crowd would
be appreciated.

Women’s Tennis Won’t Go To Tourney
Catherine Smith goes to nationals
BY STEVE SOUD

Tuesday, May 3 was the day bids to the NCAA Division III women’s tennis national championship were doled out, andAs
Coach Caroline Brown confessed, “It was a day of mixed emotions.” Although the 17-5 (18-5 after yesterday’s season-ending win over
Furman) team did not receive an invitation, Brown will accompany number one singles player Catherine Smith to the tournament in
Claremont, California. On the one hand, Brown and her team are upset that they didn’t get a bid, but they
are perhaps more peeved with the selection system itself. The five-member panel selected Mary Washington College, William Patterson College, and
UNC-Greensboro as this region’s representatives. “There’s an understanding that the system needs to be evaluated,” Brown said. “As a coach
and as players, we were very frustrated. We're being evaluated against schools we don’t play and with which we do
not have common opponents. I’m hoping there will be changes.”

Brown is particularly frustrated that her team didn’t have a slot at nearby UNC-G. Next year, however, UNC-G is on
the schedule. On the other hand, Brown and company happily await Smith’s trip to the Golden State. Smith was selected
to compete as one of the top sixteen Division III players in the nation. “An ‘adult’ has to accompany her,
and Caroline Brown has chosen Caroline Brown,” the coach laughed. Claremont, outside of Los Angeles, boasts many distractions. “We are
going to concentrate on tennis,” Brown says, “and enjoy whatever distractions there are after the concentration. I’m taking my Elton
John glasses and we hope to meet Mickey Mouse.”

Should Smith win the tournament — and the hard-surface courts are better suited to her style of play — she
goes on to the Division I tournament the following week in Albuquerque, New Mexico. “I’m hoping that on the long
legs of Catherine Smith, she carries us not only to Claremont but also to Albuquerque,” says Brown. Despite the euphoria
and frustration of the bid situation, the team had to come together and play tennis yesterday, and they did, handing
Furman a 5-4 loss. It was the last home match for three seniors: Smith, Joanna Fleming, and Leesa MacPhail. The
team was excited to close out the season against nemesis Furman, and Brown intends to schedule it as the finale
in the future. Brown explains, “It’s a Southern Conference match, the schools are fairly similar, they are traditionally strong matches,
and, fourth—” Brown admits “—I’m a Furman grad. I'd like to whip the Paladins.” And so they did. It was
4-2 after singles, as Caroline Barclay, Fleming, Sue Hilton, and Eleanor Knobloch won matches. Fleming and doubles partner Tricia Ives
clinched the match at number two doubles.

### Track Season Ends
By STEVE SOUD

The men’s and women’s track teams crossed their last finish lines for the season Saturday. The men’s team competed in
the Southern Conference championships at VMI in Lexington, Va., and the women competed at James Madison University in Harrisonburg, Va.
As for the season, first-year coach Gwen Harris was satisfied with the young team. “I feel overall they were enthusiastic.
They rose to the test of working with me and becoming better athletes. For right now all we need to
do is feel good about this season and not worry about next year,” Harris said.

At VMI, junior Frank Ivey set two school records. In the 1500 meter run, he eclipsed his old mark by
nearly five seconds as he finished in 3:59.32. In the 800 meter event, he ran a 1:56.85 to set the
school record. Meanwhile, sophomore Jeff Carter placed third in the high jump with a mark of 7’0”. The winning jump
was 7’ 1 3/4”. “He’s right in there with the best of them,” Harris said. “He’s gonna get better —
he’s talented.” John Ponder, Jim Shaw, and Todd Cowdery also set personal bests.

Further up the road in Harrisonburg, the women ran well. Junior Sharon Bryant ran a personal best 1:01.2 in the
400 meter event. Sophomore Jean Webb placed second in her 800 meter heat with a time of 2:26.4, and then
came close to the school record (5:00.82) in the 1500 meter run with a 5:05.0. Junior Laura Hills, competing in
her first heptathlon, placed third overall. “A lot of them achieved the goals they set for themselves,” Harris said. “I’m
very pleased with the way the kids handled the season and handled me.”
