Volume LXXII, Number 10

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

By Anderson Scott ’84

Friday, 28 January 1983

Plott Memorial Raises $250,000

The most exciting thing since beating Chapel Hill

By DAVID RESNIK ’85

“The Donald Plott Memorial Concert is the most exciting thing that has happened to Davidson since the Wildcats beat Chapel Hill and won the State Football Championship in 1926.”
—School Archivist Chalmers Davidson

Zubin Mehta, William Workman ’62, Joseph Robinson ’62, and an orchestra of handpicked performers captivated a sell-out crowd of 1,137 at the Donald Plott Memorial Concert in Love Auditorium last Monday night.

The concert capped off a two-day series of events surrounding the establishment of the Donald Bryce Plott Scholarship Endowment.

The College requested donations of $500, $250, or $100 from everyone who attended the concert in order to raise funds for the scholarship. College officials estimated the amount of money raised to be $250,000.

WDAV (89.9 FM) broadcasted the concert live. WBTV (Channel 3) recorded it on videotape and will air the performance in its entirety this Sunday at 2:00.

Mehta also conducted a rehearsal at 11:30 a.m. on Monday which was open to all students.

Including the ushers, only sixty to eighty students attended the concert, according to Union Program Coordinator Ann Parker.

Concert Logistics

Vice President for Development Dr. Jack Powers organized the multi-faceted operation, which involved the office of the President, the College Union, the Alumni Office, the Development Office, the physical plant, campus security, the Union technical crew, and dozens of students, faculty, and administrators.

Powers thinks the concert “went real well” but regrets that it was “not possible for more students to attend.”

The only problems in organizing the event, according to Powers, were that the College has never before devised this kind of production, and that few staff members could devote their time exclusively to it.

“It was like inventing the wheel,” Powers recalled.

Mrs. Thomas M. Belk, Mr. George L. Little Jr., Mrs. Hugh L. McColl Jr., and Mrs. Betty Chafin Rash co-chaired the Plott Memorial Leadership Council, which helped the school with fundraising and gave advice.

Powers says the Leadership Council was very effective because they had “a lot of previous experience in charitable giving.”

He also expressed his gratitude for the assistance students have provided. Students helped the Department of Development by working at private cocktail parties, by picking up guests at the airport, and by working in the coat room. Powers says many students were asked to work “at the last minute.”

The Union employed twenty students as ushers and hosts. Fifty-nine students worked for the Commons in serving food and refreshments.

College Union Director C. Shaw Smith estimates that the Donald Plott Festival cost about $50,000 to put on, although he cautions that “this is pure guesswork.”

Davidson did not pay the performers to play but provided them with traveling expenses and accommodations.

Zubin Mehta stayed with Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Belk in Charlotte. Haas and Robinson lodged at the guest house, and Workman visited his parents. Other musicians stayed with professors.

Other major expenses included food and refreshments for Monday’s festivities, the printing of programs, advertising brochures, tickets for the concert, and overtime compensation for College employees.

The College charged the concert expenses to an account the Department of Development established last fall to cover donations.

There were no major problems with the technical preparations for the concert, according to Smith.

Day operations manager Chuck Still and his technical crew employed lighting arrangements similar to the ones used in dramatic productions.

The concert also required no amplification; Smith says that Love Auditorium is a “good speaking and singing place.”

The concert organizers tried to schedule the event in Charlotte, but couldn’t get the proper date. They moved it back to Davidson, but attempted to schedule

(Continued on page 5)

Plott Endowment to provide music scholarships

By DAVID RESNIK ’85

The Donald Plott Memorial Endowment will provide yearly scholarships of $2500 to eight gifted music students. The monies are intended for students who are pursuing a liberal arts education as well as a career in music.

The scholarship is open to non-music majors.

Vice-President for Development Dr. Jack Powers estimates that the Plott Memorial Concert raised $250,000 for the scholarship fund. The college needs to raise $400,000 for the scholarship, according to Powers. The College will continue asking for money until this goal is reached, he said.

Interest from donations to the Plott Memorial Concert will pay for the scholarships.

Powers hopes that the Plott scholarships will be available by next year, but he admits that this depends on generating support from gift-giving foundations as well as alumni and friends of the college.

(Continued on page 5)