8 Friday, November 11, 1983/The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Wallace Goodman drives to the goal

Soccer Hosts Furman For Conference Championship

By BOYD BLACKBURN

Davidson will play Furman here tomorrow for the Southern Conference soccer championship, but to make it to this game, Davidson
first needed at least a tie against Appalachian State last Saturday. They did just what they had to do, keeping
ASU in check through regulation and two overtimes to preserve a scoreless tie.

Because of Parent’s Weekend and the importance of the game, the game drew probably the biggest crowd in Davidson soccer
history. The crowd was treated to some excellent soccer from both teams. Crowds love goals, but this game had enough
excitement in spite of this absence. Both teams came out aggressively, and they contested every loose ball. Davidson’s attack had
the better of things in the first half, though ASU stopped several breakaways only by trips and fouls.

In the second half, the tension and emotion picked up dramatically. App State knew a tie would do them no
good, and the Wildcats desperately wanted a goal for a cushion. After several chances Davidson failed to convert into goals,
they became a bit overcautious. Their attacks were rarely sustained or supported because of the halfbacks’ defensive priority. ASU carried
more of the play, but even then, their scoring opportunities were rare. The Davidson defense pulled off the shutdown.

Davidson controlled the overtimes. ASU pushed too hard for the goal they had to have, and their attack broke down.
Halfway through the second overtime it was evident that the Wildcats were headed for the championship.

Furman advanced by virtue of their unbeaten record in the Southern division. Although coming from by far the weaker of
the two divisions, Furman tied Davidson two weeks ago. They are definitely a worthy contender for the title. They are
strong in the air and make the most of their chances. Still, Davidson is the better team. They are stronger,
deeper, and more talented. Davidson will need to dominate the game from end to end in order to win. In
recent games, the only Davidson goals have come from constantly bombarding the goal. They have not been able to take
advantage of the occasional chance. Also, although the defense is strong and fairly consistent, momentary lapses have resulted in goals
for the opposition. The defense must be primed for every attack. This being the last game of the season, it
can be expected that each player will give nothing less than an all-out effort.

Davidson’s record is 12-4-3 overall. They finished 4-1-1 in conference games (regular season). The Wildcats were blown out 8-0 in
a non-conference game against Wake Forest. Wake is ranked seventh in the South, compared with Davidson’s eighth. This loss does
not affect Davidson’s entry into the championship. Tomorrow’s championship game starts at 11:30 a.m.

Davidson Loses 50-7

By KERRY BROWN and DAVID McGEE

The football team took a trip to Pennsylvania last week and played to a 50-7 loss from the Bucknell Bisons.
The Wildcats totaled an impressive 271 yards for the day, but the Bisons’ defense held the Wildcat offense to one
touchdown. The only score for the Wildcats resulted from a blocked punt by junior Jerry May.

Head Coach Ed Farrell described the game as “a tough trip for the team, and Bucknell played well at home.
We’ve played so many tough games in a row that we’re worn out.”

“We had a streak of five games before Bucknell against teams physically stronger and bigger than we are.” Farrell said
the offense has suffered from inconsistent ball control throughout the season. “We’ve moved the ball well, but once inside the
20, we have problems scoring. We’ve not been able to control the ball on the ground all year because our
offensive line is smaller than our opponent’s.”

The Wildcats play Catawba Saturday at home and fans as well as players look forward to a rousing win to
close out the season.

Laura McGee

Cross Country Finishes 8th In Blowing Rock Meet

By RAND HARTSELL

About the only thing keeping the Southern Conference Cross-Country Championships from looking like a scene out of theGreat White North
was snow. With the temperature hovering below freezing and a biting, blustery wind blowing off of a white-capped pond, the
wind-chill factor worked out to be something like five degrees. The Wildcats' performance generated about as much heat as the
cloud-obscured sun last Saturday. They finished eighth out of nine teams in Blowing Rock, N.C. Frank Ivey led the Wildcats,
as he has in their previous six competitions, with a 5th place showing. East Tennessee’s Dennis Stark became only the
second person in the last 30 years to win the conference title three times, leading the nationally fourth-ranked Bucs to
the team title. This Ontario native bested runner-up Jack Ditt of VMI by 14 seconds. Ditt was the only runner
to beat any of ETSU’s top five, a feat unaccomplished during the previous three conference titles.

There was a unified view among Davidson’s harriers about the way they performed in the meet. Freshman Trey Jammes, who
has consistently run second for the team, lamented about the cold weather. “I felt fine after the first mile (around
the pond), but about halfway up the first hill (1.5 miles) I realized I wasn’t really going anywhere. I never
felt good after that,” Jammes said. Sophomore Bob Watkins explained, “It was just so cold. I couldn’t get moving. I
never really felt comfortable.” Grey Foreman and Bryan Zielinski, on the other hand, ran respectable performances. Foreman finished 37th and
Zielinski 40th. “I felt pretty good the whole way,” Foreman said. Although he took a spill on a gravel-covered bridge
with just under a mile remaining, he said he was not affected by the fall.

The true indication of the Cats’ performance, however, lay in the team results. Western Carolina, a team Davidson had tied
once and beaten once, handily bested the Cats by a margin of 24 points. Furman, who could only manage a
one-point margin of victory over the Cats earlier this season, garnered 28 points less than the Cats. (In cross-country the
lowest score wins.) Rounding out Davidson’s scoring were Jim Rogers, 46th and Frank Hague, 48th. Those not scoring for the
Cats were Jammes, Watkins, Bob Tate, and Rand Hartsell.

The Cats now look to Kenosha, Wisconsin, November 19, for the NAIA National Championships. “Very few of us are satisfied
with our performances,” Hague said. “It’s not that we let up during the race, it’s just that we couldn’t get
moving. Of course, we want to do better in Kenosha,” he said. There’s no doubt they’ll be running with some
feelings of vindication. As Hague summarized, “Saturday is hardly indicative of what we can do.”

Six Players On All-star Teams

Field Hockey Ends Season

By KARA GILMORE

The women’s field hockey team ended its season with success recently at the Deep South Tournament in Boone, North Carolina.
Overall the team finished second in its pool. In the first game, Davidson blasted Catawba 4-1 in a game marked
with spectacular passing and offensive play — it was the most goals the team had scored in one game this
season, with three of them being put in by Mavin Martin. The Ladycats played their final game of the tournament
on astroturf against the University of the South (Sewanee). The team adjusted to the new field although they dropped the
game 1-0. They dominated play and had 26 shots on goal as compared to Sewanee’s nine.

Looking forward to next year, Coach Patricia Daley said, “The returning team is a young, hard-working group. Their skills and
team growth came a long way this season. They have the potential to do very well next fall. I’m excited
about them.”

The season did not end this weekend for a few players and Coach Daley, however. Daley was selected to play
on the Deep South All-Club team which will participate in the Southeast Regional Tournament November 10-13 at Goucher College in
Baltimore. Also named to three Deep South All-Star teams were six Davidson players. Freshman Heather McKee was named to play
on the number 1 team; juniors Paige Marsh and Kara Gilmore were chosen to the number 2 team; freshman Micheline
Sears, senior Courtney Hall, and sophomore Binny Jannetta were named to the number 3 team. The all-star teams will all
compete in regional play in Baltimore, Maryland. Players may compete to play in the Thanksgiving national tournament in Long Beach,
California. Coach Daley was also chosen to coach the number 1 Southeast team in this tournament.
