The Davidsonian / Friday, September 23, 1983

Milton Doubts Testing

By LISA THOMAS

Professors squirmed in their seats at the Open Luncheon Wednesday as visiting scholar Ohmer Milton voiced his doubts about the
effectiveness of classroom testing, in his talk entitled “The Malignancy of Tests.” In this country, about 72 million undergraduate classroom
tests are administered per year, a large proportion of which are useless, Milton said. He feels that classroom tests are
the “single most powerful determiners of learning,” yet they are not commonly used to full advantage. Milton sees a need
to “turn this power to our favor.”

Milton is happy with the attention that education is once again receiving in this country, but he still feels that
the quality could be much better. He cited research indicating that students study according to the particular type of test
they are going to receive. For example, when told they were to have multiple choice questions, students prepared much less
extensively than when told they would have an essay test. However, Milton was careful to note that any kind of
test can be effective if it is prepared properly.

The main target of Milton’s attack is tests which require no deep thought or reasoning. He illustrated with sample questions
that require no knowledge except that of “test-taking.” Some of the poor questions required simple recognition or recall of obscure,
insignificant facts, such as “The Compromise of 1877 was signed at... the Wormley Hotel.” In many cases, Milton believes, the
professor does not recognize how few of his examinations require an understanding of the material. In a study done at
Florida State University, seventeen instructors stated that 31 percent of their test questions demanded complex thinking. When trained students judged
the tests, they discovered that actually only nine percent required reasoning.

In a society that is “enamored with numbers,” Milton believes that the academic establishment places too much emphasis on grades,
with the assumption that high scores indicate learning. Some states have gone so far as to pass legislation to curb
abuses of the SATs (which produce nice concrete figures), while the quality of testing in its classrooms is quite poor.
Milton believes that only questions that require “reasoning and deep thought” will make students’ learning rise.

Milton graduated from Berea College in Kentucky and received his M.A. from the University of Kentucky. He received his PhD
in Psychology from the University of Michigan and joined the faculty of the University of Tennessee in 1946. He was
Director of the Learning Research Center there from 1965 until his recent retirement. Since then he has been “crusading.”

When his children fell victim to testing in college, he recognized the need for reform. “That’s when it became personal,”
he said. He has published nine books and over 20 articles including such topics as “Improving Achievement via Essay Exams”
and “Testing and Learning.” He has just completed a survey of faculty, students, parents, and businessmen’s attitudes about grades. Davidson
participated in the study which is the first nationwide survey of its kind. The results should be out in a
month.

Political Science Professor Harris Proctor

Proctor Seeks Fulbright

By DAVID McGEE

Professor Harris Proctor, chairman of the political science department, taught in a Third World country, and felt like it was
time to go again. So he...applied for a Fulbright Lecturing Fellowship. When asked on the application why he wanted to
teach in a Third World country, he stated that “I have found it extremely stimulating intellectually to teach in Third
World countries. I desire a direct knowledge of traditional political attitudes and behavior, and to understand more fully how India
is coping with the political changes of modernization.” Proctor, who taught one year in Egypt, one in Kenya, and one
in Tanzania before coming to Davidson in 1970, has a love for living and teaching in environments different from his
own. “It really changes your perspective,” he said.

AIR FORCE ROTC — HERE ARE THE FACTS

When you're discussing something as important as your future, it’s urgent that you get the straight facts... and that you
understand them. Air Force ROTC can be an important part of your future. We would like to outline some of
the facts and invite you to look into gathering more. It’s a fact: the Air Force needs highly-qualified, dedicated officers...
men and women. It’s a fact: we need people in all kinds of educational disciplines. It’s a fact: we're prepared
to offer financial help to those who can qualify for an Air Force ROTC scholarship.

“Few Third World countries have had been able to maintain a democracy, but India has. I had read about it,
but I was surprised at how lively the political discussion was there — so much more than in other countries.
The people were allowed to criticize the government freely, and there was a lively press. The students and faculty were
more politically active than students here.” Proctor taught in the University of Delhi at St. Stephens College, a liberal arts
college. St. Stephens went co-ed about the same time Davidson did. The morale there was very high, Proctor said. “The
students were proud to be there. They are almost guaranteed a job when they graduate. It is also competitive. The
college received 9,000 applications for 280 vacancies next year.”

While teaching courses in comparative and African politics, as well as lecturing at other universities in India, Proctor and his
wife traveled throughout the country. “We never got bored. There is just so much to see in India: the Taj
Mahal, archaeological sites, the mountains, palaces... The population is anything but homogeneous; traveling from place to place was like going
through different countries. We relied on the local economy entirely. We didn’t have any canned foods — all fresh. The
faculty and people we met were very hospitable, much more so than in the other countries I’ve taught.”

Proctor also carried out a research project on the role played by members of a committee of the Indian Parliament
appointed by the president to represent art, science, literature, and social service, and on how they interpret their responsibility.

“As a political scientist, it was interesting to see how a Third World country is developing successfully through the democratic
route,” Proctor said.
