The Davidsonian Special Edition / Friday, December 2, 1983

Lab Problems Misunderstood
Credit Hours Essential To Implement Semesters
Malcolm Campbell

On November 8, “The faculty members voted overwhelmingly to abandon a proposed credit-hours system,” as reported by The Davidsonian. As a result, an overwhelming majority of science faculty and majors alike are upset at this recent vote. More than one fifth of all those declaring a major have selected a science major, while more than one quarter of Davidson’s faculty are scientists. Ask around and you will find a general feeling among science majors similar to the one I am going to describe.

The first objection to the latest semester plan stems from the fact that two classes of Humanities will receive as much credit as three science courses which include three labs. It seems clear that those outside scientific fields have either forgotten their laboratory experiences or have never had a lab course (Chemistry 21 excluded, for obvious reasons). For example, the Davidsonian editors claim, “A science student may do a lot of work in the lab, but this work cannot be compared to what a Humanities student spends on a paper” (emphasis added). Ignorance of the topic becomes apparent when the editors imply that a science student may not work a lot in lab. Any student who has had a lab course knows that hard work is not an option; it is required to pass the course.

I would also like to qualify the vague quantity “a lot.” In order to complete a laboratory assignment, a science student must first complete from 30 minutes to several hours of pre-lab work. Why? It is because some chemicals used in labs are hazardous; skin irritants, for example, cause sterility if absorbed through the skin, blindness can result from vapors, and many carcinogens are used regularly as solvents. In order to be aware of these dangers, students must research the chemical components of their experiments each week. Then, once the weekly assigned lab day (or days) arrive(s), students can be in lab from before two p.m. until around six. After four hours in lab, the assignment is over for the first week, right? Wrong. Now students must complete the post-lab portion of the course. This requirement can vary from a formal lab report (which takes as long to write as a Humanities paper) or studying for a lab practical or final exam.

The lab practical brings out another point. Lab courses are often separate courses from the daily lecture classes. The lecture course meets like the average class with tests and final exams plus some require final papers, oral reports, or final projects. In addition, students must attend a laboratory meeting which provides at least three hours a week of additional instruction by professors. (Three contact hours a week of instruction is the same amount of time that a normal lecture course receives. All other three-hour meetings receive full credit under the semester system, though a lab would receive none.) So as it stands, science students take a full load of classes (4 or 5) plus one to three lab courses while receiving no credit for lab courses.

There also seems to be some confusion on the part of the faculty as to what a credit-hour system implies. Classics professor Dirk French feels, “Credit hours are a neutral equivalent,” while French professor Everett Jacobus fears that credit hours are directly equated to student commitment or the amount of work required. As defined by an overwhelming majority of other colleges and universities on the semester system, the number of credit hours reflects the amount of contact hours — the time the student interacts with and is instructed by the professor.

Semester
Dr. Hallam Walker

I am glad to have the opportunity to comment on the pedagogical concerns of some language teachers in respect to the semester and trimester systems. First, let me give a bit of history. With the semester system in force prior to 1967, the language requirement for the degree was 12 hours, or four courses of three hours. Since most students entered with language credits, they took several courses on intermediate to advanced levels. At that time the whole curriculum was much more structured than at present. In 1967 the requirement was reduced to completion of a third level course, the equivalent of the present 20. Thus a student could fulfill the language requirement with one term’s course, as is the case now. Language laboratory work was introduced to intensify study in basic courses, yet there was a loss of program effectiveness without required study at higher levels.meets three hours a week, the course receives three credits. It does not seem unfair that when science students spend at least three more hours a week with their professor, the additional contact time should be recognized. By giving one hour of credit to lab courses, non-laboratory courses will not be penalized. Lab credit merely recognizes the time of instruction by science professors.

The phrase that reverberated throughout Chambers last year was “percolation time”: “The semester system will slow down the pace for students so they can contemplate the material for a better quality of education.” Under the currently supported semester system, science students will have to take five courses where up to three of those five may be lab courses. Therefore, students wind up taking eight courses which would actually prohibit percolation time. Proponents who boast “a class is a class” suggest that the requirements of a science major be reduced. Again, this is a simple solution based on incomplete facts. Since most Davidson science students want to go on to graduate school, they must take a certain number of science courses. GREs and MCATs are both required by grad schools and test students over a large variety of courses. Furthermore, each graduate department has its own list of prerequisite undergrad courses. If the required course load for science majors were reduced, the attractiveness of Davidson's science students would suffer. This decline of acceptance by graduate schools brings me to my final concern.

The decisions the faculty voted on seem to change with the seasons. Last spring it was semesters with credit hours. As the color of the leaves changed this fall, so did the will of the majority of faculty members. Currently, Davidson has a semester system without credit hours. However, as Christmas approaches, the faculty is now debating whether to switch to a semester system at all. I am afraid that this next vote may get caught up in the Christmas rush. My advice is to slow down. If Davidson is not ready to change to the semester system, do not rush toward it. Haste may hurt our school in the long run.

As a side note, I find it interesting that faculty meetings and votes are held while labs are in session. This means that many science professors are unable to leave class in order to discuss and vote on propositions which especially affect them.

Campbell is a senior biology major from Little Rock, AR.

System Benefits Languages

In recent years we have tried to compensate for the shorter period of study by requiring higher frequency of practice through drill sessions and lab work. A truly intensive program can be effective, but it demands constant application by the student. The student with other demanding courses, however, labors under a burdensome schedule, hurrying from one task to another. I believe that a return to a semester system would relieve some of the pressure.

Here is how the French program would function. First, keep in mind that the task of a language department is twofold; a program seeks to develop basic language skills in students and then to provide study of literature and culture through the language. The first job requires much exposure to material, memorization and absorption, and repeated practice. If this can be done over three semesters of basic course work, one and a half years, it is superior to doing it in three term courses over one academic year. An intensive program over a longer period is most effective. We would have French I through II meet three times a week, plus two drill sessions. French 20 would have three classes and at least one drill session. Higher level courses would have three classes or meet as seminars. Eliminating our current headlong dash through short terms would give more breathing and learning space.

It is a truism among professors that it is hard to get students in upper-level work up to a point at which they can produce a major term paper. Ten weeks really is a short time. I have not touched on calendar considerations but concentrated upon a program for teaching effectiveness. I do not advocate a return to the old two-year requirement of language study but may note that students seem to feel the need of work beyond 20, enrolling in good numbers in courses numbered 40 and above. They want to achieve real competence, just as we want them to. A semester system gives us more opportunity to work toward excellence.

Walker is a professor of French and chairman of the French department.