Students for a Nuclear Freeze: A Plea for Sane Arms Control
By NORRIS FREDERICK

In the past year, a grassroots peace movement has produced remarkable changes in United States politics. The U.S. House of
Representatives—where a year ago the idea of a nuclear freeze would have been ridiculed—in July came within two votes of
passing a resolution favoring the freeze. Hundreds of local governing bodies—including the Charlotte City Council and the Mecklenburg County Commissioners—have
voted for freeze resolutions. In the October elections, 11 million citizens (60 percent of those voting) voiced their approval of
freeze resolutions. In November, Business Week released a Harris poll showing that between 1980 and October 1982 approval in the
American public for greater military spending dropped from 71 percent to 17 percent, “the lowest level since 1971, when Americans
were sick of the Vietnam war and sick of spending billions on it” (Business Week, Nov. 15, 1982, p. 14).

Although the above victories are primarily symbolic, just last month a real victory over nuclear war preparations occurred. For the
first time in the history of the cold war, a major weapons system (the MX missile) was defeated by a
house of Congress. The House, and later the Senate, refused to appropriate funding for the production of the MX. For
the first time, a major weapons system was defeated by a house of Congress.

WHO SUPPORTS THE FREEZE?

The freeze is endorsed by Representatives; Senators; city, county, and state governments; virtually every Protestant denomination in the U.S., the
Catholic Church in the U.S., and a large number of grassroots citizens’ organizations (perhaps over 3,000 such local organizations). Some
local groups are affiliated with national organizations, such as SANE.

SANE was founded over 25 years ago by a group concerned to bring a halt to atmospheric nuclear testing. In
that group were Saturday Review editor Norman Cousins and Clarence Pickett, Executive Secretary Emeritus of the American Friends Service Committee.
The group formed “A Citizens’ Organization for a Sane World” (or simply “SANE”) in order “to develop public support for
a boldly conceived and executed policy which will lead mankind away from war and toward peace and justice.” SANE played
an important role in the fight for the Limited Test Ban Treaty, signed in 1963, and was one of the
earliest opponents of the Vietnam War. Recently, SANE lobbied support that helped to defeat the funding for the MX missile.

Nationally, SANE has over 30,000 members, with eight new chapters forming last year. Executive Director David Cortright and a full-time
staff of fifteen work with a million-dollar budget to elect pro-peace officials, to lobby against the arms race, to produce
a monthly newsletter, to visit campuses to educate students and faculty, and in sum to develop a far-reaching citizen’s program
for arms reduction and economic conversion.

NUCLEAR WEAPONS CHART

The dot in the center square above represents all the firepower of World War II: three megatons. The other dots
represent the number of World War II equivalents that now exist in nuclear weapons. This is 18,000 megatons or the
firepower of 6,000 World War IIs. The United States and the Soviets share this firepower with approximately equal destructive capability.
If you place a dime on this chart, those dots covered by the dime represent all the destructive power. The
top left-hand one encloses 9 large and medium-size cities in the en-tire world. (United States Senate staff have reviewed this
chart and found it to be an accurate representation of the square enclosing 24 megatons, which represents one new Trident
sub with the firepower of eight World War II's, enough to destroy every major city in the northern hemisphere. The
Soviets have similar levels of firepower. Just one Poseidon submarine, equal to the firepower of three World War II's, is
enough to destroy over 200 of the Soviet's largest cities. We have 31 such subs and 10 similar Polaris subs.
The circle in the lower left-hand corner represents the weapons arsenals.)

Much of the work nationwide is done by citizens who volunteer their time and talent to work for peace through
their local chapter. One of the most active chapters in the United States is located in Charlotte. Formed just over
a year ago and headed by Jean Wood, Charlotte SANE has been extensively involved in educating the public about the
arms race. Members have shown the film “The Last Epidemic” and other media programs to scores of church and civic
groups. Charlotte SANE has bought two full-page ads in the Charlotte Observer to call for a nuclear freeze. The group’s
monthly newsletter on the peace race recently went to over 5,000 North Carolinians. On the second Sunday of every month,
from 11:45-1:00, SANE holds a silent vigil, currently at the intersection of Morehead and Dilworth, near Covenant Presbyterian Church. On
the third Thursday of each month, an educational program is presented at 7:30 at St. Martin’s Church on East Seventh
Street. Charlotte SANE recently was instrumental in the formation of a political action committee which intends to help elect public
officials who favor the freeze and peace.

WHAT STUDENTS CAN DO

SANE and other peace organizations not only face being called “communists,” but also face the vastly more powerful and wealthier
“iron triangle” of the military, their industrial suppliers, and numerous public officials. SANE needs help in several ways.

(1) Educate yourself. Read, attend educational meetings such as SANE’s, and discuss the arms race.
(2) Make some small step for peace, whether it be attending a meeting, participating in a vigil, or being a
member of a telephone tree.
(3) Write letters to the editor of your hometown newspaper, and to your representatives, urging them to support the freeze.
(4) Become politically active for a candidate who supports the freeze.
(5) Contribute money. A student membership in SANE is only $10.00, about the cost of a record album.
(6) Register to vote, and vote for candidates who support a nuclear arms freeze and who oppose continuing the arms
race.

(For information about Charlotte SANE, write c/o P.O. Box 220101, Charlotte, NC 28222, or call Bruce Thornton, 525-2501. For information
about SANE in other parts of North Carolina, write N.C. SANE COUNCIL, P.O. Box 6004, Charlotte, NC 28207, or contact
Norris Frederick through Earl MacCormac’s office at Davidson College.)

WHY A FREEZE?

It is critical that a mutual, verifiable nuclear weapons freeze be adopted by the United States and the Soviet Union
now—before the present fragile nuclear arms balance is made even more unstable by the production of first-strike weapons such as
the MX missile. First-strike weapons would give the U.S. and U.S.S.R. the capability of destroying the nuclear weapons of the
other side. If the two superpowers develop and deploy these weapons, there will be a time of crisis.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 7 January 1983
