4 Friday, October 14, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Requirements Strengthen Liberal Arts Education

By MARSHALL DODGE

Davidson's academic requirements reach into almost every department on campus. To receive a degree from Davidson College, a student must
complete three courses each in the four areas of study: Language, Literature, and Fine Arts; Philosophy and Religion; Natural Science
and Mathematics; and Social Sciences.

Freshman English, foreign language courses, and four physical education courses are required: two water-related sports, a team sport, and a
lifetime sport. Physical Education classes must be completed before the junior year. Beyond these requirements, all majors have a set
schedule of courses. The flexibility left to a student includes what major he will pursue and what foreign language he
will take.

Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann was unavailable for comment about the College’s
requirement policies. Interim President Frontis Johnston said that the various departments propose all new courses and requirements for majors; all
are ratified by the entire faculty’s approval.

“I think the faculty feels you need a broad education in the liberal arts, or they leave you a relatively
ignorant person. Most of us may prefer one field over another... but we are not allowed to concentrate exclusively on
that [field],” Johnston said.

Recalling his days as a student at Davidson, Dean of Students Will Terry said the only electives then amounted to
which term a student would take his requirements.

The Blue Sky Program of 1967, which will dominate Davidson's curriculum until next year, left room for more electives and
academic freedom but introduced the area requirements as a liberal arts guide. These divisions ensured “that students have some breadth
of knowledge in various areas,” Terry said. “The Blue Sky Program gave more flexibility to the Davidson curriculum... (and) ensured
that students got a smattering of the liberal arts.”

Athletic Requirements

Athletic Department Chairman Sterling Martin quoted the History and Purpose of Davidson College in the College Catalogue when asked about
the athletic requirements. The philosophical justification of these requirements at Davidson has always been mens sana in corpore sano: a
sound mind in a sound body. “Any liberal arts college is justified in requiring courses in (physical education),” Martin said.

The water sports “give a person a feeling of his limitations in the water, if they don’t teach him how
to swim,” he said. “A part of athletics is wrapped up in the cooperative experience,” Martin said about team sports.
He also feels Davidson does a service to its students by offering instruction in lifetime sports. Rather than pay huge
fees to learn them, “it’s to your benefit to learn a [lifetime] sport now,” he said.

Students can receive physical education credit three ways: through taking classes, passing a proficiency test, or receiving credit through an
outside agency, such as the Red Cross. ROTC has a working agreement with the athletic department where certain ROTC classes
offer credit. Martin stated, “It’s a relatively minor requirement when you think about the past history of Davidson.” Mr. Martin
said Davidson formerly placed students with a test. The last test given placed 40 percent of freshmen in the so-called
“spastic class.” Beyond the stringent gym classes, ROTC was also mandatory.

Blue Sky Program

The Blue Sky Program, instituted in 1967, radically altered the academic and athletic structure of Davidson's curriculum. A quote from
the “Progress Report of the Blue Sky Committee” (May 15, 1967), states: “... a thorough restudy of our academic program
reflects the long-standing conviction of many of us [faculty] that it is time for a change.” The change included various
alterations such as the area requirements with exams (which were dropped), a trimester school year, credit for classes rather than
hours in class, a foreign study program, a revision of Freshman English classes, a proposed Learning Center (now the Center
for Special Studies), and an introduction of non-Western studies involving South Asia. “It was the conclusion of the committee that
Military Science and Tactics is not compatible with the liberal arts...” Beyond these features, the program also offered a way
to avoid requirements with acceptance into the Honors College, where independent study predominates.

Past Curricula

The present curriculum is seemingly liberal in comparison to the Davidson College Curriculum before 1900. The Davidson College Catalogue (1843-61)
listed the schedule of classes for students: a focus on Greek and Latin, with gradual introduction to basic math, science,
religion, and philosophy, with no options. “Divine Worship and Bible Recitations” were mandatory.

The various laws of the campus, like many colleges of its day, made a saintly life a necessity. The first
law of admissions stated that “No person shall be admitted as a Student of College, without producing satisfactory testimonials of
good moral character.” Other laws of the college showed its truly conservative nature: “No student shall violate the Sabbath Day
by engaging in worldly employments or recreations;” “The denial of being of a God... by any student, shall subject him
to expulsion from College.” Rules such as obtaining permission to visit home, rules forbidding gambling, drinking, visiting “houses of ill
repute,” and so on, make the present Davidson College seem truly a liberal arts college.
