Masterpiece (Citizen Kane, [1942], Produced and directed by Orson Welles; screenplay by Herman Mankiewicz and Orson Welles; starring Orson Welles, Joseph Cotten, Everett Sloane, Agnes Moorehead, Dorothy Comingore, and, in a bit part at the end, Alan Ladd!) 119 minutes, Rating: ****

The greatest movie ever made will be shown Tuesday at 7:30 in Perkins Auditorium courtesy of Dr. Engell and his film class. Now, culture lovers, whenever you’re sitting around at a party and someone asks you what your favorite movie is, you can reply in a very dignified manner, “Citizen Kane.” The film that you’ve always heard about but have never seen is simply brilliant. Why so great? Well to start with, there’s a plot that’s as clever as the Bible (and some might contend, as sacred). Kane opens with a very spooky shot of a huge mansion with a big “K” on it. Slowly the camera enters this building and inside (through the brilliant cinematography of Gregg Toland) the audience witnesses the death of multi-millionaire, Hearst-like Charles Foster Kane. Before he dies, however, Kane says the word Rosebud. The remainder of the film involves a newsreel reporter’s odyssey into Kane’s life to find out who Rosebud was, and the ending will leave you astounded.

Woven into this already fascinating tale is a witty script by Herman Mankiewicz and Orson Welles. In the past few years, there has been much controversy over how much of the script Welles actually wrote, but in the end, it’s his movie. The direction is innovative as hell, and each frame amazes. Welles uses dissolves, flashbacks, and depth of field like no director since. Many of his techniques, such as the revolutionary use of ceilings in movies, seem cliché today, until one remembers that Citizen Kane was the original cliché. The acting complements the behind-camera talent, and Dorothy Comingore is particularly effective as Welles’ naive wife, whose innocence is literally stripped before our eyes.

After reading this review, you may think that Kane is a very good “head” film, but it’s also immensely entertaining. There’s romance, intrigue, humor, and great pathos in the film. Don’t miss Citizen Kane. It’s what Orson Welles’, indeed the entire film industry’s career has hinged on, and even Paul Masson can’t tarnish that.

Citizen Kane and wife no. 1 (Phoebe from All My Children).

— Movie Reviews with Morris the Matt

Blazing Celluloid (Chariots of Fire, [1981], directed by Hugh Hudson; Screenplay by Colin Welland and Leo Gorcey; Starring Ben Cross, Ian Charleson, Nigel Havers, Alice Krige, and Ian Holm.) Rating: ****

Chariots of Fire, playing this Friday at Love Auditorium, is a study in style. Each character, indeed, each frame of the movie, is a crafted work of art. The film opens with a luscious shot of some Oxford students running on an English beach, all set to Vangelis’ spacey, dazzling soundtrack, and immediately the audience is hooked. Indeed, it’s a beautiful film, and Chariots’ content matches its elegance.

The plot comes from the story of two Oxford runners, a devout Scottish missionary, Eric Liddell (brilliantly played by Ian Charleson) and a driven subjugated Jew (a complex role played equally well by Ben Cross) and their competition in the 1924 Olympics. Both these actors are newcomers, and their performances are extraordinary. Indeed, the only main veteran performer in the film is Ian Holm as the running coach, a remarkable character actor who has quite a name in England. Colin Welland’s intelligent script subtly crisscrosses several themes into this atmospheric tale. Loaded with humanism, the film explores a changing Europe of the early 1920s. The viewer is constantly reminded of the lost generation—the World War I era—and the uneasiness felt between the old world and the new.Hudson is refreshingly optimistic about the future, and by the end, Chariots of Fire proves to be a moving experience. See it twice.

Wallace Shawn: Aw c’mon André, The Little Prince and Nazis?

Fast Food (My Dinner With Andre, [1981], Directed by Louis Malle; Starring Andre Gregory and Wallace Shawn. Screenplay by Andre Gregory and Wallace Shawn.) 110 minutes. Rating: ****

My Dinner With Andre, this week’s especially Fine Film, is playing Wednesday at Love. This unique and ultimately rewarding film centers entirely around a dinner conversation between Wally, a befuddled right-winger, and his friend Andre, a quizzical, neurotic nonconformist. Andre and Wally examine everything from electric blankets to the appeal The Little Prince might have had on the Nazis. Each character is constantly clashing (in a passive way) and re-establishing his position. Like Wally, I predict you’ll find your own opinions on life-and-the-whole-dumb-thing a lot different after the movie. Notice also the allegory in Andre. His trip to the restaurant has been regarded as a journey to hell by some, and the actual cafe is a surrealist’s field day. Cancel all other engagements and see My Dinner With Andre. It’ll make you happy.

My Favorite Year: 1982’s best movie.

Morris’s Finicky Picks

At the end of each year it is standard film reviewing procedure to pick the ten best movies of that year. In keeping with that tradition, here are my picks for ’82:

1. My Favorite Year—Richard Benjamin’s brilliant debut film, a funny, sad comedy about growing up. This movie truly has everything including Peter O’Toole at the height of his career as the hilariously hedonistic movie idol Allan Swann.

2. E.T. - The Extra-Terrestrial—An instant classic, and Steven Spielberg’s best film to date. Another movie with a message that manages to be incredibly entertaining and genuinely touching.

3. Tootsie—Dustin Hoffman’s first movie in three years, and it’s well worth the wait. An outrageously winning comedy in the screwball tradition of the ’30s that will leave you high on life.

4. The Road Warrior—Perhaps the most exciting movie ever made. Starring Mel Gibson as the tough—no, tougher than nails Max, Warrior makes Smokey and the Bandit look like an Encyclopedia Britannica documentary on the mating of the slugs.

5. Diva—Answers the question, “Whatever happened to New Wave filmmaking?” Well, it’s alive and kicking and the hugely entertaining Diva proves this.

6. An Officer and a Gentleman—Take a love story that’s as old as The Epic of Gilgamesh, add super direction, great chemistry between Richard Gere and Debra Winger, and you get this film. You also get a terrific movie, both moving and heartwarming.

7. The World According to Garp—Incredibly overrated by some, underrated by others, Garp is an ambitious if not always successful attempt to transfer John Irving’s modern classic to film. When it works it’s terrific, and Robin Williams is perfect in the title role.

8. Poltergeist—Part two of Steven Spielberg’s summer assault on moviegoers, Poltergeist isn’t really scary but it’s a barrel of fun to watch and the humor is outrageous.

9. Monty Python Live at the Hollywood Bowl—Speaking of outrageous humor, who could resist watching six men dressed as lumberjacks singing about women’s clothing and the joys of pressing wild flowers? Or how about Little Red Riding Hood who lives in a nuclear reactor? The bad boys from England have done it again.

10. Fitzcarraldo—Werner Herzog’s weakest film yet good filmmaking, even on its own simplistic terms. The confused history of Fitzcarraldo is more interesting than the film itself but it’s still worth a look.

P.S.: At the time of this writing I haven’t been able to see Gandhi, The Verdict, or Eating Raoul, which I’m sure have some merit. Fans of these films, please forgive me.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 7 January 1983