Committees Join in President Search

Student, Faculty, & Trustee Committees recently formed

By ROSS A. HOLT ’85

Work began this week to bring the student advisory committee, the Trustee Search Committee, and the faculty advisory committee together
in the search for someone to fill the shoes of outgoing President Dr. Samuel R. Spencer.

The student committee will consist of Mary Tabb, Rod Holman, Elizabeth Brooks, Mike Mauze, and Ben Williams. The SGA announced
the selections Thursday. SGA President Tim Johnston, Vice-President Boe Young, and SGA members Mark Oldenburg, Burt Taylor, and Sherburne Laughlin
interviewed approximately forty applicants for the five positions. They focused on three major areas: the applicant’s time commitment for spring
and possibly summer; his or her ability to represent a wide range of student opinion; and commitment to the College.
Johnston said they looked for “people who had thought things out, who were sincere, and who had thought about the
College’s future.”

Johnston said that he hopes the student committee will play a major role in communicating to the Trustees “as wide
a base of [student] opinion as possible.” He said the committee would act in an advisory capacity, perhaps even interviewing
prospective presidents.

In a telephone interview Wednesday, Chairman of the Board of Trustees Dr. Fred Stair said that Ben T. Craig of
Winston-Salem has been selected as chairman of the Trustee Search Committee. Stair announced that the members of the Presidential Search
Committee are Ben Craig, chairman; John Medlin, vice chairman; John Ma-

Greenpeace Director to Speak

The National Director for Greenpeace, U.S.A., John Hinck, will present a talk entitled “Greenpeace and Environmentalism in the 1980s” at
7:00 p.m. on 10 March in the 900 Room. Davidson’s N.C. PIRG Chapter is sponsoring his visit.

Hinck will address the issues of toxic waste disposal, acid rain, nuclear waste and dumping at sea, and the killing
of whales and harp seals. He will show film footage of Greenpeace’s direct action against ocean dumping and slides about
other environmental issues and Greenpeace campaigns during his talk.

Greenpeace is an international environmental agency. Hinck has published articles on environmental subjects in trade magazines and environmental magazines. He
has also coordinated successful Greenpeace campaigns to keep oil tankers out of the inland waters of the Pacific Northwest and
to promote clean air and control acid rain.

Woodrow Wilson Fellow

By DIANA BOHRER ’85

William Attwood, veteran diplomat, journalist, and author, will visit Davidson Monday, Feb. 6 through Friday, Feb. 11 as this year’s
Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow. During his stay, Attwood will speak on topics of international politics, lecture to classes, and lead
informal discussions about United States foreign policy.

Five of Attwood’s discussions will be open to the public free of charge. Tuesday at 3 p.m. in the Morrison
Room, he will conduct a talk on “Russia: Its Strengths and Weaknesses.” That evening Attwood will join former United Nations
delegate from Liberia, Professor Lafayette Diggs, for a discussion on “Misconceptions about Africa” at 8 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Attwood’s third presentation, “Writing, Reporting, and Editing,” will follow an open luncheon in the 900 Room. His talk will start
at 1:10 p.m. An address on “Disturbing Trends in U.S. Politics” will follow at 3 p.m. in the Morrison Room.
His final public discussion, entitled “Cuba and the U.S. from 1958 to the Present,” will be at 3 p.m. Thursday
in the Morrison Room.

Besides conducting public discussions, Attwood will speak to classes on topics ranging from Third World development to the aging process.
He will meet informally with students and faculty members in the Conversation Pit every day except Wednesday from 10 to
11 a.m. Students may sign up for a dinner with Attwood in the Conference Room Thursday at 6 p.m. or
for breakfast inthe Commons every day at 8 a.m. He will possibly attend Tuesday’s Crop Lunch as well. The sign-up
dinner will cost $2.00. Whinney, secretary; Jane Armfield; John Belk; E. Craig Wall Jr.; and Fred Stair, ex officio. The
Trustee’s Presidential Search Committee welcomes nominations from students. Recommendations should be made by using a special Davidson College Presidential Search
Committee Information Sheet, which is available at the Student Government Association office or in the office of the vice president
for development. The form should be mailed to Davidson College Presidential Search Committee, 1200 Commerce Center, Charlotte, N.C. 28202.

The Faculty advisory committee is one member away from being complete. During balloting last week, the faculty selected four of
its members out of sixteen nominees. The four are professors David Kaylor, John Kelton, Charles Ratliff, and James Swisher. A
run-off ballot today between professors Hansford Epes and Gill Holland will decide the fifth committee position. A chairman has yet
to be chosen. Dr. David Kaylor said he is unsure about exactly how the faculty committee will contribute to the
selection process, but he believes it will have a major influence. Both Kaylor and Johnston felt that all three committees
would meet together before the student and faculty committees will know exactly what their duties will include. Dr. Stair is
looking for an on-campus meeting between all the committees towards the end of next week so the groups can hammer
out the guidelines within which the advisory committees would work.

College Board Advises: Get It Right, Do It Fast

(CPS) — Two months late, the federal government has finally released student aid application forms for the fall, 1983 academic
term. But because the U.S. Dept. of Education took so long, the College Board — which processes many of the
applications for the government — is warning students to fill out the forms fast, and to get them right the
first time. Students should “get them filled out and in the mail immediately,” advises Kathryn Ribbey, a spokeswoman for the
College Board’s College Scholarship Service. Moreover, they should “fill out the forms very accurately, because there’s less time for corrections.”
The forms usually come out in November, but were delayed this year because Education Dept. officials couldn’t agree on the
questions and format of the applications, Ribbey says. Because of the lateness of the forms and the subsequent confusion expected,
the College Board has set up a toll-free “hotline” that students can call to find out about the status of
their applications. That number, Ribbey says, is printed at the top of the new applications which are now available at
college financial aid offices or through the College Board.

Compensation for Summer Thefts

By DAN VOORHIS ’84

Davidson College will decide soon on compensation for the $6,627 worth of students’ stored property stolen over the summer. “Davidson
College is definitely not liable,” said Belk Dorm Senator Leon Mason, chairman of an SGA committee investigating the matter, “but
out of the goodness of their hearts, they will pay a percentage of the cost.” Mason said the College would
probably refund half the assessed value of the stolen goods. Possessions covered by a homeowners insurance policy would be made
good by the College for up to half the cost. Business Manager Bob Currie must approve the final plan. The
thefts “raise the question of how much will be stored next year and by what procedure,” said Dean of Students
Will Terry. “It raises the future of the whole policy.” Most of the larcenies took place in Belk Dormitory, but
thieves looted the entire campus. Drew Wells, Norwood Smith, Dan Metzel, Doug Vass, Elizabeth Wilson, John Toler, and Robert Bruce
reported losses to the police. Police found only one suspect, a painter who worked on the renovation project.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/4 February 1983.
