2 Friday, April 1, 1983 / The Davidsonian

NEWS

Writing Competitions Underway

The Vereen Bell Memorial Award and the R. Windley Hall Writing Award for Freshmen are accepting submissions for the 1983
competition until 5 p.m. April 14. Open to any regularly enrolled Davidson College student above the freshman class, the Vereen
Bell competition carries a $60.00 first prize, $40.00 second prize, and $20.00 third prize. The R. Windley Hall Award, open
only to members of the freshman class, awards $40.00 for first place and $20.00 for second.

The judge for this year’s Vereen Bell competition is Richard Dillard, poet, novelist, and director of the creative writing program
at Hollins College. Dillard will present the Bell award April 28 at 8 p.m. in the 900 Room. Davidson College
English Department members will judge the R. Windley Hall competition, and the award will be presented at the April 28
ceremony. For more information and complete rules, contact members of the Davidson College English Department.

SAE Calendar Sale Expands Book Endowment

This past weekend the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity presented the Library with a check for $2,500 to be added to
the Sigma Alpha Epsilon Endowed Book Fund which was established two years ago. The check, which marks the profits from
the fraternity’s Activities Calendar sale this fall, brings the total amount in the book fund to $4,500.

According to Library Director Leland Park, endowed book funds such as the fraternity fund help undergird the acquisitions budget. Currently
the $375,000 endowment underwrites five percent of annual acquisitions, with one book purchased each year for each $500 of endowment.
Park hopes that someday the entire acquisitions budget will be endowed.

Religion Professor Mahony Elected To Regional Office

MacArthur assistant professor of religion William K. Mahony has been elected president of the history of religions and religions of
Asia sections of the annual convention of the American Academy of Religion, Southeast Region. During his five-year term, Mahony will
plan and evaluate scholarly proposals, coordinate academic discussions, and be responsible for the quality of presentations. The Southeast Region of
the AAR represents more than 500 college and university professors from 15 states.

A specialist in Asian religions, Mahony joined the Davidson faculty last fall as the College’s first MacArthur assistant professor. The
appointment was made possible by a $300,000 grant awarded to Davidson College by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur
Foundation of Chicago, to assist in the hiring of new and promising faculty members. Mahony has done extensive work in
the areas of Hinduism and Buddhism. He has been editorial assistant for a journal, “History of Religions,” and an editorial
consultant to the Encyclopedia Britannica, for which he wrote 20 entries on Asian religions. Mahony is a graduate of Williams
College and holds the master’s degree from Yale University Divinity School and the PhD from the University of Chicago Divinity
School.

Amnesty International Official to Speak

John G. Healey, executive director of Amnesty International-USA, will speak in the 900 Room of the Davidson College Union April
7 at 7 p.m. His address is entitled, “Human Rights in the Eighties.” Healey, a Franciscan monk until 1968, served
as director of the Peace Corps program in Lesotho from 1977 until 1981. From 1974-1977 he was a program officer
for the Center of Community Change, involved in world hunger and

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box
218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone (704)992-2000 ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student
Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, North Carolina 28036.

Ann Meador, Editor
David Resnik, Executive Editor
Duncan Fraser, News Editor
Kelly Sundberg, Assistant News Editor
Barry Elledge, Jeffrey Danese, Advertising Manager
Jeff Mann, Associate Editor
Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager

SUMMARY

Health issues. During that time he directed and promoted comedian Dick Gregory’s cross-country Hunger Run. Healey’s appearance will be the
keynote event for Human Rights Awareness Month, a five-week series of events focusing on global human rights issues, sponsored by
the Davidson College chapter of Amnesty International. Admission to Healey’s talk is free to the public.

Phi Beta Kappa Elects New Members

The Gamma Chapter of North Carolina Phi Beta Kappa elected new members March 22. Seniors are elected on the basis
of grade point average and other criteria which the local chapter takes into account. New members are: Lyn Bolen; David
Boone; Jim Crowe; Jeff Dempsey; Carl Elliott, Jr.; Eric Fichtner; Alan Fields; David Fleming; Debra Freeman; Ivy Goodman; Jama Greene;
Gene Griggs; Gray Hampton; Ed Harlan; Florence Olivia Hart; Buncie Hay; James Hooten; Jeff Jordan; Greg Kaufmann; Michael Kelley; Robin
Kidd; Elizabeth Kiss; Ken Krieg; Ken Lewis; Catherine McMillan; Arabella Malone; Lucy Marshall; Hal Martin; George Murrell; Sarah Nock; Joyce
Robinson; Daniel Sappenfield; Caroline Scott; Bill Seel; Laura Singleton; David Stosur; Kathryn Stokes; Teresa Strawser; David Taylor; Cliff Tribus; Gordon
Turnbull; Danny Waddill; Eric Weiss; Margaret Elizabeth West; Ed Whitesides.

College Employee Earns Advanced Law Enforcement Certificate

Director of public safety Jackie G. Hughes has been awarded the General Advanced Law Enforcement Certificate by the Criminal Justice
Education and Training Standards Commission of the N.C. Department of Justice. The requirements for earning the certificate include an associate
degree, 480 hours of advanced law enforcement training, and ten years of certified service in law enforcement. Hughes joined the
College in 1978. He formerly served as a captain of police for the town of Davidson, where he worked from
1972 to 1978. He is a veteran of 24 years in the U.S. Army, and holds the associate degree in
criminal justice from Central Piedmont Community College.

AI Prisoner of Conscience Released

One of the women prisoners of conscience featured in the International Women’s Day letter-writing campaign has been released. Mampe Mtshinga,
a 20-year-old South African woman who had been missing since May 1982, was recently released from detention according to Amnesty
International. Mtshinga was active in the Black Consciousness movement in South Africa. She had been held incommunicado and without charge
since her arrest ten months ago.

1983-84 SGA Senators Elected

The results are in from last Tuesday’s SGA Senator elections.

Senior Class Senate:
Pat Woodward, Class President
Ester Kim, Class Senator
David Hutchinson, Class Senator

Junior Class Senate:
Warren Gould, Co-President
John Laughlin, Co-President
Todd Wiebusch, Class Senator

Sophomore Class Senate:
Edward Hay, Class President
Beadsie Woo, Class Senator
Jennifer Gotto, Class Senator

News Staff:
Diana Bohrer, Roxanna Guilford, Mary Beth Harding, Paulette Kurani, Jeff Holland, Tim McGaughey, Mike Tantillo, Dan Voorhis

Features Staff:
Fred Broadwell, Brian Butler, Craig Detweiler, Jonathan Glance, Bob Finch, Thurston Hatcher, John Krotchko, Eric Long, Kirsten McDonald, John Marks,
Matt Morris, Tracy Thompson

Sports Staff:
Bobby Barnes, Scott Huie, Kara Gilmore, Garry Sullivan

Photography Staff:
Neil Cooksey, Angelique Foster, John Lyday, Laura McGee, John Ruppenthal

Production Staff:
Rob Hollenbeck, James Moore, Jim Morgan
