‘Like Any True Musician, When I Found Out I Could Sing, I Said to Hell with Instruments’

By KIRSTEN MCDONALD ’83

For William Workman, the combination of a liberal arts education and the best musical training came together in the fulfillment
of a dream. Workman, the leading baritone of the Frankfurt Opera Company, returns to Davidson Monday night as one of
the soloists for the Don Plott Memorial Concert. He sees the concert and the Donald B. Plott Memorial Scholarship Endowment
that it will support as a way to provide the opportunity for talented musicians to enjoy the benefits of a
liberal arts education, while pursuing their studies in music both here at Davidson and elsewhere.

Workman’s early years were spent in Atlanta where his father taught at Emory. In 1951, Dr. Workman accepted a position
teaching psychology at a small liberal arts school nestled in the rolling piedmont of North Carolina, Davidson College. Unaware of
the true genius of his voice, the younger Workman attended North Mecklenburg High School and had a brief tryst with
the trombone. The band director recognized Workman’s musical abilities and realized that the trombone was inferior to Workman’s intrinsic instrument,
his voice. Inspired by the band director’s urgings, Workman began taking voice lessons under the tutelage of Donald Plott. Workman
soon learned that his true musical love lay not in the trombone but in his voice. “Like any true musician,
when I found out I could sing I said to hell with instruments.”

The first two years of Workman’s college experience were spent solely at Davidson. 1960 brought the news that he had
been accepted at the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia. The subsequent three years were spent in a migratory flight
for education. Winters were spent in Philadelphia at the Curtis Institute studying voice under Martial Singher, summers found Workman at
Davidson working towards his undergraduate degree in English. “I wanted to have a rounded background, to know about something other
than music. I think my decision to pursue a liberal arts education has been of real benefit. I can appreciate
the form and content of a piece as well as I can its music.”

At the close of his final year at the Curtis Institute, Workman had the opportunity to sing for Rolf Liebermann.
Liebermann was so impressed by Workman’s voice that he offered him a position with the Hamburg State Opera that same
day. Workman hesitated at the prospect. “Here I was from the backwoods of North Carolina, having seen my first opera
at 16, and now I was being offered a position with a well-known opera company in Europe. I had my
doubts, but saw the opportunity as one I couldn’t pass up.” Needless to say, Workman accepted the position with the
Hamburg State Opera, at the cost of declining a Fulbright Scholarship. “I started out with the smallest roles. My first
one was that of the Second Prisoner. It had a total of 14 lines.” Over the next three years, Workman
continued to sing with the Hamburg company, working his way up to his first major role, Papageno in The Magic
Flute. “This was mostly an acting role. I mean the singing is secondary to the acting. Still, it’s one of
my favorites, partly because it was my first major role and partly because it’s Mozart.”

Workman’s big chance came when he was asked to sing the part of Figaro in The Barber of Seville. “This
is a part which requires singing as well as acting. After this role, I was recognized for my singing abilities.”
His success with the role of Figaro gained him the prominence in the opera world that his voice deserved.

A Workman composition: “Just like the water in the bathtub, baby, you run out on me.”

When Liebermann left the Hamburg State Opera, Workman decided to do the same. He spent the next few years working
as a freeagent appearing in operas everywhere from Vienna and Paris to Dallas and Santa Fe. In 1975 these madrigal
wanderings came to a halt and Workman found himself in Frankfurt, Germany where he had accepted the position of leading
lyric Italian and Spielbariton. “It’s an ideal situation. I sing three months a year with the Frankfurt company and the
rest of the year I am free to make appearances elsewhere.” Workman's musical interest does not rest solely with opera.
“I messed around a bit with the guitar — parodied some country music. That was before the texts got so
weak and the music so wishy-washy. I see Arthur Smith as a kind of Baroque musician. Of course, he doesn’t
even start to compare with Mozart who is my favorite.” With lyrics such as “Just like water in the bathtub,
baby, you run out on me,” it may be fortunate that Workman decided to concentrate on opera instead of diving
into the realm of country music. Workman lives in a small town outside Frankfurt with his wife Elizabeth (formerly a
member of the Stuttgart Ballet) and their two children, Anne and William Gatewood III. He claims that the location is
excellent because it is right in the hub of Germany’s opera country.

Workshop Plays Continue
Insanity of Mary Girard, Next pack theatre
By LOY THORNTON ‘83

Last weekend the second set of workshop one-acts, “Next,” directed by Charlie Lovett, and “The Insanity of Mary Girard,” directed
by Scot Myers, played to a success in more ways than one. Student interest was overwhelming as audiences packed into
the workshop theatres up to the ceiling to view these two very different plays.

“Next,” the story of a 40-year-old mother who is drafted and wants to be declared 4-F, starred David Barber and
Suzanne Dickey. The two worked well together on stage with Dickey playing straight-man to Barber’s jokes. Underneath all the jokes
lies a noble statement about how we are all really alone. Unfortunately, we lost some of the humanity of the
characters in the incessant joking. And, although the play was funny, some of the message was lost. Some of these
problems arise from the script itself as the playwright gave Sgt. Tech too few lines with which to develop his
character; Marion had so many punchlines that her personality had little room to develop. Hence, when they attempted at the
end to switch to a more serious note, the audience was a bit confused from the lack of build-up to
the tragic ending. Here then lies the difficulty of doing a play with so many one-liners — the audience becomes
so busy laughing at one joke after another that it misses the development of the characters. But, despite the uncertainty
surrounding the ending, “Next” was very enjoyable and certainly drew its share of laughter.

The second play of the evening, “The Insanity of Mary Girard,” was a powerful study of a married woman who
becomes pregnant with another man’s child. Her husband then commits her to an insane asylum. Mary Girard, played by Joyce
Robinson, so despairs of a world in which she has no control that she decides to retreat into herself, choosing
insanity as her only means of escape. Five furies, eerily done by Doug Vass, Hal Martin, Jane Harper, Roxanna Guilford,
and Cynthia Briscoe, visit this unfortunate woman to show her the past and future.

There was no worry about too many laughs here as the audience silently watched the scenes of mounting insanity on
stage. Delivering a stunning performance, Joyce Robinson allowed the onlookers to feel the impact of her predicament. She conveyed the
sense of absolute powerlessness before the forces of Fate that Mary Girard and indeed all of us suffer. Altogether it
was a tight performance. The furies moved smoothly from character to character; the lighting that suggested changes were well-handled; and
the performance flowed smoothly with the terrible tension of Mary Girard’s acceptance of her insanity.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 21 January 1983
