The Davidsonian/Friday, October 7, 1983

See ows PPE eonttseeO sees ‘ os ‘ H @ revie spent (roy ane a j . ntown mE Nicho
tte pee ION eNO ee: 0" pent on Monants and light "ls envisions landscapi W ose pend og Te “tee?
wil of the SPE hopse. funny — the other one y for re- and Posts and benches ben Pine with
Parki R nite oenitt ut j death here at David- int first-draft the possibility fk Walkways ing for on wry
Pro- y of YS, custome The S- Le items such 8roupin, oncem TS is of go® nrte® gens: apn [he
* ho Mall now as transf. & utility + With a proj ma; Jy CO p08 x of a ers,
and garbage dunn, (eetnc Spaces for each | Cog teed OF fi Maps 4 ones of of Ww \os ute
_ For ence and servi dumpsters for con met shopping s 1,000 square f ve fe ; 25180 ne gene
arcu enna whe iceability, veni- current! Pace. The Town of Set of Mond: - Editors’ ne each ly has only
one parki Davids yr For those of ¥- 1,000 square feet ing space for Hall for | : night's To
oe gane> ne co™ y ~ s yews: as . oiet®: ad wee yernens e=*m ; gis recovey not lost.
We are an nc ree sti" WE make " veep Wain for me if ody We will read anyt .
To ‘ " asco ‘ aes keeP Jong " ak ot cose will cease” Compa" nay Ve? King " anya
A . ace, DU" w ndicott Repot if that has fewer person . Tv ay pone into P anvary- tne
ar fewe! * of BB sions to The Davidsonta. y4 yp “93 | ee ° ; sions 148 or 149
RESNIK gad WE Cait = rs Mee ; com ne ra of V isiton™ p of some | Bm Gass
oF 8 Nis Box ne. ors: nd C Landau © oie er , aie ° , of “8%. e "
Introduce People to ache Jesus Christ.” do “ering his veek — Sanyo Stereo +n. 4 out with : Center includes
truntable, cassette | kers, mic end cles" deck, radio, two spee s . : -upplies, Good condition, excellent = ’
sony, 6043. oe Crown Deluxe 4 eat but d Box 1937 or - of | life? Why is there 5
an ultimate moral. nate the wees th? Who is the we: He tray _ Knechtle nle lieve in God; he
a ence as a child C - the Stairs in lone If you are the t Humar Drip Western th.
rights tdewt a r that time ncies” * ost ase wee To the Editor ical and mental hae bigredator \\s
This letter to the editor concerns that mind off my ow? deplora on THY ‘ of fun-loving mudslin- too °
_spertet fore ane © an Take a momen’: ve y ake age ont ve vg he calumnous choir of ly
known as the Booze Brothers o gers fondly yourselves. Daa ane’ “eittior nay 0 en Fa son oe of Davidson
College. 1m sure that many j be: ge _ on wv 1 of you have been subject at one tume
or aes i cnenirne sa ost. of 90 Kua another to the acrnmomious wit of those refs <3 paskeh es
pee ‘ or’ ax entertaining young chaps. and | must aunver® * ae So! : on gat admit that I've
enjoyed a chuckle or © ev} ne = (08 fe <0 OF Oy “at u s _ myself after skimming
over the {ot ane ei wee a ; gas F ‘ THe’ : of sizeable column.But have we wondered just
who these against Neil owe ever ate was as yes — Fot ww WO NV ores SP esr" Vee Ines
Alan McGuire Standardé | ane » in Ian McPherson —pP QO fterword by J » John Casey n Fraser. W8>
Pp ORD NNA cuir 1, Duncan! By ROXA _ nationally affleot Mary Thornberry a In Baseball Cats Give U.S.C. a
Run for their Money BY BARNES sparked the debate, as they centered around a run to lead Davidson bunched three
singles together. The B' lead off the inning sent starter David to the showers. Matt Walker (2-2) came swinging that
everyone saw except the two umpires (how both of them could miss something so obvious is still a mystery). Four
more runs marked the end to a string of successful relief performances by Ed Whitesides. The Bucs continued to pound
out hits off reliever Doug Wiley while the Cats could offer no threat at the plate. Scott Weaver drove in
the fourth inning single, leading the team in hitting. The Cats were aggressive at the plate, knocking ten hits —
all coming from the last two hitters in the lineup. Al Baldwin and Chip Knox unfortunately managed to strand eleven
runners. Characteristic of the day for the Cats was in the second inning when Philip Gordon chased home John with
a first-inning home run. C. battled back with a pair of runs in the bottom half of the inning to
tie the game. They then took the lead with a Dennis single. The Cats fell behind as C. scored six
times in the final frame. Back-to-back home runs by Baldwin and Knox brought the Cats within two feet and two
debatable calls of the scoreboard. Baldwin had three hits, including a double, and Knox and Keith Helfant each had two.
The Cats travel to Charleston Monday to play conference power The Bulldogs. The Cats wasted no time showing the Gamecocks
that they were competitive. They managed to complete the sweep. Again, the game was close until the Bucs scored six
times in the final frame. Barnes and Walker will take the mound for Davidson.

Subscribe to The Davidsonian and receive 28 weeks’ worth of news, features, and student life. It’s the best way to
keep up with your wayward children. $12 for 28 issues mailed to your home. Send your check or money order
to:
The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, NC 28036
