*x* EXTRA *x* THE DAVIDSONIAN Special Edition Davidson College, Davidson, NC 28036 Friday, December 2, 1983

Faculty To Make Decision On Semester Move Tuesday Vote Crucial

About 25 faculty members will challenge the previously approved change to semesters at a decisive faculty meeting this Tuesday. This
group will introduce a motion based on a petition now circulating among the professors condemning the semester system.

“It’s a very crucial vote,” SGA President Hunter Monroe said. “It’s the last chance to decide the issue before the
January deadline.” The Tuesday meeting is the last opportunity to decide the issue before semester implementation would be delayed until
the 1985-86 school year. Most want to determine the fate of semesters and not let the controversy continue another year.

The faculty will consider three options: to accept the motion to remain on the present three-course system and retain course
credits for graduation requirements; to delay the semester system; or to defeat the motion and proceed with the proposal.

Between 25 and 28 professors have signed the petition on which the motion is based. The petition, initiated by art
professor Herb Jackson with support of others, has gained many supporters. Jackson said he detected a great deal of “softening”
in the faculty’s resolve since last year. The decision lies with the sizable group of professors who have not committed
to either side. Jackson said the chance of passing the motion was “hard to call.”

Jackson felt that the faculty’s attitude toward semesters has changed since they have had a chance to examine the proposed
system more closely. “Things change,” Jackson said. “The faculty has had time to think about things, and as time passes,
they have had time to develop the pros and cons of the system as it affects the program.” Many are
daunted by the actual changeover process. “It’s a major realignment of the educational system,” Monroe said. “Even if it were
a better system, it would have to be much better to merit a change of this magnitude.”

Another factor in changing opinions was the defeat of credit hours to accompany semesters. Some science professors, including biology professors
John Williamson and David Grant, once favored semesters but can now see little benefit in the system. They feel the

By DAN VOORHIS

The SGA voted 17-3 Tuesday to issue a petition collecting student signatures in favor of the trimester system. SGA President
Hunter Monroe will present this petition at this Tuesday’s upcoming faculty meeting. The SGA petition reads, “We the undersigned students
want Davidson College to remain on the trimester system.” It was worked out after the SGA decided its position in
favor of semesters by a much narrower margin, 13-8.

The move, pushed by Monroe, SGA Vice-president Lentz Ivey, and Senator Beadsie Woo, is designed to voice student opinion before
the faculty vote. “It’s just to get student opinion on record,” Woo said.

Hoping to influence any wavering faculty, Monroe will speak in favor of trimesters at the meeting backed by what he
hopes will be a large majority of the students’ signatures. “I hope the faculty will at least consider our opinion,”
Monroe said. “We felt a petition would be the best way to present it. Students here are mature and have
considered the relevant facts. The faculty should recognize this.”

Monroe said the SGA was not ignoring students in favor of semesters but felt that such a majority advocated trimesters
that the SGA must favor it. He said he would also explain that many students supported semesters at the faculty
meeting. “The SGA President, since he is the only student allowed in the faculty meeting, should present the prevailing student
opinion,” Monroe said. He felt the last SGA President, Tim Johnston, failed to do this, and consequently this might have
affected the faculty’s decision last year to go to semesters.

“Students shouldn’t get the idea that the faculty goes out of its way to ignore student opinion when last year’s
president misinformed them on what students thought,” Monroe said. The SGA, whichhad been resigned to the semesters, sought simply to
expand the exam period under the proposed system. When Woo, Monroe, and Ivey saw opposition rising to the credit-hour system,
they felt they could, in Woo’s words, “get their foot in the door.” Woo said they chose the form of
a petition over last year’s SGA referendum of student opinion because it was “unambiguous” and could not be misinterpreted.

The petition started last Wednesday and will be collected next Tuesday. On that day, the SGA will also set up
a booth in chambers to answer any questions about the issue. The semester system would only reduce class time and
crowd lab space. But Jackson felt credit hours would both hurt and help passage of the system.

Background: Semester Planning Committee

College President Emeritus Samuel Spencer appointed the Semester Planning Committee in May 1982 after a poll conducted by mathematics professor
Richard Bernard found that a majority of the faculty would like to examine the possibility of moving to a semester
system. Religion professor Samuel Maloney chaired the SPC, and its members included Bernard, speech professor Jean Cornell, German professor Hansford
Epes, history professor Peter Krentz, political science professor Mary Thornberry, and biology professor John Williamson. The Committee met eight times
before releasing its report.

The following is a summary of the SPC’s proposal and suggested calendar: Each semester would be 15 weeks: 14 weeks
of classes and one of exams. Classes would meet Monday-Wednesday-Friday for 50 minutes, or Tuesday-Thursday for 75 minutes, or Monday
through Friday. The graduation requirement would be 32 courses. The “normal” teaching load would be five courses per year. The
“normal” student course load would be four courses per semester.

The faculty approved an amended version of the semester proposal by a 60-33 vote at their October 19, 1982 meeting.
The revised proposal maintained the current graduation requirement of 36 courses, the “normal” teaching load of six courses per year,
and six credits for the Humanities program. The faculty also passed a provision requiring that the proposal not be implemented
before the 1984-85 school year.

Student Vote

Davidson students overwhelmingly rejected the SPC’s proposal in an SGA referendum on November 12, 1982. The vote was 743-120. The
referendum drew 962 votes as compared to barely 600 in most SGA senate elections. However, when he attended the faculty’s
meeting, SGA President Tim Johnston defended the semester system and suggested that the student referendum might hold little meaning since
most students were uninformed on the semester system. Johnston was not satisfied with the semester system as it stood. He
wanted to add the credit-hour system to the semester proposal to alleviate the science department’s problems.

After the faculty initially approved the switch to semesters, the calendar and daily schedule were referred to the Educational Policy
Committee and the Executive Committee for adjustment. The faculty approved the credit-hour system in principle last May and overwhelmingly abandoned
it on November 8. The faculty also approved the current version of the semester calendar last May.

Adjustments

College Registrar Richard Burts sees the change to semesters as “a swap with no improvement.” Registration, he said, would be
conducted only two times per year, although its complexity would increase. Transcript forms would have to be redesigned to accommodate
five courses. Registration sheets would be changed and simplified to avoid the more than 50 branches that five courses would
require under the current format. All catalogue listings for next year’s catalogue must be ready for publication by January 16,
1984, Burts said. In order to change to semesters, all courses must be restructured. Both the EPC and the entire
faculty must approve each of these changes. Course changes were due to the EPC by December 1. The EPC has
only recently begun work on approving courses.

Blue Sky Background

The faculty adopted and the Trustees approved the trimester system in the fall of 1967 under the Blue Sky program.
The Blue Sky committee was organized in the fall of 1966. The Blue Sky program was Davidson's first curriculum overhaul
in 40 years.
