The Davidsonian / Friday, April 15, 1983

Davidson College is going to hell in a handbasket. Two years ago, it was the term-paper-buying scandal. The next year,
someone embezzled a small fortune from the school. Now — Oh my God — someone has been ripping down campaign
posters! And if that wasn’t enough, someone ripped off a roast beef hoagie from us in the Cafe Sunday night.
What has become of the Honor Code, Hunter?

Luckily, all is not lost. The Student Committee to Undermine Morality (SCUM) heroically saves the day with the Souvenir Edition
Greek Week Extravaganza!

SAE: The Hoddies appear to be mixed in mediocrity this year, as they are favored to win nothing. Just look
at this lineup: Henson’s too fat, Kane’s too stupid, Valbuena’s too ugly, and the Throbber’s too bald. In addition, the
presence of the Carr twins, winners of the 1983 Cloning Mistakes Award, make the Hoddy squad laughable.

KA: Like the E’s, the totally maxed-out awesome guys of the J.B. Stoner White Fan Club appear to be doomed
to finish in the cellar. All their competitors plan to station someone wearing an SAE jersey at all events and
given Sigma’s past choking record against the Hoddies, this strategy will no doubt be successful. “Cool” Shreve, “Bad” Carter, and
the Bear plan to claim that Soud has again bent the rules to assure their defeat. That's cheating — are
you listening, Hunter?

Phi Delta Theta: Last year saw the sun set on the Delt dynasty. Perhaps it was only a coincidence that
last year was the first year in which Keith Martin played a part; nonetheless, his return this year bodes evil
for the Delts. For instance, take Headball. The key to Headball is the ability to hold your liquor. With the
departure of Hux, Hawk, and Robinson, the Delts should not have an ice cube’s prayer in hell.

PiKA: Last year’s defending champs have ruined any chance of a repeat with the elimination of their ringer event, foosball.
In addition to having a home-table advantage, they were the only group to schedule two-a-day workouts. In addition, the Pikes
were dealt a double death blow last week. Not only was Greiner declared ineligible for having mistakenly graduated, but his
wife, Laura Helmus-Greiner was also disqualified. “She can’t throw that Nerf ball worth a damn. How can she be a
Pike?” asked Vince, talent scout for the gridiron Cats. Undaunted, Ms. Helmus-Greiner plans to challenge Johnny U. Martin for the
starting QB job next fall.

SPE: Those cool killers, Willie “Grasshopper” David and Howarth, are especially ready for the Baby Killing event. Slug Lincoln was
not optimistic about the SPE’s chances, however. “We've got about as much of a chance as a dog at a
spay-neuter clinic...”

Fiji: With several drinking events lined up, the Kevin Attar-led Fijis figure to make a strong showing, as Kevin's drinking
ability is exceeded only by his ability to lie about it. However, this is the only bright spot for the
Fijis, as noted losers DB Toler and Bill “Me? Stoned?” Swift will surely destroy the Fiji cause. In addition, the
presence of David Hessler, whose IQ hovers around room temperature, will surely diminish the Fiji performance. John Bazos and Tom
Specht are not worried about the Fiji’s chances. “What the hell, we’re gonna be back again next year,” claims the
Baze.

Now it’s time to look at some of the events which were cancelled this year. Many of these events would
surely be more exciting than those which are officially sanctioned. We felt that it is our duty to bring these
events to you. Here they are — the lost Events of Greek Week ’83!

Snitching: This event determines which 10-man team can spot the most Honor Code/Code of Responsibility violations in 24 hours. As
expected, the SPEs are the...Favorites in this event, led by Mr. Telescreen himself, Hunter Monroe; however, Will’s Boys, the KAs,
also figure to make a strong showing behind the talents of Buncie’s brother, Sambo Hay, and Bill Satterwhite. “I didn’t
get to be a Hall Counselor by looking the other way,” Bill stated.

Bench Building: Who else but those industrious youths of Phi Delta Theta could conceive of an event like this? “These
guys are as good at carpentry as they are on the football field,” bragged Shop Steward Todd Lambert. Nothing more
needs to be said, except for North Meck! Go Vikings!

Drug Abuse: Drugs will play an integral role in this year’s Greek Week. Leading contenders for this year’s Sweet Leaf
Championship are the Pikas’ 3 G’s and the boys of 4th Sentelle. Out of the competition this year is First
Knox, following the departure of Schefect.

Aerobicise: Aerobicise was scheduled to be a Greek Week activity this year; however, after The Davidsonian published reports that Laura
Taft had been receiving $25 to teach aerobicise, the Warner Hallies were disqualified. “We must remove the taint of professionalism
from amateur sports,” stated one Ruskie. “Sour grapes and flabby thighs!” Taft snapped back.

Narcissism: This year’s narcissism competition is shaping up to be a battle between Beach Leeper and Todd “God I’m Gorgeous”
Thompson in the male division and Rives “F.O.” Balcom and Caroline “I’m Brighter than I Act” Massey in the female
division. The winners will be given free full-length mirrors to admire themselves in, which will save the rest of us
the trouble of having to admire them ourselves. The candidates said, respectively, “How can I miss?”; “Don’t bother me, I’m
parting my hair”; “F.O.”; and “Hunh?”

Let’s get serious now. Although the events of Greek Week are a lot of fun, we should never forget the
true reason behind our enrollment at Davidson College. We are here to study, to learn, to achieve, and to excel.
Unfortunately, some people here at D.C. seem to have forgotten what these words mean.

FOR SALE — Yamaha Stereo Equipment (Receiver, tapedeck, headphones). If you like stereos give me a call. Stan - 6370.

FOR SALE: Head Skis. Real, real cheap (unbelievably). Stan - 6370.

FOR SALE — French books. Stan - 6370. Cheap.

FOR SALE: Vasque Insulated Hiking Boots — all leather — made in Italy — excellent condition. Size 9 1/2 (wearer
would use 8 1/2-9 in daily shoes). Price $40. Call 892-5266.

Classifieds

LOST: Gold bracelet with Maria engraved on it. Please contact Maria at - 6646.

FOR SALE — Bohsei 17” refrigerator, excellent condition, excellent price! Lindsay, - 6043.

LOST — pair of wire frame glasses, probably lost behind Sentelle. Call Mark Whelan at 6353 or return to 407
Sentelle.

LOFT FOR SALE — Sturdy!! Single bed loft (School frame fits in) Connected by bolts. - 4872, ask for Laura.

Automotive repairs for students — If you need your car worked on and don’t have the time or the tools,
let me know. Call Jeff Kistler at - 4882. Wide variety of work done. (Includes Faculty).

Senior interested in housesitting this summer. If you need someone like me please call 892-6053 and ask for Dale.

Pastor's wife seeking babysitter on Mon. from 10:30-1:30 and one afternoon a week. 15 min. from Davidson. One child, age
1 year. Call 875-6683.

Papers typed: $1 per page. Call - 6339.

FOR SALE: Steel Frame Typing Table — grey color, four casters with leg locks. Size 14” deep 26” high 18”
wide with two 8” hinged drop leaves. Price $32. Call 892-5266.

As of February 1, 1983 I have been missing a bundle of laundry that the laundry processed. If someone has
mistakenly collected my laundry please return it promptly. Thank you. Signed — currently without clothes, Drew Wells.

RUG FOR SALE — Tan rug 6 x 12 good condition. $20 negotiable. - 4872, ask for Laura or Kirsten.
