By JON GLANCE ‘83
Complete Madness
Madness

There are New Wave bands that strive to make valid sociopolitical statements, and then there are bands like Madness. Madness is seven guys from North London who have, over the last few years, concocted some of the quirkiest, most distinctive pop/dance tunes of the 1980s. On this LP, all of their greatest hits have been assembled in a well-planned package that highlights the diversity of the band while presenting a unified front. While most of the selections have not been heard much in the U.S., and several have not been previously released, the record is definitely a worthwhile addition for your record collection (if only as an introduction to Madness’s distinctive brand of music).

It is difficult to categorize the band—it has been called “the Nutty sound” for its blend of ska, carnival-fairground organ, and traditional pub rock. Throw in Cockney vocals and a nasal, burping bari sax, and you get a general idea. The lyrics are all about growing up in London, or having a few laughs with the boys, or about more bizarre things. Lately the band has been edging toward the more bizarre. The best (and most recent) song on the LP is entitled “House of Fun,” and seems to be about a 16-year-old going to a drug store and trying to get balloons and party favors for his birthday party. I have listened to this song about thirty times, and I still can’t understand much more than that (one reason the band hasn’t gotten much airplay here—the accent is pretty thick). I don’t know why this would be a very good topic for a song, but it really is a fine tune. It bounces along at a slightly frantic pace while the horns bleat blithely away and a merry-go-round organ pumps and wheezes. The chorus runs “Welcome to the House of Fun / Now I’ve come of age / Welcome to the lion’s den / Temptation’s on its way / Welcome to the House of Fun.” This doesn’t appear to have any deeper meanings (just like the rest of the song), but it’s sung with such conviction that you can’t tell. While this song practically shouts FUN, there are other selections which are a bit darker in tone. An example is “Cardiac Arrest,” which unassumingly recounts the morning heart attack and subsequent death of a rushed executive commuter from his perspective—he complains about traffic, works a crossword puzzle, thinks about his office (consisting of telephone, desk and chair), and becomes more and more upset while the chorus tells him to slow down and enjoy life. The song is punctuated by a wicked xylophone solo that belies the seriousness of the song. Madness is having too good a time to make a moral statement, and any message they may deliver is always undercut by an ironic or self-deprecating line or musical phrase, which I think is really enjoyable.

As I suppose you’ve gathered from this review, Madness is definitely an atypical band—by distilling dance music to its essence, the band is free to play whatever cleverly conceived nonsense comes to mind without losing the accessibility and popularity of the music. This formula has carried them well in England, where they have had a steady stream of number one songs. Although their roots may be too English for non-anglophiles, their music is worth a listen. Try it out, and let me know what you think.

Book Review

Recent release of Charlotte: Mint Hill and Vicinity

By R.J. Varicose
Visiting Professor

In the bowels of the library I chanced upon a brief respite from my interment to peruse the marvelous work of one Mme. Bell entitled Charlotte: Mint Hill and Vicinity. Seeming to recall no mention of this work in the Times Book Review, I was pleasurably amazed and surprised to discover it was a modern epic poem.

The work is set in Charlotte, but the scope of the work is phantasmagorical and encompasses a fantastic array of characters, with such deftness that the reader feels intimately associated with them. Indeed, one would hardly be surprised to encounter one’s own name or perhaps the name of one’s friends or relatives in these pages. It is as though a sort of undeniable connection exists between these characters and the readers, like a great network of lives running all over the Charlotte area. This chef d’oeuvre of Mme. Bell exudes a very special quality which can only be called tele-phonetic.

Her use of alliteration reveals an awareness of the magical, mythical roots of true poetry. Take, for example, this section of the poem:

May
Maynard
Mayne
Mayo
Maypole
Mayson
Mayzino
Mazola

Here we see a two-fold structure with a marvelous duplicity. The structure is both alphabetic and narrative. It tells, it rings, it resonates with desire: Let us examine the imagery. Mayne—mane, with implications of the goat and the centaur. The orgiastic implications of the Maypole are obvious, and then comes the inevitable May-son. And the despair of an endless cycle is intoned by the Mazola party hinted at in the close of the passage.

Let me, however, quickly thrust with my main point. Structure is the moral force in literature, and structure is what this book is about. Let me make myself clear. The conflation of an artificially imposed alpha-numeric array, which both contains and behavioristically transmits the socio-sexual patterns of individuals by implying a nexus which transcends sublunary concerns represents a triumph in literature.