(Continued from page 4)

Programs like the day care center, the Gethsemane step-tutor program, and the community center hot lunch program are less than a mile from campus but light years away from student concerns.

Skillern would like to see twenty-five students working for the day care center and fifty students helping tutor elementary school students.

He believes that “learning how to work, without being condescending, comes with involvement” and that such involvement benefits both students and citizens.

The third target group is the Davidson student body. If one eating house wants to do a service project, the Y will tell that house the community’s need. Thus, it will be easier for groups to accomplish service goals. Groups would maintain their autonomy and help members of the town.

SGA proposes credit hour system

By RICK AVERY

The SGA is presenting a proposal concerning the adoption of a credit-hours system to accompany the planned switchover to the semester system in the near future, according to SGA President Tim Johnston.

Johnston has been working closely with Burt Taylor of the Educational Policies Committee to come up with a plan for a credit-hours system. Johnston said he has been looking at systems at other schools and has gotten many ideas that he is molding into a formal proposal, which will be presented to the EPC at an “appropriate time.” Johnston could not give details about the proposal because it is not yet finished.

In an interview with the Davidsonian in late October of 1982, Johnston stated that he would “... go to bat for science majors.” He said that “lab courses would not be on a fair parallel” with other schools if Davidson switches to semesters.

Johnston reaffirmed this week that assigning credit-hour value to lab classes is still a major topic of debate and that the Credit-Hour Study Committee is working to come up with a proposal acceptable to the EPC.

Davidsonian Editors
Ann Meador and David Resnik, 526
Kirk Kirkpatrick, 166

Hobart Park Editors:
Suzanne Dickey and Scott Myers, 382
Dwayne Lett and Darryl Cooper, 317

Union President
Charlie Lovett, 344
Pat Donley, 322

Union Co-curricular Vice President
Suzanne Dickey, 369
Eileen Benner, 256

Union Social Vice President
Mark Tully, unopposed

Election Results

Freshman Advisors
Katie Dagenhart and Rob Spaugh, 362
Vickie Neale and Rob Spaugh, 294

Miscellany Editors
Stewart Cauley and Debby Williams, unopposed

Wildcat Handbook Editors
Frances Palmer and Lindsey Rader, unopposed

Y Service Corps Officers
President—Doug Ammar
Vice President—Melissa McManis
Secretary—Elizabeth Kelly
Treasurer—Chris Blake
Community Liaison—Pete Skillern

all unopposed

Alumni to Receive Honorary Degrees

By DAVID RESNIK ’85

Davidson College will award honorary degrees to Joseph Robinson ’62 and William Workman ’62 during convocation ceremonies this Sunday at 2 p.m. at Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Robinson is principal oboist for the New York Philharmonic, and Workman sings lead baritone with the Frankfurt Opera Company in West Germany.

College President Samuel R. Spencer will preside at the ceremonies, which will feature the first performance of “Let Us Now Praise Famous Men,” a choral work by William Hayden Welsh.

The festivities will also include a piano recital by Karl Haas of National Public Radio’s “Adventures in Good Music,” performances by the Davidson College Brass Ensemble, the Davidson College Concert Choir, organists Jane Redd and Neal Biggers, pianists Joel Harrison and Laura McDonald, vocalists Steven Gray and Joyce Robinson, hornist Elizabeth Herron, and trumpeter Hendrick von Deventer.

Admission to the convocation and Haas’s performance will be free and open to the public.

CLARIFICATION

Last week, The Davidsonian incorrectly reported that 85 percent of the Faculty believes the next College president “should come from a business rather than academic background.” Actually, the vote was for whether a candidate from a non-academic background would be acceptable and not necessarily preferred. Also, only about half the faculty was present for the vote.

—Eds.

Publication Board formed from editors and business managers

By PAULETTE KURANI ’86

The Publications Board, consisting of all the editors and business managers of Davidson student publications and College Business Manager Bob Currie, met last week.

According to Publication Board Chairman and Quips and Cranks Editor Jim Reese, the Board was organized to “ensure the high quality of publications on campus.”

The Publications Board's responsibilities involve the screening of candidates for editorship of all positions and overseeing the finances and budgets of the student media. It will also set up training programs to help qualify students for various positions.

The Board has existed a long time at Davidson College, but was disbanded in the early 70’s because of lack of interest.

“The last record of the Publications Board was in the 1971 Quips and Cranks,” said Reese. “After that, judging from the quality and comments in certain yearbooks, there was a surge of apathy on campus.”

Reese got the idea of renewing the Publications Board when he was flipping through a 1962 yearbook.

“I saw a story on it and felt that it was a good concept. The yearbook especially has improved within the last few years and I think that the Board will help its continued development as well as the smooth progress of all publications on campus.”

“I’ve been thinking about forming the Board all year and the time seemed right for action during the past two weeks because of the recent elections. The interest in school publications is at its peak right now.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN/21 January 1983