Opinions

The Once and Future Davidson

(This article was originally published in the 19 December 1980 Davidsonian. See also related news article.)

By LELAND PARK

What kind of Davidson do you expect to find or want to find when you come back for your twentieth reunion in the year 2000 AD? We talk about that quite often. That is, what kind of Davidson College do you want to find. We who live under that ubiquitous title of the “continuing community” also ask “what kind of town do we want to find in the year 2000 A.D.?"

SYNCO is a corporation about which the citizens of our town have talked a lot recently, and well they should. This corporation from Charlotte has become the second biggest landowner—second only to Davidson College—in our area. Specifically, their holdings begin about where the Elox plant is located on Griffith Street and run to I-77 (both sides) and across to and including the beautiful Lake Norman peninsula. SYNCO has been going through the legal maze of getting permission to begin the development of this area for residential purposes. They plan, as soon as the market will allow, to transform the area into what could be another town. There will eventually be 900 living units, consisting of duplexes, apartments, patio homes (small homes, sharing a common wall with another home, with a very small deeded lot), and condominiums. The pace is slow because the town can only supply the requisite water and sewer services but for 20 units.

I firmly believe there is something worth supporting and sustaining in the Davidson of today for tomorrow. My purpose now is not to debate SYNCO. I’ve already done that in The Mecklenburg Gazette. Instead, I want to comment on why the citizens of this little village are concerned with the SYNCO development or any other development around here. I firmly believe there is something worth supporting and sustaining in the Davidson of today for tomorrow. Defending the preservation of the town of Davidson “as we know it now” can be done in analytical terms. But the true reasons lie much deeper and are harder to capsulize in a few words. It is, rather, an ambiance which pervades us all.

In television ads a common setting for depicting the particular product is back-on-the-farm: takes us through a historical area; shows us a sunrise or sunset, and peers down into a canyon or up at the moon. There is a “get yourself together” and “free yourself of tinsel” feeling conveyed. It is a very real mood in this country today. The flight from the cities, which has been studied and reported so much, is a direct reflection of this mood. And there are other examples which are just as telling.

In the town of Davidson, as we in the “continuing community” know, there is an emphasis on the personal, much as there is on our campus. Town and Gown are really very similar. People speak on the street. The members of the Town Council live or work in the area and are confronted by their electorate face-to-face on Main Street daily or while leaning on a grocery buggy at Cashion’s. Democracy and representative government really exist here.

The social columnist for the local paper reports the goings and comings of our fellow townsmen; one rarely finds an unknown name listed there. Anonymity comes only to those who purchase a new car—and that lasts only until the word gets out. Loving concern blossoms at times of tragedy. We all remember when Mr. McKissick, a local man who was a wizard at repairing shoes and leather goods, was put out of business by a tragic fire. Funds were raised quickly by the community to put him back in business. The town cared.

New housing was sponsored for lower-income families, with citizens working with the local bank, a local endowment fund, the College, and the Federal government to construct over 60 homes. In so doing, the biggest part of the housing blight in the town was eliminated. Those on the steering committee and those being assisted were friends before this project began; they remain friends today.

A need for day care services resulted in a genuine outpouring...of love, money, volunteer carpenters and brick masons, etc. We now have one of the finest day care facilities and services anywhere. And we all remember the gentle little lady, who was born in this town, walking slowly down Concord Road from her family’s Victorian home, carrying a bag of clothes and food. She would cross Main Street, go down Bradey’s Alley, and end in the heart of the black community. There she would minister to the needs of a family who had sick members or who was down on its luck. Everyone knew what she was doing. There was no fanfare about it. She just did it. These acts of kindness, of knowing your fellow citizen and his strengths and needs, are more numerous than anyone other than the Almighty will ever know. Certainly, this quality is not unique to Davidson. It exists in other places. But the fact is that it does exist in Davidson. This community is a place where it is possible to know most of the people who share the proud title of “resident of Davidson.” And to paraphrase the late Senator L.Q.C. Lamar, “to know your neighbor is to love your neighbor.” You cannot ignore or disregard the joys and needs of your neighbors if you know your neighbors.

I was raised in Central Florida, a beautiful part of this country. Yet, with the Disney World explosion and NASA importing literally thousands of newcomers very quickly, “developments” sprang up everywhere. Plans for “Rocket City,” a city of tomorrow, to be built between Orlando and Cocoa Beach, were announced, the land was cleared, streets were paved without proper drainage, model homes were constructed, and the “re-entry” into the world of reality came as fast as bankruptcy was declared, and a 20th-century ghost town emerged. Other developments were financially more successful. But they became enclaves unto themselves, not part of the existing community. A respect for those traditional concerns of neighbors and neighborhoods was not forthcoming. They were identified only as “such-and-such-development.” These same people voted, of course, in the national elections. Most importantly, they voted in the local elections. And with the absence of any assimilation into the community proper, division came. Those who had worked long and hard for the good of the community over the years were turned out of office. The “new folks” were now in charge.

Growth is going to come to Davidson, and that is probably good. But it must be slow and orderly growth. The land which SYNCO plans to develop is ideal for residential development. It is beautiful land. Yet, it should be remembered that the town of Davidson has fewer than 800 registered voters. This high-density project will bring in 900 families, or potentially 2,000-3,000 new voters. When the entire area is taken into the town limits, the voting strength of those who have worked to make this town desirable so that SYNCO would want to develop the land could be powerless. This does not have to happen to Davidson. Growth is going to come to Davidson, and that is probably good. But it must be slow and orderly growth. Each year we welcome new citizens to this town. The spirit of concern for your neighbor can be fostered and can flourish. Adequate time between building phases gives time for residents of the town to make their way out to the “new folks,” to get them involved in town projects, civic clubs, church circles, Scout troops, etc. It allows for the ever-expanding circle of friends, of neighbors, to become a reality.

Edmund Burke several hundred years ago worded the problem, the opportunity, correctly: “To be attached to the subdivision, to love the little platoon we belong to in society, is the first principle (the germ, as it were) of public affection. It is the first link by which we proceed to a love of our country, and of mankind.” What kind of town will you come back to in the year 2000 AD? It can be the same, only better. As Jamie Wyeth so eloquently said: “Working within the framework of a strong tradition can produce many achievements that create their own tradition.” It is a tradition I cherish; I hope it can be sustained.

Park is Director of the Davidson College library.