The Davidsonian / Friday, April 22, 1983

15 - OPINIONS

Conscience Versus Selectivity

Duncan Fraser

Until recently I supported the ideas espoused by the Patterson Court Study Committee, believing that they were in the College’s
best interests. However, I have withdrawn my support of their resolution and am now in favor of the resolution calling
for a strict enforcement of self-selection as defined by the Trustee’s resolution of 1970: “This means no discouragements, neither active
nor passive, and no oral encouragements handed out to selected groups of freshmen shall be allowed. We submit that a
freshman has the unchallengeable right to select the place at which he or she wishes to eat.”

The resolution I support continues by calling for “a publicly answerable committee independent of the Campus Council on Religious Life
and the Patterson Court Council and holding its mandate through the SGA and the Office of the President [which] would
be selected to oversee implementation and enforcement of self-selection.”

In supporting this return to enforced self-selection, I have nothing against fraternities, only their perceived right to judge others. If
it is only the ego boost involved in rejecting a potential brother that serves as a bond between brothers, which
I doubt, fraternities should re-examine their purpose. Rather, I believe that it is the pledge process, consisting of road trips,
visitations, etc. which forms these bonds — not selectivity. Proof of this lies in the fact that some fraternity officers
did not receive oral encouragements, yet ate at a house, joined the fraternity, and rose to be officers.

In a Christian community such as Davidson, discrimination cannot be tolerated in any form. Christ's words, “Judge not, lest ye
be judged” are neither justified nor sanctified by the veil of “brotherhood.” It is for this reason I have withdrawn
my support for the legitimization of the current system: It is wrong. Selectivity is nothing but glorified discrimination on the
basis of dress, personality, looks, beliefs, race, religion, or regional origin. I had a difficult time reaching this view as
I know many fine people who are members of fraternities. But at the same time, I cannot escape my conscience
and my faith which both teach justice and equity.

I, Duncan Fraser, was passively discouraged by a nationally affiliated fraternity last fall and winter terms. All my closest friends
were rushed, got the invitations to parties, and finally pledged. I kept hoping and praying until the last moment that
I might be included, that I might be accepted, that I might belong. However, my futile visits to the house
got me nowhere and my prayers were answered differently. I cannot express the pain, rejection, and loneliness I felt during
those months, or my sense of frustration when my last glimmer of hope was extinguished at sign-ups. However, I am
not at all bitter about that experience. I have taken it, grown from it, and keep moving forward. I still
have my friends at that house and blame no one for what happened. Many changes have taken place in my
life since last fall, so I can only look ahead.

If I were to blame anything, it would not be the fraternity, which I still believe is the best house
on the court, but rather the principle of selectivity. Any principle that can devastate another human being cannot be considered
good or just. True, fraternities are strong groups and provide many services to the community that are good, but can
we justify evil, that good may come? While selective fraternities are a minority at Davidson, I believe that this selectivity
is not in the best interests of the college community as a whole. I will deny no one the right
to belong to a fraternity, so long as that same right is not denied by that fraternity to a single
person.student. Inevitably, the Trustees will decide on the final solution. They will most likely act on a recommendation from President
Spencer, which in all probability will call for enforced self-selection. In the meantime, I appeal for all students to ask
themselves, without bias, if the current system is right, if Davidson as a Christian college can tolerate this injustice. Invoke
the Golden Rule — what if you were the one who had been faced with rejection? Don’t underestimate the pain
and loneliness of being left out while your friends are being rushed and pledging. I hope that you too would
have the compassion, strength, and faith to stay with Davidson, unlike other students who transfer as soon as possible. True
self-selection can work if enforced; the Honor Code does. I hope this college will support the idea and implementation of
true self-selection. Fraser is a freshman from Atlanta, GA.

Hunter, Eu, and ‘Vitriolic Obfuscation’

To the Editor:

We would like to take issue with a claim appearing in a recent Announcement Sheet. Mr. Hunter Monroe, in a
fit of vitriolic obfuscation, intimates that the Eumenaen Literary Society Charades Challenge is a hoax: he maintains that his “single-handed”
acceptance of the challenge was not acknowledged. We encourage Mr. Monroe to read the challenge as it appears, and has
appeared. He will please note that we challenge “any team of 5-8,” a number he falls short of by at
least four. Pursuant to his recognition of his ineligibility, we demand that he retract his defamatory remarks. We understand that
Mr. Monroe continues to agonize over the fall term defeat of the Philistine Literary Society, but feel no obligation to
accept his childish diatribes. We of the Eumenaen Literary Society support our challenge and our 3-0 record. We would enjoy
trouncing any team, and will provide refreshments should such occasion arise. Eucan do it.

Jeff Herrin
Secretary for the Society

Fraternity Activities and Honor Code

To the Editor:

Due to recent events, we, the members of the Davidson College Honor Council, feel it is necessary to remind the
campus that the activities of fraternities and similar organizations need to conform to the standards of the Honor Code and
Code of Responsibility. In the past, the enforcement of the Codes in these areas has been inadequate, but the Honor
Council wishes to make it known that henceforth all violations will be recognized for what they are — serious infractions
of the Davidson College Honor Code and Code of Responsibility because they reflect badly on the reputation of Davidson students
and the College. This warning applies to activities on and away from the Davidson College campus, and students are expected
to be sensitive to their responsibilities in reporting violations. Students are expected to heed this notice and will from this
point on be held fully accountable by the Honor Council for violations occurring during fraternity and other organizational events.

The Honor Council

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters that are of general interest, but we
adhere to these four guidelines:
1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2) We require that letters be neatly typed.
3) We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.
4) We reserve the right not to print letters that a) function as advertisements; b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or
inside jokes; c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in other letters printed on the same topic. We
also reserve the right to condense very long letters.

The Davidsonian does not in any way endorse the opinions expressed in the letters that we print.
