_THE ANT BILAY IDSONIAN Volume LXIII, Number 8 Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036 Friday, November 4, 1983 Alumni Begin
Rusk Endowment Fund Raising at Atlanta Group Donates $500,000 By WAYNE MAGRUDER and DAVID RESNIK A special dinner honoring former
Secretary of State Dean Rusk '31 kicked off the fundraising efforts for the Dean Rusk Endowment for International Studies on
Wednesday in Atlanta’s Colony Square Hotel. Davidson alumni from Atlanta have already given $500,000 toward this $10 million project. The
Atlanta group’s fundraising goal is $1 million. The fundraising campaign will soon spread to other cities. Atlanta was chosen as
the starting point because it is where Rusk grew up. International Awareness The Trustees unanimously approved the Rusk Endowment during
their May 18, 1983 meeting in an effort to bring international awareness into the Davidson community. The program is scheduled
to go into effect in the 1984-85 school year. Rusk commented on the endowment: “I feel deeply complimented that they
[the Trustees] wish to associate such a program with me, and I’m looking at the program with avid interest. “The
next half century will have a direct and pervasive effect on everyone's daily life. We must help students get ready
. . . facing problems in achieving a durable peace, threats to the environment, energy shortages, and the consequences of
a population explosion,” he said. The International Education Committee (IEC), chaired by economics professor Clark Ross, has compiled a list
of Interim President Johnston and Dean Rusk '31 Bill Giduz suggestions for the funds’ use. Last Tuesday the Educational Policy
Committee approved the IEC’s preliminary draft for the endowment. The Faculty will consider the draft at their November 8 meeting.
IEC’s Preliminary Draft The draft would provide funds for changes and programs including two or three new faculty members in
the areas of Sociology; Economic Geography; Anthropology with a South Asian Focus; Political Science with a South Asian Focus; Latin
American Studies; African Studies; Chinese and/or Japanese his- LSAT Answer Sheets Lost In Mail By JEFFREY MANN The answer sheets
of the October 1 Law School Admissions Test (LSAT) were apparently lost in the mail. “They never made it to
our office,” said Director of Public Affairs Martha McGrane of the Law School Admissions Services (LSAS) which administers the test.
McGrane said all the students who took the test can retake the test on December 3. All students who took
the test are automatically registered for the December 3 test. Professor of Education William Hight, who supervised the test, mailed
the test sheets the day after the test was administered. “They never made it to our office [in Newtown, Pennsylvania],”
McGrane said. “We are confident that the test administrator [Professor Hight] got the answer sheets to the Post Office. There’s
no question that everything at that end was done correctly.” Senior Joe Jaworski, who took the October 1 test, said,
“At first I was a little upset, but now I want to use the situation to my advantage.” “I'm not
too pleased,” senior Mandy Barber said. LSAS has contacted other testing services to see if the sheets were mistakenly sent
to another organization. They also sent a representative to Davidson to assure that all procedures were correctly followed. The Postal
Service conducted traces on October 19 and 25 to try to find the package. McGrane said, “If need be we
will contact law schools to intercede on the candidate’s behalf. The law schools will be informed that the problem was
through no fault of the candidate’s.” Letters were sent out yesterday to everyone who took the test. McGrane said if
anyone cannot take theTest again on December 3, “there is absolutely nothing they can do.”

Police Arrest Man On Firearms Charges
By DAVID RESNIK

Davidson campus police arrested a man Wednesday night on charges of being armed on College property and carrying a concealed
weapon. Kenneth Dail Richard, 30, of Charlotte, was arrested in front of the Guest House Wednesday at 10 p.m. Arresting
officer Sergeant Henry Cook received a call from junior Edward Tavel, who told the police he saw a suspicious white
male dressed in a hunting cap, army fatigue jacket, and blue jeans on the second floor of Chambers asking questions
about a student named “David.” Cook apprehended Richard one minute after receiving Tavel’s call. Richard said he was looking for
a student named “Chuck.” After spotting a bulge in Richard’s pocket, Cook frisked him and confiscated a nickel-plated .38 caliber
Smith and Wesson handgun. Richard claimed that the student he was looking for had been fooling around with his wife.
He also said he intended to warn the student. Cook said Richard had been drinking and was taking a Valium
prescription. The police are still looking for the 1975 dark blue Ford LTD that Richard arrived in. Cook said that
the car left before “we could get to it.” Cook said Richard was looking for someone who lived in Room
207, but he did not know which dormitory. Richard must not have known much about the campus, according to Cook,
because he was looking for dorm rooms in the middle of the Chambers building. Cook said the police have not
yet contacted the student Richard was seeking. He urged all students to be on the lookout for strangers and to
call the Police at 892-5131 if they see a suspicious person. Yesterday the College presented Tavel with a Certificate of
Appreciation for his help in the arrest.

Art and Literature of China, Japan, South Asia, Latin America, Africa. Funds would be allocated to develop and administer internship
programs for students during both the academic year and the summer. Scholarships would be available to attract international students both
as degree candidates and visiting students. Curricula changes include support for drill programs in foreign languages and for self-instructional language
programs. Also, the Endowment would develop pre-entrance language study for freshmen, beginning three or four weeks before orientation. Students would
receive a head start in learning a foreign language. A resident scholar program comparable to the Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellows
program would be developed. Students would have the opportunity to listen to the lecturers and hold informal conversations with them.
Other programs include funding for international festivals and a centrally located International House, as well as funds for international speakers
who will not be available for the length of time required by the residency program. Support will increase for annual
purchases including books, periodicals, audio-visual materials, and maps. Special purchases would also benefit, such as international TV equipment, and a
video-language lab. Funds would also defray the cost of hiring a director of the Dean Rusk Endowment.

Advisory Council
The Dean Rusk Endowment Advisory Council was formed to consult with Davidson's Trustees, Faculty, students, and administration as they develop
the academic program for the endowment. Thomas I. Storrs chairs the council. Storrs is a recently retired Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of the NCNB Corporation of Charlotte.

(Continued on page 4)

Inside This Week
Photographer: Watsons: Four nominees have been selected as finalists for the Watson fellowships. Page 3
Anderson Scott's photography exhibit opens soon in the Copeland House gallery. Page 6
Boomerangs: Dr. Bendesky examines Latin American problems. Page 15
Bells: A timely article. Page 14
