4... Friday, October 21, 1983 / The Davidsonian

McDermont Delivers Apocalyptic Death Speech

By DAVID RESNIK

"I believe that we should experience our own lives in the context of being permanently afflicted, that is, of being
terminal." — John McDermont

Visiting scholar John McDermont delivered an apocalyptic speech on the topic of death to a stunned audience at 4:00 in
the 900 Room Monday. McDermont also spoke on Bioethics at 11:00 in Philosophy Professor Lance Stell’s Ethics class, and on
Karl Marx and John Dewey at 1:00 in Stell’s Political Philosophy class.

Ranging from anger to sadness, from joy to sheer revulsion, McDermont closed his 900 Room address by telling everyone to
“Celebrate!”

The Immanence of Death

The immanence of death shadows life, though many people try to suppress it, said McDermont. “Our great neurosis is history,”
said McDermont, “whereby we attempt to transcend the gardens of time and project ourselves as having meaning beyond our own
lives.”

For McDermont, “the fundamental question is whether there is a medium way between the self-deception of immortality, on the one
hand, and the radical commitment to the moment, on the other hand.” Rather than repressing death, McDermont believes that “a
life lived in the shadow of our own death is one which can prehend the scents of the most subtle
of messages, namely those intended only for creatures who risk living within the rhythm of time.”

McDermont believes that the descriptive term for the human condition is ‘transiency,’ because we are persons on a journey in
a “cosmic abyss.” “It is the quality of the journey that counts,” contends McDermont, “not the end in view and
certainly not the claim that we have journeyed.” Trying to hold on to memories only numbs the quality of the
journey: “Scraps and memorabilia... act as personal clots in the onrushing flow of our lives.”

Before concluding, McDermont revealed his philosophy of time: “I believe that time is sacred because human history has so endowed
it, with our suffering, our commitments, and with our anticipations.” During the course of his speech, McDermont cited passages from
William James, John Dewey, Albert Camus, Soren Kierkegaard, and Norman O. Brown.

Background

McDermont was born and raised in New York City. He graduated from Saint Francis College in 1953 with a B.A.
in Philosophy. He earned an M.A. in Philosophy from Fordham University in 1954 and completed his Ph.D. at Fordham in
1959. He taught Latin and English at Loughlin High School from 1953-1954 and Philosophy and English at Saint Francis College
from 1954-1957. McDermont taught Philosophy at Queens College, New York from 1956-1957. McDermont joined the faculty at Texas A&M University
in 1977 as the Head of the Department of Philosophy and Humanities and held his position until 1981.

McDermont is married to Virginia P. McDermont. They have five children: Marise (29), Michele (28), David (27), Brian (26), Tara
(22). His major fields of study are American Philosophy, Philosophy of Culture, Environmental Aesthetics, Medical Humanities, and History of Philosophy.
He has written five books and is working on three more.

Colin Stamp Presents Gift From Dr. Schweitzer

By ANDREW WILSON

“Through the control we now have to control a nature which we always thought uncontrollable, we have become a race
of supermen.” So said Albert Schweitzer at an address in Frankfurt in 1951. Schweitzer’s life has served as a paradigm
for many aspiring humanists, and Colin Stamp is no exception. TheHonorable Colin Stamp, writer, broadcaster, film producer, and lecturer from
London, appeared before a capacity 900 Room crowd Wednesday evening to present the first public showing of his revised illustrated
lecture on the life of Albert Schweitzer entitled “A Gift from Doctor Schweitzer.” Stamp’s visit included a 21-minute tape and
slide production and included reminiscences of his connection with the German-born philanthropist whose medical accomplishments in Africa earned him both
a Nobel Peace Prize and the appellation “the greatest Christian since Christ.”

Schweitzer’s critical reception ranged from naive adulation to muckraking defamation during his 90-year life. Stamp tried to temper his admiration
for Schweitzer with a retrospective objectivism but admits that Schweitzer’s life and works exhibit a great influence on his own.
Schweitzer grew up in the German village of Günsbach in the Alsace region as a privileged and gifted child. Stamp’s
slides of the town and family photographs rendered a clear impression of Schweitzer’s formative years. Schweitzer’s family soon recognized his
brightness and extraordinary musical ability. As an adolescent, Schweitzer toured the region giving organ recitals and went on to university
to receive doctorates in philosophy, religion, and music.

Schweitzer decided to perfect his mind until the age of 30; at which time he would transfer his skills to
his hands and serve less fortunate mankind. His sense of responsibility to the human race was deep-seated. Seeing the statue
of an enslaved black man strengthened Schweitzer’s resolve to devote his life to those less fortunate than himself. At age
30, he attained his fourth doctorate, this time in medicine. Much to his family’s chagrin, he embarked for Lambaréné, Africa
to establish a jungle hospital. The remainder of his life is paradoxically well known despite his seclusion. Schweitzer’s third-world humanism
brought him much recognition, though his European ties were severed during World War II.

Schweitzer’s philosophy of helping people pioneered what is now fashionably called “intermediate technology.” Schweitzer’s love for building and design became
manifest in the hospital’s simple and functional appearance. Animals roamed freely about the spacious compound where the patients’ families gathered
and prepared meals. During the sixties, Schweitzer’s intervention in the lives of the natives was censured by the anti-colonialist groups
who were angry with America’s involvement in Vietnam and other underdeveloped areas. Few of these detractors, however, realized that Schweitzer
was one of the first outspoken opponents of nuclear proliferation.

Born in 1917, Colin Stamp is the youngest son of the first Baron Stamp of Shortlands. After graduating in English
Literature and Economics from Queens College, Cambridge, Stamp joined the Royal Naval Reserve and served throughout World War II as
a navigation officer. After the war and until 1977, Stamp worked for American Express, opening their South African office and
then returning to London to become European Director of Marketing Services. Since his retirement, Stamp’s interest in both Schweitzer and
audio-visual experimentation has peaked. Wednesday night’s presentation was Stamp’s second visit to Davidson in two years. Stamp first became acquainted
with Davidson when his son visited as a Rusk scholar.

The Bicycle Shop
3844 E. Independence Blvd.
535-0255

Picking up bicycles that need to be repaired in front of Richardson Dorm between 12:00 and 1 p.m. on Oct.
26. They will be returned Nov. 2. Any questions, please call. Free pick-up and delivery. We will repair all brands.
If you need parts or accessories, let us know and we'll bring them when we return your bike.
