12 Friday, September 16, 1983/The Davidsonian

Eat me!

3rd Rich at the Talent Show

Some freshman halls were very resourceful at the Regatta

Regatta!

By Peggy Pierotti
Anderson Scott
Ann Meador

Hall Counselors greeted freshmen on 4th Little

The parental load-in

Administrative Metaphysics

(Continued from page 9)

The President normally presides over faculty meetings. The President of the student body is invited to attend all Faculty meetings
with the privileges of the floor but without the privilege of voting.

Fifty percent of the Faculty in residence constitutes a quorum for the transaction of business. Formal action of the faculty
requires majority approval.

Any educational program or policy adopted by the Faculty may be submitted by the President to the Trustees for review
and approval prior to its implementation.

The Constitution defines the Educational program and policy of the College as consisting of the College’s:

“a) curricula, curriculum requirements and academic standards;

b) international study programs;

c) formal programs for faculty study, research, and professional development;

d) selection and use of library materials;

e) awarding of academic degrees and honorary degrees;

f) establishing, regulating, and changing of academic departments;

g) academic and career counseling and guidance programs;

h) academic and scholarly lecture programs and cultural programs initiated by academic departments;

i) determination of requirements and standards of the physical education program including intramural sports;

j) determination of the academic qualifications to be applied in the admission of students.”

A number of Faculty committees formulate policy in these different areas. Students serve on all these committees except those concerned
with items c, e, and j of the educational program and policy. The Executive Committee is the major coordinating body
of the Faculty and its committees.

The Students

“The Student Body may organize itself into associational form; create representative legislative bodies, officers of student government and committees with
legislative and advisory powers.”

—Article XI, The Constitution of Davidson College

The SGA is the primary body for consulting student opinion on various issues. According to the Preamble of its By-Laws,
the SGA’s main purpose is “to provide a mechanism for recognizing the collective voices of students.”

The SGA has the power to charter student organizations and determines which students will serve on advisory councils.

The SGA senate acts as the legislative body. The SGA also establishes various subcommittees to study school policy.

The most powerful member of the SGA is, of course, its President. The President is the chief executive officer of
the SGA and represents the SGA to the Faculty, students, and Trustees. As previously stated, the President is allowed to
attend the Faculty and Trustee meetings with privileges of the floor but without the privilege of voting.

The SGA is the organization officially in charge of representing student concerns, but several other organizations act as fora for
communication. The list includes all the student publications: The Davidsonian, the student newspaper; Hobart Park, the student literary magazine; The
Wildcat Handbook; and occasionally Quips and Cranks.

The Y Student Service Corps offers opportunities for those students who wish to express themselves through service, and Davidson Christian
Fellowship and the Fellowship of Christian Athletes offer opportunities for expression through worship.

Organizations such as Amnesty International, the Black Student Coalition, the Women’s Concerns Committee, the Young Democrats, the Young Republicans, and
NC-PIRG offer students the opportunity to express social and political concerns (though this would not directly affect the Trustees).

In addition, the Patterson Court Council enables the Patterson Court Houses to regulate food operations and the social life on
the court. The Intramural Athletic Council allows students an opportunity to organize intramural sports.
