Features REM in the Studio

No philosophy profs here, but a good lecture

Davidsonian: Will you be playing at Davidson?

Mike: I don’t know. Are we playing at Davidson?

Bill: Yeah, it's definite.

Davidsonian: On the 5th?

Bill and Mike: Yeah.

This Saturday night, R.E.M., an Athens, Georgia-based rock ’n roll band, will be featured in the 900 Room. The doors
open at nine and R.E.M. starts at ten. Last Tuesday, The Davidsonian interviewed R.E.M. at Reflections Studio in Charlotte where
they are recording their third disc, a full-length LP for I.R.S. Records in Los Angeles.

After meeting Bill Berry at the studio, we walked to the Salvation Army thrift shop right across the street to
retrieve Mike Mills and Peter Buck. They were rummaging through old clothes, records, and assorted knickknacks in search of good
things. Mike, who plays bass, had bought a copy of the “Dr. No” soundtrack and at least one Frank Zappa
single. Pete, the guitarist, seemed to have done all of his shopping at a $10 bag sale earlier that morning
and was idly offering suggestions to Mike.

After we returned to the studio, Pete went with Mitch Easter, their producer, into the studio to record guitar overdubs
until late that night. The Davidsonian settled down with a cup of coffee into a chair reminiscent of those in
Davidson’s own conversation pit to talk with Mike and Bill who had finished their vocal dubs for the day and
had nothing better to do than talk to us.

Davidsonian: How did you start R.E.M.? Did it just happen or did you organize it?

Bill: We met at a party, my ex-girlfriend was roommates with Pete and Michael [Stipe, the lead singer who was
not in the studio on Tuesday]. They were all living in this old church and would sit up in their
room and write songs. Michael would write lyrics and they would play guitar and fart around. My best friend was
a bass player and I got some drums together and said, “Let’s get together and play in the church.” We
did mostly cover songs and some of the stuff we had written. We played a party or two and then
after that we started getting offers to play for money. We slowly went from there.

Davidsonian: Had you played music before college?

Bill: I’ve been farting around with the drums since I was eleven, but mostly in high school bands. I did
play in a lounge trio with my high school band director and he invited me to play in two summer
musicals in the Macon, Ga. little theatre: “Fiddler on the Roof” and “Guys and Dolls.” Peter and Michael have never
been in a band.

Davidsonian: Do you think you will go back to school?

Bill: If I make a million dollars I won't. I went there [U. of Georgia] with great aspirations of becoming
a lawyer and after my first 3 quarters my GPA was so low, because I partied so much, that it
became not the thing to do. I would have had to make 4.0's the rest of my tenure just to
get into some law school. I just got bummed out, joined a rock band, and got even less involved with
school.

Davidsonian: Did anyone in the band graduate from U. of Georgia?

Bill: Not yet. We all quit at different times.

R.E.M.’s sound is sparse and luscious at the same time. Although most of the songs are rather simple three or
four chord progressions, they are...Remarkably interesting. The lyrics, outside of a few chorus phrases, are hard to catch. Michael Stipe
mutters phrases that sound remarkably like English but on closer listening sound like any language. Like Juju music to western
ears, R.E.M.’s rich lyrics are tonal poems as opposed to, say, rhymed ballads.

Davidsonian: How do you compose? Does Michael write all the lyrics?

Bill: Michael writes most of the lyrics and we all put in ideas. He pretty much handles them. [Looking into
his coffee cup.] He has to sing them. The compositions just fall together. We get in the practice studio with
a 3 or 4 chord progression that we put out to the band and feed off each others’ ideas.

R.E.M. has played everywhere from the Roxy in L.A. to Charlotte’s Milestone club. They shared the stage at Nassau Coliseum
in New York with the English Beat and the Squeeze. They have played before the Gang of 4, the Police,
XTC, Oingo Boingo and others. After the new LP comes out, a tour of Australia is a good possibility.

Davidsonian: How do you feel about compromising your integrity for money, would you do it?

Mike: We’re only in it for fun anyway. We can’t really sell out because we don’t have any integrity... something
that some people would consider selling out, like a commercial for something, I think that would be a lot of
fun. Like toothpaste.

R.E.M.’s first single “Radio Free Europe — Sitting Still” was the winner of the Village Voice critics poll in 1981
and the New York Times top 10. Their most recent EP, “Chronic Town” made the number one slot on WDAV’s
Flipsides playlist several months ago and currently resides at number nine.

Since, at least to some extent, R.E.M. is considered an art rock band, the Davidsonian asked the questions not normally
asked of rock groups.

Davidsonian: What sort of philosophy do you adhere to?

Bill: I got a D in philosophy. The teacher and I clashed. The harder I worked the worse grade I
got.

Mike: I think some of the things Nietzsche said are great. Schopenhauer had some interesting right-wing ideas but you can
apply a lot of what they say to your life and it will help. Don’t ask me what.

Davidsonian: Are you religious?

Bill: Un huh, I try to be a good person, I guess.

Mike: I don’t think you need religion to maintain morals. I would never shoot anybody... you don’t have to believe
in God not to be a thief. If they send me to hell for what I’ve done, then it’s a
pretty valid thing.

Bill: I’ll be happy with purgatory.

Davidsonian: What other forms of art do you like?

Bill: I make postcards. You know, the crayon on crayon technique. You can melt it or scratch it out and
do all sorts of neat things with it. Yeah, I spend more time doing that than listening to music when
I’m at home.

Bill and Mike’s favorite color is blue although Bill likes purple on other people. They both claimed that one of
the reasons for recording at Reflections was that Tammy Faye of the Praise the Lord Club recorded there. After the
interview, Bill complained that he’d had too much coffee and Mike wanted to listen to his new records so we
left them there and returned. They are returning the visit this Saturday. Skip philosophy, and show up.

This interview was conducted by Miguel Abreu, Stewart Cauley, Margaret Chaffin, and Tom.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 4 February 1983
