Friday, December 7, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Evaluation Issue Undecided After Three Terms
By WAYNE MAGRUDER

Three terms have passed, and Davidson College still lacks a standard faculty evaluation form recognized by the administration and used consistently by the entire faculty. However, most faculty members distributed some type of evaluation form at the end of last term.

Two forms were available, one designed by the Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) and the other by the SGA. Some faculty members chose to write their own forms as it better suited their particular style of course analysis. According to the SGA, 25 professors used the SGA form, while 34 used either a form of their own or the PAC form.

Since the faculty decided in the spring of 1983 to discontinue using the Illinois Course Evaluation System (ICES), there has been no faculty evaluation. In response to this, the SGA formed a Faculty Evaluation Committee (FEC) in the spring of 1983. Its long-term goal is “to provide a mechanism by which the student has more influence in the decision to tenure a teacher.”

The PAC has met with Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann, but he “refused to accept the PAC evaluation form due to lack of available statistical data,” according to the FEC. The faculty, however, has expressed its concern that tabulated results are often misinterpreted. The FEC, therefore, wished to “arbitrate between the administration and faculty to resolve the issue.”

In addition, the SGA put together a form of its own which draws a compromise between the wishes of the administration and the wishes of the faculty. They used 20 objective questions from the ICES, and they provided opportunity for longer prose answers to more subjective questions. Results of that form will be sent to the professors with tabulated averages of each of the 20 objective questions.

SGA President Hunter Monroe was pleased with the SGA’s efforts to provide students an opportunity to evaluate their professors. “Because we were doing our own form independently, that encouraged faculty to use some form of evaluation. I think it sent a message across in a constructive way that students want to participate in evaluating faculty members,” Monroe said.

Some faculty members strongly favor evaluations in principle as long as teaching improvement is the primary aim. English Professor Cynthia Lewis said that some experimental or complex courses require constant evaluation. Also, professors without tenure need official evaluations by students as evidence of their progress and effectiveness.

Biology professor Cynthia Grant emphasized that it is wrong to expect students to respond intelligently to a form before they have taken the exam or have seen their final grade. The exam often constitutes one quarter of the course grade. She also objects to the forms being filled out on the last day of classes when students are in the midst of intense review and pressure.

Another contested point concerning a standard evaluation form is its use as a means for determining faculty pay raises, merit, rank, and tenure. Some professors see this as inevitable and not so objectionable, while others felt this put too much emphasis on evaluations hurriedly filled out.

Stockwell Denounces Covert CIA Operations
By TED WILSON

“The American public is being deceived,” proclaimed former CIA agent John Stockwell, who spoke on “The CIA in Search of Enemies,” in the 900 Room last Thursday. Pointing out several instances in which the American public has not been told the truth by the government, Stockwell harshly denounced the covert actions of the Central Intelligence Agency and its way of doing business. “Lies [often] originate in the CIA,” he said. For example, “Their objective was to run the war [in Angola] and to convince people that there was a communist plot in Angola though we had actually escalated the entire thing [there] and lied to Congress.”

Stockwell said that on various international assignments, “one-third of my staff was in charge of writing propaganda” which was relayed to America. Stockwell, after attending the University of Texas, became a marine and was involved in Vietnam until 1975. He was offered a job with the CIA and eventually became an advisor to the National Security Council. He left the CIA because of disagreements with the agency. In 1978, he published his first book condemning the CIA and was consequently sued by the U.S. government. As a result, he has been under censorship with his writings. Stockwell is the highest-ranking CIA case officer to go public with his condemnation of the agency.

“The CIA was profoundly negative in my experience,” he said. As a result of the hundreds of covert actions by the agency, “people suffer.”and die” and nations’ order is disrupted. “Covert actions get us into wars...” he said. “We’ve fought with nations [like Angola] that did not want to be our enemies.” Stockwell said that Americans are brought up to believe that it is the “other guys” performing the belligerent, cruel acts throughout the world, “yet we are doing them, too,” he said. For example, the Public Safety Program entailed American officers “teaching Latin American police forces how to torture.” He emphasized that the U.S. is involved in bombings, riots, assassinations, and methods of destabilizing countries in areas such as China, Guatemala, Iran, Cuba, the Congo, Guyana, Vietnam, and Chile. However, “there is a point of secrecy to keep the American public and Congress from knowing the truth.”

According to Stockwell, the CIA has also used Americans as guinea pigs. They have executed disease experiments in California and in Long Island to determine how the area would react to the epidemic. Stockwell, who is in his mid-forties, said that during his career as a CIA agent, “morally, I never changed” but he was forced to do things that were against his morals. He said that he often had to recruit natives in such countries as South Africa to be CIA agents. He felt he may have “stimulated plots that got people sentenced to death” when they were discovered by their government. Stockwell said that he could rationalize his actions for a while as the CIA kept reminding the agents that they were “saving the world from communism.”

Stockwell said that in places like Nicaragua, the CIA agents would convince the recruits that the Americans were protecting the citizens, hence they got knowledge from them. In effect, “they were actually planning a war against the country.” Stockwell recalled some of the absurd instances he noticed in the business. He said that at a National Security Council meeting, “Henry Kissinger pouted and turned his back away from the other members” when he couldn’t sit in his favorite chair. He said that several members were apt to fall asleep in the meeting. Stockwell believes that “the U.S. may be moving towards another Vietnam and is on the brink of war in Nicaragua.” However, he said that the public “should not give up hope.” He said “through vote and political action we can have [such militaristic action] stopped.” He added that we “must reject the paranoia and have guts.” He suggested that citizens get together with local TV stations to discuss the issues of concern, and believes that marches, such as the one on November 12 in Washington, D.C., are a good idea.

Stockwell encourages citizens to “vote down Reagan,” who he feels is too militaristic. He did not, however, advocate draft evasion, saying that “it would be a felony for me to tell you not to [comply with] the draft.” He said that it is important that Americans “think and read intelligently” and not to believe everything they read. Stockwell, after his one-sided case against the CIA, said that “if we can’t solve the world’s problems peacefully...”

---

Wasted Time (Continued from page 1)

vantage in hours gained by lab courses. The only importance of the credit-hours system lay in computing grade point averages according to hours. “The advantages of semesters as outlined by Maloney’s committee [the original proposal] have disappeared, and I wonder if the system remains valid,” said biology professor John Williamson in an interview in the November 11 issue of The Davidsonian. Another factor was the complexity of the administrative and structural change to semesters. The fact that the trimester system works smoothly now provides a powerful argument in its favor. Administrators estimated that three or four years would be necessary to straighten out a new system.

A third difference was the weight of student opinion. During the 1982 meeting, SGA president Tim Johnston presented the results of a student referendum heavily in favor of trimesters. But Johnston dismissed the referendum’s validity as uninformed and defended semesters at the meeting. Biology professor David Grant said in the Special Edition of The Davidsonian that “student opinion was largely removed from faculty consideration by the manner in which that ‘student opinion’ was presented at the crucial faculty meeting.” In contrast, current SGA President Hunter Monroe presented a pro-trimesters petition containing 793 signatures, well over half the student body. Jackson mentioned this in his speech during the meeting. “Student opinion was well represented,” classics professor Mark Davies said. Monroe said that “we [students] weren’t deciding, but we had a voice.” He added that the Dec. 2 special edition of The Davidsonian helped in raising student awareness of the issue.

Reported by David McGee, David Resnik, and Ann Meador