Friday, October 28, 1983 / The Davidsonian 11

Cross Country Weathers UNCC Invitational

By RAND HARTSELL

As many of you may recall, the weather last weekend was nothing like a balmy, pleasant Indian summer day. But for most runners... “Ah, give me a cool rainy day!”

Collectively, the Wildcat cross-country team ran their fastest performance of the year at the UNCC Invitational on Saturday, October 22.

Brevard’s Alphonse Swai capitalized on what appeared to be perfect conditions for him, blazing the nearly all-flat 5.15-mile course in 24 minutes, 21 seconds, a torrid pace of 4:43 per mile. Indeed Swai’s only challenge of the day was at the starting line. His nearest pursuer came through the finish chute 55 seconds behind him.

Davidson’s Frank Ivey followed in hot pursuit of Swai, but by 1/2 mile the Brevard runner had already established a 20-meter gap between himself and Ivey and Wake Forest’s David Crowe. Crowe and Ivey later fell back to fourth and sixth places overall.

Other Brevard runners placed second, third, fifth, and seventh, scoring an impressive 18 points to runner-up Wake’s 73. Clearly, the team race was for second place as host UNCC slipped by the ’Cats for third place with a score of 84 to 89.

As the runners poured across the finish line many Wildcat harriers reacted in much the same way. “Everything clicked,” beamed Bob Watkins; Bryan Zielinski echoed that same comment. Both runners recorded P.R.’s (personal records) for five miles.

Predictably, the 'Cats order of finish was unpredictable. The sixth time in as many meets, the top seven shuffled themselves around to finish in yet another sequence. Following Ivey came Trey Jammes, Greg Foreman, Zielinski, Frank Hague, Watkins, and Jim Rogers. With this new order of finish the 'Cats recorded one of their lowest top seven spreads (2:09) of the year. Although the ’Cats lost to three teams (two by narrow margins), they easily defeated the six other participating schools: USC-Spartanburg, Virginia Commonwealth, Old Dominion, J.C. Smith, Winston-Salem State, and Radford.

The ’Cats are idle tomorrow as they prepare for the Southern Conference Championship to be held at Appalachian State’s course on Saturday, November 5. ASU’s course is in Blowing Rock, a mountain town noted for its unpredictable, often inclement weather. If last Saturday is any indication of the 'Cats preferred running climate, things could look bright on a cloudy day.

Field Hockey Clips Sweet Briar 2-1

By KARA GILMORE

The women’s field hockey team had a lesson in overcoming adversity last weekend. They had to deal with changed travel plans, long van rides, horrible fields, and inclement weather. They came sloshing through it all with a 2-1 victory over Sweet Briar College.

Sweet Briar came out quickly and scored early before Davidson had had time to get settled on the unfamiliar field. The Ladycats grouped up after the goal and fired themselves up to come back. They took control of the ball and the flow of the game and had the Sweet Briar defense on the run. Finally on a scramble in front of the goal after a penalty corner, senior left wing Stephanie Bensinger put one past the Sweet Briar goalie. The goal tied the game at 1 and it stayed that way through halftime.

The entire second half was played in a steady rain which began during halftime, but the Ladycats bore down and kept attacking. Finally with only about five minutes remaining in the game Davidson scored again. Right wing Suzie Klineman barely saved the ball before it went out over the end line then sent a beautiful centering pass across the front of the goal. Inner Mavin Martin was positioned perfectly in front of the cage and deflected the pass right past the goalie for the winning score.

This win left the Ladycats with a record of 5-3-1 at the end of their regular season. This weekend they will travel to Appalachian State to play the season finale — The Deep South Tournament.

- Featuring Carolina Crafts

Wilkins Barbecue and Seafood House

Specializing in Barbecue Beef, Pork, and Brunswick Stew

Also Seafood

1 Mile South of ABC Store in Cornelius

892-3362