Crafting a Performance

Mehta speaks about the conductor’s role

By MIGUEL ABREU

Zubin Mehta, the conductor who has been hailed by conductor Josef Krips as “the next Toscanini,” lent his eminent skill and reputation to establish the Donald B. Plott musical scholarship, which will contribute to the development of outstanding musical talents at Davidson College by conducting an all-Bach concert in Love Auditorium on 24 January.

Zubin Mehta is the Bombay-born and Vienna-educated genius; the youngest man ever to lead a major symphony orchestra and to conduct both the Vienna and Berlin Philharmonics; the music director for life of the brilliant Israel Philharmonic and the successor at the head of the New York Philharmonic of titans of the baton such as Toscanini, Walter, Mitropoulos, and Bernstein. In Los Angeles, where Mehta had his first appointment at the age of 24, he brought the Los Angeles Philharmonic to maturity during his 16-year tenure (1962-1978). In 1978 he conducted his first concert as music director of the New York Philharmonic before 140,000 people in Central Park.

But Mehta did not come alone; he came accompanied by his friend Joe Robinson, the principal oboist of the New York Philharmonic, and by William Workman, the leading baritone with the Frankfurt Opera Company, both Davidson graduates. The presence of Robinson and Workman enriched the already strong historical flavor of this outstanding musical event. Moreover, by appearing before the carefully picked chamber orchestra and chorus, Maestro Mehta broke a fine tradition of systematically refusing guest conducting offers throughout the world.

With this in mind, his answer to the question “What made you accept this particular offer?” was loaded with meaning: “It’s my love and respect for Joe Robinson,” the key person to the organization of this musical festival.

In a short interview after the second rehearsal, Mehta answered a few questions concerning the orchestra, the program chosen, and the language and role of the conductor in general.

Mr. Mehta, how do you approach working with a group of musicians who have never played together and whom you have never conducted?

They are a fine group of musicians, and we are just feeling our way through the first rehearsal. By the second rehearsal it’s already shaping up very well. The quality of the musicians is so high that it’s no problem. Moreover, the soloists are first rate, so there’s really no problem.

How do you approach these works by Bach?

The Cantata No. 56 is a carrying of the cross. It’s very heavy, ponderous, dolorous music, and one has to take it almost operatically because it is very descriptive; it talks about the most inner sufferings of man. Our job is to convince the soloist, or if he has it already like this gentleman [William Workman], to bring all these qualities out. The words are very important. You see, everything we’re doing this evening except for the overture is very descriptive because every note that the baritone sings means something.

Do you follow the same specific routine when you work on a piece of music, or is your course of action determined primarily by the piece in question?

You see, we learn it architecturally. Classical music has to be learned architecturally. You have to know how the composer built the piece. From bigger sections you divide it into smaller sections; then you go into the details. But basically it’s architecture, right up to Wagner.

Could you elaborate on the choreography, the language of the conductor?

It should be as clear as possible. We’re there to help the musicians, there to make their life easier. We shouldn’t make it more difficult by inventing signals that they wouldn’t understand.

Does every conductor have the same basic language?

Yes, the same basic language, but it differs like handwriting.

How is it more than just “louder” and “softer”?

First of all, the composer writes very detailed instructions. When you go to Bach’s period, there are not many instructions; he just writes “loud” and “soft.” But we have to know from the style of the music, we have to guess what the composer really means.

In the study we do before we come before an orchestra, we have to realize and decide exactly what it is that the composer wants to transmit, what is the message. And that’s what we have to impart to the orchestra.

As he was getting ready to leave, Mehta made a final observation.

You know, I believe in the end that the two and one half hours that the public is at the concert, those two and one half hours of that day, the people who are listening to the music are at peace. They may not have been at peace when they enter the hall, or they might have problems after the concert, but I believe during the concert they are at peace with themselves. And that’s important. If we can achieve that much, then that’s important.

That’s important, that’s important, he repeated as he left.

Plott Gala

Attendance: 1,137
Total amount of money raised: $250,000 (approx.)
Ticket prices: $500, $250, $100
Notable Guests:
Past NC Gov. James Holshouser ‘57
Rep. Wyche Fowler ’62 D-GA
Rep. Jim Martin ’57 R-NC

THE DAVIDSONIAN/28 January, 1983