14. Football Preview

Injuries Plague Wildcats

By SCOTT HUIE

Davidson head football coach Ed Farrell, who loves talking football even more than Fat Albert loves playing it, pauses for a moment during an interview in his office. From his desk drawer, he pulls out two items, the 1983 media guide and the 1983 schedule card, one in each hand.

“You know, when I thumb through this,” he says as he flips through the media guide, “I am very optimistic about our prospects for the upcoming year. Overall, our personnel is better, as we simply have more good athletes than we've had in a long time. But then I glance over here at our schedule card, and I become a bit pessimistic. Heck, we play some awfully tough teams.”

Get used to it, coach. For the first time in ten years, Davidson will compete in the rugged Southern Conference and consequently will be eligible for the championship, if we dare to think that far ahead. Although their conference schedule this year includes only Furman and the Citadel, three other games will be counted in the Southern Conference standings—games against Lafayette (Sept. 17), James Madison (Oct. 1), and South Carolina State (Oct. 15).

As evidence of what the Southern Conference is all about, take Davidson’s game against Furman, the only Southern Conference opponent the Wildcats faced last year. Furman won 63-14, but it could have been much worse had the Paladins’ coaching staff not put in their club football team in the second half. True, Furman won the championship, but you get the picture. The Southern Conference is serious football.

Errors Cost Cats 21-7 Loss to Wofford

By SCOTT HUIE

Without any hesitation, Keith Martin insists that Wofford’s left defensive end was on the line. Freshman Mike Cate, who made the block, agrees. “Hey, if that guy was downfield, then I'm O.J. Simpson.” Well, Mike, we'd better start calling you the Juice, at least according to the referees.

With Davidson down 21-7 early in the fourth quarter, Martin connected to split end Jeff McSwain on a slant into the Wofford one-yard line, signaling what seemed to be the start of a comeback reminiscent of the one two years ago. The referees, however, had other thoughts, ruling that Cate had made an illegal block downfield. The ball was brought back to the 25, and Davidson never recovered.

Of course, hindsight is always much clearer. On paper, the Wildcats should finish either 2-8 or 3-7, being the clear favorite against Guilford and Catawba, and a toss-up against Newberry. It gets tough after that: Wofford, Lafayette, James Madison, South Carolina State, Citadel, Furman, and Bucknell. Such teams find themselves in IAA top 20 rankings with alarming regularity. But as the old sports adage goes, stranger things have happened, so Wildcat fans should not immediately scream “Wait until basketball season.”

Farrell speaks keenly of his defense and points out his offense should not be written off either: “We could very easily pull off some upsets if teams aren’t careful.”

The Wildcat defense revolves around the two rocks, senior linebacker Will “Stone” Bynum and junior defensive end D.E. Wright, who both have solid shots at all-conference honors. The defensive secondary, though young and inexperienced except for junior cornerback D.D. Wright, is the quickest and deepest in recent memory.

Concerning the offense, Farrell says, “Our overall philosophy has always been to come with a balanced attack, but...”Somehow, I think we just might pass a little more this year. We don’t have that really physical offense that is going to pound out 90-yard drives at four yards a crack.” Keying this attack will be senior quarterback Keith Martin, who, according to Farrell, has “great commitment as well as the attributes.” The running game will definitely be bolstered with the return of injured halfback David Turner, a bolting colt whose athletic prowess has hardly made it past the practice fields due to injury. Dangerous, and such judgment calls might simply fall into the category of “home field advantage.” Nevertheless, it is interesting to think what could have been. What was, however, was simply a 21-7 loss to the NAIA 8th-ranked Wofford Terriers. If it is any consolation, Davidson lost to them last year 54-0. Said Coach Ed Farrell, “The opportunity...”

Those breakdowns came early in the second half. On the third play of Davidson’s possession, Martin’s pass was picked off at the Wildcat 20-yard line. Wofford marched it in from there. Breakdown number two came a couple of minutes later. Punter Jay Poag lofted a long spiraling punt deep into Wofford territory. Davidson’s punt coverage team, however, must have spent too...

In fact, injuries have plagued the team all preseason. Nothing epitomizes the situation more than at center, where converted defensive tackle Mike Marbert is expected to start after four other candidates either fell to injury or did not return to the team. Add to the injury report the fact that the Cats only play four home games and the outlook is rather bleak.

As the Wofford return man juked around all 11 shirts, the last man to have a shot at him, Poag, claimed he got “Herscheled” around. After that 70-yard TD run, Davidson could never regroup. Offensively, the bright spots were McSwain’s catching and Cate’s running, which accounted for 70 percent of the Cats’ 215 yards of total offense. Despite two costly fumbles — “freshman mistakes” according to Farrell — Cate showed flashes of brilliance that might cause Wildcat fans to forget the name Ray Sinclair. The freshman gained 72 yards on 13 carries and bounced off would-be defenders with remarkable ease. He also returned four punts for 38 yards, returned a kickoff 16 yards, and completed a halfback pass for 10 yards. Mr. Versatility will be a welcomed addition to the backfield.

On defense, the stopper, Will Bynum, provided his usual steady performance with 18 tackles and one interception. In tomorrow’s home opener, the Cats face the Lafayette Leopards, who are ranked 6th nationally in Division 1-AA by Sports Illustrated. In last year’s meeting between the two teams, Lafayette was the destroyer, 49-14, and this year’s squad appears even more formidable. Their backfield boasts two 1,000-yard runners and a potential All-America quarterback who Farrell calls “the best in the business.” Defensively, they specialize in stopping the run (last week, they gave up a minus 22 yards rushing!) but appear vulnerable to the pass. Watch out for Martin’s aerial attack. If he can consistently hit the open receiver, things could get interesting.

Huie’s Prediction: Lafayette 34, Davidson 20.