Friday, November 4, 1983 / The Davidsonian

13 OPINIONS

Reagan’s ‘Free World’ In Central America

Dr. Brian Shaw.

Currently on display in the Union Gallery is an exhibition of revolutionary posters and other artwork from Nicaragua. The exhibition was assembled by David Craven and John Ryder, art historians at the State University of New York at Cortland, and is scheduled to appear at other campuses and galleries throughout the South. This is an engaging and provocative display. Students and faculty alike would do well to reserve an hour or two to view this artwork.

The attitude of Craven and Ryder toward their materials and towards the new society of Nicaragua is hopeful and sympathetic — as well it should be. The program notes which accompany the exhibition are unfeignedly supportive of the Nicaraguan struggle for national self-determination. Prominent sections of the notes trace the course of Nicaraguan history from the first invasion by the United States armed forces in 1912 to the present assaults on the country by contras funded and armed by the United States. Craven and Ryder are concerned to present this history to American viewers of the exhibit, for the peculiar experience expressed in the posters is a century of often brutal economic and political domination of Nicaragua by the United States. To the casual viewer, the posters might seem propagandistic and militantly defensive. This quality, however, as the notes make clear, reflects not some unwonted paranoia on the part of the Nicaraguans, but their very real fear that the United States may soon act on its threats against their country. These threats have been sharply escalated in recent months by the Reagan administration.

The Sandinistas, who came to power in 1979 after a long and bloody struggle to free Nicaragua from the rule of the American-backed dictator, Anastasio Somoza, are under siege. In addition to economic sanctions and increasingly bellicose verbal abuse by the United States, the Nicaraguans suffer almost daily terrorist attacks by bands of former Somoza national guardsmen. These counter-revolutionaries, contras, cross over into Nicaragua from their sanctuaries in Costa Rica and Honduras to pillage, murder, and rape. They are armed and supplied by the United States. Special targets of these roving terrorists are teachers, health workers, and lay and clerical workers of the Catholic Church who are active in raising the standard of living of the Nicaraguan peasantry. During the last few weeks, the activities of the contras have expanded to include aerial bombing and other violent sabotage of Nicaragua’s fragile economic infrastructure. Bridges, roads, electric facilities, pipelines, and oil storage tanks have been destroyed. Emboldened by their recent success, the contras have threatened to destroy any ships transporting oil to Nicaragua.

The contras have enjoyed not only weapons and material support from the Reagan administration, but indirect American military support as well. This summer, U.S. armed forces conducted joint exercises with the Hondurans off the coast of Nicaragua. Almost 20 American naval ships, including two aircraft carriers and a battleship, 140 warplanes, and 16,500 personnel practiced mock bombing runs and a naval blockade of Nicaragua. On land, about 4,000 American soldiers took part in field maneuvers. These soldiers remain in Honduras today. They are engaged in constructing a substantial Honduran military infrastructure which includes extended military landing strips and naval facilities. All of this activity, needless to say, alarms the Nicaraguans and increases their well-founded fear that the United States is preparing an armed invasion of their country. Their fears have certainly been intensified by Reagan’s refusal to seek a diplomatic settlement to the conflict and by Grenada. Like the Grenadans, the Nicaraguans believe that the United States will hold up the fig leaf of anti-communism to cover its naked use of American military might to guarantee its sphere of special interest in Latin America.

What is likely to happen, in fact, is that sooner or later a Nicaraguan army or militia unit will follow a contra group in hot pursuit across the Honduran border. American soldiers wandering through the area will be shot, and the United States will use the incident as a justification for launching a “defensive” invasion of Nicaragua. In the Nicaraguan view, the goal of the invasion would be no less than the complete reversal of the political and social gains made by the Nicaraguans since the revolution, and the reinstatement of a military dictatorship more congenial to U.S. interests.

The fears of the Nicaraguans should be our concern as well. Since 1979, the Sandinistas have acted to improve the welfare of the peasants and other formerly oppressed classes who make up the vast majority of the population. In the words of Father Alvaro Arguello, the representative of the National Association of Clerics to the ruling Council of State, “For the first time in the historical existence of our people...sectors are represented which have historically been abandoned, marginalized, disregarded and exploited in Nicaragua, which is to say the popular sectors.” Furthermore, contrary to the allegations of the Reagan administration, this improvement has come about without any attempt by the government to completely socialize the nation’s wealth. Roughly 80 percent of the arable land remains in private hands, as does 75 percent of thenation’s productive capacity. The consequence of these measures—taken in the face of awesome destruction caused by the war against Somoza and the continuing assaults and sanctions against Nicaragua—is overwhelming popular support for the Sandinista government. (In contrast, the former American-supported dictator treated the persons and possessions of his subjects as convenient sources for his personal enrichment. Before he was forced to flee the country, Somoza owned or controlled dozens of cattle ranches and plantations, the National Insurance Company, the national airline, and an entire shipping port on the Pacific coast. When he arrived in Miami in July 1979, U.S. sources estimated Somoza’s wealth at $900 million.)

Still, for all its accomplishments and popular support, the revolutionary society of Nicaragua is in grave danger. A prolonged and public Bay of Pigs is now in progress, with little outcry against it by the American public. The Reagan administration, typically intolerant of attempts at genuine national self-determination within its sphere of influence, and emboldened by this apathy and by its recent “success” in Grenada, will almost certainly intensify its attacks on the people and government of Nicaragua. The revolutionary society and culture of Nicaragua have been badly misrepresented in this country by a hostile administration and a compliant press. We owe it to the Nicaraguans—and to ourselves—to hear what these people have to say in their own voice. We should avail ourselves now of the Nicaraguan artwork on display in the Union Gallery. For if Reagan has his way, by this time next year there will be no art of an independent Nicaragua, for that country will have been forced once again into the ranks of the murderous despotisms which comprise the “free world” of Reagan’s Central America.

Shaw is Mellon Assistant Professor of Political Science.

For Whom The Bells Toll
David Resnik

Time was made for slaves.
— John B. Buckstone in Billy Taylor

As the ringing hit the air one morning, one schizophrenic writer was heard screaming:

“The Bells! The Bells! The Bells! They would not stop ringing even when I covered my ears; I ran as far as I could, but I could not escape them. I heard them in my sleep; I saw them in my dreams. Ringing, ringing, ringing, ringing until morning comes.”

I don’t like being constantly reminded of the time, but it’s getting harder for me to escape it ever since the DCPC bells started ringing four times an hour. It was okay when the Chambers bells rang twice an hour, but these new bells are too much. I think about the time more often now, and as a result, I spend less time actually thinking about what I’m doing. Every time the bells ring my class stops. Sometimes the professor will pause in the middle of a lecture; sometimes students will look whimsically at each other or out the window; almost everyone acknowledges the presence of time.

Instead of waiting for the buzzer at the end of the period, I wait for the halftime bell and the five-minute warning bell (the one that rings at a quarter till the hour). The five-minute warning bell is the worst of the two: as soon as it rings students stop taking notes and professors start thinking about their second cup of coffee in the faculty lounge. The real effect of all this ringing is that my time is broken up into smaller blocks: I think of my life in fifteen-minute periods instead of fifty-minute interludes. I spend more time waiting for the next event to happen because there are more moments when I am made aware of time. And since I spend more time waiting, I have less for work or play. As a result, my whole segment of time becomes diminished when broken into parts.

Needless to say, the bells do have their good points. You can use them to find your way home if you're lost on the jogging trails. Also, the clock and the bells make the Chambers lawn seem like London on a foggy evening. And at least the bells aren't pre-recorded, yet; they sound like genuine church bells.

With the war in Lebanon, the invasion of Grenada, and self-selection at Davidson, one would think I could find something more valuable to write about than time. Well, I don’t think that time is trivial—it is a powerful tool that shapes our lives—but an excessive attachment to time leads to triviality. As we move in clockwork we begin to think in clockwork. I don’t want to move like a clock. I use time as a yardstick to measure my life, but in doing so, I realize that it limits me. I would like to pretend that my nows last forever, that my whole life is one big day, but the bells remind me that I’m getting older all the time. I can laugh in the face of death, but time is always there to shut me up.

Well, until the bells stop ringing I'll have to run away before they shut me up.

Resnik is a junior philosophy major from Chapel Hill, N.C. and is Executive Editor of The Davidsonian.