The Davidsonian / Friday, April 22, 1983

From the Locker Room: ACC All Stars
By STEVE SOUD

Don’t judge a book by its cover, don’t judge a conference by its champions. Friday night I had the opportunity
to “coach” (I use the term loosely) an all-star team of seniors from Davidson, Catawba, Pfeiffer, and Wingate against an
ACC all-star team. Only once (the Boston College point-shaving scandal) since the Chicago “Black Sox” scam of 1919 had there
been a more remarkable rig job than this game. It was a tawdry example of what big money sports can
become.

The fans had barely placed their big toe in the gym before the money changers beset them. On sale were
ACC hats, ACC shirts, ACC bumper stickers, ACC posters, ACC you-name-it. After the fans packed themselves in tiny Mooresville High
gym, the salesmen peddled their paraphernalia into the stands. The almighty dollar reigned supreme.

With everyone seated and waiting for their favorite ACC star to loom on the horizon, some clown (and I don’t
mean the kind with a funny suit and makeup) played cheerleader and attempted to teach the Mooresville crowd ACC cheers.
“UVA! UVA! UVA!” The players gradually trickled in and sauntered onto the court. Our favorite MC greeted Doug Newberg (Virginia)
and Chip Engelland (Duke) with their respective cheers, and then he ventured near my spot on the bench. “Are we
gonna do any Davidson cheers or are you only catering to the ACC?” I asked indignantly. He mocked me through
the microphone, “Somebody wants to know if we’re gonna do any Davidson cheers.” No response. Then he delivered a lengthy
address to the crowd preparing them to greet N.C. State players Bailey and Whittenburg with a thunderous “Hello Thurl! Hello
Dereck!” in unison. The two stars skipped the gym and took a roundabout route to the locker room. Revenge was
sweet.

The ACC all-stars were wearing red, white and blue (what else?) jerseys with ACC All Stars inscribed on front. When
my team came on the floor, they wore light blue, also with “ACC All Star” jerseys. Eventually the referees came
in and informed me of the rules: all man-to-man, only one time out and that in the last minute of
the game, and they weren't going to call many fouls. There was even a makeshift, masking-tape three-point line. They told
me all this was for the fans. The only thing they didn’t have for the fans was the 30-second shot
clock.

I started Horace Fauntleroy (Pfeiffer) at point, Lonnie Hines (Wingate) at shooting guard, Bob Vannoy (Catawba) at forward, Cliff Tribus
at forward, and Maurice McDaniel (Catawba) at center, not so much because they were the best five but because it
represented the most schools. My bench consisted of Richard Wilson, Brian Rowan, Gary McDonald, and Cleveland McCray (Catawba). Ours was
the better team, given a fighting chance. In one instance Whit tackled Fauntleroy before a foul was called. I asked
Horace what sparked the conflagration and he said he had hacked Whit on the elbow, forcing the mighty Dereck to
shoot an airball. I thought Whittenburg was class until then; he really could have hurt Horace. As the game progressed,
the touch-fouls got called on us, the tackle fouls on them.

The halftime dunk contest was indicative of the “home job” going on. Each team was to have three dunkers, winners
to be judged by crowd applause. Already a disadvantage. I had to beg to get three guys out there. Tribus,
McCray, and McDaniel went for us; for them, Jim Braddock (UNC), Craig Robinson (UVA), Thurl Bailey and Alvis Rogers (Wake
Forest) — that’s right, four for them, three for us. Cliff tried the most imaginative dunk — a between-the-legs, off-the-backboard
top-dunk that didn’t go down. Robinson did a pretty dunk for them. (Braddock couldn't dunk without hanging on the rim.)
In the second round, Cliff did a Sampson-style shot that sent the ball bouncing from the floor back past the
rim. When they announced the finals, it was Robinson and Rogers, who had impressed none save his mother. Cliff had
been robbed. Robinson won, however, on the best dunk of the night.

By the end of the evening we resigned ourselves to defeat. Cliff and Brian gained some consolation with two dunks
apiece. We even pulled to 109-105 with 4:30 left (all the Davidson guys were in), but I had to substitute.
(I could only substitute on dead balls; the ACC subbed after baskets. They called time out.whenever they wanted.) We ended
up losing 131-119, or thereabouts. Dereck and Thurl had a grand time. When a teammate got fouled, Dereck came over
to our bench and yelled to us and the crowd something about karate and “It’s like Kung Fu out there.”
Thurl had five or more slams. Unfortunately, hundreds of kids didn’t have such a grand time. They paid $5.00 to
get in, and then, goaded by the emcee, bought $5.00 pictures for the champs to sign. Oh yes, they signed
some, but then asked for a dinner break, saying they'd return to finish up. They never came back. The kids
waited for hours. It was unconscionable.

Despite Declining GPA’s

Men’s Tennis

Women’s Tennis Seeks NCAA Bid

Slams ETSU

By STEVE SOUD

The women’s tennis team, reputedly having the best team GPA on campus, is hoping to ruin their painstakingly built 3.5-plus
by flunking their exams. Actually, they don’t so much hope to flunk their exams as they do to miss them.
With a lot of wins and a little luck, they'd like to be in California at the NCAA Division III
national championships there from May 9-14.

Here’s the trick: an NCAA committee of five people picks the top eight teams in the nation to go to
California. They give an additional at-large bid, which is probably Davidson’s best shot. The team figures UNC-Greensboro is their prime
competitor for a berth. As for their chances, senior Leesa MacPhail figures, “Since we just started in NCAA Division III,
we don’t play anyone in that division, so that’s gonna hurt us.” However, she notes, if the whole team doesn’t
get a bid, individuals may.

Although the team is 16-5 thus far, Joanna Flemming is 12-2 in that stretch. She and doubles partner Tricia Ives
are 13-1. “That’s our most consistent team by far in doubles,” said first-year coach Carolene Brown. The numbers one and
two doubles teams are about .500. Individually, said Brown, “We have high percentages in just about everyone.” That’s easy to
do when several wins come 9-0.

“It would help us to do well,” Brown continued, “to have good performances against ETSU and Appalachian because they’re Division
I NCAA, as is Furman University. Furman University will be the last match of the season; I’m excited it is
the last match of the season. One, it’s a Southern Conference school; two, it’s traditionally a very strong match. It
goes down to the wire.” She added, “I love having the other team cope with clay. It’s a slower type
of game. You're in the point much longer, and it demands ground strokes. You have to sit on the baseline
and stroke the ball. You have to have a good, fundamental backhand and forehand.”

The women have had no problem with their ground strokes this week. On Tuesday they beat Pfeiffer 7-2, and they
followed that up Wednesday as they riveted Anderson Junior College, 8-1, in an exhibition match. Yesterday they won handily over
East Tennessee, 6-3. Monday they’ll get in another Division I match against Appalachian, snowed out from last Monday. In the
meantime, the women will continue to build their winning percentage, all the while hoping to ruin their GPA.

By TIM MCGAUGHEY

The Men’s Tennis Team battled to a 2-2 record this week making the ‘Cats record 14-8. The Cats split the
two non-conference matches, defeating Washington and Lee 9-0 over the weekend before falling to South Carolina Tuesday. These matches bring
the racketeers into the tough conference schedule and end non-conference record at a healthy 11-6.

The team also split two Southern Conference matches. Saturday the Paladins of Furman defeated Davidson 8-1. Yesterday the Cats came
back with power. Reversing last year’s 9-0 defeat at the hands of East Tennessee State University, the Cats rebounded for
an 8-1 victory. ETSU came in with a 20-8 record but the Cats beat the high-strung opponents. Coach Jeff Frank
explained, “I told the team that we were playing on clay and to be patient. ETSU is not patient enough
and gets overanxious.” The strategy paid off and the Cats scored one of their most impressive victories over an angry
ETSU team.

Three tough matches against Appalachian State, Marshall, and University of Tennessee-Chattanooga face the team in their last week of the
season. Joyous over yesterday's wins, Frank said, “We really needed this one to get ready for the [Southern Conference] tournament.”
