2 Friday, September 30, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Davidson Music Professor Shares in Victory

Davidson — Assistant professor of music at Davidson College, James G. Swisher, was the accompanist for Barbara Westphal of Newark,
Del., who won top honors in this year’s international viola competition held in Munich. Westphal, a member of the Delos
String Quartet currently in residence at the University of Delaware, is a West German native who has studied under Itzhak
Perlman and Michael Tree. When it came time to pick a pianist to perform with her in Munich, she called
on her old friend James Swisher. Their musical collaboration dates back to 1976 and 1977, when they were graduate students
at Yale. As two of the members of the Burle Marx Trio then, they toured the U.S., Brazil, and West
Germany. The competition in Munich included four stages. Westphal performed for the judges once alone, twice with Swisher at the
piano, and once with orchestra. The winner normally is invited to appear as a soloist with orchestra, but the judges
were so impressed with the Westphal-Swisher combination that they invited the two to present a chamber recital instead.

S.A.T. Scores Drop Again

(CPS) — The hoped-for continued rise in Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) scores has failed to materialize this year, the College
Entrance Examination Board reports. This year’s college freshmen’s scores rose one point on the math section of the SATs, but
fell for the first time in three years on the verbal skills portion. The just-released study of 1983 SAT scores
of nearly a million college-bound students found the average score rose to 468 from 467 in 1982. The average score
on the verbal test fell from 426 in 1982 to 425 in 1983. Total average test scores rose for the
first time in 19 years last year, triggering hopes that a long trend upward would begin. But this year’s verbal
test score average is only one point above its all-time lows of 424 in 1980 and 1981. The high school
class of 1963 recorded the record high average of 478. “This year’s slight drop in verbal scores, plus the implications
of the long-term decline, may mean that schools need to pay closer attention to developing such skills as reading comprehension
and other verbal reasoning abilities,” observes Robert Cameron, the College Board’s research director. But “television, outside reading, serious conversation, cultural
activities or the use of telecommunications rather than writing” influence verbal development as much as schoolwork, he adds. The one-point
rise in math scores “seems to imply that positive things are happening in the nation’s schools,” says College Board President
George Hanford. But this year’s math average is still only two points above the all-time lows.

Anglican Organist to Perform at Davidson College

Davidson — Organist Murray J. Foreman of Hampton, Va. will perform at a vesper concert at 8 p.m. Sunday, Oct.
9, at Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The program will include works by Froberger, Bach, Hugo Distler, Louis-Nicolas Clerambault, and Marcel
Dupre. Foreman is the organist and choirmaster at St. John’s Episcopal Church in Hampton, the oldest Anglican church outside of
England. He previously held similar positions at Culver Military Academy in Indiana, and at St. Mark’s Cathedral and School in
Salt Lake City. Foreman is a graduate of Oberlin College and holds the master’s degree from Eastman School of Music.
He has done additional study at the Indiana University School of Music, and formerly taught at Keuka College in New
York. The concert is sponsored by the Davidson College department of music, and there will be no charge for admission.
The concert also will be broadcast live on the Davidson College radio station, WDAV-FM, at 89.9 on the dial.

Davidson Students Enter Real World

Yellow signs reading “Thieves on the Loose...Lock it Up” have appeared in Davidson dormitories this fall, and more students now
carry their room keys instead of leaving them in their rooms. Incidents of strangers on dorm halls and increased thefts
have sparked these trends. Associate Dean of Students Sue Ross attributes the thefts to the temptations which arise at the
beginning of any school year. Saying that “a good chance” exists that Davidson students are responsible for some of the
thefts, she pointed out that “we are dealing with people who aren’t perfect.” Ross said that students should report immediately
any unfamiliar people to either Campus Security.or the Dean of Students. “Be careful,” she said. “Stop anybody on the hall
who doesn’t belong there.”

Dorm Senators, Freshman Senators Elected

The SGA held fall elections Tuesday and runoffs on Wednesday. The winners are as follows: Jim Reaves and Bill Hall
were elected senators of Little and Duke dorms respectively. Mark Sandy was elected to represent Belk dorm, and Holly Gaston
was elected Richardson senator. Peter Astapchik was elected off-campus senator. Christie Johnson and Kerry March were elected freshmen class senators,
and Chet Barksdale became freshman class president, an office which automatically goes to the freshman candidate with the most votes.

General elections were held on Tuesday from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the Chambers building and at the Post
Office. Freshman runoffs between the top candidates were held on Wednesday at the same time. The balloting was described by
the Head of the S.G.A. elections committee, Ester Kim, as “pretty heavy”. “It is the freshman class that always turns
out the most in these elections,” she said. Although she described the voting turnout at several of the dorm races
as “very poor,” she noticed a conspicuous interest in several of the races, particularly the off-campus election, and a substantial

Computer Company Undergoes Reorganization

Prime Computer, Inc., the company which sold Davidson its computer system two years ago, has suffered from declining earnings and
inaccurate profit predictions which have damaged the faith of investors and analysts on Wall Street. Also, Kenneth G. Fisher, founder
and president of Prime until 1981, has recruited Prime’s six top managers and executives for his new computer company, Encore.
Prime allegedly reported a 45 percent drop in earnings per share of its stock in July (Wall Street Journal, July
18, 1983).

“Prime has and still is one of the better firms in the industry. You just can’t keep doubling $400,000,000 profits,”
a spokesman for Prime said. Davidson’s computer center director John Casey said that he is not alarmed about Prime’s situation.
“We have had no recent news from Prime. My understanding is that they just got some bad press about their
profit projections being wrong,” he said.

Axxess, a software firm which serviced the College’s software needs, went bankrupt last May. But another company in which Davidson
owned stock bought Axxess, Casey said. Many computer companies are coming off a period of high growth and are experiencing
diminishing profit margins, he said. For example, Apple Computer’s stock dropped nearly 40 percent over the summer, according to analysts.

“Our growth couldn’t keep going,” said Brantley Edwards, Prime’s regional manager who services the computer here. “Prime has had phenomenal
success in North Carolina, and we are investing more here in the form of sales and maintenance personnel. We just
sold 60 machines to the state’s community college system. So, I don’t think you have to worry about Prime going
out of business or cutting service in North Carolina,” Edwards said.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000 ext. 149 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, North
Carolina 28036. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: David McGee, Assistant News Editor; Chet Barksdale, Andy Clark, Jackie Daughtry, Roxanna Gulford, Wayne Magruder, Bruce Plourde, Greg
Smouse, Sarah Smith, Julie Sternal, Aaron Taylor, Lisa Thomas, David Van Pelt, Elizabeth White, Ted Wilson

Features Staff: Miguel Abreu, Brian Butler, Stewart Cauley, John Gathings, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris

Sports Staff: Scott Huie, Assistant Sports Editor; Boyd Blackburn, Kara Gilmore, Pam Harmann, Rand Hartsell

Photography Staff: Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael Dent, Caryl Dawson, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Mike Jester, Laura McGee, Carroll Overton, Mike Snell,
Bruce von Stein

Anderson Scott, Ann Meador, Editor; David Resnik, Executive Editor; Ross Holt, Managing Editor; Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor; Lentz Ivey, Business
Manager; Dan Voorhis, News Editor; Kelly Sundberg, Features Editor; Steve Soud, Sports Editor; Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor; Paul Kowert, Advertising
Manager

Staff Artists: Ann Hunter, Wilson Lowrey, Alva Moore, Susan Norman

Circulation Staff: David McCurry, William White

Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Kevin Horan, Rob Hollenbeck

Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Lou Hamilton, Debby Williams

Copy Editing: Christine Jackson
