w The Davidsonian / Friday, April 29, 1983 13

OPINIONS

Positive Coexistence
Fraternities Seek to Neither Judge nor Stifle
Hartley Hall Ellis Tinsley

In the past few months, there has been a growing awareness regarding the operations and future of Patterson Court. This
concern has taken the form of copious articles, open forums, and extensive dorm room debates. While this heightened awareness is
evidence of a campus wrestling with important human issues, it appears of late that the prevailing sentiments being expressed tend
unevenly to one extreme. Compelled by a sense of justice and a strong belief in the comprehensive interchange of ideas,
we wish to remind the campus of the inherent values of the fraternity system.

At the outset, it is important for the reader to dismiss the "Animal House" stereotype of fraternities. Unlike the fictional
characterizations to which we have become accustomed, the four nationally affiliated fraternities on Patterson Court make outstanding contributions to what
Duncan Fraser called in his article last week, “the best interests of the college community as a whole.” Phi Gamma
Delta and Sigma Phi Epsilon are deleted here only because they do not operate under the Self-Selection system, nor are
their facilities located on Patterson Court.

From social life to community service, the fraternity houses provide valuable opportunities found nowhere else on Patterson Court. For example,
in addition to numerous open parties and campus-wide social events, the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity participated in the Special Olympics,
raised money through a haunted house, and coached youth teams for the North Mecklenburg YMCA. For a school in Kenya,
PiKA held a “Buck-A-Tuck,” “Match-a-Pledge,” and a disco in addition to assessing members a set amount. They sponsored a Crop
disco for World Hunger, a bike-a-thon for Muscular Dystrophy, and ran a booth at the community carnival.

At the Phi Delta Theta house, over seven social events were held open to the campus. Also, the Phi Delts
run a Home Missionary Service in which members perform household tasks for shut-ins in the community. Sigma Alpha Epsilon threw
over five social events open to the campus during the year. SAE raised $1,500 for Kenya schools through a bike-a-thon,
and $4,500 for a book fund in the E.H. Little Library with the receipts from their campus events calendar sales.
A group of members visit the Huntersville Hospital every other week. In the future, SAE will hold a tug-of-war for
Muscular Dystrophy and play basketball with Huntersville prisoners on a weekly basis.

Finally, the Kappa Alpha Order held over ten open social functions ranging from small post-game gatherings to campus-wide band parties.
With regard to social service, KA runs the town of Davidson Glass Recycling Program, sponsors the Sigma Christian Fellowship, goes
Christmas caroling to the homes of elderly Davidson families, and plans an Adopt-A-Grandparent program for the fall. En route to
a $3,500 contribution to Muscular Dystrophy, KA sponsored a thirty-mile Dribble-A-Thon, held two MD discos, and undertook a tee-shirt sale.

The contributions of these houses come in addition to the leadership skills which are brought to the campus through national
workshops and institutions. Without fraternities, many of these projects would not be carried out in their present unique and effective
form, and in most cases would not be executed at all.

Let us not attack a viable, effective, and enhancing system on the basis of an inability to placate all —
no human system has achieved this. The fraternity system neither judges nor attempts to select “superior” people, for this would
be a presumptuous endeavor. Fraternities do not pass judgment on character nor do they brand personalities as “unacceptable.” Rather, encouragement
of membership in a particular house should be based on the perception of the members as to an individual's ability
to function and mesh well within that environment.

Houses should be allowed to maintain the association of personality which would grant them, in a congenial atmosphere, the cohesion
necessary for dynamic operations. Realistically, all human beings make choices eradicated. Indeed, at present, there are eating houses which prosper
with substantial...waiting lists as other struggle for survival. And it appears evident that this situation would continue under a pure
and unadulterated self-selection system. Under a pure self-selection system, a college which prides itself on the importance of human relationships
would be willing to have the social future of its freshmen class depend on nothing more than physical facilities, food
quality, and computer randomness. How sad it would be to take a system responsible for the benefits described above and
undermine its high spirit, educational value, and ability to do for others to a level of common mediocrity.

To those who would see the fraternity as a group attempting to set itself above students, to stifle those unacceptable,
we would say that an overwhelming majority of this campus neither holds nor desires membership in a fraternity, as to
those with whom they wish to associate closely on the basis of a perception of personality. Whether or not a
Davidson student “having been selected... from among hundreds of applicants” as President Spencer said, is a superior person is not
the issue. Davidson College is not the “small, residential... cohesive, close-knit community which fosters a centralized and homogeneous pattern of
campus and social life” as some would have it. It is rather, as the 1983-84 catalog states, a campus of
“global perspective... seeking to enroll students from a variety of racial, economic, social, religious and geographic backgrounds.”

There are those who would seek further diversity in social and service organizations and alternatives abound. We would submit that
in the face of this diverse environment, there is indeed a need for identity with a group of allied concerns.
Allowance must be made for those who seek a more close-knit social environment. If indeed, it is exclusivism which is
undermining the other houses on Patterson Court, then we must stop and ask ourselves why. Surely houses which are able
to make such valuable contributions in the name of the College and the campus as a whole base their successes
on something more than a mere “ego boost.” There is no doubt that affiliation with national organizations provides experiences for
the individuals, strength for the houses, and exposure for the College. Perhaps we should spend more time strengthening Patterson Court
as a whole rather than attacking a small but successful part. It is neither possible nor realistic to think that
under any system natural competition among houses could be eliminated.

We do not pretend to have all the answers to this complex issue. We wish, as we have said, to
remind this campus of an institution of tradition and its positive contributions. To those who have been hurt by this
system, we would suggest that a much more honest approach to the entire situation would alleviate almost entirely the problems
now faced. To those who would claim that a Christian man should not judge his brother, we would say that
selectivity is not necessarily judgment. Rather, as we have said before, it is the right of each house to define
its own personality and maintain that personality which would provide the group cohesion necessary for effectiveness in the pursuits aforementioned.

To those who would see the fraternity system as a group attempting to set itself above its fellow students, to
stifle those unacceptable, we would say that an overwhelming majority of this campus neither holds nor desires membership in a
fraternity. If Davidson College is to remain an institution committed to Christian ideals and the advocacy of positive influences within
human society, then we have but one course in the solution to this and other issues which we face at
this time. We must strive for a realistic coexistence with our fellow students; not calling in an emotional tone for
the eradication of a very positive system but working towards a solution which can encompass goodness and bring about greatness
for all. The challenge is ours.

Hall is a sophomore economics major from Richmond, Va. Tinsley is a senior pre-med major from Wilmington, NC. Both are
members of KA.
