The Davidsonian/Friday, April 1, 1983

13

OPINIONS: Sale of Public Forests Harmful

David McGee

No, I am not an irate environmentalist writing an “I hate James Watt” article. But I am concerned about the
Reagan Administration’s proposed sale of 71,000 acres of forest land in North Carolina. The controversy over Reagan’s environmental policies did
not catch my attention until I realized the changes could affect my home state, North Carolina.

Anyone who has driven north on I-77 in the fall has experienced the serenity and beauty of the North Carolina
mountains at a special time of the year. 22,000,000 people visited the North Carolina mountains in 1982, which indicates that
the recreational enjoyment and benefit the mountains and forests provide North Carolinians and many out-of-state travelers is indeed unmeasurable. Beyond
their aesthetic value, North Carolina’s forests meet other essential needs, serving as a habitat for wildlife and as an area
for the development of watersheds and timber.

Perhaps the latter two functions need explaining. A watershed is a large land area which holds rainwater, and gradually allows
it to run off into a lake or stream. Presently, there are thirteen watersheds located on public land in North
Carolina. Watersheds prevent floods and create a constant flow of water year-round. As for timber development, the U.S. and State
forest services harvest timber by employing selective cutting, a method of removing timber without damaging the entire forest. Most importantly,
the forests of North Carolina are valuable resources which make possible our standard of living by retaining topsoil and providing
a reliable water supply.

Christianity

Neal Biggers

I am writing in response to the article “A Christian View on the Arms Race” in last week’s paper. My
primary concern here is not to argue for or against the nuclear arms race (although my position will be obvious)
but rather to point out some of the perversions of the basic Christian ideals that were made in an attempt
to give Christian support to the arms race.

The article said that the suggestion by Jesus to “turn the other cheek” (Luke 6:29) is valid only when one’s
confronter is also willing to turn the other cheek. This would certainly make it easier for people to follow Jesus’
suggestion; unfortunately, this misses the whole point of his statement. The context of the statement, as well as the many
examples found within Jesus’ own approach to life, show that he was in full support of a unilateral turning of
the cheek. Jesus was referring to a passive acceptance of the abuses offered by others along with continued love and
praying for the abusers. I think that Jesus was pointing out the fact that retaliation leads to a continuous cycle
of revenge which can only be broken when one party “surrenders” or decides to passively accept the abuse without revenge.
The whole idea of nuclear weapons as a deterrent is based on the proclaimed willingness to use the weapons in
retaliation if necessary — a proclaimed willingness to discard this Christian teaching. This type of selective adherence to the teachings
of

But the North Carolina mountains have not always been as fertile as they are now. Around the turn of the
century, the forest land in North Carolina, as well as in other parts of the country, was in horrendous condition
due to poor management and severe soil erosion and exhaustion. The Pisgah, Nantahala, and Uwharrie National Forests have taken form
as a result of decades of planning and land acquisition by the State and Federal governments specifically for the restoration
of damaged forest land, the creation of watersheds, and public use.

But now the Reagan Administration wants to reverse this trend by opening up sections of forest land for private development.
For example, the President’s Asset Management Program proposes to sell ninety percent of the Uwharrie National Forest, 46,767 acres out
of a total of 52,353 (Charlotte Observer, March 20, 1983). The forest service has never recommended such a large sale
before, nor have the people of North Carolina demanded it.

One reason behind the planned land sales is that forest service officials have had difficulty acquiring privately owned tracts of
land surrounded by publicly owned land. But the Reagan Administration has cut funds for the purchase of these isolated holdings.
Instead of supporting the forest service’s intentions, the Reagan Administration wants to abandon efforts to acquire enclosed property and market
much of the land now in public possession. Why should the Government sell public land when there is already enough
non-public land available for privateuse? Apparently, the Reagan Administration will apply the gained revenue towards balancing the federal budget. But
this practice could set a bad precedent for future administrations: raising funds for governmental needs by liquidating public land. Jim
Dockery, chairman of the N.C. Chapter of the Sierra Club, projected the effects of the proposed land sales in a
March 20 interview in the Charlotte Observer:

"The Reagan plan to dispose of part of our forests would impact upon North Carolina, if it were successful, by
reducing our recreation lands, by paring the ability of the forest service to continue to improve their boundaries and potentially
even affecting our water resources, depending on where the tracts are located." Also, because of the predicted population increases for
North Carolina before the next century, public lands will be vital in sustaining the livelihood of North Carolina’s people.

Last, I think an example of what can happen when a private owner controls forest land will show how risky
Reagan’s proposal is. There is a large tract of land an hour’s drive from my home where I have camped
and backpacked since I was eleven. A private organization owns and maintains it as a wilderness reservation, much like a
national forest. Several years ago, an adjacent land owner began cutting timber on one side of a mountain which he
claimed to own, but actually did not. One fall I remember viewing the mountain in dismay, half of the mountain
covered with trees and the other half haphazardly bulldozed so that the red earth was exposed. Later, both parties agreed
to a co-ownership of the mountain, and the damaged half of the mountain was re-seeded and cleaned up. Fortunately, this
dispute did not result in permanent damage to the land. Yet, under the Reagan Administration’s plan, an individual could purchase
a tract of land and cut down all the timber on it with no concern for the water supply of
a nearby town. Forest management is best carried out through public means because private owners often lack the resources to
maintain land properly. The Reagan Administration must realize that opening up public land for private development may bring more harmful
effects than benefits.

McGee is a sophomore from Winston Salem, NC

---

The Arms Race: A Reply

Another problem with the article in question is that it presumes that an effective nuclear deterrent is the only way
to maintain an acceptable balance of power. From a Christian point of view, this is not necessarily true or even
relevant. Jesus was in full support of a unilateral turning of the cheek. Jesus was not concerned with the kind
of power represented in the political manipulations of peoples using force and threat. The only power he was interested in
was one in which people were persuaded by reason of example — examples of love, forgiveness, and unselfish sacrifice. True
Christians would strive to follow his example. The article’s presentation of our side as the good side and their side
(presumably any side opposed to us) as the evil side shows an attitude more akin to recent statements by President
Reagan than to the teachings of Christ. I find nothing in Jesus’ teachings against holding personal opinions or preferences regarding
one form of government or certain economic policies. Even a willingness to give one’s life for these ideals is not
necessarily contrary to Jesus’ teachings, but to take the chance of killing another for the sake of one’s ideals is
in direct opposition to Jesus’ teachings and example. Making life and death decisions for other people is a responsibility that
Jesus reserved for God alone.

The article in question bases its arguments on historical and present responses to threats and fears by people who claim
to be Christians. I feel that this is a dangerous approach to take because of the weaknesses and “sinfulness” of
even the best Christians. I have tried to go more directly to the source of Christian standards for response to
such difficult situations in life — the teachings of Jesus himself. Admittedly, Jesus’ teachings were very idealistic and seemingly impractical
for the evil world in which we live. But to be a Christian means to live and act on the
faith that these Christian ideals are worth striving for and even making sacrifices for. Whether or not there are good
reasons for using deadly weapons to defend what we believe in, the reasons are not to be found within Christianity.

Biggers is a senior from Eagle Springs, NC
