12 Friday, April 1, 1983 / The Davidsonian

By STEVE SOUD

Saturday afternoon a hero quietly retired from the basketball court of the Dee Events Center in Ogden, Utah, thousands of miles from his home in Harrisonburg, Virginia. As Ralph Sampson entered the locker room, he left behind a jubilant N.C. State Wolfpack, which had just snatched from his fingertips a 63-62 win and a berth in the Final Four. Although he was taking off his white UVA uniform for the last time, his painful career was not yet over — he had to face once more the ravenous sports media and answer their trite questions. Saturday afternoon — and for four years — a hero deserved better.

Sportswriters are the cruelest predators. Most are failed athletes with a second, better talent. They stalk young athletes and tear them apart before the eyes of thousands, sometimes even millions. On Tuesday an athlete is a basketball savior; on Friday he’s the devil incarnate. So it has been with Ralph Sampson for the last four years. There in the interview room on Saturday, it was painfully evident that the sports media had placed too many of their own expectations on Sampson. He had failed himself, yes — but he had more so failed their expectations for him. For that, they have verbally crucified him.

Four years ago, when Sampson was a high school senior, he put the Shenandoah Valley town of Harrisonburg, Virginia on the basketball map as programs across the nation panted and drooled over his slender, 7-4 frame. From that time on he hasn’t had a moment’s peace. It was a big deal when he signed with UVA. He came to Charlottesville and found “Ralph’s House” painted on the Coliseum. In his first year there, the press coolly permitted his “freshman mistakes,” but they acknowledged greater expectations for the future. They constantly pursued the sheepish Sampson — “P.M. Magazine” sat in on his classes as if to prove the behemoth could learn more than a hook shot. As the years progressed and the championships didn’t occur, the media incessantly ridiculed the young man brought up in a one-television-station town and a large, quiet family, the young man jittery before the bulbous camera eye. The media forgot his 123 wins, remembered his 12 losses.

Those 123 wins represent far more than an amazing, three-digit win column. Sampson did things many of the greatest collegiate athletes never do. The press vilified Herschel Walker — the Sampson of college football — for dropping out of school at the lure of millions of dollars. Although the NBA dangled multi-million dollar contracts before Sampson, he had the guts and personal direction to stay in school. Remember Sam Bowie? He should be graduating this spring, too. Sampson was everything he was touted to be; Bowie was last seen sitting on the Kentucky bench, doing nothing for the Wildcats. And there’s always Pat Ewing, who, some say, is already Sampson’s superior. Georgetown wasn’t in the Regional finals.

But Ralph himself is in many ways beyond comparison. I was always flabbergasted at his chin-to-the-rim dunks, his slap-the-ball-to-half-court blocks, his high-flying hooks, and his I-can’t-believe-that turnaround jumpers. Perhaps never before has so much finesse and power been packed into one basketball player.

Finally, the press may say that Ralph Sampson was his own problem. When Sampson was on the court, the four supporting players seemed to leave the game up to him. Only Ralph could take charge. But when Ralph was off the court, it was as if they had something to prove. Someone else could take charge. The Cavaliers beat Houston without Sampson; against Boston College they turned a one-point lead into an eleven-point lead without him. One could say there were two faces to the Cavaliers this season. One cannot rightly say, however, that, when it counted most, Ralph wasn’t there. Down the stretch against N.C. State in the West Regional finals, Sampson scored 11 of his team’s last 14 points. In a nightmarish, Edgar-Allan-Poe sense, the last twenty-three seconds of Sampson’s career were a microcosm of the whole. Down by a point and needing a basket to win, Sampson, with defenders stacked up against him, watched helplessly as a teammate missed two shots.he finally did get the ball, he put it through the hoop, but it was too late, the buzzer had sounded, time had expired. If, as I believe, athletes are examples of excellence for the rest of us to follow, then Ralph Sampson illustrated a beautiful example Saturday afternoon. After four years of shouldering (alone) often-undeserved abuse from an unfeeling media, he took the time to answer their questions. For that, on Saturday — for a whole career — a hero deserved better.

Sports Trivia Quiz
By PETER BURR

1. Everyone knows that Bill Wambsganss is the only player in MLB history to record an unassisted triple play in the World Series. Now the trivia. Who is the last player to record an unassisted triple play in regular season play?

2. Everyone knows that in 1919 several of the Chicago White Sox players were involved in a scandal to throw the World Series. Now the trivia. Who beat the White Sox in the 1919 World Series?

3. Everyone knows that Eddie Gaedel was the “Midget of St. Louis” when he wore number 1/8 for the Browns in 1951. Now the trivia. Who was the player that pinch ran for Eddie after he walked?

4. Everyone knows that Willie Mays made the well-remembered back-to-the-plate catch in the 1954 World Series on the warning track and still held the runner at third from scoring. Now the trivia. Who hit the long ball that made the play famous?

5. Everyone knows that Roger Maris hit 61 home runs in 1961 to set the Major League single-season record. Now the trivia. How many times was Maris intentionally walked that year?

6. Everyone knows that Jackie Robinson was the first black player admitted to the major leagues when the Dodgers signed him in 1947. Now the trivia. Which was the last major league team to obtain a black player? For bonus points, give the player’s name, position, and year he first appeared in the majors.

7. Everyone knows that Ron Guidry, while compiling a 25-3 record in 1978, tied the American League record for shutouts by a southpaw in one season. Now the trivia. Whose record did he equal?

8. Everyone knows that Rollie Fingers holds the major league record for most career saves (301). Now the trivia. Who holds the major league record for most saves in a single season?

9. Everyone knows that the Braves played in Boston and Milwaukee before settling in Atlanta. Now the trivia. What other major league team has played in three different cities?

ANSWERS
1. SV purl -yeo /AYD sesueyyerydjopeyiyd e4L
2. ELOL ‘SE ‘J°1ITH BYoL
3. s.iyny oqeg °/ 6S61
4. Ss ‘us0IDH aisduing
5. XO§ poy UO}SOg
6. wy sulyoq poyneq spur, Kayo ‘QUON
7. SUBIPU] PULA ‘ZUOMA IIA
8. BuIsjaq Wf
9. Spoy WeuUIOUID oy], °Z
10. R961 ‘Puelaaz|D "A UOJUIYSeA, ‘SS ‘UVSURHR UOY

Davidson Relays Highlight Track Season
By BOYD BLACKBURN

The Davidson Relays, an invitational track meet involving nearly fifty men's and women's teams from as far away as New York, will be held here this Friday and Saturday. The meet has been the highlight of the track team’s season for the past 24 years. New coach Gwen Harris is looking forward to a strong showing from the team. Jeff Carter, a 6'10” high jumper, will be very competitive. Only three jumpers in the meet have cleared 7’. Laura Hills, who last week set school records in the 400m and long jump, will be one of the top runners as will Frank Ivey in the 1500m.

The team started working out in October. It’s a small team with only 8 women and 22 men. They are not a threat to win the meets they’re in because of their size and an acute lack of field event specialists; they won’t compete in enough events to qualify for the championships. Coach Harris has instead stressed individual achievement and has pushed each runner to beat his or her best mark. She also realizes the need for a team concept and spirit, especially in the relays. She said, “They’ve been very responsive to the things we’ve been doing. The team is going to grow.”

SPRING IS HERE
And so are spring shirts by: Sero, Duffel, Holbrook, Levi's, Munsingwear, Loafers’ Glory, Van Heusen, and Woolrich
Downtown Mooresville