The Davidsonian/Friday, September 16, 1983

Con Artist Takes Associate Dean For $150

By DAVID MCGEE

“He was shaken and upset and needed help. He was crying and saying, ‘Why did God do this?’ He was very convincing,” said Associate Dean of Students Sue Ross about a man calling himself Ozzie McMillian, who this summer impersonated a student in trouble.

On July 20, McMillian came to the Chaplain’s office here and asked for “Charlie.” The chaplain, Charlie Summers, was not in, so the man was referred to the Dean of Students’ office. McMillian told Dean Ross his story. Wearing a Furman hat and jacket, he said that he had just transferred here from Furman University, and that he was a basketball player living in Huntersville. He had just heard from his ill grandmother that both of his parents had been killed “in an automobile accident in Montgomery, Alabama by a drunk driver.” He had just enough money for a plane ticket, but he needed a little more to cover other expenses for the trip to his parents’ funeral.

Ross said she spent about an hour with him, trying to comfort him “in a moment of pain.” But her assistance was all in vain. The whole incident was a hoax. Charles Edward Williams, 24, of Charlotte, not Ozzie McMillian, Larry Thompson, or any of the other assumed names Williams is said to have used, has allegedly told similar stories to 40 colleges and institutions which authorities believe he has tried to trick out of an undetermined amount of money. He had approached officials at the University of South Carolina two days before and at Furman on Tuesday before coming to Davidson. Sometimes his parents had died in an accident in Utah, sometimes California.

When he came to Davidson, Williams was on probation from a previous conviction and was supposed to be earning money to repay previous institutions he had obtained from illegally, Ross said. After giving Williams $150 cash, which Ross took from a student aid account of the Dean of Students’ office, she offered to take him to the airport and went to get her car. When she had returned with her car, Williams had disappeared and had told a secretary that Ross had told him to meet her in front of the M & M Soda Shop on Main Street.

“That’s when I began to get suspicious. I had one of the secretaries call the gym and the admissions office and they said that he [Williams] was not an athlete or a transfer student here. It seemed to be a pattern, so I called other places,” Ross said.

Williams called back after Ross had talked with officials at Furman who said that Williams had been there the day before with a similar story. He thanked her for her kindness, told her that he had found a friend who could take him to the airport, and asked her to call him later that evening at the phone number he had given her earlier.

“I then told him that I was disappointed that he had taken advantage of me. He still tried to convince me that he was telling the truth. His story was very well documented. He knew basketball players’ and school officials’ names and names of people he said he knew here on campus,” Ross said. “He could be the number one salesman in Charlotte if he wanted to. In an hour’s time I went from helping someone in need to feeling foolish and taken.”

Union Director Chosen

By DAVID RESNIK and SUSAN FORE

Davidson College has found a new man to walk in former Union Director Shaw Smith’s footsteps — former Assistant Union Director William Brown ’70. Brown served as Assistant Union Director from 1976-79 and therefore feels “very familiar” with the job of Union Director.

The Union Director “should be a good supervisor, a good advisor and a good listener. He should respect students’ abilities and advocate a strong student-run organization,” said Brown.

Brown has spent the past year interning at other college unions. He said that other unions are bigger with more emphasis on money but that the Davidson Union has more of an emphasis on programming. Of all the unions he has worked for, Brown says that the Davidson Union has the widest variety of service, with seventeen committees organizing separate activities.

Brown intends to continue the programs that Smith established and proposes no major changes in Union policy (except those required by the new drinking age law) until he becomes more familiar with the demands of Davidson students. Said Brown of Smith: “C. Shaw Smith is one of the great people in the Union field. Shaw made this place work.”

The College offered Brown the director’s job.In mid-June, he began work on August 9. His contract expires in two years, but Brown would like to keep his job for at least three to five years. Brown was born on September 24, 1948, in Richmond, Virginia. He graduated from Davidson in 1970 and is now married to Davidson graduate Mary Jo Clark '71. "Someone told me that now I have learned my lesson. Well, I hope I haven't learned my lesson. I hope that this experience will not make me callous and suspicious of people in need,” she said.

Ross called area schools to warn them about Williams, including Wake Forest University, about 70 miles north of Davidson, where he appeared the next day. A woman in a campus store identified Williams from a notice describing him and his practices. He found his way to the chaplain’s office and started his familiar routine. This time, his parents had been “killed” in Utah. When taken to the squad room, Williams attempted to assault an officer, said Alton Hill, director of Public Safety at Wake Forest. Williams was later convicted in Forsyth County Superior Court for assaulting an officer and sentenced to serve. Williams is currently in the Mecklenburg County Jail awaiting trial for charges of false pretense and failure to comply with probation. In addition, he is wanted in Union County on charges of obtaining property under false pretenses and in Greenville, S.C. on charges of false pretense. He is being held in lieu of $9,000 bond. During his trial, school officials here hope to recover the money Williams received, Ross said.

Trustee Thelma Adair Faces Dual Challenge
By AARON TAYLOR

To the Trustee of the Month, Thelma Davidson Adair, Davidson provides a dual challenge. She is one of only two women and the sole black on the Board of Trustees. Adair received her doctorate from Columbia Teacher’s College and now resides in New York. She is currently Professor of Education at Queens College in Brooklyn, New York. Her experience as a trustee goes beyond Davidson. Twice before she has held the position at the Union Theological Seminary in New York and at Johnson C. Smith University in Charlotte, North Carolina. She believes that a “trustee has a responsibility to the board and to the community” but requires an intimate knowledge of the college and the students. “It takes time to become seasoned. I want an opportunity to visit classes.” Her interests transcend academics; she is a member of the Trustee committee for Student, Religious, and Campus Life.

Religion has played an important role in her life. In 1977 she was moderator for the 188th General Assembly, United Presbyterian Church — only the second woman ever to hold that position. She now is the national president of Church Women United. The two-to-one male-female student ratio on the Davidson campus concerns Adair. “Women represent more than 53 percent of the [world] population, and I think we limit ourselves when we don’t use the expertise of the widest possible range of people,” she said. Adair says she is comfortable at Davidson, but she recognizes some inherent problems. “I think being a woman moderator of the United Presbyterian Church, and my black roots give me personal interest and commitment.” Adair’s parents were born in Mecklenburg County. She attended Barber-Scotia and Bennett Colleges in North Carolina and completed doctoral studies at Columbia University Teachers College. She has spent most of her life in New York. However, she spurns the label of “New Yorker,” and calls herself instead “a Tar Heel with world experience.”

Thelma Adair

This experience includes extensive service in the Presbyterian Church (USA). During her early days “up north,” Adair shared ministerial duties with her late husband, founding in the early 1940s a church in Harlem which provided services for children, families, and the elderly. She recognizes a particular career interest in today’s students because of the uncertainty of economic conditions. To women students, she emphasizes the need to always ask the question, “Who am I?” She commented, “In order to become consistently productive, contributing persons in the society, women must not be discouraged in their pursuit of historically non-traditional professional and career opportunities.” She sees no need nor room for conflict between the liberal arts and the computer. Already in her own work, she has seen the computer as a valuable tool in educating handicapped children. Students are deserting notebooks for cassettes, she says, and the challenge is how to best maximize computer efficiency in this “Atari Age.”

Adair has one son who is a doctor and another who is a seminary student. Her daughter works in the insurance industry. She also has four grandchildren. The Davidson College Communications Office names the Trustee of the Month.