The Davidsonian/Friday, April 15, 1983 7

Downtown Merchants Propose New Mall

By FRANCES HAMPTON

Davidson downtown merchants and property owners met on Monday for review and suggestions of a first-draft proposal of the town’s
pedestrian mall now in the planning stages.

Mayor Nancy H. MacCormac, who chaired the meeting in the Piedmont Bank conference room, expressed enthusiasm for a project destined
to transform the downtown business district of Davidson. One person at the meeting termed the mall the most exciting thing
to happen in Davidson in 25 years.

The audience listened intently as Bill Nicholls of Dellinger and Lee Architects explained the initial plans.

Nicholls, town leaders, and merchants have met frequently in an effort to assemble a workable set of plans conducive to
the needs of those involved.

The pedestrian mall development behind the Main Street stores is contingent upon several factors, including funding from both public and
private sources.

On the drawing board for phase one is a new post office building that will likely be ready for occupancy
in early 1984. The complex of shops and stores will eventually stretch from the Town Hall to Depot Street, with
some sort of central courtyard as a focal point. This too would likely be a part of Phase I and
future development would then follow as more people became interested in the project.

Studio Restaurant

coming soon

Breakfast special: 99¢ served anytime

salad bar

stuffed potatoes quiche homemade soups

sandwiches video games

lunch and dinner specials

CATERING - PARTIES

127 Depot Street 892-3110 College checks accepted

Nicholls envisions landscaping with light posts and benches, brick walkways, and the possibility of grouping utility items such as transformers,
electric meters, and garbage dumpsters for convenience and serviceability.

Parking for customers is of major concern, with a projected need of five spaces for each 1,000 square feet of
shopping space. The Town of Davidson currently has only one parking space for each 1,000 square feet.

Maps on display in Piedmont’s Conference Room were removed after the Monday meeting and taken to the Town Hall for
further discussion at Tuesday night’s Town Board Meeting.

(From The Mecklenburg Gazette)

Evangelist Minister Visits Campus

By DAVID RESNIK

“My purpose is to introduce people to the closest friend I have, Jesus Christ,” said Cliff Knechtle '76 concerning his
reason for visiting Davidson this week.

Davidson Christian Fellowship sponsored Knechtle’s four outdoor evangelism meetings on campus this week. He spoke at the quad area created
by Belk and Richardson Dormitories, the laundry and the Commons on Wednesday afternoon, and between Phi and Eu Halls on
Thursday morning. Knechtle will also speak in the quad this afternoon and at DCF’s open group meeting tonight at 7:00
p.m. in the Morrison Room.

As a specialist working for Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship, Knechtle has held meetings on college campuses across the country for the
last several years.

Using examples from the Bible and everyday life, Knechtle said he stressed five major issues during his talks: “What is
the meaning of life? Why is there reason to live? Is there an ultimate morality? Is there life after death?
Who is the real Jesus Christ?”

More than one hundred people attended his speech on Wednesday afternoon. Knechtle said that the Davidson audience responded well, but
audience reactions have ranged from “strong opposition, to receiving Jesus Christ,” he said.

Knechtle visited UNCC and Emory earlier this week and Duke and N.C. State the week before. His next stop is
Purdue. He travels with his wife Sharon.

Knechtle says he didn’t always believe in God; he had a conversion experience as a child. One day he walked
down the stairs in loneliness and asked Jesus, “If you are the truth, I want to know.” After that time
he said he no longer walked alone.

After majoring in history at Davidson, Knechtle attended the Gordon-Conwell School of Divinity in Boston where he earned his Master
of Divinity.

You can spend six weeks at our Army ROTC Basic Camp this summer and earn approximately $600. If you qualify,
you can enter the ROTC 2-Year Program this fall and receive up to $1,000 a year. But the big payoff
happens on graduation day. That's when you receive an officer's commission.

So get your body in shape (not to mention your bank account).

Enroll in Army ROTC. For more information, contact your Professor of Military Science.

BE ALL YOU CAN BE.
