4 Friday, April 1, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Financial Aid Remains the Same
By DAN VOORHIS

Financial aid to students for 1983-84 will remain at the same level as this year despite governmental attempts to cut
it. According to Assistant Dean in charge of Financial Aid Kathleen Stevenson, Congress did not approve the massive decreases in
campus-based federal funds that were proposed by the Reagan administration last year. Reagan failed in his effort to slash student
aid by 50 percent. For the next fiscal year at least, all money channeled through the individual college will maintain
at its present level.

This aid includes the Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants, National Direct Student Loans (90 percent Government funded), and the College Work-Study
program (80 percent Government funded). The Pell Grants and State Student Incentive Grants will continue at their present rate. However,
the Guaranteed Student Loans have been considerably reduced from 1981. Previously, almost anyone could obtain one; now, the student’s parents
must earn less than $30,000 per year or the student must demonstrate need.

With the College tuition rising eight percent and the government assistance remaining constant, or in some cases shrinking, students will
probably require more aid. “Davidson College will continue to fund 100 percent of demonstrated need,” said Stevenson.

The College applies to the federal government each year under the SEOG, NDSL, and Work-study program. The amount it receives
is determined by a complex formula including the number of students deserving aid. These are called federal college-based funds. Davidson
will receive $51,000 for the SEOG and $116,000 for work-study.

Individuals receive Pell Grants from the federal government. A person fills out the FAF and is placed on an eligibility
index to determine the amount the applicant may receive. The total is ascertained from student ability to pay and the
college tuition.

Presidential Search (continued from page 1)

Between meetings, the committees will meet separately to evaluate the qualifications of the candidates. After their meeting in April, the
search committee hopes to begin interviewing the few selected candidates. All committees have played an equal role in the process
so far. “There is totally equal access for the students, and they will participate in the interviewing,” comments Craig. “Every
meeting I’ve gone to, the Student Committee is right there,” said Economics professor Charles Ratliff.

The Trustee Presidential Search Committee makes the final decision, over the Faculty and Student Committees. However, according to the Constitution
of Davidson College, Article 1: “The President is appointed by the Trustees to serve for such term and on such
conditions as they consider appropriate. The Trustees shall establish procedures to assume that Trustee Presidential Search Committees have consultations with
Faculty, Students, and the Administration Staff in carrying out their Committee function.”

Potential Presidents must have a strong religious commitment and be affiliated with the Presbyterian Church, according to Article IV of
the Trustee Bylaws. “They [the Trustees] shall elect only a person who is a loyal and active churchman, giving evidence
by his life on the strength of his Christian faith and commitment. Such faith and commitment will be appropriately expressed
by his affiliation with the Presbyterian Church in the United States and his active participation in the life of the
College Church.”

Faculty Salaries (continued from page 1)

A professor comes to fulfilling the criteria of “1) excellence in teaching, 2) demonstration of superior professional attainments in research,
scholarship, and curriculum design, and 3) exemplification of the intellectual and moral values for which the College stands.” A professor’s
teaching ability is judged by evaluations submitted by the professor’s department chairman, colleagues, and students. The Code states that “among
the key components of successful teaching are well-organized and stimulating lectures, skill in conducting discussions, the imagination to perceive student
problems, and the ability to help students learn.”To think analytically and logically.” In judging teaching abilities, Zimmermann is using the
ICES for the last time. The influence of student opinion will “lessen dramatically” due to the discontinuation of the forms,
he says, despite the importance which the Code gives to student evaluations of an instructor’s teaching ability. As a result,
the new prose evaluation forms which the faculty adopted will greatly diminish his ability to discern student opinions.

The College judges a professor’s professional attainments chiefly on the basis of his colleagues’ evaluations and gives all manner of
advanced study and research due consideration. Unlike a great many schools, however, Davidson does not award salary increases relative to
the amount of work that a professor publishes. The process here is much more subjective, since quality is supposed to
be given more consideration than quantity.

In judging “intellectual and moral values,” the Code requires an examination of the instructor’s concern for students, service to the
College, and general community service. “Concern for students may be exemplified by the professor’s availability to students, concern for their
problems, and care and promptness in evaluating their work.” Performance “as a faculty adviser both to underclassmen and to majors”
is also considered.

The Code goes on to classify service to the College as “participation in the work of faculty committees and in
departmental affairs, willingness to speak to groups of parents, trustees, or alumni, and helping to build the library collection and
to obtain needed equipment.” The Code describes the necessary community involvement in much more vague terms, defining it as activity
in churches and service and political organizations.

The salary decisions involve a “whole knowledge of the faculty built up over the entire year,” said Zimmermann. The final
salary recommendations are merely the last stage in a year-long process of active evaluation. Since he has not yet completed
the salary recommendations for President Spencer, Zimmermann cannot say what next year’s average salary or average salary increase will be.
This year’s average salary is $27,869, and the average salary increase from the 1981-82 school year was 11.6 percent for
continuing faculty.

Zimmermann points out, however, that the salary is only one component of an instructor’s compensation. The benefits computed into a
faculty member’s total compensation include full health insurance, tuition grants for their children, a mortgage interest subsidy, and possible use
of College-owned housing. With the value of these benefits added to his salary, the average Davidson professor will receive $34,500
this year. (See chart.)

Still, this figure is lower than the compensation offered by some other schools of Davidson’s caliber. Average faculty compensation at
Duke for this year is $43,192; at Williams, $39,288; at Bowdoin, $36,015; and at Princeton, $43,009. Zimmermann, however, claims that
Davidson’s low cost of living greatly reduces this disparity. In a memorandum prepared for prospective faculty, he cites a 1981
study by the American Chambers of Commerce Researchers Association which shows that Charlotte “had the lowest cost-of-living index of any
city covered in the survey in the 200,000-400,000 population range.” Among the cities more expensive to live in than Charlotte
are Durham, Raleigh, Winston-Salem, Nashville, and Houston. The memorandum states that “the figure for Davidson, if available, would be even
lower than that of Charlotte because of the difference between small-town and city living.” The cost-of-living index is based on
the cost of groceries, housing, utilities, transportation, health care, and “miscellaneous goods and services.”

As he nears the end of his task, Zimmermann knows that it will be impossible to satisfy everyone completely. Complaints
about salary should be directed to him or Spencer. When asked about complaints, he said that they are rare. Zimmermann
and Spencer oversee the grievance procedure.
