4 Friday, March 18, 1983 The Davidsonian

By TIM MCGAUGHEY

The Y Student Service Corps held Y-Week March 14-18. The week’s activities were designed to enhance student awareness about the campus service organization. Y President Doug Ammar ’84 hopes that this week of activities will “communicate what the Y is and what its activities are to the student body.”

On Tuesday, the Y-SCC sponsored the CROP lunch, proceeds from which will go toward the elimination of world hunger. Later in the evening, the Furman University Y-SSC, which draws 80 percent student participation in activities, shared ideas with the Davidson Y-SSC.

At a Y-sponsored Open Luncheon on Wednesday, Director of the Community Center Kathy Dews and Recreational Director Isaac Applewhite discussed the needs of Davidson youth. Wednesday afternoon, students, faculty, and the community all met on the Chambers lawn for a New Games tournament.

Yesterday, the Y-SSC co-sponsored a Depot lunch at the Senior Citizens Center where Kathy Dews spoke about the Community Center. Campus leaders met at a dinner Thursday night in the DuPont Room for an organizational meeting aimed at coordinating the scheduling of campus events and improving communication between student groups. Ammar hopes the group will meet “at least once a term and sponsor an activity a term.”

Finally, tonight at 9 p.m. at the Pi Kappa Alpha house, the Y will co-sponsor a CROP Dance-a-thon. A $1.00 entry fee will go to the CROP fund for the fight against world hunger.

Tuition Increase (Continued from p. 1)

Educational costs of the College; endowments provide another 24 percent. While students and parents may dislike the extra cost, those students on financial aid will not suffer. “We will continue to fund 100 percent of demonstrated financial need,” said Associate Dean in charge of Financial Aid Kathleen Stevenson. Need is determined by a complex formula in the government-issued Financial Aid Form.

The amount of aid which Davidson grants varies according to the number of eligible individuals. This sum has increased to compensate for the diminished federal Pell Grants and Guaranteed Student Loans. “Surprisingly,” said Stevenson, “the federal campus-based funds remained about the same.” The campus-based funds include the Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants, National Student Loans, and most of the money for the work-study program.

The tuition increases over the last few years have seemed high, but this has had no effect on the number and quality of students who apply. In fact, applications rose 25 percent since last year. Davidson now ranks as the most selective school in the South based on the number of applicants accepted (30 percent). “It is our endowments, our dedicated alumni, and our location that allows us to keep costs down,” said Dean of Admissions John V. Griffith. Duke raised its prices 62 percent from ’79-80 to ’83-84, with tuition now at $10,338. Princeton,the Davidson of the North, charges almost $13,000. At the same time tuition rises, so does faculty and staff compensation. According to Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann, the increase will not be across the board but based on merit. Zimmermann and President Spencer will evaluate faculty according to the Code of Faculty Evaluating Procedures. They should come to some decisions in the next several weeks.

Humanities Evaluation (Continued from p. 1)

On February 21 MacCormac resigned as director of the Humanities program. On February 22 College President Samuel R. Spencer sent a letter to the faculty explaining the Administration’s position. Spencer said that “while there had not yet been meetings with the staff as a whole, Dean Zimmermann had discussed various aspects of the consultants’ report and possible future directions of the program with the two present directors of the program, the two immediate past directors, and the four members of the staff liaison committee to the consultants.”

Spencer acknowledged that “the appointment of one person to head the program rather than two” was not “discussed with the Humanities staff as a group.” He concluded that “any decision on ultimate leadership” will be postponed “until after the Humanities staff has had an opportunity to work through a revision.” Spencer admitted that “it would have been desirable to have the entire Humanities staff participate in the decision” but maintained that “there is nothing in the Constitution which mandates formal consultation.”

Polley feels that it is “unfortunate that we [the Faculty and Administration] ever had a conflict,” though he still maintains that “adequate consultation had not taken place.” MacCormac has “absolutely no bitterness over the affair. It’s over as far as I’m concerned,” he said. MacCormac only regrets that he “didn’t make it in the Davidson book of records” for the shortest term in office. Former Head Basketball Coach John Kreese holds the record, resigning one week after accepting the position. MacCormac resigned after two weeks.

Self Selection (Continued from p. 1)

preserve it. But we need the cooperation of the students,” Currie agreed. He said that the Court must have long-term financial stability to survive, and that requires a commitment on the part of students. For this reason the Dean’s Office encouraged the PCC to institute individual contracts for each member this year. The contracts stipulated that a member agree to eat at the house for a full year or pay a fine for leaving. There was some controversy concerning this contract on the Court, Terry said, but he felt that this sort of thing is necessary to assure financial stability. Currie said, “The luxury of just assuming that you'll drop out [of a house] spring term senior year is no longer there—this can really hurt a house.” The individual contracts were not required this year because the PCC felt that they did not have the power to enforce them, but Terry said that the Dean’s Office and the Business Office would stand behind the PCC contracts.