16 Friday, September 16, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Inexperience Tests Davidson Soccer Team

By STEVE SOUD

They are fast becoming known as “the winning team,” and that is not without good reason. Of Davidson's major spectator
sports, Davidson soccer was the only one able to boast a winning record last year. In fact, their 11-4-4 record
earned them distinction as the 11th ranked team in the South.

The Wildcats face the 1983 season (again) as the 11th-ranked team in the Southland and are within striking distance of
the elusive Southern Conference Championship. This year, however, the Southern Conference, in its infinite wisdom, has thrown a new obstacle
in the path of Davidson’s would-be ascension to the championship. The SC split the soccer league into two halves, auspiciously
named the Northern Division and the Southern Division. Davidson now resides in the North, which consists of Marshall, Appalachian State,
and VMI. (Incidentally, those were the top four teams in the league last year.) The South consists of UT-Chattanooga, the
Citadel, Furman, and Western Carolina. (East Tennessee has no soccer program.)

Head Coach Charlie Slagle, two years ago the conference Coach of the Year, figures, “Whoever wins the North should be
the best team. I think the teams in the North are better than the teams in the South. On the
other hand, you have a one-game playoff which anyone can win.”

Slagle has the personnel to win the coveted championship. Like most good teams in any sport, the Cats have a
solid foundation in their defense. Tri-captain Pat Woodward, a second team All-Conference pick last year, will anchor the goal. Behind
him are freshmen Jim Kelley and Steve “Ana” Condor and junior Mike Lufkin, who will also play forward. Playing in
front of Woody is junior sweeper Jim Wright, an intensely dedicated defender who scored four head-ball goals last year. Senior
Tri-captain Dan Blood and junior Dave Flowers, both machinelike in their endurance, will play the outside fallbacks. At stopper, the
top of the diamond, sophomore Bill Coxhead will step in. Although Coxhead is new to the position, Slagle has no
reservations about the move, as “Coxhead is a good, strong, dedicated-type player.”

Senior Tri-captain Peter Burr will anchor the midfield along with sophomore Wallis Goodman. Both are very capable players with good
speed. “On offense,” Slagle points out, “we're just young.” With two juniors—Mike Mauzé and Steve Bernhardt—and two sophomores—Tony Cabrales and
Sean Austin—the offense at first appears suspect. All four, however, have enjoyed significant amounts of playing time. Austin, for instance,
once in peak form, could be nearly unstoppable.

Offensive Strategy

The offense will center around ball control, with a focus on Mauzé’s passing skills. He should get quite a few
assists. Austin, Bernhardt, and Cabrales flank him with excellent one-on-one skills. However, Slagle notes, “We don’t have a Chris Roberts
to whom we can look for the big goal.” Thus the key to the season may be how well the
strikers play. “Overall team defense will be helped if the offense is more potent.”

If there is a single potential weakness looming ahead, it could be the bench. Lufkin is the “fifth striker” on
offense, but freshmen Brian Shorkley and Steve Stith constitute the remaining substitutions. That situation is not as weak as it
appears—Shorkley had a key assist against Guilford last Saturday. Both will help the team as they gain experience. Sophomore Boyd
Bleckley, who played well Saturday, and freshmen Chris Jones and Sean Moser are the chief reserves at halfback. The airtight
defense should need few substitutions. So, despite the fact that the team will start four sophomores and only three seniors,
it is capably manned. Where people are not seasoned, they are experienced.Where they are not experienced, they are talented. The
team will spend most of its time in a 4-2-4 configuration but will occasionally slip into a 4-4-2 or 4-3-3.
“Mike [Mauzé] and Tony [Cabrales] are both center-forward types,” explains Slagle. “Thus the 4-2-4 alignment is ideal for them. It
also maximizes the potential of the strong defense. As always, the team will stress 11-man offense and 11-man defense. This
year’s schedule is a little tougher than last year’s, as some of the most difficult games are away. The team
kicked off its season Wednesday against No. 2-ranked Duke, and the homestand continues tomorrow against Western Carolina. In the past
three years, Davidson has beaten Western by a total of three goals, and the Wildcats are 3-0. Other key home
games are against Appalachian State on Parents Weekend and Furman for homecoming.

Tournaments Ahead
The Cats are also entering two tournaments, which they'll play back-to-back later this month. The weekend of the 24th and
25th, the team will travel to Hampden-Sydney to play in a tournament they won in their last appearance there two
years ago. On the 27th and 29th, they will play in the Charlotte Area Tournament, of which they are defending
champs. Davidson will open against UNCC at UNCC and then play either Winthrop or Belmont Abbey. There are no gimmes
on the schedule. Despite the difficulties of the schedule, there is no reason to believe this season will be any
less productive than last. At the very least, it should produce more fans, and the fans are gradually proving Davidson
the soccer-lovingest school in Dixie. And that, too, may not be without good reason.

Wildcats Lose In Noble Effort
By BOYD BLACKBURN

The Davidson soccer team lost to Duke 3-0 Wednesday, but things could have been much worse — Duke is the
number one-ranked team in the nation these days.

Sean Austin soon gave Davidson fans something to cheer about with a spectacular run down the right side. His cross
just missed Mike Lufkin’s head for what surely would have equaled the score. Duke responded to the challenge with its
second goal — a strong shot to the far post. Duke carried most of the play in the second half
but failed to score thanks to some fine saves by Woodward. In the end, Duke managed one more goal on
a quick turn inside the box. Mike Mauzé restored some balance to the game with some fancy footwork and a
good shot, but Davidson's best effort was yet to come.

With the end near, Dan Blood received a back heel pass from David Vaughn as he was racing towards the
goal. A Duke defender ran him down from behind in the penalty box but there was no call. Duke used
their fullbacks to stall the ball for the rest of the game. The game evened Davidson’s record at 1-1. The
Cats beat Guilford 2-0 in their opener on goals from Tony Cabrales and Mauzé. The next game is here this
Saturday against Western Carolina University.
