The Spencer Years (Continued from page 11)

For a position in the Political Science department. Assured of his new position, Lindon declined offers from other schools. Lindon,
however, was Jewish. Maintaining he could not fulfill the “Christian commitment” clause in the terms of tenure, Spencer retracted the
job offer. The anger this aroused led to a boycott of convocation, and later to the removal of the “Christian
commitment” clause.

It was in this same year (1977) that Black Achievement Scholarships were initiated with Spencer’s backing. In 1978, there was
some debate over the Faculty Code of Conduct drafted by Spencer and Zimmerman. Among other things, it demanded “support of
established faculty policy.” While some members of the college community took issue with it, there was no great outcry.

A proposed requirement of a non-western course was rejected by the faculty. This proposal of Spencer and the EPC was
considered a “good” idea, but many professors shied away from placing any more requirements on students.

Later on that year, Spencer stated that half of WDAV’s broadcast time should be devoted to “classical” music. The situation
climaxed in the resignation of the entire WDAV staff in October 1978. While Spencer’s stand on the WDAV issue brought
about student disapproval, his stand on self-scheduled exams won their support. Due in part to his backing, self-scheduled exams were
re-approved in 1979. In that same year, plans for Vail Commons were approved.

1980-present

In January 1980, Spencer discussed some of his goals with The Davidsonian. Among his main concerns were fundraising and admission
strategies. He spoke optimistically of the future. The next month, he proposed a 12.5% increase in faculty and staff compensation.
It was approved by the trustees, as was a $575 increase in student fees.

In the Fall Convocation 1980, Spencer reiterated his support for a broader world view. He called for a greater expansion
of the Humanities and Language programs. This was consistent with statements as far back as 1968. One of Spencer’s priorities
has always been international study.

Vail Commons opened in September 1981 at a cost of 3.6 million dollars. The union café was renovated as well.
Slater was replaced by the management of Carlton Pritchard.

1981 was also the year Davidson hired James Williams as assistant director of admissions and assistant dean of students. His
appointment was seen as improving the relationship between the administration and minority students. This, too, had been a major priority
since Spencer took office.

Spencer saw another of his goals fulfilled when the EPC refused to close the center for special studies. Also defeated
that school year was a new grade system. Other issues were Spencer’s proposed cuts in financial aid, the effect of
the Commons on Patterson Court, and self-selection as a bid system.

1981-82 saw the addition of Mary Irwin Belk and Peter Knox Dorms. The final major issue of Spencer’s administration was
the approval of a switch to semesters. This school year is the start of one era and the end of
another.

POC (Continued from page 1)

Amy Crittenberger, plus representatives from several houses, make up a committee which will referee complaints from freshmen concerningself-selection. Freshmen will
make their decision the weekend of February 12. Mason said that they had not had any specific complaints as yet,
only vague claims. He said this is mainly because the students have not selected their houses yet and the people
involved do not want to have their names brought out when there is still a chance that the problem can
be resolved. Another subcommittee of the PCC is looking into alternatives and possible changes for the self-selective system. A similar
committee of the SGA is studying the self-selection system and possible alternatives using questionnaires (see related article).

Terry said that none of the students involved has come directly to him but he said that he would channel
any complaints first to either the PCC or the SGA and then to the Council on Campus and Religious Life
(CCRL). “My philosophy is to let the Court manage their own affairs,” he said. “Then, if that doesn’t work out,
they can come to me.” He added that he had talked to the presidents of two houses and they told
him that they were unaware of any violators on the part of their houses. Terry indicated that the sanctions that
might be levied against a house for violations could be anything from a reprimand, to a fine, to loss of
the house and that the sanctions would probably be carried out by the CCRL. Mason said that his committee could
only recommend actions to be taken.

Mast complained that there were definitely problems with how the system works now. He said that many freshmen were confused
and did not realize that “if they did not get down to the houses early in the year, they were
out.” He added that some people have really been hurt, but he conceded that this was probably true of any
system. “They need to look at the reality of the situation.” he said. “I can see no difference between this
and a straight bid system, except that a straight bid system says what it does.”

As far as what is to be done about the situation, Mast said that he is under the impression that
violations of the system have been getting progressively worse in the last couple of years. He said if anything is
to be done about it, the people involved need to speak out and take action. “I think we need to
look at the self-selection system very seriously.”

Union President Charlie Lovett has released the appointments to the 1983-84 Union Board.

Let someone know you love them on Valentine’s Day. Put a classified ad for that special someone.

Cost:
three lines—$2.00
1/12 page—$4.50
1/8 page—$6.00

Call Union Extension 149 before February 8

King of Pizza
241 S. Broad St.
Mooresville

Special Dinner Buffet
Tuesday and Wednesday 5-9 p.m.
Pizza, Spaghetti, Salad
All you can eat $3.79

Thursday Beverage Special
7 — closing
Large pitcher for ½ price with medium or large pizza
