The Davidsonian / Friday, May 6, 1983

FEATURES

Mahony Looks At Mother God Silent Realm

Laura McDonald Finds Niche In Music

By THURSTON HATCHER

Last summer, Laura McDonald carried home a stack of unfamiliar sheet music to practice during the break. Tomorrow night at 8:15 in Hodson Hall, she will take the works by Beethoven, Chopin, Brahms, and Debussy off the paper and bring them to life. Her recital, a requirement for her music major, is the culmination of a year of practice involving patience, frustration, and self-control.

When McDonald arrived at Davidson as a freshman, she envisioned her future as being primarily medical, with her music merely playing a backup role in her life. But suddenly last winter, she realized what she really thought was right for her—a career in music: “Music was never my major effort until last year,” said McDonald. “I discovered that pre-med was not for me.”

Thanks to some convincing advice from teacher/mentor James Swisher and a subsequent dose of self-discovery, she found her niche; she found her own genuine ability; and she found her goal. At this point, McDonald wants to continue music at Davidson and pursue it in graduate school. She feels strongly about synthesizing the roles of teacher and performer rather than just one or the other. “I wouldn’t want to be straight one or the other because, as the performer, you don’t get to meet people, you just play to a different group every night,” she said. By combining roles, McDonald believes she can establish herself in a close-knit community in which she can come to know people better and know what they like.

The demanding pursuit of the music major often starts to overwhelm McDonald. Like any artist, she must discipline herself and be consistent with the piano, but she does not always find that easy. “Sometimes I get slack,” she said, “and then I usually quit. It’s hard to do something constructive when I’m angry.” At this point, she still feels a need for some outside guidance to keep her going. “I really need someone because I’m not at the point where I feel totally comfortable. I need someone to say, ‘Laura, it happens to everyone.’”

Music professor James Swisher has been just that person. He was the one who got her interested in the first place. “He pushed me to try to develop what potential I had. He was supportive but also very demanding. He’s one of the best performers, teachers, and people that I know.”

Of tomorrow night’s pieces, the “Sarabande” movement of Debussy’s Suite “Pour le Piano” is McDonald’s favorite. “It ranges from contemplative chord progressions to very mysterious stuff,” she said. “It’s a section that feels like pouring your soul out until it hurts so much you can’t play it to the degree that it should be played.”

McDonald has put ten years of her life into the piano, and despite the hard work and frustration of it all, personal rewards and public recognition are never hard to come by. When she plays, McDonald’s eyes stare forward while her small hands relate messages to the keyboard below. Her face is pretty much expressionless, so the only way to tell what she is feeling is through her music. “If I know thereare people that my music can say something to, it forces me to put more into it than just technique. Something about me comes across.”

By ROXANNA GUILFORD

The femininity of God — God as a mother and nurturer — is an issue foreign to many Davidson students. Religion professor William Mahony attempted to educate about 150 students last Monday evening during his lecture, “God with Breasts.” Mahony examined the significance of a feminine God in other cultures. Interestingly, one of the reasons given for the decreased significance of Mother God was its sacred nature. The concept of a feminine God became taboo (sacred, powerful) and was placed upon a pedestal. This objectification rendered the Goddess impotent, leaving only the masculine concept of God.

Using examples more familiar to his audience, Mahony looked at the role of Mother God in the Judaic tradition. Originally, not only was there Yahweh (male, judge), but there was El Shaddai (the God of the Mountains). El Shaddai was the God or Goddess with a womb, a compassionate, fertile deity. Mahony points out that this “God of the Mountains” could be considered the God with breasts (El Shadu), undoubtedly a feminine concept.

Similarly, the Christian tradition embraced at times the concept of Mother God. The 12th century Cistercian order viewed Christ as a mother figure. The abbot was referred to as “mother” and other leaders were also given feminine titles. The cults of the Virgin Mary and of Mary Magdalene are similar examples of the significance of the feminine deity. Mahony points out that in Mexico and other Latin countries, Mary occupies the place of honor in their worship.

In his talk Mahony never advocated the concept of a singularly feminine God, instead calling into question the concept of a singularly masculine God. God is no more male than female, no more masculine than feminine, Mahony emphasized. He referred to the Jungian ideas of the animus and the anima. Although both are aspects of the self, the animus is perceived as masculine and objective while the anima is considered feminine and subjective. According to psychologist Carl Jung, both should be found in every individual; one should not be considered “better” than the other. Similarly, the ideal concept of God would incorporate both aspects.

Mahony also points out the difference between masculine/feminine and male/female. While the latter refers to individuals, the former deals with qualities. The nomenclature can be desexualized and expressed as Classical vs. Romantic. In that light, feminine/romantic aspects (compassion, strength, fertility, subjectivity, etc.) are not merely female traits, just as masculine attributes are not necessarily characteristic of all men. The issue appears not to be whether God is male or female; rather, at stake is the concept of a God that embraces all ends of the spectrum.

In the Women’s Concerns Newsletter, Mahony discusses the implications of this: “We hope to show that feminine aspects in religious experience enable a person to experience herself or himself in a way that more fully expresses her or his true depth and complexity.”

It would then be an injustice to both God and humanity to limit God to current narrow perceptions; in embracing a parent God, Mahony shows that men and women are freed to worship the God in whose image they were created.