The Davidsonian / Friday, April 8, 1983

OPINIONS

Rearrange Sports Center’s Priorities
Jeff Mann

Hurray! At last! Tired old Johnston Gym is finally to be retired — but only a piece at a time. The next item on Davidson’s wish list is a new sports complex. The proposed athletic complex announced last week shows quite clearly the College’s priorities. The sections of the facility most students will use will be built last. The whole building will in fact be built in reverse order of utility. That this order may present a problem stems from the notion that a new sports facility is intended for the entire school, apparently an assumption which the Trustees do not share.

Phase I of the complex will include a “core area” with offices, locker rooms, training facilities, and a 5,000-7,000 seat basketball arena. As it stands, the two varsity basketball teams will use this facility — about forty people, perhaps. Next in line, if the money appears, is a swimming pool hiding as a “natatorium.” Many people like to swim, and Davidson deserves a swim team. Figure 200 people waiting for something like this. Last of all comes the plum which most students will use, the multi-purpose area for racquetball, IMAC, free play, etc. It is obvious that the Trustees put a basketball palace above facilities which more students will use in hopes of regaining the days of old and unseating Dean Smith as the patron saint of North Carolina.

I am as enthusiastic as most concerning Davidson basketball. I thrilled when we beat Notre Dame and cursed when our victory over UT-C was taken away. However, I recognize that the days when Davidson can be a national power are over. The costs of Davidson pursuing a nationally ranked team would be too high, both in dollars and ideals. It is not practical for an academic school of our size to pursue big-time athletics without sacrificing in some other area. We are not, and should not be, a Clemson with all the connotations their recruiting and pursuit of big-time athletics suggest.

Some say that once the varsity basketball teams are out of Johnston Gym then it will be much more open for IMAC and other general student uses. Fair enough, but why shouldn’t the student body get use of the brand new facility? It makes more sense to have the fewest number of people using the lesser facility. We already have a perfectly good arena in Charlotte. Sure, it would be nice to be able to play all home games really and truly at home, but that’s only nice — not a necessity.

This example of mixed-up priorities is nothing new. The aggrandizement of Davidson as an institution often takes precedence over Davidson as a place for students and learning. While the greater glory of Davidson is certainly an admirable goal, that glory should come from Davidson’s students and academic reputation. A new athletic complex is necessary, but we should build it for students, not some quixotic delusion of grandeur.

Mann is a junior center/journalism major from Atlanta, Georgia and associate editor of the Davidsonian.

Amnesty International: Moral Imperialism?
Keith Revell

I would like to raise a conscientious objection to the philosophy, or what I perceive as the philosophy, behind Amnesty International (AI). It is my understanding that AI is an apolitical organization whose purpose is to protest on behalf of prisoners of conscience and to advance the cause of human rights. I am assuming that what they mean by human rights is the natural, minimal entitlements of any human by virtue of his being.human. For example, AI claims that regardless of circumstances, everyone has the right to humane treatment, which includes, among other things, not being tortured. Intuitively, I feel that the members of AI are supporting a truly just cause, worthy of international attention. However, I am not sure that humans do have rights merely by virtue of their being human; nor am I convinced that AI members can justify their letter campaigns on an international scale. It is not my intention to antagonize or to arouse the enmity of anyone. I write this article only because I am concerned with the intellectual integrity of fellow students who have taken up the cause of Amnesty International. My uneasiness with AI stems from my skepticism concerning human rights. Unfortunately, one cannot prove that these rights exist, particularly in the very broad, universal sense of the term human rights. You simply have to posit their existence and their extent. Supposedly, human rights are not circumstantially dependent; you don’t have these rights at some times but not others. The problem is that only under a certain set of circumstances — historical, sociological, environmental — have humans come up with the concepts of human rights. I question human rights on two primary grounds. 

First, they are creations of a particular group of people existing under certain circumstances during a specific historical period. As citizens of a relatively stable western nation, we have the time, inclination, and opportunity to think about rights. Our sociocultural context and our heritage profoundly affect how we act and what we think. Our situation is different from that of others. Our perception of beauty is different from that in other countries. So too is our taste in food different. Ideas and ideals are indigenous to particular cultures in a similar manner. Human rights are primarily the product of modern, western thought. Parading them around the globe is ideological imperialism. Consider the possibility that even though we might hold human rights to be universal, they may only work in a culture designed in the western style. We might have to import the United States — technology, social structure, political system — to Cambodia in order for human rights to work there. 

Second, because human rights are postulated, rather than proved, they can be easily challenged by postulating something else. For instance, because of circumstances, a certain society posits maximizing social utility as its highest concern. Then, if a situation arises in which rights conflict with utility, utility takes precedence, even in violation of rights. I offer the following examples for consideration. During World War II, the U.S. government decided to incarcerate a large portion of the American Japanese population. This, I claim, was a violation of their rights. However, the action was supposedly justified. Yes, their rights were violated, but national security was more important. Similarly, one could claim that torture and imprisonment are justified because they help to maintain social stability. Eventually, an oppressive government, after years of forced stability, could begin to consider rights. The situation would then allow for them where they were not possible before. If my objections are plausible, there is sufficient cause for AI members to reconsider their position. What conceptions of justice might arise from acting on circumstantially dependent values outside of those circumstances? It is important, I think, that before we march (or mail) our views around the globe under the banner of justice, we make perfectly clear to ourselves exactly how just we really are. 

Revell is a sophomore economics major from Miami Lakes, FL.