The Davidsonian/Friday, September 23, 1983

Casey Heads Computers
By DAN VOORHIS

New Computer Director John Casey sees computers as playing a larger role in the liberal arts curriculum in the future. Since arriving at Davidson as former Director Bob DeSieno’s replacement, Casey has been impressed by Davidson’s commitment to a computer network and educating people to use it. The College’s efforts show its desire “to maintain its place among the best of the liberal arts colleges,” Casey said. The system “is integral with the College” and will come to play an increasing role in the everyday life of the students, faculty, and administration.

To make computers more responsive to the needs of the users, Casey plans to change the structure of the system. The College currently uses a large mainframe computer connected to about 25 terminals scattered around the campus. These large central computers must handle each command one at a time, causing slight delays. Also, a main computer must remain general and cannot perform many functions as easily as a computer designed specifically for them. For instance, word processing on the College’s computer is unwieldy and not “user friendly.” Casey proposes to mix the wide use of private and College-owned personal computers for smaller individualized tasks and the traditional central computer for complex programs. This is not a unique approach, explains Casey. “Nationwide, there is a trend away from just a single central computer toward a more integrated system.”

Casey took over during the summer amid stories that PRIME, the maker of the College’s computer, was going bankrupt. He denies the rumors, saying he is “not concerned” that the company will go under. He blamed the reports on overly optimistic growth predictions and management shuffles. However, AXXESS, the corporation that produced the College’s administrative software, did “go belly-up,” according to Casey. He explained that enough software had been put in place that Davidson could continue to program on its own. “We’ve become more self-reliant because we’re flying on our own. I'd say we’re at least as well off,” he said.

Completing the programming of the PRIME computer and the phasing out of the NCR unit in Chambers are Casey’s two priorities this fall. Long-range plans include setting up programs to train all users for personal computers, supporting their use, and conducting research and development in that area.

The College and its people impress Casey. “It attracted me as a place I would like to be. Everyone has been extremely warm and friendly.” He came with “rather high expectations. And nothing since has disappointed me.” Casey came to Davidson from Carthage College in Kenosha, Wisconsin where he taught for five years and held administrative posts as registrar, Associate Dean, and Director of Data Processing. He saw Davidson’s job advertisement in Computer World magazine. Casey received a Bachelor of Science from Loyola College in Baltimore and an M.S. and PhD, all in solid-state physics, from Michigan State University. He is married and has three children.

Inter-campus Mail Revised
By JULIE STERNAL

College Union work-study students are now overseeing the inter-campus mail system which SGA volunteers operated last year. David Hutchenson delivered the letters last year on a volunteer basis. According to SGA President Hunter Monroe, the system worked very well, but the SGA foresaw problems in keeping on enough people to run the system. Hutchenson suggested that the Financial Aid office have a work-study student operate the service. Hutchenson said that it was difficult to deliver the mail regularly. He felt that a work-study student would have more incentive than a volunteer might to spend the seven-to-eight hours necessary to deliver the mail.

One work-study student currently delivers the mail, but a second student will be added if needed. Anyone on campus may use the service. Off-campus houses and offices will not be included in the service. If you have any letters to mail on campus, bring them to the Union desk and give them to either Todd Cowdery or Jim Perry. Mail will be delivered within two days.

Eighteen Professors Join Davidson Faculty
Editor’s note: This is the first of two articles on Davidson’s new professors for the 1983-84 school year.
By JOHN GATHINGS

Eighteen professors from across the country have arrived at Davidson College this fall to join the faculty as either visiting or continuing professors. Most of the new faculty are here for a limited time, or visiting lecturers or temporary substitutes for faculty members on leave. Regardless of their varied fields, they seem to be unified in their opinions of Davidson. “It’s overwhelmingly friendly,” said new philosophy professor Irwin Goldstein. Visiting anthropology professor Rosemary Zumalt recalls that “people really wanted me to feel comfortable.” The newProfessors also seem pleased with the quality of students here. Linda Pellechia, a new professor in the art department, was “really surprised with the students’ willingness to say things in class. They ask intelligent questions and come back with good answers.” She was also “impressed with their enthusiasm and willingness to learn.” New psychology professor Cole Barton found the “students impressive” and “seriously hard working.”

Linda Pellechia

Linda Pellechia has come to Davidson as a Mellon Assistant Professor in the Art Department. The Mellon Foundation supplies funding for especially promising young professors to encourage contributions in their fields and to the humanities. Pellechia did her undergraduate work at Smith College and received her master’s and doctoral degrees from Harvard University. She has taught at Cornell and worked as the head teaching fellow in the fine arts department at Harvard.

In addition to her academic achievements, Pellechia also has spent a total of seven years in Florence, Italy. While in Italy she did various odd jobs, working as an interpreter, as an English teacher, and as a cattle shipper. While in Italy she cultivated an interest in Renaissance art and returned to the U.S. to attend graduate school. Her studies centered on art history, because she feels it involves “the understanding of a culture that is different from our own.”

Pellechia is on a tenure track here at Davidson and is teaching art history. She is considering long-range plans of publishing a monograph on Giuliano da Sangallo. She also hopes to return to Europe to pursue research in the future.

New Philosophy Professors

Assistant professor Michael P. Smith and two-year visiting assistant professor Irwin Goldstein have both joined the Philosophy Department. Smith graduated from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and got his master’s and doctoral degrees from UNC-Chapel Hill. He has taught at Rice University, Texas A & M University, and at Occidental College. Besides his job teaching at Davidson, he is interested in translating works of philosophy. He feels that “everybody has something unique to add to the total picture.” He is especially interested in trying to find the original meaning of these works and is presently engaged in a project of this type.

Goldstein is an honor graduate of Carleton University in Ottawa, Canada, received his master’s degree from the University of Bristol in England, and his Ph.D. at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland. He has taught at Southern Methodist University, the University of Texas at Dallas, Loyola University in Chicago, and Southwest Missouri State University. When questioned about the diversity of the places where he worked and studied, he said that it is “fascinating to live at other places. I find that quite exciting.” His curiosity for new things spills into his professional life as well, as he is finishing a book which explores the experiences of pleasure and pain. Goldstein has put considerable work into the text. “I think every page has been rewritten shortly after some sort of new insight. It’s a continual process of clarification,” he said. He hopes to continue this kind of work even after he finishes this first book because he feels that “trying to reach others is a very important part of philosophy.”

Rosemary Zumalt

Rosemary Zumalt joins the faculty as a visiting assistant professor in the Sociology and Anthropology Department. A graduate from the University of California at Santa Cruz, she received an M.A. in folklore and a Ph.D. in anthropology from the University of California at Berkeley. Her previous work includes teaching at the University of South Carolina in Columbia, at Mills College in Oakland, California, and at the University of California at Santa Cruz.

Zumalt did not at first intend to pursue a career in this field but instead dropped out of college as a sophomore to get married. Her husband worked as a lawyer for a Navajo reservation. They lived on the reservation and it was there that she became interested in anthropology. Zumalt later spent some time living in Point Hope, Alaska, where she researched the tradition and cultures of the Eskimos. She will be teaching at Davidson for one year and then hopes to spend the summer in Paris, France where she wants to do research on the unpublished works of a French folklorist.

Cole Barton

Cole Barton is the new Assistant Professor of Psychology. He received his Ph.D. from the University of Utah, where he also taught for one year. He has also worked with clinical psychology at the Primary Children’s Hospital in Salt Lake City. He hopes to “establish an ongoing research program to study interpersonal relationships” and to provide training experiences for Davidson students interested in becoming psychologists. He also anticipates doing related work in the Davidson community.