6 Friday, September 23, 1983 / The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Truck, 1979. Color lithograph

Red Grooms And The Diversity Of Artistic Exploration

By MIGUEL ABREU

The Davidson College Art Gallery is currently hosting a sample of the oeuvre of Red Grooms, one of America’s most
original artists. The touring exhibition, “Red Grooms: Prints of the Seventies,” organized by the Fine Arts Center of Nashville, will
be in the Gallery until mid-October.

This print exhibition offers the opportunity to discover one of the facets of Grooms’s highly diversified artistic expression. His thirst
for adventure and exploration makes it impossible to place him in any category. Grooms is a painter, a sculptor, a
printmaker, a carpenter, a puppeteer, and a showman. Just as he is a dancer, an actor, a satirist, a portraitist,
or a filmmaker. Additionally, Grooms uses his rich and powerful imagination to fabricate striking environmental pieces (which he calls “sculpto-picto-ramas”)
such as the world-famous “Ruckus Manhattan” (1976) or its ancestor “The City of Chicago” (1967).

As an artist plunged into the wide and often extravagant world of contemporary American art, Grooms stands out like one
of his own stick-out constructions. His fertile and sparkling inspiration has brought him to the front line of the American
art scene, where if not always acclaimed, he is at least noticed and generally recognized as an innovator.

Even if Grooms lends his creative talents to many different art forms, he repeatedly depicts simple, everyday-life themes. Subways, trucks,
street life, sex, and football are typical Red Grooms subjects. His handling of this “common” thematic material is both humorous
and serious. His sense of fun — an unusual feeling in the art world — results from his colorful and
insightful dimension. Grooms says, “Humor is like boxing. You set ’em up. Then, whammo!”

However, the punishment is never expressed as a severe condemnation of American culture; rather, the ironic element reminds us of
our weaknesses yet encourages us to laugh about them. Grooms manages to confront the viewer with the pathetic aspect of
his daily life without provoking a feeling of genuine guilt or shame.

And In The End: The Love You Make

By STEPHEN MANK

Never before have Paul, Ringo, George, and John received more yellow press than in the past year. With the release
of Loving John by Lennon’s former lover, Dakota Years by an expatriate Lennon butler, and A Twist of Lennon by
Lennon’s first wife, the Beatle-made-myth has been exploited and milked for every penny the gossip-mongering public is willing to shell
out.

But The Love You Make by Peter Brown is different. Brown, a friend and employee of the Beatles from their
Liverpool years, is the first member of the Beatles’ inner circle to break the code of silence. His book is
not a tasteless exposé but rather someone trying to set the story straight.

Brown had worked with Brian Epstein, the Beatles’ manager, even before the Beatles had formed. He describes how Epstein became
enamored with the four leather-clad purveyors of raunch-rock in a gin-soaked bar in 1962 and began to dedicate all his
time to making them big. Epstein made an all-out effort to get the Beatles heard but only managed to get
a contract with the failing Parlophone Records. Much to everyone’s surprise, the Beatles’ first single, “Please, Please Me,” was a
top-10 hit. After that, the Beatles would have to conquer America and the world. In doing so, they had to
overcome many obstacles including drugs, social disease, false prophets, cons, unhappy marriages, and millions of...wailing pre-adolescent girls. "The Love You
Make" is the story of “The next big thing,” exorcised demons, and four disparate, artistic personalities. Brown shows the four
with their guard down, exposed to the world. In many cases, he explodes myths and what we’d like to believe,
but at the same time, he shows some very human individuals who had too much time, too much money, and
too little privacy to enjoy it. By showing the bad as well as the good, Brown forces us not to
hate the Beatles, but, for the first time, to empathize with them. His anecdotes are the most engaging aspect of
the book. Just reading about what really happened when the Beatles met Elvis would make the book worthwhile.

Brown’s book is not the average book by a non-writer who decides to write about times spent with the Beatles
because he needs money. Instead, it is a proper shedding of light on the four. And in the end, the
feeling is not one of disillusionment but of relief as four obsessions with sex, drugs, and rock and roll finally
reach equilibrium.

Quite the contrary; he invites the viewer to spend time with the picture and eventually to smile about the whole
situation. The “No Gas” series of six lithographs illustrates appropriately this interpretation of Grooms’s art. On the strictly compositional level,
the great diversity, profusion, and general busyness of his pictures reveal a highly active consciousness. Crude and sharply contrasted colors,
along with supernatural shapes, create a chaotic atmosphere, particularly evident in the city scenes. Art critic Paul Richard says that
Grooms “mixes in his work the tiny and the vast, the real and the fabulous, the sweet and the horrific.
He ranges past and present. Sometimes his work seethes. There are prints in the exhibit — “Fall of Jericho” (1971),
“Picasso Goes to Heaven” (1976) — that attack from many quarters and allow the eye no rest. Other pictures here
shed a balm of reverence, like his lithograph “Matisse” (1976), based on a Brassai photograph.

The intriguing portfolio of ten etchings and aquatints, “Nineteenth Century Artists” (1976), is a testimony of Grooms’s unbounded imagination and
passion for other artists whom he calls his “friends.” This series provides a change of pace in the exhibition, which
culminates in the masterpiece, “Truck” (1979). As a constantly experimenting artist involved in different art forms with different media, Red
Grooms has exhibited his works in places such as the Delaney Street Museum, the Cooper Union for Arts and Sciences,
the experimental Living Theatre on Fourteenth Street, and the Judson Memorial Church Gallery on Washington Square in New York City.
The Reuben Gallery, jointly operated by Grooms and several other artists, among them Edward Higgins, Allan Kaprow, Jim Dine, Claes
Oldenburg, and George Segal, was used as a theatre for their so-called “happenings.” Grooms’s events, involving impromptu play-acting in constructed
environments, have been compared to works by John Cage and choreographer Merce Cunningham. His best-known happening, “The Burning Building” (1958),
featured Grooms as a harried fire chief clad in long red underwear hysterically waving lighted candles while painted flames devoured
a cardboard tenement building.

This is to say that Grooms is certainly not limited to print-making. One might even suggest that his prints represent
Grooms’s least significant contribution to art. However, through his prints as much as through any other art form, Grooms contributes
significantly to “crack the sour humor that rules the realm of art,” as Paul Richard puts it. And that’s no
minor contribution.
