n’s Week—have any power. In order to get anywhere, you have to play everyone else’s game. Now, once they finally
reach a certain “critical mass,” the minorities begin to wield power. They don’t have to play the others’ game. They
can start their own. Sonia Johnson will be at Davidson through the efforts primarily of the Women’s Concerns Committee, but
through the support of Rusk House, Warner Hall, and the Speaker’s Committee. She will be speaking on Tuesday, January 18,
12:30 at the BSC House, and at 8:00 in Love Auditorium. Limited seating is available for both. Don’t miss an
invaluable opportunity to see a strong vision of our society in the ’80s.

Vitality and hardship now a full-time commitment. “If you're going to write,” says Moose, “you have to love to do
it. It’s a wonderful way to live and a hard way to make a living.” To supplement her writing and
as an extension of her writing, she works with the public schools in their visiting artists programs, and she also
travels to conduct writing workshops. Her advice for those wishing to pursue a career in writing: “The best training for
writing is reading. It keeps your mind constantly stimulated.” An artist needs to have a source of inspiration—something to help
them continue creating. “For me,” says Moose, “I write because there’s something I want down on paper. And when I
have an idea, I want to know what’s going to happen. I want to follow each character and find out
what happens to him as much as the reader does.” Moose will be visiting Davidson next Thursday, January 20th as
part of “Celebrate Women” week. After conducting a workshop with Dr. Abbott’s creative writing class, she will read and discuss
some of her works at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. A reception will follow the reading.

Jennet Robinson
She puts her risks in perspective
By ELIZABETH KISS

Jennet Robinson is well qualified to talk about “Risktaking,” the topic of her speech Monday night at 6:45 in the
900 Room. It’s risky to be one of eleven women among 1,000 college students. It’s risky to leave a job
as a television news anchorperson and move to California because male colleagues doing the same work are getting paid twice
as much as you are. It’s risky for a young South Carolina woman to spend two years at the Ministries
of Public Health and Education in Kabul, Afghanistan, especially during a Soviet-backed coup. Jennet Robinson has done all of these
things, and more.

Robinson’s speech will kick off the week-long focus on women’s issues sponsored by the Union Committee on Women’s Concerns, Celebrate
Women: Ten Years at Davidson College. Her visit is appropriate to the week’s theme. Robinson, who since last June has
been Deputy Lieutenant Governor of South Carolina, spent a year at Davidson in '71-72 as one of a group of
eleven women exchange students. “She took the place by storm,” according to Associate Dean of Admissions Gardner Roller, who was
also a member of the exchange group. “The two of them—Jennet and Gardner—did more to pave the way for coeducation
at Davidson than anyone else,” English Professor Anthony Abbott said. The Board of Trustees approved coeducation in May 1972.

Abbott recalled that Robinson played an active role in campus life during her year here. She was manager of the
soccer team and starred in the drama production The Taming of the Shrew. Being in such a minority was not
easy. “The pressure was on,” Robinson said. Roller recalled releasing steam by riding bikes at night down the halls of
Chambers with Robinson, shouting epithets at the office doors of particularly chauvinistic faculty members. Robinson received a B.A. degree in
drama and history from Mary Baldwin College.In 1973, she went on to be a television news reporter and anchorperson in
Columbia, South Carolina for three years. Despite her childhood in a “male-dominated Southern society” in Charleston, Robinson said she left
college confident and strongly oriented toward achievement. “It wasn’t until I started working that I realized how hard it was
for women in the workplace.” In spite of her seemingly glamorous, high-profile television job, Robinson was “making peanuts.” Then she
discovered her male colleagues earned twice as much for the same work. Finding there were no laws protecting her from
such discrimination in a private firm, Robinson left the station and moved to California, where she worked with radio and
taught in a broadcast school.

Then, in January 1977, Robinson took what she calls, “the biggest risk of my life.” She joined the Peace Corps
as a communications consultant for the Ministry of Public Health in Kabul, Afghanistan. “I prepared health education materials for patients,
midwives, and village health workers in an effort to extend basic health care to more people in a country with
a critical health manpower shortage.” Robinson also worked with Afghanistan’s sole television station, under the Ministry of Education. Living in
a traditional Muslim society was “very tough,” Robinson said. Outside the cities, few women walked unveiled. Polygamy was common practice,
and husbands tried to have as many children as possible, which frequently caused health problems among mothers and infants. “I
earned peoples’ respect because I learned the language and because I was considered to be a teacher, and I did
meet wonderfully kind people,” Robinson explained, “but I found many aspects of the society difficult to understand.”

With the Soviet-backed coup in 1978 and the outbreak of civil war, Robinson's position with the country’s only television station
became a politically sensitive one and her contract was terminated. Robinson returned to her native South Carolina and directed a
medical education television network for the state’s Medical University. When Lieutenant Governor Nancy Stevenson offered her the position of press
secretary, she accepted. “For the first time in my life I was working for a woman with lots of power,
lots of energy and ambition — and with a staff that’s half women and has considerable minority representation.” Robinson became
Deputy Lieutenant Governor in June 1982, a position she held until the inauguration of the new lieutenant governor last week.

Her plans for the future? “I want to continue to work in state government. I feel very strongly about the
need for women to make an impact in state government. After all, when most American people favor equal rights for
women, it was a few state legislatures that stopped the ERA.” “I also saw Lieutenant Governor Stevenson do several things
that have never been done before — and do them on very little money. I think it’s possible to improve
the system by working within it.”

Women cannot assume the struggle for equal rights is over. “With every step forward, there’s been a corresponding step back.”
Robinson believes women need to risk more. “Women have a tendency not to take risks in the workplace. Elsewhere, yes
— what’s a bigger risk than bringing another life into the world? But, while boys learn early through teamwork to
cope with both victory and defeat, girls don’t, and continue to consider security their top priority on the job.”

Robinson looks forward to seeing Davidson for the first time since 1973. She feels her message is timely for today’s
university women, who are often unaware of the discrimination still experienced by women today. “I used to say I’m not
a women’s libber, I’m a Jennet libber. But it’s not that simple.” Women must still take risks on behalf of
themselves and of other women. Jennet Robinson can speak to that.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 January 1983 13
