Wednesday, December 14, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Court Closings Diminish Diversity
Barnett Gauges Interest In New Eating House

By RAND HARTSELL

A new eating house may open as early as next spring, if sophomore Bill Barnett has his way. Barnett is currently attempting to determine the number of people interested in such an endeavor. Barnett, a former ATO member now eating at the Commons, is displeased with the present social atmosphere around the Court. He believes the Court lost a great deal of its diversity when his former eating establishment folded.

“The Commons is not a suitable social environment for most upperclassmen,” Barnett explained. “It’s a great place for freshmen; I believe it provides an excellent means for them to get to know each other. But it offers nothing for them socially. Common interests develop to a great extent toward the end of the freshman year.” For this reason, Barnett believes the Court needs diversity, something he sees diminishing now that ATO has closed.

Barnett does not, however, intend to “reopen” ATO. “That would be pointless. ATO suffered from a poor identity,” one that was not at all inaccurate, he said. That identity led to a very low self-selection result last year, he said. Barnett pointed out that at the start of the 1984-85 academic year, only 10 ATO members will still be on campus. The other 29 members affiliated with the house when it closed will have graduated. Interest in a new house has been eve-

Athletic Survey
(Continued from page 1)

general athletic policy. They want a nationally competitive basketball team, a football team in the Southern Conference, and broad participation in all sports. At the beginning of the meeting, according to Mele, the Trustees said the faculty might be nonsupportive of major sports (football in particular), but the faculty members attending suggested that the faculty was supportive.

Self-Selection
(Continued from page 21)

balance between fraternities. “A lot of things shift the balance besides oral encouragements,” he said. Nevertheless, Kurtts said, “as a frat, we voted not to do anything to try to get around the laws.” He believes the Self-Selection Committee could be a valuable “liaison” between freshmen and Patterson Court. “It’s a step forward,” he said, “but a lot of other things need to be done.”

Kappa Alpha President Sam Hay said, “I haven’t agreed with each decision the Committee has made, but I feel that by and large, we are better off that the committee exists and functions as a link between freshmen and eating houses.” The Committee consists of two members from fraternities, two from eating houses, and two hall counselors.

D.G. Martin
(Continued from page 9)

campaign. He was introduced by Interim College President Frontis Johnston, and referred to Johnston and economics professor C. Louise Nelson during the speech. Other candidates have already been Ben Tison and Susan Green in the Democratic primary. The Republican candidate is Alex McMillan.

PERMANENT WAVE HAIR DESIGNERS
1/2 OFF STUDIO. 237 Catawba Ave.
HAIR CUT & STYLE Cornelius $5.00 off
(in rear of the Southern (Male & Female, Energy Building)
MON-SAT 10 AMUntil CHILDREN’S HAIRCUT & STYLE No Appointment Necessary - $5.00. Call 883-3129 or Gon-4 | Kevin Horan for the race. Martin will face. Only divided between upperclassmen and freshmen, indicated Barnett in support of his claim that the Court needs more diversity. The house will need the freshman interest it has received. According to Dean of Students Will Terry and College Business Manager Bob Currie, that interest would need to be translated into something more concrete. Both explained that a long-term, contractual obligation would be in order. “Ideally, we would want a two-year commitment from each person,” Terry said. Terry also said that those in charge of organizing the house would have to be “very convincing of the need for a new house. They would also have to demonstrate that the new house will not harm the stability of the other eating houses,” he said. “We want to avoid a trial run,” Currie said. “The expense incurred (especially when a house is forced to close) must be borne by the house.” Warner Hall is the most recently opened eating house on the Court. In the fall of 1981 then-sophomores Kathy Kooken, Jane Alexanian, and Anne Rollins felt the need was apparent for an alternative to Rusk House. As the only all-women’s house to date, Rusk had a long waiting list. “After going door to door,” Kooken said, “we had to present a petition to the Council on Campus and Religious Life. They made a proposal to the President [Samuel Spencer] stating the need for a new house existed and that the support (75 members) existed.” Warner Hall hopes to minimize difficulty in replacing the 55 sophomores who joined the house in 1982. Rollins said the house membership could stay at 75 if after the class of 1985 graduates, 25 freshmen self-select this year as well as next year. She expects this to happen, even in the event of another co-ed eating house opening. In light of two houses closing within the last year, Terry commented that starting a new house seems risky. “The [Patterson Court] system has traditionally been important to college life. There must be a concrete commitment from house members for the system to continue,” Terry said.

Hardee's Food Systems, Inc. BEST EATIN' ALL AROUND! The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’ bring in this money-saving coupon.

STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND ORANGE JUICE $1.29
Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours only at participating Hardee's Restaurants through May 31, 1984.

Hardee's Food Systems, Inc. REGULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79
Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants through May 31, 1984.