THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXII, Number 16

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, April 1, 1983

Architect's model of the new sports complex

Plans For Athletic Complex Near Completion

By DAVID RESNIK

All segments of the College — Trustees, administrators, faculty, and students — are discussing plans for a new athletic complex.

Athletic Director and Head Football Coach Ed Farrell presented a report on the Athletic Department’s needs and suggestions for the
new sports center at a meeting with the Trustee Building and Grounds and Athletic Committees on March 24.

Farrell said that “nothing official came out at the meeting,” but the plans are “close to official.”

The two Trustee committees will evaluate Farrell’s report and present their recommendations at the Trustee’s next meeting in May. According
to Farrell, “The Trustees have accepted the need for a new facility”; they have not approved the final plans. They
have also decided that the sports center should be built on the football practice fields.

Athletic Department’s Requirements

The Athletic Department’s requirements for a new sport center include an arena for intercollegiate basketball; a core area for locker
facilities, office space, and training rooms; a natatorium; new handball and racquetball courts; and a multipurpose area.

The department has recommended that the College build the complex in phases in case it cannot immediately obtain funds. The
basketball court and core area would be built first, the natatorium second; and the multipurpose area would be built last.

The Sports Center would cover 120,000 square feet, according to the Athletic Department’s recommendations. Davidson’s largest building is the E.H.
Little Library, which covers 100,000 square feet.

The basketball arena would seat 5000-7000, with many moveable seats, according to the requirements. The natatorium would contain intercollegiate swimming
and diving facilities as well as spectator seating. The multipurpose room could be used for intramurals, P.E. courses, or possibly
varsity tennis.

The lower level of Johnston Gym would be converted into art classrooms and studios. The upper level would remain open
for intramurals, physical education courses, and free play. If the College raises enough money to build a new multipurpose center,
then the Johnston Gym would be converted into a theater.

The old football practice fields would be relocated near the jogging trails and a parking lot would be constructed in
back of the sports complex, according to Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze.

Meetze said that naming the construction cost of the new complex would be only a guess. Three years ago the
College predicted a new sports center would cost $5-6 million, according to Meetze.

(continued on page 6)

Faculty Salary Adjustments Begin

By BOB LOPER

Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann has been cloistered in his office for
the last two weeks determining faculty salaries for the 1983-84 school year.

Of the money that Davidson will pay to its faculty in the coming year, eight percent will be available for
salary increases. Zimmermann and College President Samuel Spencer work together to decide how much each faculty member deserves, although Spencer
has final approval.

Zimmermann hopes to present the salary proposals to Spencer within the next week. He intends to notify faculty members of
their new salaries “by the second week in April.”

Determining faculty salaries is a long and grueling process since merit alone determines the criterion for salary increases. In accordance
with the decision of the Trustees, there are no “cost-of-living” salary adjustments. To clarify this subjective concept of merit, however,
Zimmermann uses the Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures, a document approved by the faculty and the administration in 1979.

According to the Code, Zimmermann must consider how near the profes-
(continued on page 4)

Anderson Scott

Search For New President Continues

By ERIC LONG

The Faculty, Student, and Trustee Presidential Search Committees held their first joint meeting to review and discuss presidential candidates March
28. Chairman of the Trustee Committee Ben T. Craig hopes to “reduce the group to a core of solid candidates”
by April 18.

The committees reviewed 200 candidates Monday. The three committees exchanged questions and recommendations then narrowed the number of candidates. All
committee members questioned declined to release information concerning the candidates. The committees agreed to conduct the search in confidentiality, with
only Craig answering questions.

Craig described the search process. “We have set up an office to receive nominations (mail to 1200 Commerce Center, Charlotte,
N.C. 28202), which we distill into one-page forms and distribute to each committee member, who grades the applications. The members
have several weeks to look them over, and to ask for more info. On Monday, we reviewed the candidates in
the order that their nominations had been received. Everyone has an opportunity to speak, to ask questions. The next step
in the search is to reduce the number of candidates further and to develop additional information about them. Often, nominations
don’t include a comprehensive biography, and the committees need to round out the resumes.”
(continued on page 4)

Inside This Week

Wade Barber: Davidson grad runs for N.C. Attorney General. See p. 3

Chaucer! Donaldson visits and lectures. Read about it on p. 7

BB goes dry—travel with a dry group on p. 10

Ruggers romp: see the p. 11 story

Self-Selection, a better definition on p. 15
