10 Friday, December 7, 1983/The Davidsonian

Southern Conference Survey

UT - Chattanooga Dominates

By STEVE SOUD
Choosing the top team in the Southern Conference hasn't been a problem of late. Murray Arnold’s Moccasins of UT-Chattanooga have
gone 53-8 over the last two seasons and won the SC three consecutive years. But picking the rest of the
standings has always proved a bit more perilous.

Tennessee-Chattanooga

Last year the Mocs finished 15th in the final AP basketball poll. They were 15-1 in the SC. They return
their top five scorers. That includes 6-3 bomber Willie White (18.4 ppg), two-time Southern Conference Player of the Year. That
includes 6-6 Gerald Wilkins (12.6 ppg), “little” brother of Dominique. It also includes Stan Strickland (12 ppg, 5.5 rpg) and
Lamar Oden. At center, 6-9 Clifford Morgan, a junior college transfer, is ready.

Anybody willing to bet against them?

Western Carolina

The Catamounts return plenty of able players as well. Point guard Quenton Lytle (8.6 ppg, 105 assists), and shooting guard
Quinton Moore (12.5 ppg) bolster a fine backcourt. Up front, Coach Steve Cottrell can start junior Adrin Cokely (9.9 ppg),
and 6-8 senior center Pat Sharp (10.6 ppg, 5.3 rpg). Cottrell’s teams have been laden with talent recently, but he’s
never won the big games. The Cats are always unpredictable.

Marshall

It seems third place is a toss-up between Marshall and Furman. I give Marshall the edge on a hunch that
some junior college transfers are better than the opposition’s bargaining on.

Rick Huckabay, a former LSU assistant, will take over the reins of the Thundering Herd. He will have sometime-superstar LaVerne
Evans (13.8 ppg) to work with, and point guard Sam Henry (7.7 ppg) has proven a steady hand in the
past. Henry led the league last year with 157 assists. Forward David Wade (6-6, 210, 11.2 ppg, 7 rpg) will
play a key role in the mechanics of the front line. Then there are the three transfers from Walker JC
in Jasper, AL.

Furman

Former Bobby Knight assistant Jene Davis proved he could coach last year. His 8-20 record belied his team’s heads-up, aggressive
stance. He will again work around 6-9 senior George Singleton (16.1 ppg, 8.2 rpg), another strong Player of the Year
candidate. Noel Gilliard (9.9 ppg, 5.1 rpg) will support him in the frontcourt. The backcourt will pair senior Floyd “Apollo”
Creed (8.9 ppg) with sharpshooting sophomore Dave Conrady. Davis follows in the mold of his Indiana mentor — his teams
are well prepared and always hustle. They also peak at tournament time.

East Tennessee State

These guys are as unpredictable as anyone in the country. Barry Dowd is a fine coach, and rumor has it
he’s been stockpiling redshirts like Pershing IIs. But how is he to replace Troy Lee Mikell, the nation’s leader in
field goal percentage last year? And 6-11 behemoth Winfred King? The Bucs return only one starter, but he’s a good
one — shooting guard Marcus Reese (9.9 ppg, 4.3 rpg). Dowd brought in two JC transfers: 6-9 James Hildebrand and
6-8 Mark Watkins. The Buc front line may need the help.

Davidson

I’m afraid Davidson will have to battle a vastly improved Appalachian team for sixth. But Wildcat hopes pivot on the
crucial five-game home stand that closes the regular season. A sweep could possibly ensure an upper-division finish and build important
momentum for the SC tournament.

Appalachian State

Shooting guard David Lawrence (15.3 ppg, 4.9 rpg) and 6-9 center Dale Roberts (10.5 ppg, 8.3 rpg) will anchor Kevin
Cantwell’s young squad. If Wade Capehart remains healthy he could be a force to be reckoned with. Also watch out
for Bill Nealy. Cantwell also acquired UNC transfer Linwood Robinson, but Robinson will have to sit this year out because
of NCAA transfer rules.

The Citadel

Les Robinson is a fine coach, but he lost too much to graduation for a great finish. He keeps 6-4
swingman Regan Truesdale (13.1 ppg, 6.1 rpg) and 6-7 leaper Shawn Brown, but that’s about all. Robinson will miss Felipe
de las Pozas.

Virginia Military

The Keydets have remained firmly entrenched among the dregs of college basketball. Marty Fletcher — certainly one of basketball’s most
entertaining sideline coaches — doesn’t have a lot to look forward to. And that’s said of a man who went
2-25 last year. He does have 6-4 forward Darren Sawyer (15.2 ppg, 5 rpg) and 6-3 guard Cedric Wins (15.2
ppg), but beyond those two is a bench of Rodney Dangerfields — no respect. Sorry VMI.

Looking for a part-time job?
Openings for hard workers at

UNITED PARCEL SERVICE

Pay: $8.00 per hour
15 to 25 hours per week
Monday through Friday

Excellent benefits

Applications are to be accepted at
United Parcel Service - (Corner of I-85 and North Graham)

Additional inquiries or information available through Careers Office

Equal Opportunity M/F
