Friday, November 4, 1983 / The Davidsonian 15

The Boomerang Effect
Dr. Leon Bendesky

The ongoing situation in Central America and the United States’ military intervention in Grenada are clear signs of the choices
that the Reagan Administration has taken in the region. The central concern is represented by the overall perception of West-East
confrontation in which Central America is taken as the ground for testing the American policy of global containment. These events
show how American foreign policy has been driven to a more direct involvement in the region. These policies also reflect
a misunderstanding of some of the most pressing problems of Latin America and the Caribbean and are bound to have
a “boomerang” effect in the medium run.

The government first attempted its containment policy based on El Salvador’s situation, trying to aid forces closer to U.S. interests.
As this approach failed to control political deterioration and as the situation became more complex with developments in Nicaragua, the
effort was placed in the regionalization of the conflicts. This has meant, among other things, increasing pressure on a country
like Costa Rica that could cost it its traditional stability. The invasion of Grenada is part of the third trend
in American involvement, the use of rapid deployment forces in the area. This reflects the extreme of the polarized view
of the socio-political problems in Central America and the Caribbean, that is, one in terms of East-West confrontation.

What the Administration is losing sight of is that the character of the social problems in Latin America has both
a historical and structural origin. This is a region constantly pressed by rigid and authoritarian political structures that have been
unable to transfer the gains of economic growth to the masses, thus maintaining a very unequal society. A second element
is the constant real as well as psychological presence of the U.S. in the region. The subcontinent has always been
seen as a natural space of America’s influence, but there is a cost to this form of domination in the
world economy.

Both the political and economic structures of international relations have been changing. One aspect of this change is manifested in
the new connotations of nationalism in Latin America. This powerful element in domestic politics in the region is advocated for
different purposes and with different objectives by both the right and the left. Probably the most striking example is Argentina’s
fight for the Malvinas. These developments have given rise to increasing attempts of independent foreign policy by the major countries
in the region. Venezuela and Mexico have joined in the San Jose Treaty, providing subsidized oil to Central America and
the Caribbean. They have later formed the Contadora Group with Panama and Colombia to search for a negotiated settlement in
the area. Both Brazil and Mexico have expressed their rejection of the current perspective in Washington. A leading analyst in
Mexico has stated that: “The tendency to simplify Third World affairs into nothing but negotiating items for the superpowers and
the arrogant exercise of hegemonic power over zones of influence are intolerable to countries such as Mexico that aspire to
determine their own internal as well as their own foreign policy.” And Brazil’s foreign minister declared that: “To reduce Brazil
to the role of a supporting actor does not suit us... We are not going to turn the country into
a package in a system of obedient forces, as if we did not have any wills and needs, as if
we did not have deeply rooted traditions and options.”

The problems faced by the countries of Latin America are the basis for these positions and reflect a fundamental difference
in their perception of what their national interests are vis-a-vis those of the United States. In the case of Mexico,
the need for negotiation and stability in the region is a question of fundamental importance. Here, vital interests mean the
need to avoid increasing pressures on the political and economic structures. A military buildup in the Caribbean Basin might lead
to arguments on the need to increase its own military strength to cope with challenges to its national security. This
will increasingly undermine the now decreased possibilities of generating economic growth and will press on the enormous burden of inequality.
The well-known and often-praised Mexican stability can thus be jeopardized, constituting a major problem for the United States, which might
just be pushing the domino theory into a self-fulfilling prophecy.

The problems of Central America and the Caribbean with their increased complexity are calling for a change in the political
approach of American foreign policy in the region. As one analyst has argued, what is needed is “more diplomacy and
less crisis management.”

Bendesky is a Fulbright Scholar in Residence at the Center forSpecial Studies. On Observing Internal Standards
Thomas Allen and Christi Baggett

The Goodwin-Exxon Awards shall ordinarily be presented to one student from the sophomore class, one student from the junior class,
and one student from the senior class, chosen by a committee made up of students, faculty, and administrative staff, on
the basis of his or her quality of life in the campus community during the preceding year. The Goodwin-Exxon Award
is designed to recognize qualities other than unusual accomplishments in scholarship, leadership, and sports. Its purpose is to select students
who typify the kind of cooperative support of campus activities and warm, caring relationships with fellow students which many observers
have remarked upon as being important elements of the campus lifestyle at Davidson College. The award shall take the form
both of a plaque recognizing the recipient and of a cash grant, part of which the individual will contribute to
a charitable cause of his/her choice.

To receive the Goodwin-Exxon Award, a student should represent the highest standards of Davidson College in character, good sportsmanship, friendliness,
consideration for others, high ethical standards, faithfulness to duty, enthusiasm, tolerance, and concern for the less fortunate.

We object to the Goodwin-Exxon Award. For all its good intentions, we question its merit because: a) the cash grant
could be used directly for more constructive purposes; b) the award implies an absolute high standard of character for Davidson
College, and c) it implies that internal standards of character can be observed and accurately interpreted.

Recognizing character with a gift of money seems somehow inappropriate. Granted, half of the $500 award is given to the
charity of the recipient’s choice, but could not the whole $500 be channeled by the grantors to a Good Cause?
The apparent intention of the founders is to somehow reward superior character in the same way that scholarships reward achievements
in academics, leadership, and sports. But whereas scholarships further the recipients’ pursuits, the $500 does not further the character development
of the recipients. Because of the nature of the qualities recognized (such as “concern for the less fortunate”), a monetary
gift seems to be incongruous with the honor bestowed, or at least to serve no purpose.

The selection committee chooses those nominees who seem to “represent the highest standards of Davidson College.” We reject the implication
that the students, faculty, and administration of Davidson uphold a collective High Standard, or even a Standard approved by the
majority. Even at a school as small as Davidson, there are over 1500 possible valid opinions on such qualities as
friendliness and enthusiasm—opinions that are too different to be boiled down to one. As Pascal said, “Each man judges everything
in terms of his own being.”

Even if the committee could establish one highest standard of character, motives (whether based upon the “highest” standards of character
or the “lowest”) are not necessarily demonstrated by actions. Walking in the CROP walk could be purely a social activity—the
committee could reward the contribution of a “social walker” to the CROP cause, but can it justifiably declare that the
contribution is evidence of the walker’s inward “concern for the less fortunate”? Conversely, the committee will probably never see, much
less evaluate, the actions of the person who misses the Walk to listen to a distraught friend.

Even if such judgment is valid, the act of choosing involves both positive judgment and negative. Because the Standard is
imposed upon Davidson College, each person who is not chosen is, by implication, “less” than the recipient. Whether or not
students accept the Standard of the committee, they are measured to it and ranked accordingly. The award seems to thrust
competition into the realm of character development; it also seems to reinforce the tendency of the Davidson community to make
clear-cut distinctions—the fortunate and the less fortunate, male and female, the real world and the “subculture of football players,” the
eating house member and the independent, white and black, the active and the idle.

Our intention is not to criticize or degrade the recipients themselves, or the intentions of the founders. The system of
peer nominations at least works to eliminate the most obvious elements of competition. And we do not imagine that the
negative possibilities we have suggested are the rule, but that they are possibilities the system fails to recognize. Therefore, we
feel it is presumptuous of the Award to establish a form of character, a list of “the important elements of
Davidson College according to the remarks of many observers.” We feel it is presumptuous of the Award to discern and
quantify such a complex thing as character and reward it with a monetary prize. We wonder whether such an award
has any actual value.

Thomas Allen, a sophomore economics major, is from Wheaton, IL and Christi Baggett is a sophomore English major from Thomasville,
GA.
