10 Friday, September 30, 1983/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

~ Don’t Panic

When North Carolina’s new drinking age law goes into effect at midnight tonight, several other events will happen: some freshmen
will enjoy their last beer buzz, some upperclassmen may start worrying about getting arrested, some will worry about the unstable
fate of their social life in general. It will be a time for change, a time for responsibility, but not
a time for panic.

No one can deny that the new drinking law will affect the College. Policies and procedures for Patterson Court, freshmen
halls, and the 900 Room will have to change. But this does not mean that the law will necessarily interfere
with the College’s social life. Davidson students should view the law as another regulation that must be followed, not as
a debilitating restriction.

The 900 Room will probably be the place most affected by the change. Dining Service Director Carleton Pritchard has decided
to stop selling pitchers of beer in the 900 Room, which means that we may expect to see long lines
at discos, fewer games of quarter bounce, and fewer drinkers at Mellow Monday.

But those changes don’t mean that we should stop using the 900 Room. The College could have excluded underage students
from the Room in order to enforce the new law more easily. But it didn’t. The school wanted to keep
the Room open for all students, and that’s the way we should keep it. The 900 Room is a unique
spot for social activity, and though the law will make drinking less convenient, we should still use the 900 Room.

Patterson Court parties will be affected to a lesser degree. The PCC and the IFC have agreed on hand stamping
and ID checking as the primary method of enforcement. Beer trucks will be the hardest aspect to monitor.

Freshmen halls will also be affected. No money from social budgets will be used on alcohol. The hall counselors will
not check up on the freshmen, however. They will trust freshmen to be responsible for their own behavior.

The College has chosen to keep its hands off the issue. It has left the issue of enforcement up to
the individual Houses and fraternities. The College has helped the students’ position by refusing to give student IDs to undercover
ABC agents.

John Barefoot, the ABC officer who spoke to the fraternities, houses, and hall counselors two weeks ago, spewed some harsh
words on the subject of enforcement, threatening to enforce the law with undercover agents. But their words cannot possibly equal
their actions. After all, how can three officers monitor all of Mecklenburg County?

Drunk driving will also be more strictly enforced. The State will set up stop points to check for drunk drivers.
We encourage students to party on campus rather than seeking their thrills somewhere else. The Fijis have bought a new
bus to transport students to their parties. This is a realistic policy that reflects genuine concern.

But with all this talk of hand stamping, secret agents, and new restrictions, we have forgotten to mention those most
directly affected by this change: the freshmen. It is the freshmen who will be denied the drinking privilege, but they
will also be responsible for enforcing the law. Freshmen must take it upon themselves to obey the law. If they
don’t, they are only jeopardizing their fellow students who are in charge of enforcing it.

We hope that freshmen will be able to obey the law and still enjoy a reasonable social life. Dry rush
may be bad, but it can’t be much worse than the dry heaves.

In conclusion, the new drinking law will go into effect at midnight tonight and there’s nothing we can do about
it. If we wanted to stop the law, we should have said something last spring. But now that the law
is here, we must face it with optimism. We can live with the law if we want to. If our
social life crumbles, it is our fault, not the state legislature’s.

PCC Correction

To the Editor:
Please allow me to correct an error in the minutes of the September 20 Patterson Court Council Meeting. I call
your attention to item 12, which states that at this meeting Dean Terry and I announced the closing of ATO.
This is entirely incorrect! The decision to close was made by our house membership on September 21. No announcement of
any kind could have been made at the PCC meeting, since no decision had been made. While comments were made
concerning the possibility of our close, this is a far cry from an official announcement.

In addition, while we appreciate Dean Terry’s guidance in this matter, ATO would not ask Dean Terry to make this
announcement for us.

Thank you for the opportunity to correct this error.

William Crone, Treasurer

At future Patterson Court functions expect to find:

IDs required. Please remember to have your College ID or Driver’s License with you.

Hand Stamps. Those of legal drinking age will receive a stamp.

It is your responsibility to have your hand stamped at parties with beer trucks. Without one you run the risk
of being questioned.

Remember: If you drink underage at a Patterson Court party, you are not only violating the law but also jeopardizing
the Patterson Court house, for it is their responsibility to ensure that they do not serve to minors.

The Patterson Court Council
