The Davidsonian / Friday, May 6, 1983

Spectre Of Controversy Haunts Court

By ROSS HOLT

As the Committee of 18 went to work in the fall of 1970, the College discontinued official rush. In response, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Phi Delta Theta, Kappa Alpha, Sigma Nu, Kappa Sigma, and Alpha Tau Omega — under the leadership of Sig-Ep member Lyman Parrigin — planned and executed an unofficial rush in the fall of 1970. Parrigin and representatives from each participating fraternity talked up the unofficial rush among freshmen, but by December 11, 1970, when bids were sent out, only four houses still participated. Although a hall counselor called the rush “a big flop,” it netted approximately 40 percent of the freshmen.

By the time the fraternities had distributed their unofficial bids, the Committee of 18 had designed the guidelines for self-selection. It planned for freshmen to be randomly assigned to eat two meals at a house each term of freshman year. At the end of spring term, each freshman would self-select the house of his choice. In addition, the committee made arrangements to take over the financial affairs of those houses which wished it to do so. The committee also presented the fraternities with four possible plans of action for reconciling themselves to the new system, and it laid down a December 15 deadline for the fraternities’ decisions. The options were: 1) to conform to the College plan, retaining national charter and house; 2) to “go local,” keeping the house but losing the charter; 3) to keep the charter but give up the house; 4) to fold.

When the deadline arrived, SAE and PiKA had elected the first option; Beta Theta Pi, Kappa Sigma, Pi Kappa Phi, and ATO had chosen to go local; KA, Phi Gamma Delta, Phi Delt, and Sig Ep took option three; and Sigma Chi opted to fold. Among the fraternities choosing the third option, KA, Sig Ep, and Fiji planned to move off campus, while the Phi Delts chose to wait until the end of the year before making a final decision. PiKA, in choosing the first option, announced an open-door policy in total cooperation with the College’s new system.

Self-selection Implemented

For better or for worse, self-selection went into effect in January 1971, and the random assignees reported varying degrees of acceptance among the houses. At any rate, by the end of January the system seemed to be floundering on the “shoals of apathy.” The Davidsonian reported that although the system worked technically, both fraternity members and freshmen noted a great deal of apathy from one another. At this early stage, some fraternity members proposed a compromise involving a two-tier system, but the administration quickly rejected the idea. In an attempt to realign the system, Dean of Students Will Terry began reassigning freshmen on a weekly basis, and finally, he called for an earlier self-selection operation to alleviate tension among freshmen and to reduce the financial strain on the houses. The process, completed in early May, seemed to work well.

Sig Eps Challenge System

As 1971 drew to a close, however, a new challenge to the College’s system appeared. Sig Ep and Fiji had laid firm plans to establish themselves off campus. The Trustees reaffirmed their stand that no College-sanctioned organization could operate living and dining facilities off campus. The Davidson Town Council also instituted zoning procedures to disallow “boarding” facilities within the town limits. Sig Ep, however, slipped in before the zoning ordinance went into effect. With Sig Ep situated on Main Street and Fiji breaking ground for a lake house, as well as KA and Phi Delt threatening to move off, College officials began to draw up contingencies to prevent the off-campus fraternities from competing with the new eating system on campus. KA and Phi Delt asked during the summer of 1971 to be allowed to test the waters on Patterson Court during the coming academic year. The two organizations struck a deal with the administration and were allowed to retain their charters and their houses.

The College system, however, broke down in November 1972, with the failure again of the random assignments. With the possibility of coeducation looming ever bigger, though, there was a consensus that the problems would work themselves out as the campus changed. This, coupled with another reasonably successful self-selection in the spring, quieted the sporadic criticisms which cropped up.

During the ’72-73 school year, the focus of controversy returned to the off-campus fraternities. Sig Ep held its rush early in the year.Student Life Committee questioned that practice, suggesting that it might deprive some freshmen of the right to self-selection. Although the Sig Eps held a position on the SLC, they elected not to hold a voting position. Hence, when the Council levied a $100 fine on the organization for every pledge it initiated, the Sig Eps ignored the censure, claiming they were not under the Council’s jurisdiction.

Given the current situation, do we as a community have the imagination, foresight, and initiative to do more than sit by and wait for total disintegration? —Sam Spencer, 1970

It was a very good year. The faculty was mad, the students were mad, the administration was mad, and the trustees were mad. —The Davidsonian, 1971

I think our local chapters of Phi Beta Kappa and ODK should be forced to adopt self-selection. If they refuse, throw ‘em off campus! —Phil Davies ‘81

Nothing dealing with this system is eternal. —Will Terry, 1978

An oral encouragement is really a thinly disguised bid. —A national fraternity member, 1981

In 1970, College Samuel Spencer singlehandedly reorganized the Court. Now the court, if it acts decisively, can shape its own future. —Davidsonian editorial, 1981

His doctrine is the “two-tier” system, a form of snobbery designed to do exactly as it sounds — divide Davidson into two tiers, upper and lower. —Mike Mason ‘83, 1981

The whole matter has been about the biggest pain-in-the-neck in my whole 12 years as Dean, because there are so many paradoxes built into the system. —Will Terry, 1983

I am still convinced that self-selection can work with fraternities present on the basis of honesty and good faith all-round, but only if the fraternities want it to work. If this is judged to be impossible, then I would give up fraternities altogether. This is a solution I would choose with reluctance, for I know the strong feelings that Davidson alumni and students have about their fraternity experience. But I cannot in good faith find justification for college support of a system under which students are unnecessarily damaged. —Sam Spencer, 1983 Convocation speech

SECOND OF TWO PARTS

Additionally, Sig Ep members had self-selected themselves into an eating house called Random House. To counter the monopoly of a house on campus by the off-campus fraternity, the administration enacted a provision requiring that each Court house must have at least 20 percent non-fraternity members in its rolls. When the administration executed that legislation in May 1973, the Sig Eps could not meet the requirement and within six months, Random House went under. These incidents created a great deal of bad blood between the Sig Eps and the administration. With the graduation of several staunch bid-system supporters, however, the Sig Eps became more conciliatory, and the controversy eventually died away.

On campus, the system of self-selection had, by early 1974, begun to deteriorate. The remaining nationals had — some as early as fall 1971 — developed a system in which oral encouragements were used as bids. Discouragement, when it occurred, was passive. The fraternities had circumvented the system in spirit, at least, if they had not directly violated the letter. But the system worked much as it does now, and the only complaints arose in the occasional letter or editorial in The Davidsonian. No major changes occurred until spring 1977 when overcrowding in some houses moved the Patterson Court Council to examine self-selection. In April, the PCC studied four proposals: a staggered bid/self-selection system in which those students not receiving bids would be placed at the bottom of the self-selection waiting list; a lottery-by-house system; a proposal to computerize the current system; and a system in which a house would fill a certain number of available spots through self-selection and a certain number through bids.

The PCC acted upon the first proposal, approving it and sending it to the CCRL. The PCC action reopened the old controversy, and in September 1977, the CCRL voted to uphold self-selection without the PCC alterations.

Oral Encouragements Approved

In 1978, the administration gave its approval to oral encouragement without discouragement. In October 1979, the CCRL established guidelines that shaped the Court into the system we know today by establishing the three-meal minimum and acquaintance requirements. Since then, Patterson Court has faded into and out of the news until this year when yet more questions have been raised.

Resources consulted in compiling this history include Student Life Committee minutes, a Patterson Court history written by James Spears in 1974, College Archivist Chalmers Davidson, and old Davidsonian issues.