Interviews with candidates for editor Meador, Resnik oppose Kirkpatrick

On Tuesday, January 11, Peggy Pierotti '86 of The Davidsonian interviewed the three candidates for the position of Davidsonian Editor using identical questions. David Resnik and Ann Meador are running as a team against Kirk Kirkpatrick; elections will be held on Tuesday, January 18. These interviews were conducted separately. The following is an unedited, except for grammar, transcript of the interviews. Some questions were removed by permission of all candidates.

Davidsonian: First, please tell us about yourselves — describe your activities and qualifications.

Meador: My name is Ann Meador. I am a sophomore and an English major-to-be. I have worked with the paper since last spring; I started primarily with production, and this fall I have gotten a lot more involved with it in terms of production and also editing. I have seen all different kinds of aspects of how the paper works. I feel like I’ve spent a lot of time in this office talking with the people on the staff. I’m really interested in editing and a career in publishing books or a magazine. The experience I had in high school was working with the literary magazine, and I feel that it’s helping me here. I also had an internship in Nashville with a publisher for the past three summers, and that’s given me a lot of experience as well. The more I edit, the more comfortable I feel with it.

Resnik: My name is David Resnik; I am a sophomore philosophy major. I am considering a career in journalism, or possibly philosophy — somewhere in writing. I have had experience in high school; I was editor of my high school paper. I have also had internships on the Chapel Hill Newspaper, The Pittsboro Herald, and The Durham Morning Herald. I started working for The Davidsonian last winter — towards the end of the spring, I became News Editor, and I’ve been that ever since. I’ve certainly seen a lot about the news that goes on at this college, but I’ve also had a chance to become informed in matters such as organization, production, business, and layout.

Kirkpatrick: My name is Kirk Kirkpatrick. I am a sophomore and an economics major. I am on a 4-year army ROTC scholarship here at Davidson. As for experience, I don’t have any experience writing for or working with The Davidsonian; however, I do have prior newspaper experience. I ran my high school paper for the last two years as Managing Editor and as Editor my senior year. I know how to put out a newspaper. I don’t know how The Davidsonian puts out a newspaper, but I am aware of the process. I realize that this looks like I am suffering from a lack of experience, but I don’t think this is terribly important because had I worked for The Davidsonian, I think that I would have had some writing experience as well as a vague idea of what goes on with The Davidsonian staff. I don’t believe that the editor should primarily be a writer, but I think the editor should be a manager. I don’t see that working with The Davidsonian would have provided that much further information to me.

Davidsonian: What other activities do you have besides The Davidsonian?

Meador: I work college bowl as an extra-curricular. I don’t feel that there is anything right now that would limit the amount of time I could spend on the paper.

Resnik: I’m a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. I do a little reading and writing and harmonica playing in my spare time, but I don’t see anything that would come above the paper.

Kirkpatrick: My only extracurricular activity aside from the possible editorship of The Davidsonian is ROTC. While ROTC does take up a certain amount of time, that amount does not significantly take away from the time I would have to spend as editor.

Davidsonian: What role do you feel The Davidsonian has or should have here at Davidson?

Resnik: I thinkThe Davidsonian’s primary purpose is to maintain the journalistic integrity of the college publications, and by doing so to inform students as best as it can on issues pertaining to them and to entertain them. I think The Davidsonian is performing that purpose right now, but I think it can be performed better. I would like to see the students entertained a little more as well as more news that pertains to them in the paper.

Meador: The newspaper shouldn’t be a sensational thing — we shouldn’t seek to find controversy to write about in the paper. If there is something controversial going on, I think it's important that we cover it, but I think we should seek out the issues on the campus, and also not just be an information sheet.

Kirkpatrick: I think that The Davidsonian should have a voice. Since I’ve been at Davidson, I don’t think it has had a clear voice. It’s the only way students have to voice their opinions, and their voices should be heard. I think The Davidsonian is a cacophony of different voices. When I flip through The Davidsonian, I have a hard time deciding where The Davidsonian stands on the semester system, Spencer’s resignation... I think The Davidsonian needs to become a voice — the voice of Davidson, the voice of the students.

What changes do you have in mind for The Davidsonian in terms of such things as organization, staff, layout, or focus of stories?

Meador: David and I have talked about this a lot in planning our campaign. We would like to see a more informed editorial policy — we'd like to see the paper have weekly editorials. We'd like to make the paper pleasing visually. I think we’re constantly improving, and I think we can continue to move in that direction. I think we can run articles that are perhaps not longer, but that cover more information. In terms of features, we'd like to see stories that appeal to a wide group of people — not just esoteric, long, intellectual articles.

Resnik: Overall we would like to open up the paper and make it more available to students for working on it and for being able to identify and read it. We’re going to try to build our staff up as much as we can — we will encourage all people to work for us. One of the best things we could do would be to build up the staff because without involved people we can’t make any great strides forward.

Kirkpatrick: I think that The Davidsonian is a very, very mediocre newspaper and I think that it’s a shame because the student body which it is supposed to reflect is anything but mediocre. I’m running for Davidsonian Editor primarily because I’m offended by bad journalism and I think The Davidsonian reflects bad journalism. The problem stems from lack of involvement and lack of The Davidsonian staff being representative of the student body. Student involvement — more people have to be involved in The Davidsonian than the handful that puts it together every Thursday night. I have a lot of respect for the people who stay up those late hours, but I think the fact that there are so few and that they have to work in such haste — I think that this is reflected in the paper. The paper looks like it’s written at 4:00 in the morning. The answers to a lot of The Davidsonian’s problems are more staff and more importantly, a better organized staff. The Davidsonian has to be better organized, and that’s the primary job of the editor — to be a leader, not necessarily a writer. Unless the editor can, by the force of his personality and the sweat of his brow, get interested people to write good, well-written, well-thought-out, deep articles, there is no way we can have a good paper.

Ann G. Meador
David Resnik

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 January 1983