18 Friday, March 25, 1983 The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1917

One Down, Ten to Go

This week marked the first death in recent years of a Patterson Court eating house. (See news article, p. 1) With about 40 members, ETC probably should close, but reasonable or not, its demise will be felt all around the Court. Mixed signals and ambivalence from the Administration hurt ETC’s chances of survival. It could easily happen again. It is time to worry.

The way a house is perceived plays a crucial role in its survival, and really, the entire small-group dining system. No one wants to invest their time, money, or allegiance in a house which appears to be in trouble. ATO and Phi Delt have been fighting this problem for years, and it will get more acute now. The life of a house is really a slippery slope: once a house begins to slip, stopping the slide becomes harder. The Administration’s attitude makes it all the more slippery.

Upperclassmen on the Court generally feel that the College administration is, if not actually hostile, at best ambivalent to the continued existence of small-group dining at Davidson. No one can forget that the College spent $3.6 million on a Commons designed to feed the entire student body. Whether or not a plan exists to deep-six the eating houses, the perception is there, and that’s what really counts. The Business Office’s insistence on assessing ETC members for possible house deficits makes the slope that much steeper. In fact, this policy largely caused the death of ETC by hastening the panicky run from the house.

We do not call for direct subsidies in this case, but rather more understanding and less enthusiasm to put a House under. If the Administration’s commitment to Patterson Court and the eating house system is genuine, it should declare that intent. We call on the Administration to issue a statement on its position concerning Patterson Court, because many seem to feel the College is simply waiting for the Houses to die one by one from benign neglect. If the Court is to continue to be an important part of Davidson, the College’s commitment must be clear. At the moment, it seems the College is barely tolerating the system until it dies, much like an elderly aunt. Patterson Court deserves better than a slow death. If the Administration remains silent, we can only assume that the perception of quiet hostility is justified and continuing.

Draft and Aid

The federal government’s plan to tie financial aid with registering for the draft is unfair, hypocritical, and dangerous. It burdens colleges with enforcing the law, surely a unique role for these institutions. Even if the national legislators don’t recognize the folly of the law, Davidson should see it and structure its admissions and financial policies accordingly.

The new law requires proof of draft registration for males before they can qualify for financial aid. The rationale behind the new law brings a plethora of absurdities: why is it only this law that the colleges have to enforce? Should a college also require students to clear themselves and their parents with the IRS before bestowing an education on them? Should the Dean of Admissions check for compliance with the government’s drug laws as well? What about speeding? If financial aid officers are to be assigned any law enforcement role, there is no logical stopping point. Perhaps we should just issue them uniforms and Cushmans and be done with it.

Another major flaw with the law is that it is inherently discriminatory. Aid can be withheld from men, but no women will ever be affected. The law also discriminates against college students in general, and students seeking aid in particular. Men whoDon’t go to college or don’t need financial aid will never have to prove they have registered. Davidson has not yet formulated its position on this policy. The College can recognize the problems with the law and help those affected without breaking the law. Earlham, Haverford, and Swarthmore Colleges have pledged to offer financial aid to students who are affected by the law. Davidson should do the same. Virtually all Davidson men have registered, so the monetary effect would be minimal. The symbolic and moral results would, however, be significant.

LETTERS

Safety First

To the Editors:

Mother always told me that it is better to be safe than to be sorry; I wish that more Davidson students would follow her advice. We here at Davidson are so lucky to have not only an Honor Code, but an Honor Code that works. But we are also prone to forget that the Code works only for those who believe in it. We've all heard and believe that Davidson is a sheltered environment, and we are tempted into feeling a false sense of security. But the “real world” is creeping more and more into our lives here. In comparison with other towns and particularly with other campuses, Davidson is a safe place. Yet it is not immune to theft, peeping toms, assault, and even rape. Sometimes it is outsiders that commit the offenses; sometimes it is not.

There are many things around campus that could be done to improve everyday safety. Patterson Court should consider issuing keys to members and locking the doors at night to discourage theft late at night. Because there is only one entrance/exit in the 24-hour study room and because of its location, there should be an emergency phone available to those who might need to contact security or the town police. After the switchboard closes there is no direct way to contact security; there should be a direct emergency line to them—not only after hours, but around the clock. There should probably be locks on the bathroom doors with keys for those on the hall or in the dorm to ensure the safety of those who shower during times when there are few people on the hall or late at night. And there should be more lighting along popular paths around campus.

More importantly are the things that each one of us can do. Even though we are all used to our particular habits, there are some rules of common sense that we should all make an effort to follow. We should learn to lock our doors when no one will be there for extended periods of time and particularly at night. We should be careful about taking showers late at night, and avoid running alone or late at night. When studying late at an eating house, Chambers, or the all-night study room, we should make sure someone knows where we are. Now that warm weather has finally arrived, we should be careful about sunbathing alone in secluded areas. And we should be careful not to attract potential assaults or rapes by leaving shades up at night. But above all, we need to report everything to security as soon as it happens or as soon as there is reasonable suspicion—there is nothing they can do if they don’t have the information.

Another thing we can do is keep a continuing awareness. One way is to attend available classes and lectures on the topic. One such class on rape and assault will be held soon by a group of police officers from Charlotte. The classes will be sponsored by the Women’s Concerns Committee in the near future. After all, isn’t it better to be safe than sorry?

Frances Palmer ’84