The Davidsonian
Friday, March 18, 1983

Time for an Activist SGA.
Jeff Mann

The Trustees are currently enmeshed in the throes of a search for a new College president. Students will soon become
embroiled in the clash for SGA president. Just as a new College president can signal a fundamental change in how
the school operates, a new SGA president can change that organization. It’s time for that change.

The SGA has slipped into a philosophy that its primary purpose is to help the school. Certainly, nothing is wrong
with that, but when this mission is interpreted to mean that the SGA should become an adjunct to the Administration,
it has gone too far. The Senate is not a service organization. Handing out exam envelopes and organizing career symposia
and fundraising phonathons are fine projects as they stand, but should exist as an asterisk to the SGA’s more important
mission: to represent students’ views and exert influence on how the school is run.

The SGA should realize that it is really an adversary of the Administration and Trustees—not in a hostile or antagonistic
sense, but in the recognition that they all represent different constituencies. The college president represents some interests, the Faculty another,
and the SGA ours. All these groups push for their group’s interests, or should. When the SGA declines to push
for influence, a part of the system is left out. The SGA must remain fiercely independent of the Administration.

I am not advocating that the SGA become a marauding, nihilistic band bent on attacking every official proposal; I really
just want the system to work the way it’s designed to. The SGA must remain fiercely independent of the administration.

The SGA has failed to push for student influence in several areas. The semester system debate went on apparently oblivious
to students’ opinions. An SGA poll showed that students overwhelmingly opposed the switch, right before it was approved. That there
were problems with the poll does not at all vindicate the SGA for the lack of input to the decision.
SGA support for changing Davidson’s sexist admissions policies has been at best lukewarm. Late last term the SGA backed down
from condemning the discounting of student opinion in faculty evaluation, a stand they took only after insistent prodding. Like so
many initiatives, it was relegated to the pit of “further study in committee.”

An active SGA is certainly not unprecedented. Just four years ago, the SGA pushed the Faculty into adopting an evaluation
form. We now have Good Friday off primarily because of Senate pressure. While not the best, this is the kind
of palpable influence the SGA has apparently foresworn. They would probably shelve these kinds of actions today in the interests
of preserving “good working relationships,” as if that were the highest goal of any group, superseding what they want to
get done.

The next few years and even months will see Davidson change more than it has in the last decade. Several
of the College’s most influential officials are leaving after this year, including College President Sam Spencer, Computer Services Director Robert
DeSieno, and Union Director C. Shaw Smith. Other major personnel changes are also likely. Their successors will determine what course
Davidson will take for quite some time. For that reason, it is especially important now that we have an activist
SGA, unafraid to push and even disagree. Despite common perceptions, it is possible to make a difference in this place,
now more than ever. If we decline to try, we will have lost the best chance we've ever had, or
will have for a long time to come.

Jeff Mann is a Junior journalism | Center major from Atlanta, Georgia and associate editor of the Davidsonian.

Monroe Endorsed
To the Editor:

Campus elections at Davidson rarely generate much fervor or concern. On a campus this small it is surprising how many
students cast haphazard, uninformed votes. Next Tuesday’s vote for SGA President deserves to be different for two reasons. First, the
new SGA President will bear an especially important responsibility. The '83-'84 academic year will...be crucial both for the College and
for the role students play in College decisions. The new College President will take office and immediately confront important decisions,
including final plans for the switch to a semester system and urgent issues regarding the social structure and financial health
of Patterson Court. More than any other student, the SGA President will have the College President’s ear. The precedent this
student sets will in large measure determine the pattern of student-Administration relations in the future.

Second, there is a candidate who, if elected, will be the strong, responsible SGA President Davidson needs next year: Hunter
Monroe. Hunter’s creative mind, organizational ability, and drive are obvious to all who have worked with him. He is an
articulate and personable leader, and well-rounded in his interests and activities, which have included hall counselorship, jazz ensemble, DCF, Amnesty
International, fraternity membership, and computer work. Most of all, Hunter understands the potential importance of the SGA President’s position and
has the skills to make the most of the office. He recognizes that, while SGA’s programming commitments, like the Phonathon,
are valuable and must be continued, it is time for the organization to take a more aggressive policy role. Our
public endorsement of Hunter demonstrates our trust in his abilities and the importance we attach to these elections. This endorsement
reflects our individual judgments, not the collective opinion of organizations with which we work. We urge students to vote for
Hunter Monroe next Tuesday.

Elizabeth Kiss '83
Sherburne Laughlin '83
Edward LaRoche Hay, Jr. '86
Katie Dagenhart '84
Craig Detweiler '85

---

Taylor Endorsed

To the Editor:

In making a decision politically, one must first realize that no candidate can be justly considered for a job on
the basis of an emotional or moral appeal. The only proper decision in voting should be grounded on the qualities
the candidate possesses. For the office of SGA president, one of the prime criteria for the candidacy of each individual
should be experience, since all the qualities which will best enable a person to do his job effectively will be
derived from the various encounters he has had before. From this standpoint, we feel there is no one more qualified
for this office than Burt Taylor.

He has served on the SGA in various capacities the past two years. In his service, he has covered a
wide expanse of Davidson activities, from social life to education. He is a member of the Educational Policy Committee, the
Trustee Contact Committee, Student Executive Council, Patterson Court Study Committee, and, while chairing the Resident Hall Council, Burt was instrumental
in revising the lottery system. This is only a small fraction of his record, but it does indicate the diversity
of his work. Moreover, the record itself is not as important as the commitment and wisdom which have developed through
these efforts. It is not speculation to suppose Burt can excel at this job, it is knowledge based on superb
previous performances. For this reason, we, the undersigned, support Burt Taylor for SGA President.

John Marks
Warren Gould
Jenny Gotto
Chip Hurley
Paul Baynard
John Ferguson
Melissa McKeithen
Minor Hinson
Keith Revell

---

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from our readers. We try to print all letters that are of general interest, but we
adhere to these four guidelines:

1. We require that letters be turned in by Tuesday at 7 p.m.
2. We require that letters be neatly typed.
3. We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have reason for
us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.
4. We reserve the right not to print letters that (a) function as advertisements; (b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or
inside jokes; (c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in many other letters printed on the same topic.
We also reserve the right to condense very long letters.

The Davidsonian does not in any way endorse the opinions expressed in the letters we print.
