Davidson Meets the Computer Age
Sloan grant will provide for fellowships and symposia
By JIM CROWE ’83

The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation recently announced that Davidson has received one of its prestigious “New Liberal Arts” development grants worth $250,000. The Sloan Foundation, a major funder for basic research in the United States, will offer over $3 million this year to selected colleges for programs designed to introduce the methods of applied math and technological development into the liberal arts curriculum.

Associate Professor of Psychology John Brockway, a member of the committee which drafted the Davidson grant proposal, described the grant as “the chance for educating our faculty so that they will become familiar and thoroughly comfortable with technological aspects, including applied mathematics, of their own disciplines.” Brockway further spoke of the grant in terms of the recognition of Davidson. “It means that we’re competing at the very highest level in the country successfully. We are among a very select group of schools.”

Davidson was among 33 of the nation’s more than 3500 liberal arts institutions invited to submit proposals to the foundation. The 33 schools were selected on the basis of the present mean Scholastic Aptitude Test scores of incoming freshmen. Each of the schools chosen was given a planning grant of $10,000 to support the proposal-writing efforts of faculty and consultants.

Upon receiving the invitation to apply for the program last spring, College President Sam Spencer appointed a Sloan Advisory Committee to draft a proposal for the grant. Associate Dean of the Faculty Nicholas Burnett was appointed director of the Sloan project, while professors Brockway, Robert DeSieno, Bruce Jackson, Earl MacCormac, Robert Manning, James Swisher, and Mary Thornberry, representing seven different departments, were enlisted as committee members. The committee met once or twice a week during the summer as a group and conducted a luncheon for all faculty to discuss the proposal. The committee hired consultants to assist with the completion of the proposal, including David Billington, Professor of Civil Engineering at Princeton, and Maynard Thompson, Professor of Mathematics at Indiana. The proposal was submitted on September 8. By December, the Sloan Foundation had announced that Davidson and nine others—Carleton, Lafayette, Grinnell, Mount Holyoke, Oberlin, Union, Vassar, Wellesley, and Williams—would receive grants of $250,000 to implement their proposals. The remaining schools were awarded $25,000 each.

Davidson’s success in the competition is particularly significant in light of the fact that no engineering programs are offered at the school. Most of the other winners benefit from the interaction with technical institutes within their schools or communities. Officials cite several factors which helped Davidson to stand out. Brockway, who met with representatives from all the winning schools recently in New York City, has read all the winning proposals. He said of the Davidson proposal, “It’s one of the better proposals. We won essentially on merit because we chose to educate our faculty and chose innovative-looking programs.” MacCormac pointed out that the Mathematics department had already taken a step in the general direction of the program 2 years ago when it made the explicit decision to move away from the pure areas of math to applied math.

DeSieno cited calculation, management of texts, computer-assisted instruction, presentation of images, database management, and the evolution of models as specific areas in which the computer will become more valuable to Davidson. Regarding exposure to the computer system in the liberal arts experience, DeSieno warned, “Computers will become so ubiquitous that the student who completes his education without at least some working knowledge of computers will be at an immediate disadvantage.” He went on to say, “Students need enough grasp of how computers work so that they won’t be intimidated by the technology, but will see the computer systems as tools to help them in whatever they are doing.”

The growing interest in computing at Davidson, stimulated by the recent installation of the new Prime 750 computer system, an administrative computer, and a host of systems components, will fit well into the spirit of the Sloan program. Director of Computer Services Robert DeSieno said that while only 18 months ago the number of computer...users was “a few dozen,” today there are almost 500 directories making 10,000 to 11,000 log-ins each month on the Prime 750 alone, with another 100-125 directories on the administrative computer. DeSieno said, “The purpose of the Computer Center is to supply the needs of the faculty, students, and administration for what kind of work they think is productive. Of course, the means of being productive are constantly changing now.” DeSieno was hired over two years ago to locate, obtain, and install a major computer system for the College. Having completed that objective, he says the major challenge of the Director’s position now is “to make the computer function in such a way that the College is tapping the full potential of the system.”

Work with the computer, however, represents only one aspect of the Davidson proposal. The focus of the Davidson Sloan proposal lies in enrichment programs for faculty in the social sciences and humanities over a period of two years. The proposal abstract states, “This program will provide opportunities for about 72 percent of Davidson’s 78 full-time faculty members in the humanities and social sciences.” The program itself has four parts — fellowships, symposia, summer workshops, and summer fellowships.

The Sloan grant will release twelve faculty members from teaching, two per term over the two-year period, to develop new courses. Each term over the two-year period, a Sloan faculty fellow will direct a symposium centering on the fellow’s new course ideas. These symposia will be open to all students of the Charlotte consortium, and they may involve participants from other institutions. Outside consultants hired to help direct the program will participate in at least two of the symposia.

Faculty summer workshops will train 30 members of the humanities and social science departments — 15 during each of two summers — in applied mathematics and computer methods. Bruce Jackson, head of the Math Department, will serve as director of the first applied math workshop from July 5 to August 1 of this year. Mathematics Professors Benjamin Klein and Richardson King will serve as workshop instructors. Two important mathematicians, Maynard Thompson and Thomas Saaty, have been signed to present guest lectures at the workshop.

Thompson, Professor of Mathematics at Indiana, will present the lectures during the first two weeks of the workshop. He has been an active advisor throughout the preparation of the proposal, having met with the Advisory Committee and with the faculty last summer. Enthusiasm for Thompson’s work runs high among members of the Advisory Committee. Jackson said, “Thompson has been very instrumental in devising curricula at liberal arts colleges and in teaching the use of mathematical models in a variety of academic disciplines.” Thompson co-authored a book which Jackson describes as “probably the most successful undergraduate text on modeling of the last decade.” Jackson also cited Thompson’s work on behalf of the Mathematical Association of America as significant to the process of teaching applied math concepts in liberal arts institutions across the country.

Thomas Saaty, Professor in the Graduate School of Business at the University of Pittsburgh, will present the last week of lectures. Saaty, who works in the field of the analytical hierarchy process, has written many books on a variety of topics. His works include such titles as Decision Making for Leaders, Mathematical Models of Arms Control and Disarmament, Thinking with Models, and The Spirit and Uses of the Mathematical Sciences. In addition to his writing, Saaty has served as a leader in operations research, a popular lecturer in the National Science Foundation’s Chautauqua Seminars, and as a consultant in the State Department and other government offices.

This summer’s workshop will deal generally with some of the mathematics topics found in the Davidson Math 24 course Probability, Matrix Algebra, and Graph Theory. Jackson said, “The emphasis will be on studying applications of these topics to serious academic pursuits in the literature of the humanities and social sciences. We hope the work done by faculty in learning to criticize models and to understand clearly the assumptions made by each model will help faculty to pursue these topics after the workshop.”

Both the workshops and the symposia will be conducted in direct cooperation with Johnson C. Smith University of Charlotte.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 February 1983