14 Friday, April 1, 1983 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1917

Athletics or Education

The new athletic complex is the next item on the Trustee’s building agenda. If the Trustees approve the Athletic Department’s recommendations, the new complex would include a 5,000-7,000 seat intercollegiate basketball arena, a central administrative core, a natatorium, and a multi-purpose center. It would solve the scheduling problems at Johnston gym, provide a home for our swimming team, and give our basketball players all the court they want.

The new sports complex, if approved, will significantly improve our athletic facilities. But it would also constitute a great commitment: millions of dollars in funds, several years of construction, and a lifetime of maintenance. This commitment will affect every aspect of the school, from the ants in Belk dorm to the students in the library. Though the funding of the construction of the complex will never affect the College’s annual budget, the maintenance of the complex would certainly cut into it. Davidson faculty salaries are comparatively low, in part, because of non-academic expenditures. The College intends to solicit a separate endowment for maintenance of the complex, but this is “an ideal situation” not a “practical one,” according to Vice-president for Development Jack Powers.

In short, the athletic complex begs the age-old question, “Which do we want — athletics or education?” The Trustees have expressed a strong commitment to major College basketball. They remember, misty-eyed, the days of Lefty Driesell and Davidson’s moment of national glory. A 5,000-7,000 seat arena — large enough for the student population with plenty of room for imports — is the first step toward big-time basketball; but is it a step we want to take?

The Davidson of the 1980s is not the Davidson of the 1960s. Over the last decade, especially during the last four years, Davidson has made great strides toward national prominence in academics. We are now the most highly selective college in the south according to some surveys. The average combined SATs of our students are climbing past 1200. We are sending our graduates to the best universities in the world. In short, we are a small step away from national prominence in education, but perhaps a giant leap away from the same stature in basketball.

There is no question that Davidson needs better athletic facilities of some sort. What is in contention is the extent of these new facilities. The Trustees must guard against the temptation to build a sports Xanadu when a sports complex will suffice.

No Popularity Contest

Honor Council elections take place this Tuesday. We urge everyone to vote randomly in these elections. We make this suggestion in response to a basic problem which plagues this election process: how does one ascertain a peer’s qualifications for the position? Reading a poster about someone may reveal a new name, but that’s about all. Only in rare circumstances does a certain typeface reveal more integrity than another. If, on the other hand, one shuns campaign literature and votes for an acquaintance with an unquestionably responsible nature, then the other candidates immediately lose a fair chance at election. Voting without complete knowledge of the candidates is irresponsible and ultimately unfair to both candidates and voters. But because it is impossible to judge someone’s qualifications for this office, complete knowledge of the candidates is impossible. Furthermore, picking a candidate on qualifications is impossible because no one running can ever...possess real experience in these positions; no adequate training exists for the Honor Council save the time a student spends on it. At this point, we make our plea for random elections. Consider the candidates for the posts. All have signed the Honor Pledge before arriving at Davidson; all theoretically possess redoubtable integrity. How many truly unqualified candidates can there be? Because respect for the Code is essential for a strong Honor Council, and because all students have sworn to live by it, the interest candidates show by entering the competition is qualification enough.

06. CAND JERE 's WHERE WE'LL PUT THE NEW BASKETBALL COURT...

LETTERS

Dog Burning

To the Editor:

This letter stands in protest against the unnecessary and tragic incident reported in last week’s Davidsonian. I realize that the dog found on the lawn of the Sig Ep house was dead before it was burned, for which I am thankful. I do not take exception to the fact that an animal’s dead body was burned; what sickened me was that whoever did it felt compelled to publicly display his unhealthy sense of humor. It’s sad to think that this kind of behavior amuses some people. I see in it only a manifestation of a disturbed mental state. I do not expect anything to be done about this; nothing can alter the facts. However, I feel that it is important to let others know that I was neither amused nor unaffected by the incident. I can only hope that public protest will help discourage any other person from behaving in such a destructive and disgusting manner.

Clare M. Eckert

Election

To the Editor:

On Tuesday, March 22 at 5:00 p.m. Mark Oldenburg, SGA Chancellor, met with the candidates for the offices of Senate, Student Solicitor, CCRL, and Honor Council to inform them of the rules and regulations concerning each race. In particular, the candidates for Honor Council were restricted to door-to-door campaigning only — no flyers, posters, or “parades.” This was clearly stated. Honor Council members are elected on the basis of their honor and integrity — two qualities which should be inherently associated with the person, rather than the quality of his handbills. One candidate has clearly violated the only restriction. Upon learning of this violation, the SGA acted immediately; it bent the rules. The SGA sent a notice to all Honor Council candidates informing them of the “confusion” surrounding the actual format of the campaigning. It is disappointing that such “confusion” could exist. It is even more disappointing that the SGA would, rather than disqualify the candidate, bend the rules to legitimize the candidate’s actions. Now tonight, Monday, March 28, a memo has been sent to the Honor Council candidates telling them that the election has been postponed to give them “time to adequately campaign if (they) wish to do so.” It also stipulates that ‘campaigners’ “should not deface the office for which (they) are a candidate.” Sadly, the office of Honor Council Representative was defaced when the first flyer was handed out. The question which now needs to be raised is: To what extent has the SGA been defaced by its handling of this campaign?

Spence G. Millen

Ed. note—The candidate in question acted under the authority of an official connected with the Honor System but not with the SGA. His intentions were honest; he believed he was justified in his actions.