Friday, September 16, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Dry Weather Summons Ghost Of Chambers

A vote sudden crosses the outline of the Old Chambers building which burned in 1921.

By Peggy Pierotti

Curious freshmen have puzzled looks at Chambers’ lawn as the drought and heat have brought the ghost of Mr. Chambers
himself, but actually of the Old Chambers building which burned over sixty years ago. According to College Historian Chalmers Davidson,
“One can usually see the markings in the grass where the four large columns of Old Chambers stood. But because
of the long drought we've had, you can see the outline of the whole building.”

Davidson explains that Maxwell was a wealthy North Carolina merchant who willed Davidson College one-quarter of a million dollars. Part
of the money was used to build Chambers Hall [completed in 1860]. He adds, “The contribution made Davidson the richest
college south of Princeton at the time.”

Chambers served quite a different purpose than it does now. The Davidson College Bulletin (December 1921) described the features of
the admired building: it housed over 130 students; contained the ROTC headquarters; contained five classrooms, two museums, departments of the
Old Union Library, the physics lab, and the large Commencement Auditorium Hall. The Bulletin wrote that “the building was most
imposing in its three-story height, with a cupola still more commanding in elevation and entrance adorned with four massive Doric
pillars.”

Davidson explains that some fun-loving students were responsible for the destruction of Old Chambers. “Students liked to see flames go
up the spiral staircase. There was a constant draft in the building. Students liked to catch papers on fire and
watch them come up the stairs.” However, on November 21, 1921, the game abruptly ended as Chambers caught fire.

According to The Charlotte News (July 27, 1981), “Davidson had no organized fire department then and the Mooresville department couldn’t
get through on the roads that were under construction. When Charlotte’s mayor phoned to offer his help it was too
late.” In the same article, Mary Beaty is quoted to have written, “Only the outer walls and four immense columns
were standing when College President W.J. Martin, ashes still in his hair, had a bugler summon the students to gather
near the old well.” These structures are responsible for the appearance of the phantom.

In an article by Davidson, Lucy Martin Currie (Mrs. Frontis Johnston) relates her reaction to the fire: “The fire cast
a weird light over everything. Later we learned that people over twenty miles away had seen the glow. The old
building had been the heart of the college and when it went, it seemed as if the whole college would
crumble to pieces.” But these fears were allayed. The Davidson College Bulletin (Sept. 1, 1922) relates that “the Executive Committee
of the College met at Davidson a few days after the fire and resolved to conduct a campaign at the
earliest possible date to raise funds to build a greater and better Chambers Hall.”adds that “with the help of a
major fund through a Rockefeller Foundation, the new Chambers building was built in 1929.” Student and faculty opinion vary as
to why the “ghost” exists (one freshman admitted to “have never noticed it before”). One anonymous freshman thought “that a
senior class burned its graduation year on the lawn.” In the Charlotte News (July 27, 1981), Davidson Professor of Physics
Larry Cain said “it may be that the old columns packed the earth down so much that during hot, dry
spells the grass thins on the area forming an outline.”

JUNIORS AND SENIORS EARN OVER $1000 PER MONTH

If you are a math, physics, chemistry, or engineering major with a “B” average or better, earn over $1000.00 per
month through your junior and senior years... summers included! The Navy's NUPOC (Nuclear Propulsion Officer) Collegiate Program is looking for
qualified individuals. Other benefits include:
***$3000 cash bonus immediately upon acceptance into the program
***$22,000 starting salary—$40,000-plus after just four years
***FREE Medical/Dental care and many other TAX-FREE benefits
***30 days PAID annual vacation
***1 year graduate-level training
***immediate responsibility
***Valuable engineering experience
***Education benefits
***Job security with fast promotions

If you're interested in finding out more, see the Navy Officer Programs Team, they’ll be on campus 20-22 September at
the Student Union. If you can’t make it, send your resume or transcripts to:

ROY SARVIS
U.S. NAVY OFFICER PROGRAMS
1001 Navaho Dr.
Raleigh, NC 27609
Or call 1-800-662-7231
9 am - 3 pm, MON-THURS

Davidson post office September 7. The joint venture between the post office and the town of Davidson entered the building
stages this summer amid some controversy. The new building will have many modern conveniences the old one lacked, including larger
facilities and new key-lock boxes instead of the present combination type. “We're sure looking forward to it,” explained postmaster John
Fisher. “Finally we’ll be able to handle everyone’s needs.” But some students are not quite so enthusiastic about the changes.
Junior Rob McCormick condemned the change, saying, “I resent having to walk that extra distance.” Other students find fault with
the new key locks. “It’s easier to forget a key than it is a combination,” said freshman Tim Nieldon.

Bob Johnson, owner of Peregrine House, denied rumors that the post office move will necessitate the destruction of the building.
“We need larger facilities,” Johnson explained. “Despite the rumors, many townspeople are excited about the move.” Irene Blackwell, head of
the Town Appearance Committee and owner of the Village Store, said, “The new Post Office will provide the impetus for
improvement in the Davidson Community.” The post office agreed to move if a sidewalk were built behind the Main Street
shops and that area were improved, according to Blackwell. “Everyone is cooperative about the venture because it means improvement for
the town,” she said.

The community is also excited because the post office will bring students off campus. Betty Johnson, co-owner of Peregrine House,
pointed out, “The new building will bring students into the center of town.” The post office will be replaced by
the student bookstore currently located in the Grey Student Union basement.
