Money and Culture

Last week, when the Davidsonian was scheduling an interview with Zubin Mehta, we were reminded of the neighborly relationship of
money and culture. Looking at Mr. Mehta’s minute-by-minute itinerary for his stay at Davidson made us feel sorry for the
man. Between rehearsals, luncheons, interviews, tours, and concerts, he had little time to be a human being. Although by all
accounts Mr. and Mrs. Mehta are warm, friendly people who seldom tire of shaking hands, it must be taxing to
take a weekend off from a yearly schedule of 150 concerts in two countries and do a benefit with all
the trappings.

Although the Mehtas seem altruistic in their desire to help young musicians and are here, more or less as a
favor to Joseph Robinson, the bottom line to them and everyone involved is money. No, not personal monetary gain but
the hope that many people will donate money to the Don Plott Scholarship Endowment. This scholarship fund is to provide
for music training that cannot be received at Davidson. Hopefully, the fund will differ from the Harper Scholarships which only
supplement a music student’s tuition during his stay at Davidson. The Plott Scholarships should be used to send students of
any major to where they need training.

Joseph Robinson and William Workman were both English majors at Davidson. David Edwards ’63 was Robinson’s roommate at Davidson and
played trumpet in the benefit concert. He is now an attorney in Chapel Hill. All of these men were liberal
arts majors, not fine arts majors. Davidson provided them with more of a background in the humanities than in music,
something few musicians have. Two of Robinson’s students from the Manhattan School of Music stayed at Davidson over the weekend.
Their education is very different from that of their teacher. Instead of studying literature and the sciences every night to
supplement their musical studies, like Davidson music majors do, they aim only to play the oboe. They probably play better
than anybody at Davidson but what happens if they do not become performers? They have very little to fall back
on. While it is hard to get into law school from the Conservatory, it is equally difficult to go from
Davidson to a career such as Robinson’s or Workman’s. Hopefully, through the Plott Scholarships, Davidson can offer young musicians the
opportunity of a liberal arts education as well as the valuable experience of studying performance away from Davidson.

Bringing Mr. Mehta to campus has not given Davidson culture. It has provided the money to send students to receive
music instruction they cannot receive here.

Town and Gown

As students, our haunts at Davidson are remarkably predictable. Dorms, eating houses, Chambers, the Union, and labs are our most
regular habitats and meeting places. Outside of ten o’clock walks to the Post Office and, once in a while, the
Village Store, we are generally synonymous with the geography of the campus. As a whole, students know little about the
town of Davidson. We ought toHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

know more. When an eating house or campus club is preparing to do a service project for the town, it
is hard to find a student who knows enough about the town of Davidson to suggest an appropriate and effective
service. That is, it was hard to find someone until the Y-Student Service Corps took on this problem. The Y-SSC
has taken notice of the lack of knowledge on the campus. Pete Skillern, the campus-community liaison for the Y-SSC, and
Doug Ammar, president of the Y-SSC, are the people to see if you want to schedule a service project in
the town. They have both met with most of the leaders of the town and campus and can accurately assess
the needs and resources of both. The Y-SSC has made itself a center for coordinating campus service projects in the
town. As a wide-reaching service organization, the Y is perfect to help coordinate service. It isn’t hard to find people
in Davidson who want and need organized help. From step tutoring and visiting senior citizens to helping the community center
provide 85-100 free hot lunches every day, Davidson students can put their education to work immediately. By getting the town
and gown together and providing a knowledgeable community liaison, the Y-SSC has done both a service.

But Army ROTC can help—two ways! First, you can apply for an Army ROTC scholarship. It covers tuition, books, and
supplies, and pays you up to $1,000 each school year it’s in effect. But even if you're not a scholarship
recipient, ROTC can still help with financial assistance—up to $1,000 a year for your last two years in the program.
For more information, contact your Professor of Military Science, Capt. Albert Brauer, Belk Dorm (ext. 170).

THE DAVIDSONIAN
The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the college year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: Davidsonian, Box
218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 140 and 160. Offices located on the top floor of the Student
Union. Subscriptions cost $10 per year. Advertising space available on request. Second-class postage paid at Davidson, NC 28036.

Stewart Cauley, Editor
David Resnik, News Editor
Jeff Mann, Assistant News Editor
Jeff Dempsey, Features Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Ann Meador, Production Editor
Anderson Scott, Photography Editor

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 28 January 1983

Tom Pafford, Executive Editor

EVEN STRAIGHT A'S CAN'T HELP IF YOU FLUNK TUITION.

Today, the toughest thing about going to college is finding the money to pay for it. Three-year scholarship deadline April
15th.

Fred Broadwell, Brien Butler, Clare Eckert, Jonathan Glance, Joe Jaworski, Matt Morris, John Verdi, Andrew Wilson, Features Staff
Debby Williams, Fine Arts Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeff Danese, Advertising Manager
Frank Hague, Tom Schilling, Circulation Manager
Scot Myers, Graphics
Boyd Blackburn, Duncan Fraser, Carl Hobson, Paulette Kurani, Anne Lambert, Tim McGaughey, Elodie McMillan, Peggy Pierotti, Mike Tantillo, News Staff
Kara Gilmore, Scott Huie, Garry Sullivan, Sports Staff
Neil Cooksey, Angelique Foster, John Lyday, Giana Staff
Rob Hollenbeck, Production Staff

---
