18 Friday, April 15, 1983 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

Campus Solidarity

Page eight of today’s Davidsonian contains a full-page ad in which 91 Davidson faculty members call for an eventual abolition of all nuclear arms. It is a dramatic gesture, but it stands as more than a political statement; it is a personal appeal directed at all students and members of the College community.

Before rushing to consider the political ramifications of this statement, we must recognize the ultimate and most important goal of the organizers: opening a dialogue between students and faculty on the ever-escalating issue of nuclear arms.

Though designed to reflect the opinions of the signers and not of a group, the statement on nuclear arms shows a great unity among the faculty. As Dr. Kaylor said, the 91 signatures represent a great variety of political and religious backgrounds. Such an overwhelming consensus despite greatly varied backgrounds is exceedingly rare. This consensus represents an opportunity in which the entire College community should take active part.

These faculty members have made a bold step toward the students in response to student attempts to increase campus awareness about nuclear arms. It is a good step, and if students and staff take advantage of this opportunity, perhaps it won’t be the last.

Welcome Exiles

You can come out from under your bomb shelters. The invaders have come, but they've left their invasion behind.

The two Russian exiles who visited campus the past couple of days brought international tension to our doorstep. They're no longer appearing on the nightly news and the cover of Time; they’re right here, before our eyes, with no propagandistic strings attached.

Over a hundred students eagerly attended the exiles’ discussion yesterday. They attracted followers wherever they went. News of their visit spread like sour cream on cold borscht. Even though one might have regarded them as distant celebrities at first, it soon became apparent that these exiles were just as human as you or me.

One of them listens to the Grateful Dead. They both have families and friends. They even drive a car and wear blue jeans.

With all the rhetoric being exchanged between both sides of the nuclear arms struggle, it is heartening to see the people behind the issue. Americans often forget that they are not at war with the people of the Soviet Union, only with their government.

Aside from any judgment about solutions to the arms race, it must be admitted that only human interaction can solve our crisis. It was good to see people share this spirit yesterday. Unfortunately, our governments fail to hold this same feeling.

To the Editor:

The members of PAX would like to thank the college community for the generous support of our recent donut sale. Your donations raised $304 for Elizabeth Cormack. Thank you for supporting this fund-raiser.

Drew Wells and Janet Lindsley

Free Weights

To the Editor:

I and a group of about a dozen other people who are not affiliated with any intercollegiate sport are no longer allowed to use the free weights. On Thursday, April 7, the lock was changed on the door to the room under the stadium and since that time, none of us have been permitted to enter the room, much less to get in a workout.

Athletic Director and Head Football Coach Ed Farrell said that the free weights had originally been bought with money from the football and wrestling team budgets, money from the Wildcat Club, and money that was donated by Mr. Frank Rader. According to Farrell, this means that the free weights belong to the intercollegiate athletic teams, primarily the football and wrestling teams.

It looks as if those of us who are serious athletes, bodybuilders, must suffer because of the carelessness of the coaches and the people Farrell considers the “real” athletes — those who participate in intercollegiate sports. He told me that letting us use the free weights under any circumstances, even the most inconvenient and unrealistic, was “a favor” which “the coaches in general had not wanted to grant.”

In the final analysis, it is the students who make the school in the first place. What do they want me to do, join the wrestling team?

Karrie Buckner ’83

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from our readers. We require that letters be signed and include the author’s address and phone number. All letters must be in our hands by 7 PM Tuesday. We reserve the right to edit letters for length and clarity. The Davidsonian does not in any way endorse the opinions expressed in the letters it prints.