Friday, October 28, 1983 / The Davidsonian 7

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Drama Production Offers Light Entertainment

By Tom Pafford

Take a daughter from a family that is chaotic, quirky, and “unsuccessful,” but relaxed and happy; and marry her to
the vice-president son from a successful, staid, and internally troubled family—you have a myth that still manages to entertain. The
theater department’s production of *You Can't Take It With You* uses this myth and makes no pretensions of presenting any
stirring social comment. The script by George S. Kaufman and Moss Hart seems designed to provide comfortable entertainment, and the
theater department stays faithful to this intention.

Martin Vanderhoff, played by Jeff Mann, is the enlightened patriarch behind the Sycamore family. Thirty-five years before the time of
the play, he quit his 9 to 5 job and decided to relax and enjoy life. He passed on his
laissez-faire attitude to the next generation, and, as the play is set in his house, we see the daily activities
of an unusual family. Penelope Sycamore is a painter who turned playwright when a delivery man mistakenly delivered a typewriter
to the house. Her daughter Essie uses the whole house as a practice barre to support her aspirations to dance
ballet. Father Paul Sycamore experiments with fireworks. Not only are they uncommon by daily indulging their dreams—the family structure is
uncommon. Mr. De Pinna dropped in eight years ago and stayed around to assist with Paul’s experiments. Ed is married
to Essie, but it seems more like he was swallowed into the family than formally taken in. Boris Kolenkhov instructs
Essie in ballet and seems to come and go like a member of the family.

The Kirby family doesn’t receive such close attention, but that is because they aren’t as interesting. They're standard—the play supposes
that we can infer the structure of the Kirby family without seeing them, and the seeing is an important difference
between the families. The Sycamores bring themselves and their dreams out in the open; the Kirbys keep their dreams and
squabbles under the cloak of aristocratic formality and financial success. It takes something from outside the family to uncover their
insecurities.

That something from outside is Alice Sycamore. She is the most conventional member of the family; she works for the
Kirbys; and she falls in love with Tony Kirby, the heir to his father’s business. The conflict of the play
comes from the opposition of two different ideals of the family. For a basic, shallow conflict, it could be laid
out as a diagram. It doesn’t take much characterization to understand that if you bring the two families together you
will have conflict, but no need for resolution. The conflict becomes meaningful and gains depth through the characters of Tony
and Alice. At this level, characterization is supremely important, because the audience must be made to understand that the past
of these characters—grounded in their families—makes them question their present love. The play should develop and resolve the conflict through
Tony and Alice.

Unfortunately, this is the weak point of the play. In one scene, Alice, played by Jean Cooper, and Tony, played
by Forrest Williams, have returned from an evening at the ballet, and in the dim quiet of the Sycamore house
they discuss their love. Alice goes along with the unquestioning love of Tony to a point, then she says it
will never work—their families are too unlike. Tony seems to think that nothing should come in the way of love.
Possibly, Cooper should have been more extreme at this moment, more lamenting in her resignation that their love cannot work.
She doesn’t fully convey the experience of a girl who has always been different from the other kids at school.
And Williams does not convey how his attitude of “all for love” means that he must put aside all considerations
of stability that his family has taught him. Instead, he is consoling, and vague in his resolve. If there is
to be any depth of character in this play, we should see it develop from this scene forward. Instead of
Cooper and Williams finding their identities in their characters’ families, they must find their identities as artist-manipulators of those families.

When the Sycamores meet the Kirbys, the actors give us some terrific comedy. Particularly during a word association game that
Penny Sycamore...Masters, we find that Mrs. Kirby is much more sexually curious and frustrated than Mr. Kirby. Merry mix-ups occur
that evening, but in Act III, the next day, there is, of course, a happy ending. However, the focus shifts
to Mr. Kirby at the end, and we never see much more of Alice and Tony, except to see that
they are happy. Since the play really doesn’t afford any dramatic development of the characters, the stranger their idiosyncrasies are,
the better. Scott Myers as Boris Kolenkov is very strong — literally and figuratively, and Valerie Hinton as Gay Wellington
and Horace Jennings as Mr. DePinna come across well. You Can't Take it With You is entertaining. Just don't go
expecting thought-provoking drama. And it is probably not merely coincidence that the action of the play occurs specifically on Wednesday
and Thursday evenings, right in the middle of the week.

Yugoslavian Troupe Provides Authentic Performance

By MIKE STEPHENS

In Love Auditorium last Monday night, ticket holders to the Davidson Artist Series were treated to a performance that filled
their senses with sound and color and filled the air with the excitement of a European festival. Frula (meaning “flute”),
a Yugoslavian dance troupe, performed what turned out to be both an entertaining and interesting array of traditional folk dances.
Often dance is considered a “high” art form and is not given a chance to be enjoyed by the average
person. Frula shattered this image of dance by providing, within a 2 1/2 hour span, 23 different dances which were
anything but removed from the audience. The dances represented traditions and folklore from the six republics of Yugoslavia: Serbia, Croatia,
Slovenia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia, and Montenegro. The costumes from each republic were colorful and the dances were fast-paced and intricate.

The evening began with a number to introduce the performers and their culture. The dance, titled simply “Yugoslavia,” used 24
dancers and five musicians. Although the company contains 36 persons, only 24 were on stage at any one time. The
opening caught the audience’s attention, which was not to be released until after the encore to the final dance. Even
the intermission was tense with the excitement the performance provided. The musicians who accompanied the troupe, an accordionist, a violinist,
a clarinetist, a guitarist, and a standing bassist, added to the flavor of realism. Twice during the course of the
production, the audience was treated to a rendition of Yugoslavian folk songs while the dancers presumably rested. Their playing was
extremely good and was done entirely without the aid of printed music. The clarinet and violin players were particularly outstanding.

The night progressed with such dances as “The Wood Cutters,” a humorous characterization of a lumberjack competition set in the
Bosnian mountains; “The Competition,” a fierce battle between three sailors and three soldiers to win the affections of a beautiful
girl; and several dances patterned after the lives of the gypsies. The gypsies played a minor role in the production.
Many dances attempted to portray the fierce temper and jealousy of the gypsy men and the hot-bloodedness of the gypsy
women. These dances were filled with color and atmosphere. One particularly exciting dance was the “Biljava.” This dance, which depicted
the washing of wedding garments and linens in preparation for the festival, was performed by a group of twelve women.
Representing the wedding garments were twelve strands of white cloth. Through the entanglement and straightening of the cloth and the
use of colored lights, it seemed as if the stage became filled with beams of light breaking into a kaleidoscope
of colors. The effect was rather like a laser show. Very unusual, it seemed, for a dance.

While modern dance is often highly stylized and symmetrically choreographed, the “Frula” company always kept a sense of earthiness about
themselves. Amid the leaps and cartwheels of the performers, one often heard shouts and whistles which added to the “folkloric”
air. The dancers were a part of what they did and that was readily conveyed to the audience. As to
the authenticity of the performance, one would need to be an expert in Yugoslavian folk dancing to pick up on
any incongruence that might have existed. Certainly, the average Davidson student did not go away from the performance commenting on
the adulteration of Yugoslavia’s culture. “Frula” was fun — and that's what it was supposed to be.
