THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXII, Number 1 The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Friday 4 February 1983

Faculty Drops ICES Forms

Favors a motion to adopt a prose evaluation form

By DAVID RESNIK ’85 and JEFFREY MANN ‘84

The Faculty approved a Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) proposal to drop the Illinois Course Evaluation System (ICES) forms from student
course evaluations by a vote of 47-24 during its meeting Tuesday.

The Faculty also voted in favor of a motion to adopt a prose evaluation form.

“The reduction of such a sensitive and complex matter as instruction and the dynamic of teaching to numerical scoring seemed
essentially wrong,” said Religion Professor and PAC Chairman Alexander McKelway.

Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T.C. Price Zimmermann does not welcome the change, however. “It
will make faculty evaluation much more difficult, I’m sorry to see the present instrument discarded,” he said. “The new form
will reduce student input in the faculty evaluation process.”

SGA Vice President Boe Young ’83 feels that dropping the form “won’t create any major problems as far as the
students are concerned because they will still have input into faculty evaluations.”

SGA President Tim Johnston could not attend the faculty meeting, according to Young, because he had a “job interview that
was rescheduled at the last minute.”

McKelway said the PAC believes the ICES forms were not “compatible with what was being measured.” He says that the
global questions, the three at the beginning of the form “measure a sense of student approval but it tells you
nothing.”

In order to competently evaluate a professor, according to McKelway, one must know the “reasons for the judgement” not just
“the judgement itself.”

He feels that an evaluation carries more meaning “when a student expresses himself” instead of blankly accepting “pre-fabricated answers.”

McKelway also explained that the ICES forms are statistically inaccurate when applied to a course with less than thirty students.
The results produce a curve that is skewed toward higher ratings. Most Davidson students rate their teachers “fairly highly,” says
McKelway, but one student in opposition “moves the curve down drastically.”

Zimmermann and the PAC recommended the ICES forms in September, 1979, but the faculty rejected it. Student evaluation forms were
phased out fall term 1975.

After the faculty rejected the forms, the SGA instituted their own evaluation system for professors who chose to participate. “We
are weary of the procrastination on this issue,” said then-SGA President John Jackson. The faculty adopted the ICES forms a
month later.

“The virtue of the ICES forms is that it recorded views of not just students who specifically had something to
say, but provided a benchmark of all student opinion,” Zimmermann said. “It provides a regular sampling term in and term
out.”

Zimmermann also said “many students will fear that anonymity will be lost,” since professors may recognize students’ handwriting. He was
also concerned that the “Dean [of Academic Affairs] will be submerged in 9000 pieces of paper to read.” He did
not yet know how he would evaluate the forms. McKelway estimates that if every student wrote two hundred words, it
would take 35 hours to read the forms.

The ICES forms consist of three standard or “global” questions which ask the student to rate the course, the content,
and the instructor on a six-point scale. The professor can choose 23 questions from a master list of 623 questions.
The back of the form had space for prose comments which only the professor saw.

The new prose form has three questions: one asking for “a frank appraisal of the effort invested in [the course],”
a second asking “what elements of the course and instructor did you find most helpful,” and a third seeking suggestions
to improve the course.

Students will be asked to sign the forms, but that part of the form will be removed before it is
returned to the professor.

Psychology Professor John Kelton agrees with Zimmermann: “For purposes of evaluation, questions such as the global items are more appropriate
than the prose form.”

He believes “there are too many opportunities for misuse of the prose statements” because “the Dean will have to select
a few” evaluations out of thousands of essays.

SGA Receives Complaints of ‘Discouragements’

By JEFF HOLLAND ’84

The SGA has reported that they have received complaints from freshmen concerning the self-selection system, including reports of oral discouragements
and other forms of discouragements from fraternities and eating houses, according to a letter sent by the SGA to the
Patterson Court Council, the Rush Chairmen of all the court houses, and Dean of Students Will Terry. Freshman class President
Allan Mast and the Patterson Court Council (PCC) reported similar problems.

The letter stated that there had been “flagrant abuses of the self-selective system... in recent weeks.” The letter went on
to say, “We do not condone these unnecessary actions which hurt and demean our fellow students” and “it is our
hope that no further incidents of oral discouragements will occur during the remainder of this year’s eating house selection process.”

SGA President Tim Johnston estimates that between 20 and 30 people have come to either him or Mast with complaints,
but some of the people were speaking for friends so there may have actually been fewer incidents than that. Mike
Mason of the PCC agrees. He said that he knows of 15 suspected violators, but he said he felt some
of them were not valid.

Mast said that some of the people who came to him did not have any complaints of specific discouragements, but
simply did not fully understand the system.

Several committees are looking into these problems and possible solutions. Freshman Advisors Mike Mason and

(Continued on page 15)
