12 Friday, April 29, 1983 / The Davidsonian

From the Locker Room:

Southern Conference Tennis Championships

By STEVE SOUD

It’s billed as “the best free tennis you'll ever see,” and it just may be. It’s got Davis Cup players,
Davidson players, and a host of others. It’s the Southern Conference Tennis Championships, and this afternoon and tomorrow it'll be
under your very nose.

Back over yonder behind the gym sits one of the best tennis complexes in the nation. It boasts a total
of 17 courts, twelve clay, the rest laykold. It’s a beautiful layout, nestled among the pine trees and blooming dogwoods.
The 500-seat stadium isn’t the world’s fanciest, but it is cozy and sociable, and it affords everyone an excellent view.
Such is the site of the best free tennis you'll ever see.

I suppose I ought to justify that statement. To begin with, UT-Chattanooga is vying for an unprecedented sixth straight SC
crown. During the regular season, Davidson (a 7-2 loss) and Furman (a 6-3 loss) were the only schools in the
conference to win points from the Mocs. Their numbers one, three, and six players are members of Zimbabwe's Davis Cup
team. One of them, a tall, dark-skinned, dark-haired, quiet tennis powerhouse, Orlando Lourenco, made the quarterfinals of the junior Wimbledon
tournament. Consequently, the Mocs got the number one seed in every bracket.

Thus, teams figuring their chances in the tournament had good reason to feel pessimistic. But a lot of that changed
yesterday when a Citadel player knocked off one of the Moccasins’ key players. “That has opened the tournament up,” explains
Davidson Coach Jeff Frank. “It puts a lot of emphasis on doubles.” As it stood yesterday, Furman was the surprise
leader, a perfect 9-for-9 with 45 points. Davidson and UT-C, with 41 points apiece, are tied and yipping at the
heels of the Paladins.

Davidson itself has a prestigious history in the tournament. From 1965-1973 the Wildcats won seven Southern Conference championships, including four
consecutive titles from 1965-68. Frank has twice been named SC Coach of the Year, and this summer will coach in
his third USTA Junior Team in the Italian Open Championship. The Wildcats finished the season 14-9, and though most of
the singles players are seeded fourth, freshman Craig Hall is seeded second in his bracket. One of the doubles teams
is seeded second, another third.

I'm not the world’s greatest tennis fan, but from what I've seen this is excellent tennis full of excitement, action,
overhead smashes, aces, passing shots, and even a few laughs. Somewhere in an old, forgotten draft of “Hamlet,” Shakespeare included
in Polonius’ Advice to Laertes this statement: This above all — it doesn’t matter whether you use a Prince or
a Wilson, but never pass up good tennis that’s free. Heed it.

NOTE: A Note that’s worth the noting

Much Ado About Nothing

Lingle Chapel,
May 6 at 7:00 pm
May 8 at 2:00 pm

= LOOKING FOR EXTRA EARNINGS? =
Welcome Wagon will train you for an earning opportunity as campus Welcome Representative. Call or write about our May training
class. Represent local businesses, greet incoming students at DC during registration. Car a must; full and part-time openings.
Call 563-2388, or send name and telephone number to 5913 Charing Place, Charlotte, Charlotte 28211
CAMPUS WELCOME—EOE

ROTC

Gateway to a great way of life.

321 Griffith Street
Davidson, NC

Take-out Available

892-3095
