Video Vassal Strikes Again; Video Critique, Part II
By MATT MORRIS ’86

Welcome ye to the Video Vassalage—that addicting, welfare-inducing sector of our society where a junkie lives always wondering where his next quarter will come from. This edition of the Video Warrior looks at more games on the Davidson Campus plus an ‘inside story’ on some great (and not so great) new games in and around the area.

Galaga — Located in Sentelle Hall, Galaga has been described by sorcerers as a “new, improved, and phallic” game. Galaga lives up to its reputation. The formula for creating a game like Galaga goes like this: take a classic old video game (in this case Space Invaders), imbibe it with a couple of new, treacherous twists (periodical offensive—in more ways than one—attacks), some apocalyptic sounds (atomic bomb-like “KaBooms!”), and wonderful graphics (atomic bomb-like explosions). What hath thee? A mindless doppelganger of a better game, but one with resurrected strength. Yes, Bacchus follower, Galaga lives and charges are with fear, verily.

Joust — On the second floor of Belk something mysterious is happening: freshman Jay Braun and Jimmy Yike are knights in shining armor perched atop flying buzzards stabbing other nefarious fowl for their very lives. Impossible you say? Digest your tongue, that he's a video addict and tells all beginners, “When you are trying to kill the ‘unbeatable’ pterodactyl, aim for his mouth with your sword.” Truly Yike is one of those rare video scions who is worth a shining quarter to watch.

Burger Time — Now the Video Warrior decrees a pilgrimage to the Eastland Mall where a video arcade awaits him. There he spies a new game entitled, innocently enough, “Burger Time.” Placing a quarter in the slot, the Video Warrior soon finds that “Burger Time” is a redoubtable game. The just warrior’s goal is to build a hamburger on a series of steps (hence, “Burger Time,” get it?) before several foreboding hot dogs make ogre patties out of—uh, make trouble. Your squire is Charlie the Baker, a clever little man with a limited supply of pepper which may be used to stave off the evil wieners. The supply can be rejuvenated but it quickly becomes oppressive. But ah, conservation is the thing. Unfortunately, Burger Time is a mere shade of Pac-Man and not nearly as elegant. Sorry Charlie.

Even God plays an important role in Joust, for Bally/Midway has added to its already gallant stable of video games, including Defender and Robotron. Joust is a superb Prince Valiant-like game that is in a class all by itself. The graphics are suitably eerie, complete with outer space background and a really wicked moat. Even God plays an important role in Joust. 

163,000 Pro Jay Braun says he started playing Joust, “when they took the Galaga machine out,” and it’s obvious—he’s a seasoned expert. Jimmy Yike, the top-scorer of the game (208,000) isn't afraid to admit it. Prithee, Popeye is a hectic and chaste game... Raise the Flag!

Popeye — Ok, even the Video Warrior admits that he cast a visored eye upon the reputation of a game named after that spinach-chomping champion, but forsooth! Popeye turns out to be an ingenious game, the best of the new perils. The player becomes he-man Popeye (sorry Ms. Steinheim), and the graphics are as wondrous as all the old Popeye movies from the ’30s and the ’40s. Olive Oyl drops hearts to Popeye from a high tower, and our hero must catch all of these valentines while avoiding the omnipresent Bluto. Of course, if that...Villain gets too close, Popeye merely pops some spinach (one can per screen), and, for a limited time, becomes stronger than Bluto. A wretched sea hag occasionally materializes to hurl lethal bottles at Popeye, and he must fend them off. Prithee, Popeye is a hectic and chaste game, for the only character missing from the cartoon is Swee’ Pea, Olive Oyl’s presumably illegitimate child. Raise the flag! So there you have it: the old, the new, and most of all, the fun video games beeping, booming, and exploding all over Davidson and Charlotte. The Video Warrior now takes his place in Video Valhalla but leaves all his followers with a word of advice, “Don’t put a $5 bill in a change machine; you'll still get four quarters.”

Continued from p. 11

"Joyed myself very much while working on it.” But, as McManus says, “Oxford was a fabulous, civilizing experience, quite apart from any specific things you might learn. It has to do with a world outlook and an attitude toward people and learning...”

Below is a brief look at how Davidson’s other Rhodes Scholars have gone on to distinguish themselves in many fields of service.

— W. Plumer Mills ’03, Davidson’s first recipient of a Rhodes, studied theology at Oxford and then received his B.D. from Columbia Theological Seminary. He then became a medical missionary in China for almost four decades. During World War II he was twice decorated by the Chinese government for his famine and war relief work.

— Ben R. Lacy ’06 is the retired president of Union Theological Seminary.

— Shelby T. McCloy ’18 was a professor of history at the University of Kentucky before his death in 1973.

— J. McDowell Richards ’22 is the President Emeritus of Columbia Theological Seminary.

— Robert F. Davidson ’23, brother of Dr. Chalmers Davidson, has been Dean Emeritus of St. Andrews Presbyterian College since 1971.

— Dean Rusk ’31 is currently a professor of international law at the University of Georgia. His long and very distinguished career in national government included the position of the United States Secretary of State from 1961 to 1969.

— Charles T. Davis ’50 is professor of history at Tulane University in New Orleans.

— Joseph J. Murray Jr. ’51 is Samuel Miller Professor of Biology at the University of Virginia and co-director of the Mountain Lake Biological Station in southwest Virginia.

— Hugh Cannon ’53 is a lawyer and automobile dealer in Charleston, S.C. His special fields include corporate work, representation of banks in administrative and judicial matters, and parliamentary procedure.

— Fred G. Myers ’54 is adjunct professor of English at Baruch College, City University of New York, and vice president of the International Conference Group, a management/meeting/PR consulting firm.

— Henry Shue ’61 is a Senior Research Associate at the Center for Philosophy and Public Policy, University of Maryland at College Park. His recent book is “Basic Rights: A Philosophical Perspective on Some Foreign Policy Choices.”

— William M. Clark, M.D. ’66 is a member of Mecklenburg X-Ray Associates at Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte.

— Randel E. Phillips ’69, at last word, was attending Harvard Law School and a member of the board of editors of the Harvard Law Review.

— Daniel G. Clodfelter ’72 is in private practice with Moore and Van Allen law firm in Charlotte, having received his J.D. at Yale University in 1977.

— Patrick M. “Bo” Baskin ’77 is currently enrolled in the Yale School of Organization and Management.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 January 1983