THE DAVIDSONIAN  
Volume LXIII, Number 10  
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036  
Friday, December 7, 1983  

Faculty Rejects Semester System  
By DAVID McGEE and DAN VOORHIS  

A year of uncertainty ended yesterday as faculty members rejected the semester system indefinitely by a 68-37-1 vote. Davidson will remain with an unaltered trimester system. The motion, introduced by art professor Herb Jackson, sought to “remain on the three-course system and retain the present requirement for graduation.” It passed quickly with only Jackson and SGA President Hunter Monroe speaking on the motion.  

“I’m glad we’re through,” psychology professor John Kelton said. “I’m just tired of it.” The issue has been a lively one since the faculty overwhelmingly approved it on October 19, 1982. Many felt that the subsequent study and comparison of trimesters and semesters, including the issue of credit hours, was healthy.  

“It was not a waste of time,” Interim President Frontis Johnston said. “It is important to debate these things, to debate what is best for the College.” Kelton agreed that the year of study has been good because it forced the College not to take either system for granted.  

“Wasted Time”  

Monroe saw the debate differently. He agreed that semesters “made us do some basic thinking about our educational policy, which is always constructive. But that reason alone wouldn’t justify [the debate]. It was wasted time, I have no doubts about that,” he said.  

The dramatic reversal in faculty opinion between yesterday’s vote and the 1982 vote which approved semesters raises questions of what caused the change in attitude. A major factor involved the modifications made on the original proposal. “I am for semesters,” philosophy professor Earl MacCormac said, “but I was against the semester proposal as it  

First Union Bank Merges With Piedmont Bank  
By DUNCAN FRASER  

Under the terms of a merger agreement reached last May, First Union Bank of Charlotte will acquire Piedmont Bank before the end of the year. According to Marketing Director Janet Simms, “all changes have been designed to maximize customer convenience.” Students who bank at Piedmont will notice little more than a name change when they return from Christmas break. Piedmont checks will continue to be honored, although “First Union” and a new account number will be printed on all new checks. Students who participate in “Wildcat checking” will also be unaffected as First Union plans to continue  

Inside This Week  
‘CIA Agent: John Stockwell blasted the CIA in a 900 Room talk. Page 3  
‘Elections: Candidates for the winter elections speak out. Pages 4 and 5  
‘Let’s Active: A visit with an up-and-coming band. Afoot on page 6  
‘Basketball: The Young ‘Cats are previewed in a four-page special. Pages 7-10  
‘Kernels of Truth: Reality of Jesus revealed. Opinions section  

that program. The personnel at all Piedmont banks will remain unaffected, unless individuals request a transfer to another branch of First Union. Once the merger is complete, First Union plans to install Automatic Teller Machines (ATMs) in Cornelius and Mooresville, although a decision on an ATM in Davidson has not been reached. Finally, after the merger, Davidson students will be able to bank at First Union branches throughout North Carolina.  

The merger agreement, which allows for the incorporation of Piedmont into First Union, is the result of increasing competition in the banking industry. First Union’s chairman said last spring in the Charlotte News that the merger “provides us with good, profitable offices in areas, particularly to the north of us, where we're not located.” The agreement also solves Piedmont’s future after John A. Tate Jr., the company’s chairman and major stockholder, retires.The acquisition agreement offers Piedmont stockholders 1.45 shares of First Union stock per share or cash computed on the basis of $51.50 per share. If all Piedmont’s shareholders opted for cash, the acquisition price would be $15.6 million. Piedmont had received similar takeover offers from United Carolina Bankshares of Whiteville and Southern National Corp. of Lumberton. Piedmont settled on First Union at a board meeting on May 20, 1983. The resulting institution will have more than $6.2 billion in assets, making it the third largest bank in North Carolina.

MacCormac questioned the motivations for altering the proposal. He said the defeated proposal sought only structural changes instead of educational improvement. “I think you should change to semesters for educational reasons and work out the structural changes later,” he said. Ideas such as the 14-week semester and the 32-course graduation requirements were dropped to make the proposal retain aspects of the current system. The defeated proposal included two 15-week terms and 36 courses needed for graduation. Many felt that nine classes per year was excessive. “Five courses at a time is crazy,” said philosophy professor Robert Maydole. Political Science professor Thomas Kazee agreed that “the ideal system would have been the initial semester proposal,” although he remained in favor of semesters. The defeat of the credit-hours proposal this fall damaged the semester system’s chances. Many professors, especially in the sciences, felt the semester system valuable as long as it included credit hours. The semester proposal at yesterday's meeting would have put graduation requirements at 120 credit-hours or 36 courses, effectively eliminating any ad-

(Continued on page 3)

Townspeople and students alike turned out for last Saturday’s North Mecklenburg Christmas Parade. With over 140 entries, ranging from Charlotte's Action Twirlettes baton squad to antique cars bearing antique politicians, the parade was great fun to watch.

$2,000 In Merchandise Stolen From Withers Electric

By ROSS HOLT

“They knew their way around,” said Davidson student David Withers of thieves who stole over $2,000 worth of merchandise from his parents’ local business, Withers Electric. The theft occurred early Thursday morning. The intruders gained entry into the Withers building at 202 S. Main St. by pushing in an air conditioner in a window behind the store’s office area, according to Withers. The thieves “took the best of everything we had,” said Johnsie Withers, one of the owners. They apparently knew which items were top-of-the-line models, she said. A videocassette recorder valued at $1,049, a GE television worth $639, and a home entertainment center with a 4-inch color television and AM-FM radio were among the goods taken. Withers gave $2,000 as a general figure, but she said they were not sure they had accounted for everything taken. Mrs. Withers said the thieves also pried open and rifled a file cabinet, apparently looking for money. The cash register is emptied every evening, she said. Intruders broke into the building last month, according to Mrs. Withers. They gained entry the same way, but tried to leave through a back door, setting off the store’s alarm system. Though nothing was taken, the intruders escaped. The window with the air conditioner was not wired to the alarm before the first break-in, said Mrs. Withers. She said they had intended to hook up an alarm to that window, but had not done so by the time of the robbery. Investigating officer T.E. Springs said police have no suspects in the case, though physical evidence is still being processed. Mecklenburg Crime Stoppers will offer a reward for any information in the case.