Human Rights in El Salvador

The State Department has abused the recertification process

By ELIZABETH KISS ’83

El Salvador received a compliment and a prize from the Reagan Administration three weeks ago. The compliment: the State Department certified to Congress that the embattled Central American country has made “progress” in respecting human rights. The prize: $25 million in military aid to help the Salvadoran government continue its 3-year war against its guerilla opposition. Certification is required by law every six months to continue U.S. military support for El Salvador. The Administration is expected to request Congress to increase the amount of support later this year.

Twice before, El Salvador has been “certified.” Twice before, members of Congress, other Western nations, and human rights organizations including the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Oxfam America, and Amnesty International, have condemned the State Department’s report and the certification process. The U.S. has reaffirmed its military commitment to the Salvadoran civil war. The Reagan Administration views this war as a crucial battle between democracy and communism. Many observers see it as a struggle between the traditional, repressive military power structure and a hodge-podge of forces — leftist and centrist — calling for change, with a hapless civilian population caught in the crossfire. Whichever scenario one accepts, El Salvador must not be ignored. About 40,000 Salvadoran civilians have been murdered since 1979. Our tax dollars and military and F.B.I. personnel are fueling the Salvadoran government’s war effort. More importantly, today’s U.S. Latin American policy will determine what kind of hemisphere we and our children will live in.

An examination of U.S. aims and actions in El Salvador yields three sobering conclusions:
1) Ideologically and morally, human rights certification policy is a hoax.
2) Tactically, it is simplistic and counterproductive.
3) Good intentions aside, current U.S. policy perpetuates violence and suffering with no realistic desirable goal in mind.

The hoax of human rights certification is a cruel one. State Department claims of “progress” rested almost entirely on a decline in the number of civilian noncombatant deaths to 200 per month. About 40,000 Salvadoran civilians have been murdered since 1979. Amnesty International investigators found that most of the deaths were linked to government security forces or death squads operating with the military’s tacit approval. Hardest hit is the rural population, which “suffers indiscriminate violence in reported attempts (by the military) to clear zones of all potential support for the opposition.” (A.I. Report 1982)

While independent monitoring organizations also noted a decline in political murders last year, their figures, as in the past, were considerably higher than the State Department’s—450 per month, for example, according to the Salvadoran Roman Catholic church. The real question is whether hundreds of unexplained murders in a country the size of Massachusetts can be called progress. “The murder of 500 people a month by groups formally or informally connected to the government cannot be seen as acceptable,” the ACLU report contended.

Progress has been even more dubious in the other areas specified by the certification law: judicial response to human rights violations, investigations of the murders of 6 Americans, land reform, and military discipline. For 30,000 civilian murders in the last 3 years there were 1,500 trials and 200 convictions, according to the State Department Bulletin. Investigations of the murders in 1980 and 1981 of 4 American churchwomen and 2 agrarian experts appear to be at a standstill. State Department officials persuaded Congress last December to drop a bill it had passed requiring a complete progress report on these investigations from the Salvadoran government. Five national guardsmen accused of murdering the churchwomen still have not been...tried, while charges against an officer allegedly responsible for the agrarian experts’ deaths have been dropped. The three-phase land reform program which President Reagan a year ago labelled “a remarkable success” hardly deserves the title: while Phase I is complete, Phase II has been shelved and Phase III is plagued by lack of support within the Salvadoran National Assembly. Land reform is sorely needed. According to former U.S. Ambassador to El Salvador Robert White, El Salvador has one of the highest percentages of landless people in the world. Phase III, the most significant aspect of the land reform program, allowing sharecroppers and tenant farmers to apply for land ownership, expires March 3. According to last week’s Congressional Quarterly, it will probably not be renewed.

The irony of U.S. human rights policy is its selectiveness. While right-wing El Salvador is cautiously commended for only murdering 200 civilians a month, the leftist Sandinista regime in Nicaragua is portrayed as a pit of dark communist terror. Careful reading of Amnesty International reports on each country reveals that, while the Nicaraguan human rights situation is worsening, torture and abduction are not official policy, as they were under the U.S.-supported Somoza regime the Sandinistas toppled—and as they still are in El Salvador.

Pragmatists may argue that it is naive to expect U.S. human rights policy to have any consistent moral or ideological substance; like all foreign policy, its function is tactical. If it is merely a tactic, what is its purpose? State Department officials appear to view certification as a way to nudge the Salvadoran government toward improving its human rights record. ‘No progress, no guns’—does this use of certification policy work? In isolated instances, perhaps. The New York Times reports that last May, when 4,700 peasants were evicted from farms given them under the land reform program, threats of cutting off aid produced quick (though not decisive) action: about 2,000 were allowed to return to their land. Overall, however, U.S. policy places the accent on guns, not progress.

El Salvador is at war. We have chosen our side, and our primary objective is military victory for our side. When military viability is at stake, we will drop or gloss over human rights considerations, as is obvious from last month’s certification report. Nor is our choice of sides oriented toward reform. By supporting El Salvador militarily, we are supporting the Salvadoran military, the country’s status quo power structure. Human rights violations are part of the status quo in El Salvador. Leonel Gomez, formerly chief advisor to assassinated Salvadoran land reform agency chief Rodolfo Viera, considers American hopes for reform within the Salvadoran military illusory. American advisors are supposed to instruct Salvadoran soldiers to be more humane. Gomez argues that the Salvadoran army is a “vast network of corruption” united by ties of background and schooling which has ruled the country for 50 years. (Foreign Policy, Summer 1981) The Salvadoran military believes in quelling social unrest in brutally direct ways—30,000 peasants slain in a few days in the famous massacre of 1932, 600 in a few hours on the Sumpul River in 1980. There is no evidence that our human rights policy has led to any real and lasting changes in conditions in El Salvador.

The internal inconsistency of a “No progress, no guns” policy points to the tragic weakness of U.S. Salvadoran policy, in general: the absence of any desirable, realistic objective. Perhaps the sole point of consensus among observers of the Salvadoran situation is (continued on page 17)

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 February 1983