The Davidsonian/Friday, September 23, 1983

Script Unchanged In 35-12 Loss To Lafayette
By SCOTT HUIE

The game typified Davidson football of the last couple of years. From week to week, the script is the same.
The Cats are pitted against a clearly superior team. With youthful vigor and enthusiasm, they play competitively for a quarter
or so, stirring a few cheers from the crowd. But then they fall prey to a few costly errors, which
lead to a couple of touchdowns by the opponent. Boom, Davidson is in a hole too deep to escape, and
all the frat guys, clad in button-down shirts and plaid ties, depart to their cocktail parties even before halftime.

Yes, Davidson lost again last Saturday, 35-12 to the Leopards of Lafayette (Pa.). Defensive captain Stone Bynum, agreeing with this
theory of Davidson football, described the loss. "Without a doubt, we were keyed up for this one, and we may
have drained ourselves too soon. They hit us with the big play, and then it was letdown city.”

After holding Lafayette to an impressive 1-2-3-punt on its first possession, quarterback Keith Martin led a Davidson drive down to
the Lafayette 17. But sophomore kicker Bob Carr missed on the field goal attempt. No score yet, but as Bynum
said, “We knew we could play with them after that drive.”

Down by seven at the quarter, Davidson roared back with a textbook 80-yard scoring drive, highlighted by four pass completions
by Martin and some nifty running by backs Carl Tolbert and Mike Cate. But then, the big play, letdown city,
and finally cocktail hour. On the next series, the Lafayette tailback found a hole on the right side and raced
65 yards.

From The Locker Room
Soccer Game No Cakewalk
By STEVE SOUD

Although a lot of people — most of all the Charlotte Observer — didn’t recognize it, Davidson soccer came of
age in last Wednesday’s 3-0 loss to Duke, the top team in the nation. Those of you who had the
misfortune of wandering past the opening sentence of David Scott’s article in the Observer may have gotten the impression that
the Blue Devils came off the field with icing on their feet. (That’s an obscure reference to a cakewalk.)

The Wildcats played admirably. Consider the Appalachian State game of 1980 as an example of my point. At that time
the Mountaineers were ranked 8th in the country, primarily because of a young man named Thompson Usiyan. Usiyan put on
a show, and ASU went on to win 9-1. That was a cakewalk. Incidentally, Usiyan went on to win Rookie
of the Year honors in the NASL the next year.

Duke came here as the No. 1 ranked team in college soccer. Considering the fact that American soccer has improved
greatly over the last three years, one can safely say that No. 1 now is better than No. 1 of
1980. The improvement in Davidson’s score from 1980 against number eight to 1983 against number one is somewhat more than
noticeable.

Now, consider the Clemson-North Carolina game of last week. North Carolina was ranked 4th in the country, and Clemson 8th.
The Tigers traveled to Chapel Hill and crushed the Tar Heels 7-0. That sounds a little bit more like a
cakewalk.

So the moral of this little exercise is that Davidson soccer has improved. It has come of age. Charlie Slagle
has gotten an awful lot of talent out of very little resources. With a recruiting budget that’s pocket change compared
to Duke’s, he has brought in a number of very talented players. Duke has eleven full scholarships to offer; Davidson
none. I understate the fact that the odds were stacked against Davidson.

The game itself was not as lopsided as the score. The first goal came on a penalty kick that goalie
Pat Woodward nearly stopped. The second came on a booming shot that no one really expected. The third came on
a slight defensive lapse in which a player wasn’t double-teamed. It’s not so difficult to imagine a 0-0 game, providing
a few things could have been done differently.

Never did the Wildcats roll over and play dead. They controlled the ball for portions of the game, and although
Davidson never threatened to upset the Blue Devils, it was a decent match. No one got fed to the wolves.
It showed, of course, that Davidson soccer has matured. It wasn’t so long ago that Davidson couldn’t even think about
playing a Top Ten team and hope to win. It is a tribute to a burgeoning program that they gave
Duke a respectable showing. Keep tabs on these guys; I think you’ll find them ex-Citing, fun to watch, and winners.
Semi-stellar performances made Davidson’s loss to Lafayette a bit more bearable. The Leopards racked up three more touchdowns in their
attack, thanks mostly to the accurate passing of Lafayette All-American quarterback Frank Novak, who threw for 216 yards. Davidson could
score but once more, on a dazzling 34-yard touchdown completion to workhorse Jeff “Chuck” McSwain. For the day, McSwain caught
five passes for 62 yards. Said Coach Farrell, “We lost, but it was a great team. They definitely do deserve
their national ranking. For us to have stayed in the game with their talent, we would have had to have
been almost perfect.” Perfect they weren’t, but some semi-stellar performances did occur. Besides McSwain’s achievements, Cate rushed for 51 yards
on 15 carries and one touchdown. Martin appears to be regaining that old trusty passing form as he connected on
14 of 21 strikes for 165 yards and a touchdown. Defensively, D.E. “Wolf” Wright stole the honors with 16 tackles.

Tomorrow the Cats travel to Newberry, South Carolina to tackle the NAIA Newberry Indians, victorious over the Cats in their
last two meetings. Last year, Davidson fell in a heartbreaker 8-7 in spite of dominating the whole game. Newberry features
a run-oriented offense, keyed by fullback Mike Mottey, who has gained 313 yards in two games. As a team, the
Indians are averaging 260 yards per game rushing. Said Farrell, “Newberry has always been tough and aggressive, particularly on defense.”
A cakewalk it won’t be, but look for the Cats to bring home their first win. Huie’s Prediction:

The Best And The Worst. IMAC Preview

It’s time to survey the fall’s IMAC flickerball teams.

Freshman guys’ halls: As usual, freshmen men’s hall teams merit no consideration whatsoever. They seem forever destined to flounder around
at the bottom of the standings, much too worried about their faces clearing up and mixers to really care about
serious flickerball. They don’t really form good teams until sophomore year when all the freshman football players who quit from
the year before join up. Good luck next year. (Aggregate Predictions: 0-however many they play)

Best of the Worst: The Athletic Apathetics. Once again, Rastafarian Steve Soud, deposed IMAC Czar, has thrown together a band
of GDIs and frat members whose fraternities won’t let them play to form this motley band of weekend warriors. With
the addition of superstars Dick Lee and Dan Voorhis, and speedster Charles Wiley, this team has the potential to go
all the way. Where, I won’t say. (Prediction: 3-4)

Worst of the Worst: The Vegetables. This team adds new meaning to the word sorry. Formed and led by Pete
“The Stap” Astapchick, the only man in Davidson history to fail his IMAC PE credit, The Vegetables should keep several
freshman teams from going winless this season. If the Vegetables are able to field a full team, which they were
unable to do last year, they may prove to be the league’s spoiler. (Prediction: 1-5)

Team Profile: Down through the years, women's flickerball has been about as exciting as watching the hands of a clock
go around. The high point of most games seemed to be when the tailback finally held on to the center
snap. However, during the last three years, unbeknownst to most, a female flickerball dynasty has been emerging. Conceived in a
small back room on Fourth Richardson three years ago, the Amazons arrived on the scene with their obscene warm-up chants
and bruising style of play. Their long dedicated hours of practice and fierce competitive drive let nothing stand in the
way of victory. They are undefeated in three years of play. Almost as remarkable as this loss-free stat is the
fact that their self-proclaimed “Virgin Defense” has been scored upon only once in three years. This is quite ironic considering
that. . . OOPS . . . wait a minute. I’m being censored. Anyway, the “Zons” are looking ahead to
another outstanding season. (Prediction: However many they play-0)

Athlete Of The Week

This week’s Athlete of the Week is senior captain of the men’s cross-country team Frank Ivey. Ivey finished first in
Saturday’s season-opening meet at Duke. With a time of 28:12 over the 5.25 mile course, he won by a 15-second
margin over the top finisher from Duke which annually boasts one of the strongest programs in the region. Ivey already
holds the school record in the 800-meter run.
