= Cornelius Friday, October 28, 1983/The Davidsonian

NEWS SUMMARY

Power Fails at Cunningham

The failure of an outside fuse at Cunningham Fine Arts Building almost caused a fire in the building Monday at
approximately 1:30 p.m. Professor Joe Gardner said that the change in current caused by a bad fuse in a fuse
box outside the building burned out the switches on the house lights. The coils of the house lights then overheated.
Nothing was damaged besides the house lights. One night of rehearsal for the fall production "You Can't Take it With
You" was lost, but Gardner said the incident will not delay the show this weekend. The Physical Plant worked overtime
to repair the lighting system, Gardner said.

70-Foot Oak Falls, Destroys Cars

At 11:30 p.m. last Wednesday, a 70-foot tall tree which had rotted at its roots fell and demolished three cars.
The cars were parked in a lot on the corner of Lorimer and Concord roads. Davidson Chief of Police Jack
Warlick said total damages have been set at $23,000. One of the cars was rented by Davidson College, the other
two belonged to Dean of Admissions John Griffith, and Junior Gus Jamison.

The Safe Roads Act of 1983

State government officials will take part in a forum on the Safe Roads Act of 1983 (the new drinking law)
to be held on November 2 at 8 p.m. in the 900 Room, sponsored by the Davidson College Young Democrats.
Panelists will include: State Representative Robert Slaughter (Albemarle County), State Senator Cecil Jenkins (Cabarrus County), and Judge Herman Clark, Secretary
of the Department of Crime Control and Public Safety. The new drinking law has affected many aspects of Davidson, from
fraternity pledging to pitchers in the 900 Room. This forum is one of the first opportunities for students to ask
how and why the law was passed. The forum will address issues such as the legislators’ motivations for passing the
law, the amount of student input in the debate, and the prospects for raising the drinking age to 20.

Philanthropic Society Rare Book Seminar

The Philanthropic Society of Davidson College will host a seminar on rare books Thursday, Nov. 3 and Friday, Nov. 4.
On Thursday, Glen Ruzicka, of the Library of Congress, will make a slide presentation at 4:00 p.m. on bookbinding. At
8:15 p.m., Leona Rostenberg will speak on the influence of publishing on western thought. Friday, at 1:30 p.m. there will
be a tour of Davidson's rare book room followed at 2:30 by a panel discussion on private collecting. The seminar
will conclude with an address by H.G. Jones, curator of the Carolina Collection at the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, on institutional collecting at 4:00 p.m. The lectures and the panel discussion will be held in Phi Hall.

Student Loan Default Rate Decreases

(CPS)—Students are repaying their National Direct Student Loans (NDSLs) at a faster rate than in past years, the U.S. Department
of Education reports. In checking the records of loan repayments at some 3382 colleges, the department found the default rate
on

PERMANENT WAVE 1/2 OFF

NEW HAIR DESIGNERS STUDIO — 237 Catawba Ave.

HAIR CUT & STYLE - $5.00 off (Male & Female) (in rear of the Southern Energy Building)

MON-SAT 10 AM Until

CHILDREN’S HAIRCUT & STYLE No Appointment Necessary $5.00 - Call 883-3129NDSLs—a program President Reagan wanted to abolish in 1981 and
1982 in part because so many students weren’t repaying their loans—fell from 15.4 percent in 1981 to 10.5 percent of
the total amount loaned out by the government under the program. Part of the reason for the decline, however, may
be the new ways of accounting for defaults, says Florence Taylor, the department’s aid collection chief. Colleges, which have been
responsible for collecting past-due loans, can now turn over collections responsibility to the federal government. When they are turned over,
Taylor says, the government no longer counts the loan as in default. Still, “getting students to pay back their loans
is like getting blood from a turnip for some of the schools,” she says. Taylor adds more schools are becoming
more aggressive in chasing down student deadbeats because of the government’s new rule cutting off NDSL funds to schools with
high default rates.

Degrees Worth More Than Better Jobs

(CPS)—College degrees are worth much more than most people think, a new study by two University of Wisconsin economists asserts.
“The actual return on investment is probably 150 percent greater than the standard estimate,” says Robert Haveman, who co-authored the
study of the economic effects of a college education with Wisconsin colleague Barbara Wolfe. By contrast, the Heritage Foundation—a conservative
think tank with ties to the Reagan administration—recently called for the federal government to stop supporting public education because it
costs more than it generates in additional revenues for the American economy. But a recent study by the U.S. Census
Bureau found that college graduates earn about 40 percent more over a lifetime than non-grads. Haveman and Wolfe say degrees
may be worth even more than that when they figure in the additional values of using what people learn in
college in their post-graduate lives.

“Additional education is directly related to better health, the success of [the graduate’s] children in school, and a number of
other benefits that have not traditionally been counted as part of the value of education,” Haveman says. Better health, for
instance, is worth an additional $3,000 a year to college grads, he found. Their kids’ better academic performance is worth
about $2,000. By being smarter consumers, grads save about $100 a year, Haveman and Wolfe contend. They also calculated values
for better family planning, greater involvement in community and charitable causes, and less likelihood of criminal behavior among educated people.
“If people were given an additional year of schooling,” Haveman adds, “they would be willing to pay thousands of dollars
for the non-earnings benefits of that extra year if those benefits were for sale.”

Fiji Halloween Community Party This Monday

The Fiji Halloween Party for Davidson community children on Monday, October 31 will begin at 6:00 at the Fiji house
and end at 8:00. Admission is free. In addition, the Fiji bus will pick children up to take them to
the party at 5:45 from the community center and Lakeside Apartments. It will return them after the party at 8:15.
Featured will be Magic Tricks, Pumpkin Carving, Apple Bobbing, Stories, Juggling, Cartoons, and other games. The Fiji Halloween Party is
in conjunction with the Davidson community center and Community Center Director Mr. Applewhite.

Order in advance—Wine & Beer by the case: Cost plus 10%
Keg beer: Cost plus 10%
Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St.-Davidson, N.C
892-7521
