Questioning the Patriarchy

Sonia Johnson touches on Neanderthals, Epiphanies, and Anita Bryant

By LAURIE NOTO ’83 and ANNE HOCKETT ’83

Sonia Johnson, feminist activist, excommunicated from the Mormon Church for her views on women's rights, and a hunger striker in Illinois for the ERA, spoke Tuesday night as a part of Women's Week. Two members of the Women's Concerns Committee talked with Johnson earlier this week.

Why did you fast? Did you feel it was the only thing you could do?

I didn’t expect that we were going to pass the Equal Rights Amendment. We'd known that for about a year, but I felt there was a lot of consciousness-raising opportunity out there. By this I mean it was important not to let legislators in Illinois vote against justice for women with impunity—not to see the faces of women suffering and not to be faced with their decision. We sat under a banner that said “Women Hunger for Justice” in the rotunda of the state capitol. They had to pass us every day. They had to know what they were doing was condemning 210 million women to second-class citizenship. We wanted women in this country to know that there were at least eight women who believed in their rights and were willing to die for them.

You say that you had an “epiphany” and that it woke you up to the feminist call. Can you elaborate on this turning point?

I understood where women were in this society, despite all the rhetoric. I really knew where we were and where we have been. It was one of the most painful realizations I ever had.

What is your attitude toward religion now?

I became conscious of my questions on religion, which is made by men, for men, which means women are really disenfranchised... and that doesn’t interest me. I am interested in feminist theology because it is really an integral part of women feeling good about themselves. We’re having a religious revolution. What is happening is critical to getting rid of the patriarchy. Organized religion has been one of the real evils in the world (because it furthers the patriarchy).

Do you feel that the ERA is dead?

No... We know, however, because of wonderful senators like yours in North Carolina that chances are it wouldn’t pass the Senate at this point. So what we have to do—what you have to do—is to defeat Jesse Helms and not just defeat him but get in his place somebody who really cares about human rights.

What do you believe Reagan’s stance on women’s issues is?

His rhetoric is wonderful: “Women are just terrific and we’ll do everything we can to help them.” Then he'll flip and say something like, “The cause of unemployment is women in the work force—taking men’s jobs.” Can you believe it? The man is truly Neanderthal! Everything he has done since he came into office has hurt women. Like Hitler, he’s looking for a scapegoat. The powerless are always the scapegoats. It’s always going to be us—and the blacks and the Jews; those who can’t fight back. The situation is really dismal.

Assuming that the ERA is passed, what are some tangible, visible changes that would occur?

One wonders how much effect it could have, and of course it is a little speculative. But certainly, every state law that did not conform to it would be changed in every state. Instantly, bad laws would disappear. This is the first thing we would see. If it’s on the books and in the Constitution, a woman could take her case to court and win. Today she couldn’t even get a lawyer. All over the country people will be afraid to discriminate. Even more specifically, you'll see property rights changing. Property rights for women in this country are abysmal. Marriage laws will be changed. Rape laws will be enforced. Wouldn't that be terrific?

Many intelligent women believe that the ERA entails a female draft. HowWould you respond to this? What people don’t understand is that the rules of war are not dictated by the Constitution. The ERA would have nothing whatever to do with the decision to draft or not to draft; women can be included in the draft without the ERA. 

We’ve heard you say that women need to become more united, that they can be their own worst enemy. What do you think might be a solution?

When I say that I am against the patriarchy [rule of men], women who are against the movement recognize somewhere in their gut that there isn’t a more subversive statement to say. Those women out there are afraid, and I understand that. I think we have to remember that they are sisters, and I don’t have any bad feelings against them. My whole family is “them”!

Just always remember that you don’t ever need all the members of a group to affect change. I don’t think we have to convert them. What I think happens is that life converts them. Some [of these women] interpret what I say as, “I hate men. Every single man is terrible. Every single man is an enemy.” Every time in a patriarchy something positive is said about women, it is interpreted to be anti-male. Because patriarchy means that we (in various ways) despise women. When you start saying, “Women are wonderful, I love women, I'm so glad to be one, I think women are terrific... we've got to rise and do something about this mess the men have made,” it’s taken as anti-male because it’s pro-female.

Learning against all odds to respect and love ourselves and other women; that’s the very basis, the very foundation of the movement.

Do you feel that many women who don’t internalize the women’s movement do so because they have never felt personally discriminated against?

Women who feel this way are becoming fewer and fewer every day. My own conversion was not spurred by any single discriminatory act against me personally. Often something happens in life, slaps them in the face, and they say, “Oh my God! So this is what they were saying!” I mean, Anita Bryant came to. If Anita Bryant came to, anybody can.

What would you say is the most important issue facing the women’s movement today?

I would say the most important thing for women today is learning to love themselves in a society that hates them, demeans them, and despises them. Belittles them. Learning against all odds to respect and love ourselves and other women; that's the very basis, the very foundation of the movement.

Is NOW accomplishing this? Where would you like to see the women’s movement go from here?

Well, NOW’s main aim is to get women into the system and to get a bigger share of what's out there in the system. But the system itself is corrupt and women [run the risk of] becoming it. Women must say it’s not okay to live in a society that’s ageist, sexist, racist, and classist. When you say all we need to do is to get women into the legislature, all you're saying is, “The system’s OK; it just doesn’t have enough women in it.” Also, we get in so slowly that we are co-opted by the system. For example, Margaret Thatcher is more warlike than most men. The oppressed internalize the values of the oppressor more than the oppressor!

What I would like to see is a Martin Luther King come on the scene. The women’s movement is ready for the equivalent. We also have to get unified and brainstorm Utopia. We don’t even know exactly what it is we want. We need a long-term strategy and then say what stands in the way and find out what we can do to be effective.