_ Record reviews

ROXY MUSIC: Avalon (Warner Bros./E.G.):

- Bryan Ferry writes some of the most lush and moving melodies recorded today. Yet he is equally adept with more rhythmic sounds that must propel the listener to dance. And that is the key to the Roxy Music sound for the 80’s — fantastically lush melodies sustained by driving danceable polyrhythms. On “Avalon”, this combination should garner the group the success it’s never found in America.

Roxy Music broke up in 1977, after a “trial separation” that allowed each member to pursue individual projects. They reformed one year later to record “Manifesto”, a good effort that showed, albeit with little flair, that the group had not changed its musical format. Change was soon to come, though. In 1980 the band released “Flesh & Blood”, and left the raw energy of rock behind (emphasis on raw). They infused their material instead with an energy that comes from complex rhythms defined by a precision rather than competing with it. In fact, on some songs the bass line is its own distinct melody which still helps maintain a surging rhythm. Roxy Music’s customarily compelling material became even more pleasant to hear when the album was remixed at New York’s Power Station studios (something which had never been done). Every beat, every note is crisp and clear. “Flesh & Blood” became one of the few rock records that could overwhelm the listener with the beauty of its sound.

“Avalon” is much the same — different only in that it may be a little more seductive. Guitarist Phil Manzanera can deliver a fiery instrumental attack, but here he is lyrical, and occasionally haunting on such cuts as ‘More than This’ and ‘Take a Chance with Me’. Equally moving are the rhapsodic solos by saxophonist Andy Mackay. But the real star (of course) is Bryan Ferry, who wrote seven of the ten tunes here and co-wrote the other three. His keyboard work is governed throughout by a subtle intensity that suggests fantasy and an ethereal sensation, particularly on the title cut. His clear tenor voice is well suited to the material, which Ferry sings in his customary cool, mannered style.

Ferry once failed an audition for King Crimson. Fortunately, he went on to found Roxy Music, which eventually became one of the most influential bands of the 70’s. With the release of “Avalon” and its predecessor “Flesh & Blood”, the group may find itself repeating that act in the 80’s. One may hope.

Jeff Williams

Another Tea Party

THIS IS BOSTON NOT L.A. (Modern Method):

Hard core punk from Jerry’s Kids, the Groinoids, the F.U.’s, Gang Green, Decadence, and the Freeze. This is a compilation of thirty tunes that blew the roof off my mobile home. The unavoidable crap is more than compensated for by the incredible energy level here, and by the specific contributions of the F.U.’s (4 songs), the Freeze (8 songs), and the Proletariat (3 songs). ‘Options’ (Proletariat), ‘Green Beret’ (F.U.’s), ‘Sacrifice Not Suicide’ and ‘It’s Only Alcohol’ (both, the Freeze) are minor classics of modern punk. “Trouble if You Hide” is a classic in any genre. (It’s by the Freeze, and establishes them as the best band on this record.)

If you want to get in on what's happening on the edge of East Coast American rock, get this album. Highly recommended, but not for everyone.

Victor Hawk

THE JIM CARROLL BAND: Dry Dreams (Atco):

This album proves that “Catholic Boy” was no fluke. Jim Carroll is a genius. While there’s nothing here as immediately ear-grabbing as ‘People Who Died’, the entire LP is a stronger effort than was “CB”. No filler, and maybe five excellent songs. ‘Barricades’ is the album’s tour-de-force, and it’s better than ‘City Drops into the Night’ from “CB”. ‘Still Life’, ‘Work Not Play’, ‘Evangeline’, and maybe ‘Dry Dreams’ are the other great tunes.

The band is essentially new with only the rhythm section still intact. It might be argued that “DD” rocks a little less than did “CB”, but if so the music is a little more mature — as is Carroll’s lyricism and voice control (both devastating).

(Carroll’s neo-Dylanesque vocals and pseudo-hardcore stance may be the only factors keeping him from a major breakout in the commercial sector.)

New Dylan is almost commercial

Morehead Medical Center

Licensed OB-GYN Specialist

Worried About Being Pregnant? We Care.

Free Pregnancy Testing Daily (No appointment necessary)

For Answers And Action On:

- Abortion
- Birth Control

1351 Durwood Drive, Charlotte, NC 28204
Hours 8 - 6 Mon. - Fri, 7-3 Sat.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/7 January 1983