Two from the Duchy of Urbino

By JOHN EGLIN ’84

It is Monday evening, and a befuddled fledgling journalist has been dispatched to perform his debut assignment—to cover the lecture
of an eminent art historian, Professor Cecil Clough of the University of Liverpool. Armed with his notebook, his trusty Panasonic
RQ337 compact portable tape recorder, and a profound urge to kick himself for his unselfish voluntarism, our protagonist entered the
cavernous Chambers Gallery and found himself surrounded by the various subspecies of Academia Davidsoniensis: administrators and their wives, professors and
their spouses, students and their books. At the center of it all was the vast blankness of a projector screen
and an artist named Raphael Sanzio.

The Dean of the Faculty now begged for the attention of all present and Dean Zimmermann announced that the speaker
had conducted his studies at Exeter College of Oxford University, where he “acquired a reputation for erudition and good companionship
in the various Oxford pubs.” The hapless author was later able to learn in an inexpertly conducted interview that Professor
Clough’s interest in art was sparked in his family’s considerable library and during frequent visits to Italy owing to his
family’s ownership of a villa in that country. Professor Clough began his lecture, which was enlivened by the eccentricities of
his broad Midlands accent, and proceeded with lucidity despite the necessities of frequent instructions to the projectionist.

The renowned Renaissance artist Raphael Sanzio completed three panel paintings while in the service of his patron, the Duke of
Urbino. Two of these were portions of a hinged diptych capable of being folded. On the left panel was depicted
Saint George, patron of the Order of the Garter, in combat with the dragon commonly associated with him. On the
right, we see the winged Saint Michael about to deliver the coup de grace to a demon. Both of these
panels are currently housed in the Louvre in Paris.

The third panel is part of the collection of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC, where Professor Clough
had recently delivered this very lecture. This panel is another portrayal of Saint George, in which he wears the blue
and gold emblem of the English Order of the Garter above his left calf. The purpose of Professor Clough’s lecture
was to “examine the questions of who commissioned these works, why they were painted, and when.”

These works are associated with the elections of the Duke of Urbino and his nephew to the Order of the
Garter and the French Order of Saint Michael, respectively, and with the adoption by the Duke, Guidobaldo Montefeltro, of the
very nephew, Francesco Maria della Rovere. This Francesco della Rovere was the nephew of Cardinal Giuliano della Rovere, who later
became Pope Julius II. The adoption of Francesco, who became the heir of the reputedly impotent and childless Duke Guidobaldo,
was the result of shrewd political manipulations of Pope Julius. Behind the “Louvre Diptych” lies an interesting tale of international
intrigue.

In 1502, Cesare Borgia, Pope Alexander VI’s infamous illegitimate son, invaded the Duchy of Urbino and seized effectual power over
the Duchy for the Borgia papacy. Francesco della Rovere, the nephew of Alexander’s fiercest rival, was then in residence at
the court of Urbino and was forced to flee. He found refuge at the court of the French king Louis
XII at Lyons, and there was made a knight of the Order of St. Michael. Duke Guidobaldo, who enjoyed the
protection of the Borgias, was perhaps miffed at the idea of his thirteen-year-old nephew receiving such an honor, and offered
his diplomatic services to the English king in exchange for election to the Order of the Garter.

In 1504, Pope Alexander died, and his old rival was elected Pope Julius II. At his accession, Julius was made
to promise that he would not practice the nepotism for which his predecessor was infamous, and swore not to grant
papal territories to bearers of his family name. His cousin Duke Guidobaldo was in the meantime faced with the prospect
not only of papal disfavor, but death without an heir. Bullied by Julius, Guidobaldo adopted Francesco della Rovere as his
heir, thus ensuring the continuity of the Duchy of Urbino upon Guidobaldo's death in 1508. The Pope had cleverly found
a way around the strictures of his oath.

(Cont'd.)

Panel of St. George slaying the dragon

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 January 1983
