The Davidsonian
Friday, March 25, 1983

SPORT

Ruggers Upset Olde Originals
by JOE MCMULLEN

The rugby club played its best as they upset the nationally recognized Charlotte Olde Originals Rugby Football Club 10-4 last
Sunday. The match with the Charlotte Olde Originals was no social outing. Their team is one of the most highly
respected in the U.S. and includes three “Select Side” (All-East Coast) players. This marked the first meeting of Davidson and
the Originals, and the outcome was as much a surprise to the Cats as it was to the Charlotte team.

The match began with one of Chris Klett’s patented “center of gravity” tackles that other teams find so... well, distracting.
In the past, D.C. has had to rely on physical play (e.g. Doug Ammar) to make up for weak skills
(e.g. Nick Tsantes). This was clearly not the case Sunday as backs Hunter Gourley, Charles Jenkins, and Todd Thomson blossomed
under the tutelage of Englishman James Rampton. The unsung stars of the day were the Davidson scrummers who consistently drove
Charlotte off the ball.

Both scores came in the first period as Pat McMaster emerged from a pile in the try zone and Todd
Lambert added another on splendid individual effort, dragging half the Charlotte side. Jim Brueggemann added the point-afters to round out
the 10-4 score.

Tomorrow at 1:30 the DCRC faces the Zealots of Belmont Abbey. In the past, Belmont has been a bitter rival,
so a wild day is in the works. Davidson has romped over Belmont in the last three meetings 22-8, 18-4,
and 16-4. The game will be on the football practice field.

“This is bloody great,” says Gourley. “I love it!”

One of the problems a college rugby club faces is experience. The addition of visiting Rusk Scholars James Rampton and
Tom Henry from London brings a new dimension to Davidson Rugby. Senior soccer and football stars Todd Lambert and Chuck
Lifford add strength and speed.

Baseball Loses Heartbreaker
By BOBBY BARNES

The Wildcat baseball team dropped to 2-7 with a pair of defeats last week. Last Tuesday, the Cats yielded to
a hard-hitting University of Connecticut team, 14-2. U. Conn. pounded out six extra base hits, including two home runs. Ed
Whitesides went the distance in picking up the loss. Freshman Chip Knox led the Wildcats with two hits in twice
as many at bats and drove in the only runs with a second-inning double to left.

A second game against U. Conn. and four subsequent games were cancelled because of rain or wet grounds. The double-header
against Gardner-Webb has been rescheduled for Saturday.

DC Sails
By WILL BERSON

The sailing team opened its spring season with UNC-Chapel Hill, N.C. State, Old Dominion University, and Virginia. In a second
meet they raced Duke University at Christopher Newport College in Hampton, Virginia. Senior Team captain Eric Sanner sailed with junior
Kathleen Huff in the “A” division, and senior Will Berson sailed with freshman sensation Shannon Stanforth in “B” division. The
combination of both divisions determines the final team scores. Davidson finished third with 45 points, behind UNC and ODU with
33 points each.

Unlike many sports, intercollegiate sailing has both fall and spring seasons. Davidson competes in the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association
(SAISA). SAISA is divided into a northern division (Davidson’s division) and a southern division, including the College of Charleston, Clemson,
Georgia, South Carolina, and The Citadel. In each season, both divisions hold three “points” regattas, which constitute the “conference play.”
The top four teams in each division qualify for the championships. In addition, SAISA runs championships for women (which Davidson
hosts), Sloop racing, and singlehanded racing.

Anderson Scott
The rugby team in actionMarch 26. Davidson’s 4-3 loss to Catawba on March 22 proved to be a heartbreaker for
the Wildcats and starting pitcher Bobby Barnes. Eluding first inning troubles, which have plagued the Cats thus far, Barnes set
down 18 of the first 22 Indians to face him—allowing just two hits. In the meantime, Davidson hitters wasted no
time as John Mahoney rocketed a three-run homer in the first inning. The Cats continued to pound out the hits
in the middle innings but were unable to push any runs across. In all, the Cats stranded ten runners. Hanging
on to a 3-0 lead after six innings, the seventh inning foreshadowed the damage to come an inning later: Catawba
combined a pair of hits with a Davidson error to score their first run. In the top of the eighth,
the Catawba shortstop topped a slow infield grounder and was called safe at first. Another hit through the infield brought
up the potential winning run in the form of the cleanup hitter. Catawba centerfielder Bill Patriss lined a three-run homer
to right, and Catawba led 4-3. Davidson threatened in the ninth (even the outs were shots) but came up empty.
Barnes picked up his second loss of the year, going all nine innings. Keith Helfant picked up two hits and
Mahoney picked up two more in addition to his home run in five trips to the plate. Davidson hosts Gardner-Webb
tomorrow; the first game starts at 1:00. Monday, the Cats travel to Chapel Hill in an attempt to avenge a
1-0 setback to the Tarheels last spring.

Women’s Tennis Undefeated Now 7-0
By PATRICIA HAHN

After only a few short weeks since beginning the season, the Women’s Tennis team has a record of 7-0; five
of their victories were shutouts. Coach Caroline Brown has mixed feelings about the way the season is progressing. “I’m obviously
pleased with the performance of the team,” she said, “yet a little disappointed at the opponents not challenging our players.
Matches against Furman are historically close and we look forward to rescheduling our rained-out match.” The major goal for the
team is to build a strong seasonal record in hopes of an invitation to compete in the NCAA Division III
National Championships in California. The team consists of Catherine Smith, Caroline Barclay, Eleanor Knobloch, Adelyn Lutz, Sue Hilton, Joanna Fleming,
Leesa McPhail, Tricia Ives, Meg Short, Jill Sypult, Lolly Johnson, Sarah Patterson, and Patricia Hahn. Reviewing the five freshmen on
the team, Coach Brown notes the immediate contributions from Caroline Barclay at number two singles and Meg Short at number
two doubles. “I didn’t expect to play so high this year because I don’t have any college experience,” Barclay says.
Considering the rest of the team, Coach Brown brought up the tough situation Hilton has faced this year: she must
recover from a complicated foot injury and she’s now trying to work back into the lineup through a series of
challenge matches. Tricia Ives and Joanna Fleming return at number three doubles. Their record last year was 20-5, earning them
the rank of number one in the state and four in the region. Smith, who is “excited about meeting the
challenge of playing number one singles,” and Barclay, who insists that “Nautilus kept us in shape during the winter,” stress
that they represent the team in saying, “We feel very positive towards Coach Brown and her structured practices which keep
us pumping across.” This weekend the team will be traveling to Virginia Commonwealth and William and Mary for matches and
would appreciate some Wildcat support at their next home match—Tuesday, March 29 at 2:00 p.m. against Presbyterian College.
