It Works in Cornelius

Mayor Potts finds few discrimination obstacles

By THURSTON HATCHER ’85

When Nannie Potts leaves her teaching job at South Iredell High School each afternoon, she doesn’t head home. Instead, she
goes to the Cornelius Town Hall to serve in her other job — as mayor.

After teaching government classes for high school students and participating in various “close-up” trips to look at state government, Potts
found herself increasingly interested in local government. Aware also of the black community's need for representation, Potts decided to run
for mayor herself and won the election by a large margin. “I still don’t know how I handled that,” she
says.

Potts says that the town of Cornelius has always been close-knit and did not, therefore, experience the severe problems with
school integration that many cities faced in the sixties and seventies. “It may not have been the best here,” she
admits, but by comparison Cornelius was relatively problem-free. “We have enough whites who really care,” she says.

As a black woman leading a small, Southern town, it seems natural to assume that she might face some extra
hardships. Not so, says Potts. “I’ve had no problems in being a woman or in being black. I think people
are beginning to accept the fact that women will be involved.” When asked about her views on the Equal Rights
Amendment, Potts added that she was in favor of it for those who feel a need for it: “Some women
feel they still need recognition.”

Mayor Potts addresses the problems of Cornelius.

So what kinds of difficulties does the small-town mayor face? “The hardest part,” she says, “is trying to meet the
needs of everyone who wants something done right away. Rome was not built in a day!”

Even with the growth of suburbs and the rebirth of major cities, Potts still believes that there is a place
for the small town. “With the economy and other problems, the small town provides a closer, more caring environment in
which to confront these issues,” she says. “You have more people caring about people.”

Let someone know you love them on Valentine’s Day.

Put a classified ad in The Davidsonian for that special someone.

Cost:
three lines—$2.00
1/12 page—$4.50
1/8 page—$6.00

Call Union Extension 149 before February 8

THE DAVIDSONIAN/28 January 1983

by John Ruppenthal ‘84
