The Davidsonian
Friday, March 25, 1983

A Statement of Faith
Keith Revell

Consider the atheist. He does not believe in God because he has no need or reason to do so. Don’t
twist him psychologically and claim that he substitutes reason or science or politics for God because that is untrue. He
does not understand the universe perfectly, but then he does not need to. An existentialist he is not. He loves
humankind but is not obsessed with humanity. There is nothing that he holds so dearly that it would destroy him
to lose it: he is spiritually self-sufficient. Life is transient and void of any meaning other than the temporal meaning
he gives to it: All that is solid melts into air. He does not delude or blind himself with misconceptions
of his self-worth or power, accepting his fallibility while constantly striving to overcome his limitations. He is not cold or
without compassion, nor is he amoral. Think of him as a realist: thoughtful, optimistic, and with absolutely no need or
desire for God in his life.

Faith confounds me. Nowadays, Christians are so willy-nilly and subjective in their beliefs that the idea of an objective transcendent
reality has all but disappeared. Mish-mash pantheism has replaced the concept of God; and Truth is lost in the search
for something everyone can believe in. Faith, in the religious sense, seems too nebulous a concept to be used as
frequently as it is. To call someone “faithful” is like calling him “good” or “nice”: the terms are so general
that they border on meaninglessness. I contend that only the atheist can be called faithful. That is not to say
that he has faith; rather I submit that he alone has the possibility of attaining true faith because he alone
is free. Freedom is the key to faith as Jesus spoke of it, and no one can have faith except
by free choice. If I hold a gun to your head and command you to have faith in Jesus on
threat of death, few would believe you if you suddenly proclaimed yourself a Christian. Quite to the contrary, the reason
behind your proclamation is all too clear: you are preserving your life, not acting faithfully. Your conversion has nothing to
do with faith. It is a calculated, reasonable decision to protect yourself.

I direct your attention to Dostoevski’s “The Grand Inquisitor.” The Inquisitor’s address centers around the idea of freedom. Christ, he
says, refused to take human freedom, wishing instead for humans to love Him freely. “Thou didst not come down from
the Cross when they shouted to Thee, mocking and reviling Thee, ‘Come down from the Cross and we will believe
Thou art He.’ Thou didst not come down, for again Thou wouldst not enslave man by a miracle, and didst
crave faith given freely, not based on miracle. Thou didst crave free love and not the base raptures of the
slave before the night that has overawed him forever” (p. 34 of the Humanities edition).

Two-Tier System Defended
Hartley Hall and Mike Tantillo

We were somewhat discouraged after reading the opinions article on self-selection in last week's Davidsonian. It contained the familiar rhetoric
espoused by a great number of Davidson students who are neither informed nor involved in the system. Admittedly, the system
does not conform to the description in the College catalogue, nor can it. At the very heart of any self-selection
system is the underlying assumption that a house will welcome with open arms any person that may offhandedly decide to
eat at that particular house. This sounds like a utopian, indeed “unique and [seemingly] painless social structure,” as described in
Holt’s article. However, this simply is not the case.

Due to their strong national tradition, members of national fraternities are expected to make greater contributions to their houses and
to have a greater commitment to fellow members than is expected of members of eating houses. Also, by admitting that
fraternities are selective, Ross has glossed over an obvious pregnant omission: that the national fraternities can be selective. The implication
is that more people want to join fraternities than the fraternities can handle; the demand is greater than the supply;
and the fraternities become a victim of their own success. The fraternities serve the campus as a social outlet to
all and serve the community by way of various service projects. As the more financially stable houses on the Court,
the fraternities are better able to function as a social outlet for the entire campus. As a result, their value
to the community at large, not to mention the individual members (approximately 300 on the Court itself), is undeniable.

Ross seems to imply that a two-tiered system will forever damn the eating houses to some horrid abyss of second-class
citizenry. The eating houses are not “second class” to the fraternity system; they represent a very viable alternative to it.
The eating house system was designed for and still serves those people who prefer not to be stigmatized by being
a “Greek.”

Lastly, the self-selection system is painfully dishonest to the Freshmen. Cases surface every year of Freshmen who believed that they
could wait until the eleventh hour, sign up to eat at a fraternity house, and then be welcomed as a
brother. There are also problems of men who “put all their eggs in one basket,” and the officers...of the fraternity
are not allowed to be open and honest, explaining to them that they had best look around elsewhere. Hence is
derived the oft-touted “passive discouragement.” A bid system is simply more open, honest, and less subject to misinterpretation. Ross is
right; the contradiction between self-selection as presented in the catalogue and self-selection de facto is indeed unacceptable. However, the answer
is not to try to impose upon us a system that has never in practice worked. Instead, the present system,
one which is strong and viable, should be made more honest. The time for a return to the bid system
is now. Hall is a Sophomore economics major and member of Kappa Alpha fraternity from Richmond, Virginia. Mike Tantillo, who
assisted with this article, is a Sophomore economics major from Rocky River, Ohio. He is a member of PAX eating
house.

What value does love have, what value does faith have, if they result from some coercion, or fear or awe...
or need? Check the Biblical accounts of the trial and crucifixion. Jesus will not say that he is the Christ,
show that he is with a miracle, or save himself from certain and slow death. Some will reply, “But Jesus
was a man and could not save himself.” Perhaps this is true; but he had performed miracles before, or God
had through him. It is not a matter of can or cannot, rather will or will not. If Jesus had
done something spectacular and saved himself, the love he would have received would have been worthless. Faith then would be
a matter of respect for power. Jesus did not want love to be given out of fear or awe; he
wanted it to be given freely. Dostoevski’s view of human nature is overly harsh and I think it inconsistent with
that which most of us experience. But it is not unreasonable to assume that if Jesus had changed the Roman
guards into a flock of sheep, no one would have crucified him. But that would have given people a reason
to love him. He wanted them to love him freely, without a reason for it. But Jesus is not here
to perform a miracle or prove to us that he is the Christ. One might think then that we are
free to love him. Again, I say that only the atheist is free. If I ask the question, why should
I have faith in God or Jesus? There should not be an answer. It is a loaded question. Think for
a moment why someone believes in God or has faith in Jesus. If you feel an absence in your life,
a need; if you want fulfillment; if you are lonely or depressed; if you need answers or stability; all of
these are reasons to love God. If you should be faithful, or are afraid of death, or want security for
an afterlife, then you cannot be faithful. Just like the man with the gun to his head, your decision is
calculated and reasonable. I need this, therefore I will do the following: my life is in shambles, I need guidance,
therefore I will love God and have faith in Jesus. By no means is this always so explicit a decision;
a need does not require such celebration. But by virtue of the fact that you need or want or think
you should have faith, you negate your freedom. As long as there is something compelling you to love God, your
freedom of choice is lost. Think of it in this way: if I am lonely, I am free to choose
whether or not I seek out company. But I am not as free as if I were not lonely. My
decision will necessarily be affected by my condition of loneliness; i.e. my freedom is restricted. The atheist alone can be
truly faithful, because he alone can give his love freely. He needs nothing, wants nothing. What is more, he does
not even believe in that in which he puts his faith. To say that he gains anything by his faith
is absurd. There is absolutely no reason for him to love God. And when he does, he alone will be
faithful, for he loves absolutely freely. I needn’t belabor the point. Essentially, only the atheist is free; freedom is requisite
for true faith; only the atheist can have true faith. I think Kierkegaard hints at this in Fear and Trembling
when he speaks of the Paradox of Faith. The atheist is certainly paradoxical when he loves something he knows doesn’t
exist. This means that he is free to make his decision whether or not to love God. Faith still confounds
me. Perhaps Kierkegaard was right. Perhaps God, belief in God, is absurd. One might say that the freedom I speak
of comes after faith, meaning the freedom to sin or not to sin once one commits oneself to Christ. But
this is not consistent with Jesus's behavior as he stood before Pilate, refusing to save himself. The atheist does not
eliminate the possibility of faith in God by not believing in Him; rather, this makes his faith possible. It is
the absurdity and the paradox of his faith that makes it genuine. The need for faith eliminates the possibility of
faith. Only the atheist needs no faith. Only he can be faithful. Faith confounds me. Revell is a Sophomore economics
major from Miami Lakes, FL.
