THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXIII, Number 2
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, September 23, 1983

ATO Members Vote To Close House
Second House In Six Months Will Close
By DAVID RESNIK

The members of ATO eating house decided to close at the end of the fall term by a vote of 17-13 at their house meeting on Wednesday night. According to ATO Treasurer Bill Crone, ATO would need to increase its membership from the current 39 to 48 members in order to operate at normal capacity during the winter term. If ATO had decided to continue at the same level of membership, board bills for the winter term would have exceeded $500, according to Crone. (ATO’s fall term board bill is $410).

ATO considered four options at its Wednesday meeting. The first option was to close the house by Sunday, pay off all the debts, and return the remaining money to the members. The second option was to close at the end of the term. The third option entailed remaining open as a social club but closing eating facilities. The fourth option was to remain open.

Crone believes that ATO will be able to pay off all its debts by the end of the term. The members of ATO have not yet decided what to do with the furniture and remaining house assets, although Crone intends to bring up the possibility of auctioning off the furniture at their next house meeting. Many ATO members are considering eating at other houses, such as Warner Hall, Emanon, and Fannie and Mable. Some of them may eat as independents, while others may eat at the Commons.

New Post Office Provides Town’s Commercial Hub
By WAYNE MAGRUDER

With the foundations laid for the new post office, the town of Davidson’s plans for a new downtown commercial district have finally begun to solidify. Davidson real estate developers adopted a general plan for a downtown commercial district about ten years ago, according to Davidson Mayor Nancy MacCormac. The plan was the town’s response to merchant, post office, and community requests to have a central, vital hub for Davidson. The plan would create a commercial block behind the present downtown shops and would integrate those present shops on Main Street with future development behind them.

The plan includes a pedestrian walkway running between the present shops and future developments which will complete a commercial block between Main Street and Railroad Street. The plan provides for upgrading the backs of the present row shops. The concepts for such a downtown block remained on paper until two years ago when the post office announced its plan to move. The post office is the first building to break ground within the scope of the project. The new post office should be completed by February, 1984.

MacCormac has worked to coordinate the project with those directly or indirectly involved. “The project is a mutual and coordinated effort between the town and the post office with the support of the community to make the downtown a viable commercial center,” MacCormac said. The town and the post office hired the Charlotte firm Dellinger and Lee to make architectural drawings for downtown development. The architects met with downtown property owners and merchants to ensure including all involved.Concerns such as service needs (delivery, parking, waste disposal) and individual desires (some stores want to add to present structures while others want to screen in their rear entrances). MacCormac said that Piedmont Bank is working on possible low-interest loan agreements which would provide present merchants or tenants with funds to upgrade the backs of the present structures. The loans will be discussed in further detail at the Town Board Meeting in mid-October. Davidson College has expressed an interest in how the new area would fit with the scenery of the campus. MacCormac said that F & M would welcome former ATO members. Dining Services Director Carlton Pritchard said that the Commons “could certainly accommodate them.”

Two women, Meagan Bos and Mary Hill, are now living at ATO. Housing Director Bill Bolding said that they will be allowed to continue living at ATO throughout the year.

Dean of Students Will Terry expressed his sorrow over the loss of ATO: By Peggy Pierotti “For ATO as a group, it’s unfortunate. They added diversity, color to the Court. They beat to a different drummer, and that’s good, but it may have affected their closing.” Crone agrees that ATO may have been “the victim of a reputation.” Crone said that people describe other houses as “diverse” but label ATO “weird.” He is disappointed that Davidson students couldn’t “look beyond the stereotypes.” Terry said that the College is still committed to small group dining, and that the business office will be ready and willing to offer advice. Terry maintained, however, that the College is not in the “business of subsidizing houses.” Crone agreed that subsidizing houses would be a poor solution. “Subsidizing leads to controlling. It just wouldn’t be the same,” he said.

ATO President Richard Barber feels it is important that ATO members stay on the Court, instead of opting for the Commons or independent dining. “It would be sad to see the exodus from the Court continue,” he added. Barber expressed his devotion to Patterson Court: “I feel that Patterson Court is very important to Davidson. That’s why I took this job [of ATO President]. We're the second house to fold, but others are not far behind. For the Court to survive, it needs support.”

(Continued on page 4)

Architect's rendering of the new post office now under construction. MacCormac said, “The complexion of the campus is part of the future overall atmosphere of the downtown block and walkway.” The Community Appearance Committee, chaired by Irene Blackwell, is working to ensure a smooth integration of campus and town. MacCormac said that one option is to “explore the possibility of designating the downtown area a historical site,” thus ensuring the desirable atmosphere.

Peregrine House To Move

The Peregrine House will be moving to a new location in two months, according to owners Bob and Betty Johnson. Since the new downtown development’s walkway will run through part of their present structure, the Johnsons will be (Continued on page 4)

Inside This Week

Red Grooms: Gallery exhibition is a complex, ironic commentary on today’s culture. Page 6

Soccer: Davidson gets on the winning track with a win over WCU. Page 8

Thefts: Davidson enters the real world with the recent rash of campus thefts. Page 2

IMAC’s Back: Flickerball preview. Page 9