Transition President Spencer's 15 years at Davidson

Do you think Davidson’s admission policies will ever become sex-blind?

I think they would if the quality of the College or the student body were threatened by a policy which is not sex-blind.

What do you see in the future for self-selection? Do you think the system has been successful? Adequate?

I think it has been successful in one basic sense. Students today, of course, don’t have much of a way of judging what it was like before. But before the late sixties, when the Davidson fraternity system was probably at its height, about 85 percent of the freshman class pledged fraternities, about 15 percent did not pledge, and they looked upon themselves in many instances as what they called “social illiterates.” And we had a very divided campus in that respect. It always seemed to me, and I saw this as a student, and I saw this when I was dean of students, it always seemed to me that it didn’t make a great deal of sense to go through a very rigid selection process in the admissions office, bring in those who were considered by the students to be fine students for our student body, and then say to 15 percent of them “you’re not acceptable,” particularly in a person’s freshman year, when students are very conscious of making it through and trying to stay on top of things. It’s a very serious reflection when that kind of system operates. Now you will get the argument from a lot of people who enjoyed the fraternity system, as I did, that, well, this is the way the world is and people have got to get used to being rejected, in competition with others, etc. It’s a valid argument in a way, but it’s interesting that I never heard anybody who didn’t get a bid advance that argument. So a lot of people were hurt by the old system. Consequently, when we went to the new system, and I might say that that was partly because the fraternity system just fell apart here, in the late sixties, partly because the fraternities were not flexible enough to admit minority students, and one of the rocks on which the fraternity system here foundered, was the unwillingness of the nationals to take black students. But when it did change, at least we got a system in which that kind of formal exclusion was not practiced, and in that sense, I think it was successful. It does bother me that we’ve tended to go back toward exclusivism, in such a way that I think students can still feel the kind of rejection that they did earlier, though not formally, and that’s a gain. But I would like to think that the self-selection system would work in principle. I’m not sure that we’re at that point right now.

If self-selection does not work in practice, what can we do to improve it?

I’m not saying that it isn’t necessarily working, I’m not sure it’s working to its maximum potential. I think there are flaws in it; nothing is perfect, and it may be that there is no way to have a completely perfect system. But in terms of doing something about it, I think that it has to be looked at by students themselves, and that students themselves have to be behind any changes that are made. I don’t like to think of changes being imposed necessarily from above.

So, if the students decided to change the self-selection system, you would be in favor of it?

I would be in favor of it if it did not go in the direction of a formal exclusion system. Let me say one more thing about this. I was a fraternity man myself, I am not anti-fraternity. At a big place, it makes little difference as to whether a person belongs to a fraternity or not. But when you have a situation, as we did, where 85 percent do and 15 percent do not, it’s pretty tough for the outs.

Do you think Davidson should increase its enrollment or leave it the same?

Well, as you know, we have built our general facilities, such as the library, commons, for an eventual total of 1600. I would think it would be unwise to increase to that figure at a time when the demographic trends are downward for 18-year-olds, because I’m more concerned about quality than quantity.Davidson should increase its minority recruitment? — Well, we recruit very hard for minorities, and when you say... Maybe I could rephrase it. Would you like to see more minorities at Davidson? Yes, I would. What about Northeastern and non-regional recruitment? I’m not as concerned about geographical representation, though I think we’ve gotten to a pretty good point. In Davidson’s history, there has often been an argument about whether we should be a regional college or a national college. It seems to me that those two aren’t mutually exclusive. Our inner circle is the state of North Carolina, our second circle is the region, and our third circle is national. Would you like to see Davidson continue its commitment to international studies? Very definitely. I think we ought to increase that commitment. One of the disappointments to me is that we haven’t moved as fast or as far in that area. Do you think Davidson will benefit from the switch back to a semester system? Both systems have their advantages and disadvantages. My personal preference is for the semester system. Do you think there is enough student and faculty input into trustee decisions? Should there be more? If you look at this in terms of the history of the College, I think you will find that students now have a lot more to say. Decisions are not being made behind our backs, and if there is a strong opinion about some issue, the trustees are willing to listen. I don’t mean to badger you, but the faculty and students have come out strongly in favor of equal access admissions, and the trustees haven’t done anything. I’m not sure the students are for it. There hasn’t been any definitive, accurate student poll yet. Okay. But, if the faculty and students both came out strongly in favor of equal access admissions, do you think the trustees would and should take it into consideration? I think they would and should take it into consideration.

The faculty shared his objections and rejected the proposal in May. By May 1970, self-scheduled exams were fairly regular. Dr. Spencer stood strongly in favor of them, despite some faculty opposition.

1970-71
A radical change, the on-campus sale of beer, was a matter of debate towards the end of 1971. In October, President Spencer was quoted as saying, “I do not consider it necessary or desirable for the college to sell alcoholic beverages.” Despite his objections, the sale of beer was approved. In December 1971, after the decision, Spencer had a change of heart. “I think the sale of beer on campus is a long-overdue reform.” This new position had the disapproval of C. Shaw Smith but the support of the students and Trustees.

1971-73
The controversy over beer was not the major issue of the 1971-72 school year. On April 3, 1972, the Educational Policy Committee approved coeducation. Within the next month, it received faculty and trustee approval. Dr. Spencer viewed the transformation as “a step in the right direction.”

1974
The arrival of more than a negligible number of women at Davidson in September 1974 coincided with the opening of the E.H. Little Library, the first WDAV broadcast, and the institution of “coffee and cokes.” Unfortunately, along with these beginnings were troubled financial times. Vice President for Financial Affairs C. David Cornell, who had recently resigned, held a less than optimistic view: “You look at '76 and beyond and it’s a great big question mark.” Dr. Spencer managed to incur the fury of many students when, in November 1974, he censored an issue of Quips and Cranks. With trustee support, he banned a picture of male genitalia and two instances of profanity. After the proper “corrections” were made, the yearbook was distributed. During this same school year, controversy was brewing over the question of requiring “Christian commitment” for tenure. No action was taken by Spencer or the trustees, but the controversy did indicate strong sentiment in both camps.

A $1.1 million grant for the improvement of Martin Chemistry Building closed out a year marked by the interesting combination of financial and ethical problems and structural improvements. A relatively uneventful year followed, marked mainly by the opening of the Taverne Crow, the 900 Room. Preyer Infirmary was renovated that year and Rusk House opened.

1975-77
Perhaps the 1975-76 academic year was the lull before the storm. In April 1977, one of the most controversial events of Spencer’s 15 years occurred. Dr. Ronald Lindon had been chosen unanimously (Continued on page 15).