8 Friday, October 28, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Scot Myers: A Hero In The Marvel Universe
By IDA PHILLIPS

Armed with only a black pen, accompanied by his white rat Diva, and disguised as a senior at Davidson, our hero hits the drawing board. Furiously scratching out muscle-clad mutants and fantastic figured females, he struggles to restore order to the Marvel Comics and establish himself as an artist. But we have faith in our hero, for he is none other than Davidson’s own Scot Myers.

To tell our hero’s story correctly, we must begin with those early days before he discovered his unusual powers. Beginning at the age of four, Scot worked in his mother’s foreign car parts shop, assembling rear axle repair kits. No wonder Scot turned to comic books. “I was paid one dollar for this job. And one dollar was just enough to buy four comic books. So on my lunch break, I went to the 7-11 around the corner and bought two Archies, one Richie Rich, and one Hot Stuff. But then at some point, I read a Marvel Comic Book and was just amazed. I didn’t feel like a little kid anymore.” Like Spiderman’s fateful bite, that first Marvel sealed Scot's destiny.

Scot did not realize his powers until he was a sophomore in high school, when he and a friend created a superhero named Sentinel. “Later on I just sat down at my drawing board, drew what I thought Sentinel should look like, and went ‘Wow!’” Scot had been drawing since his auto parts days and Marvel Comics realized his talent. After Scot submitted the character to the publication, the editor-in-chief gave him a summer job as an apprentice artist. For a few months, Scot worked in that metropolis of superheroes, New York City. Although he was only paid $36 a week for train fare, Scot’s drawing skills improved immensely. “I looked over everyone’s shoulders and learned the ins and outs of the business. I definitely came away twice as good an artist because all I did that summer was draw bodies.”

So what became of Scot the artist when he assumed the guise of Scot the student? Currently, Sentinel is still on the shelf. Because every character in Marvel Comics must fit into the scheme of the Marvel universe, Sentinel’s appearance has been postponed several times. In hopes of speeding up Sentinel’s debut, Scot is working on a “Silver Surfer” mini-series. Silver Surfer is the most powerful figure in the Marvel world and accordingly a popular character. Scot hopes that Marvel will publish the mini-series by next summer and then begin trying to fit Sentinel into the Marvel population. “I know them and I know my work and that makes me confident that they’ll use it.”

Even Superman splits time between a red cape and Clark Kent’s horn rims — Scot is not going to wield a pen forever. Instead, he wants to direct movies and “always work for Marvel in my spare time.” After graduation, Scot is going to Hollywood to work for TV producer Glenn Larson, who has produced shows as Battlestar Galactica and Manimal. If Larson is willing, Scot hopes he will fund his first big movie, which will be about the X-Men.

College Bowl Hotshots Eye Green Room Berth
By TIM WAPLES

For three weeks now, you've heard “the Green Room” pontificate concerning the College Bowl intramural tournament. You've probably wondered, “Who are these guys?” with no more than a vague notion that whoever it is must be in charge of the tournament. Well, you guessed right. The Green Room of the Union is the scene of the varsity College Bowl team’s daily practices. The team members are not much different from this year’s intramural hotshots: all played in intramurals before trying out or being picked for the varsity team. The big change comes in the Green Room. Daily exposure to the best coaching staff in the country and just plain practice has given the team an opportunity to develop a little more speed and a good bit more knowledge than before joining the team.

For those of you who dream of good interrupts and 30-20-10 bonuses, here’s your chance to meet the team: Head Coach Hansford “Bear”, et al. Epes. The man of a thousand nicknames, Dr. Epes is College Bowl at Davidson. Twenty-three years of...experience guide those crazy Cats from daily practice to tournament travel. Dr. Epes spends countless hours compiling questions for the team and for intramurals. Even more time is spent altering transcripts, negotiating with teachers, and outmaneuvering the NCAA to keep the Cats academically eligible and behind the buzzer. Probably only Mrs. Archie is a more necessary component of Davidson College than “the man with the questions,” Dr. Epes.

Coach Robert “Uncle Hurricane,” “Renaissance Robert” Manning
Known by Loyd Dillon as “the other College Bowl coach,” Dr. Manning assumes the role of jovial adversary on the other side of the Green Room battlefield. Dr. Manning, Mr. Lloyd, and any unsuspecting visitors to the Green Room challenge the team daily to whatever fare is offered. An aspiring biologist and leading campus astrologer, Dr. Manning has yet to stumble on a baseball question. As far as the team is concerned, the Hurricane is the best third base coach since Preston Gomez.

Coach Charles “Mister” Lloyd
Received College Bowl along with the gift of Fire from Prometheus. Authority on the writings of Thoreau and a close personal friend of D.H. Lawrence, Mr. Lloyd is nothing less than the Davidson College Bowl Oracle. No flies on this guy.

Captain John “Eggman” Eglin
On loan from the British Museum, Cap’n Eggman is the senior bulwark of the team. In his fourth year of college varsity competition, the elder Peach Brother is a history major from Atlanta, Ga. John has assumed the Herculean task of filling the shoes of retired Hall of Famer Brad Mullis, but the “chinless China” leads the kids with flair. As a player, the Eggman brings a completely unique style to the Green Room, as well as the fastest buzzer on the team — on bonuses: From St. Apollonia to Oscar Wilde, the Eggman never ceases to amaze.

Chris Blake, Man Without a Nickname
Now a junior, he’s no longer a prodigy, but Blake has blossomed into the rightful possessor of the All-American seat. Blake serves as DSG (Designated Science Guy) as well as the uncontested master of TV trivia. More than just a one-dimensional player, Blake is the College Bowl Driver and most often keeper of the Tunes, inspiring the Cats with such greats as Chuck Berry or the Killer. Hailing from St. Petersburg, FL, Blake is a member of the A Team (better known as political science majors) and a Ding Brother. His trademarks are his fast break style and the high-decibel answer.

Dave “Dave-O,” “Walrus” Sisk
The Spider brings D & D, overalls, and facial hair to the Green Room. The junior Peach Brother, Dave-O can stay step-for-step with the Eggman on booze and food questions, as well as mythology and miscellaneous weird stuff. An English major from Atlanta, Ga., the Spider is the unquestioned authority on sci-fi, Marlin Perkins questions, and the hard-line stance on intramurals rules procedures. Moving over to Emanon next term to set up the College Bowl Training Table, Dave-O completes the Class of ’85 triumvirate that will form the core of the College Bowl Cats for two full years.

Tim “Wingspan” Waples
Formerly the Player of the Future, he’s just finished a 1 1/2 year stint as Last Alternate and all-around cheerleader. Product of a strong College Bowl heritage, his parents are the Greatest College Bowl Fans of All Time. Although he’s entering his fifth year of related competition, nobody can convince Waples that he’s not still the new kid on the block. Like Blake, he’s a Ding Brother and an A Team member. Trademarks include the unconventional two-handed buzzer approach, the laconic “Get off, bro” after a teammate’s stylish interrupt and the Sun Car, the number 2 College Bowl Vehicle. He’s good on dates, too.

Spiritual Advisor Greg “Guru” Rhodes
Nurtured both of the Ding Brothers to third place intramurals finishes in ’81 and ’82, preparing them for the major leagues. Keeps everybody up on their Aristotle while showing by example the dangers of Soft Skin and LA sports teams.

The days when the stereotype of the eggheaded hermit playing College Bowl are long gone. You'll see each of these guys on campus in activities far from the buzzer. We’ve tried to bring fun and just a little silliness to a worthwhile, but little-known pastime. Successful or not, the now-not-so-mysterious Green Room will be back next week with the latest on the intramural tournament.