«Wait just a minute here, you! We bring potent, successful writers the news. Every little tawdry paper wants you "for
just another news quickie"; every editor, for instance, just wants more cheap, easy copy. One quick bang on the typewriter
and it's all over.

Any subject will do, no matter how ugly, dull, or trite. Consider the veritable safari of choices this tabloid offered
us. We were forced to decline what promised to be a captivating interview with Charlie Summers on his subversive political
acts on campus, particularly his latest pamphlet, “How to Avoid Nuclear Frostbite in the Coming Freeze,” as well as a
dazzling opportunity to quiz the President of Greenpeace on the plight of the unborn gay whales. Our third option seemed
the most breathtaking and gut-wrenching—the Davidsonian offered to document our trek into the wilds of Mooresville’s Whataburger.

It was a short journey. Our trustworthy native guide, Laura, drove us unerringly through the dark North Carolina tundra, following
the tracks her ancestors had made years ago. We arrived suddenly at this alluring, tastefully orchestrated pool of mood lighting.
What mood, we can’t say, but it reminded us of Uncle Fester sticking two 60-watt bulbs up his nose.

Since we were just cruising for some fast copy in this joint, and were ambivalent about our position, we whipped
into the first available slot. Fortune was on our side. So was the menu. It didn’t look fortunate, but can
you really miss if you order a “Witch Doctor”?

Yes, you can. We inquired over our primitive, battered “Servus-Fone” exactly what the Witch Doctor was said to cure. The
woman housed in our box answered, “Thirst, okay?” She then described the beverage, which, as it turns out, is a
permanent cure. It is a medley of all the sour notes in the soft drink orchestra, beginning with a saccharine
prelude of TAB; followed by the swelling interplay of Sprite and Sundrop, united by a leitmotif of Coke; all climaxing
with a resounding splash of lemons and pickles. (There is an optional onion encore.)

Feeling that perhaps thirst wasn’t such a bad concept after all, we decided to inquire into the condition of their
less threatening delights. Wondering about the conceptual duality teasingly suggested by the difference between a “Whataburger” and a “Whatahamburger,” we
innocently asked, “What’s a Whataburger?” Truth, no matter how ugly, will out. Box woman had no chance to answer before
an apostate of the kitchen fires replied: “Whataburger’s got lettuce-tomato-onion-mustard, and Whatahamburger’s got mustard-slaw-chili-onions.”

“Oh,” we heartily replied, deciding that perhaps neither was the combination for us. The Whatasalisbury proved less complex, if more
enigmatic. “I don’t know what kind of meat it is,” said another box lady. “It’s breaded veal,” said the apostate.
“It’s goat meat,” said a suddenly enthused customer nearby. “Oh,” we said, deciding that both hunger and thirst were rather
intriguing concepts, not to be discarded so lightly.

Feeling a tad overwhelmed at all this epiphanal revelation, we decided to rest. Fortunately, there were on the premises accommodating
facilities, restrooms. Which were perhaps more convenient than, say, rest homes, but more aptly termed rest booths. Not restful. Rather
disturbing.

As if the food weren’t enough to satiate anyone’s appetite, the men’s restroom (as opposed to the rather austere women’s
restroom) offered a veritable warehouse of intriguing merchandise, most designed to “arouse her animal passions.” Whose, we don’t know. Perhaps
it should read “her animal’s passions”; from the diagram this certainly looked to be a possibility. Or if indeed “her
animal passions” is correct, what animal? Who wants a woman who thinks she’s a passionate lemming? Perhaps one determines which
animal passion is unleashed by choosing from among “five exotic colors: blue, red, yellow, black, and fuchsia with magenta racing
stripes.” We don’t know, but Marlon Perkins has probably put in many hard hours finding out.

Obviously, the restrooms were less than restful. In fact, so disturbed were we that we rushed past the clientele lounging
comfortably in their various bucket seats, and made our way unsteadily back to our faithful yet smug guide, Laura. We
will discuss no more the Whataburger. No sense beating, or eating, a dead goat. We’d been used, wrung out like
two dishtowels and cast aside, our journalistic integrity violated. Again.

DAVIDSON GOES UPTOWN

VAIL COMMONS
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15

BE THERE!

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 February 1983 13
