Friday, September 16, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Women Constitute 43 Percent of Large Freshman Class One of the Smartest Ever

By DAVID VAN PELT

A larger-than-usual class size and a greater percentage of women characterize the incoming class of freshmen. This year’s class of 366 students (compared to 342 last year) is, according to Dean of Admissions John V. Griffith, an attempt “to compensate for the bulge” created by last year’s senior class. That class, at 400 the largest in Davidson’s history, “created a bubble” which was partially offset by the large admittance this year.

The large number of women in the Class of 1987 (43 percent) was not an accident, according to Griffith, but a conscious attempt to better adhere to the Trustee’s Policy. This policy dictates that the male/female ratio of the student body be roughly between 60:40 and 66 2/3:33 1/3. Last year’s student body approached the higher limit, so a disproportionate number of women were admitted this year.

Test scores for incoming freshmen were only slightly different from last year. Mean SAT scores were 603 in verbal and 627 in math, compared to scores of 605 and 625 respectively, last year. These scores are significantly higher, however, than in most prior years. The mean composite SAT score in 1979, for example, was 1181, or 49 points lower than this year. This is one effect of increasingly competitive admissions at Davidson. Applications increased 20 percent over last year. As Griffith notes, “Among the top rung of small liberal arts colleges this year, only three (Amherst, Radcliffe, and Williams) were more selective than Davidson.” Griffith finds Davidson’s impressive yield ratio significant, the percentage of initially admitted students who elect to attend the school. Davidson, at 59 percent, follows closely behind leaders Yale (60 percent) and Harvard (71 percent).

When asked whether students seemed more pragmatic and career-oriented than in the past, as has commonly been noted, Griffith commented that they have “a concern of students and their parents towards grad schools and career.”

Water Ruins Carpet

By JACKIE DAUGHTRY

The roof of the Fannie and Mable eating house leaked and ruined the basement carpet this summer. F & M officers feel that the College should pay for the damages because it is supposed to maintain the eating houses. The School has not yet agreed to pay for the carpet. Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze said, “I did not know anything about the damaged rug until today [September 12].” When asked if the same problem had happened to other houses in the past he said, “Each house is responsible for its own basement. The College does maintain the eating houses, and at one time the basements were waterproof.”

F & M President Beverly Hart said, “I didn’t know that the basement was supposed to be waterproof, and I would like to see them that way again.” Hart said the $1,500 cost to replace the rug would come from F & M savings. Because F & M will probably not cover the floor underneath the leak, the estimate is considerably lower than it might have been. Even if F & M has to pay for the rug, it will not affect the board bills. Hart wondered if the same problem had happened before, because the ruined rug was only a year and a half old. Hart would like to replace the rug by next week.opportunities." Griffith says that in the orientation ceremonies he was impressed by the "rich and distinct" nature of the students. "They seemed like a class that is extremely happy," he said. These views are echoed elsewhere. Kathy Gratto, a hall counselor in Richardson, described the freshmen as "individualistic" and "talented." Wilson Lowrey, a hall counselor in Belk, believes that the sheer "input in numbers" of the class of 1987 will render their influence in Davidson affairs an important one. 

Freshmen have their own comment on their class. Richard Cloudt from Rutherfordton, NC, characterizes the freshmen as "mature" and "serious when it’s necessary." Kathleen Caldwell from Richmond, VA was pleased by the diversity of the students. "Just in my hall there are people from so many different places," she said. Bilal El Amin, a student from Lebanon, remarked that Davidson students "are friendly to foreigners," and very inquisitive. "This is not the first time that I’ve been away from my family for long, but it is for most people. They're like wild dogs just let loose by their parents," he observed.

Upperclass Women Moved To Faculty Housing
By BRUCE PLOURDE

Twenty-two female Davidson juniors and seniors were redirected in their housing arrangements this summer because of a decision to increase the incoming freshman class by twenty female students. Director of Housing Bill Bolding notified the upperclass women in mid-July of the displacement from rooms assigned in last spring’s housing lottery and gave them the choice of living on the ground floor of Cannon, in the faculty apartments, or in other various sites on and off campus.

Bolding said that the reorganization caused some problems. "We reserved all of Richardson and three floors of Belk, which we have never done before." Five rooms were reserved on the ground floor of Cannon for any additions. Since the ground floor of Cannon could not house twenty new students, Bolding decided to put the extra students on Fourth Little and to move those people already assigned there to other locations. Bolding got authorization to use the faculty apartments, which house approximately ten people. Other students moved into Cannon, and the remainder was placed wherever an opening became available.

The women had no notion of the rearrangements until mid-July, according to Jillian Clayton, an apartment resident. One problem they faced was keeping their hallmates together. Susan Herbert, another apartment resident, mentioned the many long-distance phone calls she made to get the consensus of her roommates. Distance also created a problem in dealing with the housing department, but both Jillian and Susan agreed that Bolding was very helpful.

Apartment residents pay triple rent, which costs less than regular room rent. "Having separate rooms without the clutter of a desk and bed in one room is nice," said Herbert in comparing the apartment and the rooms in Little. They find no problems in living five to an apartment except during the morning rush for the single shower. "But you might tell Bill Bolding to send us some more furniture," said Clayton.

By Peggy Pierotti

The basement floor of Cannon also had troubles keeping their group together. Having the option of living separated in apartments or taking the ground hall in Cannon, they chose to stick together. Laura Ratchford remarked that the rooms are bigger, the atmosphere quieter, and the hall in general most acceptable. Their only complaints involved the ant population, the lack of window screens, and the absence of air conditioning.