The Davidsonian / Friday, April 22, 1983

FOCUS: Student Government Association

By DAN VOORHIS

The Student Government Association is the official voice of the Davidson student body. The SGA’s function is, according to its
by-laws, “to share with the Board of Trustees, the faculty, and the administration the responsibility of developing and maintaining Davidson
as a superior academic community.” It both administers student affairs and represents them to other organizations at Davidson.

“The SGA has a two-fold purpose. First, it is program oriented, providing services for the benefit of the students. Second,
the SGA represents the student body, acting as a channel for student opinion and as a guardian of student interest,”
said SGA president Hunter Monroe.

The SGA President leads the organization by presiding over both the Senate, the main legislative body, and the Senate Executive
Committee (SEC), the main executive body. The President also sits on the Student Conduct Council; the Advisory Board on Fiscal,
Personnel, and Development Affairs; and the Council on Campus Life. The President is also the only student who has the
right to attend and speak at Faculty and Trustee meetings.

Directly below stands the Vice-president who, as stated in the by-laws, “assists the president in the execution of his duties.”
He serves as a member of the Senate, SEC, and various councils and boards. He also chairs the Residence Hall
Council. Lentz Ivey is the newly elected Vice-President.

The Senate is the main forum of the SGA. Its powers lie mostly in creating study committees, formulating and overseeing
policy, and delegating authority for the allocation of funds for student organizations. The Senate consists of three members from each
class; one from each dorm (three from Belk); one off-campus senator for each 100 students; President and Vice-President of the
SGA; and the freshmen advisor, who serves until freshmen are elected.

The Senate Executive Committee oversees the Senate by discussing pertinent issues and proposing the agenda for the Senate. The SEC
also receives and reviews reports from other SGA agencies and submits them with recommendations. The SGA may, by a two-thirds
senate majority, petition the Board of Trustees for direct action in a vital matter. Most recently, former president Tim Johnson
offered the student referendum condemning the semester proposal. Last year, SGA petitions helped defeat a change in the grading system.

Underneath the Senate are the various committees, councils, and boards. Committees consider such matters as the Senate may refer to
them and make recommendations. They are subject to the Senate. They include: Charters and By-Law Committee, Educational Affairs Committee, Finance
Committee, Security and Parking Committee, and the Union and Social Life Committee.

The councils are semi-autonomous, having enough authority to operate, but ultimately subject to the Senate. They include: Residence Hall Council,
Activities Tax Council, Elections Council, and Intramural Athletic Council.

The boards are fully independent but their by-laws must be approved by the Senate. The boards include: Union Board and
Publications Board.

SGA Plays Advisory Role

By JOHN RUPPENTHAL

The SGA can be actively involved in policy decisions, not directly as many students seem to feel that it should,
but indirectly in an advisory role, according to several administrators. The SGA has no vote in either faculty or trustee
decisions. This apparently leads many students to conclude that the SGA is merely a symbol of student power, that the
administration of the College surpasses any student control other than in matters not vital to the future course of Davidson
life. But Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean ofthe Faculty, T. C. Price Zimmermann, feels that one should not underestimate
the SGA’s indirect influence. “The administration listens very carefully to the SGA,” he said. “The student body President is allowed
to attend faculty meetings where he can speak whenever the spirit moves him.” Zimmermann said that although the SGA isn’t
organized to determine academic policy, he feels that since he has been at Davidson, the SGA has “been a positive
force” in improving student life.

“Take a gnome home to mom”
A drawing will be held on Thursday, May 5 for a gnome called “Mom.” No purchase necessary to enter.
Mother’s Day Special
THOMAS F. CLARK STUDIO
1920 GREY ROAD
892-5859

“The students who have been elected are interested in representing the student body constructively in determining and regulating student activities,”
Zimmermann said.

Associate Dean of Students Sue Ross expressed similar opinions on the importance of the SGA. However, she noted that the
SGA president determines the SGA’s effectiveness by making sure that student opinions are represented in administration and trustee meetings. “The
president,” she said, “must make an effort to actively show interest in administrative proceedings. He is often the only person
from the SGA that trustees have an opportunity to solicit advice from on a personal basis.”

Board of Trustees President Fred Stair also stressed that a personal rapport between the President of the SGA and trustee
members can play an important part in determining the extent of student representation. Stair added, however, that trustee decisions don’t
depend entirely on the SGA’s advice on student opinions. “The trustees have tried, in recent years, to use many opportunities
to come to Davidson and get to know the students personally,” Stair said, adding that “in a school as small
as Davidson, we have an opportunity to get to know people.”

The lack of understanding between the SGA and administration is the most difficult problem in the relationship, according to Ross.
She said that Davidson students are idealistic in the changes they want at their college and “often don’t understand the
compromises” that the administration and faculty must make in initiating these changes. Improving discourse between the two groups is the
most important step toward building student-administration relations and increasing the SGA's effectiveness, according to Ross. “The more we talk to
each other, the more information that is available about SGA activities, the more understanding and trust can develop between the
two groups,” she said. Ross fears that misconceptions, mistrust, and apathy can result because students often are not aware of
what the SGA is or is not supposed to be doing.

DO YOU WANT TO FLY?
Face it—you've always wanted to fly! Many of us have had the feeling, and for some, it has never gone
away. If you have that feeling, then you're in luck. The Air Force ROTC Flight Instruction Program (FIP) is available
to you. It's designed to teach you the basics of flight through flying lessons in small aircraft at a civilian-operated
flying school. The program is an EXTRA for cadets who can qualify to become Air Force pilots through Air Force
ROTC. Taken during the senior year in college, FIP is the first step for the cadet who is going on
to Air Force jet pilot training after graduation. This is all reserved for cadets who want to get their life
off the ground with Air Force silver pilot wings. Check it out today. Gateway to a great way of life.
