The Davidsonian
Friday, March 18, 1983

Ivey, Mason Vie for Vice Presidency
Presidential Candidates: Ester Kim, Faunter Monrve, Burt Taylor

Juniors Lentz Ivey and Leon Mason are running for SGA Vice-President. Elections are this Tuesday. The Davidsonian asked the candidates
these three questions and asked for written responses:

1. What is your experience?
2. What are your goals for the SGA?
3. What do you see as the role of the SGA Vice-President?

The slightly edited responses follow:

Lentz Ivey

1. While involvement in campus activities does not always accurately reflect the knowledge and wisdom of any individual, I feel
that the organizations and interests that one pursues can say a lot about personal character. The areas of student life
that I associate with contribute greatly to who I am. In listing these experiences, I not only give to you
a range of activities that illustrate diversity but also I give to you a large part of myself. I am
a student like you, a person who only asks for a fair evaluation and a chance to do his best.

Activities:
Freshman Year: Senator, Student Government; co-developer of Saturnalia 1981; played a major role in student initiative to terminate ARA-Slater’s operation
of Davidson’s dining program.
Sophomore Year: Senator, Student Government; advisor to Saturnalia 1982; chairperson Food Committee, Student Government; Director of Art, Student Dining Facility;
member Davidson Christian Fellowship; member Trustee Contact Committee, Student Government.
Junior Year: Advisor to Saturnalia 1983; Chairperson Food Committee, Student Government; Director of Art, Student Dining Facility; Business Manager of
The Davidsonian; member Gospel Choir; member Media Board; member Prelaw Club.

2. As vice-president, one of my primary goals will be to aid in the creation of a responsive Student Government.
While I desire to continue existing programs (the Patterson Court Study Committee, Trustee Contact Committee, Phonathon, SGA Weekend, and the
Careers Symposium, for example), I think that more participation from students presently not involved with the SGA can do much
to broaden our campus government’s interests and influence. Of course, these goals will necessarily require that the SGA present itself
as an open and flexible organization. I hope that the vice-president, working closely with the president, the Senate, and the
student media, can help present government in these ways. I also think the SGA should work toward maintaining a healthy
rapport with the Faculty and Administration and should respond to student concerns honestly and accurately.

3. The SGA vice-president, although his role is largely undefined by Student Government Bylaws, can contribute greatly to the internal
operation of his organization. I foresee a close working relationship with the President that would emphasize, yet not be limited
to, the motivation of Senate members and a drive to increase student involvement in campus affairs. I think that my
positive relationship with each of the presidential candidates along with my communications and leadership abilities can help the vice-president’s role
and the SGA to achieve these things.

Leon Mason

1. Having to speak of prior experience for anything that one has not had the pleasure of experiencing is a
difficult task indeed. As far as credentials are concerned for the position of SGA vice-president, I have a list of
items I am sure would serve the purpose. Beginning with my freshman and sophomore years in high school, I was
a student council representative. During my glorious junior year I had the pleasure of being the junior class vice-president, and
also I was the president of Mt. Dora High School’s FBLA chapter. During my unforgettable senior year I was chosen
as vice-president of Florida’s District V FBLA Chapter. Graduating honorably from high school, I came to Davidson where I was
chosen as one of the three Freshman class senators. I sat out Sophomore year, but came back strong in my
Junior year to become Belk’s upperclassman senator. Now I’m back determined to be your next SGA vice-president.

2. I would like for you to sit back...and consider a question that has recently become a sincere interest of
mine. Is Davidson’s student/faculty population really as diverse as it may seem? If you can’t come up with an answer,
I have one for you. Our population is not nearly as diverse as it could be. Of course, we have
people from the North and South, but they’re all, well, the majority of us are either northeasterners or southeasterners. What
about mid- and northwesterners? I believe that because of Davidson’s tradition of recruiting mostly eastern American standouts, we’re severely lacking
in popularity in the other two-thirds of our great country. I hear they grow ‘em big out West, including brains!
I believe that the SGA should definitely increase its aims toward acquiring a more diverse population. It couldn’t do much
more than help us, especially when the question of graduation and careers is at hand. Why limit Davidson’s prestige to
the Eastern portions of the states? I propose telling everybody about the best damn undergraduate school in the Southeast.

My second concern is what credit system the College will utilize upon adopting the semester system in 1984. I support
the idea that we adopt the credit-hours system. When considering the hours that people of the physics, chemistry, biology, and
ROTC type spend, it seems only fair that the credit-hour system be adopted and the course-credit system dumped.

My next concern centers around the idea of SGA and student constituency relations. Simply said, I would like to bring
about an increased student awareness of SGA activity, and also I would like to bring about an increased SGA awareness
of student opinions, ideas, qualms, etc. The SGA, much like the state that governs our lives, in my opinion, has
a duty, and that duty is/should be a concern for the welfare of its constituency.

Last, but certainly not least, I am concerned about the existing curriculum here at Davidson. I perceive a need for
an increased number of Black/Negro studies in our curriculum. To the best of my knowledge, I recall only one course
in the course catalogue that could truly be labeled and placed in the category of Black/Negro studies. That course is
an English course, “The Black Novel.” I happen to be a history major, and I would love to learn/study about
some of those Negro achievers that have, for some reason or another, eluded the Davidson curriculum. Obviously, there will arise
a need for some new faculty member/members to deal with this most interesting proposal. We need diversity; this is a
liberal arts school!

Being your basic traditionalist, I'm totally sold on the idea that the vice-president's most significant purpose is to serve as
an aide to the president (Ester, Burt, or Hunter). By this, I believe that the vice-president should stand in for
the president upon the president's absence; should the president become ill, there is no question in my mind where the
vice-president should be. Even during those rare times when the president may request the vice-president to stand in for him,
the vice-president should be prepared to do so.

Furthermore, I feel that the vice-president should act as a kind of link between the constituency and the president. That
is, he should oversee and conduct the senate committees in such a way that they would benefit and/or enhance the
relations between the SGA and the regular student population. I have abbreviated my thoughts as to the duties of the
vice-president greatly, but I’m certain that you can imagine what this position demands of whomever may be presiding. It just
so happens that the exact qualities needed for this position are the essence of my personality — they are energy
and determination.

The Davidsonian offers a typesetting service at reasonable rates. If you need any flyers, brochures, invitations, newsletters, or any other
form of typesetting, call 892-2000 ext. 148 or 149 for more information.
