“Friday, March 25, 1983

Review Board Terms Changed

The Student Conduct Council of Responsibility adopted an amendment to the Code of Responsibility which calls for a two-year student
term on the Review Board. Under the resolution, one junior will be elected for a two-year term. Thus, a junior
and senior would always be serving on the board, giving it a sense of continuity, according to the amendment. Under
the current Code of Responsibility, two seniors are elected yearly to serve on the Board.

According to the Code of Responsibility, in order to amend substantive provisions of the Code of Responsibility, the Conduct Council
must reach a majority on two votes at least fourteen days apart. Dean of Students Will Terry said that “although
the second vote hasn't been held, elections for the Review Board will proceed as if the amendment had passed both
votes.” Terry anticipates no problems with gaining a majority on the second vote.

Two Students Win Fiction Contest

For the second year in a row, a Davidson College student has won the fiction contest at the Hollins College
Annual Literary Festival. Senior Kirsten McDonald, an English major from Charleston, S.C., won first prize with her story, “Good Luck
With the Bad.” Senior James Barrat, a philosophy student from Shepherdstown, W. Va., placed second with his story, “Waiting for
Starkweather.” Their stories were judged among 165 other entries from more than 15 colleges in North Carolina, Virginia, and Alabama.
Poet Anthony Hecht, poetry consultant for the Library of Congress, and fiction writer Alice McDermott judged the entries.

Davidson College students are encouraged to submit their work each year by English professor Anthony S. Abbott. “Both students are
very talented writers,” Abbott said. “They have done outstandingly well representing Davidson College, and we are very pleased and proud
of them.”

College Secretary Commended For Crime Stopping

Jane N. Biggerstaff, staff secretary in the central services department at Davidson College, has been awarded a certificate of commendation
from the North Carolina Campus Law Enforcement Administrators Association for helping to break up a ring of bicycle thieves. “Her
alertness and prompt action made it possible for the Davidson College Public Safety Department and the Davidson Police Department to
apprehend three individuals for larceny of bicycles on December 17, 1983,” the certificate reads. “Her involvement made the quick arrest
and conviction possible.”

Biggerstaff telephoned campus security officers after she saw strangers loading bicycles into a car near the campus, according to Jackie
G. Hughes, director of public safety at the College. Hughes is a member of the awards committee for the law
enforcement administrators association. Biggerstaff has worked at Davidson College since 1971.

“Twelfth Night” to Play This Wednesday

The Acting Company, the touring arm of the John F. Kennedy Center in Washington, will present Shakespeare’s comedy “Twelfth Night”
on March 29 at 8:15 p.m. in J. Spencer Love Auditorium at Davidson College. First performed at a feast on
Candlemas Day in 1602, “Twelfth Night, or What You Will” is a comedy of romance and mistaken identity on the
island of Illyria.

The Acting Company consists of 17 actors and actresses selected from America’s leading professional theatre-training programs and regional theatres. It
was founded in 1972 by John Houseman, who was then the head of the drama division of the Juilliard School
in New York, and Margot Harley. Admission will be free to season ticket holders and $7 for others. For further
information call the College Union at (704) 892-2000, extension 140.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000 ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, North
Carolina 28036.

Duncan Fraser, News Editor
Kelly Sundberg, Assistant News Editor
Thurston Hatcher, Features Editor
Barry Elledge,Opinions Editor: Anderson Scott, Photography Editor: Jeffrey Danese, Advertising Manager: Ann Meador, Editor: David Resnik, Executive Editor: Jeff Mann,
Associate Editor: Ross Holt, Managing Editor:

The Davidsonian

Davidson Students Attend Nuclear Freeze Rally

A group of ten Davidson students and College Chaplain Charlie Summers participated in a national Citizens Lobby for the Freeze
rally in Washington, D.C. on March 8-9, organized in support of the House of Representatives’ Nuclear Freeze Resolution. The event’s
main activities included speeches by important pro-freeze organizers, and a rally on the West side of the Capitol at which
Ted Kennedy spoke. The Davidson group also met with Congressman Jim Martin (NC-R) and Senator John East (NC-R). Junior Debby
Williams said the trip was successful. “It gave us a sense of unity, and inspiration to keep working.” The group
hopes to continue its lobbying efforts, involving more Davidson students and enlisting the aid of community members as well.

Food Service Conference at Davidson College

College food directors, production supervisors, and chefs gathered at the College Commons on March 21-22 for the National Association of
College and University Food Service (NACUFS) conference. Dining Service Director Carleton Pritchard hosted the two-day conference entitled “Professional Management for
the Production Supervisor.” “The NACUFS meets twice a year to bring college professionals together to swap ideas and share methodologies,”
Pritchard said. “Professionals within the field of college feeding as well as those that sell to the industry attend the
conference in hopes of enhancing their own operation.” More than 15 colleges participated in the conference, including Virginia Polytechnic Institute
(VPI), Auburn University, North Carolina State University, Washington and Lee University, University of Georgia, and Emory University.

Lerone Bennett to Lecture at Davidson College

Journalist, author, and historian Lerone Bennett Jr. will lecture at Davidson College March 31 at 7:30 p.m. in J. Spencer
Love Auditorium under the auspices of the Martin Luther King Jr. Lecture Series. Bennett, senior editor of Ebony magazine since
1958, will speak on “Black History, White History, and the American Dream.” Bennett launched his journalism career in 1949 as
a reporter for the Atlanta Daily World. Promoted to city editor in 1952, he remained there until 1953 when he
joined Jet and Ebony magazines. After serving as associate editor of Jet for one year, he became associate editor of
Ebony in 1954 until his promotion to senior editor.

Finegan to Edit Quips & Cranks

Catherine Finegan is running unopposed for the editorship of the 1983-84 Quips & Cranks. Finegan decided to run after working
with Q & C first as a copy editor and then as associate editor, holding the latter position since January.
When asked about plans and changes she had for the new yearbook, Finegan said that the yearbook would be computerized
for the first time. “We would be able to put everything on the computer and spool it off to the
printer instead of writing everything four times.” Finegan said a theme would be decided upon by late April and, according
to precedence, would be secret until the book is released. Finegan already has the process of producing the yearbook well
underway. Currently, she has taken bids from four publishers and will accept one before the summer. During the summer, which
she will spend in Cambridge, Finegan plans to continue her yearbook work by designing the page layouts. Finegan is currently
an intern at the Observer and last week published an editorial on “Latch-Key Children.” When asked why she preferred the
Q & C to more journalistic pursuits she replied that she likes “the more creative aspect of the yearbook.”

News Staff: Diana Bohrer, Roxanna Guilford, Mary Beth Harding, Paulette Kurani, Jeff Holland, Tim McGaughey, Mike Tantillo, Dan Voorhis

Features Staff: Fred Broadwell, Brian Butler, Craig Detweiler, Jonathan Glance, Bob Finch, Thurston Hatcher, John Krotchko, Eric Long, Kirsten McDonald,
John Marks, Matt Morris, Tracy Thompson

Sports Staff: Bobby Barnes, Scott Huie, Kara Gilmore, Garry Sullivan

Photography Staff: Neil Cooksey, Angelique Foster, John Lyday, Laura McGee, John Ruppenthal

Production Staff: Rob Hollenbeck, James Moore, Jim Morgan
