The Davidsonian / Friday, May 6, 1983

Trustees Return for Spring Meeting
Dinner Honors Spencer

The Davidson Board of Trustees held its spring meeting this morning from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the Baxter Davidson Room. The Trustees considered the relationship of the College to the Southern Conference resulting from the recently adopted change in the conference By-laws requiring all conference members to compete for the conference championship in football and basketball.

The Building and Grounds Committee and the Committee on Intramural and Intercollegiate Physical Education and Athletic Policy presented their joint recommendation on the new sports complex. The Presidential Search Committee presented a report on its progress to date. The Personnel Policy Committee reported in executive session on matters concerning College President Samuel Spencer’s retirement. The Management, Investment, Finance, and Budget Committee recommended guidelines for the motel at the intersection of I-77 and Griffith Street purchased some years ago.

The Trustees discussed implementation of the semester system, especially the proposal to reduce the academic year from thirty to twenty-eight weeks. The Academic and Educational Policies Committee also brought to the Board for action in executive session recommendations of candidates for tenure and promotion. Trustee sub-committees met last night. The Trustees held their plenary session at the beginning of the meeting. SGA President Hunter Monroe, the Administrative Liaison, and Faculty Pro-Tempor and Religion professor David Kaylor were allowed to attend the plenary session.

Presidential Search Continues
Committee reviews applicants from across country
By BOB LOPER

The Presidential Search Committee is still reviewing the resumes of about 250 candidates for the presidency of Davidson College. Because the process is so time-consuming and necessarily cautious, there is little chance that they will narrow the field quickly, said Presidential Search Committee Chairman Ben T. Craig. However, the committee hopes to recommend a candidate to the Board of Trustees by July 1.

At present, the applications and resumes, which have been submitted from across the country, are being reviewed by the appointed committees of Trustees, faculty, and students. These committees will reduce the number of applicants, but not to any particular number. Eventually, they will invite certain outstanding candidates to campus for interviews. Though the committee hopes to make its final choice by July 1, the retirement date of current president Samuel Spencer, Craig stresses that the committee does not feel especially bound by time constraints. This is simply because they want to be certain that they have chosen “the right man for the job.”

There are no definite prerequisites for the office, and the committee is considering many diverse and important qualifications. Among these are scholarly reputation, administrative experience, and business acumen. If the selection process extends beyond July 1, Professor Emeritus of History Frontis Johnston will serve as interim president until the new president can begin work. Even if the committee does announce its decision by July 1, though, it appears that Johnston will serve for a time while the future president balances his affairs and prepares to move to Davidson.

Meanwhile, the selection process continues slowly but steadily and is surrounded by the strictest confidentiality. The committee still receives several nominations each week and has placed no deadline on applications.

The Trustees then held their executive session, and all non-Trustees except Spencer were required to leave.

Dinner Honors Spencer

The Trustees honored Samuel and Ava Spencer at a dinner last night in the Commons. More than 125 current and former trustees and their spouses attended. Former Secretary of State Dean Rusk '31, Trustee Warner Hall '57, Walter Lingle ’28, and Chairman of the Board of Trustees Fred Stair ’39 spoke at the meeting.

Honor Cases

Dean of Students Will Terry has announced Honor Council and Code of Re-Responsibility cases for Winter term and part of Spring term. The Dean handled one stealing case with a sanction of indefinite suspension. The Dean ruled on two cheating cases. One case resulted in a one-term suspension. The other case resulted in a student forfeiting a course because of the special nature of the violation and the concern of the instructor. The Honor Council handled one cheating case with a sanction of two terms’ suspension. The Honor Council also heard seven stealing cases related to fraternity road trips. The defendants were issued censures and the Honor Council announced that future cases would receive more severe punishments. The Council heard nine Code of Responsibility cases, six by the Dean and three by the Honor Council. The sanctions for these ranged from censure to indefinite suspension.

350 Seniors To Graduate At Commencement

Davidson College will confer degrees on nearly 350 graduating seniors at the College’s annual commencement exercises at 10:15 a.m. May 22 on the front campus. Honorary doctor of laws degrees will be presented to Edward J. Mack, retired executive vice president of Burlington Industries, and Dr. Jay M. Robinson, superintendent of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg schools. Several awards also will be presented, including first and second honors among the graduating class and two Algernon Sydney Sullivan awards, one to a member of the senior class and one to a person outside the student body. Established in 1926 by the New York Southern Society, the Sullivan awards recognize fine spiritual qualities applied practically to daily living.

The other activities will begin with an ROTC commissioning ceremony at 2:45 p.m. May 21 in Hodson Hall. Nine graduates are expected to be commissioned as second lieutenants in the U.S. Army during the ceremony. The speaker will be Lieutenant General Harry A. Griffith, director of the Defense Nuclear Agency. A baccalaureate service will be held in Davidson College Presbyterian Church at 6 p.m. May 21. Dean of Students Will Terry will deliver the sermon, and there will be performances by the Davidson College Concert Choir and the Davidson College Wind Ensemble. Following the baccalaureate, Davidson College President and Mrs. Samuel Spencer will host a supper for graduating seniors and their families in Vail Commons. Admission to the supper is by ticket only. The Davidson College Concert Choir will present a concert at 8:30 p.m. May 21 in Love Auditorium. The concert is a regular feature of the night before commencement, and admission is free to the public.

Both honorary degree recipients have had distinguished careers. Mack is a 1937 Davidson graduate who went on to earn a Harvard MBA. After five years of military service and experience with two financial firms, he joined Burlington Industries in 1948 as head of systems and internal auditing. Mack spent three years as chief financial officer of Dan River Mills from 1952-55, then rejoined Burlington to serve in a variety of financial and international administrative areas until he retired in 1981. He now works as a consultant. Mack was formerly the chairman of the board of trustees of St. Andrews Presbyterian College, and serves on the board of visitors for both Davidson College and the Duke University Graduate School of Business. He is an elder of First Presbyterian Church in Greensboro, and has been active with the Boy Scouts of America. He is a native of Mooresville.

Robinson, also a native North Carolinian, comes from the tiny town of Bandana in Mitchell County. A graduate of Appalachian State University, he holds the master’s degree from UNC and the doctorate from Duke University. Robinson served for 12 years as a teacher and principal in Concord schools before spending two years as assistant superintendent and 12 years as superintendent of Cabarrus County Schools. He became superintendent of Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools in 1977.