Cats Roll 57-52, KW Contracts ‘Rim Burn’
By STEVE SOUD ‘84

“It’s a situation where everybody’s got to hang together and believe in each other, or it all starts falling apart,” Bobby Hussey said about Davidson’s 57-52 come-from-behind win over the Citadel Wednesday night in Johnston Gym.

The Wildcats hung together and believed in each other enough to salvage an important Southern Conference game from a scrappy Bulldog team that not so long ago lost to UT-C by only 58-57. The Bulldogs, bolstered by 56.5% first-half shooting, led the struggling Wildcats 30-27 by halftime. Davidson turned the tables in the second half, though, as they shot 60.9% from the field while holding the Citadel to 40% second-half shooting.

“Last year, we had a pretty low field goal percentage defense,” Hussey said. “Matter of fact, we were second in the league. Up until about a week and a half ago, our field goal percentage was second to last.”

“Offensively,” he pointed out, “our guys are hammering the offensive boards. The shots just won’t go down.”

Two high-percentage shots that did go down in the second half came on Kenny Wilson breakaway dunks. The first came as the focal point of a Davidson rally midway through the second half. KW got the ball and streaked down the court as the crowd of 1500 swelled with anticipation.

“I felt like a jet, like I was going through the roof,” Wilson said exuberantly as he pointed out a bruise (“rim burn”) midway up his forearm. Although he didn’t quite make it up into the rafters, his dunk ignited the crowd such that many thought the rafters would come down. The crowd remained a factor in the game. Hussey explained, “It really means so much from a coach’s standpoint and a player’s standpoint to get the kind of support we have. I know the players talk about it. It’s not just Notre Dame. We may get a big turnout in Johnston Gym, but it’s not home court advantage until we get the students in. I think our students are enthusiastic, and I think they’re clear.”

Even though the fans were in the game, The Citadel took them out as best they could by erasing the newly-established Davidson seven-point lead. Davidson called time out with 6:00 on the clock and the score tied, and Hussey made what he thought to be the instrumental change of the game.

“I thought the difference in the basketball game,” he said, “was when we put Cliff [Tribus] on the wing and posted Richard [Wilson] inside, and his penetration inside got the ball in to Kenny Wilson and Brian Rowan.” The move took little away from Davidson inside despite Tribus’s stellar 13 rebound, two blocked shot performance. Tribus thought the move was a good one — “That worked well; he [Richard Wilson] made some nice moves inside.”

But with :46 remaining and the score tied at 52-52, it came down to Kenny Wilson on the free throw line. He hit the first of two free throws but missed the second, giving Davidson a not-at-all-safe one-point lead. Then, after the Bulldogs worked their way across halfcourt, came the second of Cadillac’s high-percentage shots.

“I was upset because I missed the free throw,” Wilson said, “I was looking for something to make up for it. Fortunately, I got a little gift.” Much to the delight of the fans, KW rammed home his second breakaway dunk (and 18th point) for a 55-52 Wildcat lead. The possibility of a three-point field goal rendered the lead unsafe, however, and Citadel coach Les Robinson called time out with :24 remaining. The inbounds went to guard Felip de las Poyas, who was two for three from 19’9” and beyond that evening. He went up for his third with John Carroll in his face and Rowan recovered the miss. He was fouled and sent to the line for a one-and-one.With :15 on the clock, Rowan missed the front end, and Gerald Toney bolted down the sideline with hopes of a last-ditch three-pointer to tie the game. He, too, missed, and lo and behold, Cadillac was taking off for his third dunk of the night but was forced to try a layup by a Bulldog defender. Rowan laid in the miss (for his 10th point) to give Davidson the 57-52 win. The Citadel, as good a ball club as they have become, is the easy part. Now the Wildcats look forward to East Tennessee tomorrow night in Johnson City, and Marshall Monday night in Johnston Gym. The Buccaneers, 67-66 victors here two weeks ago, can only be better on their home court. Tribus, who played perhaps the best game of his career in the first meeting, figures Davidson must hit its open shots. “Actually,” he explained with a laugh, “I don’t know how much defense they work on. They rely on a scoring game and trying to score one or two more points than their opponents.” Marshall is a similar team. According to Hussey, “We cannot let them get into their tempo.” The Thundering Herd boasts an experienced squad, playing for coach Bob Zuffelato’s (who is giving up coaching for administration) last hurrah.

Grapplers Scrap Get 27-24 Win from Pfeiffer
BY SCOTT BEAVER ’84

The Wildcat grapplers improved their dual meet record to 3-2 with a 27-24 win over Pfeiffer last week, and this past weekend participated in the Washington and Lee tournament. Davidson took advantage of four forfeits in the 116, 150, 177, and 190-pound weight classes, while they forfeited in the 126-pound class and heavyweight division. The only Davidson wrestler who picked up a win was senior co-captain Chris Tiernan, who took Mike Simpson in a 6-2 decision.

At the W&L tournament, five Davidson wrestlers placed in the top four of their respective weight classes. Elon was the team winner of the tournament. Davidson had defeated Elon 3-2 in Johnston Gym on December 12. Freshman Tom Carlwell (126 lbs) placed fourth, compiling a 2-2 record. He downed Elon’s Jim Abrose 12-4 and pinned Hampden-Sydney’s Tom Bourne. Junior co-captain John Breidenstine (130) recorded another fourth-place finish as he also went 2-2. Breidenstine pinned W&L’s Mike Spullman at 3:43 and also picked up a forfeit. He lost to Longwood’s Steve Aleck 8-4, as well as Catawba’s Pat Price, whom he had beaten earlier in the year.

Tiernan finished third overall, beating Catawba’s Pete Simons 3-0, before losing to W&L’s Win Phillips 13-1. Tiernan came back to win by pinning Hampden-Sydney’s Rich Rogers and by beating Elon’s Bill Chenault, 6-5. Sophomore Mike Kelley picked up two wins, 13-1 over Lynchburg’s Jeff Wilder, and 9-7 over Rob Houska at Hampden-Sydney, before strained knee ligaments forced him out of action and gave Elon’s Phil Williams a forfeit. Kelley is expected to miss three weeks.

Junior Tom Hissam (137) finished second, as he lost his first match of the season in the process. He was pinned by Pfeiffer’s Den Budd at 2:42. He did beat W&L’s Dave Johnston, pinning him at 4:23, and Longwood’s Joe Bassby in a 10-8 decision. On the year so far Hissam is 9-1 for the ’Cats, while Oddo is 6-3, and Breidenstine and Kelley are 8-4. Tiernan, after a slow start, is now 5-6, and Coach Vince Arduini said he was pleased with the way the other wrestlers (freshman Jim Labree (138), and sophomore Bob McCullen) are coming along. Arduini cites inexperience as the major problem to be overcome.

This Tuesday, Davidson will face Catawba in Johnston Gym. This will be the Wildcats’ last home match of the season. The Davidson and Catawba wrestlers have faced each other in tournaments before, and Oddo simply called it a “grudge match.” Oddo is 1-1 on the season with Catawba’s Greg Stewart, after losing at W&L. There will be no love lost.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 28 January 1983