The Bonn Peace Rally

Everyone carried a lunch bag.

By FRED BROADWELL ’83

Last June, about six of the JYA-Marburg students took a day trip to Bonn, West Germany. We were headed to join an anticipated 400,000 people at the “Grosse Demonstration,” organized to protest the nuclear arms race coinciding with President Reagan's attendance at a NATO summit meeting.

The day the demonstration was announced, we saw the posters and spray-painted signs on the sidewalks; on the bridge to the cafeteria the megaphones blared: “Demo! Bonn! 10. Juni!” Feeling the need to protest what I believed to be the misguided foreign policy of the United States, I bought a ticket from one of the university political parties sponsoring a chartered bus.

At 8 a.m. on June 10 (a holiday in Germany), we boarded the double-length bus chartered by the Young Socialists, the university arm of the Social Democrats. I had tried to dress as European as possible to avoid being constantly spotted as an American. Many of the students had brought along buttons and signs and banners; I had brought along my lunch bag. The drive took about 4 hours, including a stop at a very crowded rest area, where dozens of other buses were stopping. On the Autobahn, bus after bus passed by, each one full of students and headed to Bonn. Our driver parked on the outskirts of town, near the beginning of one of the parade routes. We followed the crowds that streamed to an open field full of “demonstrators” and people selling everything imaginable: Cokes, cookies, peace jewelry, and books on “revolution.”

At 12:30, when we set off in the parade, what immediately surprised me was how cheerful and amusing the marchers were. Teens on bicycles, babies in carriages, and children in wagons weaved in and out of the procession of adults and banner-waving students. A guy in front of us had a bottle of alcohol and breathed fire every so often to amuse the crowd. After an hour of walking through the countryside, we passed under the Autobahn leading into town. The police had made it into an enormous parking lot, and there were buses shimmering as far as the eye could see. The day became very hot. To help out the marchers, people who lived along the route put out cups of water and, in the city, friendly onlookers.

The Waitress Blues

By JEFF HERRIN ’83 and JOHN KROTCHKO ’83

The waitress is never coming back. With mid-winter blues and mud-winter weather comes this third certainty. Screaming out of the flexible continuum and into our fate. Such is the experience of a Monday night java junkie, and such experience is ours. Taking such a plain-Jane statement and burdening it with the label of fact requires substantiation — substantiation which we are not prepared to give: the waitress is never coming back.

The wonder of technology, the sprouting silver cylinder takes us, flying yogins all. Legs hooked over the leading edge, we hurtle away at breakneck speed. Legs edged over the leading hooker, we brake back at turtleneck speed. Going and coming, defying Zeno and delighting in volition, we revel in the absence virgule abstinence of the waitress. Meanwhile, back at the bench, we do a number on Godel while Pascal blazes. As well he might, as he would be quick to point out.

For example (e.g., i.e.), take the Par Three (3), well-known local hotspot and den of vicissitude. Three pool tables, twelve feet of bartop, one jukebox, and no waitress. She never returned. And look at Davidson College Grey Union Café: ice cream, pizzas, video games — a regular Chuck E. Cheese’s. Half a dozen people milling around in regulation Eating Service attire, and no waitress. She never returned.

These two situations, counterexamples to the inverse of my original statement, by modus ponens indicate, ceteris paribus, post hoc ergo propter hoc fallacies notwithstanding, an a posteriori banishment of our waitress.

“Napkins, please, can we have some?” No response, the inquiry echoes in the hollow vacuity that was a waitress. The orange library dots are inconsequential. Some, in fact, are red. We climbed up there once, pushing up half a dozen fire-resistant panels. The orbs,If they conceal our waitress, conceal her well. “The resulting shift in verisimilitude led to a less than satoric state. Perhaps escape into contiguously fitted garb is realizable — you know, altered suits.” We don’t buy this hypothesis for an instant. Reeks of garlic. “Waitress, get your dharma in gear and over here!” springing full-grown from Zeus’ mouth. The sprouting silver cylinder, by now a recurring theme, hearkens back to the black-and-white newsreels of early forties movie houses, wherein all the world was a silver scream. And no waitress to speak of, so to speak. (To turn a friendly phrase.) Swampboat (Devil Dog, Orphan, Guest Editor, Features Editor, Etc.) despairs for an answer. He languishes on the snow throughout most every crisis. Dead or not, he has a point: if looking doesn’t help, then why bother? We can accept this attitude, as we are lazy. Laziness not to be construed as unconcern, we should (and do) hasten to add. For wherein lies our social awareness, if it not be posited in a concern for a lackadaisical waitress? Rhetoric in our face, we respond to the activist call with no little peevishness. The terms of the contract look dubious from both ends of the polarities involved. Whether or not Krishna is a Big Blue Meanie has little to do with the weighty dregs of political caucusing that waft in and out of Her- y.. poured buckets of water from their apartment windows, creating a cooling shower. We hear lots of humorous cheers and slogans, such as “Freies Bier statt Atomwaffen!” (“Free Beer Instead of Atomic Weapons!”). This festive atmosphere was dampened when the radio announced that a man had purposely set himself on fire and was severely burned. The students around us commented how absurd this act was, and then slowly the mood returned to normal. By the time we arrived at the central point of the demonstration it was 3 p.m., and we were so hot and tired that we just listened to the speeches and drank our mineral water. The speeches condemned the arms race in general, and specifically asked the NATO countries not to deploy Pershing missiles in West Germany. The 300,000 people applauded when appropriate and played with a huge earth ball which bounced among the sprawling crowd. After about an hour of this, we had to head back to our bus. Along the way, I saw a German policeman giving directions to a couple of rather radical-looking students. Looking at that encounter, I realized that the Germans truly wanted a peaceful answer to the thorny difference of opinions revolving around the nuclear arms issue. Herschel’s feeble, hash-saturated consciousness. It is somewhat apparent in such cases of fizzling ideologies about to topple that the demagogic propagation of multiple fissionable shibboleths compares only meekly with the limited psychosexual foresight of xenophobic situation objectors. This brings us around once again to the increasingly tiring realization that the absentia of the working class is not a unibimocal phenomenon, occurring only in vacuums such that tenuously exist in the wishfully hypertrophic analyses of the bourgeoisie. “Kalumptszce-tza,” as certain debatably Hungarian locals claiming that ethnocentric status proclaim (Zsi-Zsi, 1978), tends to embrace that all-encompassingly formidable axiom that aspires to hallmark the evolution of our culture: genetic Marxism. Yea, even here in America. Herschel’s feelings do not change, nor do ours, even as the surrounding pathos of the vaporous blue-collar persona continues to engulf us as if we were prehistoric beasts, engaged in mortal combat whilst the tar pits drag us into an inexorable petrochemical fate (La Brea, Calif., 30,000 B.C.). A solemn note to ponder, this, not tempered in the least by the transitory gratification of “no tips.” Above it all, the Blue One dances away the ages. To paraphrase a recent socio-political drama, “On Highway 57 . . . Pump Boys . . . and Dinettes.” But where, after all, is that? Rhetoric in our face again, we take our leave, leave our bill, and head for home. Jeff Herrin and John Krotchko are Features Editors Emeriti, a condition that has driven them to live together, alone, in a quiet corner of Duke.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 February 1983