The Davidsonian/Friday, October 21, 1983

11 ~ OPINIONS

A Rational Approach To Gun Control

Dr. Lance Stell

What should a rational, morally reflective person think about the proposal to forbid private ownership of handguns? The National Coalition
To Ban Handguns says that the level of handgun violence in this country is a national scandal which a civilized
people should not tolerate. They assert that significant reductions in the rate of violent deaths would be achieved if the
Congress would prohibit ownership of handguns to private citizens.

On the other side of this issue are those referred to as “the gun lobby” by the national media. Those
who oppose prohibition of private ownership of handguns style themselves protectors of our Second Amendment rights. Thus the term “Gun
Control” is a shibboleth for both camps — a way of sorting people into two categories, those who love death
and darkness and those who love life and light. Disagreement concerns who loves what. From the perspective of the National
Coalition to Ban Handguns, those who oppose gun control are lovers of darkness, people with a remarkable indifference to needless
loss of life. From the perspective of those who oppose prohibition of private ownership of handguns, proponents of such legislation
are viewed as disrespecters of the Constitution, who would deny to the weak and powerless the means to their own
self-defense, who would deny to target-shooters and sportsmen the means to innocent enjoyment.

When I asked at the beginning what a rational, morally sensitive person ought to think about this controversy, what do
I mean? By a rational person, I mean one who thinks that his beliefs about social policy questions should not
be based upon emotion and gut-feelings, but upon evidence, who is determined to be clear-headed and impartial. By a morally
sensitive person I mean one for whom the welfare of others matters, who believes that the needless loss of human
life is bad and that reduction in the rate of such deaths is desirable, but who is also determined not
to pursue desirable ends by wrongful means. Thus I take it that no right-minded person would favor preventive detention laws,
even if there were personality tests which could establish a high correlation between certain personality traits and a tendency toward
violence, because we believe that to do so would not only invite abuse, but also because it comes afoul of
guarantees of personal liberty protected by our Constitution and legal system.

I shall not be coy with you. I do not believe that a rational, morally sensitive person would favor national
legislation which would prohibit private ownership of handguns. Why not? The reason is simple. There is no reason to believe
that increased legal restrictions on private ownership of handguns will cause a reduction in the rate of violent crime. Because
there is no evidence that such legislation would reduce the rate of violent crime, we need not even address the
question whether it is permissible to use such legislation as a means in the pursuit of the desirable ends of
reducing the rate of violent crime.

There have been three generations of studies on the relation between legal restriction of private ownership of handguns and violent
crime. The earliest studies all concluded that no significant relationship exists between firearms laws and crime rates; however, these studies
were rather unsophisticated. They classified states as either having or not having firearms laws, when in fact such laws come
in a variety of forms, e.g., restricted purchase, restricted right to carry, registration, etc., and these studies also did not
control for social conditions. However, in the 1970s, a new generation of studies emerged which were much more sophisticated. These
studies divided states into different classes — permit required to own, permit required to carry, dealer licensing, mandatory waiting periods,
etc. They controlled for the effects on the crime rate of such variables as income level, education, sex, race, age
and urbanization. A 1975 study done by an economist, Douglas Murray, at the University of Wisconsin, took into account all
these social variables and seven forms of handgun laws in an attempt to discover their effect on handgun homicide, suicide,
assault, robbery, and accidental death. Murray found no significant relationship between any one handgun restriction or all of them combined
on the rates for criminal or harmful use. This study was immediately scrutinized and found to contain several flaws. After
pointing out these defects, Matthew DeZee of Florida State University reran the

It is a regrettableFact that Americans are more violence-prone than other people... A study using corrected data and an improved
format. However, DeZee, who himself advocated increased restriction on handgun ownership, found no significant relationship between gun laws and criminal
or harmful use of firearms. Another much more complicated study was conducted by Joseph Magaddino, an economics professor at California
State University at Long Beach. Professor Magaddino devised an elaborate mathematical model which could take account not only of gun
laws and social variables, but the deterrent effect of the probability of arrest and punishment when convicted. He found: 1)
that the probability of arrest has a strong effect on homicide rates; 2) that the probability of imprisonment has a
strong effect on homicide rates but a somewhat lesser effect on assault rates; 3) that the only restriction not already
incorporated into federal law which had some deterrent effect on robbery (but not on assault or homicide) was a ban
on carrying loaded firearms in vehicles.

More recent studies which are even more sophisticated have been completed and not only do they fail to reveal any
positive correlation between gun laws and crime rates, they actually show a negative correlation between gun ownership rates and violence
rates — i.e., that the higher the rate of gun ownership, the lower the violent crime rate. But what of
England and Japan? These countries have violent crime rates very much lower than ours and they also have much more
restrictive laws on firearms ownership. Are these two facts just accidents? Does one seriously want to suggest that there is
no relationship between legal restrictions on gun ownership in these countries and their comparatively low violent crime rates? Well, let’s
look at this contention a bit! England and Japan do a much better job of solving their violent crimes than
we do — 81 percent and 90 percent, as compared to our 45 percent. Also, the English and Japanese kill
each other at a reduced rate — not because they attack each other with less lethal weaponry. Further, although the
assault rate in Japan is one-ninth ours, their murder rate is one-fifth ours. This means that when an assault does
occur in Japan, it is nearly twice as likely to result in killing. It is a regrettable fact that Americans
are more violence-prone than other peoples, but there is no evidence to support the contention that the availability of weaponry
causes Americans to be more violent. Switzerland is also a much less violent society than ours, yet not only is
ownership of firearms widespread, light machine-guns are to be found in many Swiss homes. It is just simple-minded to suggest
that the Swiss are better at resisting the temptation to mow each other down with their readily available machine-guns than
we Americans are with our readily available handguns.

Gun ownership is very widespread in the United States but only 0.02 percent of handguns are involved in a homicide
annually. Also, it is not true to think that the typical American who owns a handgun for self-defense purposes is
a trigger-happy redneck. A study done by two sociologists, David Bordua and Alan Lizotte, found that the segment of the
population with the highest rate of gun ownership for self-protection reasons were single black women living in high-crime urban areas.
If it is reasonable to think that the desires of these women for having the means of self-defense are not
groundless, consider the impact on them of so-called “Saturday Night Special legislation” which would prohibit the manufacture and sale of
“cheap handguns.” How many such women could afford a high-grade Colt pistol which costs several hundred dollars — the effects
of such legislation would be heavily discriminatory against the poor. Besides, career criminals are not known for their use of
cheap tools. Firearms confiscated from them are typically finely-made Colts and Smith and Wessons, not Saturday Night Specials. And needless
to say, the fact that convicted felons are legally forbidden to purchase handguns has little effect on those whose conduct
does not reflect great respect for law.

So what would a rational, morally sensitive person think about gun control? First, since he has good reason to think
that gun laws do not reduce crime rates, he will not advocate them. Second, since he does have evidence that
a high probability for punishment for criminal use of firearms has a deterrent effect, he would favor them. And isn’t
it criminal use of firearms that a rational, morally sensitive person is concerned about?

Stell is an Associate Professor of Philosophy at Davidson College.
