From the Study Room

Quasi-Total Absence succumbs to Herpes

By MARVIN OVERBY ’83

In the end, Quasi-Total Absence lost the Intramural College Bowl Championship at the charity stripe. In Monday night’s 165-150 loss
to Herpes Complex, when the game was on the line, Quasi got the toss-ups but could not convert on the
bonuses.

Herpes had advanced to the finals by a 130-105 victory over the Wrath of the Romulans in the winners’ bracket.
Both teams got off to a slow start, and a low-scoring first half saw Herpes take an 80-70 lead midway
through the game. Outscoring the opposition 50-35 in the second half, Herpes relied on a clutch performance by senior standout
Jeff Dempsey. The Romulans were plagued throughout the game by poor offensive motion, and pop-culture standout John Manson was obviously
off his game.

Quasi-Total Absence advanced to the finals by winning three consecutive losers’ bracket games. In their first game, relying on scoring
from Lee Torrence and Laura Singleton, they withstood a late second-half rally to hold on and defeat Buzz Aldrin. Buzz’s
run was ignited by outstanding play from freshman phenomenon Sara Beasley and a solid performance by sophomore Jeff McEwen. It
took a clutch answer by John Odell in the last 30 seconds of play to ice the game for Quasi.

Startled by their near loss, Quasi looked quite shaken as they began their losers’ bracket semi-finals game against Going Go
a Go-Go. A bad interrupt by Torrence and a general lackadaisical mood resulted in Go-Go taking an early 40-5 lead.
Midway through the first half, however, Quasi regained its confidence and the game was as good as over. Despite an
outstanding personal performance by Ann “The Meteor” Meador, Quasi took a 105-60 lead into the half and never looked back.
Able to control the board at will in the second half, Quasi worked its fast break to perfection and outscored
the shell-shocked sophomores 120-30. Final score: 225-100.

Then came the finals of the losers’ bracket pitting the 6-1 Romulans against the 7-2 Quasi. The opportunity to avenge
an earlier loss to Herpes was on the line for both teams and the fireworks began. The first half was
fiercely contested. Led by literary expert Lee Torrence, the seniors opened up an early lead. But then the Romulans turned
it on. Chris Blake scored on three consecutive toss-ups and pulled the Romulans back into the game. At the half,
Quasi had a narrow 40-point lead, 130-90. Unfortunately, the Romulans never made it out of the locker room for the
second half; or at least they would have been better off if they hadn’t. The second half — as it
has been all year long — belonged to Quasi. In perhaps the best half played by any team this season,
Quasi racked up 170 points and held the offensively potent Romulans to -5. This game was the fourth time this
season that Quasi had scored 300 points or more and the only time the Romulans had been held scoreless in
a half.

The Finals

Quasi’s victory in the losers’ bracket set up...the perfect finals game. The contest pitted the two most offensively minded teams
in the league against each other. Seven of the eight players were seniors, playing their last College Bowl game. And
there was a grudge. Herpes, in its best game of the season, had humiliated Quasi 320-145 the week before. As
Quasi captain John Odell bravely, albeit recklessly, proclaimed: “I want Herpes!” The first half was exceptionally close and the lead
see-sawed back and forth. Behind balanced scoring by Torrence, Odell, and Singleton, Quasi scored 90 and took a 15-point lead
into the half. Then, in the second half, the jinx set in. You could see it happening — each side
grimacing as the other failed to answer bonus questions that it knew. And that was where the game was won
— or lost. Led by Singleton’s four, Torrence’s three, and John Odell’s two, Quasi answered more toss-ups, but Herpes got
the second half bonus points and won 165-150. The winners were led by Jeff Dempsey’s four toss-ups. Jeff Herrin and
John Lusk each answered two.

Tryouts
With the completion of the 1982-83 tournament, Coach Hans Epes is now thinking about the future. According to Epes, the
Intercollegiate Cats will be drafting some 8-12 underclassmen and inviting them to try out for the two openings on next
year’s varsity team. Epes indicated that draft notices are “in the mail” and that tryouts will begin Monday, January 17
at 7 p.m. in the Union. Final cuts are expected by the end of next week.

Rumors
Inside sources tell this reporter that the next construction at Davidson may not be a new gym or a remodeled
Morehead Medical Center arts center but rather the long-awaited College Bowl dormitory. Reportedly to be called Epp’s Palace, the multi-million
dollar project is said to be high on lame-duck President Spencer’s list of last-minute things to get done. Initial plans
for the complex call for a thumb Nautilus, a special training table, and a location off-campus to protect the student
body from a repeat of the team’s post-training rules melee... Study Room has also learned that two-year starter Brad Mullis,
who had earlier announced his intentions to declare hardship and become a panelist on “Hollywood Squares,” may be considering remaining
at Davidson and not forgoing his remaining two years of eligibility... Finally, the College Bowl community was shocked this week
to learn that Johnny “Disco” Edwards, the winningest coach in intramural history, is retiring. Edwards, who coached many legendary Guttersnipe
and Plénk teams in his four-year career, always attributed his success to his ability to conquer last. Sources close to
Edwards indicate his retirement springs from a belief that later this year he will graduate.

Next week: “Hurricane Bob” Manning: Myth or what?

Licensed OB-GYN Specialist
Worried About Being Pregnant? We Care.
Free Pregnancy Testing Daily (No appointment necessary)
For Answers And Action On
Abortion
1351 Durwood Drive, Charlotte, NC 28204
Hours 8 - 6 Mon. - Fri., 7 - 3 Sat.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 January 1983
