‘Music from Abroad

Lasar Gosman directs Emigre Orchestra

By STEPHANIE J. BRUCK ’84

Under the leadership of Lazar Gosman, the Soviet Emigre Orchestra gave Davidson its third installment in the 1982-83 Artists Series.
This unusual group, the only chamber orchestra of its size and international caliber in the United States, includes Soviet emigre
musicians from the Moscow and Leningrad Philharmonics and Chamber Orchestras, the Bolshoi and Kirov Theaters, joined with outstanding American musicians.
In their 1979 debut season, they performed at Carnegie Hall, Lincoln Center, Philadelphia, Princeton, and Washington, D.C. A year later
they founded the Ticonderoga Music Festival, where the Orchestra returns each summer. Having toured the Midwest, the Northeast, and the
South, the Orchestra leaves Davidson for a Latin American tour, followed by Canada and California before returning to New York.

Hey Balloon Baby —
let's aire
— Light-bulk

Happy Valentine’s Day
Allen!
I Love You!

Molly

Student: Part-time job

Junior or Senior needed to do reading, filing, gathering, and writing for a research project in special education. No experience
necessary, only solid research skills and writing ability. Call Mrs. Smith 372-4188

On Wednesday night in Love Auditorium (the name of which greatly amused Mr. Gosman), without tuning on stage, the Orchestra
brightly launched into Mozart’s “Eine Kleine Nachtmusik.” Their attack was crisp, with the parts entering and closing effortlessly. They play
this perennial favorite at most of their concerts, and the polish shows. A twentieth-century piece, Shostakovich’s “Sinfonietta,” followed. The composer
combined an autobiographical and a political statement in this piece “in memory of victims of fascism and war,” an emotion-laden
memory of Stalin’s reign of terror. At certain points in this complex musical odyssey, one felt that a conductor might
have aided the 17-member string ensemble in heightening and sharpening the composition, but the orchestra nonetheless wove a fascinating rendition
of this dramatic piece.

After an intermission, we returned to Tchaikovsky. The Orchestra sparkled through the “Russian Dance” from “Swan Lake” arranged by Mr.
Gosman. The final piece was Tchaikovsky’s “Serenade for Strings in C.” This is a big piece, and those seventeen strings
sounded big. They didn’t just produce volume, however; a rich subtlety permeated the performance, and when softness was called for,
the strings whispered. In fact, throughout the evening, a most striking aspect was the Orchestra’s attention to dynamics. The volume
changes were as precise and well-observed as the attacks and entrances. There were two brief encores: Prokofiev’s “Morning Serenade” from
Romeo and Juliet, a light, tripping piece; and the fast “Spanish Dance” of Shostakovich.

As concertmaster during performances, Mr. Gosman displays his virtuosity on the violin. The quality of Wednesday’s performance and the growing
eminence of the Soviet Emigre Orchestra attest to Gosman’s skill as Musical Director.

101 North Main Street

TRADITIONAL AND CLASSIC CLOTHING

Casually Waiting for Spring

in Separates from Davidson Dry Goods...

pictured on the campus of Davidson College | to r:

C. Melton in Gabrielle knit top $25 and denim mini $36

M. Nix in Shrader Sport knit top $36 and knit bottom $38

M. Edward in Esprit sweat shirt $27 and pleated twill pant $36

J. Poole in PBJ knit top $28 and cotton/poly skirt $32

10% student discount with Davidson ID
Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Telephone 704/892-8156

22 THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 February 1983
