Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

There is a high incentive for each to launch a nuclear attack before their arms are destroyed by the other
side. Far from providing a deterrent from nuclear war, the MX and similar Soviet weapons would provide a greater likelihood
of nuclear war.

The freeze would in no way endanger our security. Despite claims by the Reagan administration that the Soviets have nuclear
superiority and that the MX will “put us ahead” and give us a “bargaining chip” in arms control talks, the
U.S. Department of Defense Annual Report for fiscal year 1982 states that the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. are “roughly equal
in strategic nuclear power.” All authorities, private and governmental, agree that each side can annihilate the other, no matter who
attacks first (Center for Defense Information).

In response to the public’s rising awareness of the dangers of the arms race, President Reagan has grabbed the flag
in one hand and the Reader’s Digest in the other hand, and said that the freeze movement ultimately originates with
the Soviet Union. Those involved in working for the freeze, Reagan contends (citing an article in Reader’s Digest as proof),
are sincere but gullible people who are dupes of the Communists. The “sincere but gullible” charge has been echoed by
9th district representative and former Davidson professor Jim Martin, and recently by Charlotte Observer editor Rich Oppel.

Is a freeze really a workable idea? Who are these people who support the peace race? And to what extent
can students be active in the peace movement?

A single U.S. Navy Poseidon submarine carries enough destructive power to devastate every city in the Soviet Union, and this
represents only 2 percent of the U.S. force (Department of State Publication No. 8947). In 1964, Secretary of Defense McNamara
testified that 400 nuclear weapons would be sufficient to destroy the Soviet Union as a functioning society—we now have 30,000
nuclear weapons and the Reagan administration plans to produce 17,000 additional nuclear weapons in the 80’s.

Enough is enough. Although Reagan uses his best Hollywood “Win One for the Gipper” expression to urge us on to
“close our window of vulnerability” (and if that metaphor doesn’t make sense to you, how about the renaming of the
MX as the “Peacekeeper”?), it is clear that the only shortage is a shortage of targets. Perhaps someday we'll be
able to have a nuclear weapon for each citizen in the Soviet Union.

As the adjacent chart indicates, the combined nuclear explosive power of the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. equals 18 trillion tons,
or the equivalent of 1 ½ million Hiroshima-sized bombs, or the firepower of 6,000 World War IIs. Put another way,
that’s 4 tons of TNT for every man, woman, and child now living.

If the arms race continues, we can anticipate either another Cuban missile crisis (and this time the Soviets won’t “blink”)
or an undetected computer malfunction that will place us into an “accidental” nuclear war (the infamous malfunction of a 46-cent
computer chip put the U.S. on alert twice recently). Let’s hope it doesn’t take a nuclear war to rid the
Reagan administration and the military-industrial-business-academic complex of the idea that a nuclear war is “winnable.”

The cost of the arms race is devastating to our economy. In the next 5 years, arms spending will cost
taxpayers over $1.6 trillion dollars, or a cost of $20,000 to the average family of four people. It is a
sign of the pathological state of our society when people favor the MX and cruise missiles because they will bring
jobs. Like the drug addict, we want a fix, no matter what the cost. In fact, as U.S. Department of
Labor statistics show, military spending provides fewer jobs per billion dollars of expenditures than any form of spending.

Jobs and peace are possible, if we change our ways of thinking.

SANE Head Teaches Here

By FRED BROADWELL ‘83

Dr. Norris Frederick, visiting lecturer in Philosophy this term, is deeply involved in the debate surrounding the nuclear arms race.
Frederick, a 1970 Davidson graduate and professor at UNC-C, got his first taste of politics at Davidson during the anti-war
demonstrations. He is currently the Coordinator of North Carolina Council of SANE, a nationwide group which strongly supports the Nuclear
Freeze. Dr. Frederick’s major responsibility is to establish liaison between the different peace groups in cities across the state. He
also gives speeches, writes articles and advertisements, and helps local chapters with organizational problems. Frederick, who sees the arms race
as more of a moral issue than a political one, does not believe that the issue should be defined in
terms of liberal or conservative sides. He comments that since the arms buildup “is destroying the economy” as well as
endangering the planet, “conservatives who talk fiscal responsibility should support the Freeze.” He finds it amusing that some U.S. business
executives who support the Freeze are being labeled “liberals” or “soft on communism.”

Frederick is very happy to be back at Davidson as a teacher. “The students here are still interested in learning
for learning’s sake,” he says. He does not think that the school has changed much in the last ten years.
“Getting a job seems to be a bigger concern than social issues,” he says, but “students still voice their political
concerns.” Asked how he integrates his political views into his teaching, he responds that pushing social issues is not a
vital function of his teaching. “Of course, I am very willing to talk to students about the arms race,” he
adds.

Frederick’s other interests include distance running, playing tennis and writing fiction. A member of the Charlotte Writers’ Club, he is
currently working on a book about parenting. At home in the business world, too, he works for a Charlotte consulting
firm, specializing in public relations and management skills.

By Anderson Cent ‘70.
