14 Friday, March 18, 1983 The Davidsonian

Hattie’s Remembered
‘A shack with torn vinyl booths and a juke box’
By ERIC LONG & KIRSTEN MCDONALD

It wasn’t hard to predict that this morning half the campus would sleep through classes or that some of the
more devoted individuals would still be snoozing as you read this. After all, last night was Hattie’s Night, the biggest
blowout the Davidson campus throws all year. Fannie & Mable’s has taken on the responsibility of throwing the yearly beer
bash ever since Hattie’s burned down in the spring of 1975.

Last night twenty kegs of Coors were ordered. Last year the party consumed only fifteen kegs, so this year’s F
& M social chairpersons, Jeff Holland and Muffin Alford, figured twenty would be plenty. In fact, twenty kegs of beer
is more than enough when you figure it converts to 310 gallons, or approximately a quart for every student enrolled.

F & M bears the largest financial burden of the party. This year F & M paid for nine kegs,
while the rest of the eating houses and fraternities contributed one or two kegs. The collective willingness of Patterson Court
to support Hattie’s Night stems from an old Davidson tradition of which very few students know.

Hattie Morgan, a resident of Mooresville, established a bar and grill near the Korner Tavern, back in 1946, and because
the campus was dry back in those days, students soon flocked to Hattie’s for chow and cold beer. “We had
about all the college students out there — about all the students that drank beer, that is,” said Hattie Morgan.
From the beginning she thought the place would be popular. “We bought the land there and wanted to build some
kind of business on it. That’s how it got started.”

According to Dean of Students Will Terry, Hattie’s was “a shack with torn vinyl booths and a juke box. It
had two sections. One was kind of like a restaurant and the other served beer.” In spite of this rather
ascetic decor, Hattie’s was an immense success. Thursday nights were the most popular out there, especially the Thursday before Midwinters.
Various clubs chose Hattie’s as their meeting spot. Most notable of these clubs was the Who’s Nothing Club, whatever that
signifies.

Since Hattie’s was a hangout for all types of students, the campus mourned when Hattie’s burned to the ground on
April 27, 1975. The rest of the campus willingly agreed to help when F & M suggested honoring Hattie’s with
a beer bash. Thursday nights at Hattie’s were a weekly ritual, which is why Hattie’s Night has always been on
a Thursday.

Hattie’s Night in 1981 ended with a bang. Robbie Shackleford, a local juvenile, shot Joe Leman, a Davidson student. The
argument that caused the shooting was initiated by locals throwing beer on each other and on bystanders, said senior Kevin
Attar, who witnessed the event. The shot was not fatal, however, and Leman recovered quickly.

The shooting made the administration a bit nervous about the event. Dean Terry, along with the F & M officers,
agreed that in the future Hattie’s would not be held on the first week back. The date of the party
was also kept secret until immediately beforehand in order to keep the party relatively small. Past social chairpersons of F
& M Pam Rew and Dunbar Ivy, commented that “the crowd is usually calm and there has never been any
trouble, except for the shooting.”

F & M takes precautions to assure that the house is not damaged; they move all the furniture downstairs, and
they cover the upstairs with plastic. Also, F & M always hires a policeman to take care of any trouble.Spots

Hello and welcome once again to The Book of Truth and Wisdom, aka the Booze Brothers! This week BB welcomes
everyone back for Spring Term with a look at the hot party spots both on and off campus. This should
be really fun and informative, so let’s get down to it!

As almost everyone knows, those erstwhile partiers of Kappa Alpha had the Drifters at the house last week. However, when
the final votes were tallied, the party drew mixed reviews. Good point: free beer. Bad point: Shagging and the Drifters.
The scene over at the Hoddy House was little better. Good thing: no KAs. Bad point: BYOB and all the
hair which Throbber shed on the floor.

BB was mystified by the E’s band. Climaxx had been billed as “The South's Hottest Band,” so BB went to
the party engorged with excitement. Noting that the band had all the tools necessary to put on a great performance,
our anticipation continued to swell. However, after the beginning of the show, our expectations seemed a bit premature, leaving BB
limp with a general feeling of dissatisfaction.

The Fabulous Knobs at the Pika house turned out to be the best band of the week. However, the pseudo-athletes
blew it with the beer situation, which was one keg at a time, helpfully monitored by the good guys of
Phi Delta Theta. The partying inexperience of the Pikes showed as they fumbled their first open party of the year.
These guys should stick to tossing around a football.

Now BB considers the 900 Room, or the 30 Squared Room as Keith “Broadway Joe” Martin would put it. This
is the only place on campus with a portrait of Bill Swift on the wall. See-Saw’s party closet has been
fun only 3 times this year: 1) REM; 2) the night Killer Kazee, Beachball Slagle, and Sterling Martin played quarters
with Andrea Geyer and Mary Legerton; and 3) when Earnie Andrews mooned the SPEs. They should’ve pinned a medal on
the guy instead of making him apologize.

Off-campus party spots have really cooled down in recent months. For example, one observer once noted that “the Fijis have
more drug dealers than Bogota,” but this is no longer the case. New President Tom Hissam has introduced sweeping reforms,
banning alcohol and drug use at the Fiji house. Young Fijis are also encouraged to run for SGA, apply for
hall counselor, and generally hang around Dean Terry’s office.

The situation is similar with the SPEs. Ever since the Chairman of the Board party last year blew the Sig
Ep social budget for decades to come, the SPEs have had to make do with Champagne Pajama Parties. Some SPEs
seem to approve of the change. Slug Lincoln suggests that for fun, people should call the SPE house and listen
to the way their pledges answer the phone. “It’s a damn riot,” he claims.

Well, folks, that’s it for another week with the Booze Brothers. Join us again next week when we take a
look at BB’s mailbag. Should be interesting. Till then, keep your hand on your beer and your mind in the
clouds!

The UNCC ICC Center for International Studies invites students, professionals, and community members to SUMMER EXPLORATIONS in:

- Mexico (H.D.L.) $794.50 May 10-24
- Australia/N. Zealand $2946 July 18-Aug 8
- Canada (Architecture) $362 May 7-24
- England (Foreign Language) $1564 June 11-July 2
- England (Foreign Language) $838 July 4-Aug 14
- Germany (F. Lang. & Geog.) $1300 Jul 15-Aug 15
- Spain (Religious Studies) $1625 June 7-22

These programs may be taken for academic credit. Prices are approximate and generally include round-trip airfare from New York, lodging,
breakfast, ground transportation, and UNCC tuition. Please inquire about extras.

For more information, contact: The Center for International Studies, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, UNCC Station, Charlotte NC, 28223,
Telephone (704) 597-2407.
