Friday, December 7, 1983 / The Davidsonian

OPINIONS

Quantitative Values And Qualitative Concepts
Dr. Hernandez-Chiroldes

One of the most pervasive characteristics of modern industrialized societies is the confusion between quantitative and qualitative values. Due to this perverse tendency, for example, the qualitative concept of a “good book” is transformed into a quantitative value: a “best seller.” A similar confusion has occurred with the concept of “minority” in the U.S. The original and correct meaning of the word minority has evolved to mean “a group of lesser people,” a qualitative concept. This metamorphosis has produced various attitudes, ranging from arrogant racism and paternalistic condescendence to benign neglect. In the international arena, a similar phenomenon exists; some people seem to believe that citizens of countries which are not economically developed are also humanly underdeveloped. In other words, since they have less (quantitative value), they are less (qualitative concept). Some people in industrialized countries act as if they believed that citizens of poor countries neither deserve nor want the freedoms, the civil liberties, and the human rights that the affluent citizen scrupulously demands for himself.

In a recent article in the Nov. 4 Davidsonian, Dr. Brian Shaw praises the very well-organized propaganda of the Nicaraguan regime exhibited during several weeks in the College Union’s lobby gallery. Few of the comments of Dr. Shaw deserve to be answered. In this article, I intend to do so.

Dr. Shaw states categorically: “The consequence of these measures... is overwhelming popular support of the Sandinista government.” I assume that the “popular support” to which Dr. Shaw refers exists in Nicaragua and not just among the organizers of the propaganda exhibit. If it is so, some pertinent questions are these: where and when have the people of Nicaragua expressed their will in secret, democratic, and free elections? Is it that Dr. Shaw possesses a magic crystal ball that permits him to look inside the consciences of the much-battered Nicaraguans?

Another of Dr. Shaw’s statements is: “In addition to economic sanctions and increasingly bellicose verbal abuse by the United States, the Nicaraguans suffer almost daily terrorist attacks by bands of former Somoza national guardsmen. These counterrevolutionaries, contras, cross over into Nicaragua from their sanctuaries in Costa Rica and Honduras to pillage, murder, and rape.” These descriptions coincide with the slogans of the Nicaraguan regime (all enemies of the government are bad guys — “former Somoza national guardsmen,” who are dedicated to evil activities, such as “to pillage, murder, and rape”). These ideas are as good and effective slogans as those of a dictatorship should be: simplistic, neat, and false.

A serious attempt to find out who the people are fighting against the Sandinistas will give us a different picture than the one presented to us by Dr. Shaw. There are three main organizations and several smaller groups involved in the struggle. On the border with Costa Rica operates the Alianza Revolucionaria Democratica (ARDE). The two-man leaders of this organization are Edén Pastora and Alfonso Robelo. Pastora, the legendary Comandante Cero, was the most popular guerrilla leader in the war against Somoza. Comandante Cero’s daring acts caught international attention when he captured many important members of the Somoza government who were attending a party. Robelo was one of the five members of the Revolutionary Junta that ruled Nicaragua after the defeat of Somoza. So, these people were not “Somocistas” as stated by Dr. Shaw.

A second group, Unión Democratica Nicaragüense (UDN), fighting in the north of the country, is under the leadership of Fernando Chamorro Cardenal, known as “El negro Chamorro.” This gentleman, already baptized as “a member of the Somoza national guard” by Dr. Shaw, was a revolutionary who, armed with a bazooka, attacked Somoza’s bunker. Later on, he was an important member of the Sandinista government. El negro Chamorro was not “a member of the Somoza national guard.”

Another group fighting the regime of Managua is La Organización Indigena Misurasata, formed by an alliance of three Indian nations: Miskitos, Sumos, and Ramas. These native Americans and their leaders, Brooklyn Rivera and Steadman Fagoth, were not “members of the Somoza national guard.” These are simple Nicaraguans who take exception to the measures of the Sandinista regime which tend to eradicate all the independence and the freedom of these people. There is only one group, Fuerza Democratica Nicaragüense (FDN), in which the Somocistas have an active participation. But even the FDN is headed by a former leader of the underground forces against Somoza, Adolfo Calero. So the characterization of these fighters as rapists, murderers, and pillagers is misleading.

The first Sandinista government was an alliance of democratic forces, Marxist elements who had definite totalitarian inclinations, and other civic and religious groups. They promised to establish a democratic, pluralistic society.Looters from Somoza’s national guard is very close to the line of propaganda of the Nicaraguan Junta, but is far from the truth. The Sandinistas came to power after most of the people of Nicaragua united in the struggle against the repressive and rapacious government of Anastasio Somoza. One event greatly contributed to the final defeat of the dictatorship: the most prestigious journalist of Nicaragua, and a pertinacious critic of the government, Pedro Joaquin Chamorro, was assassinated, presumably by persons close to Somoza. The first Sandinista government was an alliance of democratic forces, Marxist elements who had definite totalitarian inclinations, and other civic and religious groups. They promised to establish a democratic, pluralistic, and just society. Elections were to be held in two years, freedoms were to be respected, happiness and prosperity were to be achieved. However, the results were different; after ten months in power, two of the five members of the ruling Junta, those who were not Marxists, Violeta Chamorro, the widow of the assassinated journalist, and Alfonso Robelo had to resign because of the increasingly repressive nature of the regime. The real power remained in the hands of the “nueve comandantes” (the nine commanders), whose two principal virtues are self-confessed Marxism and trust from their mentor, Fidel Castro. Elections were forgotten following the example of Cuba, where Castro declared in 1961: “¿Elecciones para qué?” (“Elections, what for?”) and proceeded to eliminate democratic elections for almost 25 years. Nicaragua got rid of Somoza only to fall under the rule of nine “pocket somocitas.”

In Nicaragua, freedom of the press was reduced to the heroic attempts of La Prensa to survive. This newspaper was published and directed by the murdered journalist, Pedro Joaquin Chamorro. La Prensa has been continuously harassed and censored by the Sandinistas. More than thirty times the paper has not been published because almost all its material had been censored. The Sandinista government has not allowed the people of Nicaragua to read articles which include: on Oct. 21, 1983, an editorial of the paper was completely censored because it contained a quotation from its founder, Pedro Joaquin Chamorro, which said: “Sin libertad de prensa, no hay libertad” (“Without freedom of the press, there is no liberty”); on Oct. 5 and 6, 1983, La Prensa was not published because the Sandinista censors did not permit an article in which the paper defended itself from an accusation of being “traitors” to Nicaragua; on Nov. 3, 1983, the paper was not published because 90 percent of it had been censored by the government.

There are many other actions in which the Nicaraguan regime has shown its totalitarian vocation. These are just a few of them: When Pope John Paul II visited Managua, the Sandinistas prevented the huge masses of people from getting near the Pope (this is made clear in a very revealing documentary from a Venezuelan TV station). Maybe they were afraid of the “revolutionary” words of the Pontiff. José Esteban Gonzalez was the President of the “Comité de Derechos Humanos Nicaragüense” (Nicaraguan Human Rights Committee) during the Somoza regime. For his criticism of the government and for his defense of political prisoners, he was attacked by the dictator. Today Gonzalez is exiled in Costa Rica; the Sandinistas thought his committee to defend human rights was a “counterrevolutionary” organization.

I cannot support the Nicaraguan regime because I would become an ally of the censors. I would be supporting the jailers of Sakharov, the guards of the Russian gulags, the torturers of Armando Valladares, and Jorge Vals. I would be helping the Tomas Borges and Ramiro Valdés of this world. I would be contributing to the cause of those people who tortured me psychologically and physically when I was a young man of 18 in Cuba. The Sandinista regime refused to condemn, in the United Nations, the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan; they refused to condemn the Russian attack on the Korean plane. I refuse to support that kind of people. “The cause of Lenin is alive and winning” in many places; but the people of Latin America have the right to live in a just, prosperous society. I would be very pretentious to believe that these human beings would not like to enjoy the same freedoms and rights that Dr. Shaw and I enjoy in this country. If we want for the United States a Sandinista-type society, we should begin to find a good censor to review what is published and broadcast in the U.S. mass media, including The Davidsenian. If we do not accept it for us, why should we condemn the people of other nations to give away their rights? Do we feel, by any chance, superior to them?

Dr. Hernández-Chiroldes is an Associate Professor of Spanish.