The Duke pensively awaits all manner of

criminal problems.
Cowboy Classics

Rio Bravo (1959) Produced and directed by Howard
Hawks. Screenplay by Jules Furhman and Leigh
Brackett. From the short story by B.H. Campbell.
Musical score by Dimitri Tiomkin. Starring John
Wayne, Dean Martin, Ricky Nelson (!), Angie
Dickinson, Walter Brennan, Ward Bond, John Rus-
sell, Claude Akins, and Bob Steele. 141 min.
Showing: Friday 28 January at 8:00 and Saturday
the 29th at 3:00. Admission is $1.50. Rating: ***½

My Darling Clementine (1946) Produced and di-
rected by John Ford. Starring Henry Fonda, Linda
Darnell, Victor Mature, Walter Brennan, Tim
Holt, Ward Bond, Alan Mowbray, and John Ire-
land. 97 min. Showing: Tuesday 1 February at
7:30 in Perkins Auditorium. Admission: free
(what a deal!) Rating: ***¾

About halfway through Rio Bravo, John
Wayne tells one of his deputies, “That kid is so
good he doesn’t have to prove it.” Well said, Mr.
Wayne, for the same could be said about two of
the finest directors to come from our country,
Howard Hawks and John Ford. Between the two
of them, Hawks and Ford created some of the
most memorable movies of all time. Films like
Stagecoach, She Wore a Yellow Ribbon, The
Quiet Man (Ford), Scarface, The Big Sleep, and
The Thing (Hawks) will live forever in shows
such as That’s Entertainment. Delving into the
human experience, these directors sidestepped
routine filmmaking and incorporated themes such
as brotherhood, compassion, and individualism
in their films. Rio Bravo and My Darling Cle-
mentine appear this week, and both make these
themes essential parts of the films. I can’t recom-
mend them enough.

Rio Bravo is a perfectly realized film. With
surprisingly little action throughout its 141-minute
running time, the action that does occur is brutal
and violently effective. Hawks concentrates on
the humanism and local color of an old West Nev-
ada town without exploiting the violence, and
some marvelous character actors support him.
John Wayne plays the sheriff (a pinnacle in the
Duke’s career) who has locked up murderer Jim
Berdette (Claude Akins, nastier than ever) much
to the annoyance of the Berdette gang. Wayne
must fight off the Berdettes’ escape plans with
only a drunken partner (Dean Martin — surpris-
ingly good), a “kid” (Ricky Nelson — ugh!), a fe-
isty old man (Walter Brennan, business as usual),
and a gorgeous girl with a shady past (Angie
Dickinson, in her earlier, lovelier days) on his
side. There’s plenty of insight and character reve-
lation along the way (as well as some typically
blatant Hawks sexual innuendos), all building to a
rousing climax. At the time of its 1959 release,
critics deemed Rio Bravo too long. The movie’s
length is crucial, however, to guarantee our com-
plete understanding of the people involved, and
this thorough character development makes Rio
Bravo a wonderful film. By the end, we really
care about this offbeat assortment of gunslingin’
good guys.

My Darling Clementine, the John Ford film,
is more a mood piece than Rio Bravo, and the ef-
fect is beautiful. Against the background of the
OK Corral, Ford employs the elegance of under-
statement to create a study in underplay and low-
keyed techniques. Like Hawks, Ford doesn’t
hand you insight. You must seek it in what he im-
plies. Henry Fonda is excellent as Wyatt Earp, but
Victor Mature, of all people, is even better in his
portrayal of Doc Holliday. Not a predictable
western but a rich character study, My Darling
Clementine is an American classic and a film not
to miss.

Reviews with Morris the Matt —

I, the Jury

Witness for the Prosecution (1959) Produced and
Directed by Billy Wilder. Screenplay by Charles
Brackett and some uncredited touches by I.A.L.
Diamond. Starring Marlene Dietrich, Tyrone
Power, Charles Laughton, Elsa Lanchester, John
Williams, Henry Daniell, and Una O’Connor.
114 min. Showing: this Wednesday at 8:00. Ad-
mission is $1.50. Rating: ****

Another genius of the cinema, Billy Wilder,
steps into the limelight this week with his clever,
effective Witness for the Prosecution. Perhaps the
strongest courtroom drama ever made, Witness
keeps the viewer’s interest thanks to a bristling
script that takes some incredible twists and an en-
semble of actors that at times astonishes. Many at
Davidson may remember the Wilder style in his
modern-day comedy Some Like it Hot, which was
shown here a few years back. Everything he did
with comedy in that film Wilder does with melo-
drama in Witness for the Prosecution. He pulls
some great (if at times hammy) performances out
of usually bland actors like Tyrone Power and
Marlene Dietrich, and Charles Laughton peaks as
the determined defense attorney. The twist-o-ra-
ma ending should leave you gasping. See this
film. I promise you’ll be entertained.
P.S. A warning at the end of Witness instructs the
viewer not to reveal the film’s bizarre conclusion.
Violators of this procedure will be forced to watch
The Sound of Music 27 times. Now that’s punish-
ment.

10 THE DAVIDSONIAN/28 January 1983

RATINGS SYSTEM:

**** Classic; a must-see movie.

***¾ Very good; well worth it.

*** Good; no masterpiece but a fine show.

**¾ Mixed bag; some good, some bad.

** Ugh! Pretty bad, but could have been
worse.

*½ Total trash; don’t bother.

X Miss this film at all cost, or better yet catch
a revival showing of “Attack of the Killer Toma-
toes.”

It’s dusty, but I call this place home.
