The Davidsonian / Friday, April 22, 1983

ATC to Allocate Next Year’s Budget

By DAN VOORHIS

The Activities Tax Council will consider requests and allocate funding for various student organizations next week. The ATC will receive $50 per student from the activities tax included in tuition. Estimating 1300 students, the Business Office budgets $65,000 for the total Activities Fund.

Major cost overruns from many campus organizations forced a $5 activities tax increase for 1983-84. Last year the ATC received $59,400 from students but paid out $66,000 with an emergency fund providing the remainder. Increased need for money plus the addition of two more groups, Amnesty International and the Y-Student Service Corps dictated the increase.

Hobart Park editors Scot Myers and Suzanne Dickey will ask for $6000, the largest increase in a request for ATC funding and a 100 percent increase over last year. Myers feels that the College literary magazine needs and deserves a drastic increase. “Hobart Park is the students’ only creative outlet,” said Myers, “but we're operating now pretty much at rock bottom. We don’t even have money for a post-office box.” The money would be used to produce three rather than two issues per year and improve the technical quality of the magazine.

Quips and Cranks editor Catherine Finegan will request $24,000 for the 1984 yearbook, an increase of $2,800 from last year’s allocation. Quips and Cranks historically receives the greatest ATC funding.

Wildcat Handbook editors Frances Palmer and Lindsey Rader will request $600 (up from $470 last year). The sharp decrease from the 1981-82 budget (approximately $1400) resulted from using the less expensive Davidsonian typesetter and a local printer. They expect expenses of about $1800 and advertising sales of $1200.

Club sports will ask for around $6500, according to club sports coordinator Sterling Martin. Personal expenditures and membership fees cover most club sports costs, but most of the teams need more money because inflation has increased equipment, travel, and referee costs.

The Davidsonian hopes to receive $13,900, a rise of $900 from last year. Printing and supply costs are greater than in previous years, but the newspaper hopes to compensate for the difference through increased subscriptions, typesetting, and advertising revenue.

The Y-Student Service Corps (Y-SSC) is applying for ATC funding for the first time this year. Previously, the Y-SSC raised money from students, townspeople, faculty, and alumni during a fall fund-raising campaign. “Fall term was spent fund raising rather than doing what we're here to do,” said Y president Doug Ammar. “We want to get down to the business of what the Y is all about.” The organization will request $1300.

Amnesty International also will request ATC funding for the first time, requesting $1500.

The Miscellany ($4,115 allotted last year), SGA ($5,000 last year), and the Artist Series ($7,000 last year) will ask for similar amounts.

Joyce Hollyday Speaks on Poverty, Nicaragua

By DAVID RESNIK

Associate Editor of Sojourners magazine Joyce Hollyday visited the campus this week as a Staley Foundation Pastor-in-Residence. Hollyday spoke at an open luncheon at 1:00 Wednesday in the 900 Room, conducted a Worship Service at 7:00 in the 900 Room that evening, and had lunch with students at the Commons yesterday. She will speak at the Davidson Christian Fellowship’s large group meeting in the Morrison Room tonight at 7:00.

Hollyday is a pastor at the Sojourners Christian Community of Washington, D.C. The Sojourners have chosen to live in a poor, urban community in order to see the “perspective of the poor rather than the privileged,” said Hollyday. Hollyday does not advocate that “we all move into the inner city,” but she encourages people to “consider different options.” She said that students were more politically aware in the '60s and early '70s, but recently they have concentrated more on assuring financial security. Instead of considering the views of others, this attitude makes us live “private, competitive lives,” Hollyday said.

Hollyday is one of seven evangelists who recently toured Nicaragua on a fact-finding mission. The July '79 revolution took Nicaragua out of U.S. influence and ousted Somoza as “our king,” according to Hollyday. Since then the...U.S. has tried to overthrow the revolution. The U.S. government has tried to sway the American people with a “massive propaganda campaign,” said Hollyday. She said that the Nicaraguan revolution was a “natural revolution,” and the U.S. government claimed it was started by Communists only as “a standard tactic to create panic and justify what we're doing down there.” She said that the new government in Nicaragua has made overwhelming improvements since it has come into power. There are now fewer human rights violations; the Nicaraguan illiteracy rate has dropped from 58 to 12 percent; polio has been eradicated; the infant mortality rate has dropped; and land has been redistributed to peasants.

She believes that “brutal control by elite rulers” has been the primary cause of many of Nicaragua’s problems. Hollyday has spoken at other colleges, seminaries, and pastoral retreats. She graduated from Bates College in Lewiston, Maine in 1976 as a religion major. She studied at the Yale Divinity School from 1976-77.

For the same amount they received last year. Requests undetermined at this point are the BSC ($5,300 last year), Davidson Christian Fellowship ($400 last year). The Freshman Communiqué did not ask for funds for 1983-84, but editor John Marks bought several pieces of equipment with ATC money from 1982-83. The publication’s leftover funds from this year will be returned to the ATC budget. The Women’s Center became a Union committee in 1982 and no longer requests ATC funding. The SGA now controls the Residence Hall Council and receives no ATC money. The carrier current station WDSR was discontinued last year.

Last Monday was the deadline for budget requests to be submitted to College business manager Robert Currie, but late proposals have been coming in all week. Each organization will present its request and arguments to the ATC on Wednesday and Thursday of next week. By Friday the Council should make its decision. The SGA Senate must approve the ATC finalized budget for money to be allocated. This year’s ATC Chairman, junior Mark Tully, was chosen by SGA president Hunter Monroe. Tully appointed senators Ester Kim and Kathleen Huff, and students Manny Waddill, Pat Sellers, and another yet to be determined. The SGA earlier named Currie, Union Director C. Shaw Smith, and Dean of Students Will Terry to semi-permanent positions.

Students Approve Arms Statement
By ANN MEADOR

An overwhelming majority of students voting in the Student Statement on Nuclear Arms referendum held on Tuesday supported the statement. Of 550 students voting (41.5% of the student body), 495 supported the statement, a part of which expresses the conviction that “the use of nuclear weapons is contrary to the fundamental morals of humanity.”

Students for Disarmament organizer Debby Williams was pleased with the response. “It was a better than average turnout for a general election,” she said. Williams and senior Hal Martin headed the effort to hold the SGA-run referendum. They and other students collected signatures last Tuesday and Wednesday on a petition calling for the SGA to hold the referendum.

When asked about any negative response to the referendum, Williams said no one had specifically approached her about it. “All we've gotten is positive feedback,” she said. The referendum’s organizers have not called on anyone to recognize and act on the results, said Williams, but she understands that other parties have sent results to The Charlotte Observer. “We're not opposed to publicity beyond the campus, but we haven't sent results to anyone,” Williams said.

The referendum was designed to stimulate dialogue among students whether or not they have made a decision concerning the nuclear arms race, Williams said. She hopes to organize a workshop next fall for students interested in expanding their knowledge about nuclear arms. All students interested in helping plan nuclear arms awareness activities at the Davidson Town Day in May are welcome to attend an organizational meeting at 5 p.m. April 28 in the Morrison Room, Williams said. Faculty and students hope to tell Davidson townspeople about the Statements on Nuclear Arms and possibly begin work on a Davidson town referendum on the nuclear arms issue.