THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXIII, Number 6
Slagle Refuses Offer To Use Football Field For Soccer
By DAVID RESNIK
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, October 21, 1983

Soccer Coach Charlie Slagle declined an offer from Interim College President Frontis Johnston yesterday to let the soccer team play
in Richardson Stadium for its November 5 match against Appalachian State University. The football team plays at Bucknell on November
5. Slagle said he would have used the field had he gotten permission at the beginning of the season. He
said he was going along with a decision which the athletic department had made, and that since he was part
of the athletic department, he would comply.

Farrell thought the soccer team should not use the field, because “it’s the football team’s field.” He said that since
all teams have their own facilities, they should be able to control their facilities. Farrell said he made a similar
decision when students requested the use of the hockey field for a Spring Frolics outdoor concert. According to Farrell, he
was only applying the same policy to the football field.

A Tuesday SGA Senate resolution submitted by Todd Wiebusch prompted Johnston’s action. Also, senior Lach Zemp circulated a petition asking
that the team be permitted to use the football field. Johnston overruled Athletic Director and Head Football Coach Ed Farrell
in offering the use of the field. Johnston received the SGA resolution and had talked (Continued on page 5)

Proposal Declared ‘Premature’
By LISA THOMAS
In a letter to SGA President Hunter Monroe, College Interim President Frontis Johnston rejected the SGA resolution to present the
faculty evaluation issue to the Trustees. After consulting with Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C.
Price Zimmermann, the Executive Committee of the Faculty, and Chairman of the Professional Affairs Committee, Alexander McKelway, Johnston wrote in
his letter, “I find unanimous among all these groups the opinion that the resolution you [Monroe] handed me October 11
is premature.”

Johnston said the section of the College Constitution providing for the SGA to request Trustee action on a particular issue
is for “exceptional circumstances or emergencies,” and he did not feel that this issue has reached that point yet. “Be-

Publish Or Perish: Junior Faculty Face Growing Dilemma
By ANN MEADOR
As professors at large universities face increasing pressure to publish scholarly articles in order to receive tenure, Davidson continues to
emphasize teaching over research. New attitudes toward the value of research are developing, however, as some faculty members show increased
interest in publishing as well as frustration over the Administration’s attitude toward the relationship between publishing and tenure decisions.

Reasons for an Increase
Some Davidson professors agree that increased competition for professor positions has sparked interest among younger faculty in publishing. “In the
past ten years or so, the job market has been glut- ted,” said historyProfessor David Shi stated, “Colleges expect more
than a PhD degree when considering candidates for positions.” Further, because professors outnumber the available positions, Davidson can hire graduates
of the finest institutions. “Junior faculty are coming from the best graduate schools,” English professor Randy Nelson said. “One can
clearly see them imitating their graduate school mentors in their pursuit of research.”

Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann said the faculty Davidson attracts today are
more interested in publishing than in previous years. “The increased interest is not the result of administrative pressure to publish,
but that scholars want to exchange information with each other,” he said. “A natural outcome of serious research is publication:
Why would one not want to communicate new knowledge one has discovered?”

Teaching vs. Research
The College's Statement of Purpose states, “In implementing its purpose to promote higher learning, Davidson has chosen to be a
college, to emphasize the teaching responsibility of all professors, and to ensure the opportunity for personal relationships between students and
teachers.” Faculty opinion varies as to the way (Continued on page 5)

Johnston Rejects SGA Resolution
Johnston also rests assured that “some agreement will be reached,” but could not suggest when. Zimmermann was unavailable for comment.
The SGA passed the resolution to request Trustee action at their October 11 meeting. Since Johnston rejected the resolution, the
SGA could now demand Trustee action but Monroe feels that “this would be pointless if Johnston does not feel that
it is necessary.”

“The main concern now is that we have a form for the students, and that the form allows the maximum
amount of input appropriate to the evaluation process,” Monroe said. “To go three straight terms without any student evaluations is
ridiculous.” He cited the Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures which says, “It is appropriate that their [students’] views be ascertained
by means of interviews, letters, evaluation forms or other methods.” Monroe said, “This is not now being done. I don’t
understand why they have waited so long.”

The SGA will now consider doing their own evaluation, but no particulars have been decided. Monroe said that the SGA
Faculty Evaluation Committee will decide the best way to go about this. Monroe also does not understand why the faculty
did not have another form ready for use before they discarded the Illinois Course Evaluation System forms on February 1,
1983. The faculty approved a prose evaluation form to replace the ICES, but in an April Davidson (Continued on page
5)

Inside This Week
Evacuation Plans: Davidson prepares for the unthinkable. Page 3
Death: John McDermott gives rousing lecture. Page 4
The Fixx: Junior Scott Huie spends a summer bumming around concert halls. Page 6
Blow Out: Davidson's soccer team improves its record to 10-1-1 in 6-0 Marshall win. Page 8
Guns: Philosophy professor Stell puts forth a rational approach to gun control. Page 11
