What do you see to be the three most important issues at Davidson College, and how do you see the paper dealing with these issues?

Resnik: The most important issue is the continued transition to co-education, and I think the paper can participate in this by keeping people informed of all the activities that are going on, when they happen, such as Women’s Week. Also, it can provide editorials on the issues which stress their more important aspects. Another thing that is very important is the continued growth of the College and the administration’s guidance as to making sure that the students do have a say in what is being changed and what will be changed in the College in the future. Again, we can have both articles and editorials to try to put forth our whole policy.

Meador: As to the third issue, one thing I’ve always noticed is the role of women in general at the College — not just in terms of co-education, but in the whole way the College views women. I think this is something we can reflect in our editorials — I think editorials in general are very strong ways in which the paper can have a voice. That’s one of the most important things the paper can do.

Kirkpatrick: The three issues I think are most significant to Davidson right now revolve around Patterson Court, the academic system, and the admission policy. I think an issue which is going to become increasingly more important is the dual issue of self-selection and the economic impact of the Commons on Patterson Court. The Davidsonian needs to follow these issues and to let the student body know in what direction Patterson Court is heading. I think that self-selection is basically a hypocritical system; I think everybody knows that we have a quasi-bid system for fraternities. We are only fooling ourselves, and I think that The Davidsonian needs to look at this.

In the academic sphere, we’ve had a major controversy over changing from the quarter system to the semester system. I think that we need to keep on the faculty about — we need to make sure they know how we feel, as they are deciding exactly how it is to be run. This is most important: we must get the student’s point across.

On the admissions policy, the trustees are seriously looking at open-ended admissions, and I think The Davidsonian should get behind them.

How do you feel that the paper should cover the upcoming presidential selection?

Resnik: The last time a president was selected, there really wasn’t much coverage in the paper. I think, however, that we have a pretty good start on the issue, and I think we should continue to follow the Trustee committee in its search. We should also continue talking to the faculty and student committees, making sure that the opinions which have been voiced on campus are being fairly represented. We may openly encourage the Trustees to take the student opinions into account in our editorials. We may also state some of the issues which we think the new president must take into account.

Kirkpatrick: This is definitely the most important issue that a new editor would face. I think it would be a mistake to get The Davidsonian personally involved in the selection. As I understand it, they are going to look at many, many candidates, and they go through the list on an individual basis. I don’t think The Davidsonian has a role in pumping one candidate — no college paper should have that kind of voice. But I think that The Davidsonian does need to decide with student input what kind of a president we want, what kind of Davidson we want to have. We need to decide where we want Davidson to go; The Davidsonian certainly should have a voice in this if The Davidsonian truly represents the voice of the students.

Kirk Kirkpatrick
By Anderson Scott ‘84

Lastly, what do you see as being the role of the editor within the framework of...The Davidsonian? 

Meador: David and I have decided that should we win the election, I would take the role of editor, and David would be executive editor. In any organization, there needs to be a final voice. The two of us will be splitting a lot of the responsibilities — there is so much work that it needs to be split. I think the editor in general has a great influence in terms of organization. The editor needs to have a strong view of everything that goes on with the newspaper — all areas. The ideal editor would be one who could make sure that the paper does everything it wants to do in terms of informing the students, entertaining them, and putting forth a strong editorial policy.

Resnik: An editor should be like a captain in that everyone follows the example of the editor. If the editor is serious and committed, then all the other people will be. I think that the editor should organize people not only literally, but also spiritually and emotionally and be in charge of actually getting people to work.

Kirkpatrick: As I’ve already said, the editor of The Davidsonian is primarily a manager. He should know how to do everything, but he should not have to do everything. He should primarily deal with people; he should organize his staff. I recognize that the job is going to take a lot of hours, but I think that these hours are better spent as an organizer than as a writer or reporter or typist. An editor has to be careful not to get involved in these things. He has to be a manager. By the force of his personality, as I have said, he has to be able to go out and get people. Then he will have a good paper.

Hobart Park

Dickey, Myers versus Lett, Cooper

By ANNE LAMBERT ’86

Two teams are running for co-editors of Hobart Park, the College’s literary art magazine: Suzanne Dickey with Scot Myers, and Dwayne Lett with Darryl Cooper.

Juniors Dickey and Myers feel they would bring extensive experience to the magazine as co-editors. “I have definitely paid my dues for this job,” said Dickey, who worked on her high school literary magazine, and has worked for two years on the staff of Hobart Park, serving this year as assistant editor. “We want to try and continue the tradition that Dave [Banks, last year’s editor] started, with a high-quality magazine... and I think we’re reaching that goal. It’s [Hobart Park] got a much more professional look to it now, just through our experience,” said Dickey. Scot Myers also has experience in literary publication, having written, edited, and published his own science-fiction magazine and serving as the graphic designer for The Davidsonian. “Suzanne and I are running because we’ve both worked on writing in the past, we work well together, and, between the two of us, we're involved in almost every aspect of campus life,” says Myers.

Dwayne Lett and Daryl Cooper, also running as co-editors, hope to take an innovative approach to Hobart Park if elected. “We want to broaden the scope of Davidson’s literary magazine so it encompasses all aspects of artistic expression — literary, photographic, performed, sculptural, philosophic, or artistic,” said Lett. Cooper, a freshman with sophomore academic status, worked for the last three years for a national student publication, Sunstone. For the last two years, Sunstone has been ranked as one of the top five student publications in the nation. Lett, a junior English major, has experience in “publications and editing, as well as literary criticism.” Said Lett, “I want to be taken seriously with this because it’s something I really want to do, and I feel we can really do a good job if we’re just given an opportunity. I know we’re qualified to do this.”

For the first time, the student body will elect Hobart Park’s editor. In past years, the retiring editor trained the incoming editor.