8 Friday, March 18, 1983

Presidency

Juniors Ester Kim, Hunter Monroe, and Burt Taylor are running for the office of SGA president. The Davidsonian asked them
these questions and asked for written responses:

1. What is your experience?
2. What are your goals for the SGA?
3. What do you consider to be the role of the SGA?

The slightly edited responses follow:

Ester Kim

1. This year alone I have served as president of the junior class, chairman of the SGA Admissions Weekend, member
of the Student Conduct Council, chairman of the Student Admissions Team (SAT), member of the Trustee Contact Committee, member of
the Senate Executive Committee, and chairman of the Senate Admissions Committee. This gives me the leadership experience I need to
serve as an effective president. However, the SGA president also needs to understand and be familiar with every aspect of
Davidson. My work with the SGA Admissions Weekend provides me with this understanding and familiarity. During a span of two
days approximately 120 high school seniors will visit Davidson. During their stay, I and my committee must expose them to
as much of Davidson as possible. This includes housing them with students, arranging meals for them at the Commons and
on Patterson Court, setting up professional and departmental panel discussions, and arranging classes for them to sit in on. As
a result of this work, a good rapport and working relationship has been established with the administration, faculty, the Union,
Patterson Court, and the Davidson students themselves. It is these same qualities which are vital for a good SGA president.

2. This year has seen progressive change in several areas. One example which will affect many students is the Patterson
Court question. The task for the 1983-84 SGA will be to act based on students’ response. And yet another unresolved
issue is the change from a trimester to a semester system. Now that it has been decided that Davidson will
change to a semester, the SGA can play an important role in making this transition as smooth as possible. A
future obstacle which must be addressed is the question of credit hours. Once again the SGA will turn to the
student body for their opinion. Finally, there are the other committees who have worked well this year — Tim Johnston's
pet project, the Midwestern Admissions Committee, the inter-campus mail system, SGA Weekend, the Rides Committee, and athletics. Ensuring the continuance
of this good work is important, but more crucial is building on the foundations which have already been laid.

3. SGA’s purpose is to represent the student body and to provide a liaison between the students, faculty, administration, and
trustees. With a new college president next year, the SGA and its president will play a more important role than
ever. My responsibility as president will be to assume this role and to see it carried out to its fullest
potential.

Hunter Monroe

1. A good SGA president must be aware and articulate, well-motivated so he can motivate others, and thoroughly disciplined and
responsible. The president must associate well with students, faculty, administrators, and trustees. The president must be respected, but must respect
others. The president must be willing to devote most of his time to the job. I am each of these,
or I would not want to be SGA president. My relevant experience includes: SGA (freshman year), Student Conduct Council, Residence
Hall Council, Media Board, numerous advisory boards, co-director of Prime User’s Group, Hall Counselor, fraternity (Comptroller) and eating house, Small
Group leader, working for the College last summer, and a broad range of extra-curriculars.

2. The SGA has a two-fold purpose. First, it is program-oriented, providing services for the benefit of students. The Phonathon
and the Rides Board are good examples of these worthwhile programs. Much innovation is possible in finding new projects and
approaching old ones in new ways. On the other hand, it must evaluate existing projects and decide whether to continue
them. Second, the SGA represents the student body, acting as a channel for student opinion and as a guardian of
student interests. The SGA organizes efforts to influence policy, through students on advisory boards, direct contact with faculty, administration, and
trustees, and through the SGA president. The president's influence is crucial, since he is a member of the CCRL, the
Advisory Board on Fiscal, Personnel, and Development Affairs, the Student Conduct Council, and other important committees. Also, he takes part
in faculty and trustee meetings, and has the ear of the administration. The two roles of the SGA are not
mutually exclusive and any attempt to view them as such limits the SGA’s effectiveness.

3. The SGA has the potential to have a tremendous impact on Davidson next year, and I want to see
that it does. The SGA will necessarily be a visible organization. It will need to establish good communication with the
new CollegePresident, and help him and the College adjust to each other. If this is done right, it will make
the SGA's job much easier in the coming years. It needs to keep abreast of policy changes and to act
when necessary. The SGA needs to cooperate with other organizations. The Y-SSC is sponsoring an attempt now to get campus
organizations working together to seek common goals. The SGA should foster this. I have proposed that the SGA hold a
leadership workshop open to all students before the start of school next year. The SGA needs to work with Patterson
Court to assure the future viability of the houses and to seek a social system acceptable to students and Administration.
The Faculty will decide on the details of the semester system next year. I suggest that the flexible credit-hour system
be given serious consideration. Other areas I see as important are curriculum, athletics, admissions, trustee contact, and faculty evaluation. Under
my guidance, the SGA will have a busy and productive year.

Burt Taylor

My SGA experience includes four years of high school affiliation, including president of the SGA my senior year. While president,
I soon began to understand the importance of delegating authority properly, motivating individuals, and praising good works — three qualities
needed by a president. While serving as your senator for the past two years at Davidson, I have both chaired
and served on numerous committees. I feel, however, that in evaluating a candidate and his qualifications, one must not emphasize
the number of committees the candidate has served, but, more importantly, the quality and diversity of these committees.

As a member of the Educational Policy Committee, I have worked with both students and faculty in continuing to develop
Davidson as one of the finest liberal arts colleges in the country. As an interviewer on the Presidential Advisory Committee,
I was able to discuss many of the issues with Davidson students. This interaction with students not only helped to
keep me abreast of the issues important to Davidson College, but more importantly, it gave me the opportunity to more
fully appreciate the views of students from all facets of the College. As a member of the Trustee Contact Committee,
I have been able to discuss the issues with the trustees, and, in so doing, I have come to understand
the importance of continued student and trustee interaction. As chairman of the interviewing committee for the Patterson Court Study, I
am now more aware of the problems of the social system at Davidson. After interviewing the president of each house
on and off campus, hall counselors, and freshmen, I feel I am able to voice many of the concerns of
others.

After serving as a senator for the past two years at Davidson, I now fully appreciate the opportunity students can
have to voice their concerns to the administration. I feel that the knowledge gained through these years on the SGA
has helped me to be in touch with the students’ concerns and that my experience can help me to voice
these concerns towards the administration.

One goal that I feel is of most importance deals with more student involvement in the SGA. I believe that
many students feel that if they were not elected to the senate, then they cannot serve on it. This assumption
is false, for these students can serve on SGA committees and have a voice in determining voting. The problem arises
with the communication gaps that often exist between the students and the senate. I feel that this goal of getting
more students involved can be accomplished by establishing a more open organization. The SGA needs to work more closely with
the school paper in providing the student with more information about the action of the senate. I would also like
to see a letter sent to each student describing the actions and goals of each committee and urging them to
get involved. I would hope that this letter would encourage more students to get involved, helping the SGA to become
a more representative organization.

Another important goal is for the president and members of the SGA to become more available to the students. I
would urge all senators to periodically visit their classmates and to discuss the issues with them. I feel that with
this availability of the president and senators to the students, along with the development of a more open organization, the
SGA could then more fully develop its goals. Given a commitment by the students and the members of the SGA,
these goals would be reached.

The Student Government Association is an organization that is composed of elected classmates and interested students who work together to
best represent the students’ opinions. I feel that the Senate’s role is to fully understand its purpose. The senators must
direct their ears towards their classmates and actively voice the students’ concerns towards the Administration.
