THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXII, Number 21
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, May 6, 1983

Southern Conference Revises By-Laws
BY STEVE SOUD

The Southern Conference passed a resolution last Friday forcing all members to compete for the conference championship in football, basketball, and at least six other sports. Davidson, which has not competed for the football championship since 1973, must either play five Southern Conference football games by 1985 or drop out of the conference. The Conference voted 7-1 in favor of the proposal. Davidson’s was the only vote against.

The Board of Trustees met this morning to decide whether to retain Conference membership. The news should break this afternoon. Athletic Director Ed Farrell explained, “There was a loophole in Conference by-laws that needed to be straightened out.” Although the resolution will affect Davidson most directly, it binds all the members. In the past, Farrell said, there was no rule requiring a school to participate in the basketball tournament or some other championship.

The Conference also passed a resolution restricting television revenue-sharing only to schools competing for championships. Although Davidson received no money this past season, it received $86,000 the previous season which bought the school’s Nautilus equipment. Farrell estimated that over the past four years, since Davidson first received a share, it has averaged $30,000 a year in television revenues.

Ultimately, Farrell said, “We may decide this is in our best interests anyway.” The football team, which had been flying as far north as Boston for games, will save vast amounts in travel expenses.

Organizations Receive Funds
By DAN VOOHRIS

The SGA Senate approved the Activities Tax budget proposed by the Activities Tax Council at Tuesday’s SGA meeting. Almost $68,000 ($65,000 from the student Activities Tax and $2,950 from the ATC reserve fund) will be distributed among twelve different student groups for the 1983-84 school year.

Most of the recipients felt the allocations were fair if not enough. “We assessed the needs and then added it up,” said ATC Chairman Mark Tully. “We didn’t just cut until we got to $65,000.” Some felt that the committee slashed too much, but, said Tully, “Everybody likes to expend but funds are limited. People just have to learn to work within their limits.”

Quips and Cranks received $23,000 from a request of $24,200, the largest Activities Tax allocation. “We're pleased,” said Editor Catherine Finnegan. “What we got we can work with.” The major item cut from their final allotment was $500 for a computer terminal to increase efficiency. The ATC disagreed that the terminal was needed and disallowed the request. The yearbook did receive funds to buy a new camera.

Activities Tax Budget Distribution
Graph by Ross Holt

1982-83 / 1983-84
1982-83 Requested $25,000
1983-84 $20,000
$15,000
$10,000
$5,000

The Davidsonian received $13,300 of a $13,900 request. “That's fair,” said Executive Editor David Resnik. One of the biggest expenses has been paying off the ATC loan for its two-year-old electronic typesetter. The ATC cancelled $4,500 of the $9,000 debt and granted $3,000 for loan repayment in the budget.

Club Sports jumped $1,000 to $5,500 this year from a request of $6,500. Sterling Martin said increased equipment and referee costs dictated the rise. The ATC agreed but suggested that the Athletics department begin to help pay costs.

The BSC remained at $5,300 this year on a request of $7,400. Business manager Dwayne D. Wright was pleased at the decision. “Now we can really get things done,” he said. The ATC had no qualms about the budget, but funds were limited. The Committee recommended that the BSC work withother organizations on special events. The SGA requested $5,000 but received $4,500. President Hunter Monroe expressed satisfaction despite a $500 cut from last year. The ATC blamed “vague” (Continued on page 6)

by playing Southern Conference schools, expenses which Farrell said have been “just ridiculous.” It will also give football players eligibility for all-conference honors. College President Samuel Spencer said, “Getting out of the Conference at the present time would present us with more trouble than staying in. Staying in would allow us to opt for change if necessary.” Farrell pointed out that although the major reason for Southern Conference membership is the automatic bid to the NCAA basketball tournament, “getting” (Continued on page 6)

PCSC Holds Referendum
BY JEFFREY MANN

In this week’s referendum on Patterson Court social system proposals, 57 percent of the students supported the Patterson Court Study Committee proposal allowing oral encouragements while affirming a student’s right to self-select. The turnout for the referendum was 729 students, or 52 percent of the student body, the largest turnout for an election since the semester vote last spring. PCSC Chairman Warren Gould said the poll results show that the campus is “leaning more towards selectivity” for the Court fraternities. Less than a quarter (24 percent) voted for greater enforcement of current self-selection rules.

A petition started last week by Pete Skillern, Ester Kim, and Edward Hay called for the referendum. Skillern said they wanted a referendum because “we felt that support for fraternity selectivity is not as widely accepted as had been assumed when the proposal was drafted. We wanted to show the Administration that though a minority, there is strong support for self-selection. If the SGA had passed the Patterson Court proposal before the referendum, this support would not have been recognized. This referendum is at best another valid needed means of gaining student input.”

Gould said his committee is continuing to work on the random telephone survey (Continued on page 6)

Faculty Approves Hours
By DAVID RESNIK

The faculty approved a motion presented by Physics professor Alan Wolf Tuesday calling for the implementation of a credit-hour system under the recently adopted semester system. Forty-six faculty members voted in favor of the motion, 26 opposed it, and one member abstained. The proposal recommended, “that graduation requirements under the recently adopted semester calendar be expressed in terms of credit-hours rather than in terms of courses. That the Educational Policy Committee, following consultation with all departments and academic programs of the College, be instructed to present to the Faculty a comprehensive program of distribution and core requirements for graduation. That each department and academic program of the College submit to the Faculty, through its Educational Policy Committee, a plan for the assignment of credit hours to each course.”

Wolf said that credit hours will give the students and faculty more “flexibility” in terms of scheduling and course loads. SGA President Hunter Monroe in a campaign interview in the March 18 Davidsonian suggested that “the flexible credit-hour system be given serious consideration.” The proposed semester system requires that students complete thirty-six courses for graduation, which means that they would take four courses one term and five the next. If credit were based on hours instead of courses, according to Wolf, students would be able to lighten the workload which five courses per semester requires. Wolf said another advantage of credit hours is that it will also allow the College to offer one and two-hour week courses, such as computer science classes for (Continued on page 6)

Inside This Week
Herb Jackson: A special look at Davidson's art professor/artist. See page 8.
Faculty responds: Professor Brian Shaw responds to Tim Schipke’s opinion on faculty activism. See page 15.
Tennis!: Catherine Smith received a bid for the national tennis tournament. See page 12.

With this issue, The Davidsonian ceases publication for the 1982-83 school year.