From the Locker Room

OK, folks, the euphoria’s great, but let’s come back down to earth.

Yes, the Notre Dame win was the greatest in ten years or so, and yes the fans were great, and yes it was on national TV, and so on. Even so, the fact of the matter is that Furman looms dead ahead — Saturday night, to be specific.

As with all truly great athletic contests, there’s no humanly possible way to recapture all the emotions of that game. Only those fans fortunate enough to be there can ever at all relive it, if only in their imaginations. The mob scene at the end is gone now, and weightier matters are with us. Namely Furman, Appalachian, and just one scant week from tomorrow is the long-awaited rematch with UT-C.

Lest we forget, although Davidson’s overall record is an adequate 6-5, the team’s Southern Conference record is 2-0, tops in the loop. One of those two victories is a 47-46 squeaker in which a last-ditch Tribus 3-pointer stole the game from Furman’s clutching hands.

The Paladins played as one might expect a Bobby Knight-style team to play. They played aggressive man-to-man defense the whole game and gave the Wildcats a run for their money. Furman may well have the best front line in the conference, so they are never to be taken lightly. Now we have to play them again, and if we throw in a 51-50 near-win against powerful albeit injury-riddled Clemson, matters become worse.

Top all that off with the Greenville Coliseum, otherwise known as the Greenville madhouse, and Davidson’s in trouble. How can any decent, moral basketball team expect to play in the glare of a purple-bedecked coliseum made worse by at least 1,000 purple blazers? Purple may well be a royal color, but taken to the slightest excess it’s not the least bit tactful, and Furman fans will never be accused of having tact.

So, if you can’t make the trip to Furman Saturday night, keep in occasional touch with a radio (1110 WBT, game time 8:00) or maybe you’ll want to tune it in on your Ski-fi.

Tuesday night’s game in Charlotte promises to be a blast. Already, about 4,000 tickets have been issued, and it’s high school night to boot, so the crowd could easily exceed Tuesday night’s 5,031. Regardless of Saturday’s outcome, the ASU game is of great importance. The very young Apps, working primarily with their best recruiting class in some time, are struggling at 2-4 and desperately seeking a win. If Davidson has any aspirations to the Southern Conference crown, the Appalachian game is a must-win.

Then, of course, there is the big game in Chattanooga. Murray Arnold and company have built up quite a powerhouse over there. After whipping N.C. State and nearly upsetting no. 6-at-the-time Minnesota last year, the Mocs are off to a roaring 7-2 start this year. Their only two losses have been to no. 12 Tennessee by six points and no. 18 North Carolina (who?) by seven. Willie White, last year’s MVP as a sophomore, has picked up right where he left off, averaging 20 PPG while shooting at a 60.5 percent clip. Dominique’s “little” bro, Gerald Wilkins, has been a factor as he is scoring 13.7 PPG. Obviously, the Cats do not plan a cakewalk.

So while we savor Tuesday night’s win, let's keep in mind that the party’s just beginning. As I reminded you earlier, there are only five games all season that matter: two wins over VMI to make the tournament, and the three wins there to make THE tournament. Let’s keep up the good work.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone 704/892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $10 per year. Advertising rates available on request.

Stewart Cauley, Editor
David Resnik, News Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Andrew Wilson, Features Staff
Jeff Mann, Assistant News Editor
Jeff Dempsey, Features Editor
Ann Meador, Production Editor
Anderson Scott, Photography Editor
Tom Pafford, Executive Editor
Debby Williams, Fine Arts Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeff Danese, Advertising Manager
Frank Hague, Advertising Manager
Tom Schilling, Circulation Manager
Scot Myers, Graphics
Fred Broadwell, Brian Butler, Clare Eckert, Jonathan Glance, Joe Jaworski, Matt Morris, John Verdi, Boyd Blackburn, Duncan Fraser, Carl Hobson, Paulette Kurani, Anne Lambert, Tim McGaughey, Elodie McMillan, Peggy Pierotti, Mike Tantillo, News Staff
Kara Gilmore, Scott Huie, Garry Sullivan, Sports Staff
Neil Cooksey, Angelique Foster, John Lyday, Ginna McGee, Laura McGee, John Ruppenthal, Photography Staff
Rob Hollenbeck, Production Staff

THE DAVIDSONIAN/7 January 1983