6 Friday, March 18, 1983

The Davidsonian

Rusk Scholars Arrive

Davidson Welcomes

British Invasion

By FRED BROADWELL

The British Invasion has hit Davidson. Every spring the Rusk Scholars descend on the college, and this year is certainly
no different. Sam Roberts, Harriet Davison, Caroline Long, James Rampton, Tom Henry, and Emma Carne attended St. Paul’s in London,
where they learned of the Rusk Program; Ottoline Leyser, from Cambridge, rounds out the group of seven.

All the Rusk Scholars will study at either Oxford or Cambridge next year. They are now in the 9-month waiting
period between high school and university.

The desire to do something interesting and different and the lure of America motivated most of the students to come
to Davidson. “I’ve been living in London all my life and it was about time to do something different,” says
Roberts. Henry wanted to do something besides work before he enters Oxford. Good reports from former Rusk Scholars motivated Rampton,
while Ottoline is interested in the work being done in genetics in the U.S.

The Scholars expressed a variety of views on subjects ranging from the American college system, the future of England and
dating to the lack of dancing at Davidson.

Many of the Rusk Scholars’ first experiences at Davidson have been humorous. “Almost everyone has asked me if I know
Prince Charles and Lady Di,” laughs Long. “You know, there are several million people living in England,” she continues. Davison
adds: “Many people have commented on my clothes—‘my, isn’t that a cute outfit,’ they say.”

Roberts finds the ‘Davidson three-minute conversation’ amusing. “People come up, say hello, say they like my shoes, and then walk
off,” he says.

The Scholars are also intrigued by the 35 channels on television, Nautilus workouts, the red mud, 6 o’clock supper and
the number of ants.

The students have enjoyed their first week here; they commend the hospitality of the students and their host families, the
abundance of school facilities and the effectiveness of the Honor Code.

Rampton comments: “The hospitality here is a reality, not just a cliché.” Carne adds, “I felt comfortable immediately.” Concerning the
facilities for students, Davison says, “It’s incredible — ridiculous — so many facilities for only 1400 students.” All the Scholars
like the Honor Code; in England, students undergo intense supervision during their exams.

1983 Rusk Scholars (clockwise): Emma Carne, James Rampton, Sam Roberts, Ottoline Leyser, Tom Henry, Caroline Long. Center: Harriet Davison

Stuart Scholars Selected

By Duncan Fraser

Last week a committee selected four recipients and two alternates of Edward Crosland Stuart Scholarships at Davidson College.

The winners are Michael McElwee Holt of Burlington (brother of Tony Holt ’83); Kathleen Mary Micham of Tryon; Daniel Beasley
Murrey of Pulaski, Tenn. (brother of Mark Murrey ’83); and Mark Steven Sandy of Roanoke, Va. First alternate is John
David Fleenor of Knoxville, Tenn., and the second alternate is Jane Elizabeth Dunlap of Charlotte.

The four-year scholarships, based on Christian commitment, leadership, academic achievement and a “vigorous outlook on life” pay for full tuition,
fees, room and board. Each scholarship is valued in excess of $33,220.

“It was difficult to choose four scholarship recipients from our 11 outstanding finalists,” said Seddon Goode Jr. of Charlotte, chairman
of the scholarship programs board of directors.

Holt, a senior at Episcopal High School in Alexandria, Virginia, is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Ralph M. Holt
Jr. of Burlington, N.C. At Episcopal, Holt has served as a member of the Honor Committee, head monitor and captain
of the varsity basketball and lacrosse teams. He is a member of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes, the Program Committee
and the Admissions Committee. His awards include Cum Laude, Rensselaer Mathematics Award, and the Science and Kilby Medal for Excellence
in Chemistry.

Murrey, a senior at Giles County High School, is the son of Dr. and Mrs. William H. Murrey of Pulaski,
Tenn. At Giles, Murrey is president of the Student Council, president of the Tennessee Association of Student Councils, president of
the Beta Club, and has been captain of the Scholastic Bowl Team his junior and senior years. He has the
top position on the tennis team, all conference for four years. He has won awards in English, French, American History,
Top Ten Regional Chemistry Contest, Exchange Club Student of the Month and placed first in the Regional Advanced Math Contest.
He is also a National Merit Semi-Finalist.

Micham, a senior at Spartanburg Day School in Spartanburg, South Carolina, is daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Philip L. Micham
of Tryon, North Carolina. At Spartanburg Day School, Micham is editor of the yearbook and newspaper, homeroom representative to the
Student Council, secretary of the Junior Council-World Affairs, and a member of the French Club. She is manager of the
basketball team and is a member of the field hockey team. She is a flutist and member of the French
Club. She is a National Merit Semi-Finalist and has won the Rommill Foundation Award, Colonel Ergle History Award and High
Honor Roll.

Sandy, a senior at North Cross School, is the son of Mr. and Mrs. William G. Sandy of Roanoke, Va.
At North Cross, Sandy is president of the Student Government, class representative to the Honor Council and vice president of
the National Honor Society. Sandy has lettered in varsity lacrosse, varsity basketball, and is a writer for the school newspaper.
His awards include first Honor Roll, Virginia Governor’s School, outstanding student-VCU Journalism Workshop and National Essay Contest Winner.

The scholarship program is named for Edward Crosland Stuart, a 1954 Davidson College graduate who died in a Navy plane
crash in 1956. Funds are provided by the Edward Crosland Stuart Foundation of Bartow, Fla., and Stuart’s fellow Davidson alumni.
