Greenpeace: Living in Our World

The director speaks of their goals

By JEFF DEMPSEY ’83

“One thing that I try to do,” says Jon Hinck, head of the international environmental organization Greenpeace, “is to let people know how exciting and rewarding it is to develop a knowledge and understanding of environmental issues. These questions are often very central to the major questions of our time and even of history, and an understanding of the interrelation of various creatures, the geography, the topography, and the chemistry of this world is really exciting. I’d have to say that five years ago I was as unlikely a candidate to be an environmental activist as anyone, and perhaps the thing to be learned from that is that there’s a little bit of this in everyone.”

Hinck will be speaking at Davidson about the proposal now in Congress to start allowing the dumping of radioactive waste off the North Carolina coast. Greenpeace has worked on this issue both in Europe and in the U.S. An intensive campaign by Greenpeace last fall, for example, resulted in the Netherlands announcing that it would stop dumping nuclear waste at sea.

When asked about Greenpeace’s position on the dumping of toxic waste at sea, Hinck had this to say: “There might be situations in which dumping is a reasonable short-term approach to a waste problem, but those situations are few and far between because in general something that is inappropriate for one reason or another to store on hand poses a substantial hazard to the ocean.”

“Over and beyond that we face a very serious problem that once the ocean has become seen as a dumping ground of choice, in a sort of out of sight out of mind reaction, very serious contaminants will be placed in the ocean by people who wish to get rid of them and are not concerned about the environmental hazards. So it is not fair to take an extremely hard line on this issue because we do recognize that waste problems have to be dealt with one way or another; but we are painfully aware that there is a tremendous risk in allowing the oceans to be viewed as a waste space.”

The Greenpeace organization began with a small group of people in Vancouver, British Columbia. The initial campaign for the group concerned the atmospheric testing of atomic bombs by America and France in the Pacific. Through various means, including the taking of vessels into the testing zones in the Pacific, the Greenpeace people helped bring about an international agreement to cease atmospheric testing.

Greenpeace, however, remained a small organization until 1975 when the first anti-whaling campaign was undertaken. In this campaign, Greenpeace members confronted the Russian whaling fleet in the Pacific and went out in small rubber rafts to get between the harpooners and the whales. These bold tactics brought an international spotlight on Greenpeace, and the organization grew rapidly in the wake of this publicity. The anti-whaling campaign, fueled by partial successes, goes on today within Greenpeace in hopes of bringing an end to commercial whaling for good.

When asked what might be the single most...Important environmental issue today, Jon Hinck replies: “If I had to choose, I might say two issues stand out — atomic testing and the increasing overproduction of toxic waste.”

On the issue of banning all nuclear testing, Hinck emphasizes that Greenpeace has made it clear from the beginning that it recognizes that any progress on testing must involve all nations currently active in nuclear testing. But Hinck feels that a test-ban treaty is politically feasible and is “distressed to see that it is often the U.S. that drags its heels on this issue.”

“A test-ban treaty,” says Hinck, “is a fruit in arms control that has been ripening steadily and may reach the stage where it is overripe. A stumbling block to arms control is verification [for each side that the other is complying with the treaty]; a test-ban is absolutely verifiable since only the smallest atomic test, perhaps as low as one-tenth of a kiloton of TNT, could ever occur anywhere on the planet without being detected by modern seismological instruments. While not ending the arms race, a test-ban treaty would severely restrict it.”

As for toxic waste, Hinck comments, “the future of Greenpeace is to address this question in many different ways. On the one hand, Greenpeace spends much time collecting and compiling information on toxic wastes in order to understand fully the problems.

“It is important to pursue information not only for today’s waste but for the problems that have already been created. If we don’t continue to work aggressively on this issue, what has already been produced could plague us tremendously. On the optimistic side, we also know enough now that we can bring this problem under control. So it’s a double-edged sword.”

At this stage, Greenpeace is concentrating more and more of its efforts on “research and calm persuasion” in its work on toxic waste disposal. “But,” Hinck adds, “we are fairly certain that [this work] will also involve confrontation with those people who would take waste and try to get rid of it without considering the consequences.”

At what point then, we asked, does Greenpeace choose to use tactics such as direct confrontation? Hinck replies: “Basically, in one degree or another, Greenpeace has worked on almost every widely recognized environmental problem and in the vast majority of the cases we have found that reason and common sense can prevail. But there are a substantial number of times when, unfortunately, there is some economic pressure or a strong political block that makes it somewhat difficult for the appropriate action to be taken. Then we end up in a situation where we must be willing to take risks and use the direct approach because, in essence, it is impossible to sit back and let a serious hazard go on unchallenged.”

The Greenpeace boats place themselves between modern whalers and their prey.

THE DAVIDSONIAN. Post Office Box 218, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Subscriptions cost $12 per year within the United States and $16 per year elsewhere in North America; $22 in Europe ($30 airspeeded). Rates for the Far East and Oceania upon request.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 February 1983