Honor Code to Cover Computers
Dr. Hansford Epes’s proposal clarifies computer plagiarism
By JIM CROWE ’83

Every student shall be honor bound to refrain from cheating (including plagiarism). Every student shall be honor bound to refrain
from stealing.
—Davidson Honor Code

Cheating and stealing are strong words, and their presentation in the Davidson Honor Code is terse and direct. The strict
application of the principles behind these words in the day-to-day life of the student at Davidson is a difficult, though
manageable, affair.

The great upsurge of interest in computer literacy and technology, stimulated by the installation of a completely new computer system
on campus, has brought new challenges to the elaboration of the principles of the Honor Code. The concentration of information
generated by students and faculty into one resource, the computer, creates the potential for unauthorized examination or manipulation of the
work of others in a way unforeseen in the days of mere pen and paper storage systems.

Computer Services Director Robert DeSieno said, “It’s a complex, difficult, and new issue at Davidson. There is no clear understanding
among the constituents about the use of the computer and considerations about the Honor Code.”

DeSieno stated that a major difficulty in discussing the issue is the existence of several standards by which to judge
honor and computer use. First, he pointed to the personal opinion and attitude of each computer user, and offered, “For
me, the information that people store in the computer is private property, just like the possessions they have in their
dorm rooms are their private property.”

Second, DeSieno pointed to computer use standards of the non-academic world. “Theft in an industry that uses computers involves the
unauthorized examination, removal, or changing of information in a computer.”

Third, DeSieno noted that the underlying standards of the Honor Code must be taken into account.

Dean of Students Will Terry also alluded to the problem of varied personal experience and opinion in the field of
computer use. “One of the unclear things is that people come here having used computers in high school or other
places where the expectations and the procedures are different. And that’s because of the presence of the Honor System here.”

Terry said some type of special education may be in order in this regard for all Davidson students. “It may
necessitate the kind of attention we give to plagiarism in orienting to the Honor System, as far as the freshman
class is concerned.”

Honor Council Chairman Greg McFayden commented, “Students should be aware that all work done on

The Computer Crush Poses New Problems
(CPS) — As colleges rush into the computer age, they’re meeting some perplexing new-age problems of student security and crime.
Huge electronic erasures of student and faculty records have plagued some campuses, while others struggle with ways of keeping teacher-student
relationships confidential.

At UCLA, for instance, two 17-year-olds broke into the university's files and erased thousands of student transcripts and instructors’ files
stored there. Similarly, Lehigh University students were “cheated and robbed” of coursework stored in the Pennsylvania campus’ main computer when
someone tampered with the machine last year.

One new problem is keeping publicly-available files private. Last term, for example, Harvard students tried to convince administrators to regulate
access to their electronically-stored study materials. The university allows student tutors to see academic files of their charges. While the
tutors may have legitimate reasons for looking at certain files, the students argue their privacy rights become precarious if the
tutors should misuse them.

Such information is never totally safe, observers warn. Guarding the information “is a human problem, not something caused by the
computer itself,” notes Apple Computers spokesman Stan DeVaugn. “For every security system, there’s going to be someone working on a
way to get around it. All students can do is save everything they do on their own discs, and be
very careful who they give their passwords to.”

But privacy “cannot be taken lightly,” adds IBM spokesmanBruce Schimming: “Universities are particularly sensitive to privacy and the concept of
being passively observed and watched by some Big Brother-type system.”

“Sure it’s possible to get into someone else’s file,” says John Sutton, an Iowa State junior who regularly submits his
work electronically to his instructors. “But it’s just as possible for someone to break into my dorm room and steal
everything.” Despite the real concerns over security and the dramatic cases of large-scale electronic erasures, most student problems so far
seem to concern getting either too much or too little of the new technology.

McFayden advocated a broad clarification of the Honor Code. “I'd like to see something added to the Code, yet I
don’t want any long, drawn-out, intricate statements about computer use. There’s a certain amount of responsibility left to the student
to use common sense about these matters.” Clearly, the Honor Code needs to be examined and clarified in this regard
by the Student Conduct Council. DeSieno said, “I think the Honor Code really works here, and it needs to be
broadened to embrace the computer. Once this is done, the Honor Code will work even more effectively for the use
of the computer.”

Along these lines, Coordinator for Academic Computing Hansford Epes has drafted a proposed text to be added to the Honor
Code. The proposal, a five-paragraph examination of security considerations and the computer, strictly treats the User File Directory (UFD) contents
as private property. The proposal reads, “Information created by one person is that person’s property: the information may be a
text for a paper, an algorithm for a computer program, or data accumulated in any way. A file directory in
the computer is as much a person’s property as are items stored in that person’s room, papers drafted in that
person’s notebooks, or confidential data stored in administrative, faculty, or student offices.”

The proposal contains advisory warnings to students and faculty to protect the contents of their UFDs through initial naming procedures,
passwords, and other like precautions. In regard to entering the school’s administrative files, the proposal states, “Any attempt by an
unauthorized person to get into materials on the administrative computer will be viewed with the same tolerance as attempts to
break into a safe or into the Comptroller’s or Registrar’s (or other) offices. In other words, malice of intent will
be assumed.”

DeSieno spoke of the proposal, saying, “I endorse it. It speaks to the issue.” Terry commented, “What we will use
this for is more or less like the explanation of plagiarism in the Code, so that students will know what
is expected and not expected.”

In a recent memo, Epes urged immediate action. “It is very important that we move soon to clarify the position
of the Honor Code on use of the facilities of the computer. Let us let no more time slip by.”
DeSieno noted, “We [Computer Services] have been asking for some activity in this area for over a year.” Terry said
that the proposal will be considered for addition to the Honor Code by the Student Conduct Council within the next
few weeks.

The editor of Toronto’s Erindale College student paper got too much, almost losing his job for refusing to produce the
paper on the school’s new computer system. After arguing the system wasn’t good or reliable enough to do the job,
the editor finally got to keep his job, though not before being docked $60 to make up the cost of
producing the paper the old way.

More typically, students are most upset about getting too little of the technology. Lines at campus computers are often long.
At Idaho State, “it’s not unusual to have kids lined up three-deep to use a computer,” says computer Director Robert
Watts.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 4 February 1983
