THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXII, Number 18
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, April 15, 1983

91 Profs Sign Nuclear Arms Statement
Student Referendum This Tuesday

By ANN MEADOR

Ninety-one Davidson College faculty members have signed a statement calling for “a worldwide freeze on the production and deployment of
nuclear weapons.” It “represents a statement of principle to the campus community in hopes that it will serve as a
guide to student action, but also to recognize that the students had raised our [the faculty’s] consciousness,” said art professor
C. Shaw Smith Jr., one of the project’s organizers.

The statement is designed to represent the feelings of those who signed it and not the campus as a whole,
said religion professor William Mahony, another organizer of the effort. “We wanted this to reflect the feelings of a group
of individuals, not an institution,” he said.

The idea for the faculty statement originated when Smith and art professor Russ Warren considered the activism of the ’60s
and students’ willingness to express themselves at that time. Another professor’s challenge “What’s that generation doing now?” sparked Smith’s and
Warren’s enthusiasm. “‘What could we do?’” Warren said they asked themselves.

At an informal meeting on April 6, a group of about thirteen professors discussed options. They decided upon a resolution
to be signed by professors and presented in public. Five of those professors met the next day and decided to
adapt a nuclear arms (Continued on page 4)

Inside This Week
-New Restaurant: The Studio plans to open this Monday. Story on page 3
-Bret Logan: Student artist experiences the jungle. Story on page 10
-Book Review: The Stories of Breece D’J Pancake. Page 11
-Drop/Add: Does the system need change? Page 19

Victor Pavlenkov (left) and Yan Kandror (right)

Soviet Exiles Discuss Human Rights

By DAVID RESNIK and ELIZABETH KISS

Two students in exile from the U.S.S.R., Victor Pavlenkov and Yan Kandror, discussed human rights and disarmament before a crowd
of more than one hundred people yesterday from 4-6 p.m. in the Morrison Room. The event was sponsored by Amnesty
International.

The two exiles set up a table in Chambers all day Thursday in order to talk with students and pass
out literature. They spoke in History Professor Earl Edmondson’s Twentieth Century Soviet History Class and ate at different eating houses.

Two months ago, Pavlenkov and Kandror founded the Soviet American Student Struggle (SASS), an M.I.T.-based group of students and Soviet
refugees seeking to promote awareness of peace and human rights efforts in the Soviet Union. They are currently touring colleges
and universities across the country. So far they have visited Brown, Yale, Boston College, the University of Richmond, and the
University of Virginia.

Pavlenkov and Kandror travel by car, paying for their own food and gas except when they receive occasional donations from
students and campus organizations. After completing their tour they will stay around the New York area. They plan to hold
a peace rally in front of the Soviet embassy in June.

Pavlenkov said the group was formed in response to Prime Minister Yuri Andropov’s recent crackdown on human rights in the
Soviet Union. “Everyone who has any connection with the freedom movementor human rights movement has been getting arrested,” he said.
Pavlenko said the SASS works in two ways. First, it offers moral support to Soviet prisoners through letter-writing campaigns sponsored
by Amnesty International. Second, it tries to pressure the Soviet government from the outside. He claims the Soviet government can
be coerced, but only if the noise “is loud over here.”

Jeff Mann

“The Soviet government is sensitive to Western public opinion,” he said. He cited the example of a Soviet prisoner who
was released from a mental hospital only after continued pressure from the West. Independent disarmament groups in the U.S.S.R. are
a target for repression according to Pavlenko. He believes western peace groups can have an important influence in the Soviet
Union by pressuring the government not to imprison and harm these dissidents. He also favors full agreement with western peace
groups which support “a bilateral, verifiable freeze.”

Even though the Soviet government may have plans to control the world, the Soviet people are America’s greatest allies, he
said, because they live under a regime of “Communist terror” and still struggle for freedom. Pavlenko believes the Soviet people
may have lost some of their taste for freedom after Stalin’s purges. Terror has numbed their senses. He said this
process

(Continued on page 4)

Spencer’s Address Highlights Convocation

By DUNCAN V. FRASER

College President Samuel Spencer will make his final address to the College this morning at 11:00 a.m. in Love Auditorium
during Spring Convocation. Classes after 10 a.m. will be cancelled to allow students to attend the convocation.

Spencer will also confer two honorary degrees on distinguished alumni, John P. McKnight ’28, who will receive a doctor of
letters degree and Julien L. McCall ’42, who will be awarded a doctor of laws degree.

A native of Denver, N.C. now residing in Naples, Fla., McKnight is an award-winning author and journalist who retired in
1969 after 20 years as a public affairs officer with the U.S. Information Agency, now the International Communication Agency. After
graduating from Davidson, McKnight worked as a reporter and editor for the Wilmington News-Dispatch and the Charlotte News before joining
the Associated Press as a foreign correspondent. He left AP for USIA in 1949, and served in Rome, Seoul, Rio
de Janeiro, Buenos Aires, and at the National War College at Fort McNair. His 1952 book, The Papacy, won the
N.C. Mayflower Award for non-fiction. McKnight also has written numerous fiction and non-fiction works for magazines.

McCall is currently president and chief executive officer of National City Bank in Cleveland. A native of South Carolina, he
served in the Army during World War II, and earned an MBA from Harvard in 1947. McCall spent 22 years
with First National Bank of New York, the forerunner of New York’s Citibank. He moved to National City Bank as
first vice-president for general administration in 1971, and was named president a year later. He is a former trustee of
Davidson College and has served as a member of Davidson's board of Visitors.

Numerous students will also be recognized for various achievements at the convocation. Convocation was planned to coincide with Alumni Weekend
and will be followed by a luncheon on Vail Terrace.
