2 Friday, December 7, 1983 / The Davidsonian

SGA Phonathon Surpasses Last Year’s Total

After five nights, the SGA phonathon has received pledges of $71,018 from the classes of 1923 to 1983 in contributions
to Davidson’s “Living Endowment.” Using seven fewer phones than last year, the project is $17,548 ahead of last year’s Phonathon.
Project coordinator Lindsey Rader attributed the increase to the improved economy and better organization. The organizers hope to increase the
percentage of alumni contributing from last year’s 32 percent to 40 percent. The phonathon will continue through Friday night.

Students’ Stolen Property Recovered

Davidson police have recovered property belonging to Davidson students, which was stolen earlier this year. The total value of the
property is estimated at $1,683. Davidson officers found most of the property at the residence of Vincent Huntley of Davidson.
Huntley and three others, Andrew Jackson, Michael Black, and Reggie Norris, all of Davidson, were arrested on charges of possession
of stolen goods.

Among the property recovered was: a 10-speed bike belonging to sophomore Duncan Fraser, a Technics receiver and tape deck owned
by Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, a Texas Instruments calculator belonging to Carolyn Leavitt, stereo equipment owned by Kevin Kurk and
by Warner Hall eating house, stereo speakers owned by Phi Gamma Delta fraternity, and items belonging to the Covington Golf
Facility at Davidson.

In a separate incident, the Covington Golf Facility was robbed Monday night of lawn equipment valued at $497. Davidson police
have not been able to identify the owners of some of the recovered possessions, and they encourage students who have
had property stolen to contact the Davidson police.

Blake Attends U.S. Affairs Conference

Junior Chris Blake attended the 35th annual Student Conference on United States Affairs held at the U.S. Military Academy November
16-19. “The Politics of U.S. Foreign Policy” was this year’s conference theme. It opened with a keynote address from Lawrence
Eagleburger, the Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs. The conference consisted of roundtables made up of student delegates and
experts from throughout the United States who dealt with a variety of policy issues. Blake participated in a roundtable discussion
of national priorities and defense spending.

ROTC Collects Blood for Red Cross

The Davidson ROTC department sponsored a blood drive Monday with the Red Cross, collecting 298 pints, two short of their
goal of 300. Those who wanted to give but could not totaled 340. Third Center Belk won a dinner at
King of Pizza for having the highest percentage participating among eating houses, fraternities, and freshmen halls. Last year the ROTC
department collected 289 pints.

Fewer Apply For Early Decision; Choices Made

The Davidson College Admissions Committee accepted 63 of 120 applicants December 1 under the college’s early decision plan. This figure
is down from last year’s 146 applicants for early decision, of which the Admissions Committee admitted 83. Admissions director John
Griffith does not believe this year’s decrease is significant.

NEWS SUMMARY

First, last year’s total applications were up 20 percent over the year before. As a result, a decrease in early
decision applicants is understandable, he said. “We usually aim for a group of 75 to 80, but this year’s early
decision admissions follow the low spectrum of previous years,” Griffith said. Griffith is impressed with theRegional diversity of the early
decision group, which represents 20 different states. “That’s the most diverse group ever,” he said. To make up a freshman
class of 340 to 360 for next year, Griffith said more applicants will be admitted under regular decision, but this
will not require loosening of the college’s admissions selectivity. Griffith said the committee will also complete adjustments for last year’s
unusually large senior class in their admission decisions. According to Griffith, Davidson has not experienced the decline in admissions applications
other colleges have. The national average last year was a 10 percent decrease. The average for colleges in the northeast
was 40 percent. (Figures are from the National Center for Higher Management Systems.) The number of applications for regular decision
stands at 1,000 and Griffith expects it to increase to between 1,700 and 2,000 by the February 1 deadline.

Davidson Ranked Ninth In Magazine Survey

Davidson College was ranked ninth among the nation’s liberal arts colleges in a survey published in the Nov. 28 issue
of U.S. News and World Report. Davidson was the only Southern institution to make the top ten of liberal arts
colleges with national reputations. The survey was based on a poll of 1,308 presidents of four-year colleges who were asked
to name the nation’s highest-quality undergraduate schools. More than 50 percent replied. Davidson tied for ninth place with Haverford College
(Pa.), Pomona College (Cal.), and Reed College (Ore.), having been mentioned by 13.4 percent of the respondents. The other top
ten national liberal arts colleges, in descending rank order, are Amherst College (Mass.), Swarthmore (Pa.), and Williams (Mass.) colleges (tie),
Carleton College (Minn.), Oberlin College (Ohio), Wellesley College (Mass.), Wesleyan University (Conn.), and Bryn Mawr College (Pa.). A total of
121 national liberal arts colleges were identified by the survey. Each has a national reputation and draws enrollment from most
of the 50 states. They have traditionally been the most selective of the nation’s smaller schools. The survey also included
lists of national universities, regional liberal arts colleges, comprehensive universities, and small comprehensive universities.

Davidson To Present Christmas Vespers Program

Davidson College will usher in the Christmas season with its traditional Christmas Vespers program at 7:15 p.m. December 11 at
Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Davidson College chaplain, Charlie Summers, will preside at the service, which will feature participation by a
number of Davidson’s musical organizations along with readings and lessons for the Christmas season. Among those taking part will be
the college’s Male Chorus, Women’s Chorus, and Concert Choir, all under the direction of W. Vladimir Morosan; College Organist Wilmer
Hayden Welsh; the Brass Ensemble, directed by William Lawing; and the Flute Ensemble, led by Shirley Jackson. The choral music
will include anthems by Schutz and William Albright, and Christmas music arranged by Vaughan Williams, Kirke Mechem, and others. Hymns
to be sung include “Come, Thou Long-expected Jesus,” “Gentle Mary Laid Her Child,” “Hark, the Herald Angels Sing,” and “Joy
to the World.”

CATHY’S BOOK SWAP
Main St. & Hwy. 115
Cornelius, N.C.
Swap and Sell
Novels
Mystery
Science Fiction
Historical Romance
Silhouette
Ecstasy Romance
Western

KING OF PIZZA
663-3030
225 S. Broad St.

MOOSE FAMILY NIGHT
Every Monday Night 5 To 10
PIZZA
BUY ONE PIZZA (ANY SIZE)
GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE FREE
