THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXII, Number 17
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, April 8, 1983

Court Committee Completes Primary Study
By ROSS HOLT

The Patterson Court Study Committee of the SGA (PCSC) has ended the first phase of its investigation into self-selection with
a rough draft proposal designed to define self-selection “more openly and accurately.” At a student forum held Tuesday in Chambers
gallery, committee member Burt Taylor reported on the student interviews his subcommittee conducted. Chairman Warren Gould then read the PCSC
proposal and opened the floor for discussion.

Taylor said he and committee members Pete Skillern and Pat Woodward had conducted interviews with a representative from each Court
house, usually the president or rush chairman. Although Taylor said he had expected less of a consensus from the interviews,
he noted certain areas of agreement among almost all houses. He said that all the interviews reflected concern that the
system be made more open and honest, and work more clearly and efficiently.

Taylor also said that some houses had voiced uncertainty over a two-tier system, in which fraternities would be allowed to
extend bids and eating houses would remain self-selected. He said the consensus here was that the bid system would present
problems with the social status of the eating houses. In addition, there was, he said, general agreement that freshmen should
be introduced to the court earlier, perhaps as early as the second week of school.

After Taylor’s report, Gould read the proposal, emphasizing that the committee was willing to alter it based on student sentiment.
Gould’s reaction to the following discussion was “very positive.” Due to the “wide spectrum of ideas,” according to Gould, the
committee opted to postpone offering the proposal to the SGA until another open forum could be arranged. Gould also said
that the committee would accept counter-proposals and alternative resolutions. Gould said he would like to have all proposals in to
him by Friday, April 15. The next open forum is scheduled for Monday, April 18 at 4:30 in Chambers gallery.

Despite the discord of the first forum, Gould felt that “with certain changes in (the PCSC) proposal, it would be
acceptable to the student body.” He specified that those changes might include rewriting the opening sentences of the proposal to
make more clear “that the bottom line is that a student has the natural right to select the house at
which he wishes to (Continued on page 4)

Inside This Week
- Drinking Focus: read about the student poll and details on the proposed drinking age law. See page 3.
- Human Sexuality: presentations spark heated discussion. Read the summaries on page 5.
- Pie ASSaSSiNS: Delts throw for dough. Read a personal account on page 6.
- Booze Brothers: BB frolics on Patterson Court. See page 7.
- Baseball: Wildcats nearly pull off upset. Page 9.
- Opinions: Revell blasts ideological imperialism. Page 11.

The Proposal...
We believe self-selection is a viable part of Davidson College’s social system. We believe that fraternities are important to both
Patterson Court and to the College and community in general; that the alternative of total self-selection clubs is essential. We
furthermore believe that it is a freshman’s natural right to select responsibly the house he wishesTo join; and that it
is a fraternity’s natural right to be selective. We therefore propose that the present social system, called Self-Selection, be more
openly and accurately defined through re-wording the catalogue, and through an open, honest education of the freshmen during orientation. In
addition to fraternities extending “oral encouragements,” the Court fraternities should be allowed to openly confront or challenge an unencouraged shotgunner,
but that no Patterson Court house should actively discourage a student. The freshmen must be made aware of the extra
effort and added responsibility of joining a Patterson Court fraternity. We believe this proposal to be representative of the majority
of the Patterson Court and the student body.

... and the Catalogue alteration

A proposal for the 1984-85 Davidson College Catalogue’s description of Patterson Court: keep the first paragraph of “Patterson Court” (p.
25 of the 1982-83 Catalogue) but re-word the second paragraph as follows:

Affiliation with the Patterson Court eating houses is based on individual self-selection. Freshmen are introduced to the Court by open
houses and invitations to meals, and they are invited to big dances and informal parties throughout the year. The four
Court fraternities extend “oral encouragements” to freshmen they wish to pledge in the spring, and very few freshmen pledge a
Patterson Court fraternity without such an encouragement. During March the freshmen select the house they wish to join. All Patterson
Court houses strongly encourage the freshmen to participate in a house's activities and be familiar with a house’s characteristics and
members before the house selection process.

Focus: Drinking Age and Davidson

By MARY HARDING and DAVID RESNIK

The effects of raising the North Carolina drinking age to nineteen will weigh most heavily on three aspects of Davidson’s
social life — freshman hall parties, Patterson Court parties, and the 900 Room. Dean of Students Will Terry said the
College would like to decide its position on the new law by the end of spring, even though the law
would not go into effect until October 19. The Council on Campus and Religious Life will discuss Davidson’s response to
the law. Terry said Davidson must “uphold the law in some manner or way,” but he is not sure how
it will be enforced.

Terry said the College’s biggest responsibility will be educating the student body about the law’s effects on campus. The educational
process will involve off-campus fraternity and Patterson Court house representatives, hall counselors, and Union representatives. Terry believes that “most of
the partying would go on off-campus” if the state raises the drinking age to 21, and this would naturally result
in more drunk driving, he noted.

Will parties disappear with the old drinking age? Associate Dean of Students Sue Ross feels that there will have to
be a College policy if the law is passed. “We would get a lot of advice from students and faculty
if the law is passed. We’ll have to sit down as a community and decide how we can make mutual
agreements about expectations.” Ross feels it will be difficult to regulate and enforce a policy concerning alcohol consumption at Court
parties. “We're not primarily enforcers. We're supporters of a high standard,” she said.

(Continued on page 3) File Photo
