Friday, November 4, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Chambers Cadaver Haunts Medical Students
By JOHN GATHINGS

Although Halloween is over, the ghosts of Davidson remain, keeping an eternal vigil over the college where they spend their
unrestful days. The best-known ghost of Davidson is the Chambers ghost, which reappears in the form of an outline of
the old Chambers Building. However, a more mysterious ghost lurks on the campus, whose lurid story has slowly faded with
the ages, dimly surviving in those few living souls still around and brave enough to tell about it. College Archivist
Chalmers Davidson recounted the events for The Davidsonian.

The macabre tale begins in the 1890s when the North Carolina Medical School was located in Davidson. The dissecting room
or "morgue" of the medical school was in constant need of bodies for experimental purposes. However, during the 1800s, bodies
for experimentation were hard to come by—at least legally. Often students took it upon themselves to obtain the all-important corpses.
It was this solemn motivation that led to a terrifying experience, an incident which gave birth to the malignant horror
of the corpse of Chambers.

On one dark and moonless night in November, a group of young medical school students decided to travel to a
graveyard in search of new corpses for their work. They planned the expedition meticulously, making sure they would be prepared
for whatever they might encounter that evening. They all chipped in some money to hire a hack to take them
to Charlotte at around 8 p.m. The journey to Charlotte took four hours in those days, so it was exactly
midnight when they arrived at the cemetery.

After cautiously searching through the graveyard, they came upon exactly what they hoped to find, a freshly dug grave unmarked
by a tombstone. They reached for their tools and began digging into the fresh, moist clay. After working at a
furious pace, the students soon heard the familiar thud signifying that they had at last reached the object of their
search. Without a minute’s delay, they ripped the cover off the musty, wooden coffin, extracted the cadaver they had so
anxiously sought, and placed it in the carriage. After restoring the site of their clandestine excavation to its original condition,
they fled the scene of their crime in the carriage.

In spite of their precautions, these daring young men were soon faced with the consequences of their crime. The next
day, graveyard attendants discovered that the grave had been tampered with, and after digging up the coffin, they saw that
the body had been removed. Here the story takes a perplexing twist. The students had taken great care to be
sure that the site looked just as it did when they had arrived. This would not seem very difficult since
the grave was a freshly dug one, yet attendants discovered the crime on the very next day. Furthermore, a grave
hidden away in an isolated part of the graveyard with no tombstone would signify little importance. So why all the
sudden interest? Was it perhaps a vengeful spirit driving these humans on to retrieve its disturbed body? Apparently, no one
will ever know. Even a 1929 Charlotte Observer article recounting the morbid events remained without a clue: “What tell-tale evidence
the students left behind, or what they failed to do to make the grave appear as if it had been
unopened, has never been revealed.”

The students soon learned about the investigation and realized what consequences would befall them if the body were discovered in
their possession. They knew that they had to do something, or they would pay a terrible price for their deed.
In a secret meeting, they decided that the hollow, 80-foot-high Chambers building columns would be the perfect hiding place for
the grisly corpse. None of the boys wanted the hideous task of dragging the mutilated body to Chambers and disposing
of it. Finally, they agreed to draw lots. The unlucky winner took the cadaver to Chambers, dragged the burdensome thing
to the forbidden heights of the loft.

From The Green Room:
By TIM WAPLES

Just when American society seemed eternally doomed, an old idea came along to carry the day—College Bowl. Now you can
do your part to fend off social depravity. This week's words of wisdom from the Green Room will have you
spreading the gospel of The Magic of College Bowlers need to know. The hippest College Bowl jive deals with toss-ups.
Don’t forget to “take the slack out” of your buzzer—pushing down just short of the point of no return before
the question is even read. “Rebounds” are important—correctly answering the questions already missed by an opponent—but remember to have “good
form” and wait until the entire question is repeated. Be careful to avoid the “airball,” the answer which misses its
mark by a matter of miles. For example, one unthinking player suggested Monday that Henry Cabot Lodge was the son
of a black slavewoman and an unidentified white man. Earlier this year, aNecrophiliac listed Hungary as an Eastern European country.
While airballs are the bane of the College Bowl hotshot, “good style” — supplying a correct answer after just a
handful of words have been read — is the dream of every aspirant to College Bowl glory. The inevitable confusion
caused by good form and good style has inspired the development of a synonym for the quick interrupt: the “three-pointer.”
Once you get the toss-up, a bonus, and shove the corpse over the edge. Once the body plummeted to the
bottom of the column with an echoing “thunk,” the resourceful young man dumped unslaked lime into the cavity so that
it would eat away all evidence of the terrible transgression. The remains were undisturbed until the 1920s, when two students
hoped to verify the rumors which had since evolved about a body in the columns. After climbing into the column
and digging through a mass of lime, they found a skeleton which was surviving only in scattered pieces. Despite the
time that had passed, the students said some of the muscles on the hands and arms were still in place
and clearly visible. The old Chambers columns have long since been removed, but the question still remains as to whether
the ghost of this violated corpse left with them. Does it perhaps linger to this very day, waiting to prey
upon unsuspecting undergraduates? Is it possible that a tormented soul which came so close to revenge in those long-ago years
still exerts its malevolent power on the campus? Maybe if some brave souls would spend the night in front of
Chambers, over the yet-remaining imprint of those ill-used columns, on a moonless November night, the answer would come back to
haunt them.

Jazz Soars In
By PHILLIP DENNIS

Playing to a positive if passive audience last weekend, the jazz quartet Flight 108 brought popular electric jazz to the
900 Room as a part of Homecoming weekend. The band, led by Fred Story on keyboards, played a variety of
jazz, funk, and Latin tunes along the lines of the Pat Metheny Group, Return to Forever, and Weather Report. Accompanying
Story were guitarist André Ferrari, bassist Ben Williams, and drummer Scott McDonald. Flight 108 functioned well as a unit, presenting
a strong, cohesive sound. In addition, each man had the opportunity to show off his individual skills. As the front
man, Story often took the spotlight, but he did not neglect to share it with the other members. In the
rhythm section, the bassist bounced in front of the stage laying down an intricate, funky base, while the drummer maintained
a powerful sense of forward momentum, inserting subtle but impressive licks wherever appropriate. Story and Ferrari took turns presenting the
melody and soloing while the other filled out the sounds with supportive chords. The musicians demonstrated musical proficiency through the
confidence with which they approached their instruments and the tight but relaxed execution of each piece. Flight 108 tries to
popularize the jazz feel through electronics and light, feel-good melodies. Some criticize this approach, saying the electronics are just gimmicks
and the melodies are trite and predictable. One might also say that by commercializing and trying to appeal to an
audience which will not appreciate jazz, the musicians diminish the music's quality. After the performance, one audience member said, “It
all sounds the same to me. I don’t know where one song ends and the other begins except for they
stop playing and change the title.”

College Bowl Lingo awaits you and your teammates. Bonuses, or boni, are the avenue for quick points, big scores, and
easy wins. Of course, some teams just can’t (or won't) score much on boni, because they are too deeply immersed
in the philosophy of “Beef Trust Bowl.” Named after a legendary 1981 team who played the game ten points at
a time, this year’s ideological successor is the Thundering Amoebi, led by Will Cardwell, the last Beef Trust member still
to be found behind an intramural buzzer. However, with bad luck, any team can play Beef Trust Bowl if they
get boni so difficult that they can be classified as “penalty boni.” For example: Within six feet, how long is
the Great Wall of China? Name the elements of the periodic table — in alphabetical order. Define the world and
give three examples for ten points apiece. When the questions get this tough, you better have a “guru” to fall
back on. Last week you met varsity team guru Gregg Rhodes. One potential successor as spiritual advisor is freshman Richard
Link, who has masterminded Les Idiots Savants to a brief appearance in the Top Ten and an impressive 150 points
per game average. Of course, as far as good old-fashioned coaches go, you can't beat sophomore Steve Hughes, who saw
his Absolute Values win their first game of the season on Monday. In a 95-70 slugfest with the Brainless Wonders,
it took a clutch performance from junior point guard Susie Moore to seal the victory.

Panny Piarart
