The Davidsonian/Friday, September 30, 1983

By REW WILSON

The Humanities Program may undergo major revisions if a proposal submitted by Professor Robert Manning receives approval from the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH). The proposal arrives in Washington, DC, tomorrow to be evaluated. If it is accepted, the Humanities Program will receive up to $300,000 in funds for the proposed restructuring.

Manning worked with both first and second-year humanities faculty members to engineer the proposed changes in the syllabus and in the teaching methods. The main thrust of the proposal is to de-emphasize the broad historical sweep of Humanities and focus more on particular “chunks” of historical or thematic material. English Professor Anthony Abbott stresses that the overriding change in the program will be a shift toward pursuing “different methodologies for different units.”

The revised second-year syllabus includes such major innovations as spending three weeks studying Dostoevski’s *The Brothers Karamazov* and reserving the final month of classes for concentrated study of one modern issue. Professors will oversee topics such as Women’s Issues and World Concerns according to their areas of interest and/or expertise.

As an effort to promote proper expression of ideas through writing, a summertime faculty writing institute will encourage professors to share their knowledge with one another as well as learn how best to teach writing. Dr. Bliss will conduct the proposed writing institute.

Another proposed change is to focus on a three-city area among Florence, Nuremberg, and London in order to discuss developments throughout the ages. First-year Humanities director Max Polley outlines the major first-year chronological approach. The first semester of study will focus on community in Ancient Israel, and the second semester will trace the individual and society in Ancient Greece. He hopes that by studying the why of art and history-making, students may gain a greater appreciation of the age and become better prepared for the second year of study. He also cites the four faculty members who specialize in the Middle Ages, Professors Gibson, Keefe, Smith, and Barnes, as valuable vehicles in the process of establishing a unity in the program.

Four More

By JOHN GATHINGS

Editor’s note: This is the second part of a two-part story on Davidson's new professors for 1983-84.

Wolfgang Christian

Wolfgang Christian arrived at Davidson this year as a new assistant professor in the physics department. Christian received his bachelor’s and doctoral degrees from North Carolina State University. When asked why he became interested in physics he responded, “I find physics fascinating. It gives one the license to dabble in and examine any facet of nature.”

Christian is interested in carrying out research on a limited scale while at Davidson and plans to involve students in the work. “At a small school like Davidson you don’t want to bring in research projects that tie up faculty and make teaching secondary. You want to have small, high-quality research projects that you can involve students in.” To aid in these projects, he is currently at work building the first lasers to be used for research projects in the physics department here. In addition, he is also at work modifying the computers in the physics department to work in conjunction with the lasers. “If the computer doesn’t have the right code to communicate with the equipment, it won’t work,” he said. Once the computers are modified they will be able to automatically control all of the functions of the laser, as well as provide vital data.

Christian is on tenure track here at Davidson and is teaching upper-level physics classes. He plans to continue work at Davidson, both as a teacher and as a coordinator of student research projects.

Susan Keefe

Susan Ann Keefe has joined the History Department as a new assistant professor. She graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and received master’s and doctoral degrees from the University of Toronto, majoring in medieval history. She has just completed a two-year period in which she worked as a Mellon instructor/researcher in history at the California Institute of Technology. She had only half the normal teaching load so that she could spend the rest of her time pursuing research.

While at C.I.T., she researched unpublished manuscripts from the Carolingian Empire in order to understand the rites of the early church. While there, she also became very familiar with certain aspects of the computer, something which she did not expect would have anything to do with her previous work. “While at Toronto, I had no idea that I would ever need a computer,” she said. Once she began working on comparing the 120 medieval manuscripts in her research work she realized that it “allowed me to see relationships which I couldn’t have remembered on my own.”

In addition to research work at the University, she has also spent three summers in Europe studying medieval manuscripts.the first year of study and a continuity between the two years of study. He adds, however, that most of the proposed changes are still in the formative stage. The proposal to the NEH comes after a period of severe questioning of the program’s fate. In 1982, an independent consulting team assessed the Humanities program and concluded, among other things, that the program placed too much emphasis on the Judeo-Christian tradition and paid too little attention to the role of science and technology in the development of Western thought. In a letter of Feb. 3, 1983, Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann notified the faculty of his intentions to make philosophy professor Earl MacCormac single director of the two-year program. Then, in a called faculty meeting, there was a vote of 79-8 in favor of asking Zimmermann to rescind his letter on the basis that it violated a section of the Davidson College Constitution which reads, “The President and Vice President for Academic Affairs share with the faculty responsibility for proposing Educational Program and Policy.” Many Humanities faculty members felt that Zimmermann acted independently and did not consult faculty to a satisfactory degree. Eventually, MacCormac resigned.

In March of 1983, the Steering Committee of the Humanities Program comprised of Professors Abbott, Epes, French, Krentz, Polley, and Shaw distributed an evaluation pamphlet to Humes graduates of classes ’79 through ’84 and current Humes students. The results, included in the NEH proposal, produced no startling evidence either in favor or opposition of the program but helped sound out student and faculty opinions. The evaluation results were one of many considerations in developing the proposed new Humes curriculum. The evaluation, which used a quantitative format with additional room for written input, included such questions as “The Humes Program’s value lay chiefly in its presenting of differing modes of thought.” On a scale of 1 to 5, indicating respectively strong disagreement to strong agreement, that question ranked 13 percent disagreement, 16% neutral, and 71% agreement. The National Endowment for the Humanities will not decide on the proposal until April of 1984. If ratified, the proposal will not go into effect until the 1985-86 academic year.

New Faculty Members Interviewed

She has spent approximately eight years working on her current project, dealing with ancient baptism rites, and hopes to publish it in monograph form sometime in the next two years. After finishing this project she hopes to be able to work on additional research projects. She is enthusiastic about her teaching work. “I would like to challenge their [students’] imaginations because I think that there is so much they can do.” Keefe is on the tenure track at Davidson and is teaching medieval history in regular classes and in the Humanities program.

James C. Walker

James C. Walker is a visiting assistant professor in the psychology department. He graduated from Mercer University and got his Ph.D. from Florida State University. He has served as a post-doctorate fellow at Northwestern University for one year and has spent two years at the Worcester Foundation for Experimental Biology. Most of his research has been in the area of psychobiology. Walker is interested in doing research work at Davidson and has applied for a research grant to work here for the next four years. The focus of his research concerns the way “. . . peripheral receptors work with the brain.” In order to understand this he is doing experiments with the vertebrate regenerative olfactory nerve. Because of its unusual properties, it will reveal new insights into “. . . how the brain encodes information about stimuli.” Walker plans to use two students as assistants in his research, to help with the surgery involved and the study of the experimental results. His work will provide valuable insights into a relatively unexplored field. “There really hasn’t been very much progress made in describing the processes by which it [the olfactory sense] works. Its role in physiology is poorly understood.” Since Walker is a visiting professor his stay at the college will be limited. If the grant comes through, he will be staying until 1987 and will “. . . teach one-third of the time and spend the rest doing research.”

James P. Wooten

James P. Wooten has joined the sociology department and anthropology as a visiting associate professor. His degrees cover a variety of fields, with an undergraduate major in economics and accounting from Brooklyn College, a master’s degree in sociology from Long Island University, and a Ph.D. in urban planning from Columbia University. Wooten said that he felt the need to cover this range of studies because “I have always been concerned with people and I have certainly been concerned with urban problems. I felt that I needed to know the business world in order to understand the structures that underlie the urban world.”