8 Friday, April 29, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Riding Program Reflects Hoffman’s Philosophy
By PEGGY PIEROTTI

Over sixty-five students have participated in Davidson's horseback riding program this year, thirty-seven of whom are currently enrolled. These riders
represent all levels of ability, but program director Nancy Hoffman notes that the majority have had no previous instruction. Riding
courses at Davidson are offered at four levels: beginner, for those with no experience; advanced beginner, for persons who can
already walk, trot, and/or canter; intermediate, for riders who can walk, trot, and canter comfortably; and advanced, for people interested
in competition and jumping. Jumping is also begun at the intermediate level.

Classes are held once a week, and eight lessons complete a Davidson P.E. course. Hoffman teaches all classes, and she
also teaches privately to various students, professors, and area residents. Classes hold between three and five students and are held
at the stables on the lake campus.

Each of the lessons takes approximately two hours. “When we arrive, we first have to clean and saddle our assigned
horse,” said one student. “It's really a great way to get to know your horse before you have to ride
him.” After the students groom and tack the horses, they are walked to the ring for an hour of instruction.
Dorothy Goehring, an advanced beginner, says that “being comfortable is a really good feeling. I don't feel like I'm going
to fall off all the time anymore.” Each lesson advances the student a little farther, concentrating on proper position and
control. After each lesson, the riders cool off and put away the horses.

By assuming this much care for the animals, students always end up with favorites. One girl in the intermediate class
claims, “Milo is the best; his gaits are so smooth.” Other favorites cited are T.G. (That Girl), Tilly, and Tex.

Originally from Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, Hoffman has worked professionally with horses for the past ten years. She comments, however, “I've been
riding, training, and showing horses since I could walk.” Hoffman has been at Davidson since June, although she taught previously
at Wilson College in Pennsylvania. The program here reflects what Hoffman calls her “horsemanship philosophy.” She wants to develop a
responsible riding facility which emphasizes the care and proper treatment of horses as well as riding skills.

Hoffman is seeking donations to improve the facility by adding increased turnout areas for the horses as well as a
new, possibly indoor, ring for shows and foul-weather riding. Unpredictable weather is the program’s greatest drawback, she said. In addition
to the facilities, next year Hoffman plans to form an Intercollegiate Riding Team to compete with such schools as Queens
College and the University of South Carolina. The switch to semesters will help this team because most of the competitions
occur during Davidson's spring break. Hoffman plans to start an annual show for all people who have ridden throughout the
year. “The show,” she said, “would be a fun way to attract people from all over.” Hoffman stresses her desire
to acquire serious, talented riders from the College and surrounding area, especially since many of these people are often unaware
that the stable even exists.

Deliverance Portrays Dueling Worlds
BY CRAIG DETWEILER

Deliverance (1972)
Directed by John Boorman.
Starring Burt Reynolds, Jon Voight, Ned Beatty, Ronny Cox.
109 minutes. ****

Based upon James Dickey’s novel, Deliverance is a harrowing adventure that leaves the participants and the reader drastically affected. What
begins as a retreat from the working world evolves into a bitter struggle for existence. Deliverance concerns conflicts between men
and between their differing societies.

Four Atlanta businessmen take a white-water canoeing trip on the Cahulawassee River to escape the drudgery of their daily nine-to-five
jobs. Their retreat opens innocently with some picking and grinning between a backwoods boy and one of the businessmen. Their
dueling banjos is a lilting celebration of the harmony between the backwoods and the city. Within the beautiful natural landscape,
all appears peaceful and inviting. The four citydwellers expect the only turbulence to occur between themselves and the white-water rapids.
Deliverance begins as a classic struggle between man and nature but evolves into a strategic battle among men. The fight
becomes more foreign against native, city versus country, and civilian opposite savage. The opponents on the river represent their societies
and systems. Individuals within this drama are not to blame for the fighting: it is contrasting customs, morals, and lifestyles
of civilization and nature that cause the turmoil. By undercutting the vacationer’s and the viewer's expectations, Deliverance administers its gripping
effect. Man against fellow man replaces man against the elements. The inhabitants and rulers of the area stalk the businessmen
— foreigners in the Georgia wilderness. Their innocent retreat becomes a relentless, haunting nightmare. Having witnessed the canoers’ harmless intentions,
the viewer is shocked when the backwoods villains enter the quiet surroundings. Torturing and humiliating the Atlantans, the natives repulse
and infuriate the viewer. Looking objectively at the situation, one realizes that “civilized” man would abuse these country bumpkins if
they entered his world. Although the means of rejection and violation may differ, people from all societies attack those who
enter their own private sphere within the world. Because the viewer can readily identify with the urban, middle-class vacationers, Deliverance
becomes an all-too-possible reality. It is a terrifying film because the savage encounter could happen on any weekend camping or
rafting trip. The viewer knows the victims and realizes it could just as easily be himself. Through solid, intense performances
and terse direction, Deliverance becomes a realistic, enthralling film. Made in 1972, it features two actors who became major movie
stars in the latter part of the decade — Jon Voight and Burt Reynolds. Voight creates his character with a
near-perfect combination of vulnerability, adrenaline, and confusion. When his hand pulsates with nervousness during his fight to survive, the viewer
also flinches and jumps. Burt Reynolds delivers the premier performance of his career. Because he had no reputation or stereotype
to fulfill, Reynolds was free to portray his character rather than Burt Reynolds playing a character. Since his box office
bankability, principal performances are the supporting roles of Ned Beatty and Ronny Cox. Beatty's solid job as the fat, embarrassed
victim undoubtedly propelled him toward his current status as one of the busiest, finest, supporting actors. By letting the action
unfold naturally, John Boorman provides superb direction. In the outdoor setting, he wisely directs little attention toward nature with odd
camera angles or techniques: he just documents the harrowing event. Deliverance is brilliant in its film technique, its performances, and
most of all, in its story. The nightmarish adventure of the four friends will leave them, and the viewer, shaken
and drained for quite some time. Please plan to catch this unforgettable experience on Wednesday night in Love Auditorium.

LOOKING FOR A PLACE TO TAKE AIR FORCE ROTC? LOOK HERE:

Not all colleges and universities in the United States have Air Force ROTC programs. And we recognize that many people
want to enter the two or four-year program and are looking for a school where they can take it. Call
or visit one of the AFROTC detachments listed above and ask about the “Crosstown” program. Here are some more facts
that may be of interest:

- Courses are open to college men and women.
- Full scholarships are available that pay tuition, books, and incidental fees, plus $100 a month during the school year.
- You work toward an Air Force commission upon graduation.
- You have an opportunity to serve your country as an Air Force officer.
- You don't have to be enrolled in these schools to attend the AFROTC program there.

Check it out right away. You'll find a brand new kind of opportunity. For more information, call or write: Contact
Capt. Paul Chambers at UNCC, Calvard 3059 (704) 597-4537

ROTC: Gateway to a great way of life.
