Friday, November 11, 1983 / The Davidsonian ~ ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

DC Jazz Ensemble Gives Personal Performance
By ALLISON WILLS

In its eighth year of existence, the Jazz Ensemble has recreated the fun of the big band era at Davidson with golden oldies and festive antics. Despite limited exposure and scarce publicity, there was standing room only in the 900 Room for the ensemble’s premiere performance last weekend.

“I think the reason we’re so popular on campus is that we give a personal kind of performance,” four-year ensemble veteran Bobby Silver said. “I do not think it’s so much the music because Davidson students don’t go home and listen to big band music on their stereo. But when they see their friends playing it, that’s different.”

Under the direction of assistant music professor William Lawing, the 20 musicians give three concerts annually at Davidson and go on tour over spring break. To finance the tour, they perform at private parties on and off campus. This year they will tour with the Wind Ensemble throughout the Midwest, stopping at churches and schools to give concerts and spending the night in people’s homes.

Costumed in black-and-white-checked plastic vests, tennis shoes, and jeans, the group keeps the tone light and informal. “We get so caught up in the fun, that we almost forget about the music,” Silver said. “Jazz is not as tense as a lot of music. You can mess up and no one ever knows.”

Silver explained that most of the members are young and inexperienced with only one bassist, Mary Fant, pursuing a music major. “Mostly, we just do it as an outlet. There aren’t many opportunities to get a group together when we get out of college, and we just enjoy it.”

The ensemble practices about twice a week, with at least one practice a week for each five-person section: sax, trombone, trumpet, and rhythm. They have “classics” such as “Little Brown Jug,” “In the Mood,” and Glenn Miller’s “String of Pearls” that they can play with no practice, and each year they master about 25 new selections.

But beyond musical favorites, the ensemble is also known for its shenanigans. “The trumpets have 50 or 60 different hats which they switch throughout the evening,” Silver said. “And the trombones do the ‘Bonehead,’ which is walking like a crab with their trombones on top of their heads.”

The Jazz Ensemble’s next scheduled appearance is at the PAX Christmas formal, and they will present another 900 Room concert in early February. WDAV broadcasts 900 Room concerts, and tapes of the broadcast are available in the Music Department.

Rupert Barber Finds Creative Outlet In Theater
By DAVID VAN PELT

It is saying something that while 1983 commemorates the twentieth anniversary of the Davidson drama department, it also marks Rupert Barber’s twentieth year as director of the program and chairman of the theatre and speech department.

Since coming to Davidson in 1963, Barber has overseen all drama department productions, directing almost all of them. He was, in fact, the only theater faculty member until assistant professor Joseph Gardner joined the staff in 1977. “It’s really his department,” said Gardner, formerly a student here under Barber. “He brought an organizational gift and solid grasp of fundamentals that has sustained him and the department through a lot of different administrations.”

Barber cites increased theatrical involvement by students as evidence of the growth of the program. “Clearly the department has evolved in the numbers of people interested in theater and the numbers who participate.” He refuses to use professional actors in his plays like many college productions. “I feel very strongly that a college theater program is for students,” he says.

Barber grew up in Alexandria, Louisiana, and recalls theater as a seminal influence in his life. “As a child I put on puppet shows and directed neighborhood children in plays. I always liked to dress up and play roles.” He also lists radio drama as a favorite influence. “It developed my imagination, because I had to recreate the scene.” He still feels that drama which confronts the audience with something besides strict realism, forcing the audience to use its imagination, “is more towards what theater is about.”

Barber received his Bachelor’s degree from Louisiana State University, his Master’s at Columbia, and returned to LSU for his doctorate in theater. He taught at high schools in Louisiana and Hempstead, Long Island before coming to Davidson. His experience at Columbia and on Long Island left him with anAmbivalence toward New York. While he values his time spent there, he says he “found it very stifling.” He still travels to New York at least once a year, but says, “I need to know what is happening in New York, but I’m not frustrated by not being in New York.”

Barber sees theater at Davidson as a continuing challenge. “The Davidson student is very challenging to work with creatively,” he says, adding, “the audience for the most part is really open.” Barber’s creativity is not limited to his responsibilities at Davidson, however. A self-confessed opera buff, he directs productions of an opera group in Charlotte as well as summer theater productions at CPCC in Charlotte. He is also Chairman of the Terradiddles, a professional company of adults who act for children, and has contributed several of his own plays to the company. Referring to his playwriting, he said, “I have a number of projects underway, and the most frustrating part of my life is not having time to work with them.”

Barber has two children, Garry, 18, and Aileen, 15. His wife Carol is a registered nurse who often contributes costume design to his productions. “The neat thing about theater is that you can almost always find a niche somewhere,” Barber said. “I think that unless you have some creative outlet, life is going to be pretty monotonous.”

By MATT MORRIS

Used Cars (1982)
Written and directed by Bob Gale and Robert Zemeckis. Starring Kurt Russell, Jack Warden, and Joseph P. Flaherty.
RATING: ***

Steven Spielberg once said something to the effect that when put to the test, screenwriters Bob Gale and Robert Zemeckis would make it big. If Used Cars is their test (let’s pretend 1941 does not exist), then they get a B-plus with a note that says, “Keep trying, you’re going in the right direction.”

Like Gale and Zemeckis’s first feature, the silly, likeable I Wanna Hold Your Hand, Used Cars is a flashback to the old Hollywood comedy in the Leo McCarey style. In McCarey’s films, the characters are as inherently hilarious as the situations they find themselves in, producing a broad, slightly brilliant, comedy of manners. A McCarey comedy made no pretense to wit, but it was there anyway.

Used Cars sets out creating certain farcical demands — a used car business is almost too funny in reality to make a good film — and while they don’t always work, the failings of the film give it a deeper texture, a true insanity. The fact that the movie was made is in itself a gag. And for the most part, this approach works — the comedy, the setting, the action all click. Especially hilarious in a Marx Brother way is Walt Disney escapee, Kurt Russell.

Where Used Cars needs a tune-up is in the general direction it takes from genuinely hilarious to genuinely gross. Even Monty Python fans will leave with a bad taste in their mouths. All the same, the good-naturedness of the production smooths over most annoying exercises in bad taste. In view of the recent barrage of Porky’s movies, Used Cars is a great deal. Check it out. After all, so dollars never hurt anybody.

The Wizard Arrives Saturday

The Wizard of Oz, showing this Saturday in the 900 Room, has been rerun so many times on television that it defies legend, myth — everything. That being the case, you may say, “Why the hell is he reviewing that movie?” Maybe this will serve as a reminder of what a marvelous and, in these turbulent exam periods, essential movie The Wizard of Oz is. It makes no difference how many times you’ve seen it. Oz is always a surprise, and on a big screen, it is a technicolor delight.

No film in the history of cinema has been thrown about in critics’ circles, old people’s memories, and little children’s imaginations as much as The Wizard of Oz. No film has so much pure magic frame for frame as The Wizard of Oz. And no movie will ever have anyone as thoroughly endearing, charming, and honest as Judy Garland. Her career was one that went too fast, too maniacally for anyone to handle, let alone a pudgy kid from Grand Rapids, Michigan. Perhaps that is why Oz is so special — the audience roots for her to make it over the rainbow. The “innocent” ideal is long dead, but one can still hold onto the myth presented in The Wizard of Oz. See it again and again and again.