The Davidsonian
Friday, March 18, 1983

Semester Calendar Tentatively Approved
By MARY BETH HARDING

The Faculty Executive Committee has tentatively approved a semester calendar for the 1984-85 school year and is currently circulating it
for faculty response.

According to the proposed calendar, the fall semester would begin Aug. 29 and end Dec. 20. It would include a
one-week fall break in mid-October and a two-day Thanksgiving holiday. A five-day exam period would precede the Christmas holidays. Spring
semester would begin January 14 and end May 3 with a spring break in mid-March. It also includes one reading
day and a five-day examination period.

Because students will be taking four or five classes per semester for a total of nine per year, some concern
has been voiced about the time allotted for exams. Compared to other schools of Davidson’s caliber, the exam period is
short. Princeton allows an eight-day reading period and 12 to 13 days for exams. Amherst has two reading days and
a 14- to 15-day exam period. Duke has a three-day reading period and seven days for exams. Williams schedules five
days for reading period and five for exams. These schools do not self-schedule their exams.

Several faculty members said that since the proposed calendar is now so tentative that they preferred to make no comment
for attribution at this time. According to one faculty member, “One of the advantages of self-scheduled exams is that more
exams can be spread out within a shorter period of time.” Several faculty members wished to stress that the calendar
is very tentative. Students will be asked to respond to it, and the faculty will suggest revisions at a meeting
April 5. They will be responsible for giving final approval to the calendar.

SGA President Tim Johnston and Educational Policy Committee Student Representative Burt Taylor declined to comment on the proposed calendar until
they form a definite opinion.

Educational Policies Committee Chairman John Kelton evaluates the switch from a trimester to semester calendar.

Davidson to Get New Post Office
By ANNE LAMBERT

The Davidson post office will have a new building sometime after the beginning of 1984. The U.S. Postal Service is
currently preparing plans for the new building to be located behind the Peregrine House. Postal authorities speculated previously.

Committees to Review Presidential Applicants
By PAULETTE KURANI

The Faculty, Student, and Trustee Presidential Search Committees will hold a joint meeting on campus to discuss and screen applicants
on March 28. The Trustee Search Committee has already received over 200 nominations for the presidential position.

“We would like to have that person identified and named by May,” said Trustee Committee chairman Ben T. Craig, “but
this is an ambitious goal, and it may not happen.”

“Right now, each member of each committee is making an independent appraisal of the applicants,” explained Craig. “None of the
members consult each other. The whole process at this moment involves individual judgments.”

The information that the various committee members gather is not readily available to the public. All media personnel are immediately
referred to Ben Craig for statements. Craig said that two of the most important things that the committee ensures are
total confidentiality (regarding the applicants and various proceedings), and the chance for all students, faculty, and trustees to voice their
opinions.

“We had over 30 nominations this past week,” claimed Craig, “and the quality of the applicants remains very good. As
time progresses, selection will get harder.”The committee consists of Mary Tabb, Tim Johnston, Elizabeth Brooks, Mike Mauzé, and Ben Williams.
According to SGA President Johnston, the students are taking an active part in the study of the candidates. “I think
they will do a good job. They were chosen among many very qualified students who were highly committed to the
college’s ideals and future to represent the student body. The committee members have definite ideas of where the school should
be 15 years from now.” Mary Tabb said that the students are constantly working on the project. “If we're not
actually meeting, we’re either reviewing applications or gathering more information.”

The Trustee’s Presidential Search Committee consists of Ben T. Craig, Chairman; John Medlin, Vice Chairman; E. Craig Wall, Jr.; and
Fred Stair, ex officio. They have already met twice this month. The Faculty Advisory Committee is made up of professors
David Kaylor, John Kelton, Charles Ratliff, James Swisher, and Gill Holland.

Previously, it was announced that the new post office would open by April 1983. However, planning delays have forced a
change in the relocation date. “It's a definite fact that we're going, [but] the best educated guess I could give
you would be sometime after the first of the year,” said Postmaster John Fisher. Fisher said that the Postal Service
has acquired property for the building and retained the architectural firm Dellinger-Lee Associates to prepare the plans. “We're presently in
the design stage,” said Fisher.

Davidson College owns the current post office building. In 1960, the College granted the U.S. Postal Service a twenty-year lease.
When it expired in 1980, the College granted four subsequent one-year leases to the Postal Service. The current lease expires
April 30, 1984, but the Postal Service will have moved the Davidson Post Office to its new facilities by that
time. Fisher said that the new building will better fill the growing needs of the Davidson community. The post office
currently houses 2400 post office boxes; the new building will contain 600 more to meet demand. The building will be
designed with space and energy conservation in mind. No estimates on the cost of the new facility are available, but
the project will be funded by the U.S. Postal Service. Fisher anticipates no increase in box rental or service costs.

The old post office building's future is uncertain. According to Business Manager Robert Currie, the College is considering plans to
move the Student Store, currently located in the basement of the College Union, to the vacated building. Currie said the
planned move would build rapport between the community and the College. No official plans have been made concerning the use
of the old Student Store space if the move does take place. One suggestion considers allowing College-operated WDAV to expand
its facilities, currently located in part of the Union basement, into the vacated store space. Station Manager John Clark feels
such a move would be a positive step for the station and the College. “I think a move to the
Student Store would be a vast improvement,” he said.

Currently, WDAV's operating facilities comprise 928 square feet, including Community Relations Director Marilyn Gilmore’s office located in Chambers. A move
to the Student Store space would provide WDAV with over 3000 square feet of operating area. The relocation of the
post office will be a big change for many in both the town and the College communities. Postmaster Fisher, a
Davidson post office employee since 1958, will take “a lot of memories” with him when he moves to the new
building next year. “But,” said Fisher, “it’s just like life — everything has to change.”
