The new cadets of the Davidson Military College filed into the long hall. Filed is a bit of a compliment;
it was really more of a stumble. They seemed unused to the stiff boots and commands required to maneuver 1000
people down a narrow corridor and through two small doors. “Ten-shut,” squeaked the former SGA president, who that morning had
learned he was to become captain of cadets. “We've called this meeting to discuss the recent, ah, adjustment of the
curriculum. Brantham Bollings is here as a representative of the Board of Trustees. He would like to say a few
words, but is primarily here to answer your questions. SPEAK YOUR MIND, HO!”

“At ease. Men, I’ve been listening in the dorm — um, barracks for a few hours today and really can’t
see why some of you are so upset,” began the business executive and part-time college trustee. “It’s really for the
best. We have only the interests of the College and the students in mind.”

“We aren’t necessarily upset with the idea, Sir. We’re just a little surprised. That’s all,” said a student and one-time
semi-activist. “We hadn’t heard anything about this until our orders came through over break. Why weren’t any students consulted about
this before you made the change?”

“Well, there weren’t any around, for one thing,” said the mogul in his best I-just-don’t-see-how-I-can-approve-this-loan voice. “We usually roll in
for our meetings after y’all finish your exams so as not to disturb you with all our carryings-on. You wouldn’t
want us old folks walking through y’all’s frisbee games, would you? By the time we got here all you young
folks were in Florida drinking beers, which proves what we did was really necessary. I’m sure you’ll learn to prefer
Brasso to Bud. I have. It really wouldn’t have mattered much if you had been here anyway. The alumni wanted
this and so did we. The faculty may be a little put out by the Boot Camp requirement, but hell,
they can quit, right?” he guffawed.

“I suppose they could, those who are left. But I doubt they’d really like to,” said the student sheepishly. “Did
the Trustees find out how the faculty felt before they went ahead with the ‘readjustment’?”

“Let me set you straight on this—professors are employees of the College and the College is the Trustees. If we
decide there’s a change to be made, we make it. It’s as simple as that. They’re only interested in getting
boring articles published in some dang-fool rag nobody ever reads and usually doesn’t even have a sports page. Why should
we give a hang for what they think? They don’t give a hoot about developing good Southern gentlemen. That’s what
this institution is really about. And now that we’ve shipped the women back to Queens, y’all can concentrate on that
instead of having wild parties and being rude at basketball games.”

“I’m still a little perplexed about the suddenness of this decision. Isn’t there some way you could have let the
students know a little beforehand about what you were thinking?” the student pressed.

“Well now, we both know what would have happened then. Y’all would have gotten yourselves all upset and mad, chewed
about it for weeks in a dozen ‘advisory committees,’ and then we would have gone ahead and done it anyway.
Isn’t it really better to have it done all quickly and cleanly in an efficient operation? God, somebody may even
have filed suit, and it would have gotten in the papers! Can you imagine anything more terrible!”“Besides, there were a
whole mess of factors that went into this decision that you wouldn’t have wanted to bother with. Rather than have
to discuss any of the boring details, we thought we’d just spring it as a total surprise. I should think
you’d be grateful to us for not burdening y’all with that mess. This way, y’all can worry about the studies
and we’ll worry about the College. At least until you graduate and future students—ah, I mean cadets—call you for donations
to the alumni fund. We’ll value your input then.”

Jeff Mann ’84 is a Center/Journalism major

Sex Blind Admission Obligatory

Last week’s Davidsonian quoted Dr. John Griffith, Director of Admissions, as saying, “Sex blind admission would be wrong.” I disagree
with Dr. Griffith. A sex blind admissions policy is not only right; it is morally obligatory. I submit that most
people know in their hearts that it is wrong to discriminate against a person on the basis of sex, race,
color, or sexual preference. It frequently happens, however, that selfishness, fears, practicalities, and prudential matters get in the way of
what the heart knows to be the morally decent way to treat human beings. Thus, it is that economics, tradition,
and selfish concerns for diversity get in the way of embracing a non-discriminatory admissions policy for Davidson.

Now when the pure voice of the heart is silenced by prudential considerations, base motives, or blind emotion, human beings
must turn to either power and its sometimes violent consequences, or to reason as a way to resolve their disputes.
Since the heart has been silenced at Davidson (temporarily, I hope), and because I reject power and violence, I now
offer a rational justification for why it is wrong to take the sex of a person into account in admissions.

Before stating my argument it will be necessary for me to briefly clarify what I mean by an existential attribute.
An attribute is holistic, nondeterministic, and teleological. In other words, it is holistic in the sense that it applies to
the whole individual and not merely to a part. It is nondeterministic in the sense that the individual freely chooses
to have or not to have the attribute. And, an existential attribute is teleological in the sense that it helps
to define a person’s essence in terms of willed goals, projects, and values. An existential attribute should be distinguished from
a natural attribute, which is particulate, deterministic, and mechanistic. Being charitable, kind, or understanding would be good examples of an
existential attribute. Being six feet tall, Caucasian, or female would be examples of natural attributes.

My argument has five premises.

Premise 1: A person ought to be treated with dignity and respect.
Premise 2: One ought not do what is incompatible with what one ought to do.
Premise 3: To treat a person with dignity and respect is to treat that person only under the aspect of
personhood.
Premise 4: To treat a person under the aspect of personhood is to treat that person only with respect to
existential attributes.
Premise 5: A person’s biological sex is a natural rather than an existential attribute.

It follows validly from these premises that one ought not to treat persons on the basis of biological sex, and
thus that one ought not to have an admissions policy that evaluates persons on the basis of sex, even in
(Continued on next page)

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 4 February 1983
