Wildcat Ten Cruise at .500 Clip
By SCOTT BEAVER ‘84

The Davidson wrestling team began their regular season this past week, splitting four matches in tri-meets. Last Wednesday, Davidson beat
Furman 42-15, and lost to VMI 34-9. The following Saturday, the Wildcats edged Elon 23-21, and fell to Livingstone 31-10.

In the initial tri-meet, Davidson cruised past Furman on the strength of three pins. Junior John Breidenstine (142) pinned the
Paladins’ Buck Coleman in 2:07. Sophomore Mike Keeley (158) won by fall over Sam Payne in 3:41, and junior Tom
Hissam (177) pinned Mark Reises at the 2:28 mark. Davidson also got wins from freshman Clay Carroll, who decisioned Dave
Guytao, 5-4, and sophomore Bob McCullen, who beat Dave Smith 10-3.

In the second match, the VMI loss, Davidson got only three wins. Sophomore Tom Oddo defeated Greg Harris 10-4. Breidenstine
decisioned Matt Martin 8-1, and Hissam downed Duke Pickett, 9-2. Davidson suffered forfeits at the 126 and heavyweight classifications.

In the second tri-meet, the Cats avenged a close loss last year to Elon by slipping past the Fighting Christians
23-21. Oddo remained undefeated, beating Barry Cox 10-3. Hissam, who edged Mark Joy 2-1, remained undefeated as well. Breidenstine won
handily, 15-3, and Keeley won 9-6. Freshman Bill Oldham won a key decision over Phil Williams, 2-1.

Against Livingstone, Oddo remained unbeaten (a 12-5 decision over Kevin Boyd) as did Hissam, who beat William Wright 4-2. That
brought the Wildcats' record to 2-2 on the year.

First-year Coach Vince Arduini remains pleased with his team’s performance to date. “I think we're coming along well,” said Arduini.
He was especially pleased considering the relative youth of the team, which includes four freshmen and one senior (co-captain Chris
Tiernan). Arduini, however, cites the leadership of Tiernan and Breidenstine as the major reason for the team’s success thus far.
“I can’t say enough about the leadership job those guys have done, in the off-season and in practice. That’s really
been a help to me in my first year here. Both guys have been wrestling since they've been here, and
their leadership helps make up for some of the other guys’ inexperience.”

Several individuals have posted impressive records in the early season. Chief among these are Oddo (7-0) and Hissam (6-0). Breidenstine
is 6-1.

From the Locker Room
By STEVE SOUD ’84

Resting deep within the confines of the basketball locker room, perched delicately on a table and leaning gently against a
wall, is the key to Davidson basketball’s NCAA hopes. Amidst the bustle and swirl of post-game confusion, it stands in
the middle of the room, unmoving. Although it has no apparent name or title, it has come to be known
as “The Pyramid.”

The Pyramid, quite unlike anything at Giza, is not a pyramid at all. It is, rather, a triangle of thick,
red plastic. Quite unlike anything at Giza, it is not a monument to any powerful human being. It is, rather,
a signpost of a team that tips precariously close to falling short of its goals. The Pyramid is a sort
of hierarchy of objectives that point in one direction—an NCAA playoff berth. It was devised by the coaching staff as
both a monitor of the team’s progress and a set of goals for which the team might strive.

As you might expect, a 7-8 overall record has not really done The Pyramid justice. Of the 14 categories on
The Pyramid, the team has only reached two. In the preseason, they achieved their team mile time with six seconds
to spare, an amazing feat. Unfortunately, it has little overbearing significance on the won-lost record. The only other statistic the
team is matching is the turnovers-forced box. The goal is to force 14 turnovers per game, and they’re beating that
at a solid 15.5 clip.

It’s too bad that's where the pluses stop and the minuses begin. There are three statistics which manifest the team’s
problems. The one point—and note that it is at the base of The Pyramid—that has hampered the Wildcats most...is their
own field goal percentage. The goal is a modest 52 percent, but the team is far below that kind of
consistency, as they are shooting a meager 45 percent from the field. If they were blowing everyone off the court,
they could get by with 45 percent shooting, but in a season in which they’re 4-4 in games decided by
three or fewer points, the field goal percentage is a major problem. A few shots here, a few shots there,
and suddenly Davidson is 6-2 or 7-1 in close games. Against East Tennessee, both of the Wilsons had shots roll
about the rim before deciding to fall out. They could have made the difference in the game.

The second of the “mis-statistics” is the rebounding margin. The Wildcats are -10 on this count. Instead of outrebounding opponents
by 5 rpg, they're being outrebounded by 5 rpg. If Cliff Tribus had rebounded a missed free throw with 1:09
left against Appalachian, chances are Davidson would have won in regulation. Tribus, however, is not the only one muffing block-out
assignments; his is only the outstanding symptom of a team ailment. The 29-34 rebounding margin is representative of that.

Finally, the team is nowhere near its ambitious ppg scoring margin over opponents. On the basis of the 79-39 loss
at DePaul alone, the team could spend several games making that up. Add on the upper teen margins of the
losses to Wake Forest and George Washington, and the 11 ppg discrepancy between goal and actuality is a little more
understandable, if not more easily excusable.

Concurrently, these three foundational problems have led to shortcomings at the top of The Pyramid. In order for the Wildcats
to win eight road games, they must win five of their next six away games. That includes games at South
Carolina, Marshall, East Tennessee, Appalachian, and Western Carolina. Not one is a sure win. In order to win 12 Southern
Conference games, they must win 9 of their next 10 SC games, including 5 games on the road. It will
not be at all easy.

If the Wildcats plan to attain any of the goals of The Pyramid, they must at the very least attain
consistency. That's been the most pervasive problem all season. When Tribus plays well, Kenny Wilson doesn’t. Consider, for example, the
most recent two games, in which Wilson and Tribus totaled 31 and 30 points. Unfortunately, as Wilson scored 23 against
UT-C, Tribus scored a dismal 4 points. Conversely, as Tribus scored 26 Monday night against East Tennessee, Wilson could muster
only 8. Frankly, John Carroll is the only player who has played consistently of late.

If the team is to gain consistency, they must at first concentrate on improving with each game. They must commit
each loss to the past, and look at each upcoming game as a chance for improvement. Only then can they
become true championship material.

It was about this time last year that Davidson lost three consecutive Johnston Gym games to East Tennessee, Marshall, and
then UT-C. They nevertheless forgot the losses and did improve with each game, although they never quite became championship material.
This year, however, they have The Pyramid, which will quietly point toward that long, elusive Southern Conference championship as long
as they keep the faith.

OUT SCORE OPPONENTS BY 8 OR MORE 60-63
COMMIT 14 OR FEWER FOULS 19
FORCE 14 OR MORE TURNOVERS 15.5
OUT REBOUND OPPONENTS BY 5 TURNOVERS
SHOOT 75% OR BETTER FROM THE FOUL LINE
COMMIT 10 OR FEWER 14
SHOOT 20 OR MORE FOUL SHOTS 19.2
MAKE 14 OR MORE ASSISTS 12
SHOOT 52% OR BETTER FROM THE FIELD 45%
FORCE OPPONENTS TO SHOOT LESS THAN 44% FROM THE FIELD 47%

A copy of The Pyramid that the basketball office releases after each game. It does not include the categories team
mile time (5:11), team GPA (?), away wins, conference wins, and the final goal of the NCAA tournament.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 21 January 1983 - 15
