The Davidsonian

Friday, March 25, 1983

SGA Considers Prose Faculty Evaluation Forms

By JIM CROWE

The SGA will investigate the development of a new student faculty evaluation form and will try to offer an alternative to the straight prose form adopted by the Faculty last term, according to Little Dorm Senator Pete Skillern.

Skillern and Sophomore Senator Elfen Papadeas will head the SGA effort to develop an alternative form aimed at increasing student input in the faculty evaluation process.

The Faculty approved a Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) proposal to drop the Illinois Course Evaluation System (ICES) form from student course evaluations on February 1. The ICES forms had been in use since 1979. The Faculty also voted to adopt a prose evaluation form.

SGA President Tim Johnston said that the SGA was dissatisfied with the faculty proposal. He said a committee of several senators had investigated the implementation of an evaluation form by the SGA but decided to hold back on the effort last term due to lack of time to organize.

Skillern said that the SGA designed a form last term and planned a distribution program. However, Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann advised the SGA against the use of a program put together so quickly, according to Skillern.

Skillern said, “I was upset at the apathy I saw in students. We were almost like dullards in coming to the conclusion that we needed to take action.”

The SGA approved a proposal by Skillern and Papadeas to offer a modified prose form to the Faculty on Wednesday. The two senators will present the student proposal when the evaluation process is discussed at a faculty meeting on April 30.

At the SGA meeting on Wednesday, Skillern detailed the difficulties in using either the ICES forms or the prose forms. He said that faculty objections to the non-specific nature of the general questions on ICES were valid, but that the prose form would be too unwieldy for use by Zimmermann in evaluation. Skillern firmly stated, “It is important for us to take a stand on this issue, because if we don’t, student input will be negated.”

The SGA form will incorporate specific questions under the headings of the general questions used in the ICES forms and will include a prose section. Skillern feels that this combination will allow the direct specificity the Faculty seeks and a manageable structure through which Zimmermann can receive student input.

Papadeas pointed out that if Zimmermann cannot use the masses of prose forms, student input in the faculty evaluation process will be nonexistent. Skillern said that if the Faculty rejects the SGA form and the prose form system stands, an alternative might be to hire an administrator to compile the prose forms.

Eblin And Overby Win Fellowships

By Duncan Fraser

Two Davidson College seniors, Scott Eblin of Huntington, W.Va. and Marvin Overby of Falmouth, Va., have been awarded $10,000 Thomas J. Watson Fellowships for a year of independent study and travel abroad.

The two were among 70 graduating seniors, representing 50 colleges and universities nationwide, chosen by the Thomas J. Watson Foundation from 175 finalists nominated for the award by their institutions.

Eblin will use his grant to study the impact of President Reagan’s Caribbean Basin initiative program in Jamaica, Belize, and Dominica. The initiative is an innovative blend of trade concessions, foreign aid, and private investment. “The plan represents an untested approach,” Eblin said. “I want to spend some time in the Caribbean nations, just to see if it works.”

Eblin, an international relations major who is considering a career with the State Department, has already passed the Foreign Service examinations. He is a North Carolina Fellow, the recipient of a Guttman Scholarship, and has served as an SGA senator, an announcer for WDAV-FM, and a writer for The Davidsonian.

He is also a member of Kappa Alpha, the Young Democrats, and has been active in intramural sports, serving as a basketball coach in a YMCA league.

Overby plans to spend next year studying the role of the European Economic Community in relations between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. He will spend much of the time in Dublin and Belfast, and will also travel to Belgium and France, where major offices of the EEC are located.

“I’m ready to go tomorrow,” he said. “Unfortunately, I still have to graduate first.”

A political science major at Davidson, Overby has been a college debater and a member of Davidson’s College Bowl team. He also is a North Carolina Fellow, a Dana Scholar and a Bell Scholar.

Overby has served as a hall counselor, a member of the board of student advisers for Piedmont Bank, and a member of the Eumenean Society and College Democrats. He has been active in intramural sports, and is a member of Delta Sigma Rho-Tau Kappa Alpha, a national honorary forensics society.

The Thomas J. Watson Fellowship Program was begun in 1968 to provide an opportunity for a focused and disciplined international experience of the recipients’ own choosing. It is funded by the Thomas J. Watson Foundation, and it seeks individuals who have qualities of intelligence, integrity, maturity, leadership ability and potential for excellence within a chosen field.

We Want You to Work for the Davidsonian

We need writers in news, features, sports, and opinions.

We also need more photographers and layout people.

We offer paying jobs in circulation, advertising, business, and typesetting.

If you are looking for fun, or maybe just a little money, give the Davidsonian a chance.

Call now at 892-2000 Extensions 148 and 149.