Rock and Roll Infested by Sin (CPS) - Rock ’n’ roll is getting some hard knocks on campuses from coast
to coast from Bible-waving, record-burning evangelists warning students of what Anthony, for one, calls music’s “Satanic influence.” Almost out of
the blue last term, the preachers began showing up on campuses everywhere. Georgia evangelist Billy Adams, for instance, has destroyed
over $200,000 in rock vinyl “because it preaches the use of drugs, illicit sex, the occult, and rebellion.” Adams preaches
on campuses throughout the South, often playing AC/DC, Kiss, and The Beatles to prove his point.

Jed Smock, perhaps the dean of the campus circuit riders, has recently added rock ’n’ roll to his already-impassioned anti-sex
and drugs sermons at schools from Virginia to Kentucky to New Mexico State. None of the anti-rockers have trouble drawing
crowds. Some evangelists have even enjoyed bigger crowds by specializing in the evils of rock. Nick Pappis, a “Christian record
producer” from Florida, conducts college discussions about musicians using symbolism and subliminalism to “brainwash” listeners. Many album covers, Pappis explains,
show occult symbols like pentagrams, pyramids, and broken crosses that can coerce young people into evil.

The Electric Light Orchestra, Black Oak Arkansas, and other groups, he charges, use backward masking—recording messages backward on a record—to
convey demonic urges to unwary listeners. “Another One Bites the Dust” by Queen, Pappis says, actually says “Satan must have
no limit” when portions of it are played backwards. Greg Anthony contends the Rolling Stones’s “Sympathy for the Devil” and
“Dancin’ with Mr. D.,” in addition to songs by Led Zeppelin and AC/DC, are similar “tributes to Satan.”

“Stairway to Heaven” sounds like “My sweet Satan, no other made a path, for it makes me sad, whose power
is Satan” when played in reverse, Anthony claims. “We’re concerned not only with the lyrics and album covers, but also
with the lifestyles of the musicians and their intentions,” says Dan Peters, who along with his two brothers lectures students
about rock ’n’ roll. “Many of the rock musicians today enjoy singing about things that are immoral and illegal, such
as drugs and sex. The Village People, for instance, have publicly said that they want to make gay people more
acceptable through their music.”

No one is precisely sure why the anti-rock crusades have appeared now. “I guess it’s an offshoot of the New
Right and various fundamentalist Christian movements that have become popular recently,” says George Ward of Bowling Green University’s Center for
the Study of Popular Culture. “I can see where a lot of people—particularly fundamentalist Christians—might say rock ’n’ roll is
offensive, but it’s a long way to say that there’s some kind of plot to convert people to Satan through
music.”

“And as far as little devils and demonic signs on the album jackets go,” says Warner Records spokesman Bob Merlis,
“you can see them, so how could they be secret attempts to brainwash people.”

Plott (Continued from page 1)

The scholarship will allow students to leave Davidson for private lessons, study abroad, or participation in summer music programs. “There
will be as many different ways of spending the money as there are scholarship holders,” said Powers. The money can
be used to pay tuition, and recipients will still be eligible for financial aid. A committee acting under the authority
of the Admissions and Music departments will select the recipients and make further clarifications concerning the scholarship. Powers feels that
the Plott Scholarship will give Davidson an “opportunity to have a string orchestra.” Although none of the money will be
used to improve the music department itself, College...Union Director Shaw Smith believes that the scholarship may have “secondary effects.” He
admits that “Davidson couldn’t possibly afford a conservatorium,” but he thinks the scholarship will generate more interest in music. Davidson
started promoting the concert last September. The Department of Development sent out brochures to alumni, parents, friends of the college,
and business leaders. The college also promoted the concert at alumni meetings. New York Philharmonic oboist Joseph Robinson ’62 was
also instrumental in raising funds for the scholarship.

Memorial (Continued from page 1)

It was held in Charlotte again after it “got too big,” according to Smith.

Concert History

The Donald Plott Memorial Concert was originally planned as an Artist Series event, but it “got to growing,” said Smith.
Mrs. Louise Martin, the widow of former College President David Grier Martin, chatted with Workman and Robinson two years ago
about the possibility of bringing them back to Davidson to perform. A year later, the Trustees decided to award honorary
degrees to Robinson and Workman. The concert organizers then scheduled the event so that it coincided with convocation. Director of
the Atlanta Symphony Robert Shaw was supposed to conduct the performance, but he backed out. Smith says Robinson exclaimed, “Zubin
will come!” Robinson got Mehta to come as well as co-workers Karl Haas and announcer for the New York Philharmonic
Martin Bookspan. He also promoted the concert wherever he went. “Joe was the moving spirit,” said Smith. Robinson put together
the orchestra with aid from Concertmistress and former Davidson music professor Elaine Richey and William Lawing ’73. Besides Robinson and
Workman, Davidson alumni Stephen B. Shipps ’78, David Edwards ’61, and William Lawing ’73 also performed in the concert. Steve
Gray ’82 sang bass in Sunday’s convocation. Davidson students also performed at convocation. Jane Redd ’84 and Neal Biggers ’83
played organ; Elizabeth Herron ’83 performed on the horn; Joyce Robinson ’83 sang mezzo-soprano; and Hendrick van Deventer ’85 blew
the trumpet. Laura McDonald drew enthusiastic applause for her interpretation of a Brahms rhapsody. The program for convocation also featured
pieces by Bach, Mozart, and Beethoven. The Plott Concert’s all-Bach program included Cantatas 50, 56, and 82 and the Sinfonia
for Oboe, Strings, and Continuo from the “Easter Oratorio.”

Mehta replaced Leonard Bernstein as music director of the New York Philharmonic five years ago, after 16 years as music
director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic. He also serves as music director of the Israel Philharmonic, and he occasionally guest
conducts such world-class orchestras as the Berlin Philharmonic, the Orchestre de Paris, and the Philadelphia Orchestra. Robinson joined the New
York Philharmonic as principal oboist in 1978 after six seasons as principal with the Atlanta Symphony. He is a former
faculty member of the North Carolina School of the Arts in Winston-Salem, and he was also first oboist with the
Piedmont Chamber Orchestra and the Clarion Wind Quartet. He graduated from Davidson Phi Beta Kappa with a major in English.
Workman, also an English major, went on to earn a diploma in voice performance from the Curtis Institute of Music
in Philadelphia. He joined the Hamburg State Opera in 1965 and assumed his present position in 1975. Workman has sung
with opera companies around the world.

Donald B. Plott died in 1981 while serving in his thirtieth year on the Davidson College faculty. He directed the
nationally recognized Davidson College Male Chorus for 29 years and the Oratorio Singers of Charlotte for 20 years, leaving behind
him a legacy of musicians as widely dispersed as Davidson’s alumni.

“Hi, I’m Larry Hagman. I’m gonna help you break the cigarette habit with my ‘Larry Hagman Special Stop Smokin’ Wrist
Snappin’ Red Rubber Band.’ Get one free from your American Cancer Society.”

CANCER SOCIETY

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 28 January 1983
