8 Friday, March 25, 1983 The Davidsonian FEATURES

Death Penalty Debate Stirs Emotions

By ANDY WILSON

The chairman of North Carolinians Against the Death Penalty and United Methodist minister Tony Clark-Sayer met NC Superior Court Judge Frank Snepp in a one-round unjudged debate sponsored by the Davidson chapter of Amnesty International last Sunday.

Clark-Sayer argued that the death penalty is wrong because it is based on cruelty and expresses cruelty. It is irrevocable and therefore unjust due to the possibility of convicting an innocent person, according to Clark-Sayer. Corporal punishment is unfairly administered because a disproportionate number of blacks and low-income persons are sentenced to die. Clark-Sayer attacked the death penalty on the grounds that it does not deter violent crime and may in fact increase its incidence. Clark-Sayer, a jail chaplain in Asheville, also opposed the death penalty because he believes it conflicts with Christian beliefs. Clark-Sayer presented evidence to support these five points.

Snepp defended capital punishment empirically by outlining the status quo of the death penalty in North Carolina. The death penalty excludes all but convicted first-degree murderers and considers only those cases in which aggravating statutory circumstances grossly outweigh mitigating circumstances. Examples of the former circumstances are especially heinous, atrocious, or cruel killings, killing a law enforcement officer, and committing first-degree murder while serving a sentence for a previous first-degree murder. Examples of mitigating circumstances include having a clean criminal record, acting under mental or emotional disturbance, and acting as an accomplice or accessory to the fact.

Snepp stressed the importance of the death penalty as the most effective means of upholding the rights and security of all citizens. In response to Clark-Sayer’s accusation that capital punishment is not necessarily a deterrent, Snepp admitted that punishment by death “doesn’t deter anyone except the one who is executed.” Responding to another of Clark-Sayer’s objections, Snepp defended the United States system of justice saying, “We have more safeguards against convicting an innocent person than any other civilization.” Snepp argued for capital punishment as the most practically expedient and logical way of dealing with persons who do not comply with the rights and restrictions which all citizens share equally.

Clark-Sayer defended his position by giving examples of breaches and distortions of judicial expedience; in 1949 a Connecticut man was executed minutes before another man exonerated him with a confession of guilt. Of the 31 persons sentenced to death in NC in 1980, two were found guilty by the Supreme Court. Clark-Sayer argued the room for error was extreme in these “incredibly subjective” cases.

Dedicated Core

By JEFF DEMPSEY and FRED BROADWELL

One evening this past fall a handful of students gathered in Elizabeth Kiss’s room to talk about an organization called Amnesty International. Many of those there, who later formed the core group of Davidson’s A.I. chapter, had not even heard of Amnesty International at that time. “The feeling of ignorance,” said Kiss when asked why she felt the need for A.I. here, “tends to prevent people, especially intellectuals, from taking initiative on human rights questions. None of us [the core group] are experts on human rights, and none of us can give adequate philosophical justifications for our stands on human rights. But this doesn’t prevent us from working on these issues.”

Kiss has been an independent member of A.I. since high school, and she often thought about joining a local Amnesty International group. While in France her junior year, Kiss helped form a coalition on El Salvador and did the same here at Davidson upon her return in the spring. Out of these experiences, she says, grew the idea of forming an A.I. campus group. “What is particularly admirable about A.I.,” Kiss said, “is that it is as free of politics and ideology as possible. Amnesty International focuses on the problem of oppressed people, and everyone may work for A.I. with a free conscience.”

Publicity co-chairman John Krotchko joined A.I. as a result of an increased international awareness which he gained while studying in India. “My knowledge of international problems meant that perhaps I could contribute more to Amnesty than to any other service organization at Davidson,” Krotchko said. Lindsay Biddle sees her decision to join A.I. in a similar light.Advanced arguments which helped their cause but hurt their case. Snepps pointed out the judicial non-sequitur which non-capital punishment encompasses: 1st degree murder with aggravating circumstances is life imprisonment, what good will it do to re-sentence him to life supposing he murders again while serving sentence? Yet he admitted that of late the judicial process for death penalty cases has become “a charade” and that a prisoner might spend a good deal of his lifetime sentence in appeals anyway. Clark-Sayer proposed that punishment by execution is actually murder, and moreover, collective murder, but admitted also that to allow a repeat offender the opportunity to escape and kill again is also collective condonation of murder. Judge Snepps emphasized that the present system, though fallible, is the most efficacious of the alternatives because it allows for legal retribution instead of giving credence to personal vendetta. “I’ve seen jurors deliver the death penalty with tears in their eyes, all of them — because they knew what they had to do,” Snepps confided, though dispassionately. Having worked with the judicial system for many years, Snepps offers an experienced knowledge of the death penalty and a comfortable acceptance of it as “the only way.” Clark-Sayer offered as his final argument his belief that no man is beyond redemption, and that to take a man’s life as an act of legal recourse is to deny that redemption.

Group Spurs AI Growth

Broader sense. “Sooner or later,” Biddle said, “you realize that you have to take what you learn at Davidson and apply it to the world.” French Professor Lauren Yoder has been a member of A.I. for four years already. “I first read about Amnesty International in an article in France five years ago. I was impressed that A.I. was a non-political, non-partisan human rights organization.” Yoder gained first-hand experience with the tragic side of the human rights issue when a Mauritanian friend was hanged for his political views. “I’ve always wondered,” Yoder said, “that if A.I. had known of his case, he might not have been hanged.” Core member Chris Blake knew about Amnesty and the overall human rights issue before he came to Davidson. In high school, Blake wrote a thesis examining statistical studies on the deterrent effect of capital punishment. Blake’s prior knowledge of Amnesty’s purpose and structure has been the exception at Davidson; most Davidson students first learned of A.I.’s work when the group was formed this year. The student response to the new chapter has been generally quite good. “The success of the group,” commented Yoder, “flies in the face of the assertion that Davidson suffers from a general apathy. People in the Davidson community are concerned about rights violations — the high degree of awareness both surprised and pleased me.” “I would like to get everyone involved,” said Krotchko. “Only a small percentage of the campus has responded, though those who have responded have shown a great deal of enthusiasm. Yet so many don’t give our effort the slightest heed whatever, and this disappoints me.” Foremost in the minds of all A.I. members is the question of A.I.’s future on campus. “I hope very much,” said Kiss, “to see the chapter continue and become a Davidson institution. Groups like A.I. are indispensable to academic communities because these kinds of groups can change people’s lives as much as education.” Blake commented that “Davidson has a tendency to be an intense tunnel-vision experience for many people, and groups like A.I. serve the essential role of keeping us aware of the world in an age of growing interdependence.” But what will it take for A.I. to continue to be active at Davidson? “I think it will require strong leadership and commitment on behalf of 10-12 people to stimulate interest and activity on campus,” said Yoder. “The future of A.I.,” added Krotchko, “will depend on the amount of personal contact that the group cultivates with people on campus and in the community. As long as we maintain a very credible and organized group, we can look forward to an active organization that includes members of the community and professors as well as students.” “I have been very much encouraged by the student response to A.I.,” said Kiss, “particularly within the core group. Many people who had never before thought about human rights have shown a great commitment this year. Also, we have received a generally serious reaction from the student body at large.” Anyone interested in working with A.I. should please contact Elizabeth Kiss, Debbie Williams, or Hunter Monroe soon.