2 Friday, October 14, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Patterson, Taylor Deny Presidential Rumors

Two possible candidates for Davidson’s new College President denied rumors yesterday that they are being considered for the position by
the Presidential Search Committee. W. Brown Patterson, an Episcopal minister and Dean at the University of the South in Sewanee,
Tennessee, said that the rumor “must be a mistake. I’m not a candidate and I haven’t even applied. I’m happy
where I am.” Randy Taylor ’51, minister of Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte and moderator of the newly united
Presbyterian church and Davidson alumnus, also denied the rumor. “I have no knowledge of it,” said Taylor. “It’s a false
rumor.”

Chairman of the Presidential Search Committee Ben T. Craig said the selection committee “was still considering approximately 200 candidates. We've
made a great deal of progress, but we're far from a short list of candidates.” The Committee has so far
notified 50 names out of the approximately 350 submitted so far, said Craig. He added that they hope to choose
the new president by the “end of the year. But we’re not putting ourselves under any deadlines,” he said.

Talk on Schweitzer Scheduled Oct. 18

International lecturer Colin Stamp will present “Schweitzer: A Man For Our Time?” October 18 at 7:30 p.m. in the 900
Room of the Davidson College Union. Stamp has lectured many times following his work with Schweitzer in the early fifties.
The illustrated lecture will highlight collections of unpublished color slides taken during Stamp’s visit, impressions of Schweitzer, and the unique
jungle hospital operated during the later years of Schweitzer’s life.

Stamp, born in London, graduated from Cambridge in English Literature and Economics. After five years service at sea with the
Royal Navy, he joined American Express in 1946, retiring from that company in 1977 to form his own audio-visual production
house. In the course of his two careers, he has achieved a reputation as a broadcaster, writer, film producer, and
public speaker. He speaks four languages and has traveled widely throughout Europe, Africa, the Middle East, and the Americas. His
eldest son, Robert C. Stamp, was a Dean Rusk scholar at Davidson. Stamp’s visit is sponsored by the College Union.
The lecture is open to the public free of charge.

International Students Discuss Davidson

An informal luncheon in the 900 Room Wednesday brought five of Davidson’s international students together to relate observations, frustrations, discoveries,
and anecdotes about their Davidson experience. The panel was comprised of Marie Christine Belin from France, Shirin Hanafi, a junior
from Pakistan, Ana Tarazona from Spain, Harold Wahl from Germany, and Chien-wen Yu, a junior from China. Sophomore Paulette Kurani,
whose Lebanese descent gives her personal interest in the international scene, introduced and led the discussion.

Although the panelists seemed very pleased with Davidson College, they did not let this tint their perception of America. “Students
here seem aware of the world situation... [but] I think Davidson is an exception for a university in the United
States,” Wahl observed. “In Germany it is very different... people have a political responsibility.” Hanafi shared a similar view: “Living
at Davidson is very different from living in the city. People here are not your average Americans.”

Overseas, the image of Americans is often a composite of stereotypes, old wives’ tales, and sobering truths. “The image of
Americans in Pakistan is based on movies and books — you know, the trashy ones,” Hanafi said. “The French think
Americans are all rich and are very...wasteful. But when I came here I saw that this wasn’t true. Sure, some
of them are, but most aren’t.” The contrasts between Davidson and the educational systems that raised each of the international
students provided a rich source for discussion, while four of the five confessed a more intimate student-teacher relationship was possible
at Davidson than in their own countries. Yu described a very different environment in China. “The classes are very small.
The relation between students and teachers is much closer. You have to study hard. . . . There is no
exam pressure but there is pressure from the professors. There are no tests. Socially there is very little freedom; the
professors are your ‘parents’.”

“Students are more responsible in France,” Belin said. “They have to organize themselves. I had to choose my career at
15.” Tarazona painted a different picture of Spanish students: “There is not much studying. They enjoy life. They don’t start
studying until a week before the [final] exams. I am an exception,” she added with a chuckle.

Tough Liquor Laws Spread Nationwide

(CPS)—This fall’s experiments in clamping down on student drinking — experiments performed almost simultaneously by a huge number of schools
now — have inspired a series of tough new rules on student behavior, but an initial check with colleges across
the country indicates students are willingly adapting to their drier campuses.

“We didn’t have the ‘beer suckers’ that have always been around before,” Mike Jewell, a member of the University of
Kentucky’s Phi Delta Theta house, observed gratefully. His house and all the other Kentucky fraternities agreed to hold dry rushes
for the first time ever this fall. Bar owners near the University of Oklahoma campus arranged to accommodate a crowd
of 5,000 students at a rally to protest the state’s new 21-year-old legal drinking age law. But only 150 students
showed up. Dry rushes and parties elsewhere unfolded without controversy. “I think [the fraternities] are finding it brings good results,
and keeps the people away who only come for the free beer anyway,” observed Jonathan Brant, head of the National
Interfraternity Conference. It also shows “that fraternities are something besides beer busts,” he added. Not all student groups are happy
about the way schools are going about controlling student drinking, however.

Black Poet Cancels Speaking Engagements

Maya Angelou, the black poet scheduled to deliver the fall Reynolds Lecture series, has canceled due to pressure from her
work. Angelou was scheduled to give a reading, a lecture, and possibly an open class in writing. The Public Lectures
Committee will meet the week of October 18 to discuss the committee’s plans. After committee head and Union Director C.
Shaw Smith retired last spring, Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann transferred the
committee chairmanship to the faculty rather than the administration who held it previously; English professor Cynthia Lewis, the current committee
chairman, feels that the committee is now in a position to reevaluate its situation and make beneficial changes. Lewis hopes
to look at the committee’s financial situation in the upcoming meeting and determine how to use its resources well. Lewis
emphasized that she wants to provide lecturers who would best represent the interests of both the faculty and the students.
Lewis welcomes any suggestions for lecturers and said that suggestions can be made either to department heads, student representatives on
the committee (Ted Garner, Suzanne Dickey, Bob Bruce), or to herself.

Wilkins Barbecue and Seafood House
Specializing in Barbecue Beef, Pork, and Brunswick Stew
Also Seafood
1 Mile South of ABC Store in Cornelius
892-3362
