10 Friday, October 7, 1983 / The Davidsonian

SPORTS

The football team in daily practice
Bruce Von Stein

James Madison Crushes Winless Wildcats 50-0

By SCOTT HUIE

One could call last Saturday's game a good old-fashioned football clinic. The main attraction goes by the name James Madison. The guinea pigs call themselves the Davidson Wildcats. In a scoring tantrum, the Dukes methodically trounced 50-0, leaving the Cats winless in four tries.

Summing up the loss, offensive tackle Kirk Gavel explained, “Heck, no one’s jumping for joy over losing by 50 points, but we can’t let this loss and the previous ones get us down. What's killing us are all those little mistakes — blocked kicks, fumbles, botched snaps.”

Little mistakes piled up on each other to lead to disaster, and such disasters occurring deep in Davidson territory lead to a clinic. The team’s field position was so bad — only twice were they able to cross midfield — that maybe they should have just pitched a tent on their 20-yard line. Said Coach Ed Farrell, “The bulk of the problem was the fact that we never really established good field position; we were always pinned in. And consequently, they were able to capitalize rather easily on our mistakes.”

Capitalizing to the tune of seven touchdowns, the Dukes scored only one of them through the long, grind-it-out fashion. One TD came on a blocked punt which was recovered in the end-zone. Another was of the bomb variety. Two were set up by fumbles. And two more came on short drives set up by poor punts.

“As the game got out of hand,” said Farrell, “we tended to make more mistakes. And though I can’t exactly say they ran the score up on us, Madison didn’t exactly roll over and play dead either. I guess they’re just trying to get a better national ranking.”

The only ranking the Cats have to worry about is perhaps one for Mecklenburg county. In four games Davidson has two by air and one on the ground. Particularly distressful is their rushing attack which has been able to grind out only two yards a carry. Against Madison, Davidson rushed for 66 yards on 41 carries.

Farrell, the football coach, also doubles as a psychologist: “There’s a big difference between losing and getting beat. Getting beat is when you do everything you can do and the team simply beats you. That’s been the case a lot this year. I can’t, however, discount the losing part. We’ve made plenty of mistakes and blown some opportunities. And once you find yourself in a hole, you tend to tense up and worry. You want to win so badly, you tend to overcompensate. So in terms of effort, I still see us giving 100 percent. It’s just a matter of relaxing and playing football like I know we can play.”

Playing such football might be possible with the return of tailback David Turner and fullback Horace Manor, a running back tandem that just might be the ingredient needed to salvage a fastly deteriorating running attack. Said Farrell, “Both appear fully recovered which will be a big boost. Manor, who looked particularly impressive against Madison (six carries for 27 yards), will start, and Turner will split time with Mike Cate.”

Tomorrow, Davidson tackles the NAIA Guilford Quakers (2-2), who last year lost to the Cats 35-22. Don’t expect such an offensive battle this year. In four games Guilford has given up only 850 yards in total offense, including a mere 69 last week against Emory and Henry. Said Farrell, “Guilford has been impressive defensively, and in the past few years, they’ve been able to move the ball well against us. But then again, we’ve done the same against them.”

Davidson has defeated the Quakers three straight times. It should be four by tomorrow.

Huie’s Prediction:

Soccer Ends ASU Reign

By BOYD BLACKBURN

On a chilly mountain evening this Wednesday, Davidson soccer whipped the ASU Mountaineers 3-1. Not only was this the crucial conference opener for Davidson, not only did the loss for ASU virtually eliminate their hopes of another championship, and not only was Sean Austin’s fifth straight scoring game, it was the first conference game the Mountaineers had lost at home in eight years. ASU’s reign has ended.

One could sense that ASU wanted this game badly when they entered theStadium with their characteristic boom-shocka-locka chants. They have not allowed a goal this year at home and planned to keep it that way. Both teams played well in the first half. ASU was able to move the ball using either the wing halfbacks on the sideline or a penetrating pass into the middle when Davidson’s halfbacks fell back too far. Coach Slagle got the message out that he wanted passes to the wing halfbacks denied and Davidson's halfbacks pulled up. This created several turnovers. As the end of the half neared, Davidson seemed to be hitting its stride and mounting serious attacks on the ASU goal. However, a Mountaineer picked up a loose ball just outside the penalty box and hit a perfect shot to the outside post. Thus, the first half ended with a big plus on ASU’s side.

A determined Davidson carried the play for most of the second half. Five minutes into the half, they received a direct free kick after an ASU player elbowed Tony Cabrales. Mike Mauzé pushed it over to Wallis Goodman to get around the wall. Goodman hit a rocket which the keeper managed to tip into the post. Austin slipped and fell coming in for the rebound, but it made no difference. The ball had ricocheted into the net. The play was designed only this week. It was simple but very, very sweet. Ten minutes later, the Wildcats took the lead as Mike Lufkin chipped the ball through to a wide-open Cabrales. The ASU defenders stood watching, hoping for an offsides call as Tony slammed it past their goalie. There was no call and Davidson was in the lead for good.

For the last fifteen minutes, Slagle decided to try a 4-4-2 prevent defense which the team had not practiced. There were a few problems and the result was a sustained ASU attack. Davidson’s defense survived the bombardment. In fact, with three seconds left in the game, Austin worked the ball past a desperate keeper well out of position. After three weeks of road games, Davidson returns home tomorrow at 2:00 against Warren Wilson. Davidson’s record is 1-0 in the conference, 6-1-1 overall.

---

**Inexperience Tests 1984 Baseball Team**

By FRANK SCHWALBE

The theme for the 1984 Wildcat baseball team is “Young.” Of 17 members from last year’s team, only six — two seniors and four sophomores — will return. Freshmen will comprise the rest of the 20-man roster. It is not surprising that baseball Coach George Greer has concentrated on the fundamentals of baseball. “I like to characterize myself as a teacher,” said Greer. “A coach coaches games, and we've only had one game.” Greer looks toward the returning members for leadership and so far is pleased. “They’ve done everything I expected of them so far,” he said. “They’ve provided leadership.” This leadership is important since the freshmen are experienced high school baseball players but do not know what to expect in college baseball.

“The biggest question mark of the team this year is the pitching,” Greer said. “If we can get good pitching and coaching, we’ll be competitive.” The three experienced pitchers are Scott Redding, Chip Knox, and Scott Weaver. In addition, Greer is watching seven rookie hurlers. The team’s first scrimmage was with Catawba on Sept. 29. They played three three-inning games with mixed results for the Cats. The defense was better than Greer expected but the team lacked hitting. “It’s not surprising though,” explained Greer, “because we've been basically working on defense in practice.”

Davidson went 11-23 last year, which is not bad considering the teams they played. South Carolina, North Carolina, and the Citadel were ranked among the nation’s top 20 teams while Connecticut nearly made it to the College World Series. In addition, Georgia Tech compiled a 30-game winning streak. In the spring, Davidson should have an easier conference schedule thanks in part to Southern Conference reorganization. The conference now has North and South divisions, the latter consisting of Davidson, Furman, Western Carolina, and the Citadel. These teams will be Davidson’s only conference opponents. Greer is optimistic about the team’s chances during the spring and about the recruiting already underway for next year. He hopes the roster will eventually grow to 26 players, as is the case with other Division I teams. The Wildcats’ next game will be at Davidson Wednesday against Pfeiffer.