The Davidsonian/Friday, April 1, 1983

FEATURES

The Embarrassment of Art

Chaucer scholar Donaldson visits campus

By BRIAN BUTLER

E. Talbot Donaldson, called “our best reader of Chaucer” by The Yale Review, lectured and led classes at Davidson March 28-29. Once a Yale professor, now retired at the University of Indiana, and advisor to approximately 50 graduate theses (English Professor Ann McMillan is his 49th), Donaldson receives a steady flow of grants and fellowships to continue his studies. He has published widely; his Speaking of Chaucer is in its second edition, and Chaucer’s Poetry is in its third.

Ominous credentials such as Donaldson’s conjure pictures of austere, elite superiority. Yet his 900 Room lecture, entitled “The Embarrassments of Art: Sir Thopas, Pyramus, Thisby, and A Midsummer Night's Dream,” surprisingly revealed a genuinely thrilled peasant still guffawing beneath the weight of years of study. Donaldson’s knowledge is broad and deep. His lecture was riddled with scholia only those intimately acquainted with the material could have caught, yet his bushy eyebrows, mutton chops, and near lust for a good joke enabled the audience to appreciate some of those dusty library books that haven’t been checked out since 1972. His attitude was far from the picture of the lone scholar; his gentle, fragrant sense of humor made him seem an avuncular shoe salesman who enjoys your company whether you are in need of shoes or not.

Monday morning’s lecture on Chaucer’s Troilus and Criseyde fit like a slipper on that day, due to Donaldson’s long familiarity with and love for the text. The lecture focused on Pandarus (one of literature’s first matchmakers, what today one might call a pimp) with such a vicarious thrill in his voice that one couldn’t help identifying Donaldson’s enjoyment of Chaucer’s “dirty tricks” to Pandarus’s voyeuristic titillation at the prospect of Troilus and Criseyde’s love. Donaldson takes special delight in the ways Chaucer plays with the reader’s mind, making him feel he has misread something by withholding crucial information until the end of a lengthy piece of nothing. He also likes the way Pandarus uses a maxim whenever in doubt; he has a saying for the inside out of every occasion. If “Look before you leap” won’t work, Pandarus will try, “He who hesitates is lost.” Like Pandarus, Donaldson seems to have a pocket full of funny phrases to bring his audience to love Chaucer as he does. And, like Chaucer, Donaldson (in his own words) “can’t stand to do anything straight.”

In considering critiques of Chaucer, Donaldson revolts against the over-fictionalization of John Gardner as well as the patristic criticism of C. S. Lewis, who, Donaldson says, tends to drag “Christian red herrings over pagan poems.” As for Freudian analyses, Donaldson asked, “Did Chaucer know Freud? . . . Of course he was Freudian, only he didn’t have any words for it.” Donaldson prefers to understand Chaucer on his own terms, terms which ring remarkably similar to our own “modern ones.”

The 900 Room lecture examined Chaucer and Shakespeare’s similar use of faulty art-within-art, namely Sir Thopas’s incredibly uninteresting doggerel from The Canterbury Tales and Peter Quince’s production of Pyramus and Thisby in A Midsummer Night's Dream. In exaggerating the embarrassments of bad art, both authors draw attention to the masterful qualities of their own work. Donaldson demonstrated a refreshingly clear but unconventional mastery of his art in his explication of exactly why Sir Thopas’s tale and Quince’s play fail so completely. He used the term correctio toDescribe the extent of figures beyond the necessities of their context, such as Pyramus’s “O Night, which ever art when day is not,” and the Prologue’s “Did scare away, or rather did affright.” Donaldson suggested that perhaps these characters “were in dire need of a thesaurus, for variety is the spice of death.” He also drew attention to absurdities that may have slipped by more hardened readers, such as “cheeks yellow as cowslips” and “eyes green as leeks.” Though some slept soundly and noticeably in their seats, most welcomed the chance to enter a well-aged (not agéd) dreamlike land of the past.

By STEPHANIE BRUCK

“If this were played upon the stage now, I would condemn it as an improbable fiction!” So says Fabian in Twelfth Night, describing the muddled action of the play. Twelfth Night is certainly an improbable fiction, but one can hardly condemn the formidable product of the combined efforts of Shakespeare and The Acting Company which came to Davidson March 30. Shakespeare needs no introduction; The Acting Company might. Touring for the Kennedy Center, it consists of 17 young professionals culled from the likes of Juilliard and Yale. The Company’s twofold purpose is the trial-by-fire development of its ensemble through the rigorous 47-week rehearsal/tour period and its commitment to tour professional productions throughout the United States. Knowing that the company consists of high-caliber actors at the beginning of their careers makes their production more exciting.

Twelfth Night is open to several interpretations and centers of emphasis. This particular production wed elements of design, for example, to emphasize certain aspects. The physical layout of the stage determined the patterns of motion for the actors. The symmetrical arbors forced circular and figure-eight paths on the actors, a wonderful visual symbol in a play in which everyone is quite confused. The director made great use of this physical-for-mental whirling, making Malvolio, one of the most deceived characters, complete three full circles before speaking his first line.

Color design also provided visual cues for the audience, equating dark colors with seriousness and bright with comedy. The stage itself was reddish-brown, for this comedy plays against dark consequences. As the play progressed, costumes became brighter. The serious actors wore brown and black: the Duke was in brown except when he wore gold at the end once he achieved happiness. Viola and Sebastian wore brown, and Olivia — while she was acting seriously — was in mourning. When she fell in love with the disguised Viola, she shed her black for pink and her realism for comic exaggeration.

Acting in a stylized comic manner, the comic characters wore the brightest clothes. Malvolio, however, represented an anomaly: despite his comically stuffy manner, he dressed in black. At his most ludicrous he added bright yellow stockings, yet his somber attire generally contradicted the laughter he provoked. Should we laugh at Malvolio? His pretension and snobbery are certainly outrageous; we are delighted when the clever trio dupes him and he makes himself ridiculous. However, when he returns in the final scene amid happy reunions and love matches, he makes plain the darker side to the comedy — the hurt behind the laugh. Suddenly he pours out his suffering from the cruel trick, and he becomes human. He has a heart, we discover, because it is broken, and everyone, including the audience, is ashamed for their cruelty and laughter. Before a tableau of the happy couples, Feste reminds us that while they are blissful now, as Malvolio well knows, “The rain, it raineth every day.”

Sebastian brandishes the rapier of wit in The Acting Company's production of Twelfth Night.