The Davidsonian / Friday, October 7, 1983

Field hockey beat Pfeiffer last Friday at home

Lady Cats Now 3-1-1

By KARA GILMORE

The Davidson field hockey team raised its record to 3-1-1 with victories over Catawba and Pfeiffer this week. Pfeiffer entered
the game undefeated with a 6-0 record, but that didn’t bother the Lady Cats. The team played a controlled game,
passing and cutting the ball well. They managed to score off their first shot on goal. Despite Pfeiffer’s deep penetration
into Davidson territory, the Cats’ defense held them. Davidson led 1-0 at the half.

The second half was scoreless for the first 20 minutes until left link Courtney Hall sent a beautiful pass across
the field to right wing Suzi Klineman, who received the ball near the top of the circle and blasted a
shot past the Pfeiffer goalie. The defense remained strong the rest of the game as goalie Binny Janetta did an
outstanding job. Pfeiffer had 26 shots on goal, and Janetta made 15 saves on the way to recording her second
shutout of the year.

Coach Daley said after the game, “We passed and cut much better, and we were more intense the whole time.
We had no lapses in concentration regardless of how rough it got.”

Yesterday afternoon, the Lady Cats took on the Catawba Lady Indians for a second time. Catawba was out to avenge
last week’s overtime loss to Davidson. The Lady Cats struggled for most of the first half as Catawba cut better
for the ball and beat them to it. But they played more aggressively in the second half. They kept the
ball deep in Catawba’s end of the field for the majority of the half and attempted many shots. They finally
scored when right wing Suzi Klineman took a shot from the top of the circle, which the goalie cleared back
out towards her. Klineman scooped up the clear and took a shot from deep in the right corner at a
nearly impossible angle and managed to put it past the Catawba goalie. That was to be all the scoring for
the game as goalie Janetta held the Indians out to earn her second shutout in a row and third of
the year.

The Lady Cats have two away games next week against Wake Forest and High Point. They lost to Wake in
their season opener and tied High Point in the next game.

Lady Runners In Dog Fight For NAIA Championship

By KERRY BROWN

The Davidson College track team does not offer the likes of an Edwin Moses or a Mary Decker, but what
cross country coach Sterling Martin and his running troops do offer is victories. This is especially evident by the women’s
cross country performance in previous years. After 1982, the team’s track résumé boasted a NAIA District Championship and a 15th
place finish in the NAIA national meet.

Though the squad qualified for the nationals in 1982 after routing St. Augustine, it seems obvious that the team must
pass troubled waters such as injuries and loss of key players before adding a third jewel to their track crown.
An optimistic Coach Martin noted that the team’s performance is adequate this year, but he also felt that the duel
for the NAIA District 26 Championship would be a “dog fight.”

The Lady Wildcats will definitely have problems with the temporary loss of the individual champion of the NAIA District Meet
last year, Jean Webb. The Wildcats have also lost the services of Chris Seel and Karis Herrnstein; and to make
existing problems worse, St. Augustine College and Liberty Baptist Hampton are fielding strong, experienced teams.

After going 5-2 last year, the Lady Wildcats have found themselves struggling through the 1983 season with a 3-3 overall
record. To become champions again, the women’s cross country team will have to give that same devil-may-care bold second effort.
However, with the additions of good runners, freshmen Ginger Sullivan and Judy Dalton, and as Jean Webb, Sarah Patterson, and
Tamara Foreman return to their helm positions on the team, it seems the 1983 Lady Wildcat cross country team...With a
little luck and a lot of effort, they might recapture the NAIA District 26 Championships. Then the women’s cross country
team might add a national championship to their track résumé.

Runners Bow To ASU
By RAND HARTSELL

“If I had only gone to the bathroom before the race started...” Bob Watkins, along with several other cross country
runners, has pondered this last question and others concerning their performances on October 1. To no one’s surprise, mercurial host
Appalachian State rolled over their home course like the Niagara River over the Falls. ASU, led by 2:14 marathoner Carlton
Law, swept the first three places (in addition to taking sixth and ninth), scoring 21 points. The Citadel surprised the
rest of the field by taking a strong second-place team finish with 71 points, 19 points ahead of third-place Furman.
Davidson, led by Frank Ivey’s seventh-place showing, tied with Western Carolina for fourth place with 91 points apiece; a scant
one point behind Furman.

Ivey ran the 10,000-meter course (6.21 miles) in 32 minutes, 9 seconds, averaging 5:05 per mile. Although Ivey was unable
to stay with the leaders after three miles, he was not disappointed with his performance. “We [the cross-country team] were
a little wary about the distance,” commented Ivey, recalling that the Cats' longest race to date had been 5 1/4
miles. “I was pleased with my time considering the [cold, rainy] weather and considering time over the previous courses we’ve
run.”

Freshmen Trey Jammes and Greg Foreman finished second and third for the Cats, placing 18th and 20th. Jammes and Foreman
battled with runners from Furman and the Citadel for nearly the entire race. Only five seconds separated the five runners
at the finish. Only one second separated the two Davidson freshmen who recorded times of 33:52 and 33:53 respectively. Considering
only one point separated Furman, WCU, and Davidson, the order of finish of Jammes’ and Foreman’s pack played an important
role in deciding the team scores. If Jammes had beaten Furman’s Chris Farmer (who finished two places and four seconds
ahead of him), the Cats would have beaten both Furman and WCU. Foreman was in a similar situation, but a
Furman runner edged him out at the chute, affecting Furman’s final score.

Speaking of runs... “I didn’t think I’d have to ‘go’ during the race,” said Bob Watkins of his unscheduled pit
stop at three miles. Watkins has run very close to Jim Rogers this season. “I could have been there [with
Rogers],” said Watkins. Had Watkins finished ahead of Rogers or directly behind him, WCU’s score would have been pushed higher,
into fifth place.

Tomorrow the Cats face formidable competition at the NATA regional meet at Pembroke State. Last year, Ivey qualified for the
national championship in this race. St. Augustine is favored to win the team title. The Cats also run in the
State meet on October 13.

IMAC

Heartfelt apology goes out to Johnny Q. and the Vegetables for listing them as the worst team in the league.
They may, in fact, be one of the worst, but the worst team in the league and possibly in flickerball
history is clearly the Fiji team, “Section 8.” The secret of their success seems to be, as team captain Marshall
“Jobe” Johnston puts it — “unorganization.” “Basically,” Jobe divulged, “we have two plays; flow left and flow right. After that,
it’s pretty much play it by ear.”

Their offense so surprised top-ranked KA Gold that Section 8 got the first score of the game as the Gold
centered the ball into their own end zone for a two-point safety. After that, Section 8 went down in a
glorious 62-9 defeat. Section 8 center Jeff Tilbury had this to say: “We’re the best 0-3 team around.”

One surprise this year, shooting predictions all to hell, has been Moral Hex, a freshman team that is actually good.
So good, in fact, that the Hex has put the hex on every team it has faced to date, leaving
them undefeated. Could be a dynasty in the making.
