4 Friday, September 30, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Drinking Age (Continued from page 1)

The problem arises because houses do not want to eliminate either alcohol or freshmen from their parties. The Patterson Court
Council and the Inter-Fraternity Council met last Tuesday to create a unified policy that would satisfy the minimum requirements of
the law. They are currently working on a guideline for freshmen. Several issues were discussed as problem areas: large beer
parties, small liquor parties, beer trucks, tables with bartenders, and the possibility of undercover agents trying to get a drink.

The groups reached an informal agreement on how to deal with large band parties. According to Spaugh, a student will
have to bring his school identification to verify his age and his student status. Those legal to drink will receive
a hand stamp at the door. Beer kegs will remain unsupervised but will have a sign in sight warning minors
of the possible consequence to the house and the violator. Bartenders were ruled out because if a minor made it
past them, the bartender would be fully liable.

Another problem will be the small parties that serve liquor. The legal age for liquor in North Carolina is 21
and this too will be enforced in a crackdown. In this limit, houses will now take measures to restrict and
monitor these parties. Two possibilities are admittance by invitation only and checking I.D.s.

Beer Trucks

Beer trucks frequently used at very large parties present new problems because of problems in checking their use. Fannie and
Mabel eating house President Beverly Hart said she “expected people to get their hands stamped on their own responsibility. Davidson
is a special place, and I think the students would obey this.” Members of the houses would generally be on
the lookout for unstamped students drinking. Such violators will be asked to put their drink down. “We don’t want to
be obnoxious about it,” said KA president Sam Hay, “but we have to protect ourselves.” If anyone is convicted of
“aiding and abetting in the delinquency of a minor,” the maximum sentence is two years and/or a $2,000 fine. Added
Hart, “I don’t want to go to jail. It’s not worth it to me not to protect myself.”

Perhaps the least controllable parties are on the big weekends. Students bring potentially underage dates to these events. In fact,
agent Barefoot said that agents, probably underaged women, would try to be served in the Patterson Court houses. However, many
students remain skeptical about this kind of enforcement. Commented Phi Delta Theta Social chairman John Ruppenthal, “The feeling around here
is that these are just a lot of scare tactics. I can’t see them sending representatives everywhere. I can’t see
them really enforcing it.”

“Rush will be dry,” said Fiji social chairman Mark Steiner, “as far as freshmen are concerned. It’s ridiculous just to
think you won’t have to change anything. Of course, we’re going to comply with it. And we won't try tricks
to get drinks to the underage. I’m not going to jail.” Hay concurred, “Most people are pretty serious about this
law.” But most thought Patterson Court as a whole would not be hurt by the law. “What we have down
here doesn’t center around alcohol,” said Hay. Hart agreed, “It’s just going to take a little getting used to. So
why try to fight it? Instead, try to live with it. Next year it won't be a big deal.”

900 Room: No Pitchers

Pritchard, who makes policy decisions regarding the sale of beer and wine in the 900 Room, has decided to stop
selling beer in pitchers. At a recent meeting, the Union Board Policy Committee voted unanimously to uphold Pritchard’s decision. “His
name’s on the license and they're his bartenders,” said Union Director William Brown. Pritchard explained that “it’s impossible to monitor
who is drinking from a pitcher.” He does plan to drop the price for a cup of beer.by about five
cents to “make it more attractive.” Pritchard also hopes to offer more products to students under 19. He and his
staff are exploring the selling of food or non-alcoholic “near beer” to attract those who cannot legally drink. The 900
Room has been checking IDs and stamping hands since the beginning of the year. The bartenders look for a stamp
before they will sell beer. “The idea is to make it manageable,” said Brown. “I don’t think it’ll chase folks
away.” Dean Ross said the College was very much in favor of retaining the present atmosphere of the 900 Room,
which meant not shutting out 25 percent of the students. “We want to preserve the 900 Room as a place
where students could mix with faculty and staff informally. Beer isn’t necessary for that. The 900 Room really is a
fragile privilege,” Ross said.

Freshman Halls

The solution is fairly clear on freshman halls. According to Freshman Advisor Katie Dagenhart, hall counselors are forbidden to use
the $75 social money given to the hall by the College for alcohol. This removes all institutional responsibility for violations
of the law. More importantly, the College will “definitely not make the hall counselors into policemen,” said Dagenhart. “It is
the freshmen’s responsibility to obey the law.” Most agree that if freshmen drink in their rooms that remains a private
matter. The owners of Peregrine House and Giorgio’s, two Davidson restaurants that serve beer, said they were going to check
the IDs of customers more carefully, but no other changes. They will continue to sell beer by the pitcher.

Phi Society (Continued from page 1)

said that admitting women is better for both Davidson women’s and the Society’s interests. “We wouldn't be evil people if
the Society didn’t admit women, but it wouldn’t be fair not to,” he said.

ATO (Continued from page 1)

enough students could certainly support ten houses — the current number including ATO — but he said that determining a
definite number of viable houses was difficult. Currie said that with 39 or 40 members it is difficult to run
a house, and last spring’s small self-selection results were little help to ATO. He also pointed to the trend toward
part-time eating at a house as a possible cause of problems. Last spring the Business Office issued suggested minimum membership
requirements for eating houses, but Currie pointed out that ATO remained open last spring even with fewer than the suggested
60-member minimum. “We want to help and yet not be running the houses,” Currie said when asked about the College’s
role in Patterson Court. “We are trying to do even more, to bend over backwards to make sure we weren't
intentionally taking business from houses,” he said in reference to the relationship between the Commons and the houses.

“It's a chance for women to develop skills which might help them later,” said Jolly. The Philanthropic Society is the
only campus organization to retain century-old traditions, according to Monroe. Each meeting opens and closes with prayer and is run
by formal parliamentary procedure. Society members sing the Alma Mater at the end of each meeting. The Society emphasizes public
speaking skills. The Phi Society last voted on the issue of admitting women in October 1981. Monroe said that even
though the change did not pass, a majority short of the two-thirds necessary voted for it.

Last chance for freshmen to enter for $25.00 in free merchandise

Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St.-Davidson, N.C 28036
892-7521

FAMILY NIGHT
Every Monday Night 5 To 10
PIZZA
BUY ONE PIZZA (ANY SIZE)
GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE FREE

KING OF PIZZA
Mooresville
