6 Wednesday, December 14, 1983/The Davidsonian

—Music

By STEPHEN MANK

In the fifties and early sixties, the EP was the most popular form of vinyl. Back then, people hardly ever bought albums, so if they wanted more songs than a 45 had to offer, they turned to the four- to six-song extended play.

But during the late sixties and seventies, individual songs got longer and longer, until eventually bands like Iron Butterfly could fill entire album sides with only one song.

Ironically, that embarrassingly popular music, disco, contributed to the EP’s revival with “disco versions.” These “extended length dance versions” touted the length of an album with only one song; the search for a middle ground was inevitable.

As the eighties neared, labels such as I.R.S. and Columbia decided that the masses wanted to hear new bands again. So instead of spending a lot of money on albums, EPs became a means of “testing” a band.

Guadalcanal Diary

There are many hot EPs out now. Guadalcanal Diary’s Watusi Radio seems to be a harmless investigation of the shape of things to come. As if to acknowledge the good idea punk had (although unlistenable and depressingly simple), and the too-popular swing in the other direction — new wave (also unlistenable and depressingly simple), GD has hit upon a pleasant compromise.

“Michael Rockefeller,” the disc’s highlight, is a mixture of sturdy, quality drumming, and harsh yet adeptly played guitar and bass, providing a complementary background to Murray Attaway’s lulling vocals.

“John Wayne,” another marvelous piece, is the lament of one tough hombre who was the king of the hill until said Mr. Wayne arrived on the scene. The rolling refrains of “I wish I killed John Wayne” offer shades of hardcore punk, but the instrumentalization and wit offer a happy alternative.

The Method Actors

Athens, Georgia is slowly garnering for itself a reputation for producing insanely popular bands. The town that brought us Love Tractor, Pylon, the B-52’s, and R.E.M. has a new local tomato made good — The Method Actors.

Their new EP, “Live In a Room,” is an exciting piece of funk-punk-avant-garde. Consisting of nothing but a drum/bass rhythm section and a saxophone, their music explores the distant realms of experimentalism.

Songs such as “Eye” rest on a happy medium that somehow combines minimalism with a lushness reminiscent of the Psychedelic Furs or the Talking Heads. The deliberate yet musical bass and drum act as an anchor straining to hold the playful saxophone in check. The cheesy, cheapo, spy, B-movie genre of theme music is perfectly epitomized and satirized on another noteworthy song, “Detective.”

Although good, the music is not the best the Method Actors have played. It will most likely achieve popularity among the true lovers of unusual music.

Jason and Co.

Jason and the Nashville Scorchers combine all the best qualities of straightforward rock, southern rock, and country. Fervor is testament.

Electric guitar played with uncompromising precision and lucidity can be heard on “Both Sides of the Line” (co-written by front man Jason Richenberg and R.E.M.’s Michael Stipe — hmm) along with the twangy guitar and characteristic voice cracks of country.

“Pray for Me Momma (I’m a Gypsy Now),” on the other hand, is unaltered country that would find approval only with the most ardent fan. But the best juxtaposition of musical styles can be found on “Help There’s a Fire,” with its pedal steel guitar and undaunted ravings “Every time I look at you I yell, ‘Help, there’s a fire.’”

If Jason’s new style finds any kind of favor, he and his band will be just as their name implies, scorchers.

Looking for a part-time job?

Openings for hard workers at

UNITED PARCEL SERVICE

Applications are to be accepted at United Parcel Service - (Corner of I-85 and North Graham)

Wednesday Jan. 11 from 4:30 p.m.—7:00 p.m.
Wednesday Jan. 18 from 4:30 p.m.—7:00 p.m.
Wednesday Jan. 25 from 4:30 p.m.—7:20 p.m.

Pay: $8.00 per hour
15 to 25 hours per week
Monday through Friday

Excellent benefits

Additional inquiries or information available through Careers Office

Equal Opportunity M/F