Cliff Tribus goes up.

Rally Falls Short to Marshall

By STEVE SOUD ’84

Dejected, Bobby Hussey sat in a corner of trainer Keith Luxton’s office as he half-heartedly fielded reporters’ questions.

“What’s wrong with the team?” he was asked. “Why were they so tentative for the first ten minutes of the
second half?”

Half-staring out the window to his side, Hussey ponderously answered, “If I knew that I’d write a book and make
a fortune. Maybe we were overrated at the start.” Bobby Hussey had been saying that all along, but it wasn’t
until Davidson’s second consecutive conference loss, which dropped the Wildcats to 9-10 overall and 5-5 in the Southern Conference, that
people were listening.

Hussey is probably right when he suggests that the Wildcats were slightly overrated at season’s start. But by no means...

Photo by Neil Cooksey

Finally, a women’s basketball photo.

Lady Cats Get Fourth Win

Heppner Sparks Win with 19

By KARA GILMORE ’85

The outcomes of women’s basketball games these days have been as unpredictable as the weather. Last Thursday at Wingate the
women were trounced 97-53, only to bounce back Monday afternoon just in time to pull out a 57-53 victory over
visiting Methodist. As for the Wingate game, Coach Dee Mayes said, “They completely dominated the game. Player for player they
really ‘outmanned’ us. I was really impressed by Wingate—they are probably one of the strongest teams we play.”

She did, however, add, “We could have done much better against them than we did; we just didn’t play a
good game.”

Mike Frankhouser, playing her usual consistent game, led the team with 20 points and 10 rebounds. Mitzi Short chipped in
10 points.

Monday afternoon things started out looking pretty bleak for the Lady Cats. They came out flat against Methodist (a team
they beat earlier this season, 63-59), and fell behind by 12 points early, 25-13.

The Methodist defense was really keying on Frankhouser (she scored 33 against them last time) so the team was having
trouble getting the ball inside to her. When she was getting it, the going was tough inside as Methodist was
really packing up the lane.

The key factor in the game, however, was the play of senior forward Carol Heppner. “Peppy,” as she is called
by her teammates, lived up to her nickname. Moving into a starting role at forward after Christmas, Heppner, who was
almost unable to play this season due to a year-old knee injury, has filled the role admirably. Although smaller...

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 4 February 1983

Photo by Neil Cooksey
