Computers Abound on Campuses

The long-anticipated campus computer revolution has finally begun to reach students. Computers have been nosing into college libraries and offices for years now, and they have been increasingly available to students on many campuses. But just last spring, Harvard students still caught administrators unaware when they lugged word processors into class to take finals. Harvard administrators, like counterparts around the country, had to scramble to draw up ways of regulating student personal computer use, which is quickly outstripping the centralized computer centers becoming common at Harvard.

Indeed, with falling microcomputer costs, more and better software available, and lighter, more streamlined hardware on the market, 1983 promises to be the year in which micros will begin to change substantially the way students go to college. “At the risk of being trite, the personal computer will become as much a part of life as the telephone, if not more so,” predicts Bruce Schimming, IBM’s education industry administrator. Students are already using computer workstations and their own units to play remote games, carry on electronic conversations, send jokes, and even arrange dates as well as do their work in new ways.

Iowa State’s Sutton does his homework on the microcomputer his fraternity — Delta Tau Delta — purchased for its members to use for personal as well as fraternity business. “We use it for just about anything you can imagine,” Sutton boasts. “By spending eight hours of work at the computer, I save 40 hours of study time. And when it comes to doing budget and financial reports for the fraternity, I can do in 20 minutes what used to take days to do manually.” Like many other microcomputers, Delta Tau Delta’s is connected through regular telephone lines to the university’s main computer, as well as to other national computer networks and databases, allowing the fraternity members to communicate with other computers across campus or across the nation.

Now, virtually every college requires students to take “computer literacy” courses. Most schools now have campus computing centers, and many are installing micros in dorms, libraries, classrooms, and fraternity houses. Marquette, for instance, is linking dorm computers to the school’s two main computers. Duke University has installed some 200 IBM Personal Computers in residence halls and other buildings around campus to give students “unlimited access to computers.” Baylor, North Carolina State, Notre Dame, and Illinois State, among many others, are also installing dorm computers. Students do use them. The University of Oregon has to keep its 15 dorm computer stations open 24-hours-a-day to meet demand.

But the idea of making computers available only in certain areas — computer centers, dorm stations, or even in fraternity houses — is fast becoming a thing of the past. Instead, observers say, there will soon be a computer for every student. And colleges will become “wired” so that personal computers can be plugged in and used virtually everywhere on campus. “In the last five years the number of computer terminals on campus has gone from under 400 to nearly 1000,” says Dartmouth computer center Director William Arms, “and we expect that to increase to over 4000 within the next five years.” Dartmouth, like many other schools, is “getting away from the idea of clustering computers together, and moving towards the idea that each individual should have his or her own computer in their dorm or office.”

“And when that happens,” says IBM’s Schimming, “when you suddenly go to a situation where a student can be sitting at a keyboard of his or her own, not just spending four hours per week on a computer at the library or computer center, then you’re going to see some dramatic differences in the way things are done.” In a joint experiment with IBM, Carnegie-Mellon is one of the front-runners in the race to become the nation’s first “wired campus.” CMU freshmen will be required to buy their own computers next fall at an estimated cost of $750 per year, in addition to their annual $10,000 tuition. “By 1985, our goal is to build a network of 7500 personal computers on campus,” says CMU spokesman Don Hale. “Each student will purchase his or her own computer and take it with them when they leave.”University, too, will require all entering freshmen to buy their own computers next year. “A kid who comes to us next year,” explains Bernard Sagik, Drexel Vice President of Academic Affairs, “will graduate in 1988, and will be working in a world that will be totally involved in information and computer technology. It would be an injustice to deny our students the opportunity to learn how to use this new technology."

Nevertheless, a National Assessment of Education Programs study last year warned that unless more was done to educate students about computers, as many as two million high school graduates would be without the essential skills necessary for employment in the “information society” of the 1990s. But not everyone is convinced computer literacy should be ranked with reading, writing, and arithmetic as one of education’s basic aims.

California Group Combats 'Computer Overkill'

SAN FRANCISCO, CA (CPS)—Microcomputer companies are duping many schools and colleges into buying computers that are overpowered and overpriced for classroom needs, says a California group formed to combat what it calls “computer overkill.” The group says educators are consequently creating a giant classroom white elephant.

The San Francisco-based Committee on Basic Skills Education, which bills itself as a citizens’ action group of educators and industry experts, says it is out to stop the “bandwagon effect” being promulgated by the microcomputer industry to put costly general-purpose computers into virtually every American classroom.

“We’re not anti-tech or anti-computer in the schools,” says committee spokesman Terry Burke. “What we’re against are high-priced, personal computers and all the peripheral equipment being pushed on the schools when less costly dedicated computers can do the job.”

Computer companies often tell schools it is vital for their students to become “computer literate,” and then sell the schools general-purpose microcomputers to do the job, although cheaper “dedicated computers” — those designed to a set number of jobs — would do just as well, Burke says. Schools end up stressing computer literacy at the expense of basic skills like reading and writing, Burke adds.

Apple Computers Inc., for example, often gives schools free computers, but the tack, claims committee founder Dr. Daniel Peck, an education professor at San Francisco State, is “nothing but a sales gimmick.” “If they can get the schools hooked on Apple computers, they can hook the home market simultaneously,” Peck asserts. Apple would also enjoy considerable sales in computer attachments and software. But Peck asks, “Will the Apple of today become the language lab of tomorrow? I mean, will it become obsolete and unused like the million-dollar language labs a lot of schools jumped in and built?”

Apple, for one, doesn’t think so. “Computers are a clearly-demonstrated aid to a more effective education,” Apple spokesman Stan DeVaughn says. “Our position is that we’re not educators, and we don’t purport to be. But we do manufacture a tool that is of enormous use in an educational setting.”

DeVaughn dismisses most of the committee’s points, noting it was co-founded by the president of a “dedicated” computer manufacturer, “which should tell you a lot about their goals.”

“I just don’t think it’s necessary for everybody to need to know how to assemble and program a computer,” says Robert Kelman, Colorado State’s computer science chief. “You don’t have to know how a television set works to turn it on and watch a program, and you don’t have to know how to program a computer to keep recipes and balance your checkbook on one.”

Last spring, moreover, the Committee on Basic Skills Education, a California-based consumer group, warned that many colleges and high schools were being “oversold” on microcomputers. While these are legitimate needs for personal computers, the group advises, colleges should guard against “computer overkill and the ‘bandwagon effect’ being promulgated by the microcomputer industry to put costly general-purpose computers into virtually every American classroom.”

Likewise, Cleveland State education professor John Gallagher cautions, “the use of microcomputers can only be justified if they are doing something which cannot be accomplished by other means. In some instances, I have seen teachers use a $2000 computer to teach a low level of drill-type learning that could be accomplished with a $5 pack of flash cards.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 February 1983