The Davidsonian / Friday, September 16, 1983

Davidson opened its season at home against Wake Forest yesterday.

Hockey Sports New Look

By KARA GILMORE

Yes, fall sports fans, it’s that wonderful time of year again — Field Hockey Season! This year’s team will have quite a different look from the teams of the past two years. Gone are some well-known names, but replacing them are some bright new faces. They include freshmen Katrina “Kat” Lehman, Heather McKee, Micheline “Mich” Sears, and Shannon Stowe; Junior Ann Hunter; and Senior Andrea Miller. Returning from a year abroad are Courtney Hall and Leslie Bryan. Another new face on the field will be that of the new coach Patty Daley.

Daley brings with her a great deal of hockey playing and coaching experience. She completed her undergraduate work at the University of Maryland and her graduate work in Special Education at Indiana University. Daley has played for the University of Maryland, for the Southeast team, and at various USA Olympic Development camps. She has coached high school teams, Washington Association Teams, and the Southeast IV.

Daley looks forward to a promising season but refuses to make predictions because she has seen few of her opponents. This past Sunday the team traveled to Duke to take part in a preseason umpiring clinic. Teams scrimmaged each other for two 25-minute periods while new officials are “rated.” Daley commented, “The games were good for seeing where we were conditioning-wise, and how we performed under pressure in all areas—attacking, midfield, and defense. They were also good for moving people around and seeing how different combinations worked.” Daley felt that the team played two very good, strong halves (of six) for this point in the season. During these stretches, the team dominated opponents and controlled the ball well. Unfortunately, the squad had trouble getting the ball in the net.

Thursday the team opened its season at home against Wake Forest. In the future, Daley will be looking for more scoring and for consistency throughout the regular season. Daley comes to Davidson from Hollins College in Virginia where last year she taught and coached both basketball and field hockey.

There will be home games, Saturday at 10 a.m. against James Madison and Monday at 4 p.m. against High Point.

Campus Clothes

See our half-price clean-out of all summer wear

John Hock & Son
Downtown Mooresville
for Men and Women

By Randy Stroud

Men’s Cross-Country Begins New Season

By RAND HARTSELL

Senior Frank Ivey will captain this year’s Davidson Wildcat men’s cross-country team. The Wildcat Harriers open their seven-meet 1983 schedule at Duke tomorrow. According to coach Sterling Martin, now in his sixteenth season as coach, this year’s men’s team is potentially stronger than last year’s team. “We’ll certainly have a lot of depth,” says Martin. “Frank Ivey took some needed time off during the summer,” continues Martin. During the ’82 spring track season, Ivey — the team’s captain — set a school record in the 800-meter run and established a personal record in the 1500-meter run. Even with these accomplishments as credentials, Ivey feels he is a better long-distance runner than middle-distance runner. “I hope Frank will be in the top ten of the Southern Conference Championship,” says Martin. Ivey finished 14th last fall.As for other competition, Martin expects Ivey to be a front runner in nearly every meet. He finished second in the NAIA Regional qualifying meet last fall. Although some formidable teams have been added to the region, most notably Liberty Baptist College, Martin sees little reason for Ivey to finish out of the top five in the October 8 qualifying race. With Ivey leading the team, many of the other eleven positions on the team will be filled by veterans. Senior Brian Ziclinki, senior Tim Cassell, junior Jim Trotter, junior Jim Rogers, sophomore Bob Watkins, sophomore Taylor Simpson, and sophomore Frank Hague all wore the Black and Red for Davidson last fall. Expect to see a strong freshman contingent challenge these runners led by Alabama state mile champ Greg Foreman (brother of women’s team captain Tamara Foreman) and 9:36 two-miler Trey James. Although Martin is excited by the potential of these two freshmen, he maintains a cautiously optimistic outlook. With regard to the team as a whole, Martin holds an attitude of reserved expectation. “As of right now,” says Martin, “we're looking at a third or fourth at the NAIA Regional meet, tenth or so at the State championship race, and seventh, possibly sixth at Southern Conference.” After Duke, the Cats face perennially tough Lynchburg, Appalachian State, and Pembroke State among many others.

By PAM HARMANN

The Women’s Cross Country team opens its season tomorrow against the Duke Women’s Club Cross Country team. The meet at Duke will begin at 10:30 a.m. A solid squad boosts Coach Sterling Martin’s optimism for the upcoming season. He has several top runners returning as well as a few new runners to work with. Senior Tamara Foreman captains this year’s team. Other returnees include juniors Susie Dresser, Jean Webb, Sarah Patterson, and sophomore Judy Dalton. Senior Adelyn Lutz is new to the team, as are freshmen Ginger Sullivan, Laeta Kalogridis, and Alison McEntire. Martin feels that all these women have the potential to become top Davidson runners. Coach Martin has been head coach of cross country for ten years, and assisted six years prior to that. Comparing this team to teams of previous years, he said, “Given the fact that we were a young team last year, I feel we can improve our 5-2 record. We hope to win the NAIA district 26 meet again to qualify for nationals.” The women’s cross country team placed first in the NAIA district 26 meet last year, fourth at the North Carolina State meet, and fifteenth overall in the NAIA championship at Kenosha, Wisconsin. The meet against Appalachian State University is the high point of the season. ASU is a strong team and will prove to be a tough meet. Upcoming meets include Lynchburg and Emory on September 24, and Appalachian on October 1. Martin concluded, “For a team with a young tradition here at Davidson, there's been good success and we definitely hope to continue that.”

“Stone” Athlete Of The Week

This week’s Athlete of the Week is senior Will Bynum. Against Wofford last Saturday, Bynum, a 5'10", 210 lb. linebacker, stopped numerous Terrier drives almost singlehandedly. Bynum had 10 solo tackles and assisted on eight others. To top that, he picked off a Terrier pass. Stone, a team captain and two-year starter, hails from Rocky Mount, North Carolina.