Dr. King’s Birthday: America, how dare you say no?
By ANNE ELLIOT ’84

“Unlike any other American hero, King will not go away!” —Rep. John Conyers, D-Michigan

“He was a man who confronted injustice. He did not telephone it, or write a letter to it. He confronted
it!” —Dr. Ron Walters, Howard University

Saturday, January 15, thousands of Americans celebrated the birth of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Seventeen students and
Davidson residents joined those who gathered in his honor in Washington, D.C. On Saturday, the National Legislative Strategy Session, including
speakers, workshops, and a concluding rally, started at 10 a.m. and continued throughout the evening. Each speaker emphasized, in one
form or another, how Dr. King’s dream continues to cry out for peace, justice, freedom, and love. Mr. Damu Smith
of the American Friends Service Committee said, “President Ronald Reagan cries over the injustices in Poland, but when the slaughter
and injustice prevalent in South Africa are brought to his attention, he has nothing to say. No sanctions, no boycotts,
no feeling, no nothing... With money going away from us and into Reagan’s mechanical murderers, we should immediately realize that
the peace issue is a black issue. And if not for this reason alone, then certainly for the very survival
of the planet. Nuclear war is an equal opportunity killer.”

Why? Why should Martin Luther King’s birthday be a national holiday when John F. Kennedy, Robert E. Lee, and scores
of other public and prominent men and women don’t have national holidays? Simple. There is no support for them to
have national holidays. There is a tremendous thrust to pass the King holiday bill. The people want it. The bill
is not simply a materialistic need of a special day in honor of Dr. King. Martin Luther King is a
symbol of untampered, true American ideals. Unlike any other man, he bluntly questioned the integrity of the American national character
and confronted it with its own founding principles. To black people, he gave the precious gift of self-love and self-respect.
He removed Christian hypocrisy from the lips and actions of white people. He spent his life telling white people that
all men are created equal and demanding that justice “roll down like water and righteousness like a mighty stream.” But
America continues to say NO to him and to us, as they did in his lifetime. Why? That the King
holiday request was rejected suggests that many in white America still will not acknowledge and confront their past and present
acts of hypocrisy and injustice, especially when they are so vividly revealed to them by the life and teachings of
a black man.

So Stevie sang on. Stevie Wonder sang in glorious tribute to “the man”: the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
And the tear came. No crying, just that vehemently calm tear, innocently peculiar to the Negro eye. And we rejoiced
and sang on, silently raging with abandoned hurt: America, how dare you say No? But you are celebrated, Dr. King.
You are celebrated by every heart, across the globe, that believes in and lives for love, justice, and freedom! God
bless you, we love you, and Happy Birthday, Dr. King.

Anne Elliot is President of the Black Student Coalition

Plott Memorial Concert (Continued from page 1)
School of the Arts in Winston-Salem, and he was also first oboist with the Piedmont Chamber Orchestra and the Clarion
Wind Quartet. He graduated from Davidson Phi Beta Kappa with a major in English. Workman, also an English major, went
on to earn a diploma in voice performance from the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia. He joined the Hamburg
State Opera in 1965 and assumed his present position in 1975. Workman has sung with opera companies around the world.
Donald B. Plott died in 1981 while serving in his thirtieth year on the Davidson College faculty. He directed the
nationally recognized DavidsonCollege Male Chorus for 29 years and the Oratorio Singers of Charlotte for 20 years, leaving behind him
a legacy of musicians as widely dispersed as Davidson’s alumni.

Par Activities Tax
(Continued from page 1)
midget from the year before; receiving 3000 less than requested. They were also concerned that a reserve fund which the
ATC sets aside for emergency allocations has been eroding. Last year the ATC granted a total of $66,000 to these
organizations, $6600 more than the $59,400 raised from students' fees for the year. The ATC recommended raising the fee last
year. Business Manager Bob Currie said last year, “I feel it should be raised $10.” This year he feels the
same way saying, “If we can increase student fees to cover it, and having had no increase in a couple
of years, I feel we need one.” Currie said he saw few other options besides cutting back on the number
or size of the publications. Terry, who serves on the ATC, echoed Currie’s sentiments. “I think it is reasonable to
ask for an increase.”

Cauley feels that the increase is warranted, especially considering that The Davidsonian ran into financial problems this year and their
allotted budget this year was less than last year. Cauley says other newspapers at schools of comparable size get significantly
more money than The Davidsonian. He pointed out that compared to The Davidsonian's $13,000 budget of last year, Middlebury's paper
received $18,000, Carleton received $17,500, and Williams $14,000 combined with alumni contributions to bring their total budget to $25,000. Cauley
cites rising printing costs and inflation as taking the major bite of the Davidsonian budget.

Quips & Cranks Editor Jim Reese also feels the increase is desperately needed. Last year the yearbook asked the ATC
for $28,000 but received only $32,000. Reese says now that they could have made it with $24,000, but they had
to work hard at fundraising to make up the difference. He admitted that the yearbook gets help from advertising, but
that considering the state of the economy, ad money is no longer a sure thing. He pointed out that not
long ago the yearbook did not have any ads. Reese added that many schools sell their books as a way
of taking in extra income.

Hobart Park, the student literary magazine, has also made a plea for more money. Past Editor Dave Banks was only
able to put out two issues despite enough good material for three, according to an article in last year’s Davidsonian.
Darryl Cooper, a representative for Hobart Park, said that last year’s book cost about $1500 an issue but this was
only because they were able to get most of the printing done at cost. That won't be the case next
year, he said, and the cost of two issues will be closer to $3600. Hobart Park received $3001 last year
from the ATC.

Camp Thunderbird
Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them
in their physical, mental, and spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to helping each individual
child develop his or her potential should apply. One must have the ability to teach in one or more of
our specialized activities. College students, teachers, and coaches should apply.

CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles SE of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp specializing in water sports (sailing, water
skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery, and
backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing, and tripping are extras in our excellent program. For further information write or call G.
William Climer, Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 7, Box 50, Clover, S.C. 29710 (803-831-2121).

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 21 January 1983
