The Davidsonian
Friday, March 18, 1983

Cabrales Experiences America
El Salvadoran finds challenge at Davidson
By THURSTON HATCHER

He was sitting in a bar in San Salvador with a group of his friends. They were playing the right
music. Conversation was good. But then the gunmen entered. “A couple of terrorists tried to take it over,” he said.
“They came in and started firing. Then somebody yelled ‘Go down on the floor.’” The next thing Tony Cabrales knew,
two men in the bar were dead. “It was just shocking,” he said.

A day in the life
A day in the life of Tony Cabrales, a Davidson freshman from El Salvador — it was a new horror
for him, but a painfully routine one for the nation. When he is not in school, Cabrales lives in El
Salvador. For the past five years, however, he has spent most of his time in the United States. Before enrolling
at Davidson College, Cabrales attended Kent School, a preparatory school in Connecticut. His parents sent him here because of the
problems in El Salvador, and also so that he could enjoy the advantages of athletics in the U.S. He has
one brother and three sisters, two of whom are also living in the United States. His father is involved in
land development and agriculture in El Salvador.

When Cabrales entered Kent School as a ninth grader, he spoke only a few words of English. “I took an
intensive English course,” he says. “It was very demanding academically.” After a year of language training, he felt much more
comfortable with English. Cabrales had come to summer camp in North Carolina for several years before going to Kent, but
that didn’t make coming to Davidson any easier. Sometimes when he found himself struggling to communicate or even to relate
with people around him, he thought of quitting and giving it all up. But he knew what was best for
him. “You learn,” he says. “It was the best thing to happen to me. It makes you mature real fast.
It makes you learn to grow up and be by yourself.”

Davidson presents many challenges to the individual, both social and academic, and Cabrales has found sports as a way to
help him deal with those challenges. As the center forward on the Davidson varsity soccer team, he seems to have
found his niche. Says Cabrales of his teammates, “They're the best bunch of guys I’ve ever been associated with.”

Only Salvadorans Understand
Cabrales is always interested in seeing how others perceive the events in El Salvador. Most of the time, he feels
people just do not understand. Initially, he says, for the most part Americans are well-liked in El Salvador, and that
Salvadorans appreciate American intervention.

Hometown Boy Makes Good
McKelway sees future in music
By CRAIG DETWEILER

Davidson-bred Daniel McKelway has seen eighteen Davidson classes graduate to bright, successful futures. He witnessed hairstyles go from above to
over the ear and back again. He was in Davidson before women were. On March 8, McKelway gave a magical
clarinet recital in the 900 Room. Now Davidson will watch McKelway graduate to the upper echelons of the music world.
He has specialized in clarinet since he was eight and has definite plans for his playing in the future. When
asked if he could be the very best he confidently replied, “Yes. I would do something else if I didn’t
think I could.”

The son of Adelaide and Alexander (Sandy) McKelway, Dan has fond memories of growing up in Davidson. Born in Hanover,
New Hampshire but raised in Davidson since he was 8 months old, McKelway enjoyed a normal, carefree childhood. He was
friends with the sons of other Davidson professors, most notably Richie King and Gill Holland, Jr. Memories of Davidson from
his childhood include “positive role models at the college” and “an extremely relaxed atmosphere.” For anyone considering Davidson...As a permanent
home for a family, he recommends it as “a great place to raise kids.” His mother, a pianist, encouraged Dan
to take up a musical instrument. He began playing clarinet at age eight but was more inclined to play a
game of pickup football than his woodwind. By age ten, McKelway had decided to be a dedicated clarinet player, and
he has faithfully committed himself to his playing ever since.

McKelway left the tightly knit Davidson community and North Mecklenburg High School two years ago to pursue and further his
clarinet playing. Currently enrolled in the North Carolina School of the Arts, he has concentrated entirely upon his music. McKelway
takes only two academic classes, spending the remainder of instructional time in rehearsals. The exhausting chamber ensemble or orchestra rehearsals
often last from 3:00 PM until 10:00 PM. His teacher there, Robert Listokin, and his mother have most influenced McKelway’s
music.

The School of the Arts has been a refreshing experience, according to McKelway, because “music seems to make people feel
comfortable.” He has found the students there “totally committed” to their art, and “very relaxed with each other.” McKelway has
learned that there is no room for indecision within professional music: “Either you give it all you can, or you
get out.” Given the accolades McKelway received as a clarinetist, one can see he has given it his all.

In a recent musical competition for high school seniors in Miami, he won $3000. Out of 950 tapes submitted to
the competition, only thirty were chosen for the competition and invited to Miami. McKelway finished within the top five of
the thirty invitees. As a result of the Miami contest, he is now a Presidential Scholar nominee.

McKelway is honing his performing talents for the future, preferring concert halls to classrooms. He says that unlike his father,
he has never considered being a professor. Also unlike Dr. McKelway, Dan does not smoke a pipe, although he will
admit to trying it once. Dependent upon his breathing ability in making music, McKelway reasons, “It’s bad for the lungs.”

Excited by the musical opportunities and performances in the Northeast, McKelway looks forward to enrolling in the New England Conservatory.
His future appears extremely bright. He is diligent and dedicated in his playing and confident about what lies ahead. McKelway
can comfortably conclude, “No one has ever told me I couldn’t be the best, so why should I not believe
it?” Perhaps Davidson and the world will come to believe it.

They are not conflict-loving people, he believes. “The only thing people want is peace.” The only people who really know
what is going on in El Salvador, says Cabrales, are El Salvadorans themselves. “You've got to live there and know
what is going on. You just don't think about it.”

There exists in El Salvador a severe economic gap between the wealthy and the poor. Cabrales is quick to point
out, however, that the burden is not placed upon the poverty-stricken majority by the wealthy elite. The rich earned their
money honestly and with dignity, Cabrales claims. Cabrales notes that a problem arose when the government attempted to solve the
economic woes of El Salvador. “They took land from the rich and gave it to the poor. There was less
production, so the rich left.” Then there was no production, no investment, and more severe unemployment set in. The situation
had simply worsened.

Cabrales is used to the problems which arise daily in the streets of his country. Civil conflict has continued for
almost ten years, so he has learned to keep moving and to accept his seemingly frightening lifestyle as merely a
daily inconvenience. “You never know what can happen to you,” he says. “You just don’t think about it.”

“Either you give it all you can or you get out,” says Daniel McKelway, son of Religion Professor Alexander McKelway.
