What’s What on Patterson Court: What you can eat and how much it will cost

By JOHN MARKS ’85 and ROSS HOLT ’85

As self-selection time approaches again with all its rusty wheels turning out the usual controversy, a brief survey of the court is an appropriate way to give the Freshman some small notion of what to expect from each house. What follows, though marginally informative compared to an actual visit, will perhaps be helpful.

Pika—The Pikes operate under the oral encouragement system, as well as two other houses on the Court, so more than likely those who have an interest in eating there know more than enough. However, for the record, it costs $390 a term, $90 of which goes to social. The house stages many fine parties, most notable of which is the beach party at Spring Frolics, and is involved at the YMCA coaching basketball for kids. Earlier this year, they raised $1000 for the Kenya fund. One member of the fraternity/eating house described the Pikes as “a diverse group of individuals all working together to have a good time.” He also cited fried chicken as the best meal. Officers for this term are Lach Zemp, John Niepole, Steve King, Keith Revell, and Steve Reardon.

ETC is next door to the Pikes and though they are closely affiliated with the Sig Ep fraternity, they are an eating house operating under the regular self-selection system. Regular board is $380 per term, while half-board is $300, which includes breakfast and either lunch or dinner. ETC leans towards a more intimate social life, concentrating on small parties where members of the house can get to know each other. They sponsor Bagel Breaks and Nacho Nights, and for new members in the fall of the year, they have a steak and champagne dinner. They are, as the Pikes, very diverse, according to one member and presumably have as good a time. They also claim Tuesday night fried chicken dinners as their best meal with Sunday lunches running a close second. The officers are Laura McDonald, Steve Byers, Steve MacMillan, Lanny Conley, and Brad Perkins.

Just a mudslide away is Warner Hall, a new women’s eating house established just last year to meet the growing need on campus for an option to Rusk. Board is $380, $60 of which goes to social funding. Most of the activities of the house center around the members, much like ETC, and include such events as Friday afternoon clubs, slumber parties, and drinking games. The house was established last year; therefore, it is predominantly composed of sophomores. The favorite meal at the house is the enigmatic Spud, a potato filled with just about everything. Officers are Vickie Neal, Kelly Sundberg, Keg Carter, Mary Griffin, Elena Paul, Laura Turnburke, Pam Strader, Elizabeth Laughlin, Heather Jameson, and Rebecca Bates. The women are also responsible for livening up those sometimes dreary birthdays with a song and a cake.

At Fannie & Mabel’s, the new officers are: Bev Hart, President; Betsy Williams, Vice-President; Chip McMichael, Treasurer; Muffin Alford and Jeff Holland, Social Chairmen; and Head Waiter, Kurt Hinges. The board at F&M is $385 per term. F&M: where pool is a tradition. Said outgoing President Sarah Moody of the self-selection process at F&M, “Nothing started until we found out who was interested,” she said. After they had found the interested freshmen, though, members invited them to meals according to self-selection. She characterized F&M as versatile, diverse, open-minded, and “alive.”

Almost to the center of the court, we arrive at the Phi Delt house.One term here costs $410, $90 of which goes into social. Activities are dominated by parties, the most notorious being the UNICEF Halloween party, the Toga party, and the Air Band competition. Around Easter, there is a beach weekend as well. One member laments the house’s jock-fraternity stereotype and claims a much wider degree of diversity.

Phi Delts at mealtime: Because of their size, being smaller than most other houses in membership, there is a greater feeling of unity than might be possible in a larger house, according to this same member. The house encourages any interested people, offering a basic meat and potatoes menu that satisfies every night of the week. The officers are Bill McFadyen, Todd Lambert, Jim Hoskins, Phil Gray, William Patterson, and Mark Hartman.

At the center point of the crescent, sharing this honor with ATO, is the SAE house. Board here is $422, of which $80 goes to social. Various activities during the year include the Muscular Dystrophy bike-a-thon, trips to the Huntersville nursing home, various band parties, and this particular year, a hundredth anniversary celebration of the centennial of the fraternity’s establishment on campus. Equally lamentable as the Phi Delt stereotype, says one member, is the one attached to this house. The SAEs claim as much diversity as any house on campus, though not perhaps at first glance. The best meal is Wednesday night fried chicken and the occasional Sunday lunch smorgasbord. Officers for this term are David Carr, John Cain, Rob Spaugh, George Ibrahim, Jerry Myer, Jim Cox, Clay Napper, and Doug Henson. This house operates on the oral encouragement system, like the Pikes and KAs.

ATO, which one senior member described as “a collection of individuals,” has also elected its new officers. They are: Richard Barber, President; Julie Stauffer, House Manager; Social Chairpersons, Kirk Kirkpatrick and David Sisk; Bill Crone, Treasurer; and Head Waitress, Betsy Johnson. Treasurer Bill Crone said that although ATO was on shaky ground last year, this year it is “financially solid.” ATO members pay $370 per term, $15 of which is a social fee. Crone said that ATO used the Patterson Court tour, a square dance, and regular Wednesday night ice cream socials to gauge freshmen interest. He said members invited interested freshmen to meals and otherwise actively encouraged them to join. Crone agreed with the assessment of ATO as a collection of individuals. He said, “ATO doesn’t break the mold, because ATO never had a mold.”

At Emanon, whose members outgoing secretary Lisa Herard describes as “diverse, easy-going, and lots of fun,” new officers have been elected. They are: Carolyn Boudreau, President; Stu King and Jim Moore, Vice-President; and Ruth Clark, Treasurer. Emanon costs its members $375 per term for combined board and social fees.

Emanon: house with no name. Herard said Emanon would continue its traditional Wednesday night ice cream socials, as well as pizza and beer nights. She said the house will also hold “International Nights,” at which foreign dinners will be served. Herard said that people at Emanon “do not seem real concerned” about the brewing self-selection system controversy. However, she said that they do not want a system which would “enhance the fraternities at the expense of the co-ed eating houses.”

PAX’s officers for the coming year are: President, Drew Wells; Vice-President, Janet Lindsley; Treasurer, Sloan Warner; Assistant Treasurer, Tim McGaughey; Social Chairpersons, Murray Simpson and Cathy Clark; Board Manager, Jenny Cooper; and House Managers, Jennifer Spencer and Betsy Brice. 

(continued on page 9)

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 February 1983