Consultants Make Humes Report
By DAVID RESNIK ’85 and MIKE TANTILLO ’85

The consulting team of Harold Martin, Marvin Levich, and Jed Rabb recently released their evaluation of Davidson’s Humanities program. Their report concluded that the Davidson Humanities program has a “tendency to lead students to mistake superficial acquaintance with two thousand years of history for a genuine understanding of any part of it.”

Vice President of Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann believes one must choose between “breadth versus depth” when designing a Humanities program, and “major units of history are coherent within themselves.” “A focus on depth would allow more interdisciplinary action,” he said.

The report found that the program “is only adventitiously interdisciplinary,” and suggests “an enlargement of the concept of the term humanities” to include “economics, sociology, anthropology, and science.” The report also concluded that “there appears to be a tendency not to press the students except in the amount of reading required as far as they should and can be pressed.” For example, they felt that “the course does not deal adequately with problems in writing common among freshmen” and that “the burden of acquiring background” should be “shifted to the student so that lectures can” be more “provocative.”

First-year Director of Humanities and Religion Professor Max Polley would also like to “strengthen” the English program because Humanities does not teach writing “as thoroughly as [English] 21 or 22 should.” Second-year Director of Humanities and English Professor Anthony Abbott suggests that “a seminar might be created to teach the Humes staff how to teach writing better.”

The consultants also observed that “the Humanities staff is now a young faculty” who “are weary of committing themselves to enterprises which in their perception may imperil their chances for promotion and tenure.” Physics Professor Robert Manning recognizes this problem: “If the administration doesn’t let it be known to younger faculty members that the administration will value their interdisciplinary work as much as disciplinary work, then the Humanities program is in a lot of trouble.”

The consultants also recommended “training on the new Sloan Grant program to effect some link between the Humanities course and the ‘other’ end of the curriculum, science and technology.” Zimmermann agrees: “The Sloan Foundation feels that technology is a way of life and thought... Humanities can put technology into the proper social and humanistic perspective.”

Student Reaction

Senior Jack Smith, who has gone through the entire Humanities program, also feels that it may be “too superficial.” “They [Humanities] touch on too much and explain too little,” Smith said. “For example, in the second year they cover American Romanticism (Poe, Melville, Hawthorne, Whitman, etc.) in only two days.”

Sophomore John Malone, who is currently enrolled in the program, agrees: “We recently read a 300-page novel and spent 50 minutes discussing it.” He admits, however, that “they do as good a job as they can” of surveying Western civilization and “generalizing some concepts.”

Smith also believes “the program could and should be more interdisciplinary” but he realizes “there is a time factor.” He thinks that if the program focused more on particular topics, it could be made “more interdisciplinary.” According to Malone, the interdisciplinary aspect of Humanities is “now erratic.” “When they assigned Adam Smith, that was our first economics lecture in two years,” he said.

Acting Philosophy Chairman Earl MacCormac, who was recently appointed as head of the two-year Humanities program (see related article), “believes deeply in the interdisciplinary approach to education.” He also thinks the Humanities Program can achieve “greater coherence” by focusing more on “themes or problems.”

Kaylor sees the switch to semesters as a good opportunity “to look at the Humanities Program” but he thinks “we have a good program,” however. Polley also thinks the switch is a good opportunity but predicts that “it would take a year to revise the Humanities Program” if Davidson goes “in the direction of the consultants' report.” Polley anticipates that any major revisions in Humanities would not become effective until the 1984-85 school year.

Last spring Zimmermann applied for a grant from the Association of American Colleges that pays for half of the consultation fee for Humanities program evaluators. On 1 July 1982, he informed the Humanities staff that the grant had been accepted. The Association of American Colleges named Martin as the head of the consultation team and selected Levich and Rabb. Martin is a professor of...Humanities at Trinity College. Levich is a professor of Philosophy and Humanities at Princeton, and Rabb a professor of History at Princeton and Editor of The Journal of Interdisciplinary History. The consultation team based their report on our examination of documents provided by the acting heads of the two Humanities courses and visits to Davidson. Manin attended Humanities 111 and 121 lectures and talked to faculty during his first visit in September. He returned with the entire consulting team at the end of the first term, and they talked to eight staff members, two groups of students (fifteen freshmen and fourteen sophomores), and with the Liaison Committee appointed by Dr. Zimmermann. Davidson established the Humanities program in the 1962-63 school year. Since then it has undergone only two major revisions: one when the college switched from semesters to trimesters and another when Davidson increased its enrollment from 1000 to 1350.

Consultants’ Recommendations

These recommendations are quoted from the consultants’ report.

“1) We urge that any planning for a change in the program give high priority to the foreseeable problems of staffing for the next ten years, to the inferences about the student population emerging from the “Match” research of the Director of Admissions, and to the changing nature of scholarship itself in the various disciplines associated with the course.

“2) We think it entirely feasible that the burden of acquiring “background” be in good part shifted to the student so that the lectures can become increasingly provocative rather than principally informative, thus permitting group discussion to spring directly from them.

“3) In view of what we regard as unwarranted confidence among students about their grasp of the development of the ‘western tradition,’ we argue for a sharply decreased emphasis on coverage as a central concern of the course.

“4) We suggest that careful consideration be given to two kinds of broadening:
a) an enlargement of the concept of the term ‘humanities’ sufficient to make room for more serious attention throughout to materials and disciplines (economics, sociology, anthropology, science) which deeply affect the ground on which the ‘humanities,’ conventionally termed, develop;
b) some inclusion, in the light of modern times, of cultural traditions which are not exclusively ‘western.’

“5) From what we have heard about it, we think some attention might be paid to the possibility of drawing on the new Sloan-grant program to effect some link between the humanities course and the ‘other’ end of the curriculum, science and technology.”

(continued from page 1)

A handbook given to all freshmen concerning self-selection spelled out these “minimum interest guidelines.” To join an eating house, freshmen are expected to: “1) eat at least three meals at the house, 2) attend at least three social functions, 3) know a portion of the house membership, and 4) know at least one officer.” Similar but more extensive requirements are expected of freshmen who want to join a fraternity. For instance, students should attend five social functions and know a “substantial portion” of the house membership.

A statement issued by the Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) in 1978 states that two premises form the basis of self-selection: “a) that small group eating and socializing is a desirable agreement carried on through fraternities and eating clubs on Patterson Court; and b) that the final decision about joining a particular group is the student’s decision; the principle of self-selection is fundamental.” Concerning encouragements and discouragements, the CCRL statement says: “In the spirit of self-selection, houses have the right to encourage but not actively discourage members, thereby establishing a strong reciprocal relationship between freshmen and houses. Active participation by the freshmen in the introduction to the houses in the fall should guarantee intelligent decisions regarding self-selection. An individual who feels he has been actively discouraged has the right of appeal to the Supervisory Committee.”

The self-selection system was initiated in 1970 by the Trustees and the President for a variety of reasons: the influence of the ’60s, the general decline of the fraternity system, the financial problems of some of the court houses, and a general concern for the many people whom the fraternity system hurt. Terry pointed out that the old system hurt many people. At the time the system was initiated, he said, no social alternatives existed for someone who failed to get into a fraternity. While he agrees that the self-selection system hurts people too, many more alternatives are available to them now.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 February 1983