2 Friday, November 4, 1983 / The Davidsonian —— NEWS SUMMARY

Vespers Concert To Feature Handel Works

Tenor Richard Kennedy and pianist Joel Harrison will perform a vespers concert at 8 p.m. November 6 in Hodson Hall.
The program will include works by Handel, Brahms, Joaquin Turina, and Wilmer Hayden Welsh.

Kennedy, an assistant professor of music at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, is the second-place winner of the
1981 National Association of Teachers of Singing artist award, a 1981 winner of the Franz Schubert Prize for Singers awarded
in Austria, and a 1983 finalist in the National Federation of Music Clubs Young Artist auditions. He made his New
York City debut last year at Carnegie Recital Hall, and has performed at the Spoleto Festival USA, in Washington, D.C.,
with the American Chamber Orchestra, in New York with the St. Cecilia Chorus, and in Charlotte with the Charlotte Symphony
Orchestra and the Oratorio Singers of Charlotte. He holds degrees from the Indiana University School of Music.

Harrison is a piano teacher and accompanist at Davidson College. He also serves as organist and choirmaster at All Saints’
Episcopal Church in Concord, and as music director and conductor of the Concord Choral Society. A graduate of Myers Park
High School in Charlotte, Harrison is a graduate of UNC-Chapel Hill, and holds the master of music degree with distinction
from Indiana University.

The program is open to the public without charge. It also will be broadcast live by WDAV at 89.9 on
the FM dial.

WDAV Radiothon Begins This Sunday

WDAV will hold its annual radiothon beginning Sunday, running through the week, and concluding the following Sunday. The station hopes
to raise $80,000 to help meet operational costs for 1984. Volunteers will take pledges over phones which will be set
up in the Morrison Room of the Union. Live performances and guest speakers will be featured throughout the week on
WDAV. Flipsides and Jazzsides, programs run by students, will also take pledges. The number to call to pledge support for
WDAV is 892-7777.

Mellon Grant To Revitalize Teaching

A $275,000 grant to Davidson College has been approved as part of a program designed to encourage “fresh combinations” in
teaching and learning during the next seven to ten years. Given by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation of New York,
the grant is designed to help revitalize undergraduate teaching and learning in the difficult years facing American higher education in
the 1980s. At least one-third of the funds will be allocated to the humanities.

“Fresh combinations” are expected to take into consideration new knowledge, new techniques, and new research possibilities in various fields. The
phrase “fresh combinations” was suggested in an essay by Alfred North Whitehead, English mathematician and philosopher, who died in 1947.

The grant raises total Mellon Foundation contributions to Davidson to $1,030,000. The first Mellon grant to Davidson was $150,000 in
1972.

“Davidson College is extremely gratified by this award and the recognition it brings to the College,” said Interim President Frontis
Johnston. “We welcome this opportunity to encourage innovation and creativity within the context of traditional liberal arts and sciences.”

Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann said the College is fortunate to have
a tradition of interdisciplinary study. More than 50 Davidson College faculty members were involved in teaching courses in traditional fields
of the humanities during 1982-83.

Chemistry Receives Grant For Spectrometer

The Davidson College chemistry department has been awarded a $15,000 special grant award from the Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation,
Inc., of New York.

The grant will help to purchase a single photon counting spectrometer, an instrument used to monitor unstable photo-excited molecules, which
may exist for only a few billionths of a second. The instrument will aid in understanding fundamental chemical processes that
occur when molecules absorb light, said associate professor of chemistry Felix A. Carroll.

“This instrument is a crucial part of our work on the capture of solar energy and in studies of smog
formation,” Carroll said.

The single photon counting spectrometer at Davidson will be one of a few in the Carolinas, Virginia, and Tennessee. Davidson
has agreed to make the instrument available to UNCC, Wake Forest University, and some local industries whenDavidson students and faculty
are not using it. The Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation was established in 1946 by Dr. Camille Dreyfus as a
memorial to his brother, Dr. Henry Dreyfus. The foundation supports the advancement of chemistry, chemical engineering, and related sciences as
a means of improving human relations and circumstances in the world.

Peregrine House To Reopen At New Location

The Peregrine House Restaurant will close Sunday and reopen Nov. 13 at its new location at 127 Depot Street in
Davidson. Owner Bob Johnson said the new location will have 80 seats and an outside patio. The restaurant will serve
breakfast and have expanded lunch and dinner menus. Johnson hopes to display artwork from the Copeland House Gallery and work
by Davidson students.

Students Reprimanded For Drinking Violations

A party held in the basement lounge of Belk dorm on Oct. 26 resulted in charges of Code of Responsibility
violations for three students for serving alcoholic beverages to underage persons. The Davidson Police Department received a complaint about 11
p.m. and Officer H. H. Cook went to the lounge. Associate Dean of Students Sue Ross was notified, and the
Davidson Police Department turned the matter over to the Dean of Students Office. Three students claimed responsibility and were charged
accordingly. If Alcoholic Beverage Control officers were there, Officer Cook said, those students would have been arrested as well as
other students drinking underage.

The Faculty Evaluations Saga Continues

The Student Government Association has chosen to distribute its own faculty evaluation form at the end of this term. This
decision is a reaction to Interim President Frontis Johnson’s decision to deny the SGA’s request to take the matter to
the Trustees of the College. SGA President Hunter Monroe plans to write an informative letter to the Trustees explaining where
student evaluation of the faculty now stands and what the SGA feels student input should be. Monroe said the SGA’s
form will resemble the Illinois Course Evaluation System (ICES) form the faculty voted to discontinue using last winter. The form
will contain essay responses as well. The SGA will collect the completed forms and distribute them to professors.

The Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) met with Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann
this week and laid groundwork for future decisions on new faculty evaluation forms. PAC chairman and religion professor Alexander McKelway
said the PAC and the Administration agreed on how to proceed in composing a new form. McKelway said he expects
the PAC and the Administration will have an evaluation form ready for winter term. “We're asking faculty to use the
prose form the faculty adopted. It’s perfectly all right if students want to distribute a form of their own,” McKelway
said.

Recruiters Aren’t Cancelling Visits

(CPS) — After months of issuing gloomy forecasts, college placement officers around the country have grown more optimistic in recent
weeks about students’ job prospects this year. “I think recruiting is going to be up by 15 to 20 percent
nationally from last year,” says Victor Lindquist, placement director at Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill., and author of the Endicott
Report, a national survey of student placements. “That's still down from what it was two years ago, much less three
years ago,” he adds. “I don’t see any sudden turn. This is going to be a gentle turn.” Lindquist and
others have little hard data on which to base their optimism, but they take heart from the trickle of recruiters
moving back onto campuses as fall recruiting season starts.

“The big thing is that we’ve been on a downward curve for some time,” says Jack Shingleton, Michigan State University
placement director and author of another annual national student job survey. “I think we’ve bottomed out, and we’ve started back
up,” he says. It would have been hard for student job prospects to sink much lower. “I don’t know how
it could get any worse than it was in '83,” Lindquist observes. “Hiring of graduates was off by 41 percent
nationally last year.” Shingleton says the number of firms recruiting at Michigan State is about the same as last year,
but that the companies plan to hire more graduates this time.
