Donley, Lovett Vie for Union Post
By DIANA BOHRER ’85

Two juniors, Charlie Lovett and Pat Donley, will compete for the presidency of the College Union in Tuesday’s election. Both
have chaired Union committees but look forward to the greater challenge of organizing the Union Board’s campus-wide activities. Union President
is responsible for coordinating the activities of the Social and Co-curricular Union Committees as well as for financial planning and
public relations.

The following statements are transcribed from individual interviews with Donley and Lovett.

Tell me about your experience working in the Union and what you have learned from it.

Donley: Well, I’m the kind that likes to get involved in everything, or as much as my time will allow
me, and working on the Cultural Events Committee hasn’t been really good for me because it was dropped in my
lap after having been dropped in the lap of the person before, and I tried to do as much as
I could with it. It’s finally starting to come around. But through that I’ve learned a lot about things like
how to run and arrange a committee and also just how things work at the Union Board. I’ve gotten to
be pretty good friends with Mike Goode and Danny Waddell and Elizabeth McMillan, the present officers, so I spend a
lot of time up there and see what goes on. I spend a lot of time in Shaw’s office. I
am around a lot and I get involved and I stick around; when there’s something to be done I try
to help do it just because I like to be involved.

Lovett: It’s hard to say it in a minute; I’ve learned a whole lot about the way the Union works
and about the way the Board works. I’ve learned a lot about programming, how, if there’s somebody you want to
get to come to Davidson, how to go about it, whom you should call and how the whole business of
programming works. And I think the fact that I’ve learned that at the committee level means that I can help
new committee chairmen coming in next year learn that for themselves so that they can continue to do good programming.

What do you perceive the duties of the president to be?

Donley: Well, first and foremost is overseeing the Union Board making sure that everyone is doing what they’re supposed to
be doing and that things are all organized and responsibilities are delegated, things like that. There’s just a lot of
little stuff, but the main responsibility is presiding over the Board and seeing that they work. The president is an
organizer. He has to select a Board that he can work with and that can work with him, his vice-presidents,
and each other, and that’s the most important part of it. And once you do that, if you do get
a Board that works together well, like the present Board, then things run smoothly. I think one of my main
objectives is to be as good as things were this year, if not better.

Lovett: I hope that my duties will include, first of all, trying

Benner, Dickey Clash in VP Race
By DIANA BOHRER ’85

The Union vice-presidential election will match Suzanne Dickey against Eileen Benner for the position of Co-curricular Vice-president. “I'd like to
see students become more involved with co-curricular activities and become more aware of what we do,” Dickey said. The Co-curricular
Vice-president plans the Artists Series and oversees committees devoted to cultural events, the Gallery, fine films, and seven other areas.
Benner has worked with the Artists Series and describes it as “an especially great opportunity for us to bring inTo
create a campus awareness of the Union Board by making the meetings more open and more publicized by having a
newsletter that comes out once a month and by making sure that the minutes of the meetings are posted where
people can see them. I’d also want to create a Union Board awareness of the campus by attending all the
meetings of the Interfraternity Council, the Patterson Court Council, and by being personally responsible for staying in touch with all
the Patterson Court presidents to make sure that we can minimize conflicting events as much as possible.

As President, what would you do if excessive drinking led to destruction in the 900 room again?

Donley: It’s hard to decide. You can’t punish the entire student body for the ignorance of individuals, and if you
don’t know who the individuals are, then somehow you have to make an example of the actual event. It would
be something to the extent of closing down just the bar and saying, “Look, you screwed up. There are certain
kinds of personal responsibilities that you have, and you have to live up to those here; if you are going
to abuse them we’re going to take your privileges away.”

Lovett: I think the way we dealt with it last time (closing the bar) seemed to be effective. If it
were a real problem, I would certainly bring up that possibility. One thing I would do is make it a
decision that the entire Board makes and not that I personally make. That (closing the bar) would be one of
the options I would suggest to the Board. I would also suggest options like having Board members try to be
in the 900 Room frequently to encourage people not to drink too much and to have sort of student ‘people
in the 900 Room who have some level of responsibility in terms of asking people who have had too much
to drink to leave, and things like that.

Hall Counselor teams compete for freshman advisor

By DIANA BOHRER ’85

Running for the position of Freshmen Advisors are two pairs of current hall counselors: Vickie Neale and Stephen Reardon, and
Katie Dagenhart and Rob Spaugh.

“We've enjoyed being hall counselors. We'd like to share our experiences, good and bad,” explained Dagenhart, agreeing with her opponents
Neale and Reardon that being a hall counselor is the most valuable preparation possible for becoming a freshman advisor.

Responsibilities of the advisors, who work as partners, will include selecting and training hall counselors, planning freshman orientation, and being
available throughout the year to guide and check up on hall counselors.

According to Neale, the most important qualification for a freshman advisor is a “general ability to work with people,” and
she adds that “you kind of have to have a sixth sense.” Dagenhart and Spaugh emphasize teamwork among all hall
counselors, saying that they will “promote unity among the hall counselors throughout the year so they can benefit from each
other.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 January 1983

By John Ruppenthal ’84
