16 Friday, March 18, 1983

The Davidsonian

Baseball Battles Inexperience, Weather

By BOBBY BARNES

The Davidson baseball team has fought two weeks of bad weather and early season inexperience. The Cats' roster features only
16 players, two of whom are currently injured. Overall, the Cats are young but have shown signs that they can
play aggressively and competitively against tough opposition. The team will have a chance to iron out early season problems before
the start of conference play.

The Wildcats opened the season with two tough losses to Armstrong State College in Savannah, Georgia. Pitcher Matt Walker led
a group of six freshmen starters for the Cats in the opener, a 4-2 loss. Walker pitched seven shut-out innings
before giving up four unearned runs in the eighth inning. The Wildcats managed only two runs on three hits, two
by first-baseman Scott Weaver.

Two runs proved to be the difference in the second game as well. Down four runs after five innings, the
Cats rallied for five runs as David Emery, Keith Helfant, and John Mahoney punched out key hits. Again, the eighth
inning took its toll on the young pitching staff as Armstrong State put three runs on the board to win,
10-8.

By TODD WIEBUSCH

The Davidson golf team opened its spring season with the prestigious Iron Duke Classic in Durham, North Carolina on March
12-14. The five-man squad, coached by Thomas Cartmill, finished last in the three-day tournament. Clemson won the tournament.

Junior Dave Lincoln was the low scorer (that means best) for the Cats as he shot 78-86-76 for a total
of 240. Sophomore Todd Wiebusch followed closely at 82-82-79-243. Those scores automatically qualify Lincoln and Wiebusch for Davidson’s next tournament
at Elon on March 29 and 30.

Seniors Tom Haller and Bob Whalen, Juniors Greg Kash and Gary Schenk (who qualified for the Iron Duke tournament but
was unable to attend due to an academic commitment), Sophomore Steve McMillan, and Freshmen Bob Carr and Lee Neisler will
all battle for the other four spots allotted to Davidson.

Despite the golfers’ disappointing finish at Duke, Cartmill is optimistic about chances for a successful year. Cartmill cites three reasons
for his optimism: it’s early in the season, competition at Durham was stiff and heavily subsidized by scholarships, and he
has a strong nucleus of veterans on the team.

Ed Whitesides (0-1) took the loss in relief of Weaver. The Cats hit better in the second game (seven of
the starters collected hits), but shaky fielding at inopportune times took its toll. Doug Wiley pitched in relief for the
second consecutive day.

The Cats moved inland from the cold, overcast skies of Savannah to the equally cold, rainy skies of Statesboro. Behind
the hitting of centerfielder John Mahoney and the pitching of senior Bob Barnes, Davidson fought powerful Georgia Southern to a
scoreless standstill before the game was rained out. Wiley was ready again with a flaming performance.

The opening season jitters continued to plague the young Cats as they dropped a 10-3 decision to a red-hot Georgia
Tech team in Atlanta. David Emery collected a pair of hits for Davidson as Barnes suffered the loss.

Back in the friendly confines of Davidson, the Cats ended the spring break on a winning note. Behind the pitching
of Matt Walker (1-1), the Cats defeated California State of Pennsylvania, 8-3. The Scotts (Weaver and Redding) each collected two
hits and Wiley drilled his first collegiate home run.

A series of home games was dampened by a week-long rain. Five games in all, including two against Wake Forest,
were called because of the rain or subsequent wet conditions.

When the skies cleared, Davidson hosted West Virginia State (the guys who walked around campus all last weekend with gold
“STATE” jackets). In the opening game of a Saturday doubleheader, the Cats rallied for eight runs in the fourth inning
to best the visitors 12-8.

Redding, with a grand slam and five RBIs on the day, led the Wildcat assault. Barnes (1-1) went the distance,
picking up his first win of the season. Battery-mate Mick Smith went airborne with three singles in four trips to
the plate.

West Virginia State gained a split in the second game, 11-5, behind a pair of five-run innings. Weaver (0-1) was
tagged with the loss. The same two teams met Monday; the visitors won the rubber game. State first-baseman Chuck “Hooter”
Carr drilled two home runs, including one shot to left field that clipped the top of the tallest pine trees.
As the saying goes, that ball would have been out of any park — including Jellystone.

John Mahoney led the Cats with two hits, two runs, and two RBIs. Chip Knox (0-1) collected the loss in
his college debut.

A SUDS, SAND & SUN SYMPOSIUM

ENROLL NOW!

EASTER WEEKEND EXTENSION

April 1 & 2, 1983 North Myrtle Beach

COURSES

South Carolina Campus

Course # Description Prerequisite

BUD 101 Can Redemption - Valuable Free Gifts Ecology

BUD 102 Natural Light ‘Beauty - Body’ Basic Anatomy

BUD 103 6 - Pack in the Sky” Aerial Jump Show None, unless jumping

BUD 104 Tug-of-War & Relay Races Phys. Ed.

LOOK FOR US MATRICULATING ON THE BEACH
