8 Friday, September 30, 1983 / The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Soccer Climaxes Week With Overtime Victory
By BOYD BLACKBURN

Yesterday afternoon Davidson beat Winthrop 2-1 in overtime to climax a week in which the Cats won three games and
tied one on their way to two tournament championships. The Winthrop game was the championship of the Charlotte Area Soccer
Tournament, which Davidson won last year in a shootout against Winthrop. Tuesday, the Wildcats played rival UNCC to a 1-1
tie after two overtimes and advanced to the finals. Although UNCC is ranked number 10 in the South and last
spring they dominated Davidson in several games, Davidson outplayed and outhustled them in the first half. Ten minutes before half
time the Cats caught UNCC’s defense up and Tony Cabrales fed Sean Austin who quickly hit a left-footed volley past
the keeper. It was his third goal in three games.

Cross Country Squeaks By Roanoke
By RAND HARTSELL

“Battles are won and lost in the trenches” goes the old cliché most often applied to football games. Easily recognizable,
the trench is formed by the offensive and defensive lines. But “trenches” in cross-country? That's another thing. Davidson squeaked by
Roanoke College but narrowly lost to Emory University in Roanoke last Saturday, September 27. Frank Ivey again led the Cats
with his second place finish. Tony Lewis pulled away from Ivey on a 200-yard long hill during the fourth mile
of the 4.41-mile race. Lewis lengthened his lead on the following downhill as he finished ten seconds ahead of Ivey
with a time of 25:03. Ivey was eight seconds ahead of Roanoke runner Andy Chocklett at the finish, and the
order of the finish of the top three individuals foretold the outcome of the team competition. Freshman Trey Jammes ran
well, finishing in tenth place overall with Jim Rogers placing directly behind him in eleventh. Jammes and Rogers battled in
their own “trench,” inspired by Coach Sterling Martin’s pep talk. Bob Watkins and Greg Foreman placed 15th and 16th respectively,
also inspired by Martin's strategy. But it was evident that some of the Cats had not performed up to their
own, if not others’ expectations. Foreman, who finished second for the team the previous week at Duke, had a hard
time with the hills. “At the top of the hills I'd get dry heaves,” lamented Foreman. Brian Zielinski finished out
of scoring position, dropping to the number seven position on the team. (In cross-country, the top five runners’ places are
totaled to determine a team’s score. The lowest score wins.) Zielinski felt discouraged very early in the race. “I was
so far back by a half mile...,” reflected the senior harrier disdainfully. Although Davidson was unable to defeat Emory, the
Cats defeated the Wake Forest “B” team and Lynchburg College (in addition to Roanoke), improving their record to 3-2. “Our
performance definitely shows an improvement at different levels of the team,” said Martin before practice one day this week. “Frank
[Ivey] and I are very encouraged by the development of the runners.” Davidson's top five spread improved 49 seconds from
the previous week’s spread at Roanoke. The spread at Roanoke was 1 minute 43 seconds compared to a spread of
2:32 at Duke. Ironically, Davidson had a lower spread than Emory (lower by 19 seconds), but the Atlanta school was
unable to bunch up more runners than Davidson. The Cats will need some good performances “in the trenches” tomorrow when
they face Appalachian State, Furman, Western Carolina, and the Citadel. Host ASU will be the class of the field, boasting
victories this season over ACC powers Wake Forest and N.C. State.

Field Hockey Edges Catawba 3-2
By KARA GILMORE

The Lady Cats took the field against the Catawba Lady Indians Tuesday afternoon, fired up and ready to go after
an eight-day “break” since their last game.The “break” was only a break in the sense that they didn’t have any
games. Coach Daley used the time to work on conditioning and specific skills. Practices emphasized controlled play, passing, receiving, and
stickwork. The game didn’t start off the way the Lady Cats wanted it to, though. The first two times Catawba
got the ball down near their goal, the Davidson defense lapsed on their marking and the Lady Indians scored. But
being down 2-0 only served to get the Lady Cats more fired up. They came charging back and abused the
Catawba sweeper and goalie with a deluge of shots on goal, tying the game at 2-2 in a matter of
minutes. Both goals were scored as a result of penalty corners. Freshman Heather McKee sent the ball in towards goal
both times. The first time it caused a scramble in front of the goal cage with Mavin Martin managing to
pop one past the Catawba goalie. The second time Laura Hills got a stick on the ball as McKee sent
it in and deflected it into the cage. The score stayed at 2-2 through the second half despite the fact
that the Lady Cats dominated. Catawba didn’t even manage a shot on goal the whole half. For the game, the
Lady Cats outshot Catawba 26-5. But for the second time in a row, the game went into overtime. This time
there was to be no messing around with a double overtime tie like last week’s as the Lady Cats came
charging out and scored within the first three minutes of the overtime with Mavin Martin getting her second goal of
the game. The Lady Cats then held on for a 3-2 win. The Lady Cats challenge archrival Pfeiffer this afternoon
at 4:00.

Kevin Horan Davidson put it easily into the upper right corner as the goalie dived left. UNCC followed with a
goal of their own. Wallis Goodman then scored for the Cats and their speedy wing who scored their goal missed
when he hit the crossbar. Mike Mauzé and Tony Cabrales converted their shots as did one UNCC player. Then goalie
Pat Woodward made a kick save and clinched the shootout for Davidson.

In yesterday’s game at Winthrop, Davidson was just getting used to the blustery winds and sloping field when Winthrop scored
at point-blank range because of a miscommunication between Davidson’s fullbacks. It took Davidson a while to wake up, but once
they did, they dominated the play and rarely let Winthrop start any kind of attack. Minutes before half, Sean Austin
hit a loose ball (and the goalkeeper) into the net for a Davidson record—four goals from straight games. Austin has
admirably filled the scoring gap left by the departure of last year’s scoring sensation Chris Roberts. After a scoreless second
half, the Wildcats put Winthrop away two minutes into overtime on Cabrales’s corner kick which bounced untouched and was snapped
into the net by David Flowers’s head. The goal capped off a week which also included winning the Hampden-Sydney Invitational
over the weekend.

On Saturday, the University of Richmond fell to Davidson 1-0. The game was characterized by Davidson missing finish after scoring
opportunities time after time. Coach Slagle’s frustration was evident as he stormed up and down the sideline kicking towels and
coolers all over the place. Local sports editor Steve Soud has called him the “John Madden of college soccer.” With
five minutes left, Cabrales and Austin teamed up again for the only score of the game. Cabrales hit a long
ball which Austin ran down and kicked past the charging keeper. That put them in the finals against Hampden-Sydney the
next day. This Hampden-Sydney team was much improved over the team which lost by one goal to Davidson last year.
However, they were no match for the Wildcats on that day as Davidson played their strongest game of the season
on the way to a 3-0 win. Austin, Burr, and sweeper Jim Wright scored. Wright's goal was a beautiful example
of ball control from a player more known for his aggressive tackling than his ball skills. After picking up a
loose ball at midfield, he dribbled some 30 yards through various Hampden-Sydney defenders before launching a left-footed blast from 20
yards out. The goalie never had a chance. The tournament victories fulfilled two of Coach Slagle’s four goals this year.
The others are a winning record and the Southern Conference Championship. Davidson opens its conference schedule against Appalachian State on
Wednesday at Boone. The Wildcats are 5-1-1.
