Features

Rhodes Scholars Revisited

Distinguished Alumni excel in varied ways

By GEOFF DEMPSEY ’83

In March 1902, Cecil John Rhodes died and left by the terms of his will a trust fund of over
$3 million to provide scholarships at Oxford for colonial, American, and German students. Having left his native England and sailed
for South Africa at the age of 17, the young Rhodes amassed an immense fortune in South Africa through control
of the diamond mines and other minerals there. Over the course of his life, he drew up seven wills before
settling on the final one which set up the scholarships.

The will laid down guidelines (such as "fondness for and success in many outdoor sports" and "the qualities of manhood")
to ensure that the students selected would not be "merely bookworms." In addition, it read, "no student shall be qualified
or disqualified for election to a Scholarship on account of his race or religious opinions." This statement has ironically led
to many non-white students over the years receiving the benefits of the Rhodes Trust — a consequence almost certainly not
anticipated by Cecil Rhodes.

In 1977 the growing support for admitting female candidates to the Scholarship, led by the appeal of the Rhodes Trustees,
the British public, and former Rhodes Scholars in this country, resulted finally in an act by the British Parliament that
allowed women to be considered for the prestigious scholarships.

This past week The Davidsonian talked with three of Davidson’s past Rhodes Scholars, each of a different generation, to get
their reactions to the news of Davidson’s first female recipient of the Rhodes and to see how they remembered their
own experiences at Oxford.

Dr. Carleton B. Chapman, M.D. ’36, who currently teaches ethics and law at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in
New York City, worked with the Rhodes Trust in the early 1960s. “I recommended two changes,” he said, “1) to
admit women, and 2) to permit Rhodes scholars to go for certain purposes to universities in Britain other than Oxford.
The Trustees at that time, however, were not interested in either proposition.” The requirement to study at Oxford still holds
today.

Jason D. McManus ’56, currently the executive editor of Time magazine, studied from 1958 to 1961 as a Rhodes. He
notes that “[the question of women being considered for the scholarships] was not a great issue at the time. The
country’s consciousness had not yet begun to be raised about such issues. Also the will [of Cecil Rhodes] was viewed
as difficult, if not impossible to be altered.” Even as late as 1974, when A.S. (Pete) Kyle arrived at Oxford,
“most people,” Kyle says, “were in favor of letting women compete, the only problem being the overturning of the will.”

Scholars found unexpected flexibility

Each of the former Rhodes Scholars felt very positive about his experiences at Oxford, and they pointed to the flexibility
of the program. “The best thing about it,” says Dr. Kyle, now teaching at Princeton University, “was the educational system.
I went over thinking that I would study math, but changed to economics in less than a year. Coming in
with a good math background, I was better prepared to learn economics than someone starting from scratch, and the system
there allowed me to go at my own pace. I don’t think I could have done that anywhere else.” Kyle
went on to get a PhD in economics at University of Chicago in 1979. Dr. Chapman relates a very similar
experience: “I became discouraged with the bio-medical sciences and wanted to switch to jurisprudence. I talked it over with my
tutor; he urged me not to do that, but said for me to go and listen to Professor William Holsworth,
the ranking historian of English common law. I went and came to know Professor Holsworth personally; that changed my life.
I’ve been interested in the law ever since. Later, back in the States, I took night school law classes and
other things, though I never bothered to get a legal degree. Anyway, this kind of thing wouldn’t have happened at
an American university.”

McManus came to Oxford after having already completed an M.A. in Public Affairs at Princeton. “After four years at Davidson
and two at Princeton, I didn’t feel that I would go all the way back and start a B.A. over
again. So I started a Doctor of Philosophy in the Social Sciences, and though I never finished it, I en—

continued on 16

10

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 January 1983
