The Davidsonian/Friday, October 7, 1983

It’s Your Turn To Open Up
David Resnik

Have you ever wanted to talk to someone, I mean really talk to someone? Have you ever found yourself in
a room full of familiar strangers? If you answered yes to either of these two questions, then this essay may
have something to say to you.

It is often easy to make friends and acquaintances, especially in a friendly community like Davidson, but genuine friends are
hard to find. Many people tolerate us, a few understand us, and fewer still trust us. I’m not referring to
the kind of trust described in the Honor Code; I’m talking about the kind of trust that exists between true
friends.

We all need someone who we can trust with our darkest secrets, our fears, and our hopes. We need someone
to help us through the hard times and to share the good. In short, “We all need someone we can
lean on,” or so the saying goes.

So far most of what I’ve said seems self-evident, almost trivial. After all, who would not want an intimate relationship?
Though many of us want close relationships, few try hard enough. We are generally very polite and ingratiating to each
other at Davidson. We readily offer smiles, thank yous, and hellos. But this kind of social grace must transcend its
parliamentary superficiality if we are to treat each other with true respect. Manners should be more than mere social norms;
they should express the real reason behind them, namely, our genuine commitment to human beings.

Typical polite conversation rarely goes deeper than topics such as, “What’s your name / hometown / major?” (The usual mixer
line). In our dealings with people we see every day, we rarely get past “Hey, what’s up?” or “How’s it
going?” before we must go somewhere else.

In order to form intimate relationships, we must be willing to open ourselves up, to stop playing the games that
rule our lives. And we should apply this principle even to our most casual acquaintances; we should treat everyone as
if they could be a close friend. This kind of openness requires that we recognize everyone for their own self-worth.
We shouldn’t stereotype people as “my friend in class” or “my friend on the soccer team,” “my hallmate,” “my teacher,”
or even “my roommate.” These are all labels that describe only part of the person we know.

In order to pursue our relationships as deeply as possible, we must recognize people for who they are and not
for what they are. Immanuel Kant defended this same kind of openness with his moral maxim, “Treat people as ends
in themselves, not as means to an end.”

To All Davidsonian Readers:

The Davidsonian is your chance to make your views known. The opinions section is an open forum available to everyone
who wishes to make a statement about what is important to them. The Davidsonian both encourages and requires your input.
If you feel strongly about any issue of major or personal concern, write it down and present it to a
Davidsonian staff member, or bring it to the paper offices. We encourage input from students, faculty, alumni, and anyone who
reads The Davidsonian. This is your opportunity to speak out to the Davidson College community. We welcome both letters and
opinions articles. Tell us and everyone else what is good, bad, or interesting to you.As a means merely.” As we
open ourselves up to others, they will also be more willing to accept us. This kind of trust starts with
our most casual acquaintances and becomes more sincere as our friends become closer. Eventually, by opening ourselves up to others,
we will become more open with ourselves. Well, I've opened myself up. Now it’s your turn.

Resnik is a junior philosophy major from Chapel Hill, N.C. and is Executive Editor of The Davidsonian.

A. Dissident Plight
Thomas Vaccaro

In 1968 the New York Times printed an essay by Andrei Sakharov, a Russian nuclear physicist. Sakharov was a bold
critic of the repression of Soviet intellectuals and the lack of freedom of thought in the Soviet Union. His essay,
“Progress, Coexistence, and Intellectual Freedom,” discussed the need for action on many controversial issues involving the Soviet government. After the
essay had spread through much of the West, an outraged Soviet government decided to take punitive action against Sakharov. His
security clearance was taken from him, and he was forbidden to work on any Soviet “secret projects.” He had been
the mastermind behind Soviet development of the hydrogen bomb, but in less than a year, his position was relegated to
the Lebedev Institute of Physics, where he had been a graduate student some years before.

After continuing his fight for freedom of thought, Sakharov was later placed in internal exile within the city of Gorky
where he remains today with his wife Yelena Bonner. He has an extremely serious heart condition which is believed to
require medical facilities unavailable in Gorky. Soviet officials show no indication of caring for the aging couple’s welfare. In a
recent issue of Newsweek magazine, Yelena, who recently suffered a heart attack, stated, “For us there is no longer any
choice. We either get away from Gorky or die.”

Andrei Sakharov, although he is being treated as an extremely dangerous criminal, has only spoken out for his freedom of
expression, a freedom given to man by nature. There is nothing special about this freedom, and man should not feel
privileged to have it. Man should be born with the right to express his own ideas. This freedom allows for
free speech and the right to hold an opinion — both are obviously lacking in the Soviet Union. In his
essay for the New York Times, Sakharov writes that “intellectual freedom is essential to human society — freedom to obtain
and distribute information, freedom for open-minded and unfearing debate and freedom for pressure by officialdom and prejudices.”

In the Soviet Union, according to Sakharov, long prison terms are given “for dissemination of slanderous fabrications defaming the state
and social system. These laws are used to send people to prisons, labor camps, and psychiatric hospitals for the expressing
of ideas unsanctioned by the C.S.P.U., and for the reading and possessing books and manuscripts not approved by the authorities.”
It is not right to repress a man because of his political views. Sakharov’s essays have never contained any criminal
elements. The punishment of Sakharov seems to be part of a larger policy of repression of intellectual critics inside the
Soviet Union. It is sad that a government should feel compelled to confine its citizens’ very thoughts in order to
function.

Thomas Vaccaro is a freshman from Falmouth, Massachusetts.
