6 Friday, May 6, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Credit Hours
(Continued from page 1)

credit. At present, the College does not give credit for these classes because it does not consider them full courses.
He also commented that Davidson's present system has “slighted” lab students and the semester system will increase the disparity between
lab and non-lab courses if the College does not adopt a credit-hour system. Lab students currently receive up to 80
contact hours per term and still receive the same credit as students who receive only 50 hours a term in
class. Under a semester system without credit hours, lab students would receive the same credit for 90 contact hours as
non-lab students would receive for 45.

Wolf also mentioned that credit-hours would help professors adjust their workloads. Further, he said that credit hours would allow classes
meeting five days a week, such as language courses and humanities, to receive full credit for their extra contact hours.

A Course Is a Course
Religion professor Max Polley maintained that a credit-hour system would be “awfully complicated” and still favors the idea that “a
course is a course.” Polley also warned that under a credit-hour system students could “eat up a lot of hours”
in courses that may cut down on the breadth of their education. Wolf suggested that the College could stick with
certain core requirements in order to prevent students from narrowing the scope of their education.

Religion professor David Kaylor sees “advantages and disadvantages” in the credit-hour system. He feels that it would “probably be better”
to evaluate the “whole package” of semester system adjustments before adopting a credit-hour system. College President Samuel Spencer believes that
the credit-hour system and the course system both would work. On the whole, however, he still favors a course system.
He agrees with the rationale behind the course system of avoiding the “mechanical nature of the credit-hour system.”

Registrar Richard C. Burts doesn’t see “any particular need” for a credit-hour system, but he said that “if it’s what
the Faculty wants, then they can have it.” Although Wolf presented the proposal to the Faculty, he said that 40
other people have presented it. Wolf, Chemistry professor Roger Nutt, and other professors brought the proposal to the Faculty last
week, but Wolf said he had been considering a credit-hour system since last fall.

Southern Conference
(Continued from page 1)

out of the Conference would be a tragedy for the nonrevenue sports.” Davidson competes for Southern Conference championships in baseball,
soccer, tennis, wrestling, track, and golf as well. The Conference champion in baseball receives an automatic bid to the College
World Series, and the soccer champion has participated in the NCAA tournament. Most of the nonrevenue sports comprise the bulk
of their schedules from the Southern Conference. The football team has made a scheduling move toward competing for the championship.
For the 1983 season, they will play the Citadel and Furman (which has won the championship three consecutive years), and
for 1984 they have added Western Carolina. The Conference also passed a resolution making Davidson eligible for the championship next
year, despite the normal requirement of five Conference games.

Referendum
(Continued from page 1)

vey he undertook before the referendum petition began. “It will reflect the 48 percent who didn’t vote in the referendum,”
he said. “It should destroy the argument that the ones who didn’t vote would be more likely to support total
self-selection.” Gould hopes to have the survey completed by Monday. Gould hopes to get the Senate to vote on the
proposal this Tuesday but doubts any further action will be taken this year. “We don’t have a direction set right
now,” said SGA President Hunter Monroe. He said the next step would be to present a package of information including
the PCSC study and the results of the referendum and the survey to the Council on Campus and Religious Life.
According to the College Constitution, a proposal approved by a majority vote in a referendum can be communi-Here is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

cated to the Trustees as a "Petition for action."

Activities Tax Council (Continued from page 1)

Presentation and allocation of funds for the decrease. Hobart Park funding rose $1,000 to $4,000 on a request of $6,000,
the greatest increase from the '82-'83 budget. Co-editor Scot Myers felt a large increase was necessary to make magazine distribution
and technical quality equal the quality of submissions to the magazine. "I'm not unhappy; it was expected," said Myers of
the decision, "but I'm not satisfied."

The Miscellany requested and received $3,400, enough to finance two issues. "I'm quite pleased," said Co-editor Stewart Cauley. "It was
a fair compromise." Cauley had to defend his right to request ATC funds because the magazine uses faculty editors and
non-student contributions. A resolution was passed in the Senate stating that an organization must be student-run to be funded. But
Cauley convinced the ATC that The Miscellany is student-run and should receive money. The committee advised that the magazine should
pursue more student responsibility and outside aid.

The Wildcat Handbook obtained $550 on a request of $600. Editor Frances Palmer was "a little disappointed. We were asking
for the bare minimum." She added that only two years ago the handbook received $1,350, but Palmer felt certain she
could raise the money through ad sales. The ATC agreed: "a little more persistence" in selling space would solve the
problem, it advised.

The Youth Student Service Corps, a first-time recipient, acquired $600 on a request of $1,300. Director Doug Ammar said that
the money was a special measure for one or two years to rejuvenate the Y-Corps. He explained that the members
spent too much time raising money to recruit freshmen or perform services.

Amnesty International, another first-time group, received $400 on a $1,500 request. "I'm disappointed we didn't receive more, but wasn't surprised
at what we got," said AI Coordinator Hunter Monroe. Monroe also said that AI has tremendous support and can raise
its own funds, "but it could easily do more" with more money from the ATC.

Davidson Christian Fellowship received $400 of a $500 request. President Frank Ivey described himself as "resigned," but he "didn't expect
much more." DCF, he says, is losing out due to inflation because their allotment has not increased since 1980. Because
most of their budget comes from the members of DCF, the request covers only campus-wide events.

The Artists Series requested and received $7,000 as it has regularly for the past decade. Previous recipients, the Women's Center,
Freshmen Communiqué, carrier current radio station WDSR, and the Residence Hall Council no longer receive ATC funding.

The Activities tax grew 5 percent this year to $50 per student, mostly because need forced the ATC to overspend
last year's tax money by $6,600. But this has not solved the problem; the ATC again went over budget, this
year by $3,000. Reactions were generally favorable to another raise, but the feeling is less powerful than before. While most
student groups said they were satisfied, most wanted more. "If it was raised, the money would be well used," said
Monroe. Ammar agreed. "It should be raised to handle all the new organizations on campus such as Fellowship of Christian
Athletes, the Nuke group, AI and the Women's Concerns group," he said. Myers disagreed: "There's plenty of money to give
out, but much of it goes to the wrong places. It doesn't need to be increased — just redistributed."

Tully said the ATC will probably phase out Y-Corps, DCF, and AI funding over the next several years. DCF and
AI face significant student opposition to their perceived position on campus. The Y-Corps will stop receiving the money because it
will not need it in several years. The whole process went smoothly and fairly, Tully said. Davidson College Business Manager
Robert Currie was also pleased.

The committee reviewed the budget requests and heard arguments during interviews on Wednesday and Thursday of last week. Each member
completed a personal assessment of what the budget should be; these were compared and a consensus was reached on Friday.
The members of the ATC are Tully, Currie, Union Director C. Shaw Smith, Dean of Students Will Terry, Ester Kim,
Kathleen Huff, Danny Waddill, and Pat Sellers.
