The Davidsonian / Friday, April 15, 1983

Drop Add Policy too Stringent

William Naso

Davidson College enforces an administrative policy seemingly peculiar to this institution. This policy limits any student from withdrawing from an academic course without reasons of proven psychological disorder or severe educational problems, e.g., a student being placed in a third-level music course when he is only qualified for a first-level course. Thus, no student can merely drop a course for his own personal reasons without suffering a non-qualified “F.”

Although seldom mentioned, this stringent policy often results in academic and career setbacks for the Davidson student. Because he cannot withdraw from a class in which his academic performance is at best poor, the Davidson student suffers a loss of competitiveness in applying for graduate study compared to many other college students. For example, two pre-med students, one studying at Davidson, the other at Yale, are each enrolled in physics and chemistry. Both are near failing and realize that two such courses taken simultaneously are what one might term “academic suicide.” Consequently, the Yale student withdraws from his physics class, recovers to a “B-plus” in chemistry and continues to progress toward entrance to medical school — retaking the physics class in a summer session, wherein he devotes exclusive time to physics, thus securing an “A.” Conversely, our Davidson student cannot withdraw from either his physics course or his chemistry course and struggles to a “D” and “C-plus” respectively. The Davidson student, because of an administrative policy, suffers in grade-point average and ultimately in his chances for acceptance to medical school.

Besides the substantial loss of graduate school competitiveness, the Davidson student possesses less flexibility in his basic course selection. The very fact that the administration allots only one week for a student to decide upon the merits of a particular course illustrates that inflexibility. For example, if a student “adds” a course late in the “add-drop” period, he has one, or perhaps two, class meetings in which to evaluate the course and to decide whether that particular course is of the quality that he desires. The above example is not unusual — in fact, it is quite common. The Davidson student, within the framework of a one-week “drop” period, possesses limited flexibility in course selection — many times enrolling in an unsuitable course only because of the pressure of an impending one-week “drop” period.

Upon closer scrutiny, the “drop” dilemma appears inherent in the Davidson perception of scheduling; that is, if one “drops,” he must “add.” Thus, our pre-med student cannot “drop” a damaging course, even though it is to his advantage to do so, for at Davidson, no student can fall below the normal class load of three, unless, of course, he is neurotic or has some other psychological disorder. Even so, one wonders why such a student must reveal all his personal and emotional problems simply in order to “drop” a course. If a student maintains that he has had psychological problems, he must enumerate them to some recognized official.

One wonders if a Davidson student has control over his education if he cannot even determine if he will “add” or “drop.”which seems both embarrassing to the student and lacking in confidentiality overall. Furthermore, the policy of a minimum three-class schedule, in effect, diminishes the effectiveness and desirability of all Advanced Placement courses. A student who enters Davidson with six A.P. credits cannot concentrate on a demanding pre-law curriculum by taking several terms with only two classes; rather, he must either disregard his A.P. credits or, at most, be intent on early graduation. Although contrary to Davidson policy, the wisdom of a two-course load seems obvious for both our pre-med and pre-law students. Davidson prides itself on graduating students qualified for professional school, yet the College hampers its ability to do so by refusing to allow such students to take lighter loads, or, at the very least, to drop a course past the one-week mark of a term. One wonders if a Davidson student has control over his education when he cannot even determine what courses he will “add” or, specifically, “drop,” even within the guidelines of the area requirements. It seems that both the faculty and the administration often fail to recognize the vital point that they work for the students, not vice-versa. It is the student who pays over $8,000 per year, not the faculty member nor the administrator. Such a sum should be adequate for the privilege of course selection. Quality academic institutions such as Yale, University of Virginia, University of Richmond, Brown, and Bucknell University allot their students seven weeks, twelve weeks, seven weeks, twelve weeks, and six weeks respectively in order to determine the quality of a course. In fact, many state universities, U.Va. included, allow their students up until the last week of classes to drop a course. Obviously, Davidson would never lower itself to the level of a state school, but one wonders what is unreasonable about a four-week period in order to decide the worth of a course, or to determine whether the degree of difficulty is too overbearing when compounded with a similar course, such as in the example of our pre-med student. Perhaps the reasoning behind such a guideline stems from the notion that Davidson must maintain its high academic standards. However, when it is known that such quality schools such as Yale, U.Va., University of Richmond, Brown, and Bucknell all allow their students at least six weeks to withdraw from a course, that argument seems weak. The Davidson student, because he is not allowed to drop a course beyond the one-week deadline, loses competitiveness when applying for graduate programs, has less flexibility in course selection, and indirectly loses the total effectiveness of A.P. credits. One of the determining factors in the decision to change to a semester system was the fact that other institutions of similar academic standards worked well under the semester system. Why should voluntary withdrawal from a class be different? This is a question that both the faculty and the administration must confront if Davidson is to continue as a quality academic institution.

Naso is a freshman from Charlotte, N.C. The Davidsonian is seeking Opinions writers. If you are interested in voicing your view on anything from campus politics to international issues, give us a call at 892-2000 ext. 148.