THE Volume LXXII, Number 5 Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036 Friday, October 14, 1983

SGA Requests Trustee Action On Faculty Evaluation Issue
By DUNCAN FRASER

The SGA Senate voted unanimously on Tuesday evening to ask Interim President Frontis Johnston to refer the issue of student input on faculty evaluation to the Board of Trustees at its Oct. 28 meeting. This move was designed to break an apparent deadlock between the faculty and administration over the issue of qualitative and quantitative evaluation forms.

The faculty voted last winter term to discontinue the old quantitative form without providing an immediate working replacement. The primary reason given behind the discontinuation was that the student process of quantitatively ranking professors on a one-to-five scale (the Illinois Course Evaluation System or ICES) was given too much weight in the administrative decision-making process. In the past, the administration has used student input on evaluation forms in determining faculty salaries and tenure.

Last spring, the faculty proposed a prose-oriented evaluation form. The administration rejected that form because the results were difficult to tabulate.

No New Progress

The Senate Executive Committee requested the Senate’s action after SGA Faculty Evaluation Committee Chairman Jon Hain reported that there had been “no new progress toward developing a form.” Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann and the faculty Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) have not met this year to discuss student faculty evaluation forms, according to SGA President Hunter Monroe. Furthermore, the first meeting between Zimmermann and PAC Chairman professor Alexander McKelway is not scheduled until the seventh week of the term. Zimmermann was out of town and unavailable for comment.

Specific Requirements

Upon recommendation of the Senate Executive Committee, Monroe and Hain met separately with Zimmermann and McKelway to ask about specific requirements for a form. At Tuesday’s SGA meeting, Monroe said that McKelway felt he “could not envision having a quantitative form like the ICES form that could work to the satisfaction of the faculty.” Zimmermann stressed to Monroe that a tabulated form was needed due to the amount of information and limited time allowed to compile it.

Johnston said he was unfamiliar with the issue surrounding the controversy and would decide whether to present it to the Trustees for resolution after talking with both sides. McKelway said Thursday that he was surprised by the SGA’s move as he felt the faculty and administration “had just begun to discuss the issue.” He added that he did not feel the issue was deadlocked and said the PAC has already surveyed the issue at 21 other schools and would be prepared to present a number of options to the administration. McKelway stressed that he was seeking “a system, not a form” and thought the issue could be settled by the end of winter term if the Trustees took no action.

Grades Focus: Academic Pressure Overloads Students
By ELIZABETH WHITE

“Academic pressure? It’s just an accepted part of Davidson,” says junior Gene Hicks. Davidson prides itself on high academic standards, and when students choose to attend Davidson, most realize they will be facing a rigorous intellectual challenge.

Students gradually learn to adjust to this academic pressure; for some, it merely requires a little self-discipline. Many others, however, seek counseling to alleviate their frustrations. Although all Davidson students experience academic pressure at some time in their college career, most agree that the toughest adjustment comes freshman year. Freshmen are faced with muchMore freedom, tempting social functions, and an entirely different workload than they have experienced in high school. They must set priorities, accept their limitations, and do the best they can. English professor Gill Holland said that most pressure is unnecessary; a majority of it stems from procrastination. For freshmen, having three classes as opposed to high school’s five or six presents the problem of learning how to budget extra time. Many feel pressure to participate in extracurricular activities as they did in high school and often overload themselves.

Counselor for Student Affairs Barbara Ballard pointed out, “Most students can do the work here. The problem is when they find there is something interfering with doing the work.” Ballard said she tends to see a lot of freshmen when they start getting tests back. Most do not get the grades they were accustomed to making in high school, and they often put pressure on themselves to achieve those expectations. Many fail to realize that they must adjust to different teaching styles and different tests; many just have to learn how to study. One freshman woman observed that “having other people in the same boat” helps her handle the adjustment. She added that in contrast to her large public high school, Davidson professors, hall counselors, and friends are willing to talk to you and that helps ease the pressure considerably.

Pressure at Davidson comes from various places, in varied guises. Freshman advisor Katie Dagenhart in- (Continued on page 5)

Watts dorm banner speaks for itself
Peggy Pierotti

Pitchers Controversy Provokes Reaction
By JOHN GATHINGS

An unofficial student group dubbed PITCHERS has formed to protest the College’s decision to stop serving pitchers of beer in the 900 Room. PITCHERS (an acronym for People in the College Hating Every Right Stolen) co-founder George Thompson came up with the idea “as soon as I read about it in The Davidsonian,” he said. Thompson and co-founder Taylor Bowen argue against removing pitchers from the 900 Room because they feel that the action is an “insult” to the Honor Code. Also, Thompson said that even if students were going to break the law as the College seems to believe, students could still drink beer in the 900 Room. “The Honor Code is a big part of the student community,” Thompson said.

The idea of honor “pervades all aspects of the College, and taking away the pitchers because someone underage might drink doesn’t support this,” Thompson said. He also feels that if students wanted to drink, an older person could buy them a beer, and the problem of underage drinkers would remain.

Dining Service Director Carlton Pritchard, in whose name the 900 Room liquor license is made, sees the situation differently. He feels the action is necessary because the College has a duty to see that no one underage drinks alcoholic beverages in the 900 Room. “For example,” he said, “if I sell you ten beers I can’t see who is drinking them. There is a possibility that there is some cheating. I am sure no one is doing (Continued on page 5)

Inside This Week
‘Grades Focus: which came first: the major or the GPA? Pages 3 and 4
‘Dead: Sixty Davidsonians and one professor explored new ways of being last Sunday. Page 6
‘Babes in Buzzers: College Bowl infants prove their stuff. Page 7
‘Football: It’s a win! Guilford falls to the Cats. Page 8
‘Road Trips: Opinions travels the highways of life this week. Page 11
‘Humor: Back page