The Davidsonian
Friday, March 18, 1983

Barry Elledge and Rob Spach

I believe that creation science should be taught in all American public schools whenever Darwin’s theory of evolution is taught. Unfortunately, however, a simple statement like the one above is enough to inflame the mildest tempers, and such statements have done just that ever since Charles Darwin published his theories on evolution a century ago. It is a simple request that creation science be taught in biology classrooms. Some, though, fear that to do so would be in violation of this country’s constitutional separation of Church and State.

First of all, the request of creationists is not that creation science be taught as truth, but only as one perspective of the truth. It is a matter of academic freedom, a right to choose, but how can one choose freely from only one alternative? As it stands now, evolution is often the only alternative. Without opposing theories, evolution may be perceived as an absolute truth.

The advocates of evolution are quick to point out that creation science is not science but religion. Triumphant in discovering this fundamental “weakness,” they claim that creationism is founded in faith, and thus it cannot be taught in the classroom. What then is Science? Is not science founded in faith? Yes, it is. But science is such a dynamic force in the world today that people have all but forgotten that science is fallible, that science is founded upon certain unprovable principles that must be accepted in faith. Without faith in these fundamental principles (the legitimacy of cause and effect, the idea of a unified system — or that laws are universal, and Occam’s Razor, to name a few), everything that science has built up is invalid.

Indeed, in any arena, the best that science can ever do is to provide plausible explanations for the phenomena that surround us. To say that creation science is weak because its foundation lies in faith is a weak argument, because in essence, all of our actions and beliefs are a result of faith in something. If nothing else, we have faith (usually) that the world exists and that we are able to perceive it. Creationism in the biology classroom would perhaps highlight this often overlooked aspect of life and, more specifically, science.

From a yet more important stance, we as a people — as human beings — have a duty to raise our young and to teach them what we know and believe. After all, we impose our civil law on them, and we pass down the customs which we have found to engender social harmony. We teach them these things so that they might avoid the pain and suffering we and our ancestors have endured in seeking the truth. But who decides truth? At the present time, some of us believe in evolution, some of us believe in creation science, and some, a fortunate few, do not find the two mutually exclusive. Our nation’s schools already teach evolution. Is it such a bold and irrational step to ensure that our schools teach creationism, too?

Self Selection Must Return
Ross Holt

The Davidson College 82-83 catalogue states, “Affiliation with the Patterson Court fraternities is based on individual self-selection. Freshmen are introduced to the court by open houses and invitations to meals, and they are invited to big dances and informal parties throughout the year. During the winter term, freshmen may select the house they wish to join and every effort is made to place them in the houses of their first choice.” This, of course, is an ideal view of self-selection, geared not to inform but to sell. It suggests a unique and seemingly painless social structure, an eating system in which anyone can find...a niche. It is misleading, to say the least. At most, it is insidious. Based upon what exists now at Davidson, the catalogue lies to prospective students, creating a false impression of social life here. That impression plays a significant part in some students’ ultimate decisions to come here. At a school which values honesty enough to build an honor code around it—a “most sacred tradition”—this contradiction is nothing less than unacceptable. What exists now is an on-campus fraternity system which emasculates Patterson Court of any legitimate claim to self-selection. The fact that fraternities must possess the power of exclusion to retain their national charters should bring this to light. If that is not enough, the existence of the idea of oral encouragement is. Encouragement implies discouragement, however passive that discouragement is. The day the school gave its blessing to oral encouragement to allow fraternities their selectivity, it sold out self-selection. In short, no self-selection can exist when even one house fails to apply itself to the spirit of the idea. A “two-tiered” eating system has evolved, which, translated from bid system supporter lingo, means two classes (tier itself implies that one system, be it bid or self-selection, is in a higher position). Classes, in turn, connote fragmentation, and in that the “small-group social system” loses its relation to the whole. We cannot clean up this mess simply by altering the catalogue’s description to fit the current situation. Self-selection is indeed a unique—and important—idea even if it means eliminating houses from the court that choose not to follow its tenets. A “one-tier,” one-class self-selected system would allow the houses to maintain a group identity and at the same time would promote the interest of the whole college community.

Holt is a Sophomore from Asheboro, NC and managing editor of the Davidsonian.

If teaching creation science in a biology classroom is a false step, we must decide why. Perhaps the strongest argument that has been leveled against it is that it would be a violation of the constitutional separation of Church and State. This is a possibility that both evolutionists and creationists should take quite seriously, for the ramifications of such a constitutional violation in America might not be readily apparent. Moreover, the Constitution is something that Americans should by no means forget: indeed, it is an ideal of this country worthy of much respect. But religion is important too, and there are good reasons to consider teaching creation science in biology classrooms. As the holy writings of the Rgveda teach, Indra was the preeminent factor in the Creation. For in the beginning the universe existed in two parts: that of gods and men, which was light and warmth and moisture, and that of the demons, which was darkness. And the place of darkness was ruled by a serpent whose name was Vitra. But in a terrific battle, Indra slew the serpent Vrtra and burst open his belly, and out flowed the waters of the celestial ocean. There is truth to be found in this understanding of the Creation, and it is my suggestion that such truth be taught alongside Darwin’s theory of evolution in America’s public schools.

Elledge is a Sophomore mathematics major from Boone, NC. Spach is a Junior center major from Winston-Salem.

The Davidsonian welcomes opinions on any subject from students, faculty, or any member of the Davidson community. We reserve the right to edit opinions. Opinions articles must be turned in by 7 p.m. Monday.

Summer Camp Counselor OPENING IN NEW ENGLAND

Camp Beckett (Boys camp) opening for counselors and program specialists, also nurses (R.N.). Located in western Massachusetts within driving distance of Boston and NYC, the camp offers a broad camping program—emphasizing personal development. Contact the placement office for more information.