The Davidsonian Special Edition / Friday, December 2, 1983

Students: Pawns In Semester Game
Katrina Lehman

Quite a few points need to be addressed seriously and taken into account when putting the semester system into effect.
The first point I wish to address is student input. There was not an adequate amount of student input on
a measure of this magnitude. According to the Report to the Faculty of the Committee to Study the Semester Calendar
(May, 1979), “The committee has conducted open hearings with faculty and students, made itself available to hear any interested individual...”
The only open hearing in which students could partake occurred October 6, 1982, at four o’clock. For a measure of
this size, only one student was on the committee, and he was a non-voting member. Also, it is my understanding
that the student vote was thrown out during the faculty meeting concerning the adoption of the semester plan. Therefore, it
can be summed up that the faculty has not made fully aware of student opinion on this matter. The students
appear to be a playing board for the game of chess among the faculty members. The pawns, semesters vs. quarters,
trample the students through the ongoing debate.

Some of the arguments for the semester system are as follows: 1) more time to assimilate material, 2) greater compatibility
with other schools' calendars, 3) absences due to sickness will be reduced, 4) reduced registration periods, 5) awkwardness of split
term would be eliminated, 6) “a change would encourage all of us, individuals and departments, to rethink what we are
doing” (Report of the Semester Planning Committee, September, 1982). If one takes each of these arguments and analyzes them carefully,
one could see that the benefits of the proposed semester system are tenuous at best.

The first argument concerning the assimilation of material is simply not true. Through talking to various students who have studied
under both plans, I have discovered that there is no difference in the amount or degree of material assimilated. You
learn the same amount; the only difference is a change in study habits. There is also a greater degree of
pressure during exam week under the semester plan. So much pressure, in fact, that at one school the suicide rate
goes up during exam week. On a Monday-Wednesday-Friday plan, these students found that you put off your work more easily
whereas here you are forced to keep up with your work. The motivation to study is much greater. Students experience
much less pressure during exam week because they have only three exams instead of five and ten weeks of material
instead of fourteen to review. It seems on this count that the percolator theory doesn’t wash.

The second argument is the question of school calendars. According to the committee, semesters would allow more opportunities to exchange
with other schools. How many of these exchange credits would be accepted? Another question I have is, how many students
and faculty participate in exchange programs? I don’t believe there is a strong majority of the student body that wishes
to change the present system for this reason. Also, according to “Blue Sky,” a report conducted before the switch to
quarters, one of the reasons for changing to the four-term calendar was for a broader exchange program!

A third argument for the semester system is a question of absences due to sickness. This does not make sense
at all. Hypothetical situation: a student is sick Monday and Tuesday out of any given week. According to those in
favor of the proposed system, he would be missing very little class time. In essence, however, in some classes he
would miss one-third of a week’s material and in other classes one-half a week’s material. If, however, a student missed
a class on Monday and Tuesday, he would only be missing two-fifths of a week’s material. These fractions show in
practice less time would be missed in class on the present system.

Another argument for semesters is that registration is reduced to two times a year. At the outset, this seems logical.
There would be less time spent in registration; however, a trade-off would have to be made in the amount of
flexibility in selecting classes. There would be less flexibility concerning other school activities such as sports in coordinating schedules and
in the variety of available classes.

An argument concerning the split term is valid, except that here again a trade-off would occur. As the present system
stands, vacation time affects only the winter term. Under the proposed plan, week-long breaks would occur in both the fall
and spring terms. Which is better? It seems logical to me that one split is better than two. Either program
is going to have split times, so this argument is invalid as well.

The last argument I wish to address appeared as the final argument for change in the Report of the Semester
Planning Committee (September, 1982), “A change would encourage all of us, individually and as departments, to rethink what we are
doing. It’s been 16 years since the ‘Blue Sky’ began.” In other words, the argument to change is for change
itself. This is absurd. It is comparable to a manufacturer giving a factory a billion dollars to produce something new
with no guidelines. I do not wish to play the part of aLab rat in a faculty experiment. Therefore, the
question that appears prominent to me is, why change? The committee studying the proposed change voted among itself to remain
on the quarter system (May, 1979) with one of the reasons as follows: “There is no need to change a
system that is working well.” In my opinion, Davidson is noted as being a unique liberal arts college because of
its honor code and trimester system. The four-term calendar was, in fact, one of the major reasons I chose Davidson
over other schools of the same caliber. It is absurd to me to accept a change in programs with no
plan or organization beforehand. Too many problems and too many unanswered questions exist to facilitate a change of this measure.
The arguments given for the proposed system seem invalid as well after a close scrutiny of them. I believe Davidson
should remain on its quarter system, a system that works fine as it is. Lehman is a freshman from Prospect,
KY.

Semesters: A Chance For Real Learning
Dr. Thomas Kazee

When the editors of The Davidsonian asked me to write a statement concerning the semester system, my initial response was
negative. I have not been the most outspoken member of the faculty on this issue, nor do I consider it
to be as critical as many others seem to think it is. If we reject semesters, chaos and darkness will
not ensue; Davidson will remain an excellent place to get a college education. Similarly, the implementation of a semester system
will not bring the walls of Chambers tumbling down about us. However, given that a semester system has been approved
by the faculty, I think it is important to carefully consider the benefits of such a change. Those benefits, albeit
undramatic, are significant.

The single most important thing to be gained from a semester system is consistent with what we most want to
create at Davidson: an environment which encourages learning. Real learning — the kind that endures — is most likely to
occur when students have the opportunity for careful thought and reflection. One often hears the word percolation used to describe
this phenomenon. I prefer a simpler word, which, while less rich in imagery, is more precise: thinking. We are told
that a liberal arts education teaches you how to think, but this ability is not likely to be nurtured in
a system in which there is little time for, or, more generally, the complexity of knowledge. In specific situations, the
potential for improvement in the learning environment is clear. For example, writing a research paper of high quality in a
ten-week term is quite difficult, particularly if several weeks must pass before a student has sufficient background knowledge to begin
thinking about the assignment. In reading papers, it often occurs to me that many promising ideas are incompletely developed. In
a fifteen-week semester, students would be able to allow those ideas to incubate and grow. They would, in short, be
more likely to learn about the world rather than simply to memorize a bit of it for a short time.
Thinking, researching, and writing takes time — not in the classroom, of course, but time which can be extremely productive,
nonetheless.

Numerous other gains would be realized with a change to semesters. A notable change (and, to me, the most significant
immediate improvement) would be the elimination of our subdivided winter term. A Christmas break which divides two semesters, one completed
and the other yet to begin, makes much more sense than breaking up a ten-week term into three- and seven-week
segments. Additionally, the argument that Davidson should consider a semester system because most other schools use such a schedule is
not without substance. Student flexibility to take advantage of programs offered by schools using the semester system and to participate
in semester internship programs would be increased. Faculty exchange and sabbatical opportunities would be similarly enhanced. Students would also be
placed in a more competitive position in their search for summer jobs, given that now their counterparts from semester schools
may get those jobs before Davidson students finish the spring term. Furthermore, registration and exam periods would occur only two
times per year, and students would have increased flexibility to schedule desired courses since more courses would be offered each
semester. Though no single advantage matches the importance of an enhanced learning environment, the cumulative weight of these improvements is
impressive.

I was an undergraduate and graduate student in schools using three-term schedules, and have taught in both term and semester
systems. Based on that experience, and considering arguments by both proponents and opponents of the proposed change, it is my
opinion that semesters are preferable. The pace of academic life at institutions using the semester system is more manageable, and
learning (as opposed to the daily pounding of knowledge into students’ heads — knowledge which possesses a distressingly short “half-life”)
is subsequently more likely to take place. A switch to semesters will, in a limited but significant way, improve the
quality of the Davidson experience. We should not be skeptical of change simply because it represents the unknown, or creates
temporary problems of adjustment. The decision to institute change should be based on an objective analysis of costs and benefits.
In this case, I think such an analysis indicates that a move to semesters is well worth the effort.

Kazee is an Assistant Professor of Political Science.
