10 Friday, May 6, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Seniors Head For Real World

By TRACY THOMPSON

The Corporate World

Sarah Nock
Math major (with a strong computer background) Sarah Nock will move to Marietta to work for Lockheed-Georgia. Among other things, she will be doing computer color graphics for top executives.

Lisa Herard
Fellow math major Lisa Herard will be going North to work for the National Security Agency in Washington, D.C. Her first two years will be mostly schooling and training. After that, no secret message will be safe in this country. Moral of this story: Major in Math.

(Seniors have accepted jobs with Proctor and Gamble; Traveler's Insurance; NCNB; First Union; Guest Quarters; Interstate Securities)

Summer Experiences (Internships)

Lyn Bolen
Art history major Lyn Bolen will go from Charlotte’s Mint Museum to New York’s Guggenheim for the summer. Bolen, who last term worked with such Mint exhibitions as an iron show from the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, will travel to New York to work with a program called “Learning to Read Through the Arts,” a joint venture between the Guggenheim and Rutgers. In January, Bolen plans to attend Art History grad school at UVa.

Jean Covell
Jean Covell will spend her summer as Summer Associate at Armstrong Memorial Presbyterian Church in Gastonia, N.C. Her duties will include Bible studies, senior citizens programs, youth groups, and hospital visits. During the regular minister's month-long vacation, Covell will preach four times and “may even have to do funerals.” Next year she will do social work and her tentative plans for the future include seminary or a degree in Christian education.

Missions

Lindsay Biddle
Next year philosophy major Lindsay Biddle will serve as a Volunteer-in-Mission to the New Hope Methodist-Presbyterian Church in North Pole, Alaska. She will be choir director, youth group leader, and church secretary. It is her secret wish to “meet / fall-in-love / marry / shack-up with the bushy red-haired man sawing wood on the Wrigley Spearmint gum commercials which appear daily during M*A*S*H.”

Dave Bruns and a host of others
Dave Bruns will spend the summer working for Bread for the World. After Christmas, he plans to go to Kenya to teach school. Those planning to join Bruns in Kenya include James Barrat, Buck Bradbury, Dave Fleming, Brian Hamilton, Chuck Hasty, Mike Mason, Gary McDonald, John Stanback, and Steve Stine. Also considering this trip are Cathy Cantwell and Elizabeth McMillan.

Going West

Economics major Carol Roche is heading back to Colorado. She'll spend her summer with the Forest Service in Summit County. Jon Lawry and Mark Sheffield are going cross-country on bicycles. From June to October, they'll pedal across the ol’ U.S.A.

Round ‘em up!

Elizabeth McMillan, Stan Hynds, Sandy Fossett, Mary Frye, and Danny Waddill are going to be cow hands on the A Bar A Ranch in Wyoming for the summer. After that, Waddill plans on using his newly-acquired wrangler skills to travel with Colin the Magician (our own C. Shaw Smith, Jr.) on his tour.

Cute Couples

We have two Davidson couples who are going to juggle married life with working or studying together. After a summer wedding, Gordon Turnbull and Betsy Thomas ’82 will settle inNashville, Tennessee. In the fall, they will both start work at the Harpeth Hall School where Mr. Turnbull will teach English and Mrs. Turnbull, computers. August will be a big month for Richard Davis and Lucy Marshall. After an August 6 wedding, the Davises will begin business school at Vanderbilt.

Graduate School

Our graduate school list is impressive! Harvard, Berkeley, Johns Hopkins, Chapel Hill, etc. We’re going to have lots of doctors, lawyers, and MBAs, as usual, plus a few going into other fields. Among them: Elizabeth Wilson has received a scholarship to the University of Chicago to study comparative religions. The Masters program there is one year, then three more for a PhD. Wilson plans to teach after she completes her studies there. Religion major Chris Marshburn plans to “double major” at Vanderbilt. Next fall, he will begin a five-year program in which he will graduate with a Masters of Divinity and a Law degree. Marshburn plans to work on social issues such as poverty and civil rights.

July Experience Lures Teens to Davidson

Davidson College offers a popular program called “The July Experience” every summer to rising high school seniors. This year, about 75 students will stay on campus from July 3-29. The main purpose behind the July Experience is, according to Program Director Professor William Hight, “a look at college an entire year before they apply. They can get experiences here they can’t get anywhere else.” The students who apply for the four-week course must have a good academic record and be socially active as well. These highly motivated, highly intelligent students “resemble the Davidson student.” Many, in fact, do come to Davidson. “It was a super experience, the reason I came to Davidson,” said sophomore Thurston Hatcher.

The schedule resembles a rigorous Davidson student’s, but the July students are strictly supervised by the staff. They attend the two classes they choose for the month, for almost three hours. Their study and eating time is supervised as well. Between 7:30 a.m. and 9 p.m., they have three free hours. The academics try to challenge the students with regular classes. Classes range from Essay Writing with English professor Gill Holland to Star with Physics professor Robert Manning. Ten courses are offered in all. Davidson seniors Ed Whitesides, Ed Harlan, William King, Elizabeth Williams, Joyce Robinson; junior Ester Kim; and sophomores Todd Wiebusch and Alva Moore are the student hall counselors this year. The halls strongly resemble the freshman halls and provide the unique roommate/hallmate contacts of a college.

Recreation comes provided in large amounts at the lake and on campus. Students use most campus athletic facilities. The sports offered, according to the catalogue, are “team games and tournaments are organized. Basic instruction in tennis, fencing, sailing, water skiing, and swimming.” The academic facilities such as the labs and the library give the students a good feel for the academic side of college. The constant mixing of students gives a taste of the social life. The program schedules many parties, discos, and movies. Students critique academics, athletics, and the social side of this program at the end of the term. The whole experience, excluding books and personal expenses, comes to $775. The academics students take here cannot be transferred.