Friday, September 30, 1983 / The Davidsonian

~ ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT ~

Othello Fails To Entertain Local Audience

NC Shakespeare Production A Disappointment

By ROSS HOLT

The North Carolina Shakespeare Festival, this state's foremost professional theatre group, generally delivers entertaining and well-mounted Shakespeare. The acting is
usually quite professional, and towering but controlled sets combined with exquisitely inventive costumes generally serve to translate the Elizabethan idiom
successfully to a quite diverse audience.

The Festival’s production of Othello Wednesday night, however, failed in its chief purpose — to entertain its audience during an
evening at the theatre. The production began strongly and sustained its pace and interest until the intermission. But after the
break, it foundered quickly amid garbled lines, tiring actors, and most noticeably, the weakness of Sydney Hibbard’s Othello.

Hibbard, a last-minute replacement for Milledge Mosley, although a powerful presence on stage, muffled almost all his lines with an
accent which sounded as if it originated somewhere between Jamaica and High Point, NC. His unhumored, mostly one-level portrayal made
Othello look like a device for Iago’s manipulations rather than a man given to jealousy and caught in a web
of deceit.

In a sense, this production might well have been the story of Iago. One of Shakespeare’s richest characters, one with
a weak Othello. But when Eric Zwemer’s Iago stole this show, it must have been the crime of the century.
Zwemer managed the difficult task of making Iago more than a cartoon of evil without overmotivating him. With his jerky
movement and brilliant command of the lines, Zwemer communicated Iago’s bitterness and jealousy without undermining the character’s biting humor.

Zwemer’s achievement and the omnipresence of Iago in the play so overwhelmed the already weak portrayal of Othello that the
production slowed considerably when Iago was not on stage. Since he appears only sporadically during the last two acts of
the play, the end — and the play’s tragic actions to which everything leads — petered out and simply fizzled.

Although he without a doubt controlled the production, the Festival’s reliable and highly talented core members filled out even the
smallest supporting characters. Mary Hopeman did with Desdemona what she could. A choice role, Othello’s wife fell prey Wednesday night
to Hibbard’s one-dimensional performance. Othello seemed too distant to allow the kind of interaction that would have given Hopeman’s performance
the spark it needed. The other characters, notably Henson Keyes’s Roderigo and Randell Haynes’s Cassio, provided solid, human catalysts for
the machinations of Iago.

Director Malcolm Morrison made good use of the sparse set: two platforms backed by two huge monoliths. The design allowed
Mark Pirolo’s staggering costumery to achieve its full, regal effect while at the same time not being overwhelmed by it.
The standards used to denote scene locations were a stroke of brilliance — ably indicating a sense of place without
intruding upon either lines or movement. Still, the whole set design would be better served by a theater than an
auditorium. Its effect, indeed, could only be enhanced on the Festival's tilted stage in High Point where a larger battery
of lights would eliminate the whitewashing it got in Love.

Despite Zwemer’s brilliance and the staunch supporting cast, despite an imaginative stage, Othello still failed. Though it succeeded in communicating
the idiom and the language, it was scuttled by an Othello who was not only manipulated, but controlled by Iago.

Conan The Barbarian Runs Popcorn And Poetry

By MATT MORRIS

Conan the Barbarian (1982) Produced and directed by John Milius. Screenplay by John Milius. Based on the stories by Robert
E. Howard and the Marvel Comic Book. Rating: ** Viewer’s Guide: Frank Frazetta frankness and Three Stooges violence.

Since the beginning of the Marvel Comic book Conan the Barbarian back in 1969, a large cult following has built
up around the Robert E. Howard creation. Books, magazines and art shows have centered around Conan and now we have
the inevitable movie. Much of Conan’s mystique derives from his very anti-hero nature. If there is money in it for
him, he’d just as soon chop up a good guy with his saber than a bad guy. What separated the
Conan books and comics from other sword and sorcery fare, however, was its beautiful, lyrical quality. Each page of the
comic book (especially the early issues) reads like a Canto from Dante’s Divine Comedy. Unfortunately, overrated director John Milius can’t
decide whether he should strive for poetic or popcorn pleasures and his Conan movie ends up failing miserably in both
categories. The plot limps from episode to episode and the film appears to have been edited with all the precision
of a Hyborian sword. Arnold Schwarzenegger as Conan is no help either — his acting recalls John Agar in Wine,
Women and Horses (1937)... back to the dumbbells, dumbbell. James Earl Jones is creepy for a while as the half
man-half snake villain, but suddenly it seems he’s decided that he’s acting in an episode of Batman and goes to
summer camp, Mantan Moreland style. The saving grace for Conan the Barbarian is the exquisite performance by hard-nosed (albeit slightly
big-nosed) Sandahl Bergman. Her fiery performance as Conan’s woman almost makes up for the otherwise poor acting and dreary direction.
As one critic put it — “Conan adequately depicts the Stoned Age”... you might enjoy it if you are.
