Wednesday, December 14, 1983 / The Davidsonian

OPINIONS

Central American Realities Must Be Acknowledged
Dr. Brian Shaw

I hesitate to respond to Dr. Hernandez-Chiroldes’s essay, “Quantitative Values and Qualitative Concepts,” in the Davidsonian of December 7. To attempt a point-by-point rebuttal of the distortions and logical fallacies which mar the essay would be a lengthy and tedious undertaking, of profit neither to myself nor to the readers of this paper. More to the point, perhaps, is my reluctance to return to this piece and to dwell upon the surprisingly ad hominem attacks which it contains against myself and my views of Central American politics. I do, however, feel compelled to briefly note three things about the present situation in Central America. These realities need be addressed if any sense is to be made of the events taking place in the region, or if any hope is to be had of achieving a just and lasting peace there. These are the following:

1) First, it must be stated forthwith that contemporary Nicaragua is not a civil libertarian paradise. I know of no person whose opinion I respect who ever alleged that it is. But neither, it must immediately be added, is this an option which history has placed on the Nicaraguan agenda. Nicaragua is a desperately poor country burdened with a long history of foreign domination. The struggle by the Nicaraguans against a half-century of dictatorship—sponsored and supported by successive American administrations—has left neither the Nicaraguan economy nor its political system in a state of robust good health. If one adds to this unhappy history the continuing assaults on Nicaragua by hostile armed forces, one clearly sees the real constraints imposed upon the Nicaraguans. I know of no nation which has responded to a state of siege by suddenly expanding its democratic institutions. The history of our own country is instructive in this regard. The first draconian legislative restrictions of political rights in this country, the Alien and Sedition Acts of 1798, declared almost any criticisms of the government a crime. Indeed, as to the question of elections following a revolutionary situation, it was almost a decade after our own struggle against foreign domination that free elections were held to formalize the new state of affairs. These lapses from strict democratic procedures, it must be stressed, occurred under conditions much more favorable to their development than those currently experienced by the Nicaraguan government.

2) What, then, are the options available to the Nicaraguans, if not the opportunity to suddenly transform their battered nation into a democratic showcase? Two options, it seems to me, are preeminent. The first of these is a continuation and intensification of the efforts of the Sandinista government to improve the welfare of its citizens. This is a regime which does seek to address the very real material and social needs of the vast majority of its people. In the fields of health, education and employment, the Sandinistas have acted vigorously in the face of staggering odds to improve the welfare of the nation. And the Nicaraguan people have responded to these attentions. They have not, as the Reagan administration initially claimed, gone over to the contras. They have, on the contrary, wielded what few weapons they have against the contras, in support of their nation. The second option is a return to the prerevolutionary status quo, achieved with some help from the armies of Honduras, Guatemala, El Salvador—and the United States. This would be the reestablishment of a brutal authoritarian dictatorship in Nicaragua. Are the democratic liberties so noisily demanded by opponents of the Sandinistas to be installed in Nicaragua at the point of El Salvadorian and Guatemalan bayonets? Would the extension of the government-sponsored death squads of Guatemala and El Salvador be a victory for “freedom” or “democracy” in Nicaragua? I think not.

3) Finally, it needs to be noted that the universally unhappy situation in Central America is not one amenable to a purely military solution achieved by the armed forces of any party in the region. The choice for American policymakers—and for the American citizens, in whose name they act—is not simply between isolationism and military intervention. There are, on the contrary, options available to the United States, the Nicaraguans, and the other concerned states of Latin America, which are not predicated upon a total military victory by one side or another. The decidedly anti-communist governments of Mexico, Venezuela, Colombia, and Panama—the so-called Contadora group—have actively lobbied for a negotiated settlement to the conflict.

The Reality
Eric Hill

Never has an assault on man’s mind been quite as severe as the one by those who proclaim the superiority of faith to reason. Such an assault was made in the Opinions item entitled “The Kernel of Faith,” which appeared in the last issue of The Davidsonian (Dec. 7). Reason was never mentioned in the article, but when one declares that faith is the tool to be employed in discovering reality, he leaves reason no possible function. So what is this “reason,” and why am I so upset when I hear it slandered? Reason, or rational thought, involves the integration of interpreted sense data (percepts) into concepts, which are the tools of human thought. The senses represent one’sHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Sole means of contact with reality. The quality and quantity of sense data used in rational thought to develop concepts will determine the quality of the concepts, that is, the degree to which they correspond to the facts of rational thought; without them, no thought would be possible. Even deductive reasoning is based on relationships rooted in sense experience. Why is rational thought so important? Well, all organisms that have ever existed for any length of time have had some means of survival available to them. Examples include superior speed or strength, good instincts, and many others. Man has no instincts past the age of one year and cannot be said to display superiority in any physical characteristic. His main means of survival is his mind. The quality of his concepts (i.e., their degree of correspondence with the facts of reality) will determine whether he is to survive, and if he survives, the quality of that survival. Our complex society insulates some members from the need to think rationally, because the quality of the thought of a minority of individuals creates enough wealth for virtually all to survive; however, if one abstracts away from society and imagines a man on a deserted island, with no one to help him but himself, his decision whether or not to use his mind will be his decision whether or not to survive. The fact that men do not live on deserted islands does not diminish the value of such an abstraction. So where does faith fit into all this? Ayn Rand defines faith as the “commitment of one’s consciousness to beliefs for which one has no sensory evidence or rational proof.” Thus, the decision to abandon reason for the sake of faith is the decision to abandon reality, to abandon the mind, and to abandon life. The “leap of faith” is head first, off a thousand-foot cliff. In light of this, it is not surprising that the authors of “The Kernel of Faith” consider dreams of financial success as opiate-like. First, let me say that financial success is nothing but a proxy for a comfortable life. Rational men pursue money, not for its own sake, but for the things for which it can be traded — food, clothing, Tanqueray, etc. Second, for the man who considers the world to be unintelligible, and considers himself but a pawn, buffeted to and fro by forces of good and evil beyond his control, who thinks that his chance of leading a comfortable life is directly proportional to how hard he wishes for it, his goals will never be anything but dreams. The rational man realizes that he controls his own destiny, and that all successful goal-directed action involves the use of reason. He knows that with the proper use of his mind, all goals, including the goal of a comfortable life, become attainable. The rational man also realizes that in order to get money, he must provide something of value in exchange for it, and he knows that the things he possesses which have the greatest potential value to others are his ideas. Thus, Cooper and Lorenz were partially right. Those who have goals such as financial success and think they can be attained by some method which does not involve the mind are indeed hallucinating addicts. Also implied in the comment that dreams of financial success are opiate-like is the judgment that such goals are improper, or sinful, for men to be pursuing. Both my disagreement with this judgment and with the idea that men should place faith above reason are rooted in the following comments about the nature of God. I am assuming in these comments that Cooper and Lorenz would agree that for God to be worth following, He would have to be benevolent. First, no benevolent God would create a race of creatures, give them the ability to achieve virtually limitless levels of wealth and comfort, and then order them to abstain, to suffer out 60 or 70 years at a meager subsistence. Second, no benevolent God would create a race of creatures, give them the ability to reason as their only means of survival, and then command that they abandon it, which means ordering them to abandon life. Hill is a senior economics major from Fairview, Pennsylvania.

---

Note: The text about Nicaragua and the Reagan Administration appears to be unrelated to the main content and seems to be an insertion error. If it is part of the original text, please let me know, and I will include it accordingly.