Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Concert Choir Will Perform Brahms

The Davidson Concert Choir will perform a Brahms Sesquicentennial Program at 9 p.m. during this Sunday’s Vesper Concert in Hodson
Hall. The Choir, under the direction of Vladimir Morosan, will perform the motet Opus 29, No. 2, and three other
Brahms works—“All’ meine Herzgedanken”; “Abendständchen,” Opus 42, No. 1; and “Nachtwache I.” Tenor Richard Kennedy and pianist Joel Harrison will
be featured in four songs by Brahms, and the Sonata in E-flat, Opus 120, No. 2 will be performed by
James Ogibene, clarinet, and James G. Swisher, piano.

School Will Study Students’ Adjustment

The Department Chairman, School Director, and College Advisor of the North Carolina School of Science and Math (NCSSM) are coming
to Davidson to study their students’ adjustment to academic life in college. The day’s activities will include conversations with faculty
advisors, administrators, and hall counselors. The students from NCSSM currently enrolled at Davidson, who are all now freshmen, are: Lee
Bulwinkle, Julia Danek, Susan Herbert, Roger Kromer, Robert Lee, Shelley Lineberger, and Arthur Norville.

Note

Gill Holland has been elected to the fifth position on the Faculty Advisory Committee for the presidential search.

$2500 in thefts reported during January

By DUNCAN FRASER ’86

Fourteen students and one faculty member have been victims of on-campus thefts totaling about $2500 since the beginning of February.
According to Sgt. Henry Cook of the Campus Security, the string of thefts began on 1 February when the Athletic
Department reported the theft of a Swiss time clock valued at $175. The following day Roy Martin reported the theft
of his 1982 12-speed green Schwinn bicycle, valued at $380. On 3 February, Director of the Riding Program Nancy Hoffman
reported the theft of $600 in camera equipment from her car parked in Jackson Court. The most expensive theft occurred
on 4 February when Kevin Attar’s 1979 Camaro was stripped of $800 in stereo equipment, tape cassettes, a Texas Instrument
Calculator, a pool stick and case, and a briefcase. Three students’ wallets were stolen from the track locker room on
5 February. Manning McGraw lost $10; James Wilson, $14; and Nick Donovan his wallet. Donovan’s wallet, which contained no money
when it was stolen, was later recovered in a gym commode. Sunday, 6 February, John Mahoney reported the theft of
his wallet and $8 from his dorm room. On Monday, Kathy Gingrich reported the theft of $417 in clothes, camera
equipment, and other personal items from her locked car. The same day, Matthew Walker reported $8 and his wallet missing
from his dorm room. Four thefts occurred this past Tuesday when Cheryl Soderstrom, Lauren Van Metre, and Suzanne Gilmore reported
thefts of clothes from their room totaling $60, $15, and $41, respectively.

Philosophy and Religion Departments Will Change

By DAN VOORHIS ’84

There will be one retirement from the Religion and Philosophy departments, and several professors are returning from sabbatical. Chairman of
the Religion Department Daniel Rhodes will retire at the end of this year but will stay on to teach one
course next year. Rhodes, 65, came to Davidson in 1960. His wife will retire from teaching at North Mecklenburg High
School at the end of next year. “We are looking forward to this as a new experience,” said Rhodes, “we
plan to take a long-delayed trip to England, and perhaps to France and Greece.” He also plans to do some
writing. Professor Samuel Maloney will go on sabbatical in the spring next year and The

---Davidson ROTC Department is now offering new two- and three-year academic scholarships. Both scholarships provide for full tuition, related academic
fees, textbooks, and a $100 monthly living allowance. Individual scholarship value will be approximately $6,900 for the school year 1983-84.
Current sophomores may compete for Two-Year Scholarships and freshmen for Three-Year awards. Application deadlines are February 21 and April 4
respectively. According to Assistant Professor of Military Science Captain Albert Power, 40 percent of the scholarships are reserved for outstanding
students and campus leaders not currently enrolled in ROTC training.

The most recent theft occurred Wednesday when Nick Lowther reported the loss of $30 in cash and his wallet from
the gym. Sgt. Cook would not speculate whether the individuals involved in the thefts were a part of the college
community. However, he did have advice for the College concerning the increase in thefts. “Students need to begin locking up
their possessions — dorm rooms, cars, bikes, gym lockers. Just locking up could save many students from being robbed.” When
asked about the perception among students that the Honor Code allows doors to remain unlocked, Cook replied, “The Honor Code
is good only for those who believe in it.” Apparently, those involved in these robberies, whether on or off campus,
do not.

Students to use ICES this term
By JEFF MANN ’84

The Faculty voted last week to drop the ICES numerical evaluation forms in favor of a prose format for student
evaluation of professors. However, Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann announced this
week that the forms have already arrived and a new form will not be used for courses this term. Zimmermann
said that professors may use the ICES forms if they would like this term but are not obligated to release
the data to the Dean. There will be no other official evaluation form.

Last night, the SGA approved a resolution from The Davidsonian condemning the Faculty’s decision to drop the ICES forms in
favor of prose forms without prior student input, and called for students to include numerical ratings of the course content,
course in general, and the instructor on a scale of one to ten in any prose evaluations. These questions mirror
the global questions on the ICES forms. The resolution also encourages students to indicate whether they agree with the Faculty
decision to drop the ICES forms in the comments section.

In a second resolution, the SGA decided to make numerical evaluation forms with the above questions available to students on
the last day of classes this term. These forms will have a space to indicate whether the student filled out
a form in class to avoid double-weighting of students’ opinions. These forms will be provided to Dean Zimmermann.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 February 1983
