Warren Wilson Falls Prey to Women
By KARA GILMORE ’85

The Lady Wildcats clawed their way closer and closer to a victory this week until they finally found suitable prey in Warren Wilson at home Tuesday night.

The hunt began last Thursday night in Hartsville, S.C. where the women took on Coker College. The result of a hard-fought, knock-down, drag-out battle was the short end of a 44-39 score. Coach Dee Mayes was not quite satisfied with the officiating. “I’m not blaming the loss on the officials; both teams had to put up with them—but that was definitely the most physical game I’ve ever seen as a coach. It seemed to hurt us more than them, because they were fouling on a lot of our inside shots but not getting called for it,” Mayes said.

The turning point came when Davidson was up by six points late in the game. “They put on a full-court press,” Mayes explained. “We turned the ball over the first three times up the floor against it, and they scored each time. It was a new game then and they were on a roll.” The Lady Cats played even-up with the hosts for much of the game’s remainder, but down the stretch a few Coker shots fell and a few Davidson shots didn’t. “I feel confident, though, that we'll beat them when we play them here,” Mayes added. Mike Frankhouser led the way with 15 points and 15 rebounds.

Saturday night the hunt continued in Spartanburg, S.C. against Wofford College. The Lady Cats came even closer to snaring their prey as they lost by a scant two points, 65-63. The Lady Terriers are a predominantly perimeter-shooting team. They aren’t weak inside, however, with one big player Mayes “didn’t feel was a threat.”

“We played all right in the first half,” Mayes explained, “but we weren’t concentrating well and we weren’t as aggressive as in the past few games. We were playing hard but not as hard as we could. We talked about it at half time and came out ready for the second half.” The talk didn’t appear to help, as the Cats soon fell 14 points behind, but the defense solidified, and Davidson shots started falling. The locker room talk came to fruition as an altered play designed to get the ball inside the Terrier man-to-man defense to Frankhouser took effect and she started scoring. When Frankhouser wasn’t scoring inside, someone else was scoring outside. Eventually the combined effectiveness of Davidson’s offense and defense brought the game to a tie, and at that point the Terriers shifted into a tight zone to keep the ball from Frankhouser inside. The Lady Cat defense couldn’t quite hold off the Wofford sharpshooters, so the game came down to the final seconds. “We had ample opportunities to win in the last five minutes, but we just kept missing easy lay-up shots, then even getting our own rebounds and missing again,” Mayes said. Frankhouser led the team with 22 points and 11 rebounds. Marie Cefalo and Mitzi Short each added 11 points, and Jeanne Womack pulled in 15 rebounds.

The hunt finally came to an end Tuesday night in Johnston Gym, where the prowling Cats found suitable prey in the Owls of Warren Wilson. Davidson started off quickly, jumping to a 6-0 lead and stretching the margin to 11 by halftime, 31-20. Freshman guard Amy Hartman sparked scoring in the first half with 10 points. The Lady Cats went for the kill in the second half. They never led by fewer than 10 points, and coasted to a runaway 65-45 victory. Coach Mayes said simply, “It was nice to win. Everybody got in and did a really nice job.” Frankhouser led the attack with 17 points and 18 rebounds, and Amy Hartman finished with 12 points.

Frankhouser has been consistently superb, and has been the key to Davidson’s seventh place ranking among the league’s 16 teams. Frankhouser is among league leaders in both scoring and rebounding. Frankhouser was nominated for Player of the Week last week, but did not win the honor. Fortunately for Mayes, Frankhouser has not been the only star for the team. Mayes points out, “In recent games more kids are seeing playing time and are responding well. Whoever I put in is doing a good job.”

Wildcats Drop Two Costly Games
By STEVE SOUD ’84

Two valiant comebacks fell short as the Wildcats dropped two important games to the Tennessee contingent of the Southern Conference. Last Saturday Davidson battled from a 16-point UT-Chattanooga lead to go ahead by two, only to lose by eight, 71-63. The first half was a near disaster as the Wildcats, sticking withtheir 3-2 zone defense, were outscored 40-26. Frankly, there wasn’t much good for Davidson to say about the first half. The second half, however, afforded much to talk about. Bobby Hussey and Co. abandoned the ineffective zone and went with a stifling man-to-man defense. The team itself claims it plays better when it’s playing man-to-man, and Moccasin Coach Murray Arnold, whose team was miffed by the sudden onslaught, might be inclined to agree. “I never thought they could play us man-to-man,” Arnold admitted, “and obviously, neither did our players.”

In the next ten minutes, Davidson outscored the dumbfounded Moccasins 26-12 to tie the game. Kenny Wilson (23 pts., 6 rebounds) made it 28-12 when he tapped home his own miss, and, much to the astonishment of 8,000 spectators, the Wildcats led 54-52. That’s when Willie White, the SC MVP as a sophomore last year, took matters into his own hands. White (22 pts.), who is NBA-bound luggage if the SC ever sent any, hit an 18-footer to put Chattanooga ahead for good, 58-56, with six minutes to go. He widened the lead to 61-56 with a three-pointer just half a minute later. Kenny Wilson matched White down the stretch, to pull Davidson back through, 63-60. Then, with 1:31 left and KW again attempting to bull his way through the lane, he walked—or was he pushed?—and UT-C took over the ball with a 65-60 lead. The Wildcats had to resort to fouling at that point, and from there on it was academic, as the Mocs went on to win.

Monday night, 1800 Johnston Gym fans saw the same sort of rally again fall prey to poor first-half play. The Buccaneers of East Tennessee State came away 67-66 winners. Cliff Tribus opened the game with the first of his 12 field goals, and by the 14:02 mark Davidson had built on that lead to go ahead 15-10, thanks in part to a sensational Brian Rowan dunk and subsequent free throw. With 10:11 left, the lead swelled to 21-12 after Rowan hooped one over ETSU’s Winfred King (14 pts., 13 rebounds). Davidson’s surge came apart at the seams, however, aided by the entry of East Tennessee’s Troy Lee Mikell. Mikell hadn’t played in either of the Buccaneers’ last two games, forced out by injury. From the time of his entry to the end of the half, East Tennessee outscored Davidson, 22-8. Mikell (6-0) was unstoppable, hitting over 6-10 Tribus, hitting while double-teamed, and hitting when open. In ten minutes of play, he scored 14 points.

Davidson’s chief problem in that ten-minute span was not getting the open shot but rather making it. Tribus and Kenny Wilson put up an air ball each, and by the time the final tally was taken for the half, the Cats shot a sniveling 13-39 from the floor. East Tennessee led, 36-29. The Bucs appeared to have a firm grip on the lead as they built it 49-39 with 12:05 left. Then the much-heralded freshmen, put in as spark plugs for the team, took over and did just as planned. A lineup of John Carroll at point, Pepper Bego at the two spot, Gerry Born at KW’s three spot, Tribus at the other forward, and Jim McConkey at Brian Rowan’s center position did the trick: They cut the Buccaneer lead, which reached a 55-44 high water mark with 9:22 remaining, back down to 55-48 with 7:48 remaining.

From that point, a flurry of Buc turnovers (East Tennessee had 17 turnovers to Davidson’s 4) enabled Davidson to tie, 55-55, with 5:24 remaining. Carroll was clutch on the free throw line down the stretch, as he hit 5 of 6 one-and-one attempts to keep the Cats within one, 64-65, with 1:08 remaining. With :46 remaining, Carroll sent Sonny Vinson to the line for the one-and-one, and the Buc forward bricked the front end. Tribus rebounded, and on the other end of the court, he gave Davidson its first lead, 66-65, since the first half with a 12-foot pull-up jumper. The Bucs called time out with :17 remaining, and after the inbounds, Mikell took the ball directly to the hoop to give East Tennessee a 67-66 lead with :10 remaining. Tribus called a Davidson time out, and the Wildcats plotted to pull the game out as they had done so many times before. Richard Wilson successfully inbounded the ball to Carroll, but as he crossed the time line, Wildcat signals got crossed and in the ensuing mix-up Davidson had by far the most costly of its four turnovers. A heartbroken crowd slowly filed out the gym, 67-66 losers.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/21 January 1983.