10 Friday, April 15, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Brett Logan’s Jungle
By STEWART CAULEY

"My goal in life is to be a painter; this is the central fact around which I organize my life.
It is the sum to which all my experiences, academic and otherwise, are added, both directly, through painting and my
association with teachers and other artists, and indirectly, through my experience of life and struggle."

Brett Logan paints best between 11 p.m. and 2 a.m. Since coming to Davidson four years ago from Blair Academy
in New Jersey, he has painted, drawn, and printed better than four hours a day, every day, through exams, parties,
spring breaks, and summers. His single in Belk is an art warehouse with a bed. Dozens of paintings and drawings
litter the room, a row of art books line the top shelf, and a map of South America hangs on
the wall. He is usually not in. More often than not he is in the studio.

Relief to Brett’s crowded room is on the way. His senior art show opens on April 27 and lasts until
May 11. It will be hung in Cunningham Fine Arts Building and everyone is invited to the opening on the
afternoon of the 27th. It will exhibit, in roughly equal quantity, Brett’s paintings, prints, and drawings — the culmination of
four years of intensive work. This is not his first show. He has shown at many group shows in North
and South Carolina over the past four years. Last year he won third prize at the Davidson student show, and
recently he was included in a group show at Robert Havens gallery in Charlotte.

Do not be surprised when you first walk in the show. The works are not photo reproductions of various facades
of Chambers. They are, for the most part, abstract. Worth more than a glance, the works in the show reflect
an unusually curious and committed artist.

Brett came to Davidson as a biology major but changed to art after a class with Herb Jackson. He has
“experimented” with painting as long as he can remember, but claims becoming a major did not just make him an
artist. “In a sense I’m deciding [about being an artist] every moment,” says Brett. “When I was twelve I wanted
to paint just the way everything looked. I think I really wanted to be a race car driver or an
astronaut. I wanted to paint things exactly the way they looked and found out quickly that it was impossible. That
was the first time I realized that you couldn’t create reality but you could create a reality.”

A great deal of Brett’s reality has been the jungle. It surfaces in his thoughts about how he lives and
paints. After his senior year at Blair Academy, Brett went to Brazil to satisfy a deep curiosity in the jungle.
In Juiz de Fora, several hundred miles north of Rio de Janeiro, Brett lived with a Frenchman and worked in
a syringe factory. “I took advantage of the location as much as I could with the small supply of paint
I had with me. After a few weeks I went further north to explore Manaus. The reality of the jungle
shocked me. It was dark and perpetually wet, and the vegetation near the ground was uninviting, being either too thorny
or too infected with fungus to explore. Even the huge anaconda being carried by five natives on a raft seemed
somewhat unimpressive in context with the oppressive, steamy environment.”

What Brett saw in Brazil has to have an effect on his painting. Although he no longer paints...“Jungle scenes” in
the style of Rousseau, many of his works can still in spirit be considered tiny slices of jungle. Like looking
at a jungle through a microscope, Bret’s works are no longer realistic. They are abstract studies in color and form,
conveying moods and impressions. “Painting is, for me, a complete end in itself,” says Bret. “However, the jungle, as a
whole, is a paradigm of the kind of life and perfect balance that exists in painting.”

At Davidson, Bret has studied closely with both Herb Jackson and Russ Warren. Warren says Bret is “certainly one of
the brightest majors. His ability to understand others’ art at a deep level is impressive. I think he developed that
when he was growing up. The only influence I had on him was, I hope, discipline. He’s completely interested in
art and that separates him from other majors... I see him as a bit of a loner. That helps. The
nitty-gritty of art is not social. And he’s taller. That gives him a different perspective. He wears a good pair
of shades; they help too.”

Jackson also speaks highly of Bret. “He is a very serious artist and that’s important. We can expect him to
grow and make a real contribution to art. An art major is a strange bird in that he is expected
to do things without class credit. Bret is different [from most majors] in that he has made the commitment to
make art his living.”

Bret’s work shows the influence of close associations with Warren and Jackson. Camille Howell, in The Charlotte Observer, wrote, “Logan’s
work is heavily influenced by Herb Jackson — he translates Jackson’s layered style into pastel tints.” But to equate Bret’s
work with simple studies of Warren’s or Jackson’s painting is to go too far. His unique style of applying thin
watered-down paint with a palette knife allows him to concentrate on color. His favorite artists are Morris Louis, Jan Vermeer,
and Monet, but he often enjoys the colors in random grocery store displays more than museum shows. His inspirations for
painting range widely; from Frank Zappa to "Cutting Through Spiritual Materialism" by Chögyam Trungpa.

“Art should never be separate from the rest of education. A liberal arts school is imperative,” he says. “To transcend
mediocre art you really have to ask questions beyond the immediate realm of art to questions that are essentially philosophical,
and personal in nature. There are a lot of artists who take art as separate from life. I think those
artists compromise. They play an intellectual game with little expression. Art removed from life is just a game. I mean
for my painting to be central to my life.”

Bret’s being lies very much in his paintings. The works to be hung in Cunningham are not wood, acrylics, and
canvas but jungles, grocery stores, teachers, books, and philosophy. They are there, like people, to communicate back and forth with
the viewer. Each is a unique character. In "A Biography of a Painting," Ben Shahn, talking about all painting, perhaps
describes best the role of Bret’s works. “Painting is by no means a limited medium, neither limited to idea alone
nor to paint alone... painting is able to contain whatever one thinks and all that he is. Painting may reflect
the limitations of the artist. It is the wholeness of thinking and feeling within an individual; it is partly his
time and place; it is partly his childhood or even his adult fears and pleasures, and it is very greatly
thinking about what he wants to think.”
