The Davidsonian / Friday, April 15, 1983

Elizabeth Kiss

The Davidson chapter of Amnesty International appreciated Keith Revell’s thoughtful editorial “Amnesty International: Moral Imperialism?” in last week’s Davidsonian. We
were pleased that our presence on campus this year has prompted someone to consider the human rights issue in depth.
Constant questioning is required to keep a group like AI alive and intellectually honest. We welcome the opportunity to defend
our “integrity” and to clarify AI’s character and philosophy.

Revell’s concerns about AI center on two issues. First, he objects to the notion of human rights on the grounds
that it lacks philosophical justification. How can one prove that all human beings have certain minimum rights which no government
can violate — the right not to be tortured, for example? As a counter-example, Revell brings up the classical utilitarian
position which identifies overall social utility as the greatest good. On his position, individuals have no inviolable rights; if torture
contributes to the common good, it is justified.

Revell’s second objection is that human rights are products of a particular culture and ideology, and hence advocacy of human
rights on a worldwide scale is “ideological imperialism.” Revell speculates that in order for human rights to “work” in another
culture such as Cambodia, it might be necessary “to import the United States — technology, social structure, political system,” into
Cambodia.

I will respond to the second objection first. The charge that AI’s work constitutes “ideological” or “cultural” imperialism (from the
West, particularly the U.S.A.) is false on three counts. First, AI’s membership is cross-cultural. Second, AI’s role is not to
force unfamiliar notions of human rights on other countries but to encourage them to comply with international human rights agreements
which they have willingly signed. Third, in the context of a world where military and economic force is used daily
for “imperialistic” purposes, AI’s work as a political organization wielding only the power of public opinion hardly deserves the harsh
label of imperialism.

AI has national sections in 41 countries. These include many non-Western countries, such as Bangladesh, Ghana, Korea, and Nigeria to
name a few. Fifteen more countries, including Chile and the USSR, have Amnesty groups and there are active AI members
in 154 countries. With 13,000 members, the U.S. section comprises a tiny minority within AI’s membership of 325,000. Covering the
cultural and political spectrum, AI members have differing visions of the ideal society, but they all agree on the primacy
of human rights.

In addition to having an international membership, AI bases its position on international agreements. The AI Statute states that the
organization’s object “shall be to secure throughout the world the observance of the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights.” This declaration, along with the more detailed International Covenants on Civil and Political Rights, guarantees basic human rights to
all citizens. Most countries have signed these documents and incorporated their guarantees into their national constitutions. In most cases, then,
AI is simply holding governments to their public promises.

AI has no armies, no political affiliations, no corporate clout. It does not advocate the overthrow of oppressive regimes, and
takes no sides in revolutionary disputes. It knows that every government, whatever the ideology, creed, or the skin color of
its officials, is capable of mistreating its citizens. Like Revell in his essay, AI members simply express their opinions as
private citizens. Cumulatively these opinions may have some effectiveness. But compared to the arsenal of military and economic strength that
the world’s governments have at their disposal, AI’s network of small groups armed with pen and paper seems puny indeed.

AI’s carefully maintained cultural and political impartiality accounts for its credibility as a human rights organization. But this skirts Revell’s
other question of whether human rights advocacy is justified at all. Who gives us human rights? Rights do not exist
“out there” in any objective sense: we create them and our consensus makes them real. Our reasons for creating rights
generally include a recognition that the world is populated by sentient and rational individuals who feel, and think, and dream,
and love, and plan. So we decide that human institutions should not treat such beings in certain ways. For example,
we decide it is wrong for any institution to...Systematically and deliberately inflict pain on people, or we decide it is
wrong to imprison and kill people simply because they disagree with the prevailing ideology. AI contends that a government which
does not have to resort to inflicting terror and violence on peaceful citizens in order to stay in power is
a healthy government. Revell objects that one can just as easily postulate the common good as the ultimate moral value.
Then, by equating the common good with national security, it becomes justifiable to do whatever maintenance of national security requires.
Presumably, this includes detaining and executing dissenters and torturing indiscriminately to deter prospective dissenters (both of which are common practices
today). Equating national security with the common good calls for a considerable leap of assumptions. Whose good is being measured?
National security, in the common sense of preservation of the status quo, is most often in the interests of those
in power, and the interests of the powerful do not necessarily coincide with the common good. Even a revolution supported
by the majority threatens national security. Revell shifts from a utilitarian idea of the greatest common good to the supposition
that might makes right. True, one might argue that both of these can constitute coherent moral systems, just as a
system based on human rights can. This should not prevent us from comparing them, and advocating one or the other.

Revell uses the incarceration of Japanese Americans during World War II as an example of sound utilitarian practice. While incarceration
violated the Japanese’s rights, Revell says it was “supposedly justified.” The example is disastrous. Most analysts agree that the concern
for national security was excessive; by abiding by human rights considerations, the U.S. could have avoided great human cost. Moreover,
if World War II was truly a just war fought for moral values, the incarceration of Japanese considerably tarnishes the
U.S.A.’s ability to claim moral victory.

Revell also argues that once security is firmly established through oppressive measures, a government can “begin to consider” human rights.
The historical record shows that this rarely happens. Power easily shifts from a want to a need, and forced stability
tends to be a very unstable phenomenon, so that increasingly oppressive measures are required. The U.S.S.R., for example, still claims
to be moving toward end-stage communism with its dissolution of the oppressive state apparatus, although progress is difficult to discern.

AI holds that respect for human rights is not an afterthought, a sociopolitical icing on the cake which is nice
to have after other battles have been fought. Respect for human rights is a prerequisite for the development of a
just, humane society. Revell may disagree. But if he does, he cannot appeal to claims that AI practices ideological imperialism.
Like Revell, AI is fighting a battle for the allegiance of people’s hearts and minds. But AI “fights” without recourse
to coercive measures beyond simple persuasion. In all fairness, Revell cannot conscientiously object to AI by riding the fence as
he appears to do. Pointing out the presence of alternatives is not a forceful argument against taking a certain stand.
It is much more forceful to take an opposing stand—although I am not sure Revell would like the company in
which he would find himself.

Finally, I take strong issue with Revell’s statement that concern for human rights arises from “circumstantially dependent values.” Aesthetics and
religion change from culture to culture. Pain and fear do not. The pain of beating and electric shock, the fear
of permanent disfigurement, of the consequences of speaking one's mind, of abduction in the night, of the death or torture
of loved ones—these are universal. I submit that recognition of the facts of others’ suffering ought to be a part
of our education. Otherwise, we risk becoming intellectual adults and emotional cripples. There is a strong tendency to hold the
view that understanding a problem requires severing its emotional content. This supposedly permits intellectual “clarity.” Abstracting the problem of oppression
from its emotional content prevents a true understanding of the problem. AI’s approach to oppression is to unify emotional empathy
with intellectual commitment, and translate both into action.

Kiss is a senior philosophy major from Alexandria, Va. She was assisted by Jeff Herrin, Pete Jones, Hunter Monroe, and
James Rozzelle.
