The Davidsonian / Friday, October 7, 1983

Liberal Arts Education Stressed

Symposium Lends Insight Into Career Decisions

By WAYNE MAGRUDER

Davidson College welcomed professionals from the career world to participate in the Career Symposium Oct. 3-5. They were here to
lend the students insight into the “how’s and why’s” of deciding upon a career, taking steps toward securing it, and
what realities there are to face in the process of such decision making. The North Carolina Fellows and the SGA
sponsored the symposium, with help from the Pre-Management Committee. These worked in coordination with the Communications Office, the Careers Office,
and the Dean of Students’ Office.

Luncheons each day focused on a general topic of the career world. Monday’s topic was entitled “The Value of a
Liberal Arts Education.” David Waddill '81 and Huldah Carlton '81 spoke about the Davidson education in light of their successful
careers in banking. Waddill works with First Union Bank in Charlotte, and Carlton is with Chase Manhattan Bank in New
York City. Both stressed the advantages of a liberal arts education in training them to think analytically and objectively regardless
of the particular field. Equally important for them was taking advantage of summer internships to gain contacts and experience. “Take
your liberal arts education and combine it with some work or intern in between academic years,” Carlton said. Davidson students
are particularly lucky.

College To Compensate Thefts

By TED WILSON

Recent campus thefts have prompted questions concerning the College’s responsibility for such crimes. “The College is not responsible for the
personal possessions of students,” according to College Business Manager Bob Currie. Therefore, the students who have had items stolen this
fall “will not be compensated by the College.” However, Currie explained, “sometimes parents have a homeowners insurance policy that will
reimburse the student” after the policyholder covers the $50 deductible. He said that there usually is an upper limit on
the amount the insurance company will reimburse the policyholder.

Though the College does not assume responsibility for stolen items, Currie said that “if the College is negligent it would
consider the particular case” and determine if compensation is appropriate. Currie said that “extenuating circumstances” may cause the College to
look at the case more closely. For example, two summers ago, when Belk Dorm was undergoing renovation, some students had
items stolen from storage. Currie said that “six of the eight Belk residents who filed reports and claims will be
reimbursed for the amount that the insurance company didn’t cover.” Currie said that “though the College has not made a
decision about reimbursing the other two students, checks have been issued this week to the six individuals.” According to Currie,
“there is no theft coverage for break-ins in the College dorms, but that homeowner insurance policies would probably cover it.”
He said that “storage during the summer is at the student’s own risk.”

According to Currie, the recent thefts have brought up the question “Does the College have some responsibility for the thefts?”
Though Currie did not list concrete examples of when the College may be at fault, he said, “When the College
thinks there has been an error on the part of the administration, the College may assume responsibility for thefts.”

LOOKING FOR A PLACE TO TAKE AIR FORCE ROTC? LOOK HERE:

Contact Capt. Paul Chambers at UNCC, Calvard 3059 (704) 597-4537

Not all colleges and universities in the United States have Air Force ROTC programs. And we recognize that many people
want to enter the two or four-year program and are looking for a school where they can take it. Call
or visit one of the AFROTC detachments listed above and ask about the “Crosstown” program. Here are some more facts
that may be of interest:

- Courses are open to college men and women.
- Full scholarships are available that pay tuition, books, and lab and incidental fees, plus $100 a month during the
school year.
- You work toward an Air Force commission upon graduation.
- You have an opportunity to serve your country as an Air Force officer.
- You don’t have to be enrolled in these schools to attend the AFROTC program there.it out right away. You'll
find a brand new kind of opportunity. One workshop featured public relations because, as Carlton put it, “Davidson is totally
devoted to you.” Waddill added that Davidson alumni already in the professional world are especially attentive to career opportunities for
new graduates.

On Tuesday, Carol Willingham '77, a stockbroker, spoke on “Women in the Working World.” She addressed certain areas of difficulty
for working women such as keeping a balance between family and career, her husband's attitude toward her career, and some
of the surprising misunderstandings men have about professional women. Willingham stressed the importance of confidence in the face of discrimination
which still exists to a large degree.

Peggy Pierotti

Wednesday’s luncheon featured David McClintock '70 and Sherburne Laughlin '83, in a mock job interview. Playing the recruiter, McClintock asked
Laughlin a series of questions involving her transition from high school to college, what electives she had taken during her
college career, how she balanced her time and activities, and what contributions she had made at Davidson. After the mock
interview, McClintock and Laughlin fielded questions about the process of interviews. They stressed the importance of “representing yourself candidly and
in a positive light,” McClintock said. Candidates should carry a full knowledge of the company to the interview.

Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons and evenings were devoted to 24 different workshops which focused upon specific careers including anything from
the arts to banking. Professionals of various fields led these discussions, sharing their personal experiences and pointing out pros and
cons about their jobs. Of special interest to Davidson students was the consensus among these leaders that a liberal arts
education is a solid start for a fulfilling career. The ability to reason rationally and objectively is what employers from
all fields are looking for — not just grade point averages or technical skills.

Dorms, Houses To Get Cable TV
By DAVID VAN PELT

The Housing Office plans to install cable television soon in dorms and Patterson Court houses, according to Housing Director Bill
Bolding. The venture will provide all dormitory lounge televisions with the most basic cable package available, which will contain mostly
channels from Greensboro and Atlanta. No movie or special channels will be included. The plan calls for Patterson Court houses
as well as dorms to receive cable reception, but questions remain as to the specific stations that they will receive.

Bolding hoped to have cable TV installed before the school year began, but the difficulty arose, he said, in contacting
Charlotte-based Lake Side Cable Co. to install the equipment. Bolding said the cable attachment should “not be very expensive.” He
estimated the monthly charge at $4 to $6 per unit. Such a fee would be within the current Housing Department
budget and would not call for larger payments from students. He added that Patterson Court houses may be asked to
contribute a small sum to help defray the cost, but the details of that arrangement have yet to be resolved.

Bolding said that he has been pushing for cable television since it became available to the Davidson area last year,
partly because of the poor reception in this area. The Physical Plant will oversee installing the underground apparatus connecting the
sets to the existing cable and may contribute labor to the operation, but it is not actively involved in the
plan, according to Director Grover Meetze. “No project has been set up,” he said.

Patterson Court representatives seem to prefer a more extensive package than the one allotted for the dorms. “I suspect that
the houses would want other channels,” said Patterson Court Committee President Rob Spaugh. The plan might require house members to
pay a small fee to compensate the Housing Office, but Spaugh said that the cost for an expanded number of
channels would be inexpensive, possibly $25 a month. Spaugh hopes to meet with Bill Bolding and Phillip Cashion of the
Physical Plant this week to discuss these issues. House members appear enthusiastic about the possibility of cable TV, and willing
to pay for added programming. “I think it’s worth the extra cost,” said SAE member Jamie Kaiser, “I wish they'd
done it a long time ago.”
