Wednesday, December 14, 1983 / The Davidsonian 5

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Home Brew: More Liquor For Less Money

By IDA PHILLIPS

The next time you fork out three dollars for a six-pack of Bud, you should feel guilty. Not because you are contributing to the deterioration of your brain, but because you could be enjoying 52 beers for only eight dollars. Home beermaking is the newest pastime brewing, for it yields a lot of suds for a little money.

Junior Jeff Carter is one of several students creating home brew. Carter swears that the best beer he ever swilled was homemade. It must have made a lasting impression on his taste buds, for he began researching beer making soon after that first taste. Carter claims “the hardest part of making my own beer was finding the place to buy the stuff.” The place turned out to be Alternative Beverages, a Charlotte store in the Mini Mart tradition. Here Carter was instructed in the art of making beer and supplied with the “stuff.”

Creating your own beer requires only a few items. The essential ingredients include hopped malt extract, sugar, yeast, and water. The basic recipe for creating homemade suds is simple and involves about three hours of labor. First, boil all the ingredients except yeast in a large pot. After transferring this “wort” to a primary fermentor, add the yeast. Put this mixture into the main fermentor (Carter uses a small-lidded trash can) which is equipped with a fermentation lock. This device allows air to escape the fermentor but allows none to enter the container. After about ten days, siphon the beer into bottles, cap them, and leave them unopened for a month or as long as you can hold out.

Although these directions are simple, certain errors can ruin the product. “The first batch you make will probably be terrible, because it really involves trial and error,” Carter said. He stresses the cleanliness needed in brewing beer, because “that is the easiest way to screw up the beer,” he said. To keep the beer germ-free, the bottles should be sterilized in bleach before use. Carter also warns against putting too much sugar in the bottles, which could cause them to explode.

Supposing the directions are carefully followed, what does the product taste like? Carter describes his first batch as tasting like “something between beer and wine.” One of the advantages to home brewing is that you can make beer according to your own tastes. Carter is taken with the fact that “you can make beer you can’t buy in a store” because recipes are available for every type of beer. One note about taste: homemade beer usually has a higher alcohol content than commercial beer. Most beers sold in stores are three to four percent alcohol by volume, whereas homemade beer can be made with up to 10 percent alcohol by volume.

Carter believes that home-brewed beer can make a difference in one’s drinking habits. “If you drink a lot of homemade beer you get really used to it. So when you go to one of the parties around here the beer tastes really watery.” He also noted that “when you can have 50 bottles for $7 it’s hard to go to the store and buy six bottles for $3.” The advantages to homebeermaking have given Carter renewed appreciation of the beverage. He considers beermaking to be a beneficial hobby. “You get to drink the fruits of your labor. I plan to keep making beer continually until graduation because once you perfect it, you can’t beat it.”

—Films By MATT MORRIS

Rear Window (1954)
Produced and directed by Alfred Hitchcock. Starring Jimmy Stewart, Grace Kelly, Thelma Ritter, and big bad Raymond Burr. Rating **** (of course). Go out of your way to see Rear Window playing at SouthPark. This Alfred Hitchcock masterpiece is alternately the master’s most cinematic and surprisingly compassionate film. Coming from a director such as Hitchcock, a film unraveling with boom shots, process screens, geometric space, and humanity is a tall order.

Rear Window reveals Hitchcock’s brilliance and, of course, the affectionately violent wife killer. Yet these aren't just movie characters Hitchcock reveals. They are real, human beings, and because the audience watches the goings-on, it too has a “room with a view,” a place to examine itself.

At the outset, no one in the film understands the others — each character is locked in a mental room of his emotions. The real drama is not whether the bad guy will be apprehended, but whether anyone will be able to communicate, make the connection between rooms, buildings, and — ultimately... lives.

A typically brilliant Hitchcock film (North by Northwest, for example) exhilarates and exhausts the viewer with its mathematic progression; the film is calculated to entertain, and it does. Hitchcock knew all the tricks in the book — when pressed against a wall, he could still play with his camera and dazzle the objective mind. And sure enough, with Rear Window, the techniques are all there, placed securely in a spicy Hitchcockian plot.

Jimmy Stewart and his high society girlfriend (Grace Kelly) witness a murder in a building across from his apartment, while gazing at various eccentricities of 1954 (and 1983 as well) America through his camera. The key to remember here is that because Stewart’s leg is broken, he must lie in a single room all day (and throughout the entire film). In the hands of another director, a one-room movie would be strictly dullsville (to wit, Das Boot).

But, as said before, Hitchcock knew all the tricks. Sure it’s voyeuristic — Hitchcock even admitted that through Rear Window he fulfilled a personal fantasy, but a soul starts growing as the movie unreels. The people Stewart uses his Canon to watch (revealed to us through zap-me camera angles) are each touching comments on humanity. There’s a Miss Lonelyhearts; a Miss “Torso” (draw your own conclusion); a childless couple who pour all their affection on a dog; a violently affectionate newlywed — loneliness to be legal. And in the end, that’s what Rear Window is about — you and me.

The film ends on an apparently happy note, but Hitchcock has made his point, and it won’t go away, no matter how many “I love you’s” go by: can man be alone with his irrationality, his feelings, his loves? Jimmy Stewart says during the film, “I wonder if it’s moral for me to watch people doing the private, crazy things they do.” More importantly, Hitchcock wonders if it’s moral for us.