The Davidsonian / Friday, September 23, 1983

OPINIONS

Sighted Blindness
Mike Stephens

Once upon a time, back in high school Biology in the middle of my ninth grade year, my class had
a substitute teacher named Ms. Hayes. As Biology is usually regarded as one of the more concrete sciences, a substitute
teacher is most of the time not interesting. Ms. Hayes was the exception. She took a very dim view of
modern science. With all of the determination and self-confidence she possessed, she told our class that she disagreed with our
book on one small point. She didn’t believe in the existence of micro-organisms. Not only did she dispute the existence
of microbes, but also the existence of atoms. She told our class that she, in fact, did not believe in
anything that she could not see with the naked eye. Her justification for her beliefs was quite simple. Why would
something exist that could not be seen? If the human eye could not perceive something, then what possibly could it
be? It was sheer ignorance that caused people to believe that a germ could cause a disease. You got sick
because you got sick. It’s that simple. “As for atoms,” she stated, “don’t be ridiculous. Wood is made of wood
and stone of stone. How can something that makes stone also make wood? Sheer poppycock!” The rationale for this lay
in the fact that wood floats and stone doesn’t, thereby proving her point. They were obviously made of completely different
things. Ms. Hayes did not, however, elaborate on a few points on which I would have questioned her had I
been given the opportunity. To her, I suppose, gravity was also non-existent. At first I thought that maybe things stayed
down because they were heavier than air. I realized, however,

007 Reiterates Freeze Urgency
Jeffrey Mann

Pundits around the world have been vociferously reacting to the downing of the Korean airliner by the Soviet Union. But
the reaction has not gone as I first naively thought it would. When I first heard the news of the
attack, I was stunned and horrified like most people. It is hard to imagine how anyone could justify to themselves,
much less any other authority, such a horrific, unprovoked attack. That reaction was fairly standard, at least in this hemisphere.
My next thought apparently left some people behind. “At last, now everyone will see why we need arms limitation and
the nuclear freeze so desperately,” I thought. “We have to make sure that those people have as few weapons as
possible.” I waited expectantly for all the changes of heart from the Right. I’m still waiting. I thought the first
couple comments I heard calling for increased defense spending and cancelling all arms limitation talks were aberrations, coming from Pentagon-first
fanatics who hold a lot of General Dynamics stock. I soon found out that many others didn’t share my assessment,
and it’s interesting where our thinking departs company. I’ve read a lot about how the Russkies are evil, stupid, and
out to destroy us and our way of life. I can go along with that. I agree that the Soviets
have crazy, evil and just plain stupid people in their government and military. I’m also sure that we have just
as many on our side. Would it not make sense to try and keep weapons out of the hands of
these people? We can be sure that whatever we build, they will match, so only agreements, with clauses for verification,
will do this. Building more weapons for our crazy people only ensures that tensions will get worse, and more incidents
like this will occur. Better to negotiate an “immediate mutual, verifiable freeze upon the development, production, and deployment of all
nuclear weapons.”That air is also invisible, so it too must be nonsense. Things stay down because they stay down. That’s
it. I also wonder what her views were on the nature of heat. Heat is not readily seen, so it
must not exist. But what warmed her when she turned on her electric heater, which I guess she presumed to
be as magical as electricity, is also elusive to the human eye. Maybe she just didn’t think about it too
much.

It makes me sad to think what will happen to Ms. Hayes as she ages. At the time she spoke
to our class she was young, twenty-five or so, and in perfect health. As she grows old and her eyesight
fails, I suppose she will be able to believe in fewer and fewer things. I can picture her now sitting
on the porch swing of the house the rich lawyer she marries thirty years or so from now. “No,” she
will say, “I don’t believe in ants, or insects of any kind except bumble-bees and grasshoppers. I used to but
they all went away so I suppose they don’t exist anymore.” After a while she will develop cataracts as all
eventually do. Then she will have to stop believing in dogs, cats, flowers, bicycles, and children. She will hear them
and think that she is becoming senile. Eventually, she will probably stop hearing them. As she goes blind she will
stop believing in her husband, herself, and the porch swing she sits on. Finally, she will stop believing in food
and starve to death. Sad, isn’t it?

I never got to ask Ms. Hayes what she thought about God. I’m quite sure she believes in him. She
would probably say that Moses saw him and that’s good enough for her. I used to feel sorry for Ms.
Hayes because of her beliefs, but now I’m not sure. Even though Ms. Hayes is, in my humble opinion, grossly
in error, she is happy. I guess who I should feel sorry for is the school system. After all, what
do they expect for $24 a day?

Mike Stephens is a freshman from Roswell, Georgia.

The statement most of the Davidson faculty signed last year called for. Then work can begin on reducing the weapons
available to the crazy people who would shoot down an unarmed commercial airliner. Many of the people I’ve read and
heard in the last few weeks have opposed anything like this on the grounds that we shouldn’t “reward” the Soviets.
If we agree to cut down on our weapons and they agree to cut theirs, how is that appeasement? A
real quid pro quo is attainable if we will seriously negotiate. A treaty is to our advantage since the Kremlin
can devote as much of Russia’s productivity to arms as it wants to. They don’t have to justify anything to
their citizens. We have to haggle and scrap over every penny. This tragedy could be an opportunity to promote peace;
it would be a macabre insult to the people who died to use it to promote more death.

Jeffrey Mann is a senior center/journalism major from Atlanta, Georgia and Associate Editor of the Davidsonian.
