The IMAC Gazer

We'll see who’s blest this week

Statement of Purpose: This column was especially designed for all those who enjoy amateur athletics on a primitive level. But
why an IMAC column, you might ask? For the record, we lost a bet to Steve Soud last year on
the Colts-Packers game. (Did anyone in their right mind really figure on Frank Kush’s lowly troops to tie the revitalized
Pack?) As a result, we were allowed to pay in either of two ways. One, take Soud’s sister to her
Senior Prom or two, perform menial and degrading chores for the IMAC Czar. The answer was obvious. Have you ever
seen Steve’s sis? Imagine if you will, Soud in a dress — mustache, clown-like sweats, plastic batting helmet and all
— the horror, the horror...

In this week’s segment, we embark on an in-depth analysis of IMAC B-Ball’s worst and best teams.

The good:

14C14U: Oh, our beloved Pikas, the epitome of academia, possess the only “set” offense in IMAC basketball. 14C14U has a
balanced attack led by Ed “try and get me out of the 3-second lane” Whitesides. Ken Kreig, Brad Harrold, and
Gray Hampton also contribute to the cool, calm, and intellectual game of the Hemingways of Hoops. The Pikes will have
their heads right in the thick of things come play-off time.

The Eighty-Sixers (not the junior Breeze): The surprise team of the league that comes straight from the kiddie halls of
high school. The Sixers show signs of grandeur, but sometimes they get caught up in the illusions of godhood. Derek
Taylor, Steve Smith, James Stanley, and Carl Bynum help the Sixers score points like their NBA counterparts.

Lady Cats Split 2

By KARA GILMORE ‘85

For betting people, the week past was a good one to put money on the Lady Cats, as they finished
1-1. Fifty-fifty odds aren’t so bad, huh?

Things started out looking pretty glum last Thursday night. The team traveled three hours to Mars Hill only to be
stomped by 33 points and then get stranded in a snowstorm. They ended up waiting out the storm overnight in
Asheville without so much as a toothbrush. The smaller Lady Cats simply found themselves overpowered by the much larger Mars
Hill team. As Coach Dee Mayes said, “They had four girls over 6 feet tall, and even when we played
good defense and they missed their first shots, they were always there for the rebound.” The Cats were outrebounded 55
to 23. Not helping things any was the fact that the women’s shooting was as frigid as the temperature outside.
They shot only 27% from the field. Coach Mayes adds, “We are a small team and we’ve got to learn
to box out. We try to go for the ball without getting position first. We’re going to work on it
because it will make a difference in the games coming up.” Mike Frankhouser led the scoring with 12 points, and
Jeanne Womack was team high rebounder collecting six.

Monday night against Methodist, the women fared much better as they came out on top of a 63-59 score. “I’m
happy we won, it was a good morale booster,” Mayes said, “but I’m not really satisfied with the way we
played. We have a tendency to play to the level of our opponents — and Monday we played down to
Methodist’s level instead of playing to our potential. I felt like we had the talent to really put them away.”

The big story of the night, however, was not the victory. Mike Frankhouser is always the best bet to score
in double figures, but Monday she really had things going her way. She sunk 14 of 25 from the floor
and five of seven from the line for a career-high 33 points. (33 was the lucky number last week.)

Record 33

The 33 points was not only a career high for Mike, but it was also a new high for a
Davidson woman, as it eclipsed Sarah Womack’s old record of 32. The 14 field goal total was also a new
record, breaking Womack’s old record of 13. “We all really wanted to win before the game,” Frankhouser said. “We’d traveled
three hours and were really...fired up when we got there.” She abruptly adds, however, “I’d rather see us keep winning
than break records. I'd like to see us balance the scoring out more because that’s the way a team works
best. I was really excited to score 33 points though—I’d never scored over 30 before and I really wanted to
do it once. During the game I knew my shots were falling but I didn’t realize quite how much.” She
continued, “This is probably the best women’s basketball team Davidson has ever had, and definitely the most enthusiastic. We’ve come
back well from our losses and everyone is working really hard.” She concluded, “The biggest ‘appreciation’ I have of basketball
is learning to work together. Working together and communicating are two of the most important things for a successful team.”

Stockton Whitten handles all of the action in the upper stratosphere, but the Eighty-Sixers may have to wait until '86
for a championship trophy.

Fido and the Rear Entries: The SAE’s are celebrating the return of “The Stork,” in hopes of bringing net-smoking excellence
back into the halls of Hoddy. Hall Barnett takes his turtle-like moves from the soccer field onto the hardwood. Ben
Williams, Scott Brandon, and J.C. Faulkner have proven that not only can they throw a great mixer, but can also
“hoop it up.”

The Embassy: Scotty “the Yadkinville Bludgeon” Brendle and his 8-foot jumper give the Embassy high hopes. With injuries to Ken
Hovet and Mark Blackman, these former disciples of the Silver Fox will have to get more scoring from Brent Baker,
Robbie Thornsberry, “Sleeps” Hartman, and the mayor of Nutsville, Jeff Kane. If the Embassy can defer gratifications of parties and
wild women, they may be the team to beat.

The not so goods:

Le Team: Formerly the short, the fat, and the ugly. This team has been described as a 3-ring circus in
Chucks. The only team with a cult following, Le Team is cheered on by 4 voluptuous die-hards who wish to
remain anonymous. Had Dr. Naismith lived to see Le Team he would have burned the peach baskets right then and
there. Individual standouts include team captain Jay Norman, who brings respect back to the granny-style free throw; Johnny “O” Lyday,
who contributes hustle, defense, and brick shots from all over the court; Steve “never say pass” Stine; and John “they
don’t play basketball in Ireland” Hackett. Rounding out this rape of the ideals of basketball are Edwin Evans, Stan Hynds,
and an out of place Paul Griffith. (He actually has talent.)

The Traitors: This team defeated Le Team by a measly basket in OT. The Norwood, Resnik, McMichael combination spells disaster.
These guys should stick to the one thing they are good at—drinking beer. The big mystery is why Rob Poole
is playing with these bums.

Mrs....Mrs. Jones: Few know anything about this team and yet fewer care. They have a perfect record, as they have
not come close to winning.

In the few games of any significance last week: The Carolina Cougars trounced the Gober Sears 123-28, as Richie “my
heart yearns for the Rock” Dubose paced the victors with 46 points. The Old Men, pumped up on Geritol, upset
Fido. Tom Kazee had 14 for the geriatric whiz kids, while Charlie “I’m as strong as an ox and twice
as smart” Slagle added seven to the cause. Finally, the Stray Cats edged past J.E. Hoovers 31-29, as Jim Wright’s
bucket midway through the second half proved to be the difference. Wright shot at the wrong basket; perhaps he should
play for Le Team.

On the Women’s scene, Warner Hall, following January 16’s bloodbath with fourth Rich, has been invited to the Coney Island
Invitational for Female Street Gangs.

SCHOLARSHIPS

If you're planning a career in medicine you owe it to yourself to find out about the Air Force's Health
Professions Scholarship Program. Qualified U.S. Citizens can receive scholarships for medical or osteopathic school. Our scholarships include:

Tuition
Required Books
Required Lab Fees
Required Equipment Rental
and More Than $550 Monthly Stipend

THE DAVIDSONIAN/28 January 1983 15
