The Davidsonian / Friday, September 30, 1983

OPINIONS

Survival Of The Fittest
Duncan Fraser

A week ago, ATO eating house succumbed to the same plague of financial instability which has ailed houses on Patterson Court for years. However, ATO’s closing, the second folding of an eating house in less than a year, put the message bluntly: stability and success on the court are not givens, but rather the product of planning and strong leadership. To succeed on the court, a house must realize that only the best can survive. Best in this case means a healthy membership of students who are committed to the house and want it to be “The Best.” Such a house actively pursues prospective members who have the potential for making significant contributions to the house, thereby assuring its continued attraction and pride.

Today, unlike past generations, a house on the Court faces competition not only from other houses, but also from the Vail Commons. More than ever before, upperclassmen are opting to continue their freshman eating habits as independents. The Commons offers food which is often superior to that of many houses. Further enticement is added by the fact that meal cards can be used at the Union Café. Finally, eating space is never a problem, thanks to the wisdom and foresight of Davidson’s powers-that-be.

Vail Commons’ capacity and the reasoning behind it was a major source of speculation during the planning and construction of the facility. There were accusations of a desire on the part of the College to close Patterson Court under the weight of competition. This view, whether accepted or not, is reasonable considering recent events which confirm that Patterson Court does, in fact, operate under the axiom of “survival of the fittest.” The Commons, with the support and stability of the College behind it, faces no threat of folding. In fact, it is generating outside revenues through meals, especially Sunday brunch, sold to townspeople. To further this, the Commons has done everything short of running advertisements in newspapers; a phone number has been set up to give daily menus for those considering eating at the Commons. Do meal card holders actually check menus before going to a dinner for which they have no alternative? With this backing and extra revenue, which undoubtedly helps...

On A Sense Of Wonder
David Resnik

Now that we’ve been here for what seems like a short eternity and we think we understand a little bit more of the world, we are beginning to see our goals more clearly and our ultimate role in life. And that’s all there is: school, work, family, retirement, then death. It seems so tidy, so self-assured, and yet so ephemeral. During the course of our studying, our striving for grades and positive reinforcement, we must not forget that the world does not revolve around our personal axis, that there is more to life than the pleasures of food, drink, and polite conversation. In the middle of all this activity, we must not forget to take time out for reflection. In the pursuit of our wisdom, we must never lose our sense of wonder.

I’m not attacking anyone’s right to pursue their own pleasure; by doing so I would only be judging myself. But I am challenging the blind hedonist. Surely someone must remember memorizing Socrates’ famous line, “The unexamined life is not worth living.” This statement is as valuable today as it was 2500 years ago.

Quite often we rush from one event to another as if life were a motion picture, not realizing that the world would not exist without the time between frames. Quite often we could get more learning done not by cramming in the library or madly scribbling notes in class, but by sitting down alone, reflecting. Not to...Say that studying is bad per se, but we must put the world together ourselves in order to give it meaning. There are too many of us who willingly accept a pre-fabricated world view. The unexamined life is not worth living. Some time when you’ve got a break between classes, sit down on the Chambers lawn. Watch the squirrels and birds leap between the trees; watch the cars glide past the church. Watch the sun as it reveals the autumn colors; watch the people as they hurry to their next appointment.

Undoubtedly, the Commons will grow overall. With this enticing alternative available from the College, the fall of Patterson Court is being accelerated by self-selection. Disregarding the ethical debates concerning self-selection, one salient fact emerges: self-selection weakens house memberships and decentralizes the unity, pride, and camaraderie in a house which attracts members committed not merely to the survival of a house, but rather its prosperity and leadership on the Court. Today, only three or four houses (KA, PiKA, SAE, and possibly Phi Delt) have been able to resist operating under strict self-selection. They have survived, prospered, and will continue to do so. These houses plan for their future by actively seeking potentially contributing members and creating a sense of unity through a “pledge” process that can be heard across campus in the form of unison grunts and cheers. Although planning has been criticized in the past, whether justly or not, it has definitely assured these houses of financial stability and continued leadership on the Court and campus. They are, in essence, The Fittest on the Court.

True, PAX is one house which has boomed under strict self-selection, but it has done so under extraordinary leadership and has no guarantee of the same success five years from now. Furthermore, can anyone actually envision three or seven self-selecting eating houses with PAX’s success on the Court, at the same time, given the competition of the Commons? The result, if self-selection is further enforced, as a recent letter from ex-President Spencer shortly before his departure urged, could well be the demise of the entire Court and an integral part of Davidson College. In order to survive, houses on the Court will inevitably be forced either to take a more assertive effort in recruiting members and being seen as desirable or join ETC and ATO as victims of competition with Vail Commons.

Fraser is a sophomore economics major from Atlanta, Ga. and currently eats at the Commons.

And as you watch all this activity, ask yourself if you really know what causes it to happen. If you still think you know, then maybe you're not looking hard enough. Some may claim that they already achieve a sense of wonder in church on Sunday morning or at a party on Saturday night. To be truly reflective, we must wonder why we go to church or why we drink. If after critically examining your values, you find that they are still intact, then keep them. After all, we can’t all examine our values all the time. If we did, there would be no one left to run our factories and stock markets and airports and computers. Obviously, not everyone can or should be a philosopher. But everyone can incorporate philosophy into their life.

If you are still reading this article, you may wonder, “What gives this person a right to tell me what to do?” Well, I guess my answer is “nothing.” You may question my criticism that you do not question the world enough, but by doing so you are only realizing that goal I set out to achieve. We must never lose our sense of wonder.

Resnik is a junior philosophy major from Chapel Hill, N.C. and is Executive Editor of The Davidsonian.