Princeton Theologian Reads Frost

Associate director of speech at Princeton Theological Seminary, William Brower, will present “A Friendly Visit with Robert Frost” on the Davidson College campus Wednesday, January 12. The one-man poetry reading will be at 8 p.m. in Hodson Hall. There is no admission charge and a reception will immediately follow the performance.

As a teacher of oral interpretation of literature, Brower specializes in the works of Robert Frost. Frost, who died in 1964, received four Pulitzer Prizes for his poetry and 43 honorary degrees from universities here and abroad. The program which will be seen at Davidson is one which Brower has presented coast-to-coast. It includes recitation of some of the more than 60 Frost poems which Brower has memorized, as well as commentary on the poet’s life.

Brower, a member of Princeton’s department of practical theology since 1954, formerly acted on stage and television. He performed in the early 1950s in such shows as “The Ford Theater,” “Kraft Theater,” “Studio One,” and “The Big Story.”

(Continued from p. 1)

EA, me about that, but I explained that I just don’t enjoy competing athletically.” As a freshman, Kiss received the prestigious Edward Crosland Stuart Scholarship to Davidson, and she has maintained a 4.0 GPA throughout her Davidson career. In addition to academics, Kiss is active in human rights advocacy. She was a founding member last year of the Davidson Coalition on El Salvador, and currently serves as core-group coordinator for the Davidson Amnesty International chapter, a human rights organization.

Harvard Club Holds Meeting

The Harvard Club of Charlotte held its annual Christmas dinner meeting Thursday, Jan. 6 at the Vail Commons at Davidson College. The evening began with a champagne social hour at 6 p.m., followed by a dinner of roast sirloin with all the trimmings. The program included a light-hearted panel discussion titled “Liberal Arts and Performing Arts,” featuring President of Davidson College Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr., and conductor of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra Leo Driehuys. Professor emeritus of English Charles Lloyd, former coach of Davidson’s national champion 1979 College Bowl team, moderated the meeting.

Driehuys was born in The Hague, and received his degree with honor from the Royal Conservatory of Music. He served as conductor of three Dutch radio orchestras and the Gelders Orkest in Arnhem before assuming his present position in 1977. He remains a permanent conductor of the Radio Orchestra of the Netherlands, and served as guest conductor of the North Carolina Symphony during 1980-81.

Kiss’s concern for human rights stems from very personal circumstances. Her father was a political prisoner under Nazi and communist governments and fled his native Hungary with his wife in 1956 before the short-lived revolution. She is aware of the “kind of suffering that goes on in the world.” She believes that “basic human rights are independent of culture. More work needs to be done on determining what basic human rights are—what every human being has a right to be granted, regardless of where they live, what political system they live under, or what their race, sex, or religion is.”

Publication Board

The Media Board has established a publications board to be comprised of the editors and business managers of the five major student publications. In a memorandum to the editors of the Davidsonian, Hobart Park, Miscellany, and Wildcat Handbook, Dean of Students Will Terry outlined the tasks which the new board will undertake. The group will meet monthly to discuss activities and ideas about each publication. Once a term the group will meet with the Media Board to review publishing schedules and to approve candidates for elections of publication editors.

Letter: Pep?

To the Editor:

With great pride I rejoicedIn the sweetest basketball victory Davidson College has experienced in many years, being the victory over Notre Dame on Tuesday, January 4, in overtime, 54-51. Never have I seen the students more involved in a game; never have I seen enthusiasm for Davidson basketball at a greater peak than at that game; and the scene after the game on the basketball court was reminiscent of years gone by.

The Rhodes program doesn’t really look for people with ‘causes’... but for people with something that makes them stick out. The Rhodes program will give Kiss the opportunity to “sink my teeth into... the theoretical foundations for notions of human rights.” Through her studies as a Rhodes Scholar, she hopes to investigate human rights conditions in Europe as part of her research and study. Kiss’s involvement with the issue of human rights has motivated her to develop herself into what she describes as the “committed scholar,” a student concerned with intellectual pursuits as well as extra-curricular activities. Kiss’s work as an advocate of human rights was definitely a factor in her selection as a Rhodes scholar. She worries that often many students “don’t see that these two things are worth balancing out.” Kiss feels the Rhodes Scholarship program will be an opportunity “to continue to do work in academics and on behalf of issues important to me... and to find some kind of harmony between those two.”

As a junior, Kiss spent two quarters studying at the Sorbonne in Paris. She says the experience provided her with a clear insight into the way she could contribute to the Davidson community. “As a student, I had come to know the system at Davidson and I had come to love it, but [Paris] helped me to understand that I could do my own thing here and be comfortable about it.” Kiss served as editor of The Davidsonian her sophomore year, and she is currently the secretary of the Women’s Concerns Committee.

This Davidson team is a team of which the College can be proud, and a team on the upswing. However, one thing about the game still bothers me after the celebration was over: the actions of one administration official towards a group of Davidson College students sitting directly behind the Notre Dame bench. Throughout the game, until this administration official visited that section of the stands, the students in that section were heckling the Notre Dame bench and, particularly, head coach “Digger” Phelps. However, the heckling was good-natured, in the form of mainly telling the coach to sit down, and yelling loudly during any timeouts. Such yelling and interest in the game is what gives a home team a home court advantage. This occurred at the Notre Dame game, until one certain school administration official came and told the students in that particular section not to do it anymore. This was totally disrespectful of students’ rights and puts a definite damper on school spirit. Administration, let the students have their fun at the games, and don’t try to take away that fun by bothering them during the middle of the game, telling them not to yell, when they are doing nothing but generating good school spirit to start with. Students, scream your loudest at the games, and keep generating that home court advantage that means so much. Such is all an endearing part of collegiate athletics.

John F. Cutchin ’72

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Post Office Box 218, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Subscriptions cost $12 per year within the United States and its possessions; rates for the Far East and Oceania upon request. $16 per year elsewhere in North America; $22 in Europe ($30 air-speeded). 

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 7 January 1983