Friday, November 4, 1983 / The Davidsonian 11

SPORTS

542 Yards Total Offense
Furman Spoils Davidson Homecoming 55-7

By SCOTT HUIE

David may have done it, but for Davidson to have beaten the Goliath known as the Furman Paladins last Saturday,
it would have taken more than just a slingshot. In the 55-7 Homecoming loss, Davidson finished its inaugural season in
the Southern Conference — well, at least since 1973 — with an 0-5 record. Going in the opposite direction, Furman
advanced to 6-1-1, making the game an ideal warmup for their post-season plans.

The Paladins played nearly perfect football, rolling up 542 yards in total offense, 398 of which came on the ground.
Of their eight touchdowns, five came on long grind-it-out drives, while three resulted from Davidson turnovers.

In light of the rout, could there possibly be some consolation? “Well, [Furman Coach] Dick Sheridan told me they kept
their first string in longer than they had in their previous couple of wins,” Coach Ed Farrell said.

First string, second string, club football team, whatever — Furman came to play. “Without a doubt,” Farrell said, “they are
the class of all the teams we play.”

In the first half, Davidson looked respectable despite falling behind 21-0. But after the homecoming queen was picked, the Paladins
returned to the field and scored three quick touchdowns to put the game well out of reach.

“In the first half we played well,” Farrell said. “But by the time the second half rolled around, we were
just drained physically. Their superiority really came through and they just outmanned us.”

Two bright spots have been the play of wide receivers Jeff McSwain and Todd Hermetz. “Those two have consistently made
big catches all year,” Farrell said. None bigger and none more spectacular than the ones they made on Davidson’s fourth
quarter 83-yard touchdown drive. Sandwiched like meatloaf between two defenders, McSwain timed his leap perfectly and came down with a
patented Lynn Swann 30-yard reception. In a similar fashion five plays later, Hermetz eluded a host of defenders and hauled
in a one-handed catch for a 13-yard TD, his fourth of the year.

Other impressive performances to date: freshman halfback Mike Cate, who, as the Cats’ top rusher, has 292 yards on 73
carries (four yards average) and ranks among the Southern Conference leaders in all-purpose running with 925 yards; linebacker Will Bynum,
who has 68 tackles and five sacks; and defensive end Jerry Grubba, who has 61 tackles and five sacks.

Summing up the team’s performance, reserve wingback Alan Rosier said, “Of course, we’re disappointed. But we feel we still can
go out with a couple of wins. We still have that ‘eye of the tiger’, so to speak.”

What stands between the Cats and a victory may not be Clubber Lang, but rather the Bucknell Bisons (2-4-1), who
take on Davidson tomorrow in Pennsylvania. Bucknell holds a 9-3 lead in the series, which includes a Bison win last
year at Davidson, 21-0. After winning their first two games, Bucknell has lost four and tied one.

When Farrell came to Davidson ten years ago, he brought with him the infamous Wing-T offense, which has often befuddled
opponents (Furman Coach Sheridan said Davidson’s Wing-T always causes them problems). Tomorrow, however, the Cats face an opponent with the
very same offense. In terms of strategy, both teams will probably be very predictable.

“Bucknell seldom is explosive on offense but do a good job of creating turnovers and capitalizing on them,” Farrell said.
Unfortunately, turnovers have been the Cats’ downfall this year. The Bisons are...on a backward spin, so the time may be
ripe for an upset. But I'll go with the odds.

Huie's Prediction: Bucknell 28 - Davidson 27

Soccer Team Prepares For Championship Run

With only two games left in the regular season and possibly one in the championship, the verdict is still out
on this year’s soccer team. Whether all the pain, the blood, and the sweat were worth it will be determined
tomorrow against Appalachian State University as each player strives to give his personal best. The parents will be treated to
the most crucial and intensely competed game of the year.

In Boone, Davidson narrowly beat ASU a month ago. The 3-1 score belies the fact that the game was evenly
played. For the last 15 minutes, ASU’s attack was unstoppable. Luck and a good goalie kept the ball out of
the net. Remember also that the Wildcats’ third goal came with just three seconds left.

ASU has been playing well since then. They tied N.C. State — a team that is ranked fifth in the
South (Davidson is ranked 8th). They are 3-2 in the conference. A win tomorrow would put them in a three-way
tie for first in the northern division. To determine who plays in the championship, a coin toss would be held
with ASU, Marshall, and Davidson having equal chances.

However, Davidson holds the upper hand. They are 4-1 and need only a tie to win the division. In addition,
it appears they have pulled out of a late-season slump after the 6-0 cakewalk over VMI on Wednesday. The Wildcats
were awesome as they worked the ball over the field in the first half, but all their shots ended up
in the woods behind the goal. The only goal they got was a header by Mike Lufkin off a pass
from Mike Mauzé. It was incredibly frustrating for Coach Charlie Slagle to see his team dominate so completely and be
only one goal ahead. A lucky break for VMI at any time could have tied the game.

That break almost came for VMI early in the second half, but their forward hit the ball into the side
of the netting. The play woke Davidson up. A string of three goals within a minute and a half made
Coach very happy. Tony Cabrales got two of them, one on a beautiful heel pass from Mauzé who was a
dominating force the entire game. Cabrales’s other goal was a classic instep drive just inside the far post. Bryan Shockley
got the first of his two goals during the span. Coming from the right side he hit it straight over
the goalie who was expecting a cross. Shockley’s second goal was amusing in that Davidson keeper Jim Kelly got the
assist. Kelly cradled the ball after a VMI attack had been squelched. One big punt and two bounces later (with
a little help from Shockley’s foot), the ball was in the goal. Sean Moser scored the final goal on a
penalty kick.

The game was a big relief after a lackluster Homecoming game resulted in a 1-1 tie with Furman. Steve Bernhardt
made the goal in this game. After that goal Davidson relaxed and lost their intensity. When Furman tied the game,
the Wildcats could not get back on track and embarrassed themselves in front of the large crowd.

The soccer team is in a position to win the first conference title for Davidson in any sport since women’s
tennis turned the trick in 1973. Soccer is 2-3-2 overall. The remaining games are ASU tomorrow, Wake Forest away on
Thursday, and maybe the conference championship next Saturday.
