The Bridge on the River Kwai (1957-British) Directed by David Lean. Screenplay by Carl Foreman and Michael Wilson, based on Pierre Boulle’s novel. Starring Alec Guinness, William Holden, Jack Hawkins, Sessue Hayakawa, Geoffrey Horne, and James Donald. 161m. Rating: saiiadiad

Pop films chairman John Munson is on to something. For the second time this year, a brilliant “pop” film will be shown at Love on Saturday Night. The first movie in this unofficial series, East of Eden, featured James Dean’s extraordinary performance as Cal, the rebellious son of moral-minded farmer Raymond Massey. Tomorrow, an even better film, David Lean’s magnificent war tale, The Bridge on the River Kwai, will be presented. Like Eden, it’s a must-see movie.

The plot concerns the efforts of a group of Japanese World War II POWs, who, headed by fellow British POW Alec Guinness, build a bridge for their captors, while William Holden, the American POW, sets about to destroy this structure. The action is first-rate, in the grueling David Lean (Dr. Zhivago) style, with plenty of stirring scenes and, oddly enough, psychological drama. It is essentially a pro-human nature statement, for Guinness and his men become so absorbed in building the bridge, in cooperating, that they forget the war, but what about William Holden’s reminder that there is a war. Lean takes what might have been sappy melodrama and produces a compelling film of human compassion.

Alec Guinness is, as always, marvelous, and deserved every inch of the Oscar he received for his performance. In all his movies, Guinness proves to be the driving actor, the versatile grab-all man, but he has been sadly overlooked. Generally, Guinness plays supporting roles, but in Kwai he steps into the limelight and bathes in it, the audience bathing with him. William Holden is, well, William Holden, but so what? His character fits into the movie perfectly. Sessue Hayakawa also turns in a memorable performance as the Japanese leader with a heart. Like other Lean classics, this one is well over 2 hours long but seems remarkably short and stands with Lawrence of Arabia and Dr. Zhivago as Lean’s monument trilogy.

P.S. Writers Carl Foreman and Michael Wilson were blacklisted at the time this movie came out, so the Academy Award went to author Pierre Boulle (Planet of the Apes) who didn’t speak a word of English. Ugh.

The Week at the Movies with Matt the Cat

Lili Marleen (1981-German) Directed by the late, great Rainer Werner Fassbinder. Starring Hanna Schygulla, Giancarlo Giannini, Mel Ferrer, Karl-Heinz von Hassel, and Karin Baal. Rating: **'!4

The German director Werner Fassbinder, who shot himself last year, was a genius. He essentially reopened the door to German Cinema after it had been closed for nearly 40 years, and in his brief film career (10 years), cranked out over 50 movies. His films are realistic harsh portrayals, perhaps revealing more of the tormented man inside than anything else. On this level, Lili Marleen, Fassbinder’s last film, ends; however, the movie loses much of the power it could have had due to its overwhelming pretentiousness. The story, aDirect remake of Josef Von Sternberg’s The Blue Angel (the film which quenched Von Sternberg’s and Marlene Dietrich’s film careers) works in fits and starts. I can’t entirely recommend Lili Marleen but I can commend Fine Film for having the guts to get a foreign film, which is almost a dirty word in most of America. See this movie so Fine Films will know that European films are not box-office bombs at Davidson, even though it’s a second-rate film from a first-rate director. There are just too many good foreign movies out there to let us blow it.

Diner (1982) written and directed by Barry Levinson. Starring Kevin Bacon, Mickey Rourke, Daniel Stern, and Timothy Daly. Rating: ***

Diner is a breakthrough film. Finally, an adult movie with splendid acting, heartfelt story, and direction is getting the national attention it deserves rather than going to “cult-heaven.” The plot is Levinson’s almost autobiographical look at growing up in Baltimore during the ’50s, and while it doesn’t make “important” statements, Diner manages to be a minor achievement. The four leads are all perfect, but Mickey Rourke and Tim Daly are especially good. Rourke plays a reluctant beautician, of all things, trying to get a job that will fit his male image better. Daly’s Charles Atlas type attitude is hysterically funny when it is plopped into a Haircut Heaven and he milks the role carefully. As the reluctant husband-to-be sports fan, Tim Daly wins all the honors. Perhaps the best scene in the movie is when, because of his second thoughts on marriage, Daly schemes to have his wife pass a sports quiz before he will marry her. The tension is as high as when Oedipus solved the Sphinx’s riddle. Director Levinson, who has made the traditional pilgrimage to Hollywood following the success of Diner, may have already burnt out, but Diner is a wonderful film filled with warmth and human emotions. See it.

Great Expectations (1946) directed by David Lean based on the Charles Dickens story. Starring John Mills (Hayley’s father), Valerie Hobson, Bernard Miles, Francis L. Sullivan, and, as great as ever, Alec Guinness. 116m. Viewers Guide: ****

After Citizen Kane and mid-term, what more can we ask from Engell’s film class? Why, David Lean’s (yes, him again) adaptation of Great Expectations, showing at Perkins this Friday at 7:30, will, I promise, go way beyond yours. Made in what many consider Lean’s golden period, Great Expectations is a wonderful adaptation of a wonderful book and highly recommended (as are the rest of the films scheduled for this term). This faithful version of the book is full of pleasant surprises in both the acting and directing corners. John Mills scores in this typically realistic Dickens tale as the mysterious benefactor who creates a gentleman out of a degenerate orphan boy. The direction is superlative, with Lean keeping the film moving at a fast clip. I don’t think you’ll find a better version of a Charles Dickens tale anywhere and Great Expectations is a must-see movie.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 January 1983