THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXIII, Number 9
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, November 11, 1983

Faculty Votes To Abandon Credit-Hours System
By DAN VOORHIS

Davidson faculty members voted overwhelmingly Tuesday to abandon a proposed credit-hour system in favor of the present course-credit system when
the College changes to semesters next fall. The faculty had approved the credit-hour proposal in principle on May 3 by
a two-thirds majority. The Educational Policy Committee (EPC) wrote the credit-hour proposal, but this motion never reached a vote during
the meeting. Instead, the faculty passed a substitute motion for credit based solely on courses, with the exception of Humanities
which would be worth one-and-a-half credits per semester.

Under the defeated credit-hour system, courses would be worth three credits because they would meet three hours a week. Labs
would be worth an extra credit hour per three hours of scheduled lab work. Most lab courses would be worth
four credit hours and a few five. The EPC’s proposed system would have set graduation requirements at 108 credit hours
or 36 courses. Grade-point averages would have been weighted according to classes students took.

Opposition to credit hours stemmed from two basic problems. The first centers on the disparity between time students spend in
lab sciences and in other courses. “The credit-hours system was designed to recognize the extra work of a lab course,”
said chairman of the biology department John Williamson. Science majors would have to take either fewer courses for the same
hours or the same number of courses but more hours as the other majors.

Other objections came from professors dissatisfied with the way credits were assigned to courses. French professor Everett Jacobus disputed “rewarding
lab hours in sciences but not considering those other

By DAVID McGEE

“I had just got up. I usually lie on the couch in the living room most of the day,” said
Newtie Johnston, 91, of 107 Main Street in Davidson. A few seconds after she left her living room at 1:30
p.m. Wednesday, the front end of a 1973 Buick driven by Donald Brown, 46, crashed through a double-brick wall into
Johnston’s living room.

“I had gone back to the kitchen. Then I heard this terrible noise — it sounded like the roof had
blown off or a bomb,” Johnston said. No one was seriously hurt in the incident. Brown, a custodian at Davidson
College, was returning from his lunch break. He had turned around to look for a parking place on Concord Road
and was headed toward Main Street. Brown said he had a seizure caused by a hepatitis infection he has had
for several years. “It never gives you a warning,” he said. His foot clamped down on the accelerator, and after
his car ran the stop light, it jumped the curb and went airborne for 20 feet before hitting the house.
“The next thing I remember was somebody pulling me out of the car,” Brown said.

Brown was released from Huntersville Hospital and Charlotte Memorial Hospital after treatment for cuts and bruises. Davidson Police have charged
Brown with a stop light violation. Johnston said neither she nor Brown has much insurance to repair damages to her
house. “It will be a while before I can move back in,” she said.

Captain Jackie Hughes examines wrecked Buick

Inside This Week
-Amazons: Flickerball gorgons complete four-year women’s league tyranny. Page 5
-Barber: Theatre department chairman has long career at Davidson. Page 6
-Annie and Sue: ATO’s closing will affect its cooks as well as its members. Page 3
-Sacre Bleu: The soccer team takes on Furman in SC championship battle. Page 8
-Bruce Jackson: Math department head receives Jefferson Award for teaching excellence. Page 3Courses that need extra meetings. Credit hours really
did not account for some of the difference,” he said. Some professors call the credit assigned to courses somewhat arbitrary.
“It looked as if we were heading toward conflict by equating credit hours with a certain amount of work,” said
Jacobus. Classics Professor Dirk French agreed. “It is very difficult to cover educational value under such a system because credit
hours are such a neutral equivalent,” he said. Jacobus said, “Rather than try to be accountants and try to measure,
we should rely on the professionalism of faculty members to put together a well-balanced course. It’s difficult to quantify the
amount of student commitment needed to pass a course.”

Credit Hour Proponents

Proponents of the credit-hour system disagree. For them, the hours would provide some compensation for the extra lab hours. Williamson
said the vote “put us back to square one. It is important to differentiate credit.” Some speculate that the faculty
defeated the measure because it wanted to remove a major obstacle to implementing a semester system. Rejecting credit hours eliminates
many potential problems, but at the same time, opposing credit hours might harm the implementation of semesters. “Probably more wanted
a semester calendar than a semester calendar and credit hours,” French said. Others felt that defeating credit hours stripped the
semester system of all its benefits. “The advantages of semesters as outlined by Maloney’s committee [to study the semester system]
have disappeared and I wondered if the system remains valid. There is widespread dis-

(Continued on page 4)

SGA, PAC Distribute Evaluation Forms

By DAVID RESNIK

The SGA and the faculty Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) are both distributing their own student faculty evaluation forms this term,
although the College has endorsed no official student faculty evaluation.

The SGA Senate voted at its October 25 meeting to conduct its own faculty evaluation after Interim President Frontis Johnston
rejected the SGA’s request to present the issue to the Trustees. SGA President Hunter Monroe sent a letter to the
faculty Monday asking them if they plan to distribute the SGA forms, some other form, or no form at all.
As of Thursday, 29 professors had responded to his letter. Thirteen said they would use the SGA form; 16 said
they would use some other form.

The SGA Form

The SGA form consists of 20 multiple choice questions and three essay questions. The multiple choice questions resemble the Illinois
Course Evaluation System (ICES) questions, and the prose section is drawn from the PAC form. The SGA will give the
prose section answers directly to the faculty. The SGA will tabulate and return the multiple-choice questions to the faculty in
the Winter term. All the information will be kept strictly confidential, and all results, except the professor’s copy, will be
destroyed when tabulation is complete. Monroe said the SGA could have publicized its results, but he felt that such a
move would only destroy rapport between the students and faculty.

The SGA will also distribute its form to students whose professors did not distribute a form. Students can pick up
forms at a table in front of the Chambers Gallery this Monday from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Monroe encouraged
all students to fill out some kind of evaluation form. “If not very many students fill out a form,” Monroe
said, “then it will send a message to the faculty that students don’t care [about faculty evaluations].” Monroe is sending
a letter to the Trustees informing them about student opinion on the faculty evaluation issue, though he will not demand
any direct action.

The PAC Form

PAC Chairman and Religion Professor Alexander McKelway sent a letter to

(Continued on page 5)
