4 Friday, April 8, 1983/The Davidsonian

Age Cripples Language Lab.

BY PAULETTE KURANI

Malfunctioning rewind systems, broken buttons, and distorted sound reception — all are problems plaguing Davidson’s 25-year-old language laboratory. Installed in 1958 and updated in 1975, the James Wilkinson Jervey III Language Laboratory has faced greatly increased use over the past four years which has sped the deterioration of the system.

“In terms of equipment, the lab is not that old,” said Director of Audio Visual Services Ruth Pittard. “The biggest problem with the machines is the students’ carelessness. Considering the amount of use and regular wear and tear, occasional machine breakdowns are to be expected.”

On some days as many as 150 students use the language lab’s 40 booths to complete assignments. The equipment in the lab is built to be sturdy, according to Pittard, but with an average of eight students stopping and starting each machine ten to twenty times a day, the wear and tear is significant.

Class of '87 Announced

BY KIRK KIRKPATRICK

Davidson accepted 595 students for enrollment in the class of 1987 last Friday. The 1,801 applicants from which the class was chosen represent a 20 percent increase in applicants over last year. Fifty-eight percent of those accepted will enroll in September, projected Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid John V. Griffith. The class of 1987, which should be nearly 40 percent female, is expected to have 330-340 members, approximately the size of the current Freshman class.

Griffith said that he is pleased with the quality of those selected. One out of six accepted students (107 total) were class valedictorians, and the mean SAT score rose to 1230. SAT mean scores have risen from 1180 to 1230 in the past 4 years. In 1980 Davidson had roughly 1,560 applicants; in 1981, 1,700; in 1982, 1,500; and this year 1,801. “The applicant pool seems to expand and contract, so Davidson becomes more widely known on one hand and more selective on the other.” Griffith said that “it is clear that Davidson will attract more applicants.”

The Admissions Office attributes the 20 percent increase in applicants to several factors. First is the increasing national awareness of Davidson’s “impressive academic credentials.” Among the prominent and more tangible factors are the dining service and the new computer system. Griffith said, “The Commons is a major plus, especially for visitors and during events like SGA weekend.” Easy access to the Prime 750 has already had an impact and will become an increasingly important factor. “The terminal-student ratio may someday carry as much importance as that of faculty to student,” he said.

Griffith also points to the importance of the Sloan Grant in integrating science and technology in the liberal arts program. Griffith said the impending change from the trimester to the semester system has no impact on admissions. He claims that from the perspective of the prospective student, the advantages and disadvantages of both systems balance each other. When asked about the tuition increase for 1983-84, Griffith feels that Davidson remains a bargain when compared to the costs of other schools.

PCSC Proposal

(Continued from page 1)

Although Gould said he would ideally like a student referendum on the SGA recommendation, he said that some members of the SGA had voiced concern that the student body as a whole might not be educated well enough on the nuances of any proposal to cast an informed vote. Since the SGA is the student body's elected representative body, Gould pointed out, it “theoretically should be able to vote wisely and come up with the best recommendation.”

The main concern of the SGA, said President Hunter Monroe, is to “come up with a system that best represents what the students want.” In addition, he said, the lines reading “the court fraternities should be allowed to openly confront or challenge an unencouraged shotgunner” might be altered to something similar to, “a freshman has the right to approach the fraternity rush chairman and ask his status, and to be answered honestly.”

After the PCSC made its report at the SGA meeting Tuesday night, Gould said that as many senators as possible would be at the April 18 open forum to hear discussion on all proposals. Then on April 19 the SGA will vote on the proposals and find one it feels will be most representative of the student body.an hour, it is not surprising that the tape players continually wear out. "If I consistently get my usual machine everything’s all right. But otherwise, I run into problems," said Freshman Janice Evans. Problems with the tape players include malfunctioning rewind systems, buttons falling off, and distorted sound reception. German professor Esther Wruck said that the problem is generally known — the equipment is simply getting old. Former Chairman of the Language Lab Committee Hallam Walker agrees that constant maintenance is a problem. "Although the lab, as it is set up now, accommodates the students in terms of equipment, it will have to be renewed within a few years," he said. Erik Christensen is partly responsible for upholding the machines. But, according to French professor Lauren Yoder, "Erik doesn’t have time to do all the work. If we had a full-time person who maintained the equipment regularly, perhaps it wouldn’t have to be renewed as frequently."

Another problem plaguing the students is the quality and sound of the tapes. "Students are used to top-notch quality from their own sets," said current Language Lab Committee Chairman Lois A. Kemp, "and they expect it here, too." Sometimes extensive use results in static-filled and hard-to-understand tapes. The deterioration results also from the 1974 conversion from reel-to-reel to cassette, when some recordings had to be transferred to the new cassettes. This term professors are trying to listen to old tapes in order to eliminate and replace the bad ones. The quality of some tapes has to do with manufacturing, according to Pittard. "Some [tapes] have telephone conversations in the background. This shows that they were carelessly recorded at the studios," she explained.

As for the language lab itself, it’s in a "holding period" where renewal is concerned, according to Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann. "Now is not the time for upgrading old-fashioned technology," he said. "I suspect that in five years language labs will be computerized, so we're reluctant to make any major changes until we see the outcome of the future."

This concept of language teaching at Davidson was first introduced by Spanish Professor Pedro Trakas in 1955 when he suggested that the College set up a lab that would help students in their development of foreign languages. A year later, a committee was formed consisting of professors Trakas, Howard French, and George B. Watts (chairman). The plans for the language lab, however, were not realized until 1958, after a donation from Dr. and Mrs. James Wilkinson Jervey Jr. in memory of their son and Davidson alumnus, the late J. W. Jervey III. The lab dedication was held on February 21 of that year during a formal ceremony. Presidents, professors, and administrators from neighboring schools and colleges attended the event.

Honor Code Expanded to Cover Computers
BY DUNCAN FRASER

The Student Conduct Council voted last week to amend the Honor Code and Code of Responsibility to cover the College computers. The Council must take a second vote on the amendment not less than 14 days after the initial vote according to the Code of Disciplinary Procedure. The amendment calls for two additions to the Honor Code and one to the Code of Responsibility. The first addition classifies any attempt to enter the administrative computer without authorization as an Honor Code violation. The second addition broadens the description of plagiarism to cover the "unattributed use of a computer algorithm (i.e., a set of steps designed to achieve a desired end)." The third amendment is in the Code of Responsibility and says in part that "damage to information on the computer will be viewed in the same manner as damage to property." In addition, the amendment emphasizes the assumption of privacy on the computer and prohibits any "unauthorized review, transfer, or alteration of information on the computer."

The proposed changes were written last month by Mathematics professor L. R. King, German professor Hansford Epes, and junior Hunter Monroe. Monroe believes that the changes will "create a more respectful attitude toward other users on the computer." Although violations of the Honor Code and Code of Responsibility have involved the computer in the past, the word computer is never mentioned in either document. The reason for making the change now, according to Monroe, is that the "computer has settled in more to the College," and this amendment merely "adjusts the computer to the College."