The Davidsonian/Friday, October 21, 1983

Field Hockey Defeats Appalachian State 2-0

By KARA GILMORE

The field hockey team scored a 2-0 win Monday against rival Appalachian State, raising its record to 4-3-1. The previous week was disappointing for the team, as they dropped games to Wake Forest and High Point.

The women came out strong with controlled passing and good cutting to the ball. The offense pushed the ball deep into the App State end and forced their defense into surrendering a penalty corner. Freshman sweeper Heather McKee came up to the circle, received the hit cut, and blasted a shot past the Appalachian goalie giving the Lady Cats a 1-0 lead.

The Cats didn’t sit back, though. Within minutes they forced the App defense into another mistake and had their second penalty corner of the game. Again McKee came up to the circle. This time she received the ball, made a quick pull to her right to avoid the defense, and again sent a shot whizzing past the defending goalie. Appalachian failed to score in the remaining two minutes of the half, so at halftime Davidson held a 2-0 lead.

The second half was evenly played by both teams. Neither managed to score, so Davidson held on for a 2-0 victory. This victory was especially significant because this game was the first Davidson victory over an ASU field hockey team, and the last home game for the team’s seven seniors.

The seniors are forwards Laura Hills, Mavin Martin, Stephanie Bensinger, and Leslie Bryan; and midfielders Katie Dagenhart, Carolyn Scragg, and Courtney Hall.

DUKE THE FUQUA SCHOOL OF BUSINESS

The Fuqua School of Business at Duke University offers one of the finest available opportunities for unsurpassed professional management training. We are interested in men and women who have proven academic, leadership, and social abilities.

Jane D. Novick, Associate Director of Admissions and Financial Aid of the Fuqua School, will be on campus Monday, October 24. Appointment information may be obtained by contacting the Office for Experiential Programs & Life/Work Planning.

Men’s Cross Country Experiences Letdown

By RAND HARTSELL

No provocative leads this week. No catchy rhetoric. Not much to report. There has to be a lull in the season at some point, a letdown of sorts. Coming off their second-place finish at the NAIA District 26 championship race on October 8, the Wildcat Harriers competed in the 35th annual North Carolina State Cross-Country Championship on Thursday, October 13.

Frank Ivey characteristically led the team but could only manage to place 24th. Ivey stayed with the lead pack through two miles, but he developed a painful side stitch shortly thereafter. He was unable to maintain contact during the last 2 1/2 miles of the 8-kilometer (5 miles) race.

“We, [the lead pack] went through two miles in under ten minutes; I felt fine,” said Ivey. The side stitch was so debilitating that he could only manage six minutes per mile for the remainder of the race. Ivey was still able to feel the stitch two days later. Greg Foreman finished second.For the team, Trey Jammes, Jim Rogers, and Frank Hague rounded out the scoring for the ’Cats, discovering yet another order of finish for the team’s top five. There’s more than one way to skin a ’Cat. (Please hold the groans.) Those not scoring for the team were Bob Watkins, Bob Tate, and Julian Wright. The ’Cats finished 8th out of 16, raising their record to 16-14-1. The ’Cats also discovered some good news during the week before the race. Because NAIA District 6 Champ St. Augustine has chosen to compete in the NCAA Division III championship, the ’Cats have been selected to represent the District in Kenosha, Wisconsin on November 19. Unfortunately, however, as is often a problem, the necessary funds for sending the entire team are not available at the present time. Ivey and Jammes will in all probability compete as individuals in the title race. (The Women’s team has qualified for the race as well.) So, the 'Cats have a lot on their mind as they prepare to face formidable competition tomorrow in Charlotte at the UNCC Invitational. Scheduled to compete are Western Carolina, UNCC (both of whom the ’Cats defeated in Raleigh), ASU, Radford, Virginia Commonwealth, and Johnson C. Smith.

Women’s Cross Country Wins NAIA Berth
By KERRY BROWN

Despite injuries and inexperience, the women’s cross country team has raced past a tough schedule and top-notch competitors to earn another berth in the NAIA National Meet. Effective coaching and team consistency have been major factors in their success. The Lady Wildcats conjured several victories from their bag of tricks, walking into the Riverside Country Club at Pembroke, N.C. and running out with their second consecutive NAIA District 26 Championship. Davidson scorched chief adversary St. Augustine by 17 points and buried Hampton Institute by 27 points. Sarah Patterson came out with the individual championship with a time of 18:28 in the five-kilometer race, and Tamara Foreman earned a second-place finish with a time of 18:39. Adelyn Lutz finished third for Davidson and seventh in the meet with a time of 19:19, and Jean Webb came in fourth for Davidson with 19:37. After trampling over their NAIA opponents, the Lady Wildcats had trouble with regional powerhouses N.C. State and UNC-Chapel Hill in the North Carolina Women’s Cross Country Championship, finishing fifth. Patterson finished 20th with a time of 19:34.1, and Foreman took 30th place with a time of 20:23.3. Unless the team’s plane doesn’t take a detour to some foreign country, the Lady Wildcats are on their way to at least a top-twenty finish in the Nationals. If the Lady Wildcats continue to run as they have so far, it is possible for the victory-starved women’s cross country team to capture the NAIA National Championship.

This week's Athlete of the Week is Sarah Patterson. She finished first in the women’s cross country meet at Pembroke State with a winning time of 18:28 over the three-mile course. In winning this meet, the team also won the District 26 championship and qualified for the national meet. For her role in leading the team to these accomplishments, Patterson was named to the All-District team.

Athlete Of The Week