The Davidsonian / Friday, May 6, 1983 13

By STEVE SOUD
Two of the best baseball books published in recent years are Roger Angell’s *Late Innings* and Thomas Boswell’s *How Life Imitates the World Series*. As the school year winds down and many of you head to the ballyards of Atlanta, Baltimore, Anaheim, Philadelphia, or even your own living room, I leave you with quotes by baseball greats (from the above books) to accompany you through the many games of summer.
It’s meant to be fun, you know.
—Bill Veeck

This ain’t a football game. We do this every day.
—Earl Weaver

The main idea is to win.
—John McGraw

Of all our games, baseball most tries the nerves and composure of its players.
—Roger Angell

I represent both the underdog and the overdog in our society.
—Reggie Jackson

I don’t think I would do as well in American baseball.
—Sadaharu Oh

Baseball is pitching, three-run homers, and fundamentals.
—Earl Weaver

LOOKING FOR EXTRA EARNINGS?

Welcome Wagon will train you for an earning opportunity as campus Welcome Representative. Call or write about our May training class. Represent local businesses, greet incoming students at DC during registration. Car a must; full and part-time openings.
Call 563-2388, or send name and telephone number to 5913 Charing Place, Charlotte, Charlotte 28211

CAMPUS WELCOME—EOE

ROTC

Gateway to a great way of life.

AIR FORCE ROTC

HERE ARE THE FACTS

What is a baseball fundamental? It’s any baseball act that is so simple that the man in the stands thinks, “I could do that. Why can't those big-leaguers?”
—Ken Singleton of the Orioles

I can sum up managing in one sentence. Everybody knows all the strategies. Nothing's changed in a hundred years. A manager’s job is to select the best players for what he wants done.
—Earl Weaver

The only thing Weaver knows about a curveball is that he couldn’t hit one.
—Jim Palmer

Sure, there are guys who will “fix” a bat for you. When it comes back it’s like a Mafia hit gun... no serial numbers.
—Craig Nettles

When Williams got a hit, he gave everybody a lecture on how he did it. When George gets a hit, he just says, “Gimme another one.” Williams was cold-blooded. Scientific. George is hot-blooded.
—Hal McRae comparing Ted Williams and George Brett

Your arm is your best friend, but you’ve got to treat it like it was your worst enemy. I swear, it'll get you if it can.
—Tom Seaver

When you're discussing something as important as your future, it’s urgent that you get the straight facts... and that you understand them. Air Force ROTC can be an important part of your future. We would like to outline some of the facts and invite you to look into gathering more.

It’s a fact: the Air Force needs highly-qualified, dedicated officers... men and women. It’s a fact: we need people in all kinds of educational disciplines. It’s a fact: we're prepared to offer financial help to those who can qualify for an Air Force ROTC scholarship.

Get together with an AFROTC representative and discuss the program. We'll give you all the facts. It could be one of the most important talks you've ever had with anyone about your educational plans.

Contact Capt. Paul Chambers at UNCC, Calvard 3059 (704) 597-4537

LOOKING FOR A PLACE TO TAKE AIR FORCE ROTC? LOOK HERE:

Not all colleges and universities have AFROTC programs. So call or visit one of the AFROTC detachments listed above and ask about the “Crosstown” program. You can work toward an Air Force commission and compete for a full scholarship. Check it out right away.

From the Locker Room: Baseball Quotes

The fans sitting up there are helpless. They can’t pick up a bat and come down and do something. Their only involvement is in how well you do. If you strike out or mess up out there, they feel they’ve done something wrong. You're all they’ve got. The professional athlete knows there's always another game or another year coming up. If he loses, he swallows the bitter pill and comes back. It’s much harder for the fans.
—Willie McCovey

Nobody likes to take down a monument and replace it with a K-Mart, but sometimes it has to be done.
—Joe Altobelli, Manager of the SF Giants, on benching Willie McCovey

He seems to have an obligation to hit.
—Lou Brock on Pete Rose

Baseball’s true secret is that, for those who appreciate and value it, it has no secrets.
—Tom Boswell

You can’t be afraid to stand naked before the crowd, because no one can ever master the game of baseball or conquer it. You can only challenge it.
—Lou Brock

It ain’t over ‘til it's over.
—Yogi Berra

God's Work Needs You!

Urgent: Christian organizations are suffering critical personnel shortages. Thousands of openings need to be filled now. All vocations, in the U.S. and overseas. Discover opportunities that fit you... contact Intercristo!

You'll receive a current list of openings that require your skills and experience. God's work needs you.

Contact Intercristo today: 1(800)426-1342 (Alaska, Hawaii, Washington state, (206) 546-7330).

Or return the coupon below.

Intercristo The Christian Career Specialists. P.O. Box 33487 Seattle, WA 98133

Please send me information on finding “my place” in God’s work.

Name

Address

City

24 hours a day for your convenience.