4 Friday, April 22, 1982 / The Davidsonian

Publications Board Approves Election Changes

By DAVID RESNIK

The Publications Board approved a proposal written by Jeff Mann that would change the method of selecting editors for campus publications from direct election by the student body to recommendation from an editor selection board. The proposal will be presented at the next SGA meeting.

The editors of all five campus publications signed the proposal except Hobart Park Co-editor Scot Myers. “I won't support anything that takes elections out of the hands of students,” he said.

According to the proposal, “There has not been a process which would guarantee that only experienced, qualified editors be selected.” The proposed Selection Board would consist of seven members: the editors of the five campus publications and two members chosen by the SGA. Because of the special status of the two largest publications, The Davidsonian and Quips and Cranks, three members of these two organizations would have voting membership on the Selection Board.

The Selection Board would solicit and screen applicants from the student body and recommend candidates to the Media Board, which has final control over all editorial appointments.

The proposal cited five basic reasons for the change:
“1. The posts are not political in nature. Holding a general election necessarily politicizes them.
“2. There is virtually no mechanism for preventing unqualified candidates from being elected.
“3. An outside election undermines any internal structure a publication staff might develop.
“4. The student body as a whole does not necessarily know what it takes to be a good publications editor.
“5. An outside election could tend to split a staff which needs to be able to work together.”

Semesters (Continued from page 1)

Religion professor R. David Kaylor said that the Faculty is concerned “that 14 weeks isn’t enough contact time for classes and that 15 weeks would be more advantageous.” Kaylor said the 15-week semester would be no great problem in the spring, but it would be more difficult in the fall — the academic year would have to begin in mid-August.

Although the Faculty delegated the fine-tuning of the academic calendar to the Faculty Executive Committee, another Faculty vote must be taken on changing the semester length to 15 weeks. The original vote setting the semester length at 14 weeks “was narrowly approved,” according to Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann. The new business difficulties may be enough to “tip the scales in favor of the 15-week semester,” he said.

“LOOKING FOR A PLACE TO TAKE system is not favored by an overwhelming majority of the Faculty,” said Kaylor. Students are still expected to carry a load of nine courses per year and will have the choice of which term to carry five courses and which to carry four.

The five-day exam period is not included in the length of terms. SGA President Hunter Monroe spoke at Tuesday's Faculty meeting on behalf of a seven-day exam period, but according to Kaylor, “more than five days get problematic in the...fall term.” The situation would be compounded if the Faculty passes the 15-week semester. Kaylor said he urged Monroe to put his proposal into a formal petition. Zimmermann expects the issues concerning semesters to be settled soon, allowing departments and the Registrar's office to begin planning for their fall 1984 implementation.

AIR FORCE ROTC? LOOK HERE:
Not all colleges and universities in the United States have Air Force ROTC programs. And we recognize that many people want to enter the two or four-year program and are looking for a school where they can take it. Call or visit one of the AFROTC detachments listed above and ask about the “Crosstown” program. Here are some more facts that may be of interest:
- Courses are open to college men and women.
- Full scholarships are available that pay tuition, books, and lab and incidental fees, plus $100 a month during the school year.
- You work toward an Air Force commission upon graduation.
- You have an opportunity to serve your country as an Air Force officer.
- You don't have to be enrolled in these schools to attend the AFROTC program there.

Check it out right away. You'll find a brand new kind of opportunity. For more information, call or write:

ROTC Gateway to a great way of life.

The Faculty earlier asked the Educational Policies Committee to iron out the weekly and daily schedules. That report was given to the Faculty Tuesday and calls for 50-minute classes Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, and 75-minute classes Tuesday and Thursday. Humanities would continue to meet five days a week for 50 minutes. The EPC will discuss opposition raised by one of the language departments on Monday.

ATO won a pizza and beer dinner for its efforts for donating the most blood. Thirty percent of ATO’s house members gave blood. ROTC also awarded randomly drawn prizes to biology professor David Grant, religion professor William Mahony, and Davidson students Ross Thayer and Gerry Meyer. Tom Addis coordinated the blood drive for the American Red Cross. George Thompson was the officer in charge, David Earhardt handled publicity, Fred Ehrman was the director of personnel, and Will Donovan was in charge of coordinations.

According to Registrar Richard Burts, work has been done with semester scheduling, but “nothing has been nailed down. The only thing that is sure is that we're going to semesters,” he said. The credit-hour system seems “very unlikely,” according to Burts. The Semesters Planning Committee considered the system but decided not to recommend the change to the Faculty. “It would be fair to say that the credit-hours

ROTC Collects Blood
The Davidson ROTC Department collected 271 pints of blood during the spring blood drive on Monday and Tuesday, a three-point increase over last spring's drive. The Scabbard and Blade Society of the ROTC, in conjunction with the American Red Cross, sponsored the drive. Unlike last year’s drive, ROTC held the drive over a two-day period in order to eliminate long waits. Twenty-three people who attempted to give blood were refused for various medical reasons. Thirty people donated blood for the first time.