a = Democracy
By JEFFREY MANN ’84

It’s a fairly common assumption that the best way to choose the leader of any organization is always to hold an election. It isn’t. As heirs to the democratic tradition, we automatically want to hold a general election for our leaders, from playground dodge-ball captains to union leaders and heads of state. Davidson College has adopted this view and applied it to almost every position of power, whether appropriate or not. For political posts which represent the whole campus and may involve conflicting views and philosophies, it’s great; so offices in the SGA and the Union should be elected. Posts involving leadership of a smaller organization, even if it serves the whole campus, should not.

One of the silliest upcoming races is for freshman advisors. They are mainly responsible for organizing freshman orientation, as well as helping to train and select hall counselors. Two years ago, one of my hall counselors was running for the post. I asked him then why this is an elective post. He didn’t know, and I still don’t. Is there any need to politicize or make a contest out of this primarily administrative position?

As it stands now, the Y-Student Service Corps elections are much the same. While the Y may have at one time been a big part of the political and social life of the campus, the organization and the College have changed. The Y is now little different from any other campus organization. We don’t elect Outing Club officers or football team captains in a general election, why the Y? I have no idea what it takes to be a good Y officer. Why is it up to people like me to decide who will lead that group? The election might just as well be internal now: Every Y election in recent history has gone uncontested, with the members of the Y deciding who will run for the officers. The illusion of a general election is a bit of a farce. Incoming Y president Doug Ammar has told me that they plan to make changes which might change the scope of the organization, and the offices may be more conducive to elections soon. We'll have to see, but I doubt this organization will become terribly political again.

All of the student publications could be hurt by this unnecessary politicking. A political arena is hardly the place to choose an editor for a literary magazine. Hobart Park and the Miscellany editors should be just about the least political posts on campus. Election campaigns and literature do not serve each other very well. The yearbook and Wildcat Handbook might involve a little more politics, but still not enough to justify a general election.

The Davidsonian probably stands to lose the most from this system. It is the most visible organization, one of the toughest to run, and most susceptible to pressure since it makes people mad most often. Luckily, the paper has been able to avoid most of the possible disaster of an election, but just because it hasn’t crashed yet doesn’t mean we should keep a flawed system. I’ve been a section editor for over two years and had planned on running for editor-in-chief this year. But I’ve decided not to run for several of the same reasons the post shouldn’t be elective.

The SGA By-laws set the term for Davidsonian editor at one year, starting after Christmas break. For various reasons, beginning with a senior year Center thesis, I can’t serve this kind of term. Steve Soud, who also considered running, has the same problem with an honors thesis. Since the term revolves around the election, there is little flexibility for potential editors who can’t serve exactly the specified term. Therefore, qualified people can’t even be considered for the job.

Since virtually anybody can run for editor, virtually anybody can be elected. The Media Board is charged with assuring that candidates are “qualified.” The Board has adopted a very broad interpretation of this criterion and has not disqualified anyone in the last three years, even if they have never set foot in The Davidsonian office ormet any staff members. It is entirely possible for an inexperienced, untried, and totally inadequate editor to be elected under the present system. This should be more than unlikely; it should be impossible. Even if all the candidates are qualified and come from within the staff, the paper could still be hurt. Pitting staff members against each other can’t help but divide a group which above all needs to work together well and not drive off personnel. The paper will suffer if it is yearly split into several camps.

The Davidsonian desperately needs some sort of internal structure. The paper should have a mechanism for bringing in new writers, training them, and letting them move up in responsibility and, we hope, prestige. Continuity from year to year would greatly improve how we operate. There’s little incentive to work up from proofreader to news editor if there will be a whole new hierarchy next year. Having the editor selected by outside election undermines any structure we work to develop from within. We’re beginning to move toward this goal, but having essentially to start over every year allows for little growth.

Many will say that The Davidsonian editor must be elected because it is such a political post. I say it is a political post because it is elected. It is true that The Davidsonian serves the students and is responsible to them, just as any newspaper answers to its public. But a paper in the real world doesn’t have an elected editor. A newspaper is separate from all that political election business, or it should be. So should we.

There are many factors that go into being able to run a paper, most of which are lost on the general public. Much as I don’t know what makes a good Y-Corps officer, most people don’t know what makes a good editor. Never having worked on a newspaper, they can’t be expected to. Rather than basing their choice on technical knowledge or journalistic integrity, the voters go for whom they know and like personally, or think will give more coverage to their own interests. They must; they literally don’t know any better.

As an alternative to elections I would suggest a selection board of past editors, staff, any interested students, and SGA and Media Board members. This system already works well for advisory council positions. Though not the most visible, the student members of the Educational Policy Committee, Finance Advisory Council, and Student Conduct Council are some of the most influential students on campus. They affect students much more than the Wildcat Handbook editor.

Right now the Media Board has the power to appoint editors, but has declined to use it in favor of general elections. As it stands now, the Media Board is too small a group to do the appointing. Faculty and staff have too large a representation on the Board and The Davidsonian staff is not represented at all. This combination could be dangerous if it appointed the editor.

Recently, the Media Board established a Publications Board, one of whose main jobs will be to nominate two qualified candidates for each post to the Media Board for approval. This step is exactly in the wrong direction. Now we are promoting competition for the sake of competition. We have lost sight of the real purpose of elections: to choose the most qualified person. For years, several editorships have gone uncontested. Now, the Publications Board will presumably search for someone willing to run to provide token opposition. I cannot see how this will be a positive step.

The staff of the publication, who knows what is involved, should have the greatest say in the decision, but not all of it. The outgoing editor should not arbitrarily be able to appoint the new one, nor should the staff alone decide. The Davidsonian is responsible to the students of the College and should not become a monarchy or a closed club. However, to leave the decision up to those totally uninvolved with the operation of the paper is to leave it open to possible disaster.

Jeff Mann is a junior Center journalism major from Atlanta, Georgia.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 January 1983 19