4 Friday, October 28, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Edward Pearce Criticizes Peace Movement

By KERRY HOLBROOK,
ROXANNA GUILFORD,
and ELIZABETH WINTERMUTE

“Peace movements are mistaken and wrong,” said Edward Pearce to a Davidson audience Tuesday evening.

Pearce addressed a group of about forty students on the subject “British and European Peace Movements, The Resistable Rise of the European Surrender Lobby” Tuesday night in the Morrison Room.

The British journalist touched on a variety of issues, including the causes of World War I. He suggested two main points, that the Peace Movement is not indicative of public opinion in Western Europe, and while the pattern of foreign relations in the United States has been non-aggressive, it is now crucial that the United States becomes aggressive, decisive, and consistent especially when dealing with the Soviet Union.

When discussing his first point concerning the peace movement, Pearce pointed to recent elections in England and Germany. Both former English labor Prime Minister Callahan, and former Chancellor Schmidt of West Germany are in favor of deployment of the Pershing II’s and cruise missiles scheduled for deployment in December. “We want the missiles,” said Pearce. “It is a myth to believe that the United States forced them upon England and Germany. You can protest as much as you want,” Pearce went on, but “an election is an election, is an election... There is no vast simmering feverish public opinion crying out for peace.”

When questioned about the risk involved in deploying the Pershing II's, which are considered to be first strike weapons, in West Germany (giving the Soviet Union four to six minutes response time to false alarms caused by computer foul up), Pearce replied that in his opinion the Pershing II’s are not first strike weapons. In order for a weapon to be a first strike weapon, he held, a country would have to be able to win a war with it. Furthermore, due to the non-aggressive nature of the U.S., the Soviets will not perceive the missiles to be first strike, thus the possibility of an accident is irrelevant.

Pearce also spoke of the connection that the Peace movement in Europe has with the world Peace Council which is controlled by the Communist Movement for Disarmament. He pointed out the fact that the last several meetings of The World Peace Council have been in Soviet bloc countries. The relationship which the European Peace Movement has with this council wipes out any credibility the movement might have had. Pearce strongly stated that one “must be something of a fool to play politics with the World Peace Council.” The European Peace Movement, he argued, is only hurting our chances for peace, which will come from the maintenance of a strong posture before the Soviets and the world.

The Soviets, Pearce maintains, are realists with a will to win. They will negotiate seriously only when they respect the United States, and that will be when the United States engages in aggressive power politics. Pearce traced American policies from the MacNamara freeze to the Carter administration stating that the United States has acted on the assumption that if we build, they build, if we stop, they stop. But, in reality, it became if we stop, they build. For example, when Carter “held out the olive branch to the Soviet Union,” they replied by building 200 SS 20's.

Pearce calls on the United States not to be fooled by the “hysterical” peace movement. The U.S. must act like Russia, he said. If not, then the United States will “flunk this test” and England and Europe will become vulnerable to becoming client states of Russia.

This stop for Pearce was the last of a three-week trip along the East Coast sponsored by the Industrial Council on education.

---

INTERESTED IN A MASTER'S DEGREE IN ACCOUNTING? BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION? PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION?

Discover Rice University’s Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Administration

October 3, 1983

For Further Information, Contact Careers Office

Please send an application and a brochure about Rice University’s JONES GRADUATE SCHOOL to:

NAME (please print)

ADDRESS

CITY STATE ZIP

COLLEGE DEGREE DATE

RICE UNIVERSITY JONES GRADUATE SCHOOL OF ADMINISTRATION P.O. BOX 1892 HOUSTON, TEXAS 77251 (713) 527-4893

Rice University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action institution

---

MAKE TRACKS FOR THE BEST EATIN’ ALL AROUND!

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’ bring along this money-savin’ coupon.

STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND ORANGE JUICE $1.29

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants through May 31, 1984.

© 1983 Hardee's Food Systems Inc

---

REGULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at participating Hardee's Restaurants through May 31, 1984.

© 1983 Hardee's Food Systems Inc