10 Friday, September 23, 1983/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

The Fall Of The House Of ATO

The second Patterson Court house in six months has announced that it will close at the end of the term. For ATO, a long battle of declining membership and financial instability has finally ended. In considering the meaning of this closing, some basic questions confront the College community, particularly Patterson Court: What will happen to the old ATO members? Could a similar fate befall other Court houses? How can the remaining Patterson Court houses prevent another closing? These are questions which appeared with the closing of ETC last spring, and they recur with ATO’s folding. The answer to all three involves one group, the students eating on Patterson Court. Useful solutions to these problems will be arrived at only if the closing of ATO may signal.

First, the 39 students eating at ATO will need to find new places to eat, and other houses stand to profit if they recognize the importance of keeping those students on the Court. It would be a shame to lose former eating house members to the Commons or independent dining; more students forego the Court all the time, a phenomenon which diminishes the Court each year. Houses should try at least to maintain the same number of students on the Court, and encouraging ATO members to join another house is a good way to accomplish this.

Next, houses must realize that they can suffer the fate of ATO; prosperous houses must avoid falling into complacency. It is easy to forget that ATO thrived a few years ago, the same way ETC did. As it turns out, it takes fairly little for a house to fold: a bad rush one or two years, a few dull parties, a loss of faith in the house. In contrast, maintaining a house requires enormous commitment. Because Patterson Court houses retain remarkable autonomy, the success — or failure — of a house depends solely on its members. Unlike many organizations at Davidson, an eating house cannot survive without considerable student support.

Finally, the future of Patterson Court is not altogether bleak. Houses which once faced rumors of folding are now stronger than ever; PAX is one such example. As the houses’ popularity fluctuates, so will their financial stability. But even in prosperity, all the houses on Patterson Court must remain in close contact, working together to protect the concept of small group dining. The Patterson Court Council is a group which can help to do this. By monitoring the financial stability of all the houses, the PCC can head off problems before they become chronic.

The fall of the house of ATO is a sad tale. The “fighting sheep” have lost their battle, but the house’s unique reputation as the hangout for Davidson’s most creative individuals — its artists, poets, journalists, musicians, and actors — will remain long after its members disperse. If the other houses can learn from ATO’s troubles, then perhaps some good will come of this closing. It is too bad, though, that a lesson in survival for the other houses comes at the expense of one of its own number.

LETTERS

Freeze Viable

To the Editor:

Though I concur with Scott Otto in his article “No Explanation Condones Soviet Act” that the KAL shooting is inexcusable, he made several errors in his final statements. First, the faculty petition and student referendum of last spring was a moral statement on nuclear arms and basis for further thought and action. It was not a direct call for a bilateral nuclear freeze. Furthermore, he was incorrect in his assessment that the Nuclear Freeze relies on a trust of the Soviets. A nuclear freeze, as I understand it, would be sufficiently verifiable such that the US would not be in a precarious position of having to rely on Soviet assurances. Any agreement on nuclear armscontrol] that would be made between the USSR and the US should provide for necessary verification of the commitment as well as measures covering the accountability, or subsequent lack thereof, for both nations. In response to current interest and issues brought up in Mr. Otto’s article, the Davidson Peace Coalition will be sponsoring an open discussion on the Korean incident and its implications this Sunday, with the help of Professors Wruck, Ortmayer, and Frederick. We encourage people to come with their questions and opinions.

Debby Williams
Davidson Peace Coalition

Amen
To the Editor:

Dear Scott Otto,

Amen, amen, and amen.

Matt Morris

Powder Kegs
To the Editor:

In an article appearing in last week’s Davidsonian, Scott Otto justly expresses his personal outrage and the outrage of many concerning the actions of the Soviet Union involving the destruction of the Korean airliner. There are no words which can fully express the hideousness and barbarity of the Soviets’ actions. However, in his last paragraph he commits an error common to detractors of the nuclear freeze movement. He implies that freeze proponents maintain a naive trust of the Soviet Union and that they “hold an accommodating view of the Soviet Union.” The nuclear freeze movement proposes an immediate, mutual, and verifiable freeze upon the production, testing, and deployment of nuclear weapons. This does not involve blind faith or naive trust, but rather on-site inspections and satellite surveillance. It is my belief that this latest atrocity on the part of the Soviet Union underscores the urgent need of a nuclear arms limitation agreement. Angry and threatening rhetoric only serves to heighten the tension and antagonism already existing. We must act now to defuse the “powder kegs” of our nuclear arsenals.

Jerry Cook

Red Or Dead
To the Editor:

I read with interest Scott Otto’s editorial concerning the shooting down of the Korean airliner. He made some good points, especially when he called into question the appropriateness of a nuclear freeze, whether unilateral or bilateral. The Soviets have consistently used arms agreements to improve their position vis-a-vis the United States, and there is no evidence that this would be different with the freeze. Also, considering the vast involvement of KGB front groups (the World Peace Council and its U.S. affiliate, the U.S. Peace Council, to name but two) in propagandizing the freeze in this country, and given the strong evidence that the KGB isn’t doing this due to a heartfelt desire to bring about the freeze, there are other reasons to believe that a freeze is not in our interests. I do, however, feel that Mr. Otto is a bit quick in criticizing Soviet citizens for not acting out the dictum “better dead than red.” Many Americans use this phrase because they are aware of both the evil embodied in Communism/Socialism and the much preferable alternative, Capitalism/freedom. Soviet citizens are unaware of the atrocities committed in their country in the name of preserving the state, and are also unaware of alternatives to their condition. The KGB is adept at using fear and disinformation to keep these people in line. The proper emotion to feel for Soviet citizens is sympathy. Stanislav Levchenko, a Major in the KGB until his defection to this country several years ago, summed it up well when he said, “The Soviet people are the enemy of no one. The KGB is the enemy of everyone [from John Barron’s KGB Today: The Hidden Hand].”

Eric Hill

Letters Policy
The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere to certain guidelines: neatly typed, signed letters must be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday. Please include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors. We reserve the right to edit letters for length or clarity.