R.E.M. Swung the Room
By CLARE ECKERT

When us northerners come to Davidson, we’ve been forewarned. We’re prepared for any and all sorts of culture shock, and
hopefully we’ve had a three-week crash course in the proper use of “y’all.” But there’s one thing that no amount
of lecturing can prepare us for: Carolina mud. This phenomenon has no easy introduction. In fact, the more extreme our
first encounter is, the better—we’ll learn how to deal with it faster. It helps if the week preceding our arrival
is one of constant rain. It also helps if they’ve just built something and haven’t laid the sod around it
yet. We look at it and think, yech, how ugly. Look at that red dirt. Little do we know...

Still innocent of the real nature of Carolina clay, we merrily slog through it on our way to classes and
meals. We can’t avoid splashing a little here and there, but it’s no big deal. After all, mud just brushes
off when it’s dry, right? The mud snickers. It giggles with glee. It hums under its sticky breath while we
proceed to get it everywhere.

By KEN POOLEY ’85

R.E.M., for those of you living under a rock, is a new band from Athens, Ga. They play an infectious
brand of pop music. Their EP, Chronic Town, has received extensive airplay around the country, and even Jonathan Glance must
admit it’s the best he’s heard in the last month or two (it was even the number one album in
Maine for 1982). In spite of all this good stuff, they came to Davidson.

Before a sell-out crowd in the 900 Room, R.E.M. came to do what they do best—perform. The people I talked
to who saw this show and R.E.M.’s fall performance at the Milestone reached a consensus that Saturday night was a
notch below the supercharged magic of the Milestone gig, but still an incredible show by any standard. The band made
a great first impression on people who hadn’t seen them before. I think the best word to describe R.E.M.’s stage
show is kinetic! Michael “Watch Me Dance Like Jell-O” Stipe, lead singer, has to be one of the most exciting
performers on stage today (second, possibly, only to The Talking Heads’s David Byrne, but Byrne has a choreographer!), and he
definitely ranks first in the biomorphic interpretive dance category. Bassist Mike Mills showed some signs of life, too, but his
guitar pickin’ ’n’ thrashin’ impressed me the most (I was right in front of his monitor and amp so I
could hear him real well). Along with Peter Buck on lead guitar, R.E.M. manages to put up a pretty powerful
wall of sound, a wall with a lot of great textures as the two guitars work on their lines. If
I have any complaint, it is that the vocals were mixed in a little low. This is partly the “R.E.M.
sound” and partly where I was in the room, but the mix seemed insufficient. The band played a good selection
of their repertoire, mixing in new songs with those from the EP. I was most impressed with...Radio-Free Europe and Wolves,
Lower, both of which came off stupendously. It might be interesting to note that, though many people pin a Byrds
influence on the band, or take the more trendy approach and claim the Velvet Underground or Captain Beefheart’s Trout Mask
album as the influence behind R.E.M., the band doesn’t really encourage this; Michael Stipe says he hasn’t really heard either
the Byrds or Captain Beefheart. For those interested, Stipe is a Television (the Band) / Tommy Verlaine / Patti Smith
/ old country western fan. All things considered, R.E.M. was possibly the best thing to happen since Davidson beat Chapel
Hill in 1926 to win the state football championship. It will be interesting to see what the new album (due
for release on March 29) is like; good, bad, or otherwise, I’m sure we'll see more of R.E.M. in the
future.

We remain blissfully unaware of the danger until the sun comes out and our socks dry. And then—the realization comes
like a kick in the stomach: it doesn’t come out. We’re not talking about just brushing it off your cords.
We’re talking about Chlorox not touching this stuff. Those socks will look like fishnet underwear before they'll be white again.

Ok. It’s a little more serious than we thought. We go outside to assess the situation. By now (after a
few weeks of sun) the clay is the consistency of set concrete. We kick idly at a clump of clay
perched on the edge of a petrified footprint. It doesn’t move. We kick harder. Not even a tremor. Before realizing
how ridiculous we look we’re flailing away at, winding up and letting fly. The concrete remains unmoved. Passing natives glance
sideways at each other with an “it’s another greenhorn” look. Meanwhile we’re figuring out where all these bricks came from.
But we’re still in control. It’s perfectly simple: we will just not ever get any more mud on us (except
for the bottoms of our shoes) for the duration. We resign ourselves to the mud’s existence—but not its supremacy. The
next time it rains we haul out our oldest jeans, our heaviest, crudiest shoes, and proceed down the hill; leaping
daintily from grass-clump to grass-clump like demented mountain goats. We walk straddle-legged, arms outspread, because we’ve learned just how slick
that dull-red, gleaming slime can be. We develop a strange shuffling gait in long grass as we try to remove
the worst of it before tracking the rest into our rooms. To no avail. We still find mud on our
knees, the seat of our pants, our elbows, etc. To keep from going insane we decide to ponder its usefulness.
There are the bricks, for one thing. And how would the Fijis entertain Basement Rich without mud to smear on
the walls (and floor and showers and sinks)? Just think—years from now, when I’m a great-grandmother, I’ll dig out one
of my old socks from times long past, and its rust-red color will prompt memories of good old Davidson to
bore my great-grandchildren with.

THE DAVIDSONIAN / 14 February 1983
