From the Study Room

Intramural College Bowl moves down to the wire

BY MARVIN OVERBY ’83

Following many weeks of intense head-to-head competition, the 20 teams in this year’s Intramural College Bowl Competition ended the regular season on December 13 and began tournament action on Monday, January 3. After playing four regular season games, the top two teams in each of the four divisions advanced to the postseason tourney.

In the perennially weak National League East, the Omniscients (also known as Diana and the Reaganauts) and BBC Again, both 3-1, advanced. In the powerful NL West, Wrath of the Romulans (4-0) and Herpes Simplex IV (3-1) moved into the tournament. The American League East was represented by Quasi-Total Absence (3-1) and Harding House (2-2). The AL West saw Buzz Aldrin and Going to a Go-Go, both 3-1, beat out the odds makers’ pre-season favorite, I Phelta Thi.

Tournament Play

In Monday night’s first round of double elimination tournament action, nine games were played. In the initial pairings, the Romulans trounced BBC, Harding House came from behind to squeak by Go-Go, Herpes edged the Omniscients, and Quasi crushed Buzz. In losers’ bracket games, BBC bowed out to Go-Go and Buzz finished off the Omniscients. In the winners’ bracket, Harding House was held to 5 second-half points as the Romulans extended their winning streak to 6 games, and Herpes upset number one ranked Quasi 320-145. In the last game of the night, in the losers’ bracket, Go-Go avenged an earlier loss to Harding House and moved into the semi-finals of the losers’ bracket.

The Final Five

After Monday’s nine games, five teams are left in the intramural tournament. The Association of College Bowl Writers has ranked them as follows:

No. 1—Herpes Simplex IV (5-1)—A savvy and experienced team, this group of ATO-type radicals is impressive. Led by seniors John Lusk and Jeff Dempsey, the team is balanced and well-rounded—as all good Zeros should be. Look for them to settle a score with the Romulans and go all the way. Coach’s Corner: Control the offensive boards and pray for a miracle.

No. 2—Wrath of the Romulans (6-0)—Paced by League MVP Chris Blake, the Romulans are making people forget about their more publicized hallmates Captain Watson’s Beef Trust. The Romulans are strong in pop-culture and—since they are all sophomores—anything taught in Humes. Coach’s Corner: Put a diamond and one around Blake and control the tempo.

No. 3—Quasi-Total Absence (4-2)—This is a free-agent team composed of all seniors. Featuring former Guttersnipe John Odell and former Turtlewoman Laura Singleton, Quasi has the most impressive offensive stats in the league—including a 300-20 drubbing of fifth-ranked Buzz Aldrin. Everyone on the team can score, but like most free agents, they are erratic. Coach’s Corner: You have to beat them at their own game—the interrupt. Also, making fun of Laura’s laugh and JO’s height might help.

No. 4—Going to a Go-Go (5-2)—Also known as Lee McCormick’s Revenge, this is PAX’s contribution to the final five. Tim McGaughey and Ann Meador lead this rag-tag assortment of Rolling Stone fans. They are scrappy and smart—for their ages, that is. Coach’s Corner: Take them seriously. Play Meador to pull the ball and keep the infield at double-play depth.

No. 5—Buzz Aldrin (4-2)—Featuring three former Hi-Q players from East Meck, Buzz is a team with a future. Unfortunately for them, in the present, they must find a way to beat Quasi in their rematch. Coach’s Corner: Talk to Quasi.

Intercollegiate College Bowl

On the senior circuit, the intercollegiate 'Cats won their first tournament of the year at the Berry College Invitational in November. Team captain Brad Mullis was named tournament MVP. During the coming weeks, the team will travel to the UNCC Invitational in Charlotte (Jan. 12) and the regional tournament in Knoxville (February 10-12).

Video Warrior Surveys Games

What’s hot, what’s not in video amusement

By MATT MORRIS ’86

Video games: the pet peeve of parents, materialists, and psychiatrists everywhere is also a national habit that swallows millions in quarters each day. The need for a video fix hasn’t escaped Davidson campus and this week’s edition of the Video Warrior takes a look at some of the games in and around the College community. Also included for those beginners seeking to improve their game are some hot tips from established pros.

1) Ms. Pac-Man—The Video Warrior flashes into the Sony café, and through the onion ring haze finds the best of video games—Ms. Pac-Man, wearing a bow on her smooth yellow head. The object of the game is to eat all the dots on the screen while avoiding the ever-present threat ofSome treacherous ghosts with “innocent” names like “Speedy” and “Sue.” The graphics are colorful with Ms. Pac-Man munching away at the dots on the screen in an often dramatic attempt to clear the board. Periodically, fruits-for-bonus-points bounce into action. Also, in between screens, there is a romantic video interlude, beginning with “The Meeting between Ms. Pac-Man and Pac-Man” and ending with “Baby Pac-Man.” This video game seems to be an illuminated moral manifesto for the 80s because there is no “Wedding of the Pac-Mans” in evidence. Senior Mary Carpenter, quarter-a-day Ms. Pac-Man player, says, “I used to be really down on video games—I thought they messed with little kids’ minds.” Now, however, she has seen video games in a different light and admits, “They are just plain fun.” Many sought out Ms. Pac-Man as a relief to her strenuous exam schedule in the spring of ’82 and have been hooked ever since.

2) Dig Dug—Now the Video Warrior moves over to another seat in the snack bar to examine a different type of video game entitled Dig Dug. Dig Dug is a quiet and unobtrusive game and that’s precisely why Freshman high-scorer Otto Ferrene likes it. “Dig Dug isn’t like the other games,” says Otto. The object of Dig Dug is to carefully maneuver your man through underground caves, killing an assortment of monsters with names like “Pooka” and “Fygar” (at least they sound more hideous than “Sue”). Otto’s main strategy is to keep a distance from the creatures as long as possible and try to drop rocks on them from above. Fruit plays an important part in the game as well, for when a player drops two rocks, a produce appears on the screen that can be consumed in much the same manner as Ms. Pac-Man would eat something. Dig Dug is a clever game, but recently there have been complaints that the machine in the Union Café is faulty, so be careful!

3) Asteroids—This golden oldie, while decreasing in popularity, has been in the Café for over two years. Asteroids is (or was) a revolutionary video game because of its complex graphics. The object of Asteroids is to carefully maneuver your spaceship through a field of rocks, shooting them as you go. The more you hit a particular rock, the smaller it gets until ultimately the asteroid disintegrates. Upon destroying all rocks, a new wave of asteroids is hurled at your spaceship all over again. James Rozzelle, a junior at Davidson, and retired Asteroids player said he gave up the game, “When it interfered with (my) sex life.” Rozzelle was once known for his astounding ability to destroy asteroids at an alarming pace. Those days are over, Rozzelle insists, and he denounces video games in general as evil. “By playing Asteroids I channeled all my sex drive into the machine and then didn’t have any left,” Rozzelle said. James advises all beginners at the game to be sure they have plenty of sex drive before playing. “What with the ‘thrust’ button and all.”

4) Donkey Kong—The Video Warrior now leaves the Student Cafeteria and moves into the Belk dorm. Amid pubescent Freshmen stands the most popular video game in the world—Donkey Kong. The mysterious title has seemingly nothing to do with the game itself, a King-Kong type situation where one moves his Italian-looking character (named Mario, of course) up a series of ladders to save a girl from the clutches of a mad ape. However, it has been hypothesized that the “Kong” part of the title game indicates the aforementioned ape and the “Donkey” indicates anyone who plays this game. Whether there is any truth to this is not known, but it is a good game, filled with clever effects (particularly a mind-boggling elevator sequence) and it’s worth your quarter. Senior George Hatfield thinks Donkey Kong is worth lots of quarters and plays it religiously. He is quite good, and tells novices “the only way to do well at Donkey Kong is to spend lots of money—there’s no real strategy other than staying alive.” Aside from the initial threat of the monkey, “Mario” is also attacked by a constant barrage of barrels which he can escape by either jumping over them or hitting them with a hammer which unfortunately, has a short life. It is the Video Warrior’s opinion that Donkey Kong is the best game on campus, providing loads of action, suspense, even romance, and all for a quarter.

Next week: A look at more games around the campus plus inside coverage of some hot new video games like Popeye. (That cult figure has done everything by now).

THE DAVIDSONIAN/7 January 1983