10 Wednesday, December 5, 1984 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
Kevin Horan, Business Manager
John Gathings, Production Manager
Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor
Will Thomason, Advertising Manager
David McCurry, Circulation Manager
Ross Holt, Editor

Security

It seems several groups and individuals have become concerned about Davidson’s security set-up. Various officials are tossing around ideas about
escort services, different patrol patterns for campus security, and even a system which would allow students to live in locked
dorms. Furthermore, those officials who deal directly with students on a daily basis are now urging students to lock their
doors, despite the catalog’s assertion that locked doors are not necessary here.

Beyond the common sense precautions available to every student (locking room doors, keeping to well-traveled and lighted areas at night,
and so on), preventative measures will require organized — perhaps even administrative — action. The simplest measure, perhaps, would be
to redesign the patrol patterns of campus security officers, as Dean of Students Will Terry and Housing Director Bill Bolding
have suggested. Higher profile policemen, moving frequently through known areas of trouble, would be more likely to observe suspicious activity
before events become dangerous.

The SGA Security committee’s escort idea is also a relatively easily instituted measure. No escort system, however, can be at
every place from which every person needs to depart. The system needs to include more than merely the library and
the outer dormitories. To work effectively, it needs a central set-up to which anyone needing a security escort could call.

These remedies, however, may not be responsive to the irrational and unpredictable nature of the intrusions they seek to prevent.
More systematic measures are available, but these require more resources and concerted administrative action. Administrations, by their nature, require a
long, plodding decision process. The much-talked-about card-lock system (in which dorm residents have a card which allows them entry to
their locked dorm) is effective, but its applicability to Davidson’s situation needs serious discussion. Would all students be able to
enter any dorm, or would students only be able to enter their own dorms? The latter option would impose a
striking, undesirable, and arguably unnecessary change on Davidson’s lifestyle.

Essentially, students and administrators need to decide the security problem’s seriousness and then address it with appropriate measures. Currently, the
mechanism for doing that does not exist. Many people see a problem, and the options available to solve it. Needed
now is a way to apply the right option to the right problem.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of
the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates.
Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Ted Wilson, Assistant News Editor, Ginger Broaddus, Richard Cloudt, Andrea Diedrich, Chris Fisher, Roxanna Guilford, Tom Schilling, Chandon
Sinlia, Lee White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson, Chris Hughes, Jill Boyette

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Craig Detweiler, Thurston Hatcher, Stephen Mank, Ann Meador, Matt Morris, Samuel Scott, Treeby Williams

Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Assistant Sports Editor; Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley

Photography Staff: Christian Harberts, Assistant Photography Editor, Brad Brechtelsbauer, Jill Boyette, Phillip Dennis, Kevin Horan, Warriner Inge, Rocky Kmiecik, Bruce
von Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Joanneke Brentjens, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Brooke Knight, Pauline Rhodes

Compositors: BobbyDownie, Mitch Hall, Anne Lambert, Lisa Lano, Martha Yeide, jh class schedule, I swear I think the Sun rises
twenty minutes later.

To the Editors:

Once again this summer, a number of Davidson students will have the opportunity to work and study in Washington, D.C.,
and receive academic credit for their efforts. The Davidson in Washington program, sponsored by the Department of Political Science, will
enable twelve to sixteen students to experience first-hand the excitement, frustration, and energy of the nation’s capital. Each student will
work as an intern in a Washington area office and take part in a seminar conducted by a member of
the Davidson political science department.

Last summer’s internships were a diverse lot, with students working in congressional offices, government agencies, and interest group offices. Specific
examples included internships with Common Cause, the Committee to Save the ABM Treaty, The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, the offices
of Senators Lawton Chiles and Lloyd Bentsen, the National Gallery of Art, and the Department of Health and Human Services.

The seminar, which will meet twice weekly in the evenings, will include frequent presentations by speakers from the Washington community.
Guest speakers for the 1984 program ranged the gamut from congressional elections to Central American policy. Three members of the
House of Representatives met with Davidson students, and presentations included an issue briefing by an expert from the Democratic Policy
Committee, a media consultant, a well-known lawyer-lobbyist, and James Fallows, author and frequent contributor to Atlantic magazine. The topic for
this year’s seminar, which will be conducted by political science Professor Harris Proctor, is “American Policy Toward Africa.”

Students participating in the program will live in furnished apartments on the campus of Georgetown University. Georgetown, a unique community
within the larger city, is convenient to the Washington business district and an exciting place to spend a summer. The
students will be responsible for their own transportation and meals, though public transit and kitchen facilities in the apartments help
with these necessities.

Interested students should have at least a 2.5 GPA and have completed a course in American, international, or African politics.
Those who are interested but have not taken one of the above courses may qualify by completing a course in
one of these areas during the spring term. Though the program is intended primarily for current sophomores and juniors, under
exceptional circumstances applications of freshmen will be considered.

Successful completion of the program will earn each student two course credits: a letter grade credit for the seminar and
a pass-fail credit for the internship. Questions about Davidson in Washington should be directed to Professor Proctor, to any member
of the political science department, or to any of the students who completed the program last summer. Information sheets and
application forms are available from Professor Proctor in Chambers 217. Completed applications must be submitted to the Department of Political
Science by December 14, 1984.

Dr. Thomas Kazee

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere to
these four guidelines:
1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2) We require that letters be neatly typed.
3) We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.
4) We reserve the right not to print letters that:
a) function as advertisements;
b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes;
c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in other letters printed on the same topic.
