Anne Lambert

For the past year and a half, I have been involved in the Y Student Service Corps in a variety of ways. Last year, as Publicity Coordinator and Community Liaison, I was responsible for creating the Y-SSC bulletin board in Chambers, as well as advertising the various activities of the Y to students and the Davidson community. My responsibilities as Secretary have included not only the standard communications duties of letter-writing and typing the Y newsletter, but also working closely with the president and vice-president to organize and carry out projects such as Town Day, the Y-SSC slide show, and the Y brochure. Although the majority of my involvement has taken place on an administrative level, I often have the opportunity to participate in the individual programs, helping to organize Hunger Awareness Week and the CROP Walk, and filling in at the Day Care Center.

If elected, I hope to continue the present growth of the Y as a viable campus organization. I believe that the current administration worked to unite the various Y-SSC projects under a service umbrella that would provide a support group for individuals and their programs. I saw the Y grow in membership and campus recognition, partly due to my own efforts as a Y officer. I want to strengthen the Y as a cohesive organization, while continuing to meet the service needs of the campus and community.

SPAGHETTI
100% Durham Wheat
OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE
FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD
PARMESAN—ROMANO CHEESE
SALAD BAR
45 Items
FRESH GREEN VEGETABLES
DELICIOUS FRUITS
FLAVORFUL MEATS
RICH DRESSINGS
TASTY CHEESES
WINE
CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE
DESSERT—TEMPTING HAWAIIAN

ALL FOR $4.89
BUFFET —ALL YOU CAN EAT—
Mooresville’s First And Finest Italian Restaurant
KING Of PIZZA
241 SOUTH BROAD
663-3030
Meal Includes:
SPECIAL RATES FOR CHILDREN UNDER 12—25¢ PER YEAR
Lunch Buffet—Mon.-Sat., 11 AM-2:30 PM $2.99

As president, I would hope to address the immediate concern of the Gethsemane Tutoring Program, which will lose much of its funding next year, and the possible alternatives to this program. Through the acquisition of a telephone and a typewriter for the new Y office in the Union, I hope to establish the office as a service resource center within the Davidson community and Mecklenburg County. I want to increase campus participation even more by sponsoring more campus-wide social activities through the Y, such as parties, open retreats, and service projects, and leadership training for program coordinators and participants. I also see the need for an updated list of specific community service needs and suggested projects in the area that would be distributed to eating houses and campus groups, thereby increasing direct communication between the Y and the other campus service leaders.

The role of the Y-SSC President is to oversee all the individual service programs, targeting problem areas and supporting the program coordinators in their activities. The president is often called upon to serve as spokesperson for the Y and is the representative who is most often addressed by the community and contacted with service needs. This election, the first contested officer election in more than ten years, attests to the increased strength and validity of the organization. I am encouraged by my past participation in the Y and excited by the possibilities for next year. I would appreciate your support on Tuesday.

Tues., Wed. & Thurs.
PIZZA
Still Mooresville’s Finest
SPICY PEPPERONI
CANADIAN BACON
ITALIAN SAUSAGE
GROUND BEEF
FRESH DICED GREEN PEPPERS
SWEET ONIONS

SOUP OF THE DAY
CREAM OF POTATO
VEGETABLE BEEF STOCK
CHICKEN NOODLE
CHILI CON CARNE

PER PERSON

Wednesday, December 5, 1984/The Davidsonian

SGA Winter Term Elections To Be Held Tuesday
Lambert, Reynolds Vie For Y-Student Service Corps Presidency

Dee Reynolds

The Y Student Service Corps plays an important role in the lives of both Davidson students and people outside the campus. I wouldn't run for Y-SSC President if I didn’t think I could help it to maintain the level of excellence it has achieved during the past two years. I bring to this opportunity to serve Davidson's students and community a familiarity with leadership responsibilities and with the YSSC, but not a direct involvement in past Y...offices. As co-chairperson of the Chapel Committee this year, I have helped to organize religious and service-oriented activities for the campus. I say helped because leadership means more than directing people; it means working side-by-side with them. I’m also someone who has benefited from my involvement with the Y over the past three years, primarily in its Senior Citizens and CROP programs. I know what the Y does, but I’ve never served it in a leadership capacity before. The fresh perspective of an outsider can be helpful, though. I can come to the Y without too many biases about “the way things have always been done.” If elected, I will have to talk to each program coordinator individually about their dreams and problems. I'll need to visit each program in action. I am willing to suggest changes if necessary, but I recognize that change for the sake of change is bad. There are certain goals which the Y should not change. The Y should continue to seek increased participation by students. All of us are members of the YSSC. We must continue to see the Y as a training ground for lifetimes of service. Learning to serve should be an integral part of the “Davidson experience.” Most importantly, the Y must continue to be responsive to the needs of the students, community, and world it serves. The president cannot ensure a successful YSSC, but he or she can enable it. Responsibility must be shared with the vice-president and other officers, but ultimately it rests at the top. Besides working with the coordinators of the ongoing programs, the president and vice-president help with special events. They serve as liaisons between community groups like churches or charities and student groups looking for service projects. They organize Town Day each spring. The President serves on various campus committees like the Chaplain’s Ecumenical Council and represents the Y before the Administration. Most importantly, however, the President must encourage. He must encourage officers and coordinators to take their jobs seriously, but also to dream dreams of a better Y. He must encourage the community to let us help them. He must encourage students to look outside themselves to the needs of others. He must also be willing to be encouraged by others. Let me help you serve!

Reeves, deBeck, and Dana Lemon Seek Wildcat Handbook Editorship

Laurin de Beck and Alice Reeves

The Wildcat Handbook is most important and useful in easing the freshmen’s transition into the Davidson way of life. As editors of the Handbook, we believe that we can be of great help in familiarizing the freshmen with Davidson. We realize the importance of the Handbook to not only the freshmen but to everyone here on campus. We are planning an exciting, different, and fun handbook that will be filled with concise and useful information. We believe that as editors we are a good combination of experience (Laurin was editor and layout of her high school literary magazine which won an award in the Virginia High School League competition, Alice serves as Vice-President of Warner Hall and is coordinator of all Freshmen Activities). We are both artistic and creative and have some wonderful ideas for the handbook — and are eager for anyone else's ideas. We both will work hard to ensure everyone will find the 1985-86 Wildcat Handbook useful and informative. We would appreciate your support on Tuesday!

London School of Economics and Political Science

A chance to study and live in London. Junior-year One-Year programs. Postgraduate Diplomas. Master’s Degrees and Research Opportunities in the Social Sciences. The wide range of subjects includes Accounting and Finance, Actuarial Science, Anthropology, Business Studies, Economics, Econometrics, Economic History, European Studies, Geography, Government, Industrial Relations, International History, International Relations, Law, Management Science, Operational Research, Personnel Management, Philosophy, Population Studies, Politics, Regional and Urban Planning Studies, Sea-Use Administration, Social Policy, Social Planning in Developing Countries, Social Work, Sociology, Social Psychology, Systems Analysis, Statistical and Mathematical Sciences. Application forms from: Admissions Registrar, L.S.E., Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, England, stating whether undergraduate or postgraduate and quoting Room 10.