4 Friday, February 3, 1984 / The Davidsonian

“They formed Griffith Street Properties, which was incorporated in 1981 to ‘preserve, restore, renovate, upgrade, develop, and take all action
necessary to improve and promote the revitalization’ of the Griffith Street area, according to the articles of the corporation. The
articles say that any assets of the corporation will become property of the College after the group dissolves. Covington said
he would like to have some say in determining how the land would be used, but the ultimate decision was
the College’s. Covington suggested single or double occupancy housing similar to ‘the old fraternity court-type arrangement.’ Currie said other possibilities
included green space or a park.

Griffith Street Properties has had the land appraised, and has contacted the residents there, according to Kimbrough. He said they
have offered the appraised price plus a mark-up. The corporation has acquired four lots so far. In addition, Covington said,
it has purchased lots on Lakeside Avenue in a subdivision off Griffith Street, and has constructed two houses there. He
said they would swap lots with Griffith Street residents.

(continued from page 1)

One resident, Rosealyn Patterson, traded her Griffith Street house for one of the houses on Lakeside Avenue. Covington said the
trade was in her interest, and that the old lot was valued at $20,000 while the new lot is worth
$40,000. He said she paid no additional amount. Patterson’s old house was demolished recently.

Reaction

Davidson Mayor Nancy MacCormac said the town has not participated in the corporation's plan. She said the acquisitions were ‘a
very hot, emotional issue’ within the community. She said some residents had the feeling that ‘everyone else is in league
against them.’ She said some perceived the College as being behind the corporation. ‘The College represents something with a lot
of power,’ she noted. Currie acknowledged that the College would like to see the approach improved. ‘I think we're fortunate
to have someone with that vision,’ he said.

Covington emphasized that the College had no direct financial investment in the corporation’s activity, only ‘the token blessing of the
College.’

Gantt Speaks

(continued from page 1)

business and government led to ‘an enlightened self-interest’ characterized by a ‘social mentality.’ Gantt feels that this link led to
the important election of black Fred Alexander to the Charlotte City Council in 1965. This signaled a trend known as
tokenism. Tokenism allowed ‘some input of the minorities,’ Gantt said; blacks could then ‘sit on the inside, at least be
able to articulate a viewpoint that would otherwise not have been heard.’ Gantt stressed that ‘in theory that’s what people
wanted to have happen.’ The assassinations of King and Kennedy, however, led to feelings of disillusionment and confusion in the
mid-’70s, Gantt said. These feelings in Charlotte had two important results — an increase in the affirmative action programs and
tokenism, and the defeat of various bond issues by both blacks and ‘forgotten middle-class whites.’ Gantt stressed the power of
these ‘non-blacks treated like niggers’ in the political process of the period. These whites and the blacks ‘voted against the
bond issues because they never saw any of the benefits,’ Gantt stated.

Although Gantt refuses to endorse any Presidential candidate at the present time, he said, ‘I’m excited about Jesse Jackson, but
I’m not ready to endorse anyone. I want to endorse someone who has a breadth of experience, a strong commitment
to our social goals, and a chance to win.’

Athletic Forum

(continued from page 1)

women's basketball team’s poor record, Brown said this year’s problems resulted from overambitious scheduling. Sophomore Dana Lemon asked whether some
of the coaches with losing records should consider resigning or being fired. Frank responded that ‘a lot of things must
be taken into consideration’ when evaluating coaches and that Davidson College shouldNot be under pressure to produce winning records. Junior
David McGee asked whether there is any truth in the rumor that athletes commit a higher percentage of honor violations.
Farrell said it may seem like more athletes commit violations because they are more visible. Psychology professor Ruth Ault pointed
out that athletes may be more likely to cheat because they are under so much academic and athletic pressure. Frank
said he would like to see the Dean of Students’ office examine the issue. He recommended that the Dean tabulate
old honor cases and compare the percentage of athletes who commit violations with the percentage of the total student body.
When asked whether the faculty and student athletic polls will affect athletic policy, Farrell said he would need to see
the results first. Farrell also said the poll did not go into enough depth but that it might be useful.
While discussing how the Wildcat Club operates, the panel concluded that all sports would benefit greatly from their own booster
groups. Reported by Dan Voorhis and John Gathings.

However, he said the College gave the corporation interest-free loans from gifts received for that purpose. Covington has invested around
$75,000 of his own money in the project. Esther Johnson, a former Davidson resident and leader of a senior citizens
group in town, said residents of black neighborhoods around Griffith Street felt that “they want to uproot us, to move
us out. The people feel that the developers want to get your property for nothing.” Their main concern, she said,
was the possible need for a new mortgage on another house, when many of the people involved were elderly or
retired. She suggested that the residents would have to be convinced that they would be relocated without having to make
additional house payments. Covington said he or Currie would offer any help they could in creating an arrangement beneficial to
the residents. Covington said he was aware that rumors and misinformation have been circulating in the community concerning the corporation’s
activities. “It's a long, slow process and some people are still entrenched there,” he said, “and some are still suspicious.”
He reiterated that the group is “not out to displace anybody.” Annie Mildred Lowrey, a former member of the town
committee on community development, voiced some residents’ concern that the lakeside houses were inferior. “That's nothing but a swamp. Neither
house has a basement. Years to come some are gonna cave in,” she said. Covington called that assessment inaccurate. “She’s
wrong, period. They’re well-built houses; they meet all the FHA [Federal Housing Authority] requirements. I'd feel very comfortable in one
myself,” he said. Because of opposition from some residents, Covington does not think he will live to see the project
completed. He said despite having invested his money and work, “if you're fighting bad information, after you butt your head
against a wall you might as well say to hell with it.” One Griffith Street resident reflected on the residents’
position. “You don’t half know,” he said. “Some say one thing, some another.” Still, he thought that the residents would
sell out one at a time. “Most will sell,” he said.

An instantaneous leap into the magical has become a symbol of the ace movement. Now a bestseller in America. To
be a major motion picture released by Warner Bros. in 1984. Illustrated, printed in two colors throughout. $15.95 at all
booksellers.

—Washington Post

THE NEVERENDING STORY begins when you become part of it.

DOUBLEDAY

TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN BY
