THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXIII, Number 17
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, February 17, 1984

Harding House Incident Triggers SGA Petition
By DAVID McGEE

An incident involving a stranger seen around Harding and Grey Houses on Main Street last Friday night has raised questions
concerning the weaknesses of police protection on campus. In their Tuesday meeting, the SGA voted unanimously to petition College Trustees
to revise the dispatching system campus security has with Davidson town police. According to SGA president Hunter Monroe, “It’s important
to realize the problem; there is not a reliable response to emergency calls [to campus police].”

Friday Night’s Incident
Seniors Malcolm Campbell and Chris Gunn told The Davidsonian that they were in Grey House Friday night about 9 p.m.
when a student called and said a stranger was looking in the windows of Grey House. Gunn said he went
outside and saw a man at the rear entrance of Harding House. He and Campbell approached the stranger and began
talking to him.

Senior Malcolm C. Campbell said the man was intoxicated. “He said he was looking for ‘Dan’s’ house,” Campbell said. From
talking with the stranger, Campbell decided the man was not there by chance. “From the things he said and the
gestures he made, he was definitely there to rape.”

Athletic Surveys Show Football Overemphasized
By TED WILSON

The athletic surveys “don’t solve problems, but identify problems,” political science professor Thomas Kazee said. The two surveys, one of
which was administered to the faculty and the other to the students, are essentially the same. 239 students responded to
the student poll and 81 faculty members responded to the faculty poll. The survey's objective is to determine student and
faculty opinion about Davidson athletics. Kazee said that while these surveys do a good job of “trying to determine if
there is a problem, [they] don’t tell us much about how we ought to address the problem” if one exists.

The survey’s results reflect many similarities in the faculty’s and students’ views of Davidson sports. The first set of questions
asked people to rate how much emphasis is being placed on various athletic programs, on a scale of one to
five (five meaning that the sport is overemphasized). Both students and faculty indicate that there is too much emphasis on
men’s major intercollegiate sports. Eighty percent of the faculty and 59 percent of the students strongly felt that football is
overemphasized. Both students and faculty indicate that men’s minor sports need more emphasis. Seventy-seven percent of the responding students believe
that the emphasis on men’s minor athletics is a “little low” or “not enough.” Both surveys show that women’s sports
need more attention. The students are divided over club sports. While 30 percent said there was not enough emphasis on
club sports (a score of 1), another 30 percent indicated that emphasis is “a little low” (2) and 38 percent
said that it is “about right” (3). The average faculty score for club sports is 2.5, indicating the College needs
to place more emphasis on them. Both students and faculty agree that emphasis on intramurals is “about right.” Both surveys
reflect a desire for increased emphasis on soccer (as indicated by 23 professors and 60 students). To a lesser extent,
the faculty cited swimming (13 votes), women’s volleyball.

Inside This Week
-Funding: Second of a two-part focus on athletics. Page 3
-Reading: Poet Kratt and author Soos read poetry and prose at the Center this week. Page 5
-Camelias!: Interim President Frontis Johnston blossoms in the greenhouse. Page 6
-Ortmayer: Political science professor comments on Reagan’s foreign policy. Page 11

With this issue, The Davidsonian ceases publication until the spring term.(9), and tennis (8) as sports that need more attention
(or, as in the case of swimming, need to be added to the program). The students want track, baseball, basketball,
and lacrosse added to this list. The faculty survey reflects a variety:

(continued on page 4)

Peggy Pierotti

someone,” Campbell said. Gunn motioned to someone inside the house to call the police. Campbell and Gunn tried to detain
the man until the police arrived. Both said that some fireworks went off nearby and the man ran across Griffith
Street toward Food Lion in Sadler Square. Campbell and Gunn followed him as far as they could but stopped pursuing
the man when they saw him join with other persons behind the rear part of Food Lion. A Davidson and
a Cornelius police car arrived by the time Campbell and Gunn had walked back to Harding House. Campbell estimates that
15 minutes elapsed between the time Davidson police were called and when the police arrived at Harding House. Campbell and
Gunn got into a police car and a search was made of the neighborhoods around Food Lion. Campbell and Gunn
criticized the policeman who answered the call on several points. “The search we made was a total sham,” Campbell said.
“We drove through [the neighborhoods] at about 45 m.p.h. shining a bright light on the houses. The officer never asked
me for a description, he only asked me ‘Was he black?’ Later, the police never asked us our names, an
account of what happened, or description.” The two met with Davidson Mayor Nancy MacCormac Saturday afternoon to discuss the incident.
Davidson Police Chief Jack Warlick took a statement from Campbell and Gunn Tuesday, and they identified a suspect from photographs
at the station. The suspect has been cited for trespassing on campus before. In the fall, a man was seen
inside Harding House who said he was looking for “Dan’s” house.

Dispatching Problems

When the call was made to Davidson town police, which handles night and weekend calls from the campus, the town
dispatcher made several errors, according:

(continued on page 4)

The R.A.C.E. forum drew a crowd of nearly 200 students

R.A.C.E. Forum Addresses Black-White Relations

By DAN VOORHIS

Emotional discussion and an honest desire to understand Davidson’s race problems set the tone for Tuesday night’s R.A.C.E. forum. A
panel consisting of students, faculty, and alumni responded to comments and questions from the overflow crowd of around 200 in
the 900 Room. R.A.C.E., an acronym for Racial Attitudes Concerning Everyone, sponsored the forum to explore what panel moderator and
sociology professor James Wooten termed the “barrier of race” in black/white relations at Davidson. The discussion, stemming from questions submitted
earlier by students, focused first on conflicts in the social environment and then raised possible solutions. The basic question the
audience probed was how whites should view blacks. Should blacks be seen primarily as individuals, or as members of a
uniquely black culture? This issue emerged from a question asking why the most prejudiced people on campus were BSC members.
Junior Janet Stovell replied that everyone is prejudiced about some things. Black “prejudice” is necessary at Davidson to preserve black
identity in the face of an overwhelming white majority. Since black students cannot ignore the white world, Stovall said, they
seek their own kind for protection. Whites, on the other hand, do not have to live in a black world
and can easily ignore the problems of Davidson blacks. Several members of the audience felt that Stovall and others put
too much emphasis on the uniqueness of their culture. They felt that blacks were first and foremost people and should
be treated:

(continued on page 4)
