Friday, January 13, 1984 / The Davidsonian 3

Symposium To Be Held Next Week
Sloan Workshops Promote Applied Mathematics
By DAVID VAN PELT

Davidson will offer a four-week workshop for faculty members on applied mathematics this summer for the second year. Mathematics professor and director of the program Bruce Jackson is currently soliciting faculty applicants for this year’s workshop. The program consists of ten Davidson faculty members and four from Johnson C. Smith University, as well as several visiting professors and three resident instructors from the Davidson mathematics department: Bruce Jackson, Richardson King, and Benjamin Klein.

The primary focus of the math workshop, according to Jackson, is to educate professors from other fields. Faculty participants from last year included professors of history, foreign language, and the social sciences. They studied mathematical techniques such as functions, linear probability, and algebra, and constructed simple mathematical models. “We are interested in promoting the usefulness of mathematical models across a wide variety of disciplines,” Jackson said.

This year’s workshop, to be held in June, will stress computer simulation. The models, according to Jackson, will be slightly more involved than last year’s and will include topics more applicable to other subjects, such as language evolution and social choice. Mathematics background required by participants in the program remains “minimal” according to Klein. Last year, Klein said, “Some people were discouraged from participating, because we felt they had too much background.”

A grant from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation made the workshop possible. The workshops are only one part of a $250,000 New Liberal Arts grant from the Foundation. According to Jackson, the Foundation aims at improving the mathematical and technological ability of students majoring in other fields by educating the professors of those subjects. The grant also provides money for technological projects by professors, leave of absences, and mathematical symposiums such as the one to be held Thursday and Friday, Jan. 19 and 20.

All faculty members participating in the

By TOM SCHILLING

Below-zero temperatures burst water pipes at two College-owned houses during the bitter Christmas cold spell, causing damage at English professor Cynthia Lewis’s house on Concord Road and Vincent House on Main Street.

“Several pipes in the upstairs bathroom broke, causing a lot of damage,” Lewis said. A study in the rear of the house was hardest hit. Some of the downstairs ceiling warped and will need to be replaced. College maintenance engineer Phillip Cashion explained that new sheet rock and a new paint job will be needed to fix the ceiling.

Lewis blamed the incident on an unlucky coincidence. “The man who would have turned the heat on was out of town on Christmas Eve and was iced in,” Lewis said.

Burst water pipes also flooded the Vincent House basement on Main Street. Cashion said the damage at Vincent House was more extensive than at Lewis’s house. He could not estimate the cost of the damage for either house.

Pipes Burst In Sub-Zero Weather
Repairs for Lewis’s house will involve new sheet rock and fresh paint

Faculty Approves Curriculum Changes
By DAVID RESNIK

German students will be able to choose between two German concentrations next year as the result of course and catalog changes proposed by the Educational Policy Committee. The Faculty approved all but one of the EPC’s proposed changes at its Tuesday meeting.

The Faculty approved two different German majors. The first major is a literary concentration; it has the requirements currently used in the College catalogue. The second major is a German affairs concentration designed to offer students a course of studies usefulFor pursuing a career in international business, international law, the diplomatic corps, foreign services, and the military. The Faculty did not approve a motion to grant one course credit toward graduation for the successful completion of the entire sequence of military science 111, 112, 121, and 122. Currently, military science students can receive one course credit each from Military Science 231 and 241. All other military science courses are for non-academic credit. The Faculty also approved the elimination of History 100, Introduction to the Study of History. As a replacement, the history department will offer the following introductory sequences: History 111, 112, Ancient and Medieval History; History 113, 114, Modern European History from the Renaissance; History 117, 118, History of the United States. Other courses approved for next year include: English 183, Photography and Literature; English 181, Chinese Literature; English 110, Medieval Literature; English 187, Modern Black Literature; and Religion 276, Approaches to the Study of Myth and Symbol. EPC member and classics professor Dirk French said the changes were routine. Every year the Faculty submits its proposed changes to the EPC, but uncertainty about next year’s academic calendar forced the delay until January.

Workshops receive a $2,000 stipend. Many credit what Jackson called the “tremendous success” of last year’s workshop primarily to the visiting professors, particularly Maynard Thompson of Indiana University, who will return for this summer’s workshop. “I don’t think it’s possible to give Thompson enough credit,” Klein said. Noting his return this year, he said, “we can look forward to at least as much success as last year.” History professor C. E. Edmondson, a participant in last year’s program, also credited the performance of the resident staff. “Looking back in retrospect,” he said, “the three people from here really put it together and made it go.” Edmondson praised the workshop for “opening a whole new dimension, both for my reading and working with students.” French professor E. F. Jacobus, while admitting the difficulty of applying mathematical knowledge to his teaching, said that it helped him devise a new method of placing freshmen in language courses. Jacobus also praised the flexibility of the program and the variety of topics covered. “I thought it was very well organized,” he said. “I wish I had a whole year to do it,” he remarked.

Davidson Store Robbed
By ROSS HOLT

Thieves entered the Natural Resources shop in Davidson Dec. 30 and escaped with $400 in cash and merchandise. The break-in occurred at 128 North Main Street around 1 a.m., according to the Davidson police report. Officer R.H. Thrower observed a light in the back of the store but found both front and back doors locked. Natural Resources employee Fran Denegar discovered the theft when she came to work the next morning, said store owner Trissy Lomax. The thieves stole beer and wine valued at $50, a 6-inch black and white television set worth $100, and approximately $250 in cash. Lomax said “the thing that made me the very maddest” was that an unknown amount of the cash was taken from a collection for leukemia victim Janus Stowe. The thieves entered through a steel door in the rear of the building by prying the door apart from its frame and unlatching the bolt. Once inside they ransacked the business office. “They made a mess of things looking for cash,” Lomax said. Lomax has since reinforced the door with a steel guard over the latch. She will soon get bars for the rear windows and will no longer keep cash in the store, she said.