Friday, March 23, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Stuart Scholars Selected

(Communications Office)—Four high school seniors, three of them from North Carolina, have been chosen to receive prestigious Edward Crosland Stuart scholarships to attend Davidson College. The awards are worth more than $35,000 each over a four-year period. They are based solely on merit. This year’s recipients are Barbara Blood of Winston-Salem, Vincent Knight of Mt. Gilead, Allen Smith of Durham, and Michael Poulos of Sumter, SC. Each one will receive an amount equal to Davidson’s comprehensive fee, which includes tuition, fees, room, board, and laundry. For 1984-85 the comprehensive fee will be $9,090. Awards are normally renewable for four years.

The selection process began last fall with nominations from throughout the Southeast. “It is always difficult to choose four scholarship recipients from among so many outstanding candidates,” said Seddon Goode Jr. of Charlotte, chairman of the scholarship program’s board of directors, “but we feel these four recipients are superb examples of the qualities of life for which we remember Ed Stuart.” The awards are named for a 1954 Davidson College graduate who died in a Navy plane crash. Funds are provided by the Edward Crosland Stuart Foundation of Bartow, Florida, and by Stuart’s fellow Davidson alumni.

Blood, a senior at R.J. Reynolds High School in Winston-Salem, is vice-president of the German Club and a member of the Senior Girls’ Service Club and the varsity tennis team. She served at her school as editor of the annual and member of the house of representatives, and she won the Rensselaer Medal for Mathematics and Science. She is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. William L. Blood of Winston-Salem.

Knight attends the N.C. School of Science and Mathematics in Durham, where he serves as dorm assistant and plays varsity soccer. He has been president of Latin Club and director of the gospel chorus, and served in student government as hall representative, sergeant-at-arms, and freshman class president. He also was co-captain of the football team and a member of Beta Club and the Pep Club. Knight is the son of Mr. and Mrs. George H. Knight Jr. of Mt. Gilead.

Smith is a member of the National Honor Society and serves as chief marshal at Hillside High School in Durham. He is a member of the French Club and the Math Club, and played first trumpet in the marching band. He is a teen columnist for the Durham Morning Herald, and attended the N.C. Governor’s School. Smith is also a member of the tennis team, and has been ranked among the top six singles players in the state for each of the past three years. He is the son of Dr. and Mrs. D. Moody Smith of Durham.

Poulos attends Wilson Hall in Sumter where he serves as president of student government and of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes. He is a member of the debate team, Beta Club and Octagon Club, and serves as treasurer of the Key Club. He is co-captain of his football team, was named to the all-conference team, and was selected to play on the South Carolina All-Star team. He also is a four-year letterman in track.

New PCC Officers Elected

The Patterson Court Council elected its officers for the next year last Wednesday night. They are: Murray Simpson, president, and Jean Shepherd, chancellor. Mark Steiner and Ross Thayer will be representatives to the Union Board.

CROP Simulates World Hunger

As a part of hunger awareness week, the CROP committee of the Y-Corps wanted to dramatize the realities of world hunger through a meaningful simulation. About 65 students participated in a hunger awareness dinner Tuesday night, and most found the simulation a revealing portrayal of the problems of world hunger today.

Upon arriving in ‘the world,’ those who attended were seated in roped-off sections in the west half of the Commons. Each section represented the first, second, and third worlds. The three persons sitting in the ‘first world’ ate a steak dinner. The rest of the group was not quite as lucky. The 20 persons in the “second world” received rice, beans and water for dinner. However, the majority of the group, which was placed in the “third world” shared four bowls of rice and water for their meal. A sheet given to them before the dinner told them: “There are certain disadvantages to your situation. You are 61 percent of the world’s population, but you only control about 20 percent of the earth’s resources. Much of the food raised in your country is sold to the first world. Your meal will reflect the deprivation of your country... Welcome to dinner.”

As the simulation progressed, the ‘third world’ began protesting, and some sang theChorus to “We Shall Overcome.” Reluctantly, the ‘second’ and ‘first’ worlds gave away some of their extra food, but plenty of food was still left over, although not everyone got enough to eat. When the ‘first world’ finished eating, they had 12 extra bowls of rice on their table. College Chaplain Charlie Summers, who helped organize the event, gave a short talk after the meal. The group then discussed the problems of communication between those who had enough food and those who needed more, and the difficulty of distributing and storing food that occurred in the simulation.

“The primary cause of hunger in the world is poverty,” Summers said. “During the simulation, I took one bowl of rice away from one table in the ‘third world,’ telling them that a multi-national corporation had cut their wages. Things of this nature often happen in poor nations, and they have no means of recourse,” he said. Asked what students here can do about world hunger, Summers recommended students educate themselves about the problem of hunger and its possible solutions. Also, students could give money or make some other contribution to organizations fighting hunger; and they could support political changes in the government’s foreign aid programs, which mainly give military assistance to political allies of the U.S. Summers emphasized the importance of individual action with what a speaker on hunger said on campus this week. Questioned about the effectiveness of his actions, the speaker said: “A whisper is louder than silence.”

Computer Black Market Threatens Campuses

(CPS) — Rumors that a substantial campus black market in computers has arisen in recent weeks appear to be false, but campus officials worry that one may appear soon along with a difficult sales war with off-campus computer dealers. A USA Today newspaper story in late February alleged a large computer black market was forming on campuses as students buy the machines at a discount from their schools, and then re-sell them to others at a profit. But a College Press Service check with a number of campuses now selling computers at a discount indicates that, while officials worry that a black market may appear, none seems to be functioning yet.

Apple had shipped only about 48 of its new Macintosh computers by the end of last week, making a black market in the machines very small, if it exists at all, said company spokesman Daniel Lewin. “It’s not like scalping football tickets,” added Gregory Marks, who oversees computing programs at the University of Michigan. “For a student to buy 10 computers (to re-sell) is beyond most students’ means.” Nevertheless, all concerned say they’re watching campuses closely for telltale signs of emerging illegal computer traffic such as newspaper ads offering to buy “used” computers, students individually or collectively buying more than one machine at a time. “We’re going to monitor the campuses real closely,” Lewin cautioned. “I would not want to have any of our plans published.”

Besides the 24 schools that recently arranged to sell Apple Macintoshes at a $1200 discount to their students, scores of other campuses have started to sell computers cheaply to their communities. Fourteen universities have signed up to buy and sell new DEC 350 computers at 65% discounts. Zenith, IBM, and Texas Instruments, among many others, are developing similar discount arrangements with hundreds of campuses. Not surprisingly, ads have already appeared at Drexel and at Notre Dame, asking students if they want to sell their new computers. Notre Dame officials, among others, have developed a few stop-gap measures to abort the market. Students who buy from Notre Dame’s store must sign a “first refusal clause” that “states the person cannot sell the computer for a period of one year,” bookstore manager Ric Haley said. The university will sue if it finds out the student violates the agreement, he warns. The University of Michigan is branding all the machines it sells with a “U of M” symbol and serial number to discourage black marketeers. Michigan also makes students promise not to re-sell the machines for two years, or to pay a $2000 “liquidation fee” to the school if they do. Apple will now ask students for a “moral commitment” to use the discounted Macintoshes only for schoolwork, to keep them for a minimum of two years, and to understand that re-selling them may be grounds for expulsion at some schools.

Marlette To Speak At Open Luncheon

Next Monday’s Open Luncheon will feature Doug Marlette, syndicated political cartoonist for the Charlotte Observer and creator of the “Kudzu” comic strip. He will share his experiences as a cartoonist and show slides of his work. The luncheon begins at 12:30 pm and Marlette will speak at 1:00 pm.