BE re “hs RE RT ES sorin an <i Se! 

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXIV, Number 1
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, September 14, 1984

Zoning Decision May Put SPE On Campus
Board of Adjustment Denies SPE’s Use Of Main Street House

By ROSS HOLT

“It may have seemed a blessing in disguise,” said Sigma Phi Epsilon President Steve MacMillan of a May decision by the town Board of Adjustment to deny his off-campus fraternity special use zoning. The decision means that SPE can no longer use the residence it owns at 109 North Main Street as a fraternity house. The Adjustors also voted to allow Phi Gamma Delta fraternity to continue to use its Beaty Street house.

The town Board of Commissioners has granted the fraternity until June 1, 1985 to convert the house to a residential use or to vacate the premises. SPE members tentatively plan to return to Patterson Court after the town’s deadline (see accompanying story).

According to board chairperson Bob Currie, the adjustors listened to SPE members, alumni, and Main Street residents at a well-attended hearing. Currie said the adjustors passed two resolutions after the hearing. The first stated that the fraternity failed to meet the requirements of section 5-E of the zoning ordinances, Currie said. The second requested the town board allow the fraternity a “reasonable time to end the use,” he said.

Section 5-E sets up guidelines the adjustors must use to allow extensions on continued on page 6

These denizens of Belk practice the time-honored freshman ritual of pulling shirts up over faces and stuffing a hallmate into the trash can. For more first-year rituals, see page 10. Christian Harberts

Search Underway For Athletic Director

By VIRGINIA BROADDUS

A search committee is looking for a full-time athletic director for the college. Since 1981, head football coach Ed Farrell has held the position of acting director, while continuing to coach football. In his letter of appointment from the college, Farrell said, it was made clear to him that he could resign as athletic director at any time that he felt the dual position compromised either his coaching position or the school’s athletic program.

According to Farrell, with the increasing pressure from the Southern Conference, the desire to have the basketball team return to prominence in the N.C.A.A. play-offs, and the development of the new athletic complex, it seemed appropriate to divide the responsibilities. He said this would give the new director the opportunity to coordinate all sports, without having additional coaching responsibilities.

Mathematics professor J.B. Stroud, chairman of the committee, outlined the kind of director the committee is seeking. Such a person, Stroud said, should have “outstanding qualities, experience as a full-time director of athletics, and extensive experience with the Division I Program of the NCAA.” Stroud said the search would be a “formidable task.”

Rick Love, assistant to President continued on page 6

Sig-Ep Members Express Desire To Move Back To Patterson Court

By ROSS HOLT

Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity members are considering returning to Patterson Court next year after remaining off-campus 13 years. The contemplated move follows a May vote by the town Boardof Advisors that denied the SPE house, located on North Main Street, special use zoning. Though the fraternity is looking at other options, SPE President Steve MacMillan said returning to the Court was the most likely. “We’ve got a real good opportunity to move back on campus,” he said. “The College is greeting us warmly,” and, he added, has offered viable terms.” Other options include relocating fraternity quarters in a compatibly zoned area, MacMillan said. Last summer, a letter from the fraternity’s alumni board to SPE Alumni explored the possibility of raising funds for a new off-campus house. MacMillan noted, however, a desire among fraternity members, especially underclassmen, to “make a more positive contribution to the campus.” MacMillan said fraternity members will continue to eat in the Commons after moving to the Court, using the former ETC facility as a social house. SPE can abide by the self-selection continued on page 6

Kuykendall Appoints Project ’87 Committee
By ROXANNA GUILFORD

President John Kuykendall has appointed an 18-member committee to examine Project '87 and present a report containing its conclusions and recommendations. The committee, headed by Dean of Admissions John Griffith and mathematics Professor Bruce Jackson, will have representatives from various areas of the college’s life. According to the president’s office, members of the committee will be selected by next week. Griffith plans to hold the committee's first meeting sometime next week. They will continue to meet throughout the term, submitting their report on or before Nov. 30. At this point, the committee has no specific goals or plans. The biggest job now, according to Griffith, is establishing the committee's groundwork. Both he and R.A.C.E. representative Andrew Yon also expressed a need to look beyond Davidson for ideas. “We need to understand what has gone on outside of Davidson... so we aren’t reinventing continued on page 7

Dean Hires Counselor Following Drug Survey
By LEE WHITE

The Dean of Students office has hired a part-time drug counselor as a result of a survey conducted by Political Science Professor Thomas Kazee’s Public Opinion class last spring. Terry suggested to Kazee that his class conduct a survey on student attitudes toward drug use. The survey showed a need for a drug counselor here on campus. Campbell Peery, a drug rehabilitation counselor from Charlotte, will spend one night a week on campus. With an approach based on group therapy, Peery will begin visiting campus in the next few weeks, according to Terry. A date has not been set. Terry sees Peery’s role as primarily educational. Terry said Peery would work with the Dean’s office only on cases referred for counseling by the Dean. Peery will keep cases in which students voluntarily seek help confidential. Terry outlined other actions the Deans’ office plans to take in a letter he sent to parents of students this summer. Dr. Thomas Kazee “It is my desire to see us attack this problem without apology. We hope none of you were naive enough to believe that Davidson was so far removed from our society that drugs did not exist here. I am glad the problem is no worse. “These are the steps we intend to continued on page 7