8 Friday, April 6, 1984 / The Davidsonian

—Music—

By STEVE MANK

The Alarm’s short American career began with the sudden success of their self-titled debut E.P. That was followed soon with
a supporting role in U2’s tour last year. The attention the tour brought them did no harm indeed, and they
soon became the critics’ pet, labeled “The Clash with acoustic guitars.”

Their music — which was actually far more than a new way of playing the Clash — caught the ears
of Pretenders’ 1984 tour promoters and now the band, unknown six months ago, is no longer merely a supporting act
but billed as a “special guest.”

But 1984 is not a year of laurel resting or special guesting for the Alarm; it is the year of
their brilliant debut L.P. Declaration.

The album is a powerful compilation of twelve anthems of freedom and glorious revolution that carry at once the lulling
intimacy of an acoustic guitar and the pounding force of a snare drum.

The key to the art of the Alarm is recognition. They choose from a wide pool of influences, which they
mesh subtly into a style of their own. The tone switches from a manic Bob Dylan to a manic Grateful
Dead to a manic Queen — never the same, but always manic.

The album opens with a frantic orchestra of acoustic guitars for the two-line introductory title track. Guitar flourish, drum beat,
and the boys are off on a delicate, yet never gentle, remake of “Marching On” off the E.P.

The barrage continues with a string of unrelenting marches long on dynamism that refuses to let up until there's no
disc left.

“Sixty Eight Guns” is probably the best song on the album. It has an air of foreboding but does not
stray too far from a certain singalong quality. The middle sequence features almost frightening spartan instrumentation that is a guaranteed
crowd pleaser even when there is only a crowd of one.

“The Stand (A Prophesy),” another outstanding track, is an acoustic guitar and harmonica refrain and follow-up to the band’s hit
single off The Alarm.

In spite of all the good qualities of the L.P., the lyrics are, at times, lacking. Where they could have
made a powerful statement the band often opts for child-like idealism.

The musicianship, however, is excellent. Drummer Twist and bassist Eddie MacDonald work in complete cohesion while the rhythmic guitars of
Dave Sharp and Mike Peters (and occasionally MacDonald) cut through the air like a machete through underbrush. Vocals, sung by
all members, but especially Peters, never falter in expressiveness, intensity, or importance.

But importance is the source of the band’s success. They’re not very good looking. Neither are they material for the
world of pop teen idoldom. The lyrics are sometimes imperfect. Yet every minute of every cut doesn’t just demand attention,
it forcibly wrenches it away from you. If The Clash are concerned about a band that sometimes sounds like them
they shouldn’t be. What The Clash should worry about is having to relinquish their crown as “the only band that
matters.”

The Alarm: New Band Set to Unseat The Clash

Looking for a part-time job?

The UNCC Center for International Studies invites

Openings for hard workers at

UNITED PARCEL SERVICE

Applications are to be accepted at United Parcel Service — (Corner of I-85 and North Graham) Wednesday, April 11, 1984
from 5:00 p.m. — 7:00 p.m.

Taking applications for the following shifts:

5:30 p.m. — approximately 9:00 p.m.
12:45 p.m. — approximately 4:00 p.m.
4:00 a.m. — approximately 7:30 a.m.
11:00 p.m. — approximately 2:30 a.m.

Pay: $8.00 per hour
15 to 25 hours per week, Monday through Friday

Excellent benefits
Additional inquiries or information available through Careers Office

Equal Opportunity M/F

Students, Professionals, and Community Members to:

SUMMER EXPLORATION

The Center for International Studies offers the following overseas travel/study programs this summer:

Canada (Foreign Languages) $ 450
England (English & Creative Arts) $1,990
England (History) $1,795
England/Wales (Geography) $1,975
Germany (Foreign Languages) $1,399
Germany/Switzerland (Human Development & Learning) $1,899
Greece (Human Development & Learning) $2,593
Kenya (Sociology & Anthropology) $2,600
Mexico (Foreign Languages) $1,175
Spain (Geography & Foreign Languages) $1,475

May 6-May 21
June 9-July 1
July 6-July 28
July 8-July 28
July 19-August 20
June 13-July 2
July 13-August 3
July 14-June 29
July 2-July 31
June 11-June 26

These programs may be taken for academic credit. Prices are approximates and generally include round-trip airfare from New York, lodging,
breakfast, ground transportation, and UNCC tuition. Please inquire about extras.

For more information, contact: The Center for International Studies, The University of North Carolina at Charlotte, Charlotte, NC 28223; telephone
(704) 597-2407.

KING OF PIZZA

663-3030
225 S. Broad St.
Mooresville

FAMILY NIGHT
Every Monday Night
5 To 10

PIZZA

BUY ONE PIZZA (ANY SIZE)
GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE

FREE
