10 Wednesday, December 12, 1984 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
Kevin Horan, Business Manager
John Gathings, Production Manager
Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor
Will Thomason, Advertising Manager
David McCurry, Circulation Manager

Drug Policy

For the second time since the administration began to perceive a drug problem on campus, all the members of a dormitory have received letters informing them — if not warning them — of complaints about drug abuse. The first letter, sent to fourth Sentelle last spring, came as a warning from the Dean’s office. The most recent letter, sent from the Housing office to first Sentelle last week, attempted to forestall official action.

This plan of attack against a drug problem is easy. It allows the administration to deal rather anonymously with violators. It eliminates the need to charge individuals with Code of Responsibility violations. And, it deals with the smaller problems — the relationships between drug users and non-drug users in the dorms and the like. But it makes examples of the noisiest halls for the rest of the campus to read about, or hear about through the rumor mill.

Furthermore, this unwritten policy also tramples the rights of the individuals on the halls, and fails to address the real problems. Warning a hall about drug use ignores the fact that some — perhaps most — hall members may not use drugs. An important part of Davidson’s Code of Responsibility holds that no student is guilty until proven so. Any enforced hall visit with Campbell Perry, the drug counselor, implies that everyone on the hall needs to be there. Drug problems are best dealt with privately, on an individual basis. This week’s action by the Housing office clearly inconvenienced some and gave a misleading impression of first Sentelle, which not all the residents on that hall deserve. Discipline is one thing; therapy for possible drug problems is another. The College ought to keep the two straight.

The Report

The report of the Task Force on Racial/Ethnic Concerns is a landmark. Davidson has never completed a study quite like it, especially concerning the livelihood of blacks and other minorities here. Though 77 pages may seem intimidating, the report is well worth everyone’s time. It says things that have needed saying for a long time.

For example, the report states in one section: “Most students find the town of Davidson to be friendly and open to their presence. Black students frequently have a different experience.” Doubtless, the committee had in mind the incidents of town police officers asking black students for their I.D.s and the controversy surrounding the Griffith Street Project, which is run by a group of College alumni who are buying property along Griffith Street to eliminate an “unsightly” approach to Davidson College.

The report’s last page reads “Appendix 18 Reactions of Community (to be added).” Certainly this report, which will guide future policy regarding minorities, depends on alumni, faculty, and student response. We urge everyone to study the report (including the information on file in the library) so that the forums the task force will hold Jan. 9 and 10 will be as meaningful as possible. The Task Force has worked hard, and all the members deserve our thanks. Their efforts show the commitment to improving minority students’ experience at Davidson is high.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Ted Wilson, Assistant News Editor, Ginger Broaddus, Richard Cloudt, Andrea Diedrich, Chris Fisher, Roxanna Guilford, Tom Schilling, Chandon Sinha, Lee White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson.Chris Hughes, Jill Boyette
Arts and Entertainment Staff: Craig Detweiler, Thurston Hatcher, Stephen Mank, Ann Meador, Matt Morris, Samuel Scott, Treeby Williams
Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Assistant Sports Editor, Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley
Photography Staff: Christian Harberts, assistant photography editor, Brad Brechtelsbauer, Jill Boyette, Phillip Dennis, Kevin Horan, Wartiner Inge, Rocky Kmiecik, Bruce von Stein
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey
Advertising Staff: Joanneke Brentjens, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt
Production Staff: Brooke Knight, Pauline Rhodes
Compositors: Bobby Downie, Mitch Hall, Anne Lambert, Lisa Lano, Martha Yeide

— Wha’d ya think I am—

Letters

Race Report
To the Editors:
After reading the “Report of the Task Force on Racial/Ethnic Concerns” I felt like we really could allay racial tensions at Davidson and begin to cultivate a pride in our diversity. The report unveils an exciting array of ways in which to deal with existing problems. Many of the suggestions are mere sketches, with details to be worked out later. Others lack only organization and an okay. One such suggestion, the Task Force’s proposal to bring the number of black students and black faculty up to acceptable levels forms a logical and fundamental first step. However, the College must not allow ambition in fulfilling these goals to overshadow its obligation “to foster and maintain an academic, residential, social, and spiritual community supportive of and responsive to persons of all racial/ethnic heritages.” If we adopt the proposal of Project 87, which demands “at least one hundred Black students enrolled” and “at least ten American Black professors” by 1987, then we have an attractive goal but a very dangerous timetable.

Naturally, Davidson will seek quantity and quality when it begins to expand its minority base, but tight time constraints tend to foster compromise. The report explains the national shortage of black Ph.D.’s and emphasizes the high competition for top academic black students. It suggests a number of long-term solutions to the latter problem, but any attempt to rapidly hire nine black professors could be disastrous. As the report shows, the market is not glutted. While we may as well try to reach the goal in three to five years, we must not put this schedule above common sense. We do not want to grant tenure for the wrong reasons.

I suggest we set qualitative goals before quantitative goals when we deal with minority expansion. Certainly, we want to accomplish this in a reasonable number of years, even within a definite framework. To allow opportunity for trial and error (especially with professors) ten years might be more realistic. And even that should not be an inflexible limit if circumstances warrant an extension. I have the greatest enthusiasm for the program. The effort and money it requires will benefit the integrity of Davidson by demonstrating that it is a responsible school of the 80s. But let us proceed cautiously — and slowly if necessary — to make the transition a smooth one.

Aaron Taylor

Postponement
To the Editors:
The SGA’s decision to postpone Tuesday’s elections on Monday evening was the result of a viable complaint. The election sign-ups were not very well publicized. However, in attempting to correct that mistake, the SGA made yet another one. The SGA did not notify either Y-presidential candidate of the meeting to discuss a postponement of the elections. This error clearly remains inexcusable.

The Y began to publicize the upcoming election five weeks ago through the Y Newsletter — notifying students of the elections before Christmas and the interviews for remaining offices after Christmas. This is important because the Y changes offices in early January — not at the beginning of spring term. Furthermore, this is the first year we are interviewing candidates for officer and program coordinator positions. The postponement will both delay this process and push back our annual winter leadership retreat until the end of winter term, if not later. In short, the SGA has greatly delayed our entire transition from old to new officers through their original negligence and later oversight. The Y presidential election should have occurred as scheduled on Tuesday.