Friday, October 26, 1984 / The Davidsonian 9

The Godfather: Coppola Immortalizes Mafiosos

By CRAIG DETWEILER

The Godfather — (1972) Starring Marlon Brando, Al Pacino, James Caan, Robert Duvall, Richard Castellano, John Marley, Diane Keaton, Talia Shire. Directed by Francis Ford Coppola. ****

“It’s a Man’s, Man’s, Man’s, Man’s World” according to the Godfather of Soul (GFOS) James Brown. This week’s fine pop film, Francis Ford Coppola’s classic The Godfather affirms Brown’s musical statement.

The Godfather explores the brotherhood, sexual frustration, machismo, patronage, and violence that dominates the all-male world of the American mafia. Through brilliant acting, writing, and directing, The Godfather transcends its relational concerns to occupy a seminal position in film history.

Released in 1972, The Godfather bridged the gap between the blockbuster epics of the ’60s and the human dramas of the '80s. Combining commercial and critical success, Coppola’s breakthrough film exists as the last great, entertaining epic. Following long, expensive extravaganzas like Dr. Zhivago and Lawrence of Arabia, The Godfather manages to enthrall the viewer for nearly three marvelous hours.

Hollywood has failed in attempts to recreate the fun and fine epic film. Lamentable efforts include Reds (not fun), King Kong (not fine), and Heaven’s Gate (neither fun nor fine). Even Gandhi neglected the flavor and flair necessary to keep the viewer’s attention during a marathon movie — it worked more like a documentary than a commercial entertainment. The Godfather serves as the culmination of the broad, box-office blockbusting, Hollywood epic.

It also telegraphed the ’80s trend toward human drama. The complex, highly developed relationships displayed in Coppola’s work prefigure the familial concerns of Ordinary People, Kramer vs. Kramer, and Terms of Endearment. The tension and love exchanged by Don Corleone, Michael, and Sonny should not be diminished by their context within the mafia. The Godfather suggests that mafiosos are people too, who celebrate marriages, pass on the family business, and look out for each other.

Relationships dominate the storyline that details the transfer of power from the aging Don Corleone to his sons, Michael and Sonny. Coppola allows an open view into the Corleone family. Sharing in Sonny’s wedding, Don Vito's closed-door decisions, and the family’s “hits,” the viewer becomes absorbed in the mafia environment.

Questions are never raised about the justification of mob violence and abuse. The audience sympathizes with a patriarch trying to hold a family together. The shifting loyalties and emotions of Don Corleone steer his family (both personal and financial) through turbulent situations. Coppola hooks the involved audience in the rocky scenes of Sonny's death, the horse’s head, Don Vito and his grandson, and the spaghetti supper massacre. The viewer becomes a member of the family experiencing the pain, the love, and the fulfillment shared by the Corleones.

The Godfather supersedes normal gangster films because of superb scripting, acting, and directing. Author Mario Puzo collaborated with Coppola in their Academy Award-winning script. The selective scenes from the novel are written for full dramatic impact. A superstar cast animates the screenplay. Marlon Brando gives a powerhouse performance of depth, eccentricity, and realism.

To portray the mumbling Don, Brando actually placed cotton balls in his cheeks. Admiring his talent in The Godfather heightens the disappointment of his subsequent career. The box-office receipt records broken by The Godfather propelled Al Pacino and James Caan to big-buck, superstar status. Caan’s macho, hotheaded Sonny appears fiery and fresh.

As Michael Corleone, heir apparent to Don Vito, Al Pacino creates a sensitive, intense character that commands audience sympathy. Robert Duvall's work as the adopted son Tom provides a preview of his outstanding supporting roles that followed The Godfather.

Credit can be accorded to the casting agent for assembling an impressive, believable assortment of mafiosos. The ensemble looks, speaks, and feels Italian.

Highest kudos, though, go to Francis Ford Coppola for his direction and vision. His firm grasp of personal expression and public fascination forged The Godfather into its elevated, popular form. From his two Godfather projects, Coppola could make a claim to be the director of the last quarter of this century. Coppola's subsequent films, The Conversation, Apocalypse Now, and Places in the Heart unfortunately reveal an artist overexpressing himself. In The Godfather, Coppola and his cast balance the creative intensity and objective control needed to produce enduring films.

Dan Moldea’s recent Union lecture on mob activities in America documented the mafia’s endurance. Coppola's motion picture portrays a family in such a poignant, popular, and powerful way that the mafia will always remain immortal on the screen.

The Davidsonian now has paid business and advertising positions available part-time.

Call 892-2000 ext. 148