Friday, October 12, 1984 / The Davidsonian 13

IMAC Flickerball — Midseason Report

By HUNTER GOURLEY

While the number of IMAC playing fields has diminished, oddly enough — and fortunately, too — enthusiasm over flickerball has not. In light of all this enthusiasm and the adaptability most IMACers have displayed in dealing with some of these minor hardships, it’s time that flickerball, perhaps the most popular fall activity on campus, gets a little something of what it deserves.

No, not new fields to replace those that were stolen, not a new stadium or even equal rights for playing time in the old one, along with all the other teams. Flickerball deserves some respect. Right Rodney? And perhaps, some ink, too. Hence, this brief midseason report. Freshmen and women first.

The Newcomers

The freshmen come to play this fall, though not necessarily to win. But then again, what do you expect with so little emphasis placed on flickerball during freshmen orientation? The first week of IMAC action — way back in mid-September — saw three freshmen teams earn victories. One of those came by forfeit.

That team was the C-Men (named mockingly after those famous sailor boys?) from third-center Belk. They, no doubt, gladly accepted such an easy victory. For Three Bald Men of third-east Belk and Main Drag, the freshwomen of first Richardson, victory came the old-fashioned way, earning them 26-13 and 6-0 respectively against experienced teams (whose names will remain a secret).

Two members of the “Penthouse Babes” kickoff in IMAC flickerball.

The team from second-center Belk, the Banana Hammocks, were welcomed into the flickerball world in a more traditional manner — an unmerciful 61-0 spanking by the KA Gold. Perhaps it’s some consolation, or at best a fairly safe bet, to pick this merry band of KA milk drinkers to go on to win the entire flickerball shooting match.

Yet another freshwoman team came so close to winning that we’ll score it as a moral victory. Third Rich’s Third Degree nearly upset the vastly experienced Warner Hall team in a 7-6 thriller. Oops — I overlooked a big first-week victory by a talented team from third-west Belk, the Fighting Scots, over the SPE team, Flex Crush, in a 31-19 blood bath.

All you frat-baggers and groupies will be thrilled to know that (with the exception of Flex Crush, alas) the teams of eternal brotherhood are once again playing to win in other league games. KA Gold and the SAE’s Throbber Flicks are at the top of the standings in their respective divisions, I and II. These two perennial flickerball powerhouses met last Sunday in a match that may forebode anticlimax in the future and which the Gold won rather decisively in the second half.

PiKA’s first team, We Bomb in Five, looks to take the honors in the third division if all goes according to their plans. In the final men’s division it looks as if Ages 3 and Up, an independent team made up of some less than haughty SAE’s, faculty, and staff might walk away as big winners. But there are three other freshmen teams that continue to improve, a Fiji team, another PiKA one, and of course Flex Crush, all to contend against in this well-balanced division.

The Woman’s League

Finally then, there is the woman’s league. And once again it looks as if experience will reign supreme. Warner Hall has moved up in recent rankings to second place behind the Penthouse Babes. Look for it to end this way as well. But then again in the topsy-turvy world of flickerball, who knows?