8 Friday, March 23, 1984 / The Davidsonian

The Rise And Fall Of Publications At Davidson

Editor's note: This is the first article in a periodic series called “Remembering Davidson.” The series will include articles by
professors, students, and alumni, as well as old Davidsonian articles, pertaining to the Davidson of yesterday.

By Dr. CHALMERS G. DAVIDSON
Special to The Davidsonian

As far as the students were concerned, they began printing things the first year the college opened. The literary societies,
Eumenean and Philanthropic, were the sponsors of the first college publication, an address delivered before them by Mr. John Beard
of Salisbury in 1837. This is a quaint little pamphlet, printed in Salisbury, of which only one copy is now
known to be extant. From that date throughout the ante-bellum period and for several decades after the Civil War, the
Societies continued to call prominent men to address them at commencement, and these addresses were almost invariably printed for distribution
among the students.

Davidson did not publish a literary and historical magazine before the Civil War, although this was not an uncommon practice
among institutions of higher learning at that time. However, any campus organization or group of students apparently felt free to
print a pamphlet whenever an occasion appeared to them to warrant it. The Sons of Temperance published addresses that appealed
to it, and even unorganized groups of students would request a copy of a sermon delivered in chapel that struck
a sympathetic chord and would send it off to the printer in Charlotte or Salisbury.

Unfortunately, not all that the students saw fit to print was so obviously concerned with moral uplift. In 1859 the
Sophomore Class published what was known as a “Rake.” This was a satire on the members of the Freshman and
Junior classes and was entitled The Freshmen and Junior's Mirror. The outstanding individuals of these two classes were selected for
merciless ridicule and criticism (or, better, “abuse”) ostensibly “for their own good.” For example, one Davidson gentleman was advised to
wash his feet and another was admonished to stop picking his nose in public. The barbs were so personal and
keen that a wholesale “duel” almost took place and guns and knives were beginning to flash. The Trustees met in
an extraordinary session and obtained apologies from the Sophomores. While on their mission of reform, the second-year men had also
taken advantage of the opportunity to let the faculty know what they thought of them. One section of the Rake
was entitled “Laws and Regulations of the College” and among these were the fol-

Kuram Troupe Provides Opportunity For Dancers To Pursue Their Art

By ALLISON WILLS

Closet dancers will now have a chance to express themselves for the first time at Davidson through the recently established
Davidson Dance Troupe. Its founder, sophomore Paulette Kurani, had been dancing for fourteen years. When she came to Davidson, however,
she found no opportunity to continue the art she loves so much.

“Though the PE department offers dance lessons for credit, there has never been an opportunity for dancers to get together
and perform,” Kurani said. “I decided to start a group like one I used to be in to keep up
the dancing, to have fun, and to choreograph.”

The group, which consists of 16 dancers — eight men and eight women — ranges from beginners to very experienced
dancers like Kurani and sophomore Trish Lennon. It is open to many styles of dance choreographed to all kinds of
music — from classical to rock and roll.

Freshman Howie Moyes was hesitant to join at first because he was afraid the group would be comprised solely of
women, but he said, “not being the only [male] now, I don’t feel uncomfortable at all. I wasn’t surprised that
Davidson had never offered a group like this before, but after I joined I wondered why someone hadn’t started it
before,” he said. “I guess it just took someone with the initiative,” he added.

Moyes had taken one year of dance in high school for a PE credit, but other dancers in the troupe
have had up to 15 years of formal training. Kurani discovered many experienced dancers whose talents were going unnoticed at
Davidson. “Some of the dancers in the group were in dance companies and had the chance to have careers in
dance,” Kurani said. “They had to decide between dance and academics. By coming here they obviously chose academics and gave
up the opportunity of becoming professional dancers. It’s sad that they had to neglect their dancing completely.”

The Davidson Dance Troupe meets informally from 3 to 5 on Friday afternoons at the racquetball courts to dance and
choreograph. “Because some of the dancers have had years of training and some have had no formal dance training, we
will work at different levels to each“Paulette Kurani practices a dance movement. ‘It’s really just for fun. Everyone is encouraged
to come if they have a love for dancing,’ Kurani said. The group is scheduled to perform for Spring Frolics
as part of the Saturday afternoon Union activities and for the talent show. Eventually, Kurani hopes the troupe will have
its own production and will perform at community events. ‘So far the response has been great. I was really surprised
to see that so many people share my interest in dance,’ she added, noting that she was especially pleased to
see so many men express interest. Kurani has also received encouragement from Sue Ross and Will Terry, and the Union
Board has expressed interest in helping to finance productions.

At his inauguration, the President of the College shall look knowing and each professor shall pretend that he knows twice
as much as he really does. It shall be the duty of the professors generally, and of the Professor of
Chemistry in particular, to attend prayers twice during each year — at the February examinations, and at Commencement, and also
to attend at other times when any of the Trustees are about the College. The President and professors may, at
their discretion, tell the students that any law, which suits a particular emergency, is recorded in their private code (a
document which no student has ever seen).

The period of the Civil War put an end to all literary activity. Davidson was probably the only men’s college
in the South which did not close her doors during the conflict and reconstruction. It was also one of the
first to regain her pre-war vigor. The South was defeated, but Davidson was not reconstructed. The first publication from the
college after the war was a Compendium of Logic for the Use of the Sophomore Class published by the Class
of 1870. The logic included is definitely that of the pre-war period. It would serve no good purpose to reprint
any of it here as the student mind of today is of contrary convictions. By taking collective responsibility for the
publication, the Class of 1870 probably avoided punishment from the carpet-bag government. There is no author listed on the title
page, though it is believed that the professor of logic, John Munroe Anderson, did most of the writing.

In the same year, the two literary societies began the publication of the Davidson Monthly which the title page states
was to be devoted to ‘science, literature and art.’ It was in every way a credit to the college, but
survived for only two years. For the next fourteen years, the students had no medium for literary expression. Occasional pamphlets
appeared, but not with the regularity of the ante-bellum period. In 1886, the literary societies revived the Davidson Monthly and
it continued, with a change of title to The Davidson College Magazine, for forty years. In 1925, owing largely to
a story by a later prominent Presbyterian minister which failed to meet the approval of the faculty censors, The Davidson
College Monthly came to a sudden demise.

The literati of the student body at that time was composed of as brilliant a group of aspirant writers as
Davidson ever had. They were unwilling to let the magazine die and by placing it under the sponsorship of Sigma
Upsilon, the literary fraternity, they put out an issue in the spring of 1926. In order to convince the faculty
that they had completely changed complexion from the recent slightly off-color magazine, the new one was christened The Chameleon. It
was beautiful in format and very much alive in content. Probably the most original and creative writing that the students
of Davidson have ever produced is contained in the three volumes of The Chameleon. Such scintillation was too bright to
last and burnt itself out by 1930. The variegated lizard apparently swallowed himself and disappeared.

During the 1920s, the same period in which the Magazine was under suspicion, the members of the Junior Class had
been publishing a joke periodical each year, partly to work off excess humor and partly to have something to show
the girls who came in for Junior Speaking, at that time the principal social event of the year. The humor
periodical appeared under various titles as Cap and Bells and Sanity Rare. It was succeeded in 1930 by a more
permanent humor magazine called The Yowl, which lasted for six years and occasionally, under editors like Vereen Bell, admitted a
little creative writing between the jokes. A definite change for the better came when The Yowl with its outlandish title
was replaced by Scripts 'n Pranks. Its raison d'être as explained by its first editor, Hal Overton, was to combine
in one magazine both literature (Scripts) and humor (Pranks) and as such it continued successfully down to the interruption of
the Second World War.”
