10 Friday, April 27, 1984 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Managing Editor
Ross Holt, Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

Divided We Stand?

The dialogue concerning the problem of race at Davidson seems to have exploded yet again. If anyone had thought that
last term’s Race Awareness forum represented anything more than a start, the persistent low boil of tension should dispel that
notion rapidly. Davidson is already socially polarized between blacks and whites, and one thing that must not be allowed to
happen is intellectual polarization. If either white students or black students entrench behind rhetoric, even the limited efforts at communication
going on now will fail; if communication fails, Davidson might as well give up any idea of being a racially
healthy community.

Awareness and sensitivity are two different things. Most white students are aware — or at least more aware — of
the problems black students face. Often, however, white students ponder the problem after a race forum or a series of
newspaper articles, fail to see a quick, easy solution, and then just give up. How many “concerned” white students actually
accepted the BSC members’ challenge at last term’s forum to attend a BSC function?

The problem of sensitivity to black students’ feelings arises in part due to differences in perception. Black students, because of
their race’s history, heritage, and culture, feel the problems emotionally and personally. White students, on the other hand, often try
to understand those problems from a detached rational point of view. White students, faculty, and administrators must seek to understand
the personal, emotional nature of the problems. Black students, on the other hand, must lay out the problems, again and
again and again. It will be frustrating, but both groups must maintain an even keel if any productive solution is
to arise. Though dynamic persuasion will be necessary, both groups must avoid anger at all costs. Though anger turns heads
and garners attention at first, eventually it causes polarization. Ultimately, it

Thanks, Bob

Well, how do you expect to do in the housing lottery? Afraid of getting odd-manned into waiting-list land? Never fear.
After weeks of following Bob Building around, Davidsonian reporters have discovered where the Housing Office intends to squirrel the overflow.
Among those locations:

- The SGA Offices: They’ve got two couches, a set of shelves, desks — nearly everything anyone could need. This
beautiful two-room suite is ideal (except for the lack of a bathroom with showers and periodic interruptions from John and
Beadsie).
- Chambers: With the retirement of Professors George Labban and Dan

Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor
Randy Stroud, Photography Editor

You'll be fine... as long as you don't have any classes before eleven o'clock.

LETTERS

Race

To the editors:

This is a response to Paul Weiss and David Gaston’s letter in last week’s Davidsonian, which essentially told the BSC
to solve racial problems themselves. Dr. King’s seminar demonstrated that the most effective way to change an institution is for
those in power to do so. Here at Davidson, whites, not the BSC, are in power.

Jennie Barnhardt

Books’

To the Editor:

A recent count shows that the number ofLost library books are up 50 percent from last year. Right now, there
are 466 books to be found or replaced. At an average of $20 per book, replacing that many books can
be extremely expensive. Help keep the number of lost books at a minimum by remembering:
— Always check out the books you plan to use.
— Return books to their proper place on the shelves if you decide not to use them.
— Return bound periodicals to their proper shelves instead of leaving them in your carrel, on tables, or in Chambers.
— Books that are not meant for circulation should not be checked out.

Be considerate of other students doing research by letting the library staff get books back on the shelves where they
belong.

The Library Faculty Committee

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters that are of general interest, but we
adhere to these guidelines:
— We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
— We require that letters be neatly written.
— We reserve the right not to print articles that:
a) function as advertisements;
b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes;
c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in other letters printed on the same topic.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first-class postal rates. Advertising rates available on
request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: David Van Pelt, Boyd Blackburn, Assistant News Editors, Roxanna Guilford, Rand Hartsell, Bob Loper, Frances Palmer, Tom Schilling,
Elizabeth White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Miguel Abreu, Brian Butler, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris

Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Assistant Sports Editor, Kerry Brown, Hunter Gourley, Patricia Hahn, Jean Webb

Photography Staff: Carroll Overton, Assistant Photography Editor, Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael Dent, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Rocky Kmeicik, Laura McGee, Anderson
Scott, Mike Snell, Bruce von Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Kevin Horan

Compositors: Anne Lambert, Lisa Lano, Rob Pool, Jorgia Rice, Frank Roberts, Debby Williams

Copy Editing: Christine Jackson

Circulation: David McCurry, Manager
