Friday, October 5, 1984 / The Davidsonian

College Begins Decade Self-Study (continued from page 1)

"They will consider our recommendations when they make their report," Laughlin said. The recommendation will cover responses on a variety
of areas. Laughlin said he wants responses on student development services, such as the Union and Patterson Court. He will
also solicit opinions concerning physical resources, the library, athletics, and the undergraduate program, he said.

Other Uses of the Study

The study is important not only for accreditation but also for future student leadership and representation, according to Laughlin. "It
will give campus organizations a good idea of their strengths and weaknesses," he said.

Welcome to downtown historic district. Cheers! We're glad you're back! Irene and Taylor Blackwell

The Village Store

110 S. Main St.

Davidson's The Village Store has served Davidson College and town for nearly 20 years! We hope our old friends (and
new!) will find time during their busy weekend to come in for a visit and a cup of cider. Be
sure to see our North Carolina room, featuring carefully chosen area arts. We still have our familiar great gift selections
and we would like to give you a free map of the proposed zoning.

Since the study is due in February, there will not be enough time to effectively apply it this year, Laughlin
noted. However, it will guide future student leaders in making "long-term strategy plans," he said. "It will give more support
when students make suggestions for curriculum changes or other alterations. Someone will be able to back up a suggestion with
statistics," he added.

President John Kuykendall will also use the student report. Although the report is usually done once every 10 years, this
is the 11th year. The College waited until a new president was appointed so that the report could be used
to its full potential, according to Laughlin.

The committee will meet for the first time next week. It is composed of 19 members, including co-chairpersons Laughlin and
senior Elizabeth Brooks, who is not here this term. The other committee members are Chet Barksdale, Will Cardwell, Lloyd Chapin,
Jay Gaither, Hartley Hall, Ed Hay, Rachel Henning, Frank Hobart, Ross Holt, Tory Hyatt, Perry Killam, Jeff Lesesne, Mickey McDonald,
Beth Maczka, Polly Northen, Sarah Smith, and Mary Webber.

Air Force Awards Maloney Service Medal (continued from page 1)

After the war, he enrolled at Davidson. In 1954, he joined the faculty here. He is presently chairman of the
Religion department. Along with his responsibilities at Davidson, Maloney served as a military chaplain from 1956 to 1984. Presently, he
holds the rank of colonel. Maloney took up flying again in 1967 and has a commercial flying license. His other
interests include carpentry and golf, though he says he hasn't played as much as he would like. He also collects
Indian artifacts.

The award Maloney received Wednesday night was supposed to be presented at his retirement in May. Instead, it was presented
at the ROTC fall military awards ceremony. "That's the way the military works," Maloney said with a smile.

Other awards presented Wednesday evening were:

Distinguished Military Student: Elmer W. Dyke, Kris A. Fromm, Laren A. Hightower, Robert J. Kmiecik, Paul W. LaDue, William F.
Rast, Michael W. Washburn.

Academic Achievement: Lauren A. Hightower, Andrew Myers, Thomas Ridenhour.

Parachutist Badge (Fort Benning), AirborneHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

School: Jay P. Braun, William W. Kirkpatrick, Robert Lutz; (Fort Bragg) Robert J. Kmiecik, Paul W. LaDue, William F. Rast.
Air Assault Badge (Fort Rucker): Mark Wright. Academic Excellence (Cumulative): James Burson, Wendy Fulks. PMS Commendation: William W. Kirkpatrick. ROTC
Scholarship Ribbon: David Cowie, Steven Gough, Amy Gonder, Michael Snell, Eric Strother.

By ROSS HOLT

A proposal from the Davidson College administration has stirred controversy among students and faculty. The proposal, which was discussed at
a meeting on Friday, aims to address various issues on campus. The meeting saw heated debates, with some attendees expressing
concerns about the potential impact of the changes.

Volume LXIII, Number 10
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, December 7

Faculty Rejects Semester System

By DAVID McGEE

President Frontis Johnston said, "It is important to debate these things to determine what is best for the College." He
agreed that the year of discussions had been good because it allowed for thorough consideration of the issues. However, the
faculty ultimately rejected the semester system by a 68-37 vote, opting to retain the current trimester system.

The motion, introduced by art professor Herb Jackson, sought to maintain the three-course structure of the trimester system. Political Science
professor Thor Kazee agreed that the proposal would have been detrimental to the educational goals of the College.

Volume LXX, Number 16
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina

Alumni Group Seeks To Buy Griffith Street Properties

By ROSS HOLT

A group of Davidson alumni, headed by Howard Covington '17, has begun a long-term plan to improve the Griffith Street
area near Interstate 77. The plan involves purchasing properties on Griffith Street near Sadler Square, demolishing the houses there, and
repurposing the space for the benefit of both the College and the community. Reactions from Griffith Street residents have been
mixed, with some expressing concerns about the impact on their neighborhood.

The Davidsonian offers news, features, sports, and a way to stay on top of events at Davidson College. Subscribe to
The Davidsonian and receive 28 weeks of student life coverage. It's the best way to stay informed about what's happening
on campus. $12 for 28 issues, third class; $23 for 28 issues, first class. Send a check or money order
to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036.

---
