2 Friday, March 30, 1984/The Davidsonian 7

NEWS SUMMARY

Dr. Charles King, Jr. To Conduct Seminar

The Black Student Coalition next week will sponsor the 1984 Martin Luther King, Jr. Lecture Series. The guest lecturer for this year will be Dr. Charles H. King, Jr., who will conduct a seminar on racism. King is the founder and president of the Urban Crisis Center in Atlanta, GA, and has conducted seminars throughout the country. He has recently published his autobiography, Fire in My Bones. The seminar will be held from 2 to 6 p.m. next Wednesday in Chambers Gallery.

McGuire Plant Installs Back-Up System

Questions raised by missing records forced the McGuire Nuclear Power Plant near Huntersville to shut down for four hours on Wednesday, March 14, as workers completed the installation of a mandatory safety back-up system. Duke Power Company spokesman Mary Cartwright described the action as a precautionary move. The situation “was not really as serious as general opinion would have you believe,” she said.

Two independent nuclear facilities, one of which began operation last May, compose the McGuire plant. Both were declared safe for commercial use this month after an initial testing period. The other facility has been in use for over two years. According to Cartwright, the older plant was shut down at the time for refueling and installation of a required back-up safety system, which measures the water level in the reactor. During a routine check of the new plant, workers discovered records missing which indicated the installation of the same safety system in the new facility. Plant officials then took the “very conservative” action of closing that facility as well. According to Cartwright, the reason for the missing records was that the back-up system had not yet been completed in the new plant. After shutting down the plant, workers completed the installation of the system and the facility was operational within four hours.

Public Policy Topic At Open Luncheon

“Morality and Nuclear Weapons” is the title of Dr. Henry Shue’s lecture at 8:00 p.m. on Wednesday, April 4 in the 900 Room. He will also speak on public policy at the Open Luncheon on April 4. Shue graduated from Davidson College in 1961 as a Rhodes Scholar, and received his Ph.D. from Princeton University. He is the author of numerous professional articles and a recent book titled, Basic Rights, Subsistence, Affluence and U.S. Foreign Policy. Currently, he is director of the Center for Philosophy and Public Policy at the University of Maryland. The lectures are open to the public.

German Organist To Perform At Recital

West German organ virtuoso Herbert Manfred Hoffmann will perform an organ recital at 8:15 p.m. today at Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The program will include the Prelude and Fugue in D Major and the Six Chorales, BWV 645-650, by J.S. Bach, and Max Reger’s Organ Sonata No. 2 in D Minor. Hoffmann was born in Silesia in 1930, and began studying at the Institute for Church Music in Heidelberg after World War II. Since 1951 he has been an active church musician in Frankfurt am Main, first at the Emmauskirche and later at the Church of the Holy Spirit. Hoffmann formed the Frankfurter Kantatenkreis, an oratorio chorus, in 1952, and in 1966 he began the Max Reger Festival in Frankfurt. His activities as a conductor and organist have taken him throughout Europe and North America. His current tour is being coordinated by the North Carolina School of the Arts. The Davidson recital is sponsored by the department of music at Davidson College. There will be no charge for admission.

Ratliff Speaks On World Poverty

“The condemnation of poverty in the midst of wealth is scandalous,” said economics Professor Charles Ratliff during his ODE Lecture Wednesday night. “Poverty is an urgent problem that needs to be solved, as three-fourths of the world is living with per capita income of barely $700,” Ratliff said. Ratliff, who was on leave last year to work on his proposal for World Development, has “a new approach for development finance. It is not based on the begging bowl, or short-run legislation but is universal, meaning that both the rich and the poor make a contribution. It is based on...”the: ethic,2* -~idarity of:. humankind.” According to Ratliff, “voluntary financing for development has not worked well. Aid has been based on strategic and political [grounds], not according to economic need.” In addition, he said “compulsory financing is needed” on a global level. Ratliff bases his proposal around a global authority which “can tax, disperse money in the form of expenditures and loans, redistribute income, and increase production” in countries with a low per capita income. “We need a public sector entity to raise revenues. The World Development Fund’s purpose would be to spend [the money] for development, to raise the level of living, and to reduce poverty,” Ratliff said, adding “there is no higher economic purpose than to reduce poverty. We need a global tax gatherer.” The plan entails having “a supranational authority” that countries agree by signing a treaty to abide by. There would be “a matrix organization, not a vertical line of authority.” Thus, there would be “horizontal cooperation within the Board of Directors. Money [for the fund] would be obtained by levying an income tax [of 1% GNP] on countries. Ratliff said even with the new plan, countries would have to “do certain things without consulting the government. They have to make some internal reforms, including land, education, health, social, vocational, and fiscal reforms.” He added, “a lot of issues should be decided at the grassroots such as health care and education. However, some must be done at the global level.” Ratliff, appealing to man to “think in terms of the solidarity of humankind” believes that “all groups could grow and benefit from the plan.” Criticism of the proposed plan includes that “it is antithetic, redundant, and unrealistic, and that it means taxation without representation and inflation without output.” “Yes, it is idealistic,” Ratliff said, “but as someone told me, most worthwhile changes started out that way.”

Warren To Show Paintings In Winston-Salem

Art Professor Russ Warren will show six paintings in an exhibition opening April 6 at the Southeastern Center for Contemporary Art (SECCA) in Winston-Salem, NC. In addition to the exhibit, Warren was among seven artists who received a $2000 fellowship to enable them, according to the SECCA, “to advance their careers as they see fit.” Warren, who found out he had won last year, said while the show would not really change his career, “it is really nice to get that kind of recognition in your own backyard. It means a lot.” He explained that the money and the opportunity to exhibit “are really more of an honor or award.” Art Professor Herb Jackson, who won a fellowship in 1981, sat on the four-member selection panel.

Senate, Honor, CCRL Candidates

Campus elections for class senators, honor council, and CCRL will be held Tuesday. The candidates are:

Sophomore Class Honor Council (3)
Mary van Antwerp, Elizabeth Boone, Jill Boyette, Kathleen Caldwell, Trip Caldwell, Lloyd Chapin, Gene Davis, Mark Gosnell, Michael Holt, Kevin Horan, Allen Johnson, Lucinda Kellam, Laeta Kalogridis, Alex Maultsby, Diana Miller, Dan Murrey, Leigh Neale, Catherine Norton, Jane Royal, Susie Schroeder, Shannon Stowe, Ted Wilson.

Junior Class Honor Council (3)
Jane Aurell, Peter Baay, Kevin Bahr, Woody Burns, Tommy Cardwell, John Clark, Stephen Dockery, Jamie Kiser, Ed Lilly, Nick Lowther, J.P. McBryde, Don O’Malley, Alice Reeves, Frank Roberts, David Stout, Hayes Woollen, Louis Zbinden.

Senior Class Honor Council (3)
Meg Barron, Elizabeth Brooks, Will Cardwell, Kathy Clark, Robert Deaton, Craig Detweiler, Harding Erwin, John Hackett, T. Hartley Hall V, Yates Lennon, Rob McCormick, Joe Park, David Sisk.

Sophomore Class Senator
Chet Barksdale, Steve Baskin, Todd Beddard, Holly Gaston, Pamela Harmann, Bobby Houck, Christie Johnson, Kerry March, David Mathews, Paul Papadopoulos, Shel Robinson, Mark Sandy.

Junior Class Senator
Stuart Gordon, Jennifer Gotto, Edward Hay, Frank Hobart, Roger Kromer, Scott Sekerke.

Senior Class Senator
Warren Gould, Gene Hicks, Tim McGaughey, Mitch Mitchell, Ellen Papadeas, John Peeples, Atondra Williams.

Student Solicitor
Mark Batten, Michael Mauzé, Michael Tantillo.

Defense Advisor
Chris Blake and Tim Waples versus Dickson McClean and Scott Brandon.

Review Board
Monicah McGee, Nate Spell, Mark Williams.

Council on Campus and Religious Life (2)
Elizabeth Brooks, Craig Detweiler, T. Hartley Hall V, Rob McCormick, Joe Park.

Student Conduct Council (2)
Laura Kline, Duncan McCall, Robert McLean, Gardiner Roddey.