Friday, March 16, 1984 / The Davidsonian

15 OPINIONS

Proposals To Improve Campus Security
Malcolm Campbell and Chris Gunn

The Harding House incident was just too close. It is also more than a month behind us and rapidly sliding
into that infamous Davidson brickwork, losing its impact and importance. Both of us — who confronted the potential intruder and
rapist as he left the back porch of Harding House — see the problem fairly clearly. Through our meetings and
contacts with Mayor MacCormac, President Johnston, Grover Meetze, Chief-of-Police Warlick, Chief Hughes, Sue Ross, and the SGA, and through our
continued visions of failures of the security system, we call for three immediate actions.

First, we ask for the creation of a panel to solve the town-college security problems as seen in the dispatching
and responding systems. Why did it take close to fifteen minutes for the police to arrive at Harding House? Why
did police mistakenly arrive at Henderson House first? Why were the calls to the dispatcher not recorded or relayed accurately?
Why didn’t the police officers involved ask for a description of the suspect or for our names? In talking with
various town officials and college administrators, we heard many different answers to these questions and saw several fingers of causality
pointing in a variety of directions. The picture that became clear in our minds is a divided, multi-faceted one. All
these factions need to come together and work on a solution. Thus we call for a panel with town board
members, town police officers, college administrators, college security officers, and students serving as members.

Second, awareness needs to be heightened. Everyone — both students and Davidson residents — must hear about such incidents and
hear about methods of self-protection. Some campus leaders fear embarrassment for rape victims if rapes are publicized. We agree that
the names of the victims need not be publicized. However, the fact that rapes do occur needs to be recognized
by the entire community. For instance, people should know that there were two rapes on campus last year. The image
of Davidson as a safe, serene place need not be totally crushed, but a little reality should be included. Various
freshmen have told us recently that they walked away from orientation with an image of Davidson that resembled a Fantasy
Island rerun. If people choose to leave bikes, cars, and rooms unlocked, to jog alone after dark, or to linger
in obscure places late at night, we would like these people to have at least one small glimpse of a
realistic Davidson. To our amazement, not all the perimeter housing students had heard of a similar incident involving an intruder
found in Harding House fall term. Thus we call for accurate publicity and appropriate discussion of these realities through orientation
presentations, freshmen hall meetings, and accurate news reporting.

Third, in emergencies there is an alternative to the 892-5131 number: 911. This Davidson number (-5131) handles a variety of
problems, including double parking, forgotten keys, intruders, and rapes. But there have been countless times when students have called 892-5131
and have been unable to get an answer. In contrast, the widely used 911 number is designed solely to handle
emergencies. This number not only guarantees an answer, but also a rapid response; the dispatcher at 911 will immediately contact
a nearby police car. Students need to know that in real emergencies, the number they should call is 911.

The Harding House incident was merely the tip of an iceberg. It represents a problematic situation that has existed for
some time now and unless these steps are quickly taken, such incidents could increase not only in number, but also
in severity.

Campbell is a senior biology major from Little Rock, AR. Gunn is a senior psychology major from Peekskill, NY.

Poll Excludes Value Of Athletics
Coach Jim Sypult

The recent faculty survey of Davidson's athletics netted expected results: 80 percent feltThere was too much emphasis on sports, namely
football. Clearly, faculty members are interested in the intellectual development of the students and concerned about expenditures outside their jurisdiction.
The college, however, cannot base policy on the opinions of one interest group whose position is enhanced by eliminating or
reducing another college expenditure, especially when the welfare of the student is concerned. As a football coach, I am concerned
with the intellectual development and well-being. I, too, am a teacher and as a professional wish to respond to the
faculty concerns evidenced in the survey.

— “There may be too many football coaches.” Davidson employs fewer football coaches than any other Southern Conference school. Two
of them serve in dual capacities (athletic director and wrestling coach), and another works without pay.

— “Too much money is spent on recruiting, equipment, travel, and financial aid.” Football has the lowest overall budget in
the Southern Conference in the areas of equipment and travel, and operates on a recruiting budget that’s cut to the
bone. Other schools have full scholarship programs whereas Davidson allots monies to football players only on the basis of need.
Budgets of other men’s sports at Davidson, for the most part, are comparable to Southern Conference schools and therefore, the
teams are more competitive.

— “The football team’s exhaustive practices and schedule consume study time” and “the academic costs are too high.” Football, like
other sports at Davidson, is a demanding activity, but the idea that football lowers academic performance is unproven. Football players
missed three days of classes this year for away games, which was more than the previous season. Still, these absences
are among the lowest of all athletic teams at Davidson.

— Faculty members suggest “joining a new conference and playing schools of similar size and caliber and with similar academic
programs.” This is an excellent suggestion! But due to geographic location, tradition, basketball exposure, and desires of non-revenue sports, the
Trustees have chosen our direction and consequently the Conference has determined our football schedule.

— The football program “cannot compete at the present time unless they are willing to emphasize recruiting and competition more,
which would detract from the college’s purpose.” Why must superior athletes mean inferior students? Superior athletes mean student diversity and
a more even chance against football opponents. Recruiting and competition have nothing to do with lowering academic standards as demonstrated
at Duke, Stanford, and Rice, to name only a few. To say that football players or any other student athletes
lower academic standards is evidence of prejudice and stereotyping.

— Some faculty seem concerned about the value of competitiveness and fear that Davidson's image will be harmed in some
way by competition on the playing field. Is competition in the classroom any different?

— “Sports is one visible area where Davidson standards of excellence are not defined or maintained.” Anything worth doing is
worth doing well. I am a teacher who expects and demands excellence. The fine young men I am associated with
at Davidson strive for excellence and try hard to win when they play. If courage, dedication, effort, attitude, and character
measure excellence, then Davidson’s football players are excellent. If wins measure excellence, the validity of that measurement rests on the
equality of programs. The football program has been defined by the Southern Conference, but not upgraded. So the scales are
unbalanced.

— “Forums and faculty meetings open up channels of communication and allow people to make their cases and reconcile problems.”
Amen. But if we are to seek the truth and make decisions based on the needs and interests of the
students, then coaches and athletes must be represented and heard in order to reach intelligent and fair conclusions.

Sypult is an Assistant Football Coach at Davidson.
