4 Friday, April 13, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Councilmen Carnegie and Ward at Tuesday's meeting.

Fraternities Safe For Now
(continued from page 1)

Tuesday’s Hearing

The Town Council and the Planning Board met with North Main Street residents, as well as fraternity members, fraternity alumni, and the fraternities’ legal representatives. Pete Nichols, of North Main Street, addressed the meeting first. He called the SPE’s “unsatisfactory neighbors,” citing as reasons noise, traffic, unsuitable behavior, and insufficient parking.

The residents’ main concerns included student turnover, which Nichols said made dealing consistently with the fraternity impossible. He was also concerned with property values, which he said the fraternity house’s presence lowered. He said several nearby houses will be going on the market soon, so this was the appropriate time to deal with the fraternity question.

SPE alumnus Philip Leonard '72 responded to Nichols. Leonard, a member of the Alumni Board which owns the SPE house, felt that the existing ordinances provide the town “adequate control over the property,” so the town did not need to alter the ordinance. Leonard said he felt an anti-fraternity move on the part of the town would only increase isolation of the town from college activities.

Joe Delaney '60, a Fiji representative, echoed Leonard’s sentiments. “Davidson College exists in a township that is very closely connected with the College,” he said. He felt that the town had other options in dealing with fraternities.

Brian Evans '72, a member of the Fiji board of Chapter Advisors and the fraternity’s legal representative, conferred with Kline two weeks ago and learned the proposed deletion would not affect the fraternities. At the meeting, he brought that point to the attention of the Council.

Planning Board Member and psychology Professor John Kelton said he had been under the impression that “the fraternities had some sort of right to be there,” and asked for clarification of Randy Stroud whether the proposal applied to the two houses which exist off campus already.

Evans also noted that Fiji had responded to a letter from town Building Inspector William Potts in 1981 which required that they have their house’s non-conforming status reviewed. Town officials had said earlier they were unaware of Fiji's response. Evans said the group had requested a review, but that the town government had tabled it due to more pressing concerns. Though Potts could recall no response, Kline concurred with Evans. SPE apparently did not respond, Kline said.

SPE President Steve MacMillan’s comments were the last of the evening. “We would like to be good neighbors,” he told the gathering. “We want to communicate, we are willing to rectify any problems. We are willing to cooperate.”

The proposal will now go back to the Planning Board. The Board will review it and present it again to the Town Council, which will either vote on it or defer action at its May meeting.

New Bank Opens In Town
(continued from page 1)

personal service as benefits to students. United Carolina also plans to open a branch this summer across from the Ham and Eggs restaurant in Cornelius, next to the I-77 interchange. “We're making a pretty heavy commitment to this area,” Bradford said. “One reason we’re here is that we see the growth starting to happen in this county.”

Investor Plans Hotel
(continued from page 1)

talked to severalcompanies. Currie said he is trying to arrange a meeting with the investor next week when he visits this area. “I’m hoping he can stop off and meet with us on this,” he said. “He’s very optimistic,” Currie added, “but there is the rest of the feasibility study and the lease agreement to negotiate — nothing is set in concrete at this point.”

Kazee Makes Prediction
By TOM SCHILLING

“Mondale will get the nomination and Reagan will beat him.” That is how it stands at the moment, according to political science Professor Thomas Kazee. Kazee spoke on “Candidates’ Political Awareness” Wednesday night in the Morrison Room. The talk centered upon the democratic presidential candidates, Walter Mondale and Gary Hart. Kazee compared their foreign policies and their positions concerning the nuclear arms race in particular.

Kazee depicted Hart and Mondale as very similar candidates. Each is strong in different parts of the country as a result of a common characteristic, “attractiveness.” Hart appeared and became the liberal, younger, more attractive candidate for a long time but has now receded. Originally from Colorado, Hart expects strong support in the West. Mondale has the upcoming Ohio, Maryland, Tennessee, and North Carolina primaries strongly in his favor.

The lecture compared the positions of the candidates on Central America, the Middle East, arms reduction, and defense spending. The conclusion reached was that there is little difference in their views. Kazee included the views of Jesse Jackson. As a result of his assessment of each candidate and of their popularity, Kazee made a few predictions for the upcoming election. “The majority of the delegates left are in states east of the Mississippi,” where Mondale is favored. Unless Hart makes an impressive comeback, Mondale will win the nomination, Kazee said. Of course, the number of delegates may be wavered by the nominating committee if polls show that another candidate is more electable.

Kazee does not expect the Democratic Party to split in November’s election due to its many candidates. The two men are very similar and either will gather most of the other’s support if nominated. Kazee said he feels that the democratic candidates are “activators.” They activate people into going to the polls to vote, he said. Kazee speculated that the country is probably headed for four more years with a Republican president. After that, he asserted, the country will have had eight years of Reagan and a well-known democratic candidate will have a substantial advantage. Hart, he said, may be looking toward 1988.

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’ bring along this money-savin’ coupon.

ORANGE JUICE $1.29
Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants through May 31, 1984. © 1983. Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.

FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.76
Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants through May 31, 1984. © 1983. Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.