12 Friday, September 14, 1984/The Davidsonian

Soccer Loses To Duke, Wake In Close Contests
By BOYD BLACKBURN

Davidson soccer got a feel for the task facing them this year as they lost to Wake Forest 1-0 in their opening game and fell to the Duke Blue Devils 2-0 in Durham Wednesday night. Although Davidson probably has their best team ever, they also face their toughest schedule ever with opponents like Duke, ranked 2nd in the South (7th in the country), and Wake, ranked 6th in the South.

Depth And
By ANDY BARRON

For those of you who are unaware of it, Davidson is quietly developing a top-level soccer program. Last year the Cats were 12-5-3 and finished second in the Southern Conference, despite a poor finish to what was otherwise a stunning season. This year Davidson enters the big time by adding Clemson, N.C. State, and Georgia State to last year’s difficult schedule. The question on everyone’s mind is “Can Davidson handle the competition?”

“I’m optimistic about our chances,” said senior co-captain Jim Wright. “We play a lot of our tough games on the road, which is obviously a disadvantage. Yet I think we have a good chance to beat a really top team like Duke or Clemson. I’m excited about the season.”

Wright and the other co-captain, senior Dave Flowers, are the heart of the defense that also includes sophomores Chris Jones, Sean Moser, and Richard Link. Defense was Davidson’s strength last year and needs to be so again for the Cats to do well.

“The defense needs to play well and I think they will,” said coach Charlie Slagle. “The fact that we have five solid defenders gives us versatility to react to our opponents. If the defense can keep the pressure off our goalies, we should do well.”

The focus of the defense is sophomore goalie Jim Kelly. Kelly played well as a second stringer last year and is famous for his booming drop kicks. Though he punts well, Kelly is also a well-rounded goalie. Whether or not he can play well enough to stop the volatile offenses of Duke, Clemson, and N.C. State will have a big effect on Davidson’s fortunes.

The midfield has changed dramatically from last year. First of all, the Cats will now use three instead of two midfielders. Second, neither of last year's starters return to the midfield. Instead, seniors Mike Lufkin and Steve Bernhardt and junior Billy Coxhead will roam the midfield. All three are experienced and can play the transition game well. Midfield is also an area where the freshmen should help considerably, particularly Steve Ott and Michael Spears. Depth should keep people fresh and hustling.

The area of greatest concern for the Cats is scoring. Not because Davidson can’t score, but because they were inconsistent in their scoring last season, espe-

Serving Men and Women
All Styles
Rocky Kmeicik
Mature

rankings and gunning for the Southern Conference Championship. Third, although only three players have graduated from last year’s team, radical changes in players’ positions give the team a completely different look.

The Wake game began with Davidson goalie Jim Kelly pushing off a Wake Forest header to save a goal. Minutes later, a misplay by a Wake defender gave forward Tony Cabrales a shot on goal which was scooped up.by Wake’s goalie. The game was played evenly, if not roughly, for most of the half. Davidson seemed anxious and hurried in their play and ball handling. They also had some communication problems—both typical of opening games when the team is still trying to find itself and settle down. Their hustle made the difference until a close play off a corner kick fired the Wake team up. For the last 15 minutes of the half, Wake dominated completely and were constantly threatening to score. They found the break they wanted when Wildcat defenders switched assignments, leaving an opponent open near the goal. A quick throw-in and a sharply-angled shot gave Wake the only goal they needed and the only one they would get. 

In the second half, both teams played a lot of kick and run with most of the play in midfield. The Davidson offense was not threatening, as their defense effectively clogged the Wake scoring machine which had opened up on the team last year. The most outstanding play was a save by Kelley off a 20-yard blast by Wake’s left wing. The loss was disappointing but a drastic improvement from last year’s rout.

Wednesday’s Game

Wednesday, the soccer team traveled to Durham for a night game against powerful Duke. There they lost 2-0. Slagle was satisfied with the performance and considered it a big improvement over the Wake game. “Up front, I was very pleased with the opportunities Sean [Austin], Tony [Cabrales], and Wallis [Goodman] gave us.” Unfortunately, Duke scored in less than three minutes leaving Davidson to play catch-up the rest of the game. Their other score came on a cross that was headed in late in the second half. The improved Davidson offense was evident in the stats. Duke’s goalie, Pat Johnston, an All-America candidate this year, had to make six saves compared to Kelly’s five. According to Slagle, Kelly played a “superb” game as did fullback Flowers.

Davidson plays UNCC Saturday at 5 p.m. in the football stadium in the first round of the Charlotte Area Soccer Tournament. Davidson has won this tournament for the past two years. UNCC is also playing against stiffer competition this year. They have lost to both Duke and UCLA (ranked 4th in the nation) by 4-0 counts.

Cats in action Friday

For Davidson to play well, the scoring must come each and every game. This burden falls on capable shoulders. Juniors Tony Cabrales and Sean Austin return after being the team’s top two scorers last season. Joining them is junior Wallace Goodman who played well in midfield last season. If that isn’t enough, the bench is stocked. Senior Mike Mauze, junior Sean Goudie, and sophomores Steve Stith and Brian Shockley are all fine players. It is essential that Davidson’s forwards put points on the board, and plenty of them, so that the rest of the team’s efforts are not wasted.

“We did well last year and I think we're ready to try a tougher schedule,” said midfielder Lufkin. “We might lose to Duke and Clemson. However, if we continued to play teams of a lower caliber, we wouldn't be proving anything. This team is going to try and move up and if we don’t quite make it this year, then whatever we do accomplish this year will be that much of a help to future squads.”

Overall the Wildcats look strong. Solid defense, depth, contributions from the freshmen, and experience in the midfield and at forward should combine to make the 1984 season very successful. Watch out ACC!

Order in advance—Wine and Beer By the case: Cost plus 10% Keg beer: Cost plus 10%

Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St.
Davidson, N.C. 28036
892-7521

Welcome Freshmen: Come see us for a small gift to welcome you.

Rocky Kmeicik