Friday, September 14, 1984 / The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Football Faces Tough Conference Schedule
By STEVE BYERS

To say that the Davidson football team faces a tough schedule in 1984 would be understating matters a little. The Wildcats opened their season last Saturday at Western Carolina. Western, by the way, was chosen by Sports Illustrated to be the best team in NCAA I-AA this year. It doesn’t get any easier, though. On September 29, Davidson travels to Philadelphia to meet the University of Pennsylvania, last year’s Ivy League champions. Homecoming is against The Citadel, which almost upset South Carolina last week. The next Saturday, the Cats stay at home to battle James Madison University, which won only three games last year. Unfortunately, one was against Davidson by a score of 50-0. Then Bucknell comes to town. They beat the Cats 50-7 last season. As if this wasn’t enough, throw in Furman at Furman on November 3. The Paladins, minus David Charpia and Stanford Jennings, may not be the best team in the Southern Conference this year. But they are still quite capable of causing many headaches for the Cats. Get the picture? Davidson could have a great year and still win only four or five games.

By SCOTT HUIE

It is at least some consolation that the Cats kept it respectable in losing last Saturday’s opener against Western Carolina 45-13 in front of nearly 10,000 spectators. Make the Catamounts 47-point favorites, watch all the major publications, including Sports Illustrated, rank them number 1 in the country in Division I-AA football, and what you have are the prospects of the victor’s point total resembling a basketball score rather than a football score. But Davidson did play it close, at least for the first 20 minutes of the game. After falling behind 9-0 in the first quarter, Davidson roared back with a 30-yard drive, capped off by a 7-yard touchdown burst up the middle by senior fullback Mike Longmire. But before you could say upset, Western unveiled Div. I-AA’s answer to Anthony Carter in the

Hockey Fields
By ANDY BARRON

Every sports fan has heard the cliché: “We have a really young team.” Every coach uses it. Nevertheless, it applies to Davidson’s field hockey team. “We are a young team and are faced by the problems that confront every young team,” coach Daley said. “We’re inexperienced and are more easily intimidated than an older team would be. However, I am confident that we will improve with each game. We will hold our own.” The Cats will be led by a strong defense. Anchoring the defense will be sophomore sweeper Heather McKee and two of the team’s three senior captains, Lou Hamilton and Kara Gilmore. Behind this line will be junior goalie Binney Jannetta. Sophomore Polly Northen also plays defense, which will be under a lot

Wait. There’s more good news. Sophomore Mike Cate led the Cats in rushing last year. However, Cate sustained a severe neck injury against Catawba and will be unable to play this season. Along with senior Bob Letton, whose injuries also prevent him from any further competition, Cate will serve as a student coach. Senior Bob Coxe, expected to start at tight end this fall, left the team because of conflicts with his Pre-Med major. As for healthy players, the offense should be more diversified and exciting this year. Senior co-captain Jeff Haney, who replaces Keith Martin at quarterback, says, “People are going to be surprised at the way we’ve opened things up. We’re going to make the defense cover the whole field.” Sophomores Eric McClarity and Billy Waitsman will be catching the passes this year, for last season’s starting split ends have graduated. In the backfield, junior Horace Manor and senior Mike Longmire will share time at fullback. Manor is bigger and faster, but Longmire has a knack for scoring touchdowns which comes in handy. Senior halfback David Turner will be a big, big plus for the offense if he can stay healthy. Junior Jay Poag, one of the best and most versatile athletes for the Cats, is the starting wingback. Sophomore Mike Jones also took some snaps last year. Hence, look for a lot more passing and less grinding-it-out on offense.

The defense was a little less hurt by graduation, though it did lose three lettermen at linebacker. Senior Jerry May and juniors Micah Downing and Chuck Goff will handle the linebacking for Davidson this fall. Elsewhere, the defensive backfield is anchored by senior D.D. Wright, juniors Doug Neil and Tony Smith, and sophomore Gary Stewart. The secondary should be very quick but relatively inexperienced. They will be tested early and often.

What about the offensive and defensive lines? Coach Ed Farrell claims that “these are the best lines we’ve had in years.” Haney says, “It’s the best offensive line I’ve seen here, and the defensive line is great.” One of the reasons for all the praise is the return of senior D.E. Wright at outside linebacker/defensive end. Wright didn’t play most of last season due to injury and he was missed. Against Western last week, he was all over the field, causing fumbles and intercepting passes. Both lines are experienced, big, and relatively quick. Sophomore defensive end Marcus Allen gives the Cats two formidable ends, while junior noseguard Ralph Steding and senior tackle (and three-year letterman) Kirk Gavel will more than hold their own in the trenches.Form of senior wide receiver Eric Rasheed. The 5’8” speedster took the ensuing kickoff, juked around a couple of Davidson would-be tacklers, and raced for a 96-yard touchdown. The lead now stood at 17-7 and was upped to 24-7 by halftime. Rasheed returned in the third quarter to put the game out of reach, converting a halfback pass into a 42-yard touchdown. The Catamounts scored twice more, the most disappointing on a blocked punt which was returned 41 yards for a touchdown. The Cats’ final score came late in the game on a three-yard pass from backup quarterback Steve Bradley to senior halfback David Turner.

Offensively, standouts included the fullback tandem of Longmire and Horace Manor, whose combined rushing accounted for 92 yards, and Turner, who rushed for 32 yards and caught four passes for 29 yards. Defensively, free safety Roger Smythe got in on 11 tackles, and end D.E. Wright, the team’s rock, butted heads nine times. The Catamounts turned the ball over a whopping seven times, but the Cats could capitalize only twice. Nevertheless, coach Ed Farrell saw some encouraging signs. “Physically, we matched up pretty well with them,” he said. “They just had better execution and much more team speed. If you’re not perfect against these guys, you're not going to win, and we definitely were not that.”

The offensive line is dominated by juniors and seniors, all of whom are proven and quite sizable. Nevertheless, they will be overmatched in a few of the games. So, it’s bottom line time. What will Davidson do this season? Barring a major upset or two, they will again finish under .500. I think they will be a fun team to watch, though, with a lot more passing and a more imaginative offensive scheme. Don’t let the Western score fool you. The defense played a lot better than the score indicates. The offense had trouble moving the ball deep in Western territory but looked very good at times. But the Western game really was not a fair opener for the Cats; after all, they are the best team in the country, so the schedule is downhill from here, in a sense.

Besides the schedule, Davidson's biggest weaknesses are a lack of depth and a very small freshman class (23), the types of shortcomings which usually come back to haunt a team. This team has a lot of optimism and “heart” (in Haney’s words), though, which could compensate for a lot of things. Farrell's philosophy is not to worry about your opponent, but instead to concentrate on what you do best and go out and do it. If the Cats can accomplish that this fall, who knows what could happen?

With weeks of summer practice and one game under his belt, Farrell assessed the team’s chances this year: “As a whole, the team is better than last year’s. We lost a lot at the skilled positions, but both our offensive and defensive lines are vastly improved. Our schedule is the toughest it has ever been and we know we go into many games overmatched. But this team has a remarkable attitude. If football were a poker game, I think we may accomplish what we set out to do with three cards when the other guy has got five.”

Now, let’s set the record straight before anyone blames the loss on the astroturf or even the night lights. The measure of success for Davidson football is not always wins, but rather weekly progress. “My goal for us,” says Farrell, “is a better football team next week.” What it all boils down to is simply a matter of priorities. You might even call last Saturday's loss a moral victory of sorts. We beat the point spread by 15, and really, the odds of Davidson winning this one were about equal to the chances of a freshman hall making it through the year without a mixer. Vince Lombardi may be rolling over in his grave when I say this, but winning isn't everything here at Davidson. But when it does happen, cherish it.

Fortunately, you just might be able to do that tomorrow as the Cats take on Division III rival Guilford (1-0) in the home opener. Davidson leads the series 15 to 3 and won last year’s contest 33 to 17. Said Farrell, “They are a bunch of scrappers and they always move the ball well against us.” Expect a high-scoring affair, and the Cats should come out of it with their first victory of the season.