10 Friday, April 20, 1984 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, David Resnik, Associate Editors
Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Randy Stroud, Photography Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager
Ross Holt, Editor

Fellowship

If I told you what it takes to reach the highest high,
You'd laugh and say “nothing is that simple”
But you've been told manyLaura McGee, Anderson Scott, Mike Snell, Bruce von Stein; Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey. Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt. Production Staff: Kevin Horan. Compositors: Anne Lambert, Lisa Lano, Rob Pool, Jorgia Rice, Frank Roberts, Debby Williams. Copy Editing: Christine Jackson. Circulation: David McGurry. Manager: Se martyrdom? Grosh fellas... Don’t know if that one counts!

LETTERS

BSC

To the Editors:

Regarding the article by the Black Student Coalition in last week’s Davidsonian: In the first sentence of their article, the BSC states that “we have decided to cease our disgruntled murmurings and act.” Yet, in the next paragraph, they assert: “It is not up to us to figure out for you how to do what we ask; we can only say that we are tired of waiting.” And shortly thereafter: “Now, Davidson, it’s up to you. And we will not wait any longer for the things that should have been done long ago.”

We feel that the BSC is not ready to act; on the contrary, they are merely ready to demand. The college has already given the BSC not only a house and renovations but also $5,300 this year from the college’s Activities Tax Council (that’s more than the SGA gets!). The tone of the BSC’s letter is reminiscent of a spoiled child who has already received much and yet cries for more. BSC, we ask you: Will you present us with concrete reasons for your demands and viable means for their implementation, and show Davidson that you have the commitment to work for them, or will you continue in this fashion?

Paul Weiss
David Gaston

To the Editors:

Without much effort, I have found yet another Davidson phenomenon that rarely receives the praise it deserves: Outdoor Adventures. These occasional rafting, hiking, and camping treks, which are sponsored by the Outing Club and Housing Office, offer a chance to leave the classroom behind and to learn some valuable, non-academic lessons. Besides that, you can have a hell of a lot of fun.

During spring break, I cruised down to Cumberland Island with a group of 15 people on a trip organized through the Housing Office. Not only did we get to explore a wildly gorgeous island, chase simple-minded armadillos, play frisbee on the beach, climb the spooky live oaks, consume large quantities of GORP, and stalk a six-and-a-half-foot alligator; we also got a chance to learn about ourselves, about a different ecosystem, about other people, about those infamous catholes, and about the functioning of a group. Last week’s Outing Club raft trip had similar success for nearly 20 students. In talking to some post-rafters, I was told the trip was “cosmic,” as well as “a great way to get back in touch with Nature.” Again, participants stressed the value of getting away from Davidson and getting to enjoy a non-academic setting.

I applaud both the skilled leaders of these memorable outings and the adventurous students who participate. A college education, I believe, is hardly complete without such experiences.

Chris Gunn

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from our readers. We require that letters be signed and include the author’s address and phone number. All letters must be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday. We reserve the right to edit letters for length and clarity. The Davidsonian does not in any way endorse the opinions expressed in the letters it publishes.