6 Wednesday, December 12, 1984/The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

1984 More Or Less Parade Of Homes

Poems are made by fools like me
But only God can make a dorm.
—“Dorms,” by Joyce Kilmer

The 1984 More-or-Less Holiday Parade of Homes committee has searched far and wide for the quintessence of Davidson College residential
life. Sifting through the mountains of nominations was a challenge, yet the committee feels the effort was not wasted. Here
we present a collection of photographs — mere reproductions of very special places, we admit — which aspire to convey
a sense of the remarkable experience some call Dorm Life.

A word about the places we have chosen to include in our Parade: if your room was not included in
this year’s Parade, please know that space limitations sorely limited the number of residences we could bring to these pages.
Two facts to remember: life is not always fair, and besides — there’s always next year’s Parade.

Now, to the homes!

A Curious Phenomenon

The thing about this year’s homes is that they are all inhabited and conceived by male students. The committee realized
early on in the selection process that Davidson men view their rooms as assertions of their masculinity; the Virility Index
increases in direct proportion to the number of wiring extravaganzas and fire hazards present in a room. We narrowed our
focus to explore further this phenomenon, and the rooms you see reflect this focus.

Stop No. 1: Bar as Way of Life

In their chic Watts apartment, seniors Garry Banks, Blake Carpenter, and Robert Heglar have created a techno-pleasure palace without parallel.
Devoting one room to rest and the other to play, they illustrate the principle that more is more. More plywood,
more beer bottles, more flags, more more. Their bar reflects that early ’70s trend toward built-ins: built-in TV, speakers, Pong,
and telephone. Greg Brady never had it so good. This is a socially aware group, despite their wanton surroundings: “We
don’t give alcohol to minors,” Heglar said.

Stop No. 2: Barcalounger — Yes!

The trio of Hunter Roddey, Forrest Ransom, and John McGuirt possess one of the mighty emblems of dorm life, the
vinyl lounge chair. Their Duke den of iniquity (“Reckless Indulgence,” or something similar they call it) boasts cordless phones, light
dimmers, Auschwitz-style bunk beds, and a student-built wall divider. It would be nothing, though, without The Chair. There it sits,
brown and plastic and adjustable, gleaming through its duct tape repairs. A true hand-me-down, it is the basis for any
fine dorm room.

Stop No. 3: Belk Dorm, or How to Rebel Against Everything Mom Taught You

We all recognize it immediately, L’eau de Belk: socks, beer, and other smells all combined. That rich compost of scent
makes sense once you get a view of a Belk room, of any Belk room. One we visited has all
the elements Mother would cringe to see: the Refrigerator of Indulgence, the Confederate Flag of Reactionary Thought, and the Lawn
Furniture of Improper Use. These are the things no young high school student would ever be caught dead with in
his room at home; it’s college, it’s Belk Dorm, it’s independence which brings forth these things. We found all three
regularly in Belk dorm rooms; like the brown vinyl chair, these are staples of dorm life.

Stop No. 4: Sin

Bunk beds are nice, a loft is interesting, but a waterbed is downright lascivious. It occurred to the Parade of
Homes committee that this is the gem to be worked up to; what begins as a Refrigerator of Indulgence ends
as a Waterbed of Ecstasy. We would posit that waterbeds in College housing represent a pinnacle of suaveness, a “therapy
for the back” which is probably much more. The committee would like to be proved wrong, but it cannot deny
the heritage of the waterbed — honeymoon resorts in the Poconos, lesser motels, satin sheet sets. The owner of a
waterbed moves into a world no mother could tolerate, and it is thus a classic symbol of the dorm-centered Good
Life.

Stop No. 5: Alternative Life-styles

Amid this glamour, we found one scene of ascetic living, the hall of First West Belk. Five young men have
eschewed all the trappings of fast living in favor of Professor Shi’s Simple Life. No TV, no bar, no refrigerator,
no Rebel Flag of Reactionary Thought. In fact, we wonder how these men sleep at all; vertical beds reduce floor
space, true, but this sacrifice for simplicity’s sake seems a bit extreme. We commend them, however, for their understanding of
the truly important. For this reason we present the Holiday Parade of Homes Integrity Award to the Beds of First
West Belk, and it is on this note that we conclude this year’s pilgrimage.

So much depends on a College dorm room
Covered with dirty clothes
Beside the white Chamber maids.

— “The College Dorm,” by William Carlos Williams

The Simple Life

Anne Meador

Anne Meador
