6 Friday, February 3, 1984 / The Davidsonian

George Curry Brings

Charles Dickens To Davidson

By CHRISTINE JACKSON

Dramatist George Curry gave an energetic one-man performance of Charles Dickens’s Great Expectations to a small but attentive audience Wednesday night in Hodson Hall.

With an almost bare stage and in Dickensian costume, Curry created an unmistakably Victorian atmosphere in a faithful representation of one of the period’s best-known novels. His changeable voice, facial expressions, and hand gestures made the characters leap to life.

Curry presented a diverse array of figures, from the innocent young Pip to the gruff and startling convict Magwitch. He portrayed each with perceptive accuracy, including the mysterious, feeble old Miss Havisham.

Among his best scenes are the tender dialogues between Pip and his brother-in-law Joe, “always the best of friends.” At a reception following the program, Curry said, “Joe’s a difficult character because he’s such an idiot.” Nevertheless, Curry played him expertly.

Curry has performed in Europe, the United States, and Australia, most recently in Charleston, S.C. Since retiring two years ago, he has devoted himself seriously to developing his Great Expectations.

His favorite Dickens character to portray is Marigold in the little-known story “Dr. Marigold.” “I’m sure of my audience with Marigold,” Curry said.

His interest in Dickens began with a visit to the house in which Dickens died in Kent, England, where Curry grew up. Curry told of how the novelist enacted his own stories. He was “a tremendous audience man. He loved being on the stage.” The table Curry read from Wednesday was an exact replica of the one Dickens used.

Although Dickens commonly performed such favorites as A Christmas Carol and David Copperfield, he never presented publicly Great Expectations because he was unable to keep the performance length to two hours. Curry also limits himself to two hours including an intermission. He feels that “Great Expectations is the best book to adapt.”

Looking for a part-time job?
Openings for hard workers at

UNITED PARCEL SERVICE

Applications to be accepted at United Parcel Service — (Corner of I-85 and North Graham) in Charlotte

Interviews at the United Parcel Service on:
Wednesday, February 8, 4-6 p.m.

Pay: $8.00 per hour 15 to 20 hours per week

Monday through Friday
Excellent benefits

Additional inquiries or information available through Careers Office

Equal Opportunity M/F

War Games Lacks Ethics

By JEFFREY MANN

War Games Directed by John Badham. Starring Matthew Broderick, Ally Sheedy, Dabney Coleman, and John Wood. Rated PG. Rating: ***

War Games is the movie that almost everybody liked last summer. Parts of it are good, just like most people said. It’s a yippee, fun-time movie about accidental nuclear obliteration, if you can believe that.

Believability is actually one of the movie’s problems. The story concerns a lonely whiz kid who stumbles onto a defense department computer while mucking around corporate America’s computer banks looking for some games to play. Ted Koppel is concerned that something like this might really happen, and if Ted Koppel’s worried, so am I.

Not to worry, though. The campus computer I’m writing this article on is harder to break into than the one Matthew Broderick accesses with one lucky guess. I also doubt that NORAD allows tour groups of kids and old ladies to wander through the most sensitive room in the American defense system, as War Games would have us believe.

Technology, however, is the real star of this film, even though it’s sort of watered down. The humans give good performances as well. Dabney Coleman (TV’s Buffalo Bill, America’s favorite twit) is perfect as the red-faced security officer. Newcomers Broderick and Ally Sheedy as his girlfriend (sort of) look like newcomers but still pull it off.

What bothers me most about this film is the attitude taken toward the main character. He’s a misunderstood hero who spends his spare time ripping off AT&T and various computer companies. There seems to be nothing wrong with breaking into a computer file and stealing a program, or using a black box to steal long-distance calls. He’s just a mischievous kid who only goes wrong when he accidentally almost blows up the world.

This portrayal doesn’t detract from enjoying the film, however, and War Games certainly is worth seeing. It has a thrilling chase scene, pretty graphics, and you might learn how to call home for free.

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’ bring this MONEY-SAVING coupon.

STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND ORANGE JUICE $1.29

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants through May 31, 1984.

© 1983, Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.

FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants through May 31, 1984.

© 1983, Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.