2 Friday, April 20, 1984 / The Davidsonian

South Asian Studies To Hold India Week

The South Asian Studies department will host a variety of activities during “India Week,” next Monday through Thursday. All of
the activities, open to the public without charge, will be held in the College Union.

“The series of activities is part of Davidson’s increased efforts to expose its students to the diverse cultures of the
world,” said history Professor Job. I. Thomas, director of South Asian Studies. “The increased presence in the United States of
Asian Indians and other ethnic groups in recent times has added a rich dimension to our pluralistic cultural scene,” he
added.

At 4 p.m. Monday in the Morrison Room, Dr. Shubh Kumar, senior research staff member of the International Food Policy
Research Institute in Washington, D.C., will speak on “The Role of Women in Agricultural Production.”

At 4 p.m. Tuesday in the 900 Room, Vatsala Rajagopalan will present a “Carnatic Music Concert.” Rajagopalan, a graduate of
the University of Madras, will sing a variety of Indian classical music.

At 4:30 p.m. Wednesday in the 900 Room, Sharon Lowen will present a workshop on Odissi dance, a classical dance
of northeastern India. Lowen has studied under the well-known guru, Padmashri Kelucharan Mahapatra, one of the main architects of the
contemporary Odissi repertoire and teacher of almost all of today’s well-known Odissi dancers. Her performances during her seven years in
India have been received with high acclaim.

Thursday at 4 p.m. in the 900 Room, Lowen will perform a program of Odissi-Classical dance of northeastern India. At
7:30 p.m. that evening, a film entitled "The Master Potters of India" will be shown in the Morrison Room.

Pastor-In-Residence Program Brings Bridgeman

The Rev. Stewart Bridgeman ’58, director of the Coalition for the Appalachian Ministry, will visit Davidson next Wednesday through Friday
under the auspices of Davidson’s Pastor-In-Residence program. At 7 p.m. Friday in the Morrison Room, Bridgeman will meet informally with
student organizations.

Davidson's Pastor-In-Residence program seeks to expose students to various special Christian ministries. Bridgeman’s visit is being co-sponsored by the Davidson
Chapel Committee and the Staley Foundation.

Organizations Sponsor Donations To Haiti

Davidson College student organizations and the Davidson community will sponsor “Give a gift that grows” for Mother’s Day. Proceeds will
go to plant trees in Haiti, the poorest nation in the Western Hemisphere. A $5 donation will allow local Haitians
to plant 50 eucalyptus seedlings (or to purchase 7,000 eucalyptus seeds). A $10 donation will plant 100 trees.

“Give a gift that grows” is an alternate giving project for the national organization, “Care for the Earth.” Money raised
through the project will help to revitalize Haiti's environment, teach ecological concepts, and provide jobs for Haitian people in nurseries.
Davidson eating houses, the Y Service Corps, the Davidson chapter of the national service fraternity Alpha Phi Omega, The Public
Interest Research Group (PIRG), and various community churches and organizations are sponsoring the program. Those interested in donating should contact
Ruth Pittard.

Davidson To Host Medical Symposium

Davidson College will host an alumni medical symposium, “Health Professions and the Liberal Arts” next Thursday and Friday. Dr. James
A. Pittman, Jr., ’48, dean of the University of Alabama School of Medicine, will speak on “Health Professions: A Scientific
and Technological Perspective” at 8:15 p.m. Thursday in the Vail Commons.

At 8:50 p.m., Dr. Carleton B. Chapman ’36, chairman of philosophy and history of medicine at Albert Einstein College of
Medicine, will speak on “Health Professions: Restructuring Undergraduate Preparation.”

At 9 a.m. Friday in the Gallery of Chambers Building, Ben D. Barker '54, dean of the University of North
Carolina School of Dentistry, will preside over a panel discussion, “Alumni Responses to Perspectives on Health Professions and the Liberal
Arts.” Panel members will include Dr. John H. Felts, associate dean for admissions at Bowman Gray School of Medicine at
Wake Forest University; Dr. James M. Fredericksen, chairman of the premedical/predental program here; and Vice-President of Academic Affairs and Dean
of Faculty T.C. Price Zimmerman.

At 11 a.m. Friday in J. Spencer Love Auditorium, Dr. Edmond D. Pellegrino, director of the Joseph and Rose Kennedy
Institute of Ethics at the Medical Center at Georgetown University, will speak on “Medical Ethics and the Liberal Arts.”

At 2:15 p.m. in the Vail Commons, Dr. Theodore R. Oldenburg ’54, chairman of the department of pedodontics at the
school of dentistry at UNC-Chapel Hill, will speak on “Technological Advances: Impact on Dentistry.”

NEWS SUMMARY

At 3:30 p.m., Dr. Michael E. Mahla ’75, director of neuroanesthesia at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, will...speak on “Computer-Assisted
Diagnosis of Central Nervous System Dysfunction in the Operating Room.”

President Kuykendall To Speak Thursday

President-elect John Kuykendall will speak on “The Place of Vision in Leadership” next Thursday at 9:30 in the 900 Room.
He is expected to outline some of his hopes for the College under his leadership. Following the talk, there will
be a reception in the Morrison Room. Both are open to the public. The Philanthropic Literary Society is sponsoring Dr.
Kuykendall’s visit. Also on Thursday, Dr. Kuykendall will attend a wine reception at 5:45 p.m. in the DuPont Room of
the Commons followed by a banquet at 6:00 p.m. Phi Society member junior Meg Surrat said that several student leaders
have been invited for the purpose of getting to know the new president and to allow “greater input for student
needs.”

Senior Skit Gets Underway

Seniors are beginning work on the traditional Senior Class Skit. Interested students should meet in the Morrison Room at 5:00
p.m. on Monday for an organizational meeting. Writers, actors, stagehands, and technicians are needed. Contact Doug Ammar for more information.

New Quips and Cranks Editors Named

The SGA approved freshmen Kathleen Micham and Jane Campbell as editors for next year’s Quips and Cranks. Micham and Campbell
were the only students who signed up earlier this month for a run-off election to decide the editors. This sign-up
became necessary when no one signed up to run in the December elections for publications editors. “We hadn’t anticipated that
anyone else would sign up,” said SGA President John Laughlin, “because no one signed up in the winter.” Micham and
Campbell will replace current editors Catherine Finnegan and Jim Morgan.

FCA To Sponsor “Fun Run”

The Davidson Fellowship of Christian Athletes will hold a “Fun Run” Saturday, April 28 at the Davidson track to raise
money for needy Davidson families and an 11-year-old boy the organization sponsors in India. A team of eight to ten
runners from the FCA will alternate running the track for twelve hours, from 6:30 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. Each runner
will run approximately one mile each hour. Runners will consist of cross-country runners, professors Maydole and Kazee, and “other people
willing to commit themselves to training,” according to team organizer Frank Hague. Hague also encouraged students to find their own
sponsors and participate as well, for as long as they wish. Forms to record sponsors are available from Hague, Bob
Watkins, and Kenny Wilson. Those students wishing to run should contact one of the three before Friday, but Hague said
that this is not required. “It’s not that formal a thing. If somebody decides they want to run, they should
grab a sponsor and come out.” The Fun Run has been sponsored by alumni, firms in Charlotte, and local businesses,
including the new United Carolina Bank. The team has solicited few pledges from students. “We've really tried to allow students
to sponsor each other,” Hague said. The FCA hopes to raise between $700 and $800.

Reagan Education Budget Cuts Financial Aid

(CPS) — The Reagan administration last week unveiled what it hailed as the largest federal education budget in U.S. history,
but which in fact amounts to a small cut in student financial aid. In the new proposal, the administration asked
Congress to appropriate some $6.5 billion for student aid, but asked them to change the rules for distributing it. This
request will make federal funds more difficult to obtain. College lobbyists in Washington estimate the rule changes could translate into
a loss of more than a million grants and loans during the 1984-85 academic year. President Reagan’s new aid budget
means “students will have to borrow a lot more and work a lot more,” said Peter Rogoff, head of the
National Coalition of Independent College and University Students. Changes in the ways students can get Pell Grants would eliminate 300,000
of the grants, meaning more students would have to go into debt with student loans, said Kathy Ozer, lobbyist for
the United States Student Association. The important difference in this year’s budget is in the way it is to be
distributed. The dollar amount will follow closely to previous budgets. The president proposed “pretty much the same budget in fiscal
1985,” said National Education Association President Mary Futrell. But to Education Secretary Terrel Bell, who announced the budget, its key
is attitude. “The administration is again proposing a major philosophical shift in federal student aid,” he told assembled reporters, “a
return to a traditional emphasis on parents’ and students’ responsibility for financing college costs.”
