8 Friday, October 26, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Hitchcock Festival To Poke, Prod, And Entertain

By MATT MORRIS

It’s like Christmas in October. The Pop and Fine Films committees are showing five Hitchcock classics this week, and every
one of them guarantees grand entertainment. From Hitchcock’s first American film, Rebecca, through Notorious’ devilish spy vs. spy escapades, followed
by the psychological turmoil of Spellbound, and concluding with perhaps his two finest films, Psycho and Rear Window, you simply
can’t afford to miss any of these movies. They poke, prod, and ultimately manipulate the viewer into their exhilarating environments.
The last two films especially show Hitchcock as a strikingly original social commentator, staring coldly at our fantasies — particularly
sexual — and the schisms that erupt from these obsessions. Hitchcock is not at all pleased with 20th-century mankind, and
each film shows his irony and satire take darker and darker turns. And, on the level of “pure fun,” you
don’t get many better movie experiences.

Rebecca

With Rebecca (1940), Hitchcock left his native England after making movies there for almost 20 years. Or did he? In
spite of the “David O. Selznick presents” intro card, Rebecca is about as “Hollywood” as the London Bridge. With a
mostly English cast (those who aren’t use fake accents), Rebecca roams through a foggy English estate, delighting in vicious paranoia
and, in a theme that comes to fruition in later films, an obsession with the dead. To reveal Rebecca's plot
in a review such as this would spoil a great film. Just go see it, and keep your eye on
Joan Fontaine's heart-breaking performance.

Spellbound

Jumping ahead a few years we see an artist in transition, moving from wartime melodrama to something only hinted at
in Rebecca. With Spellbound (1945), Hitchcock juggles Freudian neuroses and a kind of sexual redemption. Gregory Peck is the amnesiac
Dr. Edwardes, the director of a mental institution. Believing that once during some schizophrenic fit he murdered a man, Edwardes
seeks the cerebral, and ultimately emotional, care of Dr. Constance (Ingrid Bergman), a fellow psychologist. Horn-rimmed, logical, and coldly academic,
Constance, like so many characters who exist as emotional crutches in Hitchcock films, needs as much support and mental comfort
as the patient. Eventually, but not without conflict (including a Salvador Dali dream sequence), both characters discover love, and each
other — Edwardes finds his sanity and Constance, her femininity. If the film itself seems a bit cold, that may
be attributed to its subject matter — psychoanalysis. But Hitchcock takes many daring steps with Spellbound.

Notorious

Immediately following Spellbound came Notorious, and again we see Hitchcock dealing with “redemption by love” as Eric Rohmer put it.
Again starring Ingrid Bergman, this time opposite Cary Grant, Notorious pits Alicia (Bergman), a spoiled child-woman who keeps a list
of “playmates,” against the suave spy Devlin (Cary Grant). Devlin is a man with principles and, above all else, independence.
Will Alicia, who is aware of Devlin’s clandestine investigations, turn him into the Nazis, or will she take responsibility for
her life and leave the Gestapo criminals she leisurely idles with? As the intrigue unrolls, Alicia melts under Devlin’s power
and becomes an individual, but not without plenty of hair-raising excitement and a face-off with one of the baddest Germans
ever, in the form of Claude Rains. As with all his war films, Hitchcock’s Nazis are clearly the villains, but
not stereotypically so — Rains is as pathetic as he is diabolical. And the camera should almost be included in
the cast list — everywherewe turn (or rather, everywhere the director turns us), suggestive points of view lurk. A strange,
romantic film (there are only two love scenes, both highly sensual), Notorious shows Hitchcock at his best.

Psycho

Psycho presents a modern-day Hitchcock. Still the most delightfully repulsive, hilarious “horror” film ever made, and one of the cheapest,
Psycho probes deep into the twisted minds of an innocent, Marion Crane (Janet Leigh), and a psychotic, Norman Bates (Tony
Perkins). From the start, Hitchcock emphasizes an obsession with the dead. Both Crane and Bates share a devotion to their
mothers. At the beginning of the film, Marion is seen impassionately embracing her lover; she is careful to turn the
picture of her dead mother on the mantle around to avoid any guilt feelings. Norman devotes his entire attention to
his mother’s well-being, right down to murdering for her. One critic has noted, too, that the word “Marion” is a
close anagram for the word “Norman.” Both characters are constantly shown as standing next to a mirror — double images
— two people in one body. Eventually, their lives intersect, the point of view following Marion, then halfway jumping into
Norman’s mind. Psycho’s stark black and white photography (shot by a TV crew) gives the film a strange, disquieting, other-worldliness
that only adds to the mystery. A “fun picture,” as Hitchcock said, Psycho has enough ingenious suspense to keep anyone
watching, but there’s more to this film than cinematic devices. The overall feeling Psycho evokes is one of sad depersonalization
and the psychological reactions that are produced. Terrifying.

Rear Window

Rear Window (1954), shows the filmmaker vigorously using the tools of his trade to make profound observations on voyeurism and
sexual frustration. Almost the entire film is told from the viewpoint of Jefferies (Jimmy Stewart), a reporter convalescing with a
broken leg. Jefferies witnesses a murder while gazing out of his apartment window — or does he? Confined as the
film's setting is, the camera does marvels — slow motion, long pans, and rhythmic, hand-held action sequences. John Michael Hayes’
script has a rare sophistication. At the sight of Stewart idly viewing the next apartment with his telescopic camera, one
character grumbles, “We've become a race of peeping Toms... we all ought to get outside and look at our own
windows, sometime!” A humorous comment, but one that is rather savage in the context of the film. Jeffries discovers a
murder that may or may not have happened (he can’t be sure) and yet immediately condemns the police for not
taking action. Furthermore, Jeffries and his girlfriend Lisa (Grace Kelly) resemble in one way or another every one of the
occupants of the building Jeffries observes. A childless couple who pour their affection into a dog, a pair of lonely
hearts, a passionately loving duo of newlyweds, and a passionately bitter — and ultimately murderous — couple, all present possible
“roads” for the hero and his companion to take. If we ever decide to “get out and take a look
at our own windows,” Hitchcock suggests, we may be in for a surprise. Forcing us to look at ourselves —
our paranoias and our passions — is exactly what a Hitchcock movie is all about.
