Friday, May 4, 1984 / The Davidsonian

SGA Passes Budget Despite Publications’ Protest

(continued from page 1)

Campbell stated that a further $1,300 would be given on ATC approval to Quips and Cranks. The money would come from an excess the Miscellany has built up over several years. College Business Manager Bob Currie explained there was over $3,000 in the fund and that no one was really aware of it. He has ordered that the money be returned to the ATC fund.

Hobart Park's funding was cut in half, and the magazine will only be able to put out one issue next year. According to ATC members, next year will be a “testing period” for Hobart Park because only one issue of the magazine will be printed this year, but it will consume the whole $4,000 budget granted last year. ATC members cited this as a determining factor in their decision. “They used it ($4,000) for one issue which was not even a double-issue,” Kim said. “And they decided to spend $1,133 for three color pictures. The money didn’t go to printing more submissions.”

Hobart Park co-editor Darryl Cooper felt that the magazine is being punished for the mistakes of the previous editors. “I think the ATC is wrong to put the blame on the ideas of Hobart Park because that’s not where the blame lies.”

Some ATC members also questioned the demand for Hobart Park among students. “I question how many students at Davidson read Hobart Park,” said ATC member Stuart Gordon. He felt that the magazine should justify additional funds through clearly showing student demand and participation.

Davidsonian editor Ross Holt countered by citing several campus organizations in which student benefit could not be easily quantified. The SGA and BSC were among those Holt mentioned. “I think you would be hard-pressed to prove how many people read it (Hobart Park) and enjoyed it,” he said. Holt went further to say, “The Davidsonian feels like the ATC did not look at the big picture and general interests of the College.”

The Davidsonian received a $1,300 cut, but according to editors David McGee and Holt, it did not protest the ATC allocations on financial grounds. “We don’t question the ATC allocation of funds to us. We aren’t asking for an increase. We question it on certain principles,” Holt said. According to McGee, “The burden of cuts was placed on publications. Nearly every publication has been cut.”

SGA President John Laughlin defended the ATC in this matter by noting that student publications make up over half of the total ATC budget, so they would logically bear the brunt of funding cuts. McGee denied that The Davidsonian requested increased funding in order to print more pages next year. Kim said the ATC got the impression that The Davidsonian wanted to expand the number of pages it publishes next year. “What right does the ATC have to tell editors when and how much they can publish?” McGee asked.

The senators voting in favor of approval were: Beadsie Woo, Edward Hay, Jennifer Gotto, Mark Sandy, Chet Barksdale, Bill Hall, Jim Reaves, and Dick Lee. Senators voting against were: Warren Gould, Shel Robinson, Laura McGee, Tim McGaughey, Lewis Zbinden, and Duncan Fraser. Senators John Peeples, Atondra Williams, Gene Davis, Mark Nottingham, Holly Gaston, and Juleigh Sitton were absent. Senator Frank Hobart left the meeting before the vote.

Quips and Cranks received $23,000 last year, requested

---

Plott Concert Tapes Now Available At Discount To Students

You remember the concert and now you can own the tape! Now you can add a tape of last year’s unprecedented Mehta-Plott Concert to your collection, and give another as a gift. This collector’s item is now available to students at a discount: every $10 contribution to the Plott Scholarship will qualify for a full tape of the concert. Your contribution to the Plott Scholarship will enable gifted students — like Laura McDonald — to pursue musical training while continuing their liberal arts studies at Davidson. And you'll receive a FREE BONUS GIFT with each tape — an original PLOTT CONCERT POSTER while they last! Add this priceless tape to your collection and leave a priceless opportunity here with the Plott Scholarship. See Gail Sloop in the Office of Development now to get your tape.$26,500 this year and was allocated $23,300. The ATC will consider a $1,300 increase at its next meeting. The Davidsonian received $13,300 last year, requested $13,300 this year, and received $12,000. Hobart Park received $4,000 last year, requested $4,000 this year, and was allocated $2,200. The Miscellany received $3,400 last year, requested $3,450 this year, and was allocated $3,200. The Wildcat Handbook received $550 last year, requested $1,000 this year, and was allocated $900. The SGA received $4,500 last year, requested $6,500 this year, and was allocated $5,500. The Y-SSC received $600 last year, requested $1,612 this year, and was allocated $1,000. Amnesty International received $400 last year, requested $800 this year, and was allocated $600. The Black Student Coalition received $5,300 last year, requested $6,350 this year, and was allocated $5,500. Club Sports received $5,500 last year, requested $7,249 this year, and was allocated $6,000. The Artist Series received $7,000 last year, requested it again this year, and was allocated the same amount.

Forum Questions Police (continued from page 1) on Main Street. “He asked me, ‘What are you doing here?’” The officer then asked March for his I.D. Several black students related similar stories throughout the discussion. “Every black student can give you one,” Elliott said. Elliott related an incident in which a Davidson police officer followed her when she was driving home one night. The officer, she said, asked for her driver’s license, and when Elliott asked why, the officer said, “I don’t have to tell you why.” Elliott said the officer wrote her a ticket for not showing him her vehicle registration. She also said black students’ family members, while visiting Davidson, have been stopped by police. “These people are stopped because they are black,” she said. Elliott said several black alumni on campus last weekend noted that they had also been asked for identification by campus police when they were students here. MacCormac said she would welcome any opportunity to discuss any issues with students. “The town is interested in investigating individual incidents,” she said, but “only one problem has been expressed this year. We cannot investigate a complaint unless it is reported.” Dean Terry suggested that “opportunities be made for campus security to know who our students are.” Also, he said, campus police should display “even-handedness” in asking for I.D.’s. Terry also said students should take it upon themselves to be more security-minded.

Caldicott (continued from page 1) contributed funds, there will be no admission charge for what is predicted to be both a “disturbing” and “very persuasive” lecture.

Chief Hughes denied that campus police were asking for student I.D.’s without cause or singling out black students. “Our policy is for officers to ask a student for his I.D. if they don’t know the student and if they view anything suspicious about the student,” he said. Hughes emphasized, “we are not out to harass anyone at all.” To show the campus police's impartiality, Hughes cited the campus police arrest record from the past few years. Seven whites and 9 blacks have been arrested by campus police. However, several members in the audience protested when Hughes described one black person who had been arrested for trespassing as “someone who had been turned loose on the campus as a kid. He was stealing from all the fraternity houses.” “I see a lot of ignorance in what you are saying,” said Holman. “My father is a policeman, and I know all about SOPs (standard operating procedures). But you must be bound by ethics. You must have some reason for stopping students and asking for identification.” Thornberry related several court cases which have set precedents for interpreting the Fourth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution which prevents unreasonable search and seizures. Most of the rulings, Thornberry said, apply to public property. Since the College is private property, persons may be legally stopped for identification purposes. “But,” she said, “merely because we can get away with it (asking for I.D.s) doesn’t mean it is acceptable or moral. Race is not a valid reason for stopping someone.” Warlick encouraged students to bring complaints about officers harassing students to his office. “Try me,” he said, “if you have a valid complaint, it will not fall on deaf ears.”