2 Friday, April 13, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Room Lottery Begins Thursday

All students wishing to live in dormitories or in College-owned perimeter housing must draw a lottery number next Thursday. In addition, those requesting one of the perimeter houses must submit a complete list of the students to live in the house by 8:30 a.m. next Thursday. No one may select a lottery number unless they have paid a $200 room deposit, and students must have a roommate before choosing a room. Numbers will be compiled for perimeter housing requests following the lottery, and the lowest average will have the first choice of available units. On Monday, April 23, perimeter housing assignments will be posted.

On April 25, at 8:30 a.m., requests to retain a room and single room requests are due. Single room assignments will be posted the same day. Room and roommate selections are due by 5:00 p.m. April 27. Assignments will be posted on May 1.

Phi Society Sponsors Essay Contest

Submissions for the Philanthropic Literary Society essay contest are due in the Dean of Students’ office on Wednesday, April 18. The contest is composed of two categories, essays of up to 1,000 words and essays of between 1,000 and 2,500 words. Each category awards a first prize of $25, second prize of $15, and third prize of $10. Essays may be on any topic. Submitted essays will be judged by a panel including German Professor Hansford Epes, English Professor Gail Gibson, and a staff member of The Charlotte Observer. Winners will be notified on Friday, April 27. Essays must be submitted in an envelope containing the candidate’s name, room number, and telephone number. Essays themselves should be designated either category I (up to 1,000 words) or category II, and must not bear the candidate’s name.

Hobart Park To Appear Soon

This year’s only issue of Hobart Park will be sent to the printer before Easter and should be distributed to students in the middle of May, according to editor Jerry Lilly. The issue is almost completely typeset, and layout will be finished this weekend. “It’s really looking good,” he said. “We've gotten a lot of good stuff.”

Hobart Park, which usually comes out twice a year, was not printed earlier this year because of a disagreement between former editors Scot Myers and Suzonn Dickey over the quality of the material submitted, according to Myers. He said that Dickey did not believe the material was of sufficient quality to warrant an issue, but he wished to publish what they had. “The stuff we had was not as good overall as the issue we did last year,” he said. Nevertheless, he said, “It’s not our job to judge the quality of the material. Hobart Park is a forum for students. I felt we should publish the best of what we had.”

Instead of publishing an issue, Myers and Dickey gave their $2,000 budget to new editors Darryl Cooper and Jerry Lilly. “It’s going to be a larger issue than in the past,” Lilly said. “We'll use stuff submitted last term in addition to what we solicited this term,” he added.

Phi Beta Kappa Members Named

Phi Beta Kappa has tapped 42 Davidson seniors. They are:

Tracy Jean Askew
Franklin Deland Ivey, Jr.
Mary Amanda Barber
Stephen Curtis King
Virginia J. Barnhardt
Timothy Harden Law
Lisa Allyn Boardman
Janet E. Lindsley
Cathey Cowles Bost
Walker Lyerly
Caroline F. Boudreau
Daniel Phipps Metzel
Sharon Lynn Bryant
Hunter Kelly Monroe
William C. Calton
Lynmarie A. Posey
Arthur Malcolm Campbell
Lindsey Ann Rader
Sarah K. Dagenhart
Jasper C. Ratterree, III
William Harley Donovan
Jane Alyson Redd
Eric Eugene Fink
Carl Frederick Rist
David Aiken Gaston
Anne Bradley Rollins
Anne Elizabeth Goodwin
William M. Satterwhite, III
June Margaret Greer
John Robert Silver
John David Hendrix, Jr.
Julie Leigh Sitton
Paul Douglas Henson
Stephen William Skelton
James Rene Herlong
Robert Clendenin Spach
Karis Anne Harrnstein
Dennis Roy Swearengin
Susan R. Hilton
Mary Weedon Tabb
George Kaissar Ibrahim
Thomas Worth Walker

Army Awards Davidson Prof Service Medal

German department Chairman Erich O. Wruck has been awarded the meritorious service medal for his work as a colonel in the U.S. Army Reserve. Wruck received the award for outstanding service as a senior instructor with the First United States Army Area Intelligence School at Fort Bragg between May 1978 and August 1981. Wruck taught refresher courses in interrogation, tactical officer...staff, security management, and German language at the school. The citation credits him with training “hundreds of intelligence specialists from the active Army, Marine Corps, and Reserve components.” Wruck serves as a consulting faculty member to the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College and is assigned to Department of the Army headquarters at the Pentagon. He is also the West Point liaison officer for the 9th Congressional District in North Carolina, and parts of the 8th and 10th districts. Wruck is a native of Germany and earned his Ph.D. from Rutgers University. He joined the Davidson faculty in 1962.

DCF To Reorganize

The Davidson Christian Fellowship met Tuesday night to discuss possible changes in its organization and goals. The meeting lasted until 3 a.m. Although it has not decided on any specific changes, the group is seriously considering a major revision. Said DCF President Frank Ivey, “DCF has realized the need for change. These changes are unsure at the present, but they should be evident in the not-so-distant future. We are in the process of seeing how we can instigate those changes.” Ivey would not comment on any specific trends that necessitate the changes, but he said they would be addressed when the changes are announced.

AI To Present Speaker

Amnesty International will present pilot Peter Briscoe Tuesday. Briscoe was arrested along with five other airmen in Zimbabwe last year. The arrest raised questions concerning Prime Minister Robert Mugabe’s promises of encouraging a multi-racial society. Briscoe will share his thoughts and experiences at 7 p.m. in the Morrison Room. He will be available for discussion at 4:30 p.m. in the conversation pit.

Class of ’84 Gift Campaign Begins

The class of 1984 officially kicked off the class gift fund-raising campaign on Monday. By class consensus, members have decided to give a scholarship within the Dean Rusk Endowment for International Education for students receiving financial aid who wish to pursue studies abroad. Seniors are working to perpetuate the senior class gift tradition of “insuring Davidson’s future,” while maintaining a philosophy of “the future is now,” by agreeing to award this scholarship beginning in the academic year 1985-86. Sixty-one class “brokers” are encouraging classmates to pledge money during a five-year campaign to establish a permanent endowment. Participants have three pledge options that reflect three levels of giving potential among class members.

College Trustees voted unanimously last May to establish “the Dean Rusk Endowment for International Studies, honoring Davidson’s most distinguished living alumnus.” The Endowment will serve as an umbrella fund for scholarships, such as the 1984 Class Gift, while the generated income will support the international studies programs of the College. Fifteen dollars of each annual gift will be designated for the Annual Fund through the Living Endowment. This money supports the Class of 1984 Scholarship to be awarded in the following academic year. The balance will create an endowed fund to support the scholarship in the years after the campaign ends in 1989.

Assistant Director of the Living Endowment Gracia Slater felt that the gift is “an excellent plan.” She said, “all those who have worked on it have done a very thorough job.” She added that the specific pledge options give seniors the flexibility to make pledges which suit their own needs. She also felt that, because the Living Endowment goes to all programs of the College, the gift is not only a class gift but helps to support the College as a whole.

Senior class President Pat Woodward said he is “grateful for the support we have from the faculty and the administration.” He believed the gift was significant because “we are not looking to pay the full ride for someone, but rather it is a supplement to ‘make the difference’ for someone on financial aid.” He added, “a fund-raising campaign like we’re in now serves a dual purpose. We are raising funds that will help the College as well as bringing our class together in the process.” Woodward heads the 21-member class executive committee which has worked with assistant alumni Director Cissi Fullenwider to plan the campaign. Executive committee members, who are also brokers, oversee a number of other brokers to ensure a thorough campaign. Each broker is responsible for contacting and soliciting pledges from four or five of his classmates. The campaign officially ends on Monday, April 23. Seniors can still make pledges at any time, however.