Friday, February 17, 1984 / The Davidsonian 7

-Music

The Act You’ve Known For All These Years

By STEPHEN MANK

John Lennon and Paul McCartney are most likely the two biggest influences on rock and roll ever. Their ever-changing, always powerful approach to their music made them the voices of an entire generation. But when the Beatles split up, they fell away from the cutting edge of pop trends and have since been trying to come back.

Lennon’s new LP, Milk and Honey, recorded just before his death, is a sequel to his last album Double Fantasy. Likewise, McCartney’s disc, Pipes of Peace, is a follow-up to his Tug of War.

The McCartney LP is a whimsical set of fluffy songs that are pretty to listen to but basically inconsequential. Tracks like “Pipes of Peace” and “So Bad” feature unexciting chord progressions as background to hideous lyrics. In “So Bad,” there is no rhyming pattern whatever except for “Well it feels so good, sometimes it feels so bad / This is worse than anything I ever had.” True, pop music is no place for lyrical virtuosity, but McCartney was writing better words than that twenty years ago.

In spite of the faults of the music, it is well executed. McCartney’s sidemen are among the tops in their fields. With Ringo Starr’s deliberate, spartan drumming, Eric Stewart’s flexible guitar playing, wife Linda’s thankfully contained keyboarding, and McCartney’s own expert talents on bass and throat, the album has all it needs to be perfect. But even these and quite a few other good backup musicians cannot rescue this floundering, last gasp effort.

Surprisingly, the only at all dynamic songs are “Say, Say, Say,” and “The Man,” collaboration tracks with Michael Jackson. Jackson’s voice may not be as good or controlled as McCartney's, but it has a certain gutsiness that the latter has lost in moving towards the middle of the road.

The Lennon album does much better in the energy category. His songs, though not earth-shattering, are very good pop tunes.

The single, “Nobody Told Me,” rings of “Instant Karma,” and not only that, it says something substantial. “I Don’t Wanna Face It” is a similarly strong tune that explains where Lennon stands in his views of life, like “Watching the Wheels,” but in a much more subtle third person.

The big surprise on Milk and Honey is Yoko, who is actually dangerously close to being listenable. Her best cut, “Sleepless Night,” is a bizarre Avant-Garde/Reggae excursion through the mental torture of imagined inadequacy in love. Like his old compadre, Lennon has enlisted the talents of top studio musicians, but unlike McCartney, Lennon’s voice is more controlled and stronger than it has ever been.

The big problem with both albums is that the artists have pretty much solved all their mysteries — they have no more demons to exorcise. Both have relaxed into domesticity. While McCartney once sang of believing in yesterday, he is now singing ditties like “Average Person,” a song which more closely resembles “The People in Your Neighborhood” from Sesame Street. Lennon too, has grown too complacent for anything like another “Day in the Life.”

But the saddest thing about these two albums is that McCartney’s vacuity is garnering him gold, and Lennon’s seemingly returning talent was aborted.

Looking for a part-time job?
Openings for hard workers at

UNITED PARCEL SERVICE

Applications to be accepted at

United Parcel Service — (Corner of I-85 and North Graham) in Charlotte

Interviews at the United Parcel Service on:

Wednesday, February 22
4-6 p.m.

Pay: $8.00 per hour 15 to 20 hours per week

Monday through Friday
Excellent benefits

Additional inquiries or information available through Careers Office

Equal Opportunity M/F

BEST EATIN’ ALL AROUND!

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’ bring in this MONEY-SAVING coupon.

STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND ORANGE JUICE $1.29

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours only at participating Hardee's Restaurants.

© 1983. Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.

REGULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at participating Hardee's Restaurants through May 31, 1984.

© 1983. Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.