8 Friday, May 11, 1984 / The Davidsonian

OPINIONS

U.S. Central American Policy Must Change

Dr. Jason Thompson

In the last year, I have been frustrated at the lack of visible reaction at Davidson to events in Latin
America, such as the U.S. invasion of Grenada and the CIA mining of the Nicaraguan harbor. A group of students
and I have formed a group, Latin American Policy Alternatives (LAPA), to react to such events and express our outrage.
Public opinion can influence government policy, as witnessed by the U.S. Congress (in the wake of the news of the
mining incident) postponing Reagan’s request for $21 million in increased aid to CIA operations in Nicaragua. We are also formulating
a policy statement to provide an alternative to Reagan’s confrontational strategy in Central America. Our priorities include the following:

1. Food, clothing, and shelter for the people of Latin America.
2. Equal access to political freedom and justice.
3. Equal access to economic opportunity.

Reagan, on the other hand, views the problem in Central America in terms of East-West conflict. Wednesday night (May 9),
he even stated that the PLO and Libya have a significant role in armed struggle in Latin America! He believes
that we must use military aid to defeat communism and make Central America safe for democracy. Supporting the Salvadoran military
and former Nicaraguan National Guard for democracy and justice is like having sex for virginity. Militarizing the area is tearing
it apart and killing its people. The problem in Central America is not communism; it is inequality and poverty.

If we offered the people access to economic opportunity and social justice, why would they turn to the Soviet Union?
Of course, given our track record of intervention in the area (60 times since 1846!), it may take a while
to win their trust. But if the U.S. showed over the years a commitment in Latin America to promoting the
Jeffersonian values our country stands for domestically, I believe we could make friends with the people of Latin America. In
order to make friends, we need to develop strategies for non-manipulative aid. These strategies would preclude using aid as a
political weapon to further our political goals or to promote a business climate favorable to U.S. investors. In other words,
we have to stop using aid to reward governments who implement policies we like. In fact, we should try to
bypass the governments and put the money directly into the hands of the people who need it.

The people of El Salvador do not need $8 million loans or $8 billion loans; they need loans of $100
or $500 to buy cows, some seed, and parcels of land so they can support themselves. According to a Wall
Street Journal article on February 7, 1984, $479.1 million of unused Central American aid money is backlogged in the aid
pipeline because of inadequate administrative abilities and payment problems. The Kissinger Commission Report was remiss in not mentioning the need
to allow Central American countries to increase exports to the U.S. to earn the foreign exchange to develop their economies.
The flow of dividends, fees, and royalties out of Latin America to the U.S. is 33 percent higher than the
flow of U.S. private capital into the area! On the other hand, hundreds of private aid groups such as Oxfam
America, Inter-American Foundation, American Friends Service, Bread for the World, and World Neighbors are getting the money directly to where
it is needed. Economics Professor Charles Ratliff has worked for years on a proposal for a World Development Fund that
he designed to provide non-manipulative aid to the Third World. Implementing this type of program requires looking at the world
in a less ideological way than Reagan seems capable of.

If we respected the right of Latin Americans to revolutionary change in their societies, even if their paths (mixing capitalism
and socialism) are different from the revolution in this country, we would be on the road to achieving the priorities
outlined above. Supporting the Salvadoran military and the former Nicaraguan National Guard for democracy and justice is like having sex
for virginity. Militarizing the area is tearing it apart and killing its people.

Most U.S. aid is now in the form of loans that must be repaid, and 70 to 80 percent of
the money is used for receiving governments and U.S. Agency for International Development (AID).comes back to the U.S. through stipulations
requiring that the money be spent here. These countries already have a balance of goodness of capitalism, and the badness
of combining socialism and capitalism will only push the revolutionaries further to the left and bring more bloodshed and suffering.
Thompson is an Assistant Professor of economics.

Questions Of Gold Lost In Issues Of Brass
T. Hartley Hall

I sat the other night to read William Faulkner’s Nobel Prize acceptance speech and realized that it spoke to an
emotion which has been living and growing inside of me for some time now. To paraphrase Faulkner’s words, our tragedy
today is a general and universal relevance—so long sustained by now that we can even bear it. People, it seems,
must always find something to complain about. If just once we would stop and acknowledge the contented beauty of the
apple instead of harping on the ugliness of the worm.

We are young, driving, and idealistic. How easy it is to forget where we have been and how far we
have come—to forget that which is truly important. How easy it is to fall into the sordid trap of relevancy,
sacrificing our own responsibility to the whole for the sake of the immediate. We lose sight of the good in
our drive to eradicate the bad. And issues themselves, inconsequential, are raised to traumatic import by faithlessly passionate voices, petty
and trite, and indignant, that advance and clamor for utterance. Our emotions and sympathies are overloaded by each new crisis
carefully articulated to be of a life and death urgency. Each new issue becomes very important, and our emotions are
so thoroughly bombarded from all sides seeking to enlist our support that we become numbed to any new catalyst for
action.

The truth is, that each new crisis always seems to have misread or misinterpreted some aspect of the greater issue
and we find ourselves hesitant. The much-touted problems of the Honor Council and its so-called lack of accountability lose sight
of the greater contribution that this institution makes to the Davidson community. The question of representation in the SGA ignores
the fact that the people serving there are elected in a perfectly legitimate manner—and ignores the fact that those people
are not somehow semi-divine, as seems to be expected of them. The recent uproar about the ATC neglects the fact
that the ATC too must meet a budget. I have recently heard so much complaining about the housing office that
I have concluded that people do not realize that there are constraints over which the housing office has no control.
The race question, one of obvious importance, has reached such a height that the various sides have ostracized the very
people they seek to enlist—polarizing and categorizing through inflamed rhetoric that so many find it difficult to support any side
without taking on too much excess baggage. No one, it seems, seeks to win support, but instead to look out
at whatever the going issue is and thereby leave even those that may wish to offer support in a numbed
daze.

Mankind, as Faulkner asserts, may well prevail. We may well be immortal because we have a “spirit capable of compassion
and sacrifice and endurance.” But of this I am sure, that if mankind is to prevail in this spirit of
greatness, we will have to learn to exist side by side and in defiance of the impalpable, soul-grating grist, the
puny inexhaustible voice which debases questions of gold with issues of brass and loses the problems of the heart in
the rhetoric of the glands. We must remember always our responsibility to that which is right. The heart must remain
high and the spirit wide—forever resisting the shallow and petty. We must be as the prop, the pillar to help
mankind endure and prevail, because there will always be these times, like the foreboding reassurance of a seven-year locust, when
the glands will swell, and the small maggotry of the earth will stir—and up will be raised the puny inexhaustible
voice—bitching.

Hall is a junior economics major from Richmond, VA.
