2. (in rear of the Southern Energy Building) COURSES begin: Mon, Nov, irate cc ““o—™Christmas HOLIDAYS begin: Fri

HAIR DESIGNERS

Friday, January 20, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Mezzo Soprano To Perform

Mezzo-Soprano Diane Willis and pianist Joel Harrison will present a concert of songs by Mozart, Brahms, Rossini, Fauré, and Rorem
on Jan. 22 at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

Willis won the New York Concert Artist Guild Award and made her Avery Fisher Concert Hall debut in 1981. She
has performed with the Texas Opera Theatre, the Santa Fe Opera Festival, the Chautauqua Opera, and the Boston Symphony Orchestra
at Tanglewood. She holds degrees from Florida Southern College, Indiana University, and Yale University.

Harrison has served as a staff member of the Davidson College music department since 1982. He is a frequent performer
throughout the area and holds degrees from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and from Indiana University.

The concert is part of the Chamber Music Series sponsored by the College Union Co-curricular Council and the Department of
Music. There will be no charge for admission.

New Post Office Opening Delayed

Because of the severe weather, the opening of Davidson's new post office has been delayed indefinitely. “We must have clear
weather before progress can be made,” Postmaster John Fisher said. “The boxes are all laid out, but the roof needs
to be put on. We don’t know when it will be ready.”

The new post office will be located behind the new Peregrine House, and the College is planning to transform the
old post office into a student store. Fisher said that every effort would be made to give Davidson students and
residents the same box number, but the new post office will not have as many boxes, and some changes will
be necessary.

Police Report Stolen Goods

Over $800 in cash and property has been reported stolen since Jan. 11, according to campus police. A car stereo
worth $450 was taken from senior Burt Taylor’s car which was parked across from Emanon. Entry was made into the
car with a coat hanger, police said. A bicycle valued at $200 owned by freshman Caroline Vinson was stolen from
in front of Richardson Dorm. Police said the bicycle was not locked.

Police recovered a car on Jan. 11 belonging to Kevin McDaris which was stolen while parked on Patterson Court. Police
believe the suspects in those thefts are coming from Ridge Road (beside the golf course). The College plans to build
a gate at the Patterson Court entrance and close off the road at night.

In another incident, $121 was stolen last Friday from WDAV staff member Anne Wright. According to reports, the money was
taken from her purse in WDAV’s studios in the basement of the Union.

Academic Calendar Approved

The Executive Committee has approved academic calendars for 1984-85 and 1985-86. The calendar for 1984-85 appears below:

Fall term:
Orientation: Sat. Sept. 1
Courses begin: Wed. Sept. 5
Courses end: Mon. Nov. 12
Reading Day: Tues. Nov. 13
Exams begin: Wed. Nov. 14
Exams end: Sat. Nov. 17

Winter term:
Christmas Holidays end: Mon. Jan. 7
Courses end: Fri. Feb. 22
Reading Day: Sat. Feb. 23
Exams begin: Mon. Feb. 25
Exams end: Thurs. Feb. 28

Spring term:
Courses begin: Mon. Mar. 11
Holiday (Good Friday): Fri. Apr. 5
Courses end: Fri. May 17
Exams end: Wed. May 22
Commencement: Sun. May 26

PERMANENT WAVE 1/2 OFF
NEW STUDIO
237 Catawba Ave.
HAIR CUT & STYLE $5.00 off (Male & Female)
Cornelius

Temporarily Closed
Will announce new location

NEWS SUMMARY

Kazee Predicts Reagan to Win in ’84

“I don’t see a very close election; I see Reagan winning rather handily,” political science professor Tom Kazee said in
a lecture Tuesday night.In the Morrison Room of the Union, Kazee’s lecture, titled “Gazing into the Crystal Ball,” was the
second in the faculty lecture series. Kazee examined three aspects of the 1984 elections: the race for the Democratic nomination,
the general election, and congressional elections. Of the eight Democratic candidates that have announced their intention to run, Kazee said
that only two, Walter Mondale and John Glenn, are real contenders; the rest are only hopefuls. Kazee predicted two possible
scenarios in the Democratic race: “the Mondale Preempt” and “the Glenn Southern Exposure.” Since most primaries happen early this year,
Mondale could knock out the other candidates before they even get started. His campaign would pick up momentum and he
would win easily. But if Glenn is able to make a reasonable showing in the early primaries, then he may
be able to catch Mondale on “Super Tuesday” (March 13). On this day, eleven states will hold primaries or caucuses.
Included in these states are Florida, Georgia, and Alabama, three states in which Glenn is stronger than Mondale, according to
Kazee. Kazee predicted that Mondale will win the Democratic nomination, but he noted that this victory would be ironic because
public opinion polls have revealed that Glenn would be a stronger candidate against Reagan.

Turning to the general election, Kazee evaluated President Reagan’s strengths and weaknesses. Kazee said that he is strong on domestic
issues, but weak on foreign policy issues. But since voters usually care more about domestic issues than foreign policy issues,
Reagan should not be hurt by his weaknesses. Kazee said that Reagan already has a solid bloc of 200-280 delegates;
the Democrats have much catching up to do.

As for congressional elections, Kazee predicted that the Republicans will gain 5-10 seats in the House of Representatives, leaving them
far short of a majority. He predicted the Democrats will gain 2-3 seats in the Senate, including North Carolina Senator
Jesse Helms' seat. He said that the Hunt-Helms race will be close, but Helms’ liabilities, such as his outspokenness, make
him vulnerable.

Visiting Scholar Phyllis Trible To Speak

As part of Davidson’s Visiting Scholar Series, Dr. Phyllis Trible, Baldwin Professor of Sacred Literature at Union Theological Seminary, New
York City, will give two lectures Wednesday, Jan. 25. Trible, known as one of the nation’s leading Bible scholars, will
present her first lecture, “Tamar: The Royal Rape of Wisdom” in Chambers 308 at 11 a.m. The second, “Hagar: The
Desolation of Rejection,” will be presented in the 900 Room at 3 p.m. Religion professor Max Polley said the lectures
are a “feminist interpretation of Biblical literature.” Trible published a book titled God and the Rhetoric of Sexuality in 1978.
Polley described this book as having “earned her a reputation as a responsible representative of the feminist movement.” Students of
Humanities “may recognize this book as a major source for Brian and O’ Major’s 10th Chapter, ‘Women on the Three
Cultures’ in their book In the Beginning.” Her next book, Texts of Terror: Literary-Feminist Reading of Biblical Narratives, will be
published in March. Her two lectures Wednesday originate from material in this book. Other publications include an article called “Depatriarchalizing
in Biblical Interpretation.” This appeared in the March 1973 issue of Journal of the American Academy of Religion. Some of
her works have been translated into German and Japanese. Her lecture tour has been extensive. Among others, she was part
of the Lyman Beecher Lectures at Yale Divinity School in 1982 and a Convocation Lecturer at Eden Theological Seminary in
1978. Trible attended Meredith College in Raleigh, N.C. and graduated magna cum laude in 1954. She wrote her PhD thesis
at Union Seminary and Columbia University in 1963.

Order in advance—
Wine & Beer by the case: Cost plus 10%
Keg beer: Cost plus 10%
Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St.-Davidson, N.C 28036
892-7521
