/ Friday, February 3, 1984 / The Davidsonian /

‘To Thine Own Self Be True’
Christine Jackson

For years I buried a crucial part of myself because of the imagined shame I connected with it. Hiding this fact of life from even my closest friends, I built an artificial and unnecessary wall around myself as protection from people I suspected might be unsympathetic. Not surprisingly, I received chiding from people observant of my difference but unaware of the reason for it. Therefore, I found myself subject to reproach without having the courage to explain or defend myself. Perhaps my tormentors deserved no explanation, but at least I should have spoken more openly to friends, whose questions I left consistently unanswered.

Looking back on my experiences in elementary and junior high school, I regret that I lacked the courage and the confidence in my friends to be honest with them. The thing that held me back, that kept me isolated, was the shame I felt about a condition over which I had no control. It was not so much the illness which crippled me as the shame. Because I had begun to be secretive about my condition, I found myself caught in the same deceptive patterns through high school. When I made new friends, I carefully avoided mention of my debility. In denying its existence to others, I served the double purpose of denying its existence to myself as well.

Reading Hamlet in my senior year, I failed to take to heart Polonius’ message, “To thine own self be true.” For three years I have been slowly discovering the importance of being frank with oneself as well as with others, particularly those one cares about. For until we can admit our shortcomings to ourselves, we cannot confess them to others. We must learn not only to admit that such weaknesses exist, but also to accept them as a part of ourselves. We must further believe that despite our limitations, we are worthwhile individuals.

Coming to terms with your limitations enables you to accept yourself. Also, you must recognize that no one is without a handicap of some kind, whether it be physical, mental, or financial. Knowing this, we are able to view ourselves more realistically, not as abnormal but as similar to others. Thus we need not fear derision or misunderstanding from others, but may expect sympathy when we reveal to our friends our infirmities. I am not advocating that people wear their shortcomings on their sleeves, but simply that they be honest and open in friendship. To hide a handicap in shame is tantamount to lying, which prevents open relationships. Paradoxically, only an open relationship can be a close one. Developing closeness requires honesty and acceptance, not only of others’ shortcomings but also of our own.

Jackson is a student from Smith College who is spending her junior year at Davidson.

Honor Week More Than A Joke
Nancy Rosselot and Thomas Evans

Honor Week. (We'll pause here before continuing. Go ahead: laugh, chuckle, snicker.) That’s right. We know that an Honor Week sounds ridiculous, crazy, and presumptuous. We even chuckled a bit at first at the idea of a week of honor. But we hope that you'll take the subject of Honor Week as more than a joke. We do.

When we enter Davidson College, we all sign a statement that signifies our acceptance of the Honor Code and the Code of Responsibility. Throughout our academic careers at Davidson, we are constantly, almost daily, reminded of the Honor Code. We pledge our reviews, our lab reports, our daily problem sets. At times we even feel as though we ought to pledge our letters home! The Honor Code pervades our lives. We think of it so frequently that by the time we have been at Davidson for a term or two, we subconsciously follow its tenets.

So why an Honor Week? First, we want to educate the campus. Do you know to whom to report a suspected violation? Do you ever wonder what happens in an Honor Council hearing? Who investigates suspected violations? Granted, you may never need to know the answers to these questions. We certainly hope not. We hope that you will never have to attend an Honor Council hearing as a defendant. But someone you know might have to do just that. Or you might be a witness. Or you might suspect someone of a violation. A little knowledge is not necessarily a dangerous thing.

Second, we want to start people thinking about the Honor Code. Why does the Honor...Council keep silent about hearings? Why do some students found guilty of an honor violation receive less than a two-term minimum? Why do 85 percent of those on two-term dismissal return and graduate from Davidson? Why not give only a single sanction for all Honor Code violations? Why is it extremely rare that a violator of the Honor Code receives permanent dismissal?

Third, we want to heighten awareness of the Honor Code and the Code of Responsibility on campus. We are honor bound to refrain from stealing. Library books. Textbooks. Umbrellas. Wallets. Road signs. Fraternity memorabilia. Personal possessions from dorm rooms. Lately, it seems that some students may be neglecting this all-important aspect of the Honor Code. Disrespect for the Honor Code and the Code of Responsibility is detrimental to the College community. We would all hate to lose the privileges of our unique system of honor. It’s hard to imagine a Davidson where students always lock their doors. Where no one leaves books, calculators, or even pens unattended in the library. Where exams are unconditionally scheduled. Where library stacks are closed and book bags checked at the library door. Where fraternity and eating houses are locked at all times and members must carry keys or remember combinations. All this at Davidson College? That is the picture at a number of colleges and universities — even ones with honor codes similar to Davidson’s. What is the difference? In the past, Davidson seems to have been in the rather enviable position of attracting students who are seriously committed to honor in an environment which is small enough to permit strict maintenance of our Honor Code. Are we, the current generation of Davidson students, less committed to honor than our predecessors?

And so, we bring to you Honor Week. Have you seen the frantic filming that has been going on around campus? On Monday you will have the opportunity to view the Honor Council Video (soon to be released to MTV). It will be in the Union Conversation Pit through Wednesday. Take ten minutes to stop by and to ask questions of Honor Council members. Then start thinking about the Honor Code. On Thursday night you'll have the chance to hear discussion and to ask questions at a forum. This week when you sign the Honor Pledge, think about what it means — in full. When you leave your door unlocked and return from the shower to find your stereo still in place, appreciate your fellow students. Take five or ten minutes to reflect upon your life at Davidson and how great a role the Honor Code plays in it. Honor Week really lasts 52 weeks a year at Davidson. (By the way, this article is pledged.)

Juniors Rosselot and Evans are members of the Honor Council.

Three inquisitive Davidson seniors sought to experience What-a-Burger. After all, no Davidson experience is complete without a visit to this culinary accident at its peak hours on a Saturday night — midnight. What did we find? What follows are the facts, just the facts. It’s our job. Upon approaching the historic landmark of the Port City, we noticed the eye-catching signs: three letters missing in What-a-Burger and a neon pig advertising “Pit Bar-B-Q.” While we attempted to dodge all the trash in the parking lot we jockeyed for a suitable slot among the regulars. Our first sight was The Waitress. Judging from her physical demeanor it was late in the game, and the coach had just put in the fourth string. After placing our orders with great diligence and care, the waitress brought back only one. Immediately we inquired upon the whereabouts of our other orders. From the point of being assured that they would be right out, we waited for our “food” for 15 more minutes. When we got our food we thought our problems were over. “Everything” on a burger must mean something different in Mooresville, NC, because “everything” at What-a-Burger means mustard, onions, and CHILI. Even the Union Café has a better conception of “everything.” All in all, the Bar-B-Q isn't the only thing in the pits at What-a-Burger! We three Davidson students, like Mr. T, pity the fool who goes to What-a-Burger.

Gary S. Schenk
Douglas Ammar
Harriett Gaston

Letters Policy
The Davidsonian welcomes letters from our readers. We require that letters be signed and include the author’s address and phone number. All letters must be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday. We reserve the right to edit letters for length and clarity. The Davidsonian does not in any way endorse the opinions expressed in the letters it prints.