Friday, March 16, 1984 / The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

‘Parlor Rock’ Opens Doors For Other Bright Colors

By DAVID RESNIK

Other Bright Colors is Davidson’s newest and only rock n’ roll band. The band consists of Brian Butler on guitar and vocals, Joe Jaworski on drums, Steve Mank on bass, and Lisa Brawley on guitar and vocals. Their music, which Butler calls “parlor rock,” sounds a lot like R.E.M., but they have also developed a style uniquely their own. They play music that one can “dance to or listen to,” according to Jaworski.

Most of the songs they play are their own compositions. They have written about 20 original tunes including such diverse titles as “Water,” “Crosseyed,” “Revolving Door,” “I Like That,” “Time Released Love,” and “Subway Down.” They also play a few cover versions including John Denver’s “Leaving on a Jet Plane,” Bob Dylan’s “Tambourine Man,” The Velvet Underground’s “There She Goes Again,” and The Beatles’ “I Saw Her Standing There.”

Other Bright Colors debuted at the Fiji house in December and opened for Love Tractor at F&M in January. They have played at the Milestone in Charlotte three times and are scheduled to play there again tonight. They are also scheduled to play again at F&M on an as yet unannounced date, in the 900 Room, and possibly at PAX. Their busy schedule also includes playing at Mac Mac’s in Charlotte on March 24, and possibly opening for Jason and the Scorchers in Charlotte’s Park Center Auditorium (it seats more than 1000 people) on April 21. They have sent promotional tapes to Culture Club in Raleigh, Cat’s Cradle in Chapel Hill, the 40 Watt Club in Athens, Georgia, and 688 in Atlanta. Love Tractor, from Athens, and The Shake, from Chapel Hill, have offered Other Bright Colors their support and will allow them to open at their concerts. Mitch Easter of Let’s Active has offered to produce Other Bright Colors.

The band would like to record a single, but they have not yet acquired sufficient funds. Says Mank: “It would be nice to have something to look back on, to have a record. I don’t want to die without having something recorded.”

Other Bright Colors has reached a crossroads of sorts. They must decide whether to continue pursuing their studies or careers, or to try to make it big in the music industry. They are also considering a compromise solution of playing music during the summer and going to school or working during the rest of the year. They have not yet decided what to do, but a great deal will depend on how well the band does this term.

Butler and Jaworski planned on forming a rock band this year while they were still playing together in Ice 9 Anderson Scott last year. According to Butler, they “sat down in a bar in Alabama and decided to form a band.” At the beginning of this school year, they were still looking for a bassist. They tried playing with John Walsh, a former Davidson student who was living in the area, but Walsh soon left town. When Walsh left, they thought it was all over, but they met Mank in the Commons and started practicing again in Jaworski’s house in November. Brawley listened to them play at F&M, liked their music, and soon joined the band.

Now they practice in the closet (it’s a very large closet) of Brawley’s apartment on Main Street. They use Brawley’s small-scale sound system for practicing and performing, and they also borrow equipment from Jim Rumley, who, according to Jaworski, “is a helluva guy.” They practice nearly every day for several hours a day. One night (morning) they practiced until 5:00 a.m. Butler writes most of the songs, but the whole band interprets them; their lyrics and music are a group effort. Says Mank:“We tell each other how to play each other’s instruments. Every instrument played is a communal effort.” For Jaworski, “Music is sexual 90 percent of the time. I perform with my eyes closed.” Mank also says he tries to get “a real good feeling” from playing music. For Butler, music is “compulsory, kind of like going to the bathroom.” All the band members agree that they have grown closer from playing. Butler has played music since he was fourteen, Mank has played for only a year and a half, Jaworski has played since age seven, and Brawley has played “for a little while.” They finally settled on the name “Other Bright Colors” after considering names like “Kelvinator” and “The Rutherfords.”

Butterflies Presents Comedy And Serious Drama
By ROSS HOLT

By next Wednesday night, a company composed of members of the College community will have converted the Union’s Morrison Room into a theatre, setting the stage for three performances of Leonard Gershe’s popular play Butterflies Are Free. Theatre major Charlie Lovett is directing the play for the most part independently of the theatre department. He has cast a student, a German professor, an alumnus, and the wife of another faculty member in the play’s five roles. “It’s great,” he joked. “We have faculty, community, students, and alumni all represented.”

Butterflies Are Free tells the story of Don Baker, who has decided to move out of his mother’s house. A conflict exists between Don and his mother, however, because Don is blind. His mother, though worried about his ability to survive on his own, allows him to move. After moving into his apartment, he meets Jill Tanner, the girl next door, and they become lovers. But their relationship, and Don’s relationship with his mother, create problems which provide the dramatic underpinning of the play. Director Lovett sees it as the story of “two young people striving for independence in different ways.” Lovett said the play, which ran on Broadway for over 1,000 performances in the early 1970s, is “a nice mixture of comedy and serious drama.” Don, he said, accepts his handicap and can joke about it, making for some humorous sight gags. Those don’t, however, overwhelm the dramatic tension as the conflicts unfold, according to Lovett.

Davidson theatre veterans Roy Fuller ’83 and Suzanne Smith play Don and Jill. German professor Mark McCullough plays Ralph Austin, Jill’s boyfriend, and Ellen Winkler plays Don’s mother, Mrs. Baker. Lovett, who has directed workshop and children’s plays, was happy with the way the production is coming together. He, like Fuller and Smith, participated in Godspell two years ago. “Godspell gave me confidence to go to Dr. Barber and say, ‘I want to do a play on my own,’” he said. Though Lovett has done most of the work casting, blocking, and designing the play, he said the rehearsals had shifted the burden to the actors. Because much of the play consists of only two actors on stage at a time, those actors must work with each other to make the scenes effective. Lovett also enjoyed producing a play in which all the actors were more or less the characters’ ages. “It’s a nice change,” he said, not to have “to tell someone how to act thirty-five.”

The choice of the Morrison Room as the theatre was also a change. “It’s an intimate play, it needs a small room,” he said. Though his original choice was the 900 Room, scheduling conflicts forced the production downstairs. He has designed the theatre so that the set is in the middle of the room, with the audience on either side. Performances will be held Wednesday, March 21; Thursday, March 22; and Saturday, March 24 at 8:00 pm. Tickets are available at the Union Box Office. Lovett said the proceeds will go toward the purchase of new lighting equipment for the theatre department's spring production, Scenes and Revelations.