THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXIII, Number 24
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, April 27, 1984

Activities Tax Council Makes Deep Funding Cuts
By DAVID VAN PELT

The Activities Tax Council yesterday decided on next year’s budget allotments for student-run campus organizations. Though the results will not
be made public until all organizations have been notified, several campus groups have complained about insufficient funding.

“It’s really absurd, I think,” said Hobart Park editor Darryl Cooper, of the ATC decision to cut the magazine’s funding
from the $4,000 of last year to $2,000 for this year. “We’re only going to be able to put out
one issue next year,” he said. He added that the ATC “really didn’t understand the needs of the student body
here.” According to Cooper, the ATC penalized editors Darryl Cooper and Jerry Lilly because their predecessors, Suzonn Dickey and Scot
Myers, did not publish an issue last fall.

Quips and Cranks received $23,300, a $300 increase from last year. The amount is “nowhere near an inflationary increase,” according
to next year’s editor Kathleen Micham. “We’ll have to cut the size of the book, or cut color, or something,”
she said. According to Micham, the yearbook will have only $85 after the publisher is paid with which to cover
all other costs. “They suggested that we cut the size of the book, which is something I knew the student
body would not be happy with.” Quips and Cranks requested $26,470.

The Davidsonian requested $13,300, the same amount it was granted last year, and received a $1,300 cut, to $12,000. “We
are very concerned about the amount we were cut,” said editor Ross Holt. “But we don’t want to make any
other comments until all the data is in concerning other organizations.”

“No one got what they asked for,” ATC Chairman Ester Kim said. “Almost every group asked for more money [than
last year]. Some

Dean’s Office Student Fund Out Of Money
By DAVID RESNIK

The Dean of Students’ student loan fund has run dry. Students who need emergency money will have to go elsewhere
until those who have borrowed money repay their debts. Dean of Students Will Terry expects that the fund will be
replenished by the end of the school year. He is sending a notice to everyone who owes money, asking them
to pay off their debt as soon as possible. The fund should be completely replenished by next fall, according to
Terry.

Terry said it is not unusual for the student loan fund to run out of money at this time of
year, since many students need loans for the $200 deposit on next year’s tuition. The student loan fund was a
gift from the Class of 1972. It is separate from regular financial aid and is administered by the office of
Dean of Students. The loans are interest-free and available upon request. The Dean of Students office usually asks no questions
about the loans. Originally, the fund held $5000, but some of it was lost to bad debts. In order to
prevent this, the College does not allow students to graduate who have not paid off their loans.

Thirty-three students have used the student loan fund so far this year. According to Terry, “the fund serves a need
for students... the secret to making it work is in the paying.”asked for substantially more. We don’t have funds for
that much more,” she said. “I think they were fair cuts. I think everything we did was fair.”

Kim said the Hobart Park decrease was designed to limit the magazine to one issue next year as part of
a “testing period” for the publication. She said that because Hobart Park only published one issue this year with a
$4,000 budget, the ATC “got kind of burned. We’re sort of wary now.” Kim also questioned the demand on campus
for two issues of Hobart Park. Kim suggested that a distribution center for the magazine, instead of door-to-door distribution, would
more accurately portray student demand. Kim said that if next year’s issue is handled well, additional funding may result.

The ATC also recommended changing the selection of Hobart Park editors from December to spring term, so that the magazine
will not change hands during the year. Kim said the ATC stressed fundraising as a solution to the Quips and
Cranks monetary problems. “No one gets a free ride,” she said. “They should look for the money in other places.”

Kim emphasized that the ATC wanted to trim its budget deficit, which was $3,000 last year. This year the ATC
will only exceed its estimated $66,000 budget by $950, according to Kim. “We're real happy with that,” she said.

(continued on page 4)

Kuykendall Speaks On Student Involvement
By DAVID McGEE

“There is almost always a correlation between the health and welfare of the individual aspects of the College’s life and
the health and welfare of the whole,” College President-elect John Kuykendall said to 300 Davidson students and faculty last night.
Kuykendall is on campus this weekend; last night he spoke on “Student Participation in College Governance.”

“All the pieces in this enterprise must somehow fit together, and abet and enhance one another,” he said. Addressing the
topic, Kuykendall presented four propositions, the first of which was “the belief that students have a legitimate and worthwhile contribution
to make in the shaping of a college.” He said students have had “experiences, both within the life of the
college and elsewhere, that provide significant insights into what's actually going on under a given set of circumstances.”

However, Kuykendall qualified the kind of input students have, stating that “sometimes you stand too close to an issue, and
sometimes too far away. Your insights on such matters as Patterson Court or disciplinary procedures may be enhanced by your
proximity, or they may be just biased by your circumstance.”

For student input into college governance to be effective, Kuykendall said, the president should maintain and develop the proper channels
of communication. He plans to evaluate the present means of communicating student opinion and determine “how well those structures serve
your right and responsibility to share in the guidance of the college’s life.”

“From what I read and hear,” he said, “there already exists a well-defined network of advisory councils of student representation
providing direct advice to the president on major aspects of the college’s life. In addition, the student government association and
other campus groups provide a corporate expression for student views.”

Lastly, Kuykendall asserted his belief in the uniqueness of Davidson College. “For me, to say that Davidson is unique is
to reiterate that this place is not Auburn, nor Princeton, nor Yale, nor any other institution that I may have
known, slightly or well... . (continued on page 4)

Randy Stroud
