Friday, May 11, 1984 / The Davidsonian

The ‘Third World Diet’
Hunter Monroe

Today’s American faces an imposing array of modern problems and frustrations. Considering these obstacles to a fulfilling life, he or
she may decide that the human condition is a hopeless one. However, we have conquered worse problems than those we
confront now; the good life is still within our grasp.

Perhaps the most pressing problem today is weight loss. We can easily ignore the importance and magnitude of this twentieth-century
plague. Many people have tried almost everything to lose weight, but without success. My approach to this social disease is
simple and obvious once described. It is this: look at the people who do the best job of staying thin,
contain your jealousy, and do what they do. Clearly, the people we should look at are our Third World friends.
The clever guys have got the problem licked so well that they never even think about eating too much. Their
lesson for would-be dieters is clear — just deny yourselves the means of obtaining more than a subsistence level of
food. I call this the Third World Diet. It leaves room for much originality. You could simply quit your job,
or you might adopt ten children. Enjoy designing your diet program, but be sure that your steps are irreversible. Still,
do not get carried away — thousands die of overzealous dieting every day. We cannot escape the logic of the
Third World Diet, though; these people have their weight under control.

The success of the Third World approach to dieting should give us insight into other problems, and it does. For
instance, a major goal of housewives is to find an all-temperature detergent that will leave clothes soft, brighter-colored, and cling-free.
Third Worlders solve this problem neatly by sidestepping it. They wash their clothes about once a week so they do
not expect much. They avoid our crippling fashion-related worries equally well, by having at most one change of clothes. They
also deal with the problem of finding a soft, aesthetically pleasing toilet paper, and at the same time they avoid
the major cause of hemorrhoidal pain. Their solution: live near a shade tree. Their reaction to underarm wetness is beautifully
pragmatic. They take off their shirts when they are hot. They manage to avoid worries about keeping their teeth white,
straight, and sparkling fresh by losing most of them.

If we give our modern problems the consideration they deserve, the people of the Third World provide a fruitful source
of ideas for solving them. By imitating their lifestyle, we can avoid most obstacles to true happiness.

Monroe is a senior mathematics major from Chapel Hill, NC.

5. Avoid internal violence — we must refuse to hate our opponent. Love is the key.
6. Faith in the future. Faith that “the universe is on the side of justice.”

Davidson, right now, has a great deal of energy. Let us take this energy and apply it in a positive
way. The only true and lasting changes are those that are through love and understanding, a change that seeks an
end which is consistent with the means. Everyone at Davidson wants to better the world around us. We all wish
to live in a world absent of strife. Now, and in the years to come, let us work together through
cooperation and understanding, to accomplish these goals.

Doug Ammar

Disagreement
To the Editors:

After hearing Dr. Helen Caldicott speak about the urgency to prevent nuclear war and hearing extremely positive responses to her
talk, I find myself wondering how many hard-core conservatives were there. Most of the people who attended were probably in
agreement with her before they heard her speak. So she might not have changed many opinions but she probably inspired
people to voice their opinions and be more politically active. If she has done that then she has helped, but
the people who really needed to be there are the ones who disagree with her. Most people go to talks
and lectures on subjects with which they know they already agree. What is equally if not more important is for
people to go to lectures on subjects with which they disagree. I now realize that I have not been doing
this myself but I believe that by doing this one will strengthen his own opinions by being prepared for the
arguments of the opposition. One cannot fully understand his side of an issue until he understands the arguments of the
other side.

The year is almost over so there aren't many more talks for people to attend, but I hope people will
realize the importance of hearing and really understanding the arguments of the other side of an issue and will make
an effort to go to talks on subjects with which they disagree.

Jean Cooper

Budget
To the editors:

This letter is a reply to the concerns aired in last week’s Davidsonian about the Activities Tax Council’s proposed and
approved budgets forQuips and Cranks, The Davidsonian, and Hobart Park.

Quips and Cranks: There is a proposal up now before the ATC to allocate an additional $1,300, which is $100
more than the editors requested in their revised budget. However, the $85 operating budget mentioned is misleading—what one failed to
mention is that revenues from advertising and fundraising were not included. Assuming that Quips and Cranks has revenues of $3,450
(which is the amount projected in their ATC budget proposal), a total of $3,535 would be available for operating expenses.
The $3,535 does not even include the additional $1,300 proposed.

The Davidsonian: The approved ATC allocation of $12,000 for The Davidsonian was based on their presentation. The Davidsonian’s business manager
explained that an increase from $7,000 to $8,000 was due to production and publication costs in order to expand the
size of the newspaper to 16 pages each week. Rather than increase the size of the paper, the ATC provided
enough funding so The Davidsonian could continue to operate as successfully as they have for the past year.

Hobart Park: The $2,200 allotted to Hobart Park is for the publication of one issue next year. However, the editors
are not being punished in that they are publishing two issues, which is the same opportunity afforded to all of
the preceding editors. In fact, this year’s editors have $6,200 available for two editions of Hobart Park—more than any editors
before. Also, an ATC recommendation was made that their elections be moved from winter to spring term so that the
allocation is made to the editors who actually appear before the council.

Hopefully, this will answer the questions voiced about the ATC’s reasoning behind its decisions concerning these three organizations.

Ester Kim
ATC Chairman

To the Editors:

The arguments presented by Jeffrey Mann in the “Opinions” section of your newspaper imply that the allocations made by the
Activities Tax Council were biased toward the SGA and were erroneous in many cases due to the oversight of several
factors concerning the appointment and actions of the ATC.

First, the college allocates the Student Activities Tax to the SGA, to be allocated by the ATC upon approval by
the Senate. According to the SGA By-laws, the student members of the ATC are “...five members of the SGA, exactly
two of whom are members of the Senate, nominated by the ATC chairperson and approved by the Senate.” Because the
college gives the responsibility of the Tax to the SGA Senate, the “large role” which Mann states that the SGA
Senate has in allocating the funding is established by the college and defined by our By-laws.

Second, the appointment of Ester Kim to the chair of the ATC was a selection based on her experience with
the ATC as a member and her organizational capabilities. When I appointed her to the chair, I in no way
was hoping to bias the decisions of the ATC in favor of the SGA, and was only thinking of Ester’s
skills as being appropriate for the job at hand. Mann alleges that she “had some part in the creation of
the SGA budget;” this “part” was merely gathering of the expenditure information concerning the SGA from the Comptroller’s Office and
the categorizing of these expenditures so that I could project next year’s needs and projected expenditures for the SGA. These
were her last actions as Chancellor of the SGA, and in no way influenced the make-up of the SGA budget
proposal.

Third, Mann alleges that the SGA received one of the largest increases in funding from the ATC. However, he neglects
to mention that the SGA budget proposal was cut $1,000 by the ATC, giving the SGA $1,110 less than was
spent for SGA programs during the last year. In fact, five out of the eleven organizations receiving Student Activities Tax
funding are allocated equal or greater shares of the funds, placing the SGA grant directly in the middle of the
“funding ladder.” As is seen, the SGA will certainly feel the effects of a tight money situation and was not
given preferential treatment by the ATC.

Finally, Mann’s discussion of the funds included in the SGA budget for SGA Admissions Weekend overlooks the origin and purpose
of the weekend. SGA Weekend was begun by students as a way for Davidson students themselves to encourage outstanding prospective
students to attend Davidson; hence the weekend is a student activity and so is partially funded by the SGA. The
increase of $500 for the weekend was requested to match the expenditures of the Admissions Office on the weekend, as
was the case in years past. This increase was part of the amount which the ATC felt should be cut
from the SGA budget, and so the Admissions Office will still bear the major portions of the expenses for SGA
Weekend.

These points show that the ATC did not favor the SGA when considering the allocations of the Student Activities Tax
for next year. The Council had a difficult task and made decisions which all of the student organizations involved must
accept and work with in the coming year.

John C. Laughlin
SGA President
