4 Friday, May 11, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Caldicott Delivers Lecture On Nuclear Arms
By ROXANNE GUILFORD

Using logical, emotional, and factual appeals, Helen Caldicott addressed a nearly full Love Auditorium Monday evening on “Living in the Nuclear Age.” The receptive audience gave Caldicott an enthusiastic welcome at the beginning and a standing ovation when she finished.

Caldicott prefaced her remarks by explaining why she was at Davidson. In this election year, she said, North Carolina is of great importance, for it is represented by “one of the most dangerous men in the Senate,” Jesse Helms. Counting back from Nov. 6, she argues that “we have six months to save the earth.” If we don’t “use our democracy,” she said, we help make nuclear war an absolute certainty.

Stating that “America has led the arms race,” she maintained that the Soviet Union is simply following suit. As Caldicott sees it, the greatest rivalry is not between the USA and the USSR, but between the branches of the Armed Services. Her book Missile Envy deals with this area. One example she gave of “missile envy” pertains to size. Although some Soviet weapons are less accurate due to size, Caldicott points out that in asking for more funds, Pentagon officials appeal to the size contrast. Throughout the lecture, she pointed to the “psychosexual” aspect of the arms race that makes it more of a virility contest than national defense.

Caldicott dismissed the idea of a “limited nuclear exchange” by stating that any war can lead to annihilation, since there is no way to stop escalation. “Anywhere, at any time, we can blow up our world.” Turning to the nerve center of our nuclear defense, Caldicott cites a study by Senators Hart and Mondale that shows how inert our key complex systems defenses are. She found the movie War Games frighteningly accurate. In addition to computer malfunctions (which she says led to a red alert in November 1979), the humans in control are often impaired by drugs and/or alcohol. She also points out that “old men” are in the positions of power, and that they “tend not to think clearly.”

For the following few minutes, Caldicott proceeded to describe a nuclear war. If her initial statement “I am going to drop a bomb on you” was not disturbing enough, her words were punctuated by a disconcerting distant siren. She continued, subtly aware of the interruption, and examined the absurdity of our current civil defense procedures. Included are such things as plans to evacuate 180 million people (with a 20-minute warning) and admonitions to always carry a shovel.

Once she made clear the futility of civil defense, she went on to discuss the effects of a 20 megaton bomb. An actual bomb would make a hole 3/4 mile wide and 800 feet deep, she said, adding that all buildings within six miles would be flattened and all living creatures would be vaporized. Within 20 miles, everyone would either be killed or fatally wounded. Winds reaching 500 mph would turn people into missiles, and “popcorn” windows, sending glass flying everywhere. Eyes would melt and many people would be turned into “charcoal statues.” At 26 miles, drapes, leaves, clothes and the like would spontaneously combust. Anyone looking at the flash from 40 miles away would suffer retinal blindness.

In addition to these immediate effects, she cited scientists, including Carl Sagan, who describe the long-term effects of a nuclear war. They describe a “nuclear winter” in which vegetation would die and the temperature would remain around 55 degrees Fahrenheit. Eventually, this would lead to total extinction. Caldicott pointed to a World Health Organization (WHO) report that set the “threshold for extinction” at 1000 bombs. Not only did the USA not vote to accept this report, but currently, Reagan is trying to increase our stockpile by 17,000 more bombs, she said.

Women’s Tennis Team (continued from page 1)
San Diego 1-6, 6-4, 6-4. Johnson and Ives sealed the championship with a win in the number 2 doubles finals where they beat Amy Sturdivant and Pat Gilbert of Cal-San Diego 6-4, 7-6. Loch, who played the number 1 and 2 spots respectively for Davidson, did not advance to the final round. Podolin won 6-0, 6-4.Over Helen Kuwayama of Occidental, Lutz defeated Jamie Rund of Mary Washington 6-1, 4-6, 6-3. And Johnson outlasted Lisa Gilbert of Cal. Trissy Lomax, owner 28036 892-7521. Use the best ok. Order in advance—Wine & Beer by the case: Cost plus 10%. Keg beer: Cost plus 10%. 128 S. Main St.-Davidson, N.C.

These and other facts, Caldicott concluded, that the administration is out to win a nuclear war. To worsen matters, we are paying for this with our tax money; we even finance the Pentagon lobbyists in Congress, according to Caldicott. After establishing the presence of the threat, recounting its history, and attempting to assign some responsibility, Caldicott turned to the question of how to stop the threat of a nuclear war. Recruiting poor and black voters was one of her suggestions, as was “electing the right people.” When she asked the audience if they really believed that they lived in a democracy, no one raised a hand. Caldicott affirmed this, maintaining that the corporations run the country. Still, she insisted that the voter can change things, especially in Congress, where military funding takes place.

As though to give her audience an impetus to vote for change, Caldicott described her visit with President Reagan. His initial reaction to her anti-nuclear stand was, “You are an Australian who read On the Beach and is afraid of nuclear war.” Despite this, she termed him a “nice, affable guy.” However, she said, “every statement he made was factually inaccurate.” Whenever she would try to explain her side to him, “his eyes just sort of glazed over.” While it was an “affable meeting,” Reagan had “no background data at all.” His major source was the Reader’s Digest, she said.

She didn’t restrict her criticisms to Reagan. She described the Soviets as a “paranoid people.” They are “terrified” and sure a nuclear war is in the offing. To antagonize them, she explains, is to increase the possibility of a nuclear war. Towards the end of her talk, she turned to the issue of children. “It’s the children we have to save... A baby is a baby.” From this basis, she went on to maintain that nuclear war is a deeply religious and emotional issue. It calls for men to relinquish their “macho” image and for women to become self-confident and strong. The issue demands action, she said. She ended her talk, answered questions, and appeared at a reception after the lecture. Soft-spoken, yet articulate in person, she managed to belie the exhaustive nature of her busy schedule. She will go next to Oregon to spread her word of peace through peace.

Helms Representative (continued from page 1)

Students decided to ask the Helms representative to leave Chambers. “We felt where he was not the best place for him to be,” Alves said. According to Alves, senior Chris Gunn received permission for the representative to set up a display in the Union. Alves said she explained to Williams her reason for requesting that he leave. “To me, it was offensive to black students on campus to have him here,” she said. After some resistance, she said, Williams agreed to leave. He did not go to the Union; instead, he left campus.

According to Holt, the group of students asked Williams to leave at 1:30 p.m. Because he had planned to leave at 2 p.m., he decided not to move his display to the Union. “Why is there such a big stink about a representative for a conservative cause coming to campus when so often we have representatives here for liberal concerns and nothing like this happens?” Holt asked. “It’s not so much an issue of Jesse Helms as it is an issue of differing opinions.”

Trustees (continued from page 1)

Gardener, Jr. (Drama and Speech), John E. Kello (Psychology), William D. Lawing (Music), James G. Swisher (Music), Mary C. Thornberry (Political Science), and Russ C. Warren (Art). The Trustees awarded tenure to Assistant Professors Laurence S. Cain (Physics), Stephen L. Davis (Mathematics), Thomas A. Kazee (Political Science), James G. Swisher (Music), and Russ C. Warren (Art).

Every Monday Night 5 to 10 PIZZA BUY ONE PIZZA (ANY SIZE) GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE FREE.