Friday, October 26, 1984 / The Davidsonian

20 Riding Team Members Begin New Season
By JANICE EVANS

What began as a good turnout at the activities fair has turned into a strong beginning for Davidson's equestrian team’s second year of competition. The team, which only had nine riders last year, now boasts a 20-member roster. Eleven riders went to the Oct. 14 show at the University of South Carolina, giving Davidson a good start on its new season.

The biggest change since last year is diversity in ability. The Intercollegiate Horse Show Association (the NCAA of riding) divides all its competitions into eight division levels, from beginning walk-trot to open (advanced) over fences classes. Last year Davidson only had riders in four divisions. This year a rider competes in every division, which makes the team competitive as a unit, not only as individuals.

Freshmen Kim Gambal, in the intermediate division, and Sian Hunter in open provided the team with representation in classes where it was lacking last year. This new distribution through divisions gave Davidson the points (which are determined by how a rider finishes in a class) to be the winning team of the show, and to beat last year’s regional champion, the College of Charleston, and runner-up, the University of South Carolina. Junior Julie Waters, team co-captain, summed up her reaction very simply: “Quite pleasantly surprised!”

Individual performances showed distinct improvement over last year. Riders captured five blue ribbons at the USC show — the total number of blue ribbons the team won in the entire 1983-1984 season. The first-place finishers were sophomore Pepper Smith, in Class 1, beginning walk-trot; senior Janice Evans in Class 3, beginning walk-trot-canter; Waters in Class 5, novice on the flat and Class 8 — novice over fences; and Hunter.

Cross Country Places In Meet
By ANDY BARRON

Davidson's men’s and women’s cross country teams ran in the UNC-Charlotte Invitational meet last Saturday. Both teams turned in mediocre performances as the men finished sixth out of twelve teams and the women took fifth of seven teams.

“I was somewhat disappointed with our placing,” said coach Sterling Martin. “We were hoping to do better than we did in both races. I thought the men’s placings and times could have been much better. I hope we can run in more of a pack in the Southern Conference meet.”

Junior Frank Hague led the men’s team. Hague finished 21st in a time of 27:05 for the 5-mile course. Next was sophomore Greg Foreman at 24th in 27:13. The other members to score for Davidson were senior Lanny Smith (32nd in 27:41), junior Taylor Simpson (38th in 27:59), and freshman Bill Breidenstein (51st in 28:33).

“We did fair overall,” Foreman said. “It was good to get Lanny (Smith) and Bill (Breidenstein) up towards the front. If we can run more as a pack and get everyone up with that pack, we should do well in the conference race.”

The big gap between Davidson’s first and fifth runners was very costly in that the Cats were nipped by Pembroke 139 to 140. Davidson did manage to beat UNCC.The women were able to run more as a group than the men. Unfortunately, that group was too far back in the overall pack to do the team any good. “The women’s race was especially disappointing in that we won this meet last season,” Martin said. “The competition was much more difficult this time around, but I still thought we would do better than we did.” Freshman Kappa Peddy led the women, finishing tenth in 19:53 for the 3.1-mile course. Senior Jean Webb was next at 21st in 20:47 and was closely followed by junior Judy Dalton (22nd in 20:57), freshman Laura Fannin (24th in 21:11), and freshman Morrow Reeves (28th in 21:37). “The freshmen looked good and the team did well considering the competition,” senior Susie Dresser said. “We should do well at our last meet this weekend. After that, we will get ready for nationals.” 

The women run at Appalachian State this weekend and will face more tough competition. This will be their final meet before the national championships on November 17. The men have this weekend off before running in the Southern Conference race next Saturday at VMI.

Tomorrow at 11 a.m. on the flickerball fields, the Davidson All-Stars will battle the Wofford All-Stars in a regulation flickerball game. Team managers picked these players to represent Davidson: Dave Dendy, John Ponder (KA Gold); Boyd Blackburn, Jim Kelly (Circus); Clint Farabow, Burt Taylor (Throbber’s Flicks); Walt Gramley, John Peeples (All The President’s Men); Bryant Knox (Land Squids); Jeff Jacqmein, Rob Sitton (Fightin’ Scots); Jim Brueggemann, Will Cardwell (We Bomb in Five); Bill Bigger (Ultimate Weapon), and Ross Hunter, Thomas Evans (Ages 3 & Up). Rumor has it that Pat Bryant and Steve Byers of Preseason No. 1 will officiate the contest.

In Class 10, open over fences, seven other riders also brought home ribbons. Senior Susan Moore and sophomore Kat Lehman added to their accomplishments of last year. Moore finished third in Class 4, advanced walk-trot-canter, and Lehman took fifth in Class 8, novice over fences. Four newcomers, in addition to Smith and Hunter, turned in good performances for their first intercollegiate show. Junior Mike Braff took third in Class 1, beginning walk-trot; freshman Heidi Hooker captured sixth in Class 5, novice on the flat and second in Class 8; and Gambal took third in intermediate on the flat and fourth in intermediate over fences. Seniors Paige Dalton and Kelly Sundberg and freshman Jerry Livingston also competed but had the misfortune of drawing horses that were difficult to ride and failed to finish in the top six of their respective classes. St. Andrew’s hosts the next show this Saturday.

INTERESTED IN A MASTER'S DEGREE IN ACCOUNTING? BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION? PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION? Discover Rice UNIVERSITY'S SCHOOL OF ADMINISTRATION - ON CAMPUS ON Monday, October 29, 1984. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CONTACT: Careers Office. JESSE H. Jones GRADUATE REPRESENTATIVE WILL BE. Please send an application and a brochure about Rice University's JONES GRADUATE SCHOOL to:

NAME (please print)
ADDRESS
CITY
STATE
ZIP
COLLEGE
DEGREE DATE

RICE UNIVERSITY JONES GRADUATE SCHOOL OF ADMINISTRATION
P.O. BOX 1892
HOUSTON, TEXAS 77251
(713) 527-4918

Rice University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action institution.