14 Friday, September 21, 1984 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Production Manager
Kevin Horan, Business Manager
Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor
Will Thomason, Advertising Manager
Ross Holt, Editor

Advising The President

The Presidential Advisory Paper is a good, solid document, as far as it goes. The various articles and reports should provide President Kuykendall with a well-grounded, complete analysis of such issues as race and Patterson Court. Unfortunately, the advisory paper has some serious shortcomings, both in conception and execution. Though these detract only mildly from what is there already, discussion of serious issues are absent or omitted for one reason or another.

Athletics, of course, is the most staggering omission. “The reason is,” according to the paper’s preface, “that opinions about the athletic program are too many and too diverse to examine in this brief paper.” So were opinions about Patterson Court, but the PCSC (after two years, almost, of study) did a commendable job consolidating its material into its section of the paper. As it stands now, last year’s athletic survey is the only tool President Kuykendall has to qualify student opinion about athletics. Even a report explaining the reasons behind some of the survey’s numbers would have been more than helpful.

Whether the fault lies with the advisory paper committee, or with the SGA Athletics Committee, whether the mistake here was procrastination or an error in judgment, the omission is an unfortunate one. Without something to quantify and qualify student opinion on athletics, President Kuykendall and other administrators who might desire a concise assessment will be unable to heed the imprecations contained in the preface to the advisory paper.

These omissions might have been avoided, however, with stronger committee coordination. Collation of the paper kept pushing the completion date later. Finally, the responsibility for getting the paper to President Kuykendall’s hands fell on S.G.A. president John Laughlin, rather than the committee chairperson. The paper, though, has gone to President Kuykendall’s desk. We urge him to study the material closely, but with the knowledge that the paper is incomplete, and has left major student concerns unrepresented.

Getting The Vote Out

Though most college students would say voting is a “good thing,” they sure don’t act accordingly. The National Student Campaign for Voter Registration (NSCVR) polled students in 1980. The results: 16 million 18- to 24-year-olds did not register to vote in the 1980 election.

Besides having a voice in our government — a right that not everyone in the world shares — there are other good reasons for voting. Voting stands as a record of the opinion of a political constituency. Even if a candidate does not win, the support he or she receives influences what other lawmakers think about the issues the candidate stands for. Many elections are close. Had one voter in each precinct voted differently in 1968, another president would have been elected. Often, fewer than 50 votes decide Senate, Congressional, and local elections.

Absentee voting is simple, just contact the elections board in the county of your legal residence and find out how to register or obtain an absentee ballot. A voter should also know why he or she votes for a particular candidate. The Election ’84 committee on campus aims to get students involved with this year’s election. The committee plans to hold discussions and sponsor speakers, which everyone should try to attend. Don't let this election pass without having a voice in deciding what direction our elected officials take the nation.

No Cause For Alarm?

To be the best fire alarm that it possibly can, a fire alarm ought not to go off when it has not been triggered by a fire. Some fire alarms in Watts and Sentelle, however, have been squealing their apocalyptic whine (a lot of things are apocalyptic at 2 a.m.), absent a fire. Though this is not a burning issue (if itwere, we'd have pictures), if these fire alarms keep crying wolf, no one will pay any attention when one achieves its designated purpose. — John Kuykendall

To the Editors:

I would like to express my concern over a recent change in the appearance of Davidson (and believe it or not I am not referring to the new Post Office or the two missing trees on the Chambers lawn). Upon my return, I noticed that a certain colorful bit of town had gotten a “facelift”: the pawprints that are so artfully scattered about. My concern arises not from the new coats of paint but from the new shape the prints have taken.

Davidson’s pet beastie is, I believe, called a “wildcat.” Whether or not this somewhat general term applies to the native North American lynx (Lynx lynx) or bobcat (Lynx rufus), or to a European wild cat (Felis sylvestris), which could have been imported by the Scots, is irrelevant for my purposes. Even the fact that the genus Felis includes a number of “wildcat” species such as the African wild cat (F. sylvestris libyca), the Indian desert cat (F. sylvestris ornata), the Chinese desert cat (F. bieti), the sand wild cat (F. margarita), the jungle cat (F. nigripes) does not distress me as does the fact that the so-called “wildcat” pawprints found here in Davidson have claw marks.

Cats, that is, members of the family Felidae, have retractable claws; they are able to draw the claw up inside a sheath to protect it, especially to prevent damaging and/or dulling the claws while walking (let me stress this specific action as the wildcat(s) apparently was (were) walking when it (they) left the prints). Given this fact, plus the fact that cats are more intelligent than dogs (ranking below big bears, elephants, Old World monkeys, apes, and man) and would probably not stupidly allow their claws to scuff and scrape the hard-surfaced roads of Davidson, plus the fact that the prints are somewhat large for any species of wildcat, I would venture to guess that the prints were made by some member of the family Canidae — that is, dogs, or perhaps a wolf — maybe even a wolf pack.

Clare Eckert

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere to these four guidelines:

1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2) We require that letters be neatly typed.
3) We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.
4) We reserve the right not to print letters that:
   a) function as advertisements;
   b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes;
   c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in other letters printed on the same topic.

The Davidsonian “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions articles on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community. We adhere to these guidelines:

1) We require that all articles be in our hands at 7 p.m. Monday;
2) We accept typed articles and those written legibly, double-spaced.
3) We require that opinions be signed. We will print unsigned articles only if a compelling reason exists for withholding the author’s name, and the author is known to either the editor or executive editor.
4) We will not edit opinions for style or content but we reserve the right to edit for rules of common English. We will inform the author of substantial changes.
5) Since space for Opinions articles is limited, we reserve the right to select articles from those we receive for publication. We will attempt to print any article we withhold from publication for space reasons the next week.