From The Concession Stand

Wiffle Ball: ‘Gentleman’s Game’ Of The 1980s
By STEVE BYERS

“It’s the sport of the ’80s,” says Rich DuBose. Pete Astapchik calls it “kind of like Buddhism.” In my never-ending
search for the uncommon and unsung in Davidson sports, my travels have taken me to Julia Johnson House, where the
game of Wiffle ball is being revived. This grand sport has moved from the grammar school playgrounds to the backyard
of Julia Johnson.

For those of you who were born in Outer Mongolia and are unfamiliar with the game, suffice it to say
that Wiffle ball is a close relative of those neighborhood “tennis ball” or “stick ball” games you played as a
kid. If that still leaves you in doubt, you can always write for the official Wiffle ball rule book (headquarters
in Connecticut). No kidding — Wiffle ball is a corporation run by men in three-piece suits. This is serious stuff.

It may be serious stuff, but the guys at Julia Johnson take it one step further. Astapchik credits himself with
bringing the game to the house, and he notes that good equipment is hard to find. Sparing no expense and
leaving no stone unturned, Astapchik finally located regulation bats and balls at Woolworth’s in Charlotte. For instance, there are two
sizes of balls. The larger one, a steal for one dollar, is not much of a challenge to hit, according
to the Julia Johnson players. So they prefer to sharpen their skills with the smaller, 79¢ model.

As for hitting with the plastic bat, most players opt for the standard two-handed grip. Others, though, swing with only
one arm, claiming greater flexibility and power. However, Wiffle ball purists pooh-pooh this notion: “It’s a bastardization of the game.”

According to David Hutchinson, the rules of the game are few and simple. They play “whenever they feel like it”
and usually “until it gets dark.” Not very professional, but come to think of it, their backyard does bear a
striking resemblance to Wrigley Field. First base is “some plank,” second is a “bunch of sticks,” third is the big
tree (of course) and home is “that worn-down spot.” A home run is any hit that clears the white picket
fence in the air (many are wind-aided). Not exactly worthy of Norman Rockwell, but you make do with what you’ve
got.

Because there’s no guarantee of 18 players every time somebody suggests a game, the house has had to alter the
rules. There are no called balls or strikes and no foul-ball limit, though Astapchik is heading a committee to change
these outdated ways. Also, each team is now required to supply its own pitcher, ensuring that each team’s time-at-bat will
be more of a batting practice than a pitchers’ duel.

The fun begins, though, once contact is made. One can make an out three ways at this point: by flying
out, by being forced at a base (even though no one has to catch the ball at the base, or
even be there!) or, and this is my favorite, being hit by the ball before reaching first base. Thus the
requirement that you be able to take punishment as well as give it. Probably better to skip all these complications
and just jack the ball over the fence.

Although Astapchik claims, “We play a gentlemen’s game,” there is no faster way to start an argument in Julia Johnson
than to suggest that first floor might be better than second or that Tom Walker has hit more round-trippers than
Hutchinson. Tom Ratchford may consider himself the defensive specialist of the house, but everyone I talked with agreed on one
thing — Scott Beaver is the “Marvelous” Marv Throneberry of Wiffle ball.

Lacrosse Warriors No Longer Play To
By CHRIS HOLDEN

I am forced to take exception to Hunter Gourley’s patronizing reference to the Hardee’s “steak biscuit and orange juice” special
in The Davidsonian of two weeks past. We have depended on the Hardee’s steak biscuit for many seasons and it
has served us well. We can only hope that callous bigots like Gourley can be taught the evil of their
ways.

Mr. Gourley is of that paleolithic genotype that lures modern man (boy) onto a rugby field. The superior neurological development
of Lacrosse players relative to rugby animals is evidenced by...Our wise adaptation of a stick and projectile for pugilistic purposes,
rather than our head, however thick. That aside, let it be known that the Lacrosse team ended their season triumphantly
on Saturday with a 10-9 defeat of Elon. Senior midfielder Clark Carter tallied five important goals, yet there was another
incident that captured the public’s attention. Sophomore standout Mark Williams purportedly had an out-of-body experience after being blindsided by two
hulking monsters. Evidence points to his temporary clinical death, and Williams seems to have left his body for a few
moments. Williams escaped with two cracked ribs and a renewed faith.

Later, this reporter was chatting with a sideline observer as we munched thoughtfully on steak biscuits and juice from a
local Hardee’s. “You know Buster,” she said, “Lacrosse is a great sport. It’s got elements of basketball, soccer, football, hockey,
and horseshoes. The problem is, I sometimes get a bit confused, for I’m retarded when it comes to the rules
of the game.” Never one to ignore the plight of the handicapped, I have prepared this short primer.

Lacrosse was invented by North American Indians who played on “fields” of 100 miles or more, and in important contests,
they often played to the death. The game is only slightly more civilized now. Due to zoning ordinances, the modern
field is limited to the cowardly size of 120 by 60 yards or smaller. It is divided into two halves,
with a small square goal at either end. The object of the game is much like basketball or soccer: the
offensive team works the ball in an effort to score. At the beginning of a quarter or after a goal,
a face-off is held to determine possession, much like hockey. There are 10 men per team: three attackmen (predominantly offensive),
three midfielders (both offensive and obtrusive), three defensemen (neither offensive nor obtrusive, but merely harmless beasts with sub-normal intelligence), and
one goalie. He must face shots of over 120 mph with nothing more than his slightly enlarged stick and slightly
deformed sensibility. A team may only have six players at a time in its offensive half of the field, and
seven at one time in their defensive half. Any arrangement other than this constitutes offsides, and results in a penalty
to be served by the offending party. Penalties are quite similar to serving jail time for a minor offense; they
may not last very long, but they sufficiently damage the well-being of the team. Other penalties include violent checks and
uncontrolled play that may or may not result in bodily harm. These judgments are left to the discretion of the
referees, who serve a function roughly similar to that of a professional wrestling official. Indeed, many loose-ball situations resemble tag-team
brawls, and a body slam off the turnbuckle is not unheard of. The small circle around the goal is called
the crease; it serves as the goalie’s own private Idaho. No player from the opposing team may interfere with the
ball or goalie while in the crease, but once he sets foot outside, he is fair game. So there you
have it, Lacrosse is really quite simple, yet satisfying for the bloodthirsty fan.

FAMILY NIGHT
Every Monday Night 5 To 10
PIZZA
BUY ONE PIZZA (ANY SIZE) GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE FREE

Did you know that Whitey Ford and his son made the first (and only?) Wiffle ball commercial? Did you know
that the official balls are personally autographed by Orioles pitcher Scott McGregor? (Either he got his start playing Wiffle ball
and wants to give something back to the game, or he is hurting for endorsements.) Did you know that the
name comes from the sound the ball supposedly makes when thrown or hit? Do you care? We've heard the prediction
that the game will be the sport of the ’80s and that it is akin to Buddhism(?), but can anyone
play? Hutchinson thinks so. Asked what it takes to excel in Wiffle ball, he deadpanned, “You know, just a lot
of talent.” See you out at Julia Johnson House sometime. And bring your spikes.

Quote of the Week: “If we thought your opinion was important, we would have consulted you last night.” — U.S.
Olympic Coach Bobby Knight, responding to reporters’ criticism of the omission of Antoine Carr in the 20 players left after
Monday's cut.
