LAY {

By STEPHEN MANK

The Go-Go's released their latest L.P. amid great journalistic stir. The band had suffered near break-ups, managerial troubles, open heart
surgery, a broken wrist, and writer’s block and still managed to create a good album.

Meanwhile, a far less renowned band created less of a stir for an album that showed much more inspiration than
the Go-Go's.

Each track on the Bangles’ All Over the Place offers a different strain of the first British invasion as translated
by the group. The harmonies are excellent, sounding somewhere in between the Beatles, the Mamas and the Papas, and the
Seekers (“Georgie Girl”).

The women have an amazing range which they prove without flaunting on songs like “Going Back To Liverpool,” where a
three-part harmony effortlessly jumps an octave up.

In addition, the musicianship is superb. The rhythm section, with new bassist Michael Steele, slides from simple to complex at
precisely the right time. The guitars are often hard-edged and played with enough precision to give even the most chauvinistic
rocker pause.

Musicianship and vocal ability, however, are hard sole criteria for judging a band. The Bangles have an excellent grasp of
musicianship, and a surprisingly good grasp of album-making. From the start of side one, the group rocks through complex changes
in time signature and tracks that sound more like songs than most of what is being made today.

The lyrics on this L.P. show even more insight and literacy than the E.P. “Dover Beach” boasts allusions to the
likes of T. S. Eliot: “We can come and go / and talk of Michelangelo.”

The first side ends with the sing of feedback sounding alarmingly like a harmony unto itself.

But the feedback also acts as a great transition to the second side. Here, the guitars work especially hard creating
a fine counterpoint to the stirring vocals. On “He's Got a Secret,” the guitar work sounds like the raunchiest Queen's
Brian May could eke out, while the cascading harmonies more closely resemble the Roches.

Finally, the second side closes harmony against a real string section, finally fading out with an acoustic guitar. If there
is a listener who did not like the album up to this point, “More Than Meets The Eye” is sure
to convert them.

The Bangles may not have the hit-making ability of the Go-Go's, but only because they do not write singles songs.
All Over the Place is an album that deserves hearing all the way through.

More importantly, while the Go-Go's have released a good album in spite of internal strife, the Bangles have released a
great album without excuses.

Educating Rita Defies My Fair Lady Formula

By MATT MORRIS

This week’s Pop Film, Educating Rita, immediately smells like a formula “My Fair Lady” movie, yet for no apparent reason
continues to attract large audiences on the arthouse circuit (where people call movies “films”). The sophisticates were right. There’s more
to this film than meets the promotion kit. Although Rita follows a well-beaten 1944 entertainment path, populated by even older,
“delightful” stereotypes, everything quickly moves away from the Pygmalion urchin-into-goddess premise.

In this crude, often witty little British comedy based on Willy Russell’s London Theater hit, a misanthrope professor (Michael Caine)
educates a working-class woman, Rita (Julie Waters), in the ways of Blake and Dylan Thomas, whom he considers worthless. Meanwhile,
the deceptively simple Rita teaches the professor all about life and impotence.

It is remarkable that the film succeeds at all. Under the direction of Lewis Gilbert, veteran “artist” of several noisy
James Bond epics, how, one wonders, can a basically static stage play be transposed to light-hearted, rowdy cinema and remain
faithful to its source? Gilbert, surprisingly, creates a nice structure for the film to work with — Educating Rita revolves
mainly around the two central performances and when they click so does the movie.

Armed with a lazy Liverpoolian drawl, newcomer Waters possesses a sharp comic timing when she’s not “acting.” Her spontaneity during
the actual education is delightful, but once she’s had her schoolin’ Rita, as a character, dies. Miss Waters performed her
role for a year on the stage and perhaps she’s over-practiced.

But Gilbert and screenwriter Russell are aware of this problem and smoothly switch the focus to Caine, who looks to
be giving the performance, or at least the push, of his life. Always a solid, subdued performer, from Harry Palmer
to The Man Who Would Be King, Caine has a ball with his role. Marvelously aloof and cynical, he questions
the true value of his “knowledge” and cherishes Rita’s street-world as the only thing on earth that is truly substantial.

Yet Caine’s character depends on William Blake and Dylan Thomas. Bad sedatives are better than none at all, and when
Rita breaks through this etymological wall she prepares for class by reading Blake before Caine can instruct her — in
him he sees the true folly of his foibles.

Immediately following this sequence Rita clips his hair and beard and Caine strips away any calculated histrionics. He becomes the
confused teacher. More than acting, in these exquisite final moments, Caine seems to react, allows a little of himself into
the character, and the results are powerful. Long after the lights have gone up, real emotions like these can’t vanish
in the mind.

Whitman Candies Hallmark Cards
Records and Tapes

Gift Selection and Free Gift Wrapping
School Supplies

Special Orders For New Customers — Our Specialty
Mastercard and Visa

Checks Cashed with Your School I.D.
Monday-Saturday 9 a.m.—9 p.m.
Sunday 1 p.m.-6 p.m.

in Sadler Square
Phone 892-7211

Photo Development Services
Kodak Film
Fuji Film
Polaroid Film
Tennis Balls

Complete Line of Health and Beauty Aids
Revlon Cosmetics
Maybelline Cosmetics
Cover Girl Cosmetics
