10 Friday, October 12, 1984 / The Davidsonian ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

A scene from “Pieces of Eight,” the first performance this Wednesday of the Artist Series ‘84.

The Acting Company To Start Series With “Pieces Of Eight”

By JOHN GATHINGS

Do come to “Pieces of Eight,” the premiere performance of the 1984-85 Artists Series. Do not expect to leave with
your intellect unscathed. The Acting Company, a group formed by John Houseman, will present eight one-act plays which criticize society’s
flaws and examine the way in which people overcome them. The play’s authors do this subtly, using metaphors, allusions, and
elements of naturalism.

If you saw The Dumb Waiter in the workshop plays last year, you have a foretaste of Pinter’s The Black
and White. The pace of Pinter’s plays parallels real time through close imitation of the patterns and silences of speech.
This technique realizes Pinter's goal of leaving interpretation of what transpires up to the audience: a somewhat tricky endeavor.

The other plays require the audience’s thoughtful attention for their meanings to arise. In Samuel Beckett's Come and Go, viewers
cannot interpret the action literally in order to understand the play’s complete message. Beckett presents images in his play which
serve as metaphors for the play’s message. He gives the characters little background, thus enabling the audience to perceive them
more as images rather than personalities. His plays fall into the style of “the theater of the absurd.”

The other plays present their themes through similar subtle methods. This subtlety of method links them as does their emphasis
on social commentary. The Acting Company purposefully presents them in an order that relates their themes. Stay on your toes
and watch for their relationship to each other.

The Acting Company is on its toes. The group’s members hail from Juilliard and other highly respected schools of acting.
For 12 years the group has toured the country presenting classical as well as contemporary drama. The group is “the
touring arm” of the John F. Kennedy Center. It is the only theatre company in America which concentrates solely on
the development of American actors. The company’s former members have gone on to successful Broadway and television careers, and the
company has won several prestigious awards for its productions.

If you want to experience thought-provoking, well-produced drama, this is a don’t-miss opportunity. The production will be presented Wednesday night
in Love Auditorium; tickets cost $6. Tickets and information are available through the Union, 892-2000, ext. 174.

Debate Designed To Be Fun Teams Will Mix Humor With Facts

By ROSS HOLT

Does America deserve Ronald Reagan? The Davidson debating team does not think so, and will attempt to prove it Tuesday
night as it faces off against Washington and Lee’s team. The field of battle lies in the Union's Morrison room.
During the debate, partisans of any stripe can voice their opinions from the audience — a rowdy audience, hopes speech
Professor Jean Cornell, debate team coach. “We want them to cheer and yell,” Cornell said, “in the spirit of the
thing.”

The debate will not be serious, competition-style argument, she said. Instead, the teams will mix humor and satire with facts
and statistics. Sophomore Joel Johnson, as first negative speaker, will lead the team into the debate. Johnson said Davidson will
argue that Reagan is an undesirable leader, so America does not deserve him. To prove this, Johnson said, the team
will use Reagan's policies, statements, contradictions, and “the times he’s put his foot in his mouth.” Mainly, Johnson said, the
team will use “what he’s said and done.”

Freshmen Keith Finch and Mark Chen will follow Johnson in the debate. Finch will present the second negative argument, and
Chen will present a rebuttal to Washington and Lee’s arguments. After two affirmative and two negative speakers, Cornell said, Washington
and Lee professor Halford Ryan, the moderator, will open the floor to comments and questions from the audience. Then, the
debaters will make closing statements in rebuttal speeches.

In preparing for the debate, Johnson, Finch, and Chen have practiced...Debating other team members, freshmen Charles Tambia and Anna Erwin,
sophomore Russell Bitter, and junior Doug Desjardins round out the team. Bitter acts as captain. Cornell noted that Washington and
Lee could interpret the question sarcastically (i.e., America is in such bad shape, it deserves someone like Reagan). Consequently, Davidson
could be forced to argue the opposite, for Reagan. “If they take the sarcastic attitude,” Cornell said, “we'll have to
argue really the affirmative.” The debate’s style will be informal. “It’s not going to be highly technical,” Bitter said. “It’s
designed to provoke the audience, designed to be fun.” Audience reaction should determine a winner, Cornell said. Though Davidson has
the home court advantage, Cornell noted that she had invited the Dean of Students, who traditionally determines the winner. “And
Will Terry always gives the decision to the visitors, no matter how awful they are,” she said.

Material Contributed By Ted Wilson

Don't Hold Your Breath, The New College Directory Has Arrived

Getting the yearbook last week was a thrill, but I was truly holding my breath for the most underrated College
publication of all, the College Directory. Many questions haunt me about the ’84-85 Directory. We’ll start with the cover. What
is going on here? Are these eight people falling into place or out of it? Does this cover symbolize the
dissolution of faith, with religion professor Karl Plank on the left and Union Operations Manager Elizabeth Smiley on the right?
Or is it the opposite, showing the unity of all branches of the College? Why so cryptic? And where did
all the other pictures go? Did those people not give enough money to be on the cover? Did they back
out at the last minute? Or is this the yearbook nightmare come to life? Did the printer just leave out
a few? Oh, what are the answers to the questions? What is going on here?

The questions continue as I view page one. “Social Affiliation” in particular is a maze of puzzles. ATO? Doesn’t ATO
R.I.P. these days? When did those nine pesky fraternities return? Are they off campus or on? Do they self-select? Can
I join?

MORE OR LESS
By ANN MEADOR

What about Campus Club? Pyramid Club? Is this for Egyptophiles? Do many folks here like Egypt more than most? Why
haven’t we heard from these people? What is going on here?

And now for some big questions. We’ve all suspected deep in our hearts that it was true, but when did
the N.C. Fellows and Hall Counselors officially gain status as “Social Affiliation”? What about the Stuart Scholars? Have they been
snubbed? Hey Communications, what is going on here?

Ponce de Leon Hits Davidson

The new Post Office is a great improvement over the old one, and it’s nice to see that Postmaster Fisher
and company have provided new walkways to make the trip easy. The nicest amenity of all, though, has to be
the gilded wonder to the left of the Main Street entrance, a fountain that is actually pretty special. You see,
the USPS is not stupid. They don’t want the long hike to the new P.O. to wear out the people
of Davidson; that water fountain is actually a Fountain of Youth, a source of life-extending elixir. No kidding. If you
try it out, you’ll find that the walk back to campus is a little easier, the colors of the trees
a little greener, and the wrinkles on your face a little smoother. If you look close enough, you’ll see the
second hand on your watch back up just a tad. But look hard, because most people don’t notice it in
the rush of the day’s business.

A Short Update

Brady Alley/Pedestrian Walkway proceeds with new developments every day. Now they’ve installed special burglar holes in the side of Davidson
Dry Goods to make night-time entry easy. They beat the heck out of brick walls, that’s for sure.

And Finally...

Café etiquette: Large salad bowls are not frisbees and should not be hurled, indoors or out.
