14 Friday, April 6, 1984 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor  
John Gathings, Managing Editor  
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager  
Jeffrey Mann, David Resnik, Associate Editors  
Dan Voorhis, News Editor  
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor  
Steve Byers, Sports Editor  
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor  
Randy Stroud, Photography Editor  
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager  

Loophole

In an eleventh-hour decision two weeks ago, the Elections Council, a four-member standing committee of the SGA, voted to deny students running for Honor Council positions the right to campaign. This action is dangerous for two reasons. First, it makes the election entirely a popularity contest. Second, and more importantly, the Election Council did not need Senate approval to make the new rule.

We do not advocate campaigning through fliers and posters, but we do see a need for face-to-face campaigning. If seven equally qualified candidates are running for Honor Council positions, and five are more popular because they are simply more socially active, then the remaining two will more than likely be odd-manned out. In the election, the criteria would be name recognition, not some evaluative judgment of a candidate’s honor. But the Elections Council seems to assume that everyone here knows everyone else equally well. That would be the only way the no-campaigning rule could begin to work. The logical conclusion after an election, however, would be that a plurality of the student body feels that the losing candidates have less integrity — are less honorable — than the winners.

The second danger, however, is more far-reaching. An organization within the SGA should not be able to make rules about such campus-wide events as elections without the advice and consent of the full Senate. Two weeks ago, the Election Council asked the Senate to advise, but when the Senate withheld its consent, the Elections Council made its rule anyway. Senators opposing the change raised serious questions, questions deserving more consideration than the Council gave them. The motivation for the change was a half-forgotten, year-old incident of miscommunication hardly worth the weighty charge that was made. Perhaps the questions could have been answered in such a way that a majority of the Senate would have given its consent.

The Elections Council, however, presented the change for consideration on March 20, the day sign-ups for Honor Council elections began. That meeting was the only Senate meeting before the candidates' meeting at which election rules were to be explained. At least the Elections Council could have had the foresight to present their change earlier, so they could have had the time to answer the senators’ questions.

Though the Election Council’s action did not constitute an abuse of power, it points out a loophole where one could easily occur. The SGA needs one set of thoughtful, written election rules, approved by the Senate. These rules should be detailed enough so that elections policy is coherent and does not need to be made on a year-to-year basis.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first-class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Ross Holt, Editor

News Staff: David Van Pelt, Boyd Blackburn, Assistant News Editors; Roxanna Guilford, Rand Hartsell, Bob Loper, Frances Palmer, John Ruppenthal, Tom Schilling, ElizabethWhite, Allison
Wills, Ted
Wilson

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Miguel Abreu, Brian Butler, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris

Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Kerry Brown, Hunter Gourley, Scott Huie

Photography Staff: Carroll Overton, Assistant Photography Editor, Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael Dent, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Rocky Kmeicik, Laura McGee, Anderson Scott, Mike Snell, Bruce von Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Kevin Horan

Compositors: Lou Hamilton, Anne Lambert, Rob Pool, Debby Williams

Copy Editing: Christine Jackson

Circulation: David McCurry, Manager

We have to draw a line somewhere

LETTERS

Power

To the Editors:

I have appreciated the comments generated by my contribution to The Davidsonian’s March 23 issue (“No Rules Apply in World Politics”). However, a few words are yet in order. Jeffrey Mann’s comments were thoughtful, but he misses the point. The son of a former diplomat, I do not call for an end to all diplomacy, nor do I damn all negotiation. However, in crisis politics, power (not necessarily military) will determine the outcome of any situation — even talks, if the antagonists succeed in meeting together. The amiable atmosphere of the diplomats’ boardrooms can mask neither the hostile environment outside nor the real power of each adversary. As a consequence, any agreement is a result of power and therefore may be meaningless or doomed to fall apart. Power is a pervasive and unavoidable reality. I lack neither hope nor idealism. What I do not share, however, is Mann’s vision. I believe my vision is one of realism, not gloom. The idea that I am defeatist is entirely off-base. My goal has been to encourage people to examine their assumptions about the nature of world politics. Apparently, I have succeeded in getting some students thinking. That is an important beginning.

JEB Benedict

Editorial

To the Editors:

I would like to respond to several points in your editorial on honor in last week’s Davidsonian. First, you criticize an elections procedure in which candidates do not actively campaign. It seems to me that such a process allows voters to make decisions free of confusing political statements and issues. Students are able to vote for candidates on the basis of personal character traits rather than on the ability to campaign successfully. In addition, you maintain that Honor Council elections are meaningless since members are not accountable to the student body. You ask “why vote?” implying that we ought not vote this week. Such a suggestion seems grossly unfair to the candidates. Apathy solves nothing. Finally, the tenor of your article seems negative in every sense. The issues that you discuss are worthy of consideration and debate. However, you fail to present an alternative to the present system. Criticism accompanied by positive suggestions for change allows us to build a stronger Honor System.

Nancy Rosselot

Editor's note: Rosselot is a member of the Honor Council.

Korea

To the Editors:

Korea, Land of the Morning Calm: “U.N. success story, showcase of democracy, newly industrialized nation, victim of KAL 007 and Rangoon, growing economy, . . .” These images, along with countless episodes of M*A*S*H, form the basis of our impression of Korea. Unfortunately, this is far from a complete picture. The fact that we had to send this letter out of the country goes a long way to support this statement. If the censors had caught this letter we could conceivably have been de-