Friday, November 2, 1984 / The Davidsonian __ 7

SPORTS

Soccer Wins 2; Looks Toward Conference Tourney

By ANDY BARRON

Davidson took two big steps toward advancing to the Southern Conference championship game this week. Saturday, the Cats bombed VMI 8-1 here. Then Davidson eked out a 1-0 overtime win at Marshall Monday night. The two wins left Davidson 8-8-1 for the season with only two games left. A win by two or more goals over Appalachian State here on Wednesday would propel Davidson into a rematch of last year’s Southern Conference Championship game with Furman.

“We played well and we played hard against VMI,” said Coach Charlie Slagle. “Marshall is a tough place to win and we were under a lot of pressure. But the team relaxed and did the job.”

VMI was the perfect opponent for the parent’s weekend game. Everybody got to play and the folks got to see plenty of scoring. Junior Sean Austin started the rout by putting in a rebound from the goalie. This started a trend of rebound goals that caught on quickly. Freshman Craig Mattison and senior Mike Mauzé were the first to jump on the bandwagon. Then freshman Chip Whittman hit with a corner kick goal to make the score 4-0. Davidson then had its obligatory collapse of the defense. Sophomore goalie Jim Kelly made two fine saves before VMI finally scored. However, sophomore Carter Grine responded with another rebound goal. The second half was all Davidson as Austin, senior David Flowers, and freshman Andy Clarke added goals to make the final score 8-1. No matter who was on the field, Davidson controlled the action. The brilliance of Davidson’s play was so great that one of the VMI players donned sunglasses. This was to no avail, though, as Davidson walked away with an easy win.

“I think we showed what we are capable of doing,” commented Slagle. “It was a good game for parent’s weekend.”

The Marshall game was different. Instead of a cakewalk, a barnburner ensued. Davidson controlled the flow of play for most of the game, yet the Cats could not score. To add to the pressure, Davidson was forced to play one man short from 15 minutes left in regulation and through both overtimes. Austin got his second yellow card and was ejected. Regulation time ended with a series of corner kicks for Marshall. The first overtime period ended without any scoring. As the second overtime ticked away, Davidson drew closer and closer to having its championship hopes ended. With the team pushed as far forward as possible, Davidson got the needed break. Senior Mike Lufkin led junior Tony Cabrales, but Cabrales collided with the charging goalie. Cabrales’ header was deflected upward. Lufkin, following the play, pounced on the loose ball and lobbed it into the net for the game-winning goal.

“We couldn't have made it much closer,” said Lufkin. “It was a pressure-packed game, but everyone handled it well. No one panicked, even in the last few minutes. We showed we can win the big ones. Hopefully we'll win two more.”

Davidson plays at Furman tomorrow Saturday in a grudge match. Then Wednesday's clash with Appalachian State will determine who will get a chance to play for the conference championship. If Appalachian State either wins or ties, it advances to the championship. If Davidson wins by two or more, the Cats advance. A one-goal margin of victory for Davidson results in a coin toss to determine who advances.

“Appalachian State is our big game,” said Coach Slagle. “I expect a good game between two good teams.”

Cats Slip By Wofford 7-0 InFirst Season Win
By SCOTT HUIE

Break open the champagne. Get Main Street ready for a ticker-tape parade. Any O-for-10 clubs adjourn until another year. Brace yourself — Davidson won a football game.

It was not pretty, but it was a win, a 7-0 defeat of Wofford in last Saturday's game, the last at home of 1984. The Cats now stand at 1-7.

The scene in the locker room after the game teemed with histrionics — tears and cheers which usually come only with the likes of a national championship. A sigh of relief swept the locker room as the monkey that had settled on the Wildcats’ backs could now be hung in effigy.

Let the victors speak.
— Coach Ed Farrell: “It’s great to have a win under our belts. I’m just happy for our guys; no one deserved it more. We’ve played hard all year, never really playing a poor game, just not quite good enough to win. It was especially nice since it was the seniors' last home game.”
— Quarterback Jeff Haney: “I just couldn’t be happier. We’ve been off and on all year, and we finally put together what we needed to win.”
— Tailback David Turner: “We knew Wofford was a team we could handle so we just went out and did what we had to do. It sure has been a long time coming.”
— Guard Larry Spears: “Long time hell, it’s been ages. And the defense rose to the occasion once again. I'm simply on a natural high.”

It took only one play to transform these victory-starved footballers into actual victors. Early in the second quarter with the game scoreless, senior fullback Mike Longmire took a handoff at the Wofford 41, found daylight, and scampered all the way to the end zone. Longmire, who had 84 yards on 12 carries, said the play “was supposed to go up the middle, but I saw [junior tackle] Keith Rawlins put the linebacker on his butt, so I cut outside where I saw nothing but goal line and was off to the races.”

It was a good thing the Cats scored when they could because most of the time they could not. “After seven straight losses,” said Turner, who led all rushers with 88 yards on 23 carries, “we tend to expect something bad to happen and we almost lost it, but we just hung in there for the victory.”

Davidson got within the Wofford 20-yard line eight times without scoring. One attempt ended in a missed field goal, another on a fumble, three stalled on downs, and three ended in interceptions.

Defensively, the team put together a masterpiece, led by junior linebacker Scott Morrison's 14 tackles. The Cats held the Terriers to only 54 yards rushing and kept them pinned deep in their territory, unable to mount a serious threat.

If Spears and company are on a natural high, then it’s time for them to come down. Furman (5-3) awaits them tomorrow. The Paladins have defeated Davidson seven times in a row, including last year’s 55-7 drubbing. This year, Furman has won an impressive 34-30 victory over N.C. State, but has lost three heartbreakers to Southern Conference rivals.

Offensively, the Paladins may have lost Stanford Jennings to the pros, but replacement tailback Robbie Gardner may be just as good. He has rushed for 752 yards on 144 carries this year.

“We have great respect for Furman,” Farrell said, “but we don't fear them. They are virtually the same team they've had for the last several years and are still the best team on our schedule.”

Huie’s Prediction: Furman 41, Davidson 13