10 Friday, October 5, 1984 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Production Manager
Kevin Horan, Business Manager
Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor
Will Thomason, Advertising Manager
Ross Holt, Editor

Election 1984

In the 1984 elections, candidates of all parties have relied heavily on student support. In addition to voting, active involvement in the election — working for a candidate’s campaign, for example — adds another dimension to one’s appreciation of an election. That a variety of political groups have organized on campus is encouraging. Efforts to inform student voters, like the bulletin board in Chambers, should aid student voters come Nov. 6. Yet, beside the bulletin board appears the more undesirable elements of a campaign: the graffiti board. Do innuendo and off-color slurs add constructive debate to any election? Clearly, there exists a tendency at Davidson for politically-oriented groups not to tolerate their opposition. Such attitudes, of course, are not indigenous to Davidson. Didn’t a prominent Republican this summer urge all moderates to do the party a favor and leave it? No one should forget the ultimate goal of an election: to choose a government based on a consensus of the people that government will serve. Constructive debate bolsters a consensus — bickering and accusation undermines it. Unfortunately, barriers to understanding issues mount, and political organizations should work to clarify them. To distinguish between reality and illusion remains the true challenge for voters and political groups.

Great Publicity

Hey! For the amazingly low price of $1, according to the SGA minutes (9/26/84), you and all your friends can get Davidson some great name recognition, and at the same time, help save Lady Liberty! Forget the huddled masses yearning to breathe free. Forget the golden door. But remember ol’ D.C. If you — yes you — give, “this would provide great publicity for the College.” Don’t miss this opportunity. Act now — don’t miss out on your chance to help the College and to preserve a part of America, to boot!

Go, Cats!

Last week the Davidson football team came close to pulling an upset. Even though the Cats lost the game, they stomped the oddsmakers. Coach Ed Farrell noted how the strong support of a few Davidson supporters aided the Cats’ efforts. Tomorrow, at Homecoming, Davidson faces The Citadel. The Citadel Bulldogs expect to run roughshod over the Cats. But then, so did the Penn Quakers. No one can predict with certainty what will happen tomorrow. The Cats may lose. But their — our — chances will be considerably improved if the Bulldogs must contend with a massive dose of Davidson’s school spirit. Something like that would fire up the Cats, and cool down the Dogs.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 882-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class.

Davidson College.

News Staff: Boyd Blackburn and Ted Wilson, Assistant News Editors; Ginger Broaddus, Richard Cloudt, Andrea Diedrich, Chris Fisher, Roxanna Guilford, Shane Meeks, Tom Schilling, Chandon Sinha, Lee White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson, Chris Hughes, Jill Boyette

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Corliss Carter, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris, Andrew Wilson, Thurston Hatcher

Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Assistant Sports Editor; Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley

Photography Staff: Brad Brechtelsbauer, Jill Boyette, Phillip Dennis, Christian Harberts, Kevin Horan, Warriner Inge, Rocky Kmiecik, Bruce von Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Laurin de Beck, Joanneke Brentjens, John Redding, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Kevin Horan, Brooke Knight, Pauline Rhodes

Compositors: Anne Lambert, Lisa Lano, Martha Yeide

Circulation: David McCurry, Manager

LETTERS

Race

To the Editors:

I get the strange feeling that we havea race relations problem at Davidson, and that repetitious arguments presented this way or that in newspaper articles do little to narrow racial division. In light of these keen observations, I suggest that those of us who wish to improve race relations here rethink our goals and our strategy for attaining them. Specifically, I recommend that people who see a problem and want to get rid of that problem do not obfuscate their goal by involving themselves in nasty arguments about things like inherited guilt and the like. Debating such issues with people who, for some reason, dread the responsibility we all have to ameliorate this situation distracts people from our true goal and, I believe, broadens the dichotomy between blacks and whites by ignoring everybody. The goals of R.A.C.E. and the Black Student Coalition include integration, equal treatment, and reduced tension (not assimilation or dissolution of culture) among the blacks and whites on campus. These goals will be reached in two ways: by the passage of Project ’87 and, in the meantime, through the efforts of concerned and hopeful whites and blacks to do things like sit together, dance, date, do nautilus, get married, etc. Those goals will be reached; the question is, where do opinions articles enter into our plans to gain our objectives? I maintain that articles by those who are making an effort to help should always be aimed at progress in our project by reporting those things that have been done, shall be done, and must be done. This is what I consider a constructive approach. The recent history of this mysteriously controversial issue shows, however, that students enjoy using The Davidsonian as their podium for bickering in negative, even nasty tones. Clearly, many people don’t care much about the race issue and some dispute the importance of the issue entirely. The support of these people will not be won by constant exposure to mean or technical articles. Simply put, many people will not make any effort. I say leave them be; do not dispute their picayune and irrelevant objections to our goals. Granted, it’s satisfying to snap back at someone who disagrees with you. My point is that such rebuttals distract people from the positive motives of the many people excited by the racial awareness on this campus. People generally resist involvement and action in complicated issues. It is therefore nonsensical for us to get caught up in complicated squabbling over whether or not there’s a problem and who is responsible. There is, and we all are. So let us not fight in ink against those who resist improved race relations for whatever reason. We should concentrate our efforts in a more constructive vein. An exciting possibility for better race relations exists on this campus without the permission of the stubborn few.

Sayres S. Rudy

Awareness

To the Editors:

I would like to let the student body know the purpose of a group which has just started this year: Nuclear Awareness. The committee is part of the Y-Student Services Corps and has an advisor, Dr. Louis Ortmayer. It is a group on campus dedicated to sponsoring activities and programs which will help us all become better informed on the Nuclear Arms Issue. It is the conviction of the people working with the group that the nuclear arms situation is an issue of supreme importance to everyone and therefore should not be taken lightly by any person. The goals of the committee are to provide (1) factual information and (2) well-substantiated differing viewpoints in order to encourage everyone to learn more about the issue and to learn to defend an opinion. This committee is not advocating any particular viewpoint. The committee’s belief is that it is of the utmost importance for the United States to have an informed citizenry which is willing and able to exercise meaningful influence in government action concerning this issue of particular importance to us all.

Mike Wilkinson
Founder and Leader, Nuclear Awareness