Friday, April 13, 1984 / The Davidsonian — 11

OPINIONS

Government Secrets Should Stay Secret

Mike Stevens

Quick! Someone call a plumber! Our government leaks! And if we don’t get it fixed quickly, quite a few people
are going to drown in the steady flow of technology and confidential information leaving through the many “back doors” in
our “Top Secret” organizations which don’t officially exist.

Information leakage is not a new problem in organized government. There has always been a market for the exact location
of an army on a country’s border, or the type of weapons and strategy being employed. Historically, there have also
always been persons in every nation who were willing to, for a price, inform the ever-present “other side” exactly the
desired information. Spies have always been very romantic, and in most civilizations they have been dealt with by any number
of different forms of execution. It is seldom, however, that they have been praised by the people they betrayed. The
first phrase that pops to mind is “only in America.”

It hasn’t been too long ago that freedom of the press was used to justify the printing of confidential government
information in a major U.S. newspaper. This information and other top secret tidbits became available through channels which have been
called underground, illegal, and treasonous, and was presented in black and white as a service to our country. Now we,
and anyone else that wants to know, have information about any number of different projects on which our government has
spent billions of dollars to keep secret. And why? Because some concerned citizen felt it his or her duty to
keep us informed on the internal workings of our nation’s machinery.

Even a shade-tree biologist can tell you that most organisms will die if you put their guts on the outside,
yet slowly but surely this is becoming the case with our government. The problem is that now it is quite
acceptable to gain information through these underground sources. In a recent campus meeting, for example, a participant stated that the
government doesn’t release the targeting information on its missiles (for obvious reasons), but, he added, we have ways of finding
this information out. Leaks and stuff. His comment was greeted with a number of smiles and knowing glances. It was
followed up by an even more frightening comment. The comment was based on the extremely well-kept secret schedule of the
so-called “White Train” which delivers nuclear warheads. The train’s schedule is not public information. Makes sense, doesn’t it? (The idea
being that some terrorist group might stop the train and steal the missile, thereby causing one of the much-mentioned “nuclear
catastrophes” that is of constant concern to both the Armed Forces and the Nation at large.) The comment was praising
a highly organized network whereby anti-nuclear groups can find out the White Train’s schedule far enough in advance to protest
its arrival. Isn’t it obvious that if information of this importance can get out that quickly that we have a
potential disaster on our hands? In the name of preventing a holocaust, we are publicizing the exact information which could
be instrumental in causing one — and yet we praise the persons giving us this information as new sorts of
folk heroes.

Weapons technology is not the only area where these leaks surface, but it has been of particular public interest since
the issue with information leaks concerning the Stealth bomber and the wire-guided missiles. These secrets were leaked to the public,
and in the case of the missile, sold to “the other side.” The leaks are also apparent in other areas
of our system, but they are not usually quite so dangerous. It would seem that “we have met the enemy,
and he is us.” And we don’t care. Small wonder the press wasn’t told ahead of time about the Grenada
invasion. We probably would have been able to charter flights down there to watch it ourselves.

We continue to publicize information that could potentially endanger our national security, and we generally cite it as evidence that
our national security measures are insufficient. If government officials continue to be able to brief themselves on top secret information
by reading their morning paper or by watching their favorite television news magazine, it is highly unlikely that our national
security will improve.

While a shroud of secrecy around every form and function of our government is not necessary, a realization that some
information really is better off kept secret is much in order. It would seem that we need, in addition, a
national awareness of the importance of the fact that information of this type be kept secret. It is not governmental
or administrative irresponsibility that causes information leakage, but rather the emergence of a new type of traitor to our country
— a traitor who is not only widely approved of and glorified, but often well paid. It is a literary
cliché to say that the strongest enemy is that one which is...Within us, but this statement seems true of our
government’s information storage methods and our country’s press and public. Somewhere along the line, persons must have both the responsibility
and integrity to keep secrets secret. If we are not able to stop the leaky faucets of our government, it
is only inevitable that any semblance of strength we once had will rot away—from the inside.

Stephens, a freshman from Roswell, GA, is Opinions Editor of The Davidsonian.

BSC Proposes Project '87

The Black Student Coalition

In the wake of Dr. Charles King’s and Dr. James Forbes’ messages to black students on campus, we have decided
to cease our disgruntled murmurings and act. Davidson has professed a commitment to its black students, and many white students
have said that they want to help us; well, this is your chance to prove it. We have had enough
foot-dragging and intellectualism. It is not up to us to figure out for you how to do what we ask;
we can only say that we are tired of waiting. Davidson, you know what needs to be done because we
are telling you now. And it’s so very simple: if you are committed, these things will get done. We have
drawn up the following proposal. Now, Davidson, it’s up to you. And we will not wait any longer for the
things we should have had long ago.

PROJECT '87

Problem: Black students at Davidson have become increasingly discontent with the college and its policies. Our continuing disorientation and feelings
of alienation have given us reason to question seriously the extent of Davidson’s commitment to making this a healthy environment
for all students. We feel that all students, both black and white, are being cheated. Therefore, we have drawn up
the following proposal in order that Davidson might know what things are immediately necessary if its black students are ever
to view the Davidson experience as a positive one. We believe that the following goals should be met by 1987:

1. At least one hundred black students enrolled. This will require a doubling of the present enrollment of black students,
as well as a reduction in the attrition rate. Also, we believe that an effort should be made to bring
the black male-female ratio down to that of the college: at least to a ratio of 2 to 1.

2. At least ten American black professors. Although we want these professors at Davidson regardless of their academic fields, we
believe that a special effort should be made to hire blacks in the following disciplines: Sociology, English, Political Science, Mathematics,
History, and Economics.

3. A black Dean of Students. The amount of work and travel required of an Assistant Dean of Admissions/Students leaves
an administrator in that position insufficient time to address our many needs as black students.

4. At least five black studies courses, with special emphasis on the following disciplines: History, English, Sociology, and Political Science.
We feel that at least one of these courses should be made mandatory for all students, and that black professors
should teach these courses. Furthermore, we believe that the black experience should be incorporated into existing courses whenever possible.

5. By 1990, we believe that Davidson’s number of black students and professors should reflect the percentage of blacks in
America, approximately 11-12%.

The Black Student Coalition is willing to assist in any way possible in the implementation of this proposal. We feel
that the urgency of our needs warrants diligence in seeking that they be met.

This article, drafted at a BSC meeting, was edited by senior Stone Bynum and junior Janet Stovall.

At least there has been dialogue! Tony Holt and Russel Bitter responded with a logical and potent reply indicating that
there is strong potential for enlightening student debate. A college environment should be conducive to this type of significant dialogue.
Only where ideas oppose each other in the open does there exist true freedom and learning. In better words: “Let
learning be cherished where liberty has arisen.”

I would like to help form a student debate-forum session on some of these issues currently being discussed. We have
the minds, and we have the students who feel strongly enough to defend a position. So let’s take this potential
for student debate and make it constructive. Dialogue is too important not to be recognized, praised, and actively encouraged.

Mike Wilkinson

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters that are of general interest, but we
adhere to these guidelines: We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday. We require that letters
be neatly typed. We reserve the right not to print articles that a) function as advertisements; b) contain innuendo, off-color
slurs, or inside jokes; c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in other letters printed on the same
topic. The Davidsonian does not in any way endorse the opinions expressed in the letters we print.
