4 Friday, September 28, 1984 / The Davidsonian

College Names Ambassador To Head Endowment

Continued from page 1

national issues].” Secondly, many Davidson students, Perry said, enter professional careers. “It is becoming necessary to have a world view... You can’t be a top-notch person in a field if you don’t know what is going on in the world.” Perry’s aim for the program is “orderly growth,” he said. “I don’t see myself saying ‘let’s turn everything topsy-turvy,’” he added. Also, Perry plans to develop interests that faculty may have in international studies. Next year, Davidson plans to offer a new course in international affairs. “It’s going to have to evolve. I want to keep what we have already and build on that,” Perry said.

When he attended Mercer University, as an undergraduate, Perry said he received very little international exposure. However, through service in the Army, graduate school, and his diplomatic career, he gained an appreciation for other countries’ points of view. “It’s an important dimension to an education,” he said. Gaining knowledge of international issues at the undergraduate level has become important, he said.

Past Career Experience

A native Atlantan and a graduate of Atlanta’s Boys’ High School, Perry received his A.B. in 1951 from Mercer University in Macon, Ga. Perry earned an M.A. degree in 1958 in Russian studies. In 1971 he received a Ph.D. degree in political science. Both degrees were awarded by Columbia University.

As a career diplomat, Perry served in the U.S. Foreign Service from 1959 until 1983. He was appointed ambassador to Bulgaria by President Jimmy Carter and served in that position from 1979 until 1981. Previous diplomatic assignments included tours of duty as deputy chief of mission in both Prague and Stockholm, and posts in Moscow, Paris, and with NATO. During 1978-79, he worked as deputy executive secretary for the Department of State in Washington, D.C.

The Dean Rusk Program

Though the program is meant as a living memorial to Rusk, Perry said Rusk told him in a conversation this week: “Forget the memorial and make a quality program.” Rusk strongly supports the program. “If the long-range outlook [in international affairs] seems rather gloomy,” Rusk has said, “there are major assets on which to build. Perhaps our greatest asset is our young people. I am deeply convinced that this generation of young people now in our schools and colleges is destined to write a unique chapter in the history of the human race.”

In addition to honoring Rusk, the program has several goals outlined in a faculty report of Nov. 8, 1983. “To contribute effectively to the

Zoning Stalls Inn Plans

Continued from page 1

indicated he could obtain a special permit to build the inn. Problems arose, he said, when the Town’s plans for a parking lot for its urban mall project coincided with Clark’s property. Last spring the town offered Clark the appraised value of the parking lot property, $39,500, and condemned the property in June. Clark said he will dispute the town’s appraisal of the land in court. “As far as it stands now there can be no inn,” Clark said. “They have taken the property.”

Clark said he has received an enthusiastic response to a mailing campaign directed at Davidson residents. “We had the feeling that the Town council needed to hear from the people,” he said. Town mayor Russell Knox said although early reaction supported the inn, the Town board has yet to see detailed plans of Clark’s proposal. “As I understand it,” Knox said, “he [Clark] was told if he wanted the Town to consider issuing a special-use permit, he would have to submit a special plan to the board.” Knox made the distinction between a general sketch of plans for the inn, and specific plans which the board could use in considering a special-use permit.

Clark feels that the three-story inn, which would include approximately 30 rooms, “would really be a plus for the town. I want it to be an inn,” he said, “not a motel or hotel.” He said plans call for a brick building with arched windows, designed to complement College architecture. Clark said he has hired an interior planning and design firm headed by David Hipp ’49 to pursue plans for the inn. He said he plans to presenta more detailed outline of his plans to the board, but “I haven’t gotten in all the information that I want,” he said. Several Town officials have objected to Clark’s mailing campaign. “The way to handle town business is through sitting down and talking, not through box-holder circulars,” Knox said. Town planning board member John Kelton feels that information included in Clark’s petitions is “very selective in what they present and in some ways misleading.” He said the petitions imply unqualified approval of Clark’s plan by Town officials. Referring to Town planning board meetings last January, he said, “Right in that meeting we made it clear that there were some difficulties.” Clark hopes the community’s opinion will help convince the board to reconsider its decision to condemn his property. “I've always kept a low profile,” Clark said. “I don’t like being out in front, talking about my project. But it’s there, and I have to do it.”

UNITED CAROLINA BANK
Davidson 892-7815
I-77 at Hwy 73 Cornelius/Lake
137 N. Main St. Norman 892-7805

world in which they live, students during their undergraduate years must begin to gain an understanding of other cultures and an awareness of problems having a global impact; our world does not consist of independent parts. Events in the Middle East and in Central America have direct impacts on our life in the United States, and the decisions made here profoundly influence events and ways of life in every country of the globe. Increasingly, a country’s ability to relate to and understand its neighbors determines its health and prosperity in the world. International cooperation based on mutual understanding is essential as we seek to promote harmony, to eradicate hunger, and to enable people to reach their full human potential.” Immediate plans for the program involve continuing a national fund-raising campaign to reach the endowment’s goal of $10 million.

Christian Group Organizes
By DAVID McGEE

A new Christian fellowship has organized on campus, and its leaders say they hope to make it different from Davidson College Fellowship (DCF) which they feel lost the support of students. Davidson has not had a student Christian fellowship since DCF disbanded last spring. The new fellowship, called “The Unknown Fellowship,” will present an attitude and format different from the old DCF, according to President Hank van Deventer. Moreover, the fellowship’s leaders do not know exactly how the new large group will evolve. According to Deventer there is a “question of which ideas we’ll tackle first.” The fellowship meets Thursday evenings in the Big Screen Room in the Union. Seniors Dan Lindsey and Bo Tayloe will serve as the large group’s leaders. At the same time the new fellowship is forming, Deventer said its leaders feel somewhat disoriented. “You want to compare it to DCF, but you don’t want to. It’s so easy to fall back into the old ways. Now we’re thinking about what it [the fellowship] will be like in three to four years. The fellowship has never done that.” Among the “old ways” Deventer wants the fellowship to avoid is a negative stereotype that DCF had on campus. DCF was viewed as a clique, Deventer said. The new fellowship, he said, should appeal to all students. “Before we would do things together, but not in the community.” The fellowship’s leaders are seniors Hank van Deventer, Walker Douglas, Diana Bohrer, Jody Kinnett, Dan Lindsey, and Bo Tayloe, juniors Ellen Oerter and David White, and sophomores Nelson Fredsell and Clay Carroll.

BUFFET —ALL YOU CAN EAT—
Mooresville’s First And Finest Italian Restaurant
KING Of PIZZA

Sunday 12 Noon til 9:00 P.M.
Tues., Wed. & Thurs. 5 P.M. til 9 P.M.
241 SOUTH BROAD STREET MOORESVILLE

SPAGHETTI 100% Durham Wheat
OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE
FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD
PARMESAN—ROMANO CHEESE
SALAD BAR 45 Items
FRESH GREEN VEGETABLES
DELICIOUS FRUITS
FLAVORFUL MEATS
RICH DRESSINGS
TASTY CHEESES
WINE CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE
DESSERT-TEMPTING HAWAIIAN SALAD

ALL FOR $3.89
SPECIAL RATES FOR CHILDREN UNDER 12—25¢ PER YEAR

Lunch Buffet—Mon.-Sat., 11 AM-2:30 PM $2.99

PIZZA Still Mooresville’s Finest
SPICY PEPPERONI
CANADIAN BACON
ITALIAN SAUSAGE
CHOICE BEEF
FRESHLY DICED GREEN PEPPERS
SWEET ONIONS

SOUP OF THE DAY
CREAM OF POTATO
VEGETABLE BEEF STOCK
CHICKEN NOODLE
CHILI CON CARNE

PER PERSON