Friday, October 26, 1984 / The Davidsonian 11

SPORTS

Soccer Team Defeats Marshall, Loses To USC

By ANDY BARRON

The soccer team was plagued by two persistent enemies this week: defensive breakdowns and a lack of scoring. Nevertheless, the
Cats escaped major damage by winning an important conference game against Marshall last Saturday, 3-1. On Wednesday, Davidson lost to
another southern power, South Carolina, 3-1.

The Marshall game was a case of a superior Davidson squad being unable to put the Thundering Herd away. Davidson
outshot Marshall 25-8 and dominated most of the game. The Cats scored the only goal of the first half when
junior Tony Cabrales hit a sharp, low cross from the right wing that freshman Steve Ott was able to get
his head on and stick in the net. Other than this rather spectacular effort, all of the Wildcats’ scoring efforts
broke down in front of the Marshall net.

Davidson continued to control the game until midway through the second half. At this time, the defense had three breakdowns.
The first resulted in a point-blank save by sophomore goalie Jim Kelly. The second resulted in a kick save by
sophomore defender Sean Moser. The other breakdown resulted in a goal by Marshall.

“When everyone is pushing up toward the front, the defense gets slack,” coach Charlie Slagle said. “The game should have
been put away well before that goal was scored. Fortunately, we were able to pull out a win.”

Senior Steve Bernhardt provided the save for Davidson. Bernhardt played a fantastic game, hustled for every ball near him, and
even gave a clinic in boxing skills. Yet his big play was merely being held in the penalty box by
an opponent during a Davidson free kick. This gave the Cats a penalty kick. Junior Wallis Goodman easily converted and
Davidson led 2-1. Cabrales scored the final goal of the afternoon on a late breakaway.

Davidson played very well against a tough South Carolina team. USC was so good, in fact, that they had both
warm-up uniforms and game uniforms. The Gamecocks also had most of Iceland on their team. Yet the Cats had many
opportunities to score. Early, juniors Sean Goudie and Sean Austin both missed close shots. However, a punch save by Kelly
and a timely offsides call halted two South Carolina threats.

The Gamecocks drew first blood on a corner kick. It was a solid play, but nobody for the Cats moved!

“The first goal exemplified the lack of intensity we've had all season,” said senior co-captain Jim Wright. “Everyone thinks someone
else will get the ball. No one commits themselves.”

South Carolina’s second goal came on yet another breakdown of the defense. While two defenders were chasing down the ball
on the right wing, the middle was left wide open. The Gamecocks took advantage with a sharp pass to the
middle for an easy goal.

“The first half was representative of our season,” said senior co-captain Dave Flowers. “We lacked intensity and got behind. However,
I thought the second half showed what we were capable of doing.”

The Wildcats came out and played hard early in the second half and were rewarded.

Cats Fall To Bucknell, Still Winless

By SCOTT HUIE

When winning a football game becomes about as difficult as acing a Quantum Mechanics test, you typically look beyond the
traditional means of devising strategy. And apparently, that’s what Coach Farrell did prior to last Saturday's 30-3 loss to Bucknell,
the Cats’ seventh straight defeat this year.

My sources claim that Farrell had his coaching staff spy on the Thursday afternoon aerobics class in the 900 Room
to add a new repertoire.to the offensive playbook. What they came away with was a brand-new strategy called “1, 2,
3—kick; 1, 2, 3—kick.” Obviously, that did not work, so now it’s back to the drawing board. Yes, Davidson lost
again, and yes, the offense sputtered again, unable to generate anything to excite the hardly noticeable crowd of 800. “The
problem is,” Farrell said, “that we haven't been able to generate enough offense to get us into adequate field position.
It seems like we're just grab-bagging it at times. It’s not a lack of effort. We just haven't put together
what we need. We counter, run up the middle, run wide, throw deep, throw the screen pass, but nothing works
consistently.”

What has been consistent is Davidson’s inability to score, and one crucial series late in the third quarter somewhat typified
Wildcat football this year. Trailing 13-3, Davidson gained momentum as junior free safety Doug Neil blocked a Bison punt and
sophomore strong safety Gary Stewart pounced on the ball on the Bucknell 7. Four attempts to score fell short, Bucknell
regained momentum, and went on to a big 17-point fourth quarter onslaught.

The only bright spot offensively was the resurgence of the kicking game, which produced the Cats’ only score of the
day, a 28-yard second-quarter field goal by sophomore Jack McCollum. Before you brush that aside as a gross overstatement, Davidson
has not kicked a field goal since the last game of 1981. Offensively, the Cats found adequate production from the
running back tandem of seniors David Turner and Mike Longmire who combined for 96 yards. Starting quarterback sophomore Steve Bradley
connected on only five of 26 passes for 77 yards. Bucknell, however, thrived through the air as the Bison QB
finished the game with 22 completions in 32 attempts for 277 yards and two touchdowns.

“We contained their running game well,” Farrell said, “but we just couldn't stop their quarterback. He had a great knack
for finding the open receiver.” Defensively, Stewart again led the way with 11 tackles, an interception, and a quarterback sack.

Tomorrow, the Cats tackle the Terriers of Wofford College (1-5), who have lost five straight, including last week's 31-0 loss
to Western Carolina. An NAIA independent, Wofford beat Davidson in last year’s opener 21-7. The matchup, the last one at
Richardson Field this year, will feature two teams facing many of the same problems. Like Davidson, the Terriers have not
been able to generate any offensive consistency this year, being shut out twice. Farrell said, “No one on this team
is putting their tail between their legs. Next Saturday, the 1984 football team will be coming out of the tunnel
for the last time. It's a very important game. There's no question we'll be out to get Wofford.”

Put away those Humes books—listen up—the Cats will win tomorrow in a cliffhanger. After all, who could disappoint Mom and
Dad on Parents’ weekend? Nothing has worked yet, but this will. Huie’s Prediction: Davidson 20, Wofford 14.
