Friday, September 21, 1984 / The Davidsonian

15 OPINIONS

Stovall’s Appeals Broaden Race Dichotomy - Barry Elledge

I would like to address what I perceive as harmful and unfair attitudes taken in Janet Stovall’s opinions article in
last week’s paper. Early in her article, Janet tells the white person, “... you must admit that it [inequality] still
exists, that your ancestors brought it into being, and that it is your responsibility to end it.” I would ask
the question: Are we, the whites, responsible for inequality primarily because our white ancestors were the men who brought it
into being, or rather because we are humans and feel that inequality is bad? I would agree with the latter,
although I feel the former reason is implied in Janet’s article. Her command, “... you [the whites] should not decry
your slave-owning patriarchs, lest you also turn deaf ears ... to your responsibility to right their legacy of wrong ...”
seems to imply a belief in inherited guilt. Just as I feel that it is wrong to blame the German
youth for the sins of Hitler or the Japanese-Americans for Pearl Harbor, so do I feel that it is wrong
to blame young whites for slavery. A more human and compassionate approach would be a collective embrace of the responsibility
for the sins of all our forefathers, irrespective of their race or nationality. Specifically, we should all feel responsible for,
or at least implicated in, the horror of slavery (same goes for the concentration camps) insofar as we are all
human and we recognize our individual capacity for evil. This is not to dodge white responsibility; Janet’s observation that “the
burden of responsibility rests on those in leadership and with those who control the resources” is good. But her other
approach, namely the blaming of groups or races for their individual histories, does little to encourage a compassionate and egalitarian
respect for our fellow man.

In a similar vein, Janet’s repeated use of the pronouns “we” (the blacks) and “you” (the whites) does little to
bridge the dichotomy within us (the blacks and the whites). Further, such statements as “by virtue of your color ...”
and “We [the blacks] would not care how you [the whites] feel if” (and I paraphrase) your feelings did not
directly affect us (the blacks) and especially the unnecessary “... surprise! — some of us [the blacks] just don’t like
you [the whites]” betray the same kinds of attitudes that Janet cries out against in whites. For the sake of
better race relations, I would sincerely discourage the use of such statements in the future.

Lastly, I would like to address Janet’s demands of the whites at Davidson, namely that we the whites are responsible
for making Davidson a better place for blacks. Specifically, she asks that whites approach blacks and ask them about their
feelings and frustrations. This idea appeals to me in an abstract sense (and, indeed, I hope I will be interested
enough to ask my friends that do happen to be blacks), but to demand this from all whites as Janet
seems to do is unrealistic and unfair. Unrealistic because we are all (blacks and whites) finite creatures with finite amounts
of time and limited interests. To demand the above is as if to say that the worthiness of other causes
to which we might dedicate our time (peace, hunger, or education, for instance) are somehow secondary. Her demands also strike
me as unfair in the sense that they neglect individual interests. It would be unrealistic and egotistical, for example, to
demand that everyone commit him or herself to wiping out pornography. Further, to approach black people by virtue of their
being black in order to ask them questions about being black strikes me as an example of what we're trying
to get away from. In other words, it would seem to me as if I were “recruiting” blacks, that the
most important thing bringing us together was our color difference.

In closing, I would like to address Janet specifically in asserting that all whites who seem complacent or at best
oblivious to the racial problem are not necessarily foes of the cause. Just because some white person doesn’t approach you
and ask you questions doesn’t mean that person is unsympathetic, some may be shy — others (and I repeat an
earlier point) may have interests elsewhere. May I suggest that trying not to be prejudiced is in and of itself
a big step? I personally pledge to try to eliminate all prejudice in my thoughts and actions, yet for the
reasons I outlined above, Janet, I may or may not choose to follow your advice of coming up to you
and asking you about being black. But please don’t hold that against me, or against anyone else.

Elledge is a senior mathematics major from Boone, N.C.

Criticism Of Religion Misrepresents Christianity - Mike Stephens

In his essay on politics and religion, David Resnik calls attention to the religious rhetoric that has been bantered about
by Walter Mondale and Reagan since early on in the Presidential election campaign. While he makes a very valid point
concerning the apparent connection between religion and politics, and questions the necessity of this alliance (specifically concerning Ronald Reagan’s justification
of the use of religious arguments in his campaign), he fails...To make the distinction between religion and Christianity. While I
will not defend or condemn Mr. Reagan’s use of religious ideologies in his campaign, I would like to present my
view of the proper role of Christianity in political matters. To begin, I will make a distinction between the terms
religion and Christianity. Religion is the outward, organized expression of a particular belief or principle. In this country, these principles
are generally said to be based on a Christian heritage. Christianity is a personal belief in the life and teachings
of Jesus Christ. Often, religion and Christianity have no connection whatsoever. The rhetoric being passed about in this election campaign
is decidedly religious, but as to its Christian nature, only the candidates themselves know.

Politics has long been presented in terms of enforced morality. The basic moral fiber of a society is reflected in
its political system. As stated by Mr. Resnik, the political morality of the United States reflects the basic moral ideologies
of the Christian faith; our political system and the accepted outward expression of Christianity, that is religion, are necessarily and
inseparably joined. Hence, religion and politics must remain associated unless we revert to a Machiavellian system of political morality based
on tenets other than those of American society.

To connect Christianity and politics, however, is much a different matter. Christianity is a personal belief of an individual and
is not dictated by the moral or religious nature of society. It is therefore connected with political matters in an
individual manner. A statement of a church leader concerning the stance of the church, as well as a statement of
a political figure, such as Mr. Reagan, concerning the nation’s position on a moral concern represents religion — or at
least religious rhetoric. The statement of an individual concerning his or her decision based on personal Christian faith in a
political matter is a statement of Christianity. For the Christian, the connection between politics and Christianity lies in the personal
decision made by the individual to connect the two. It is not impossible to associate Christianity and politics; it is,
however, impossible for them to be connected in a realm larger than that of a decision made by a single
person. The factors contributing to this decision may or may not be influenced by religious or political figures, but the
decision is not implicitly regulated by either.

When the media responds to a political action taken by a religious group, it often makes the same mistake that
Mr. Resnik makes. The fact that Jerry Falwell is a “Born-Again Christian” influences his political maneuvering only in a way
personal to Jerry Falwell. The fact that he is the head of a religious organization is the reason he is
able to exist as a political entity. Any statement he makes reflects only the ideals accepted by Mr. Falwell personally
and his religious organization. It does not in any way bind the consciences of the members of his organization, who
are free to agree or disagree with Mr. Falwell personally or with the group he represents. When a group of
“Born-Again Christians” is purported to carry out an act, the error of confusing a religious group which espouses Christian doctrines
and a group of individuals united by a common will occurs. The Christian is responsible for his political stance only
to him- or herself and to his or her God. When he or she decides to take part in a
political event, it is a decision made in this context.

The use of religious rhetoric in political campaigning can reflect both religious and Christian aspects. For example, if Mr. Reagan
states that due to his own personal Christian beliefs he is in favor of prayer in public schools and against
abortion, he is making a statement qualifying an aspect of his Christianity. His assertion allows the voter to see a
facet of his personal being. When he states that due to the nature of the foundation of the United States
as a Christian nation, the institution of prayer in public schools and the abolition of abortion should be carried out,
he is making a statement of a religious nature, and does not necessarily reflect in it his own personal beliefs.
By the same token, Jerry Falwell can make the same statements as the head of the Moral Majority to the
same effect.

Confusing Christianity and religion is common and should be avoided. A statement made by a “religious leader” should be exactly
that and does not indicate that all “Born-Again Christians” support any single policy. Religious leaders and politicians are equally guilty
of abusing Christianity for political or religious motives. Mr. Resnik, also, is guilty of associating the term “Christian” with statements
of religious rhetoric. It would be grand if statements of religion necessarily reflected the beliefs of Christianity, but it is
a simple fact that they do not. This misrepresentation is mainly due to the decline of Christian values in religious
institutions. Individual Christians have the right as well as the responsibility to learn and decide for themselves how they should
respond to political situations. To do less is to deprive themselves of an aspect of their Christianity. Religious rhetoricians making
statements which in no way reflect aspects of their individual Christianity make this process difficult, but at the same time
they mandate it.

Just as a point of interest: The term “Born Again” was coined by no less a religious figure than Jesus
of Nazareth.

Stephens is a sophomore from Roswell, Ga., and is Opinions editor of The Davidsonian.

(continued on page 5)
