10 Friday, January 27, 1984 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Ann Meador, Editor
David Resnik, Executive Editor
Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor
John Gathings, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

Potential Problem

The possibility of a Love Canal at Davidson is remote, but all the recent publicity about the storage of toxic chemicals demonstrates the urgency of the potential problem. The transformers by the golf course may contain nothing more dangerous than mineral oil. All the same, the possible presence of a hazard like PCB needs quick attention and resolution. We are glad to see the College cooperating with the environmental health officials. We urge the College administration to take every possible measure to determine whether PCB is present in the transformers, and if it is, to isolate and remove the toxin before any further damage occurs.

The first reaction to a potentially embarrassing event such as this might be to tighten up and try to minimize the news. We hope that will not happen in this case. The College should concentrate on resolving the question soon and not concern itself with how the story will look on the six o'clock news. The upcoming lab tests might show that the transformers contain no PCB or other toxic material. We certainly hope so. Even if no danger exists, the attention raised about the transformers will have been worthwhile. The remote chance of such a lethal toxin as PCB entering the environment justifies government attention and nine thousand dollar tests. Better a few red faces and some money spent than an ecological disaster.

Pet Peeves

While we're at it there are a few things that really bug us. Not big deals, nothing to raise hackles and get indignant about — just annoying. Like, you can’t get a toasted bagel in the Union. They have perfectly adequate bagels, but we can only get them after they’ve been bombarded with microwaves. That makes them all soggy and chewy, not at all like a bagel should be. God wanted bagels to be toasted. We remember that from Humes somewhere. (Please, no letters; take it on faith.)

You have to use exact change in the cigarette machines. The dials in the post office hurt our fingers and are hard to open when it’s cold. There are no brick paths across the Great Quagmire to Irwin and Knox. We hate the way the brick paths hold water and then freeze so we slip and fall. In fact, we’re not very fond of bricks, anyway. Sometimes they don’t cover the bread in the Commons and it gets all hard and crusty. Grrrrr. Another Union Café peeve. No sugar ice cream cones in which to eat the pistachio ice cream they also don’t have.

Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: David McGee, Assistant News Editor: Boyd Blackburn, Roxanna Guilford, Rand Hartsell, Bob Loper, Wayne Magruder, Frances Palmer, John Ruppenthal, Tom Schilling, Julie Sternal, Lisa Thomas, David Van Pelt, Elizabeth White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Ida Phillips, Assistant Arts and Entertainment Editor: Miguel Abreu, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris, Tim Waples, Andrew Wilson

Sports Staff: Scott Huie, Assistant Sports Editor: Kerry Brown, Steve Byers, Hunter Gourley

Photography Staff: Carroll Overton, Assistant Photography Editor: Brad Brechtetsbauer, Michael Dent, Caryl Dawson, VirginiaHarris, Kevin Horan, Rocky Kmiecik, Laura McGee, Anderson Scott, Mike Snell, Bruce von Stein. Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey. Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt. Production Staff: Kevin Horan. Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Debby Williagy. Copy Editing: Christine Jackson. Circulation: David McCurry, Manager.

Letters

Selective Disregard
To the Editor:
When I picked up last Friday’s edition of The Davidsonian, I noticed a glaring omission. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s birthday was made a national holiday this year, and the Black Student Coalition’s Annual M.L.K. Memorial Service was done on an even grander scale. There was no story in The Davidsonian. Surely you knew — there were posters and flyers all over campus. So, why weren’t you there?

This is not a first. I realize that there are new people on the staff this year, and you are not responsible for the mistakes of your predecessors. However, it does not seem that the cloud of ignorance enveloping Black achievement is in any great danger of being dissipated by this year’s staff. One of the purposes of the Black Student Coalition, as stated in our Constitution, is to bring an awareness of the Black experience, culture, and history to this campus. And yet, I often hear the complaint that the Coalition never does anything. It would be a great deal easier to dispel some of those negative notions if the campus media paid adequate attention to the things that we do accomplish.

When Lerone Bennett spoke at Davidson last year, there was no story. When the Coalition presented the play No Place to Be Somebody, there was no story. I get personally angry with the tendency of people here to believe that Blacks do nothing of any importance, but I am disgusted that The Davidsonian is, in essence, saying the same thing by way of its sins of omission. We are tired of your ignorance and tired of your selective disregard. I suggest that The Davidsonian wake up and look around — you might be surprised at how much you are missing.

Janet M. Stovall
Vice-President
Davidson College Black Student Coalition

Dismay
To the Editors:
It was with a great deal of dismay that I received the news regarding the contract termination of Dr. Peter Venturelli. I must admit that it came as something of a surprise. If Davidson College, which prides itself on presenting an all-around education for its student body, cannot include a member of the faculty who does not ‘fit the mold,’ then something is indeed wrong. I have been in two of Dr. Venturelli’s classes and enjoyed them very much. While his style of teaching may not have been typical of Davidson courses in general, the freedom given to the students to explore, and thus become more deeply interested in, the various levels of sociology lent itself to a more meaningful class. As a sociology major myself, I had looked forward to further courses with Dr. Venturelli during my senior year, and can only hope that the present situation will be resolved in his favor.

Preston T. Robertson, ’85
J.Y.A., University of East Anglia, England

Athletic Forum
To the Editor:
In my four years as a student at Davidson, and my 12 years as a coach, I have always believed that communication is one of Davidson’s most valuable traditions. In this spirit, I would like to invite all those interested to attend an open forum on Athletics at Davidson at 7:00 p.m. Thursday, Feb. 2 in the 900 Room.