Friday, March 16, 1984 / The Davidsonian 3

Campbell And Moffett Awarded Watson Fellowships

By JEFFREY MANN

The Thomas Watson Foundation announced yesterday that seniors Malcolm Campbell and Stephanie Moffett have been awarded prestigious Watson Fellowships which
provide $10,000 for independent post-graduate research and travel.

“I got the letter and read as far as ‘We're pleased to inform you...’ before I did a backward somersault
and ran off to tell my advisor and some friends,” Campbell said. Campbell will go to Australia to study the
lungfish as a possible link in the evolution of fish to amphibians. “I realized this afternoon that my jaw hurt
from smiling so much today,” Moffett said after learning that she will be able to go to Senegal and Indonesia
to study the ancient storyteller as a precursor to theatre.

The Watson Foundation seeks “to provide Watson Fellows an opportunity to explore with thoroughness a particular interest, to test their
aspirations and abilities, to view their lives and American society in greater perspective, and concomitantly to develop a more informed
sense of international concern.” The Foundation began in 1968 in honor of IBM founder Thomas J. Watson. This year the
Foundation awarded 70 fellowships at selected small liberal arts colleges.

The selection process began this Fall when 15 seniors submitted written proposals to the Graduate Fellowships Committee at Davidson. The
committee selected four nominees to advance to national competition. Though the Foundation can select any number, or none, Davidson traditionally
has two Watson fellows.

Campbell to go Down Under

Campbell, who has also been accepted to graduate programs at Yale and Johns Hopkins Universities, will leave sometime between June
1 and September 5, “depending on how the paperwork goes.” He intends to go to the University of Queensland in
Brisbane, Australia to develop contacts on the faculty and gain access to the university’s scanning electron microscope. He will then
go to the Great Barrier Reef to collect 10 to 25 lungfish. He'll dissect and preserve the fish’s hearts for
further study in Brisbane.

“The research will be interesting,” said Campbell, “but more important for me will be to take time out from the
undergraduate, graduate, doctoral — boom — cycle. That’s too fast for me... A lot of personal growth will come out
of this thing.”

Moffett to Study Language First

Moffett will spend the summer studying the Indonesian dialect in Ann Arbor, Michigan. In August she’ll fly to Senegal and
spend a few weeks studying the local Wolof dialect at a Peace Corps school before studying the griots who preserve
and transmit oral history through music, dance, and storytelling.

Around February she plans to go to Indonesia. There she will work with an Asian counterpart to the griot, called
a dalang. The puppetry tradition is particularly strong with the dalangs. “Both these ancient storytellers serve the same general function,
but use very different methods,” Moffett said.

Both Campbell and Moffett plan to make careers of their interests after the one-year program. Campbell will pursue graduate and
doctoral work in research biology. Moffett plans to pursue acting, and wants to get a master in fine arts degree
(MFA) after she returns. “Whether or not I go on in acting, I want to bring some of the theater
of the Third World to America,” she said.

EPA Official Assesses Extent Of Toxic Waste

By TED WILSON

“These guys are crooks,” said Hugh Kaufman about Reagan Administration officials Ed Meese, James Watt, William French Smith. Kaufman, currently
the Assistant Director of the Environmental Protection Agency’s Hazardous Site Control Division, spoke about toxic wastes on Wednesday night in
the 900 Room. “They don’t want these issues dealt with and they have no respect for the laws of the
country,” Kaufman said. He said that of the 17,000 toxic emergencies in America, we've cleaned up six. He said that
although President Reagan showed support for the EPA’s Superfund Project in his State of the Union Address, the next morning,
the White House “admitted that Reagan lied. That, in fact, the...say that at these hearings, he may get to it.”
But, contrary to his speech, “Reagan doesn’t want to reauthorize the program now.” Kaufman, who uncovered the waste dump at
Love Canal, said that the name itself, Love Canal, and the polluter’s name, Hooker Chemical Company, caught the public’s attention.
Investigations and hearings led by Kaufman ensued. “The Carter administration did a one-eighty. Before, he wanted no investigations of the
catastrophes. Instructions had come to me that neither I nor anyone on my staff was to discover or investigate any
more toxic chemical sites until further notice. But the administration changed and gave the EPA resources and permission to investigate.”

Kaufman emphasized the importance of the Superfund. He said it doesn’t use much taxpayers’ money, but uses money won from
lawsuits. “It’s a revolving fund. We give the community an alternate water supply and sue the polluters. The money we
get from the suit is put into the Fund to be used to give another community an alternate water supply.”
The main objective is “for polluters to pay for the cleanups, not the taxpayers. What I hadn’t counted on,” Kaufman
said, “was Ronald Reagan.” He said that Reagan “tried to kill the program. The EPA and the Department of the
Interior, as well as other domestic agencies, were a threat to the multinational corporations.”

Kaufman criticized high government officials who hold jobs that conflict with their interests. For example, he said, “James Watt, Secretary
of the Interior, was the attorney for welfare ranchers. These ranchers let their livestock graze on government land and get
rich on it. They wanted the government to give them that land.” Kaufman criticized the appointment of Ed Meese as
the new Attorney General. “Ed Meese once said, concerning the shootings of several innocent bystanders in California during the 60s,
‘They deserved to die.’ He assumed the role of the judge and jury and that’s not conservative,” Kaufman blasted. “They
must have a grand jury to decide. And with that mentality — ‘they deserved to die’ — Meese is going
to be the chief law enforcement official in the United States.”

Kaufman gave several additional accounts of criminal activity within the government. “William French Smith was involved in obstruction of justice.”
Kaufman felt that the results of investigations of EPA officials were not just, because only Rita Lavelle was convicted of
wrongdoing. She was only convicted of perjury. Kaufman, who vehemently accused the Reagan administration of not enforcing EPA regulations, noted
other cases of crimes in the Administration. “Committees have concluded that there are criminal acts involving James Watt.” He added
that “the Administration tried to blackmail me, and they [illegally] monitored my telephone calls.” Kaufman added that when he had
gotten enough documentation to go to Capitol Hill, he went, denouncing the Administration’s enforcement of EPA regulations. “Reagan invoked executive
privilege and Anne Gorsuch wouldn't give [relevant documents] up. The scary part was that Gorsuch testified that Reagan had seen
the subpoenaed documents [and hence knew the incidents were taking place] when he invoked executive privilege.” The hearings led to
the firings of several EPA officials, including Gorsuch.

Kaufman suggested that in many cases, toxic waste problems are preventable. “There are safer substitutes for EDB, a pesticide that
the government has known to be harmful for years.” He said that, “the Department of Agriculture advertises these harmful chemicals,
pushing them on the farmers.” This, the farmer’s desire for ‘quick fixes,’ and chemical companies’ influence in the economy and
in politics, causes problems,” he said. He emphasized that “we must make the responsible parties pay, not the taxpayers. Also,
the government should not tell the industries how to operate, but must act as a referee.” Kaufman urged people to
“follow these issues. Make sure you're being protected. And, make sure that tax money is used to investigate and not
to line the pockets of the fat cat friends of politicians.”

Jeff Mann
