THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXIII, Number 23
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, April 20, 1984

DCF Dissolves, Members Consider Reorganization
By DAN VOORHIS and BOYD BLACKBURN

“DCF is dead,” declared Davidson Christian Fellowship President Frank Ivey. In a dramatic ceremony at Coffee and Cokes last Wednesday
in front of Chambers, several DCF members dressed in sombre clothes, and bearing a coffin, pronounced the organization’s demise. This
means that there will be no more large group meetings. The Fellowship ceases to exist. Spokesmen Craig Detweiler and Ivey
explained that DCF had failed in its mission to meet the needs of Davidson students. They criticized themselves and DCF
for misrepresenting the true nature of Christianity. Ivey said in his speech, “I have been dead because I have failed
to love people as I should. I have been dead because I failed to reach out to others where they’re
at. I have been close-minded, and have judged people unfairly. I have been insensitive to people’s needs, insensitive to the
very point of not even trying to find out what those needs are. But most of all, I have been
dead because I have not been alive. I have not been alive to the power and glory of Jesus Christ
in my life.” Ivey continued, asking onlookers not to confuse DCF with the word of Christ. “DCF is dead, but
Jesus Christ is alive,” he said. He warned the audience against identifying the practices and attitudes of DCF with the
teachings of Christ.

AI Speaker Recounts Experiences in Zimbabwe
By DAVID VAN PELT

“Torture is a scourge that by all rights shouldn’t exist, that should be banished from the earth,” said Amnesty International
speaker Peter Briscoe, who spoke in the Morrison Room last Monday. As an example of the practices of many countries,
Briscoe detailed his own experiences in the south African nation of Zimbabwe, where “torture is the standard method of investigation.”
Briscoe was imprisoned in Zimbabwe for over a year between 1982 and 1983, beaten, interrogated, and tortured. Zimbabwe, formerly Rhodesia,
existed under white minority rule until 1980 when a long civil war ended with the election of black Prime Minister
Robert Mugabe. Mugabe has ruled the country since then. Briscoe was born and educated in South Africa. Trained as a
pilot, he left the South African Air Force for the Rhodesian Air Force in 1969. He remained in the country
after its independence in 1980, and though Zimbabwe has lost almost 25 percent of its white population since then, Briscoe
says he had “every intention of staying in the country.” Briscoe’s arrest occurred as a result of the destruction of
13 planes in July 1982 by saboteurs at Zimbabwe’s main air base. Briscoe became a member of the board of
inquiry investigating the incident, but was later arrested by the Zimbabwe Intelligence Organization (ZIO). “They (police and intelligence officers) were
convinced that sabotage could only have been committed by whites,” Briscoe said. “I was accused of being in the committee
that set up the sabotage, and was told that I was implicated in the testimony of others,” he said. He
called the accusations “ludicrous.” Briscoe was put in solitary confinement in a tiny cell as ZIO officers tried to force
a confession.Confession. He was repeatedly beaten and subjected to intolerable (continued on page 4) DCF with Christianity. The group’s shortcomings
alienated many people from pursuing the word of Christ, he added. The majority of the campus ignored the group’s ministry,
Ivey felt. Most students saw DCF as a small cliquish group of students who kept to themselves and got together
to “shoot the bull” about Jesus Christ. According to Ivey, this image was not undeserved. “We had become exclusive rather
than inclusive—not purposely but by our focus and practice.” Thus, he said, DCF had defeated its purpose. But the tone
of the two speeches was not pessimistic. Both asked the gathering to celebrate because they saw it as a chance
for a new beginning. Whether this means a new organization will be formed remains vague. No definite plans have been
made, but former leaders of DCF will go door to door seeking student opinion on the Fellowship. They wish to
discover the students’ religious needs and solicit suggestions on a new type of fellowship. A new organization could arise out
of the ashes of the old, according to Ivey. Said former large-group leader Charles Wiley, “Something will have to take
its place. The people in DCF are in because they desire Christian Fellowship. But we're leaving the past behind, period.”
(continued on page 4)

By TED WILSON

Last Wednesday's Vereen Bell awards ceremony and poetry reading marked a celebration of the aspiring and the established in the
world of literary art. Noted poet Dave Smith, two-time runner-up for the Pulitzer Prize for poetry, judged this year’s contest
entries and announced the winners in the ceremony held in the 900 Room. Junior Lauren Smith won first place overall.
Prizes in poetry went to junior John James for second place and senior Elizabeth Smiley for third place. Prizes in
fiction went to seniors Anne Elliot for second place and to Earl Wooten for third place. Honorable mention awards went
to seniors Lindsey Durway in poetry and Drew Davis in fiction.

“Poetry writing means more than a hobby,” Lauren Smith said. “It would thrill me to someday make a living writing.”
However, she said she recognized the difficulty in becoming a professional writer. Smith said she gets her subject matter “by
seeing something, thinking about it, and relating it to life and to other things I see.” She added, “I like
to write after reading a series of poems that are very good.” She wants her audience to feel “the sameness,
fundamentals, and non-differences in people” by reading her poetry.

Smith And Van Pelt Win Writing Awards

The English department awarded David Van Pelt first place and Chris Bretscher second in the R. Windley Hall Freshman Writing
contest. Van Pelt said his material comes mostly from “my childhood, from both the positive and negative [experiences] that stick
out.” He said he is a “spectator,” reacting to other people and the things that happen to them. After the
ceremony, Dave Smith read several selections from his books, which include In the House of the Judge, Cumberland Station, Dream
Flights, and Hommage to Edgar Allan Poe. His poems are filled with imagery (continued on page 4).
