Friday, February 10, 1984 / The Davidsonian 5

A History Of Blacks At Davidson

A News Analysis By DAVID McGEE

When asked what he thought of the history of black students at Davidson, one student remarked, “What black history?” Next week an inter-racial student committee called R.A.C.E. (Racial Attitudes Concerning Everyone) will hold a discussion on problems facing blacks on campus. The status of race relations here has its origins in the 21 years blacks have attended Davidson. Their history here is twofold. First stands the decision to admit blacks and the initial problems which arose from segregational tendencies in the community. But other difficulties emerged after the integration of blacks into the College, problems which still plague the campus today.

Davidson Admits Blacks

Prior to 1961, the College maintained an unwritten policy not to admit blacks. Many persons associated with the College held that Davidson was founded as a Christian male institution for whites. However, this policy was challenged throughout the 1950s — but not by a substantial majority. The issue of whether or not to admit blacks came before the Trustees of the College in October 1959. In his address to the Trustees, President D. Grier Martin said, “It is not in the best interest of the College to admit Negro students at this time.” But, in 1961, the Board of World Missions of the Presbyterian Church petitioned the Trustees to admit blacks from Africa who would prepare for further training for missions work in their home country. The Trustees approved the acceptance of three black Congolese students for the class of 1965, but none enrolled. The following year, Benoit Nzengu, a Congolese, became Davidson’s first black student. Another African enrolled in 1962.

Reaction to the first blacks on campus was quite apparent. A student poll taken at the time revealed that only 53 percent of the student body favored integration. Also, five local businesses stated that they would not serve the two black students. President Martin persuaded the owner of several movie theatres in Charlotte to allow black students to sit with their white friends, but only if they called before they came and brought two white students to sit on both sides of each black. Religion professor Daniel Rhodes chaired a committee to prepare the community for the arrival of the two Africans and to make the two students feel as comfortable as possible here. “It was hard to sort out the motivations for opposing integration. Some felt that the action was hasty,” Rhodes said. “Others were not fully convinced that the races were equal in any profound sense. It was a time of deep soul searching across the country and in the community.”

In the spring of 1962, the Trustees approved by a majority vote a new policy which opened the College to students regardless of race or nationality. Two American blacks, Leslie Brown and Wayne Crumwell, entered Davidson in 1964. They were selected from 11 black applicants and ranked in the top five percent of their high school classes. By 1968 there was a total of eight blacks attending Davidson. The increasing presence of blacks on campus further challenged the segregated institutions on campus. In April 1968 a group of students and faculty boycotted and picketed a local, black-owned barber shop which refused the business of blacks, but subsequently went out of business; the owner blamed the boycott and the change in his business practices. When a local restaurant owner asked a basketball recruit and his family to sit in the segregated section, the recruit decided not to play at Davidson. Some say that the incident cost Davidson that year’s national championship. According to Dean of Students Will Terry, “there was an awful lot of desegregation taking place that next afternoon.” Commenting on integration in Davidson, Wayne Crumwell ’68 said, “You can’t integrate fully here or anywhere else. What good is there in integrating if blacks must learn about white culture in order to survive... whites do not have this incentive to learn about black culture. The situation here is transitory and circumstantial. Many problems for blacks are due to history and not specific obstacles... it’s a matter of changing Davidson’s image. It’s good that most of those [blacks] who stick it out four years here graduate.”

—From the Black Experience study

“You have to carry around your I.D. everywhere to show that you really go to school here. I can’t even get a check cashed or get into the gym without someone asking for my I.D. to prove who I am. I don’t play basketball or football. The majority of black guys here do. I felt isolated when I came freshman year because all the other guys had been here for a few weeks working out and already knew each other. They all felt that, with more black students, it would be easier to maintain some solidarity in their identities as blacks.”

—John Eley ‘83 March 13, 1981

—Charles Dockery Associate Professor of French Feb. 13, 1981

—William Bynum ‘84 —Davidson student —Vincent Parker ‘81Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"If the feeling behind it is not real.” Clashes between blacks and traditions at Davidson have occurred recently, however. In the spring of 1981, the Black Student Coalition organized a protest against “Old South” day, an annual event of the Kappa Alpha Order. Fraternity members and their dates attended a social gathering dressed in costumes of the Civil War era. KA President Eric Crum '81 defended the event as “a celebration of KA’s gentlemanly and chivalrous heritage.” Alvin Atkinson '81, speaking for the BSC, stated: “We do object to their annual celebration of a period which, for blacks, signifies the greatest oppression that our people have suffered.” KA held the event off campus but canceled it the following year.

Admissions

Through the 1970s, the number of black students increased steadily; between seven and 15 were admitted each year. Currently, the 55 blacks on campus constitute the largest number Davidson has ever had. “It was clear when I came here [in 1979] that Davidson had a high commitment to recruiting minority students,” said Dean of Admissions John Griffith. Griffith said that the College lies in line with schools similar to Davidson in its recruiting efforts. The competition is keen for blacks who have the qualifications to get into Davidson, and the admissions department devotes a large amount of its resources to recruiting blacks, Griffith said.

Ten years ago, athletic coaches and their assistants carried out most of the recruiting of blacks. The admissions department began an active program to seek black students when Calvin Murphy '70, a black student, asked admissions director Ed White if he could help recruit more black students. An Assistant Dean of Admissions and Students position was created in 1977 to give emphasis to bringing more black students to Davidson and to serve as an advisor to blacks on campus.

Problems Facing Blacks

The problems facing blacks on campus have existed since blacks have attended Davidson. The attrition rate for blacks, although it has decreased in recent years, has concerned many. Already three blacks who entered this year have left Davidson. No statistics exist for the number of blacks who graduate out of the total number who enter Davidson, but of the 17 who enrolled in 1978, only five graduated in 1982 (two graduated in 1983). The following year 15 entered and 11 graduated in 1983. In 1971, six of the seven blacks who entered were seriously considering transferring at the end of the school year.

Black students and administrators often cite the lack of black professors or other role models on campus as a reason for dissatisfaction. But Davidson has had trouble in recruiting black professors and administrators. There are currently two black professors (French professor Charles Dockery and sociology professor James Wooten) and one black in the administration (Paula Miller, Assistant Dean of Admissions and Students). Psychology professor John Kelton, chairman of the presidential advisory committee on minorities, said that recruiting black staff is “a very difficult thing to do. There is a great deal of competition nationally (for black professors), and they are difficult to find in many specialties. When recruiting is going on in a department, we inform them of possible minority candidates.” In 1981, philosophy department chairman Earl MacCormac received 108 applications for a position in the philosophy department, but no black candidates applied. Recruiting more black professors is the “top unfinished business of the college,” said Dean of Admissions John Griffith.

BSC

Blacks here have complained that they have little social life at Davidson. When Davidson went coeducational in 1973, few black women were admitted until recently. Currently, 15 black women attend Davidson. In order to provide black students a support group, the BSC was founded in 1967 “to establish and maintain a spirit of solidarity among the black students of Davidson College,” according to the BSC charter. Other purposes include creating a sense of awareness of the contribution of black students to the College, aiding black citizens in the Davidson community, and providing an outlet for the social and cultural needs of black students.

BSC members emphasize that the organization is open to all students. Former students recall that the BSC did little in its early years because of a lack of student support and funding. In 1981, the BSC received a Patterson Court house and has a $7,000 budget this year provided by the Activities Tax Council. The BSC will sponsor a play in the spring, as well as a Martin Luther King Lecturer, a gospel choir, and Harlem Nocturne, a variety entertainment group. In addition, BSC members devote their resources to recruiting black students, writing prospective students letters, and holding orientations for black students who visit Davidson. “I get the feeling that people see the BSC posters and shy away,” said BSC vice-president Janet Stovall. “Our events are for the entire campus,” she said.

In retrospect of black history at Davidson, a 1959 Davidsonian editorial has meaning today. “As we consider the problems, our first emotional reaction is to recoil... now is the time to begin to think about the issues involved.”