4 Friday, September 21, 1984 / The Davidsonian

New Faculty Members Come To Davidson

Professors Stott And Stough

By CHRIS FISHER

Professor Mary F. Stough, a part-time professor in the English Department this year, was born in Davidson and has kept close ties with the college and faculty for many years. Stough will teach one course of English Composition I, which she also teaches at UNC-Charlotte. She worked at Davidson in the early 1960s as an Administrative Assistant to Shaw Smith, former Director of the Union. Stough has taught freshman English since 1963. Before arriving at UNCC in 1978, she taught at Atlanta Christian College and UNC-Chapel Hill. Stough received her A.B. and Ph.D. at the University of South Carolina, and earned her M.A. at Appalachian State. Her major interest is 18th-century British literature, and she plays bridge and reads murder mysteries in her spare time. She said she is glad to be teaching at Davidson and appreciates the college’s friendliness toward new faculty. She is, however, disappointed that Davidson requires only one unit of English for graduation. “Since Davidson is a noted liberal arts school, I think every student would want to take at least two courses in English,” she said. After one week of teaching, Stough is impressed by her students: “The students are interesting and stimulating and lazy at times,” she said.

Professor Douglass Stott

Although this is Professor Douglass Stott’s first year of teaching at Davidson, he has taught Davidson students for the past three years. Stott was the professor coordinating Davidson’s junior year abroad program in Marburg, Germany. This year he will teach Introduction to German Literature — 19th century — and Elementary German I. Professor Mark McCulloh is now the JYA coordinator in Marburg. Stott said the years in Germany were a unique teaching experience. “Directing JYA in Marburg and teaching at Davidson are two different ballgames. The JYA experience is more intense and concentrated. There’s more to distract [students] here,” he said. At Marburg, Stott taught a class on German civilization and held a seminar on the German philosopher Nietzsche, which he particularly enjoyed. “It was one of the most enjoyable teaching and learning experiences I’ve ever had,” he said. Stott graduated from Davidson in 1970 and feels that the character of the college has changed little. “Davidson has pretty much the same atmosphere of friendliness. One gets the same feeling walking around campus,” he said. Stott has an M.A. and Ph.D. from Northwestern and an M.T.S. from Emory University. He has worked as a copy editor for the John Knox Press and as a freelance translator for various theological presses. Stott also taught evening German classes at Emory. His hobbies include swimming and playing the piano.

Professors Hart And Freitag

By SHANE MEEKS

Professor Thomas Hart is a new member of the Economics department. Hart came to Davidson because of its size and academic reputation. Hart earned his B.A. from American University in 1970, his M.A. from Duke in 1982, and is now completing his Ph.D. at Duke. Before coming to Davidson, Hart taught part-time at American University. He also worked in the forestry service at Duke. Hart considers Davidson “the ideal school to be at.” He also said he enjoys the town because it reminds him of the town he grew up in. Hart, who is engaged to be married, enjoys bass fishing, fly fishing, and flying gliders.

New Professors: (Front) Thomas Hart, James Hollifield, Pamela DeLaura, James Bachman, Marianthe Colakis, Limone Collins, Richard Neidinger, Douglas Scott, David Martin. (Rear) Peter Corrigan, John Bopp Jr., Ruth Freitag, Frank Albinder, Trent Foley.Ruth Frietag

Professor Ruth Frietag begins her first year in the Chemistry department this fall. Frietag has been particularly impressed with the level of the students she has met and with the responsibilities Davidson places on its students. She presently teaches a three-term course in experimental methods. The course has never had a professor to teach it throughout the whole year. Frietag said she wants to use this opportunity to integrate the course more than was possible in the past. She would also like to set up her own research program in the near future. Outside of the lab, Frietag, who plans to marry soon, enjoys photography, clogging, folk music, hiking, cross-country skiing, and her two dogs. She obtained her B.S. degree in chemistry from Bucknell, and her Ph.D. in Inorganic Chemistry from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Frietag completed three semesters of graduate school work as a teaching assistant while at Chapel Hill.

Professors Foley And DeLaura

By CHANDAN SINHA

“It’s really incredible. I’ve never seen an Honor System of this kind working so well anywhere. It is a model program,” new art Professor Pamela DeLaura said. She finds Davidson a refreshing change. According to DeLaura, the various departments are well-integrated and there is a great deal of exchange of information among them. DeLaura feels that the warmth of the people makes Davidson unique. “People from passing cars wave at you.” Originally from Erie, Pa., DeLaura majored in fine arts at Buffalo State College and got her M.A. in Print Making from the Tyler School of Art at Temple University. Attracted by its “strong” art faculty and high academic standards, DeLaura came to Davidson via the College Art Convention. Though she finds her students receptive and industrious, she said, “they appear to be more worried about their grades than art. They seem to be nervous when they walk into a studio class.” Apart from her work and teaching, DeLaura finds time to pursue many interests. She enjoys reading, and considers J.D. Salinger and Flannery O’Connor her favorite authors. She is interested in Mexican Retablos and in the study of family relationships, which she says is the motivating factor in her work. In February she plans to give an exhibition of her works in the Chamber Art Gallery.

Professor Trent Foley

Professor Trent Foley, the latest addition to the Religion Department, has a variety of interests, including computer mathematics, bridge, and simply “wasting time.” Foley has a B.A. in Mathematics from Kalamazoo College in Michigan. His change in interests from mathematics to religion occurred in England, where he spent his junior year studying computer mathematics at Reading University. He realized he did not particularly enjoy concentrating on mathematics. However, he did enjoy visiting cathedrals. After earning his B.A., he joined the University of Chicago and earned his Ph.D. in the History of Christianity from the Divinity School. He likes Davidson very much and likes the students even more. “They are very bright and receptive and even interested,” he said. Foley is particularly impressed by the Honor Code which, he said, makes for an “open, trustful atmosphere” not only on campus but also in the town of Davidson. Come Christmas there will be a new voice among Davidson’s choral singers; singing is one of Foley’s favorite interests.