Friday, September 21, 1984 / The Davidsonian

The Right Stuff Tells NASA History With Wit

By MATT MORRIS

The Right Stuff smashes into Love Auditorium on Friday, and Hallelujah! This critically acclaimed, commercially disastrous movie may finally get
the attention it deserves on the college campus scene. Let’s hope so. A decidedly eccentric, high-spirited history of the U.S.
space program, The Right Stuff contains too much wit, insight, and just plain old pure cinema to be ignored, and
deserves the attention of every wide-eyed Davidson moviegoer.

In its precise retelling of the NASA story, The Right Stuff may have turned away audiences because of its “history
book” nature. What we watch on the screen could make for a great independent study, but more importantly, the movie
is truly enjoyable thanks to the warm humanity injected into each character by wiz-kid director Phillip Kaufman. Yes, there are
space scenes, but the film is more concerned with the domestic terrors that can be incurred by a virtuous young
lad seeking “The Right Stuff.” It’s a “people-movie,” centering on conflicting relationships and less-than-monumental everyday problems. Perhaps because of this,
the film depends a great deal on the performers’ ability to suspend disbelief, and headed by playwright Sam Shepard plus
a cast of talented newcomers, this is no problem.

At the onset of The Right Stuff, we are given a clue as to where the film is heading. Against
a 20th-century wild West backdrop, filled with stallions, airplanes, and “men who are men,” Kaufman focuses on John Ford-style themes
of virtue, men and women in the 20th century, and the U.S. itself and its values — good and bad.
The original right stuffer Chuck Yeager (Shepard) trots into town on horseback, rides over a ridge, and discovers a sound-barrier-breaking
airplane. There it lies — Progress — and Yeager, ever willing to hold his “toughest guy in town” title, gets
off one horse and climbs on the new iron one. He must prove his stuff is right. Of course, Chuck
Yeager does possess “the right stuff,” as he becomes the first human to break the sound barrier. From here the
movie literally takes off, following the careers of each new generation of modern cowboys — John Glenn, Alan Shepard, Gordon
Cooper, and the rest as they stand up to greater and greater challenges, reaching farther and farther into space.

In spite of that rather patriotic synopsis, it may surprise you to find that one of the nice things about
The Right Stuff remains its willingness to take chances. Kaufman isn’t afraid to show the wrong stuff — bureaucracy, imperfect
astronauts, and offensive newsmen clutter the frame at every turn. Neither does he run away from the obvious, not always
pleasant, personal troubles an astronaut may face. Interestingly, the wives of the spacemen are ultimately as affecting as characters as
the astronauts themselves, and at times their ability to sacrifice appears even more courageous than many of the astronauts’ jaunts
towards the outer limits.

With his rugged good looks, Sam Shepard makes an interesting Yeager; moody and internal, he is a kind of James
Dean space jockey. Other performances sparkle and convince — as John Glenn, newcomer Ed Harris possesses a good-guy spirit we
always knew the original had, and Scott Glenn gives us a hilariously confused Alan Shepard wandering around NASA training labs
holding a painful catheter, searching for a lost machismo. Dennis Quaid gives the finest performance of his highly varied career
as the “What? Me worry?” Gordon Cooper, a child-man who, when he was a toddler, probably wanted to be an
astronaut. Now, to the surprise of everyone (including himself), becomes just that. A highlight of all the performances in The
Right Stuff 3-D ensemble would require...An entire issue of Davidsonian type space. At any rate, there’s nary an uninspired performance
on the celluloid. And of course, Phillip Kaufman's direction — he has constructed a cowboy space-opera that perfectly captures, at
times even heightens, the sardonic, yet flag-waving tone of Thomas Wolfe’s best-seller. Heavily laden with visual symbolism, fast-paced editing, and
some of the most harrowing lift-off sequences you’ve ever seen, Kaufmann always keeps the viewer guessing. One moment we watch
a 1940’s mock-up newsreel, the next a bit of Lyndon Johnson slapstick, and this is followed by a majestic peek
into outer space. The movie has a quirky, just plain weird structure, but never loses touch with the characters and
where they are, or are attempting to be, in the universe.

There are problems. Sometimes the symbolism is a bit overt. The film could have done without “the man in the
black suit,” who visits recently widowed wives of the astronauts, but so much of the visual language speaks so well,
particularly in the final hour, that one really can't complain. Perhaps The Right Stuff's nicest visual touch, and one which
immediately ties the film together, occurs each time a new astronaut views outer space from his tin can in the
sky for the first time. Rather than dazzling us with far-out space scenes, the camera centers on an even more
jubilant special effect — the astronaut’s face as he views with surprise, suspicion, and above all, wonder, the final and
largest frontier.

By STEVE MANK

Let’s Active’s new L.P. Cypress could well be the best album of 1984. Here, for perhaps the first time, is
a collection that offers songwriting, musicianship, and production which leaves nothing to be desired. Here is an album that is
wonderful for even the casual listener to hear from beginning to end. The album starts with distant, meandering guitar chords
giving way to a full-force attack of rhythm section, vocals, acoustic and electric guitars all on a single beat. With
each beat, producer/songwriter/lead vocalist/keyboardist/guitarist (dare I say whiz kid) Mitch Easter adds another surprise. The atmosphere is lush, but somehow
it maintains that garage band sound with which the group has always identified. In spite of all the well-rehearsed passages
and perfect cues, there is a spunk, a spontaneity which few albums have. Just as “Ring True” fades out and
it is time to listen to side two, the song returns momentarily for one of the sloppiest musical refrains since
John Lennon complained of blistered fingers sixteen years ago.

One thing peculiar about Cypress that you will not find in the albums of Let’s Active’s “Southern Revolution” compatriots is
the synthesizer. Rather than run away from the technology or be guilty of talentless overkill, Easter uses the synthesizer sparingly
and as a background instrument. The only synthesizer number, “Gravel Truck,” is more of an instrumental introduction in the vein
of Eddie Van Halen's work. The L.P. was a very long time in the making. The band recorded all summer
long to achieve what most bands do in a matter of weeks. The problem was that Afoot, last year’s EP,
though critically acclaimed, was not so warmly embraced. The band worked extra hard to win the public over this time.
Fortunately, the extra effort was worth it.

Let’s Active has the unusual gift of being fronted by one of the most important producers in pop music today
(Easter and later co-producer Don Dixon are responsible for the sound of all R.E.M. on vinyl today). This is important
because not only does each track's sound differ musically, but the production is different as well. Faye Hunter's bass on
“Waters Part” sounds completely different from her bass on “Prey;” while Sara Romweber's snare is loud on “Easy Does,” it
is a tambourine that holds the percussive weight on “Flags for Everything.” Such attention to detail is rare indeed. Speaking
of bass and drums, Easter has mixed his two cohorts higher on this disc than the last, giving it a
more “eighties” sound that will hopefully turn more ears in their direction.

There is not a track on here that is not excellent. From the harmonica on “Prey” to the exciting commercialism
of “Blue Line,” Easter has included hooks aplenty. If Cypress does not make Let's Active, they may as well hang
it up, because they will be hard-pressed to make an album as musically satisfying as this.
