14 Friday, January 20, 1984 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Ann Meador, Editor
David Resnik, Executive Editor
Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor
John Gathings, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

Fair Compromise

We endorse the Professional Affairs Committee’s latest student-faculty proposal for two reasons: it offers a practical and meaningful solution to an ongoing problem, and it has been approved by the PAC, Administration, and SGA.

First, the new form contains a prose section and a short answer section. It represents a compromise between the pure prose form the faculty proposed last spring and the quantitative ICES forms used in past years. Although the forms themselves will not be as easy to tabulate as the ICES forms, the PAC has proposed a change in evaluation procedures that will lighten the Administration’s workload: professors would be evaluated every few years instead of once a term. The PAC’s proposal would provide the Administration with comprehensive and accessible data for evaluating faculty.

Second, the PAC, Administration, and SGA seem to have finally agreed on an evaluation procedure. After a year of proposals, counter-proposals, arguments, and objections, we welcome decisive action. The system as proposed is not perfect, but at least it would work. If the faculty votes down or substantially alters this proposal, then the College may spend another year looking for a new system.

Interdisciplinary Discussion

Not too many people have heard about the Faculty Research Group, but it’s time they do. The group offers professors a chance to present their papers to other professors for comments and criticism. It allows professors to improve papers they want to publish, and it also gives them the opportunity to practice lectures. More important, the group also gives professors a chance to interact with professors in other disciplines. This interdisciplinary exchange represents the essence of the liberal arts education. It is easy for professors to become overspecialized; the Faculty Research Group helps them maintain a proper perspective.

Students should follow the faculty’s example and take note of interdisciplinary exchange. With such an emphasis on job placement and specialization these days, it’s easy to forget that we attend a small liberal arts college that emphasizes interdisciplinary study. Davidson’s area requirements require students to take courses in a wide variety of disciplines. However, in order truly to benefit from these courses, students must be willing to participate in interdisciplinary discussion outside the classroom.

Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor

Published Fridays during the college year except during examination and holiday periods by the students of Davidson College. Correspondence to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone: 892-2000, Ext. 327. Offices on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: David McGee, Assistant News Editor; Roxanna Guilford, Rand Hartsell, Bob Loper, Wayne Magruder, Frances Palmer, John Ruppenthal, Tom Schilling, Julie Sternal, Lisa Thomas, David Van Pelt, Elizabeth White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Ida Phillips, Assistant Arts and Entertainment Editor; Miguel Abreu, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, MattMorris, Tim Waples
Sports Staff: Scott Huie, Assistant Sports Editor; Boyd Blackburn, Kerry Brown, Steve Byers, Hunter Gourley
Photography Staff: Carroll Overton, Assistant Photography Editor; Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael Dent, Caryl Dawson, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Laura McGee, Anderson Scott, Mike Snell, Bruce von Stein
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey
Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt
Production Staff: Kevin Horan
Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Debby Williams
Copy Editing: Christine Jackson
Circulation: David McCurry, Manager

Letters

Voyeurism
To the Editor:
“Rear Window” lives at Davidson College! The residents of Cannon dorm must unite in a defensive and offensive counterattack in the War of Voyeurism initiated by Sentelle dorm. Yes, we have seen it with our own eyes. At least one resident of Sentelle (ostensibly a scholar and an athlete) possesses the ultimate weapon — binoculars. Ladies of Cannon, unite, and with one accord, close your blinds and focus your binoculars, telephoto lenses, and naked eyes upon the peeping toms of Davidson. Voyeurism is a two-way street.
Revengefully yours,
Nancy Rosselot
Pam Strader

Monitor?
To the Editor:
What is this?!! The Christian Science Monitor?!
Jeff Holland

Dergnist mre
Please, be advised that the present government of Argentina is not “Peronist” as you stated in your issue of January 13, 1984 (page 2). Actually, the Peronist Party lost the elections of October 30, 1983. The winner of those elections was the Radical Party.
J.A. Hernandez-Chiroldes

Football
To the Editor:
Having served as student manager for the 1983 Davidson football team, I speak from experience in refuting T. Herbert Dimmock’s unfounded statements in the January 13 Davidsonian. Dimmock apparently does not understand the purpose of Davidson athletics.

First, I for one will not be “ridiculed into silence” for advocating “so-called preferential treatment of athletes.” In fact, unlike at most other schools, Davidson athletes are given absolutely no preferential treatment in the classroom. All athletes enrolled in science and language courses are expected to attend scheduled laboratory sessions, even if they must miss practice or athletic contests. Athletes must turn in papers and take tests at the same times as their fellow classmates. Professors at Davidson give no special grading or assistance to those athletes who must miss classes in order to participate in away games. By virtue that the Davidson student-athlete is expected to perform as well in the classroom as he does on the field, he faces a unique challenge unparalleled by the other Southern schools.

Second, to my knowledge, Davidson has never in its history advocated varsity sports as a “priority item.” Student-athletes not performing well academically do not remain at Davidson for very long. The athletic staff supports varsity sports solely as a means to enhance the overall purpose for a student’s attending Davidson. Likewise, the school would have to spend a far greater amount of funds on athletics, especially football, than they have ever previously spent to attain competition with the expenditures of rival schools.

As Dimmock illustrates, Davidson students, upon graduation “all remember people and community as more important” than the success of varsity sports teams. Because of this precisely accurate fact, Davidson emphasizes athletics only as a means for the Davidson community to excel — physically, socially, and academically.