Friday, October 26, 1984 / The Davidsonian 13

OPINIONS

Open Hearing Reveals Council’s Shortcomings

David McGee

Last week’s open honor hearing did not end with the acquittal of sophomore Jeff Kusch. Some fundamental questions remain that concern Honor Council procedure and how Dean of Students Will Terry and the student solicitors justified signing charges against Kusch. Why did the Council hear a case four months after the alleged violation occurred? Should the case have ever come to a hearing in the first place? Why did the defense advisors and student solicitors rely so much on hearsay evidence to support their cases? And, probably the most pertinent, what changes are needed in the procedure the Council follows in preparing for and hearing a case?

I have answers to these questions, but they are by no means the only ones. Fortunately, I sense an openness among Dean Terry and the Honor Council to suggestions or complaints from those in the community. Suggestions and complaints in this case only become valid when they are organized, written, and presented to the authorities who can take suitable action, namely the Student Conduct Council, which sets policy for the Honor Council. Before addressing these questions though, I want to explore how the Honor Council conducts its business, which last week's hearing revealed, and what I think the Council's relationship to the community ought to be.

Most would agree that open challenges to the Honor Council's authority can improve how the Council operates among its constituency. I assert, and few would disagree, that the reason why anyone has raised questions about the Honor Council rests on the fact that the accused student in last week’s hearing chose to have an open hearing. Should the case have ever come to a hearing in the first place? And, probably the most pertinent, what changes are needed in the procedure the Council follows in preparing for and hearing a case?

Had the hearing been closed to the public, and assuming the Council would have reached the same verdict (a speculative assumption, I might add), the only thing we would have heard about the hearing would have been a short announcement in The Davidsonian from the Dean’s office stating something similar to: “The Honor Council heard one plagiarism case last term. The student was found innocent.” No one would have asked any questions. This observation supports an argument for having open honor hearings. In theory, as the College's Code of Disciplinary Procedure states, all hearings are open; the accused has a right to a closed hearing. However, since the last open hearing before last week was held in February 1982, anyone who believes that honor hearings are open in practice would also believe that the sun always shines.

There exists, I think, one important objection to having open hearings. According to Dean Terry, a high percentage of those who leave Davidson as a result of an honor violation complete their education here after their sanction is over. How would open hearings affect the decision of banished students to return to Davidson, if the events of a student’s hearing would be public knowledge? This objection ultimately questions how the community here would deal with information it would gain from open honor hearings. Gossip, unfavorable publicity, or other such injury to reputation might result from open honor hearings. Since the Council expects everyone to take the Honor Code seriously, I believe students would view the outcomes of honor hearings in a mature way, without vengeance. Those who disagree with this assertion may be challenging, in the same breath, whether Davidson should have an honor code at all. Why should Davidson have an honor code if no one would respect, with a mature acceptance, the results of the honor code’s enforcement?

Doubtless, the open hearing benefited the honor system as a whole because it allowed the community to witness what it usually only hears about second hand. The Honor Council increased its credibility by showing that it, in general, pursues cases fairly within the limits of its granted powers. If any need to change the way the Council hears and decides cases exists, then that change must take place within the Code of Disciplinary Procedure. It would not be fair to generalize this hearing as representative of all hearings, but I...Feel that problems exist in how the solicitors and the Dean bring charges against a student. Dean Terry and the student solicitors, seniors Mike Mauzé, Mark Batten, and Mike Tantillo, were responsible for charging Jeff Kusch with plagiarism. Their duty calls for them to investigate complaints from professors of possible honor violations, and in this case, the solicitors and the Dean believed enough evidence existed to hold a hearing. I think the solicitors violated the spirit of Kusch’s rights as a student when they questioned him without his defense advisors present before they had signed charges against him. The solicitors felt that not to file charges against Kusch would have judged him innocent. This decision of guilt or innocence, they believed, belonged to the Honor Council. Some may interpret this decision as a fair one, but I believe it violated the notion of presumed innocence. If the solicitors and the Dean decide to sign charges against a student, then they ought to have a valid basis for the charges, not just promising speculation. The solicitors and the Dean signed the charges without knowing whether or not Kusch could produce a rough draft of his paper, which the defense advisors later introduced as evidence to support Kusch's innocence.

What do I mean by a valid basis? In this case, unless the solicitors could cite a specific source that the accused plagiarized (which they did not do), then there was no reason to have a hearing. What evidence did the solicitors have? They based their case almost solely on the opinions of English Professor John Engell and Economics Professor Clark Ross, who both doubted whether Kusch could have written the paper he turned in. No matter how reputable the professors’ statements, the Council could only accept Engell’s testimony and Ross’s testimony (via a letter he wrote which Mauzé paraphrased) as opinion. Presenting professional opinion as evidence has a weakness because the defense can usually find opposite opinions. Ross's opinion that only a top economics student could have written the paper conflicted with Economics Professor Peter Hess's opinion, introduced by defense advisor Chris Blake, that the paper was a poor treatment of economic theory. Engell’s claim that Kusch plagiarized the paper was not supported by Venturelli, who testified that he doubted that Kusch plagiarized the paper. Of course, finding a specific source that the accused had plagiarized may have been an overwhelming burden for the solicitors. But without evidence that had substance beyond speculative opinion, there existed little reason to have a hearing.

The Dean's and the solicitors’ job requires subjective evaluation of the evidence they find, and often the decision to have a hearing or not becomes a careful choice. It appears in this case that the Dean and the solicitors justified signing charges thinking, “Maybe he’s guilty; let's have a hearing and find out.” I offer the following suggestions to improve our justice system on campus. Introducing more openness into the Honor Council's procedure would enhance both the accountability of the Council and the Dean and the opportunity for constructive criticism of the entire process. Not only should the community know what decisions the Council makes, but also the reasons for those decisions. The Dean and the solicitors should have a maximum 30-day period, without exception, to sign charges resulting from a complaint that a student has allegedly committed an honor violation. The use of hearsay evidence (the presentation of what someone else has said as evidence) should be curtailed or not even allowed in honor hearings because of its speculative nature and the impossibility of cross-examining such evidence.

In addition, they made a serious error in waiting three months to sign charges against Kusch. The hearing was delayed another four weeks at the request of the defense, thus putting a total of four months' time between Sociology Professor Peter Venturelli’s report of a potential violation and the official charge. The Code of Disciplinary Procedure allows for a maximum of 10 days for charges to be signed after a complaint, but the Dean may include vacations or school breaks in the period allowed to sign charges of an honor violation. Though they had every right to do so, the delay was unnecessary; no significant evidence emerged during the summer months. Last week's open hearing has uncovered a shroud of mystery about the Honor Council that has for a long time silenced its shortcomings and problems. I urge everyone to pursue in a constructive manner what they think should be changed about the Honor Council. We can only achieve a more perfect system of justice if we aspire to have one.

McGee is a senior economics major and is Executive Editor of The Davidsonian.