Friday, March 16, 1984 / The Davidsonian 5

Kuykendall Hopes To Be An ‘Enabler’

Editor's note: Davidsonian editors Ross Holt and David McGee interviewed President-elect Kuykendall on Saturday, February 25. Here we present edited portions of that interview.

I guess I feel very lucky, or very unlucky, as if I’ve had the fickle finger of fate or fortune or providence placed on me. The process, from my perspective, was one which went forward, at times, with excruciating slowness. I wanted to know, and didn’t know. I understand what the group was going through from things that they’ve said to me, but I’m aware of the pains that they took in moving through this process responsibly. There have been times when this was personally very frustrating, wondering what your life was going to be like next month, in the next six months, or a year from now.

The Office Of President

Let me talk about the office first and just a general perception that I have. I look upon it as a key to the enabling of other people to do what they ought to be doing in an institution like Davidson; enabling the faculty to teach and to do their scholarly work in an environment which is conducive to that, and enabling students to find what they need within the context of what Davidson understands its commission to be as a liberal arts institution. I may be naive and I may stand to be corrected by some of my teachers in this place — students, faculty, and others — but I think this involves an effort on my part to be in touch with all that is going on. The amazing thing to me throughout the search process has been the exposure to things that are happening within Davidson of which I had no awareness. They’re good things, really super things. I look back on my early interviews with the search committee, and think of some of my grandiose ideas for what Davidson ought to be and visions that I had for Davidson in a lot of areas, and realize that many of them are things which Davidson has already begun to implement. I really can’t talk at this early date of particular programs or activities which Davidson has not undertaken that I think Davidson should undertake. I can talk about some things that Davidson has obviously made a beginning on which I would like to nurture and foster and to see flourish. I am aware of the various programs of international education. I know about, from conversations and in written pieces that I have seen, the way in which some of these programs are undertaken on a kind of a shoestring basis, an ad hoc basis, and I'd like to see these things systematized so that you can have a somewhat predictable program. Another area in which Davidson has surely begun, and probably is a step ahead of other liberal arts institutions, is the area of computer literacy. As one who is in this area illiterate, I would like to continue to foster that, [making] opportunities available for faculty — and I include myself in that — to gain some of the skills that many students nowadays are coming into college with, in terms of the use of computers. Those sorts of things I see as areas of potential expansion where the good beginning has been made and to which somebody is already sensitive.

Church-College Relations

One area of particular interest to me which has emerged as a point of concern — and in rare instances controversy — on the part of many people in the Davidson family is the matter of the way in which Davidson relates to the Presbyterian church in particular, and the Christian tradition in general, and the way in which those relationships are articulated in the day-to-day life of the institution. This is an area in which I have had probably more exposure than in many of the other things I’m going to be asked to do here, but it’s an area in which I feel I have a few answers. Davidson is a very distinctive place in this regard. Certainly it has been a natural leader within the Presbyterian Church of the United States, and the former Southern Presbyterian Church. From my brief contact with the spectrum of the church colleges in the new denomination, it strikes me that Davidson is in a very significant position. Davidson was a special leader among the [approximately] twenty colleges in the Southern Church, and Davidson will provide the same sort of leadership in the [seventy or so] colleges in the new denomination. This is because of its unparalleled excellence in academic things, and because of a very sensitive, [though] sometimes troubled, relationship with the church. I don’t want [the church to have] a dogmatic involvement in the life of Davidson. What I want is an atmosphere which may need to be articulated through structures, through offices, through personalities, but an atmosphere which acknowledges in every way it can that the life of the mind is something which is God-given. I think Davidson already does this in some respects. The [college chaplain’s office] is representative of the fact that this kind of presence is perceived as a necessary or helpful component. The fact that there is a department of religion is, again, representative of the fact that we perceive the life of the mind to include serious consideration of things of the spirit in an intellectual way. I think another [very obvious thing] we do takes place in the sorts of people who are chosen to be the President-elect.W. Kuykendall Trustees of the Institution. You notice, if you look at a list of the members of the board of Trustees, a sprinkling of Presbyterian ministers. You recognize also that one of the requirements for membership on the board of Trustees is that the person be involved in the life of some Christian community. A Trustee doesn’t have to be a Presbyterian; they just need to be active in some Christian church. And I think that’s something which is very important. Another piece of this, which has been a matter of controversy within the Davidson community in the last decade, is the selection of members of the faculty. The present Constitution expects that members of the faculty will at least be able to acknowledge the value of Davidson’s church-relatedness. It doesn’t require them to be Christians; it doesn’t require them to be Presbyterians; and that’s a historical metamorphosis that’s taken place. It used to be that in order to be installed as a full professor at Davidson, you had to be a member of the Presbyterian Church, and you had to take an oath of office which had about it some fairly sophisticated theological components. But that’s not true anymore, which is appropriate. At the same time, Davidson has a right to expect the acknowledgment of its purpose as a church-related school on the part of the faculty. All of these things, I think, come together to establish a backdrop in which an effective relationship with the Christian community, and the Christian church, can take place. Maybe the other things are secondary. Maybe the way that you organize, maybe whether you have a chaplain and vespers—I don’t want to be heard as advocating a return to that at all—but maybe those things are kind of superficial. The important things are the underlying components which identify the nature of church-relatedness. 

My recent experience over the last two or three years in dealing with the leadership of Auburn and trying to bring some good out of a very difficult administrative situation there has made me aware of the fact that you don’t talk about a university or a college as though it were a military unit, or as though it were an athletic team. It is a very distinctive institution with its own sets of values and its own sets of commitments and activities. One needs to take it at face value and not try to transform it into any one of those other things, but to let it be what it is, and, in the most positive way that one can, to demand the larger society acknowledge that too. I think Davidson, as an institution, will serve the Presbyterian Church most effectively when Davidson acknowledges its commitment to the Church, when Davidson acknowledges the Church’s interest in it, when Davidson acknowledges that it can’t be the Church—and when the Church, on the contrary, does the same thing about Davidson.

Funding
Another piece of the job and of Davidson’s future, which is of great concern to me, is the business of making the funds available to Davidson to do what it needs to do. I think, in this regard as in so many others, Dr. Spencer was a person whose shoes are unfillable. At the same time, I hear from Trustees who are knowledgeable about such matters, that the sort of accomplishments Dr. Spencer made in the 1987 program and other fundraising activities are things which are going to have to be multiplied between now and the year 2000 to keep Davidson where it is. They've talked of endowments of astronomical figures, and I’m going to have to do some learning in that area. It is my hope and my intention that this sort of thing will not become a kind of preoccupation in my life that will make me turn around six years, eight years, ten years hence, and say, “Gee, I’ve been a fundraiser for this period of time, not a teacher, not a scholar, not an administrator, not a theologian but I’ve just been out raising money.” I really don’t want that for myself. I’d want, though, to do that job effectively, because I think that’s crucial to what Davidson is going to be in the year 2000.

The Social System
The theory, at least, within the social groupings here is far more compatible, to my understanding of humane behavior, than what we had before. I don’t want to overdraw the picture from prior days, but my sense of the fraternity system then is one which has extreme pluses and equally extreme minuses. So, I think, at least in theory, it was a very courageous thing President Spencer and others did, however many years ago, maybe ten, when this system was altered as it has been. And I guess my concern would be that the theory and practice match up a little better than they seem to have, from what I’ve been told.

Experience
I think my experience at Auburn and as a teacher is something which has really cemented my commitment to a vocation in higher education. My personal pilgrimage, in terms of training and such, has pointed me in the direction of working in a college or university, and Auburn in that sense, was a kind of a testing and training ground. It has reinforced my sense of commitment to students and my feeling, which may erode with the coming of age, but my feeling that I do have a certain understanding of what’s going on in the college experience for various students and can not only identify with it, but can stand by and be supportive.