Friday, September 21, 1984 / The Davidsonian 5

General Promotes ‘High Frontier’ Defense System

By DAVID McGEE

Lieutenant General Daniel O. Graham, a retired three-star general, spoke on campus Wednesday on what he calls a “high frontier” defense system. The system he has researched through his company, High Frontier Inc., would shoot down Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBM) launched against the United States.

“It is a proposition that we can use advanced U.S. technology to knock down ICBMs,” Graham said. The concept, he said, challenges the doctrine nuclear strategists have held for over 20 years, the doctrine of Mutual Assured Destruction (MAD).

Graham denounced the doctrine, calling it dangerous, provocative, and displacing. “The nation has mandated the vulnerability of its own people. The only way the United States can survive a nuclear exchange is if the U.S. and the Soviets have the same capability to slaughter each other and the horror of that.”

Once an ICBM is launched, Graham said, the only option is to retaliate, “otherwise, there is nothing we can do,” he said.

Graham said his proposed satellite-based defense system would be deployed by the space shuttle. Through advanced targeting mechanisms, the system would use non-nuclear missiles to destroy ICBMs. According to Graham, the system would eliminate 95 percent of a nuclear strike. “The remaining five percent would not annihilate the U.S.,” he said.

The current MAD strategy, Graham said, “hurts the American conscience because it is based on how many Russians we can slaughter. It is contrary to American ethics.”

The audience spent nearly an hour questioning and challenging Graham’s proposal. One student asked about the system’s economic feasibility. Graham said the U.S. could manufacture and deploy the system for $30 billion in 10 years.

“You would get it free because you would save money on things you wouldn’t have to spend for,” he said.

“How much would you pay to survive?” Graham added that the system, once deployed, would encourage arms control and reduction.

The U.S. can deal with the Soviets in three ways, Graham said. “One is to try to jaw-bone them out of the missiles, or increase our own weaponry, or deploy high frontier — this is the proper answer... It’s a proposition whose time has come.”

Members of the audience challenged Graham's projections extensively, particularly whether or not the U.S. could sustain an attack of 5 percent of the Soviet’s nuclear arsenal or whether the Soviets would resort to conventional forces in Europe as a result of a U.S. defensive advantage, and whether or not the possession of defensive capability might encourage offensive use of nuclear weapons.

Several students pointed out that cruise missiles, which travel along the earth’s surface, could not be destroyed from space. Graham said such weapons would have to be dealt with in another way; his system would counter mainly ICBMs.

Graham conducted an opinion poll in California that showed 82.3 percent of those polled supported a space-based defense system, while 17.7 percent opposed it. A national poll revealed similar results.

The result of an informal poll among the audience revealed about half favored the system and half did not.

Graham’s talk was sponsored by the College Republicans. Graham is a graduate of West Point and the U.S. Army War College, a former member of the U.S. Security Council, former Director of Military Intelligence, and former second in command of the Central Intelligence Agency. He is the author of two books: New Strategy for the West and Shall America be Defended: Salt II and Beyond.

Sociology Department To Seek Chairman

By TED WILSON

The Sociology and Anthropology department is searching for a new chairman to replace Professor Robert Ruth, who held the position for the past five years. Ruth served a two-year term as acting chairman prior to his full chairmanship and is still a member of the department's staff.

Vice-President of Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty T.C. Price Zimmerman now serves as acting chairman. “We have announced a search for an anthropologist to chair the department beginning next fall,” he said.

He said the professor will “increase the anthropology component in the department,” which now offers primarily sociology courses. The addition of anthropology classes will make sociology and anthropology “an extremely interesting major,” he said. “The design of the curriculum will be left up to the department and the new chairman,” he added.

Although Zimmermann is not teaching any sociology or anthropology courses this year, the new department head will instruct classes.

According to sociology Professor Janet Grigsby, the chairmanship “is not a position someone holds forever.” She said the change has caused “no problems with classes and registration.”

CAREERS and PROFESSIONAL GRADUATE PROGRAMS

GOVERNMENT & INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS

An informal discussion with representatives of both the

John F. Kennedy School of Government Public Policy Program at HARVARD UNIVERSITY & Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at PRINCETON UNIVERSITY

Date: Mon., Nov. 12 Time: 9:30-10:30 & 10:30-11:30 groups Place: Your Career Placement Center

All years, all majors welcome. For additional information, please contact your school's Career Development/Placement Office.