10 Friday, May 11, 1984 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Managing Editor
Ross Holt, Editor
Kevin Horan, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager
Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor
Randy Stroud, Photography Editor

The Powers That Be

Before the first R.A.C.E. forum, about all that could be said about racial tensions on campus is that they were
suppressed. In past weeks we have been more than pleased to provide a forum in the “Opinions” section of The
Davidsonian for such discussion. The Trustees, alumni, faculty, and administrators have gotten wind of student sentiment, and we feel race
relations will improve provided the desire for changes keeps its present momentum.

The history of Davidson College has shown that what the various powers that be here — namely the president, the
faculty, and the Trustees — want, they get. Self-selection, co-education, foreign studies programs are several examples. It follows, then, that
the goals of Project ’87 — which we regard as desirable — will come to fruition only if there exists
a strong, grassroots commitment to turn the Project’s goals into reality. This is not to say Project ’87 can be
wished into existence; doubtless bringing more black students and professors here will require much energy on the part of the
college. Clearly the college must decide if it ought to accomplish Project ’87. If so, then it can do so.

Young Republicans

It seems the Young Republicans in past weeks have attempted to express their views to the campus, and have consequently
made a nuisance of themselves. Their sponsorship of a campaign supporter of Senator Jesse Helms here Wednesday offended many students.
In the lobby of Chambers — probably the most conspicuous place on campus — the Helms representative distributed “smear” campaign
literature typical of Senator Helms. Student organizations have a right to sponsor such events, but organizations should not attempt to
“target” the entire campus. Scheduled meetings or speeches held in designated meeting places — like the 900 Room or Love
Auditorium — work best. Furthermore, participation in such political events should be voluntary. Helen Caldicott — known for her controversial
views — did not set up shop in the middle of Chambers when she visited here Monday. The Young Republicans’
activities this year have closely resembled the tactics used by Senator Helms’s campaign: blatant use of propaganda and innuendo. These
abuses of freedom of expression and assembly only serve to compromise the integrity of this right.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available
on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: David Van Pelt, Boyd Blackburn, Assistant News Editors. Roxanna Guilford, Rand Hartsell, Bob Loper, Frances Palmer, Tom Schilling,
Elizabeth White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Miguel Abreu, Brian Butler, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris

Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Assistant Sports Editor, Kerry Brown, Hunter Gourley, Patricia Hahn, Jean Webb

Photography Staff: Carroll Overton, Assistant Photography Editor, Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael Dent, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Rocky Kmiecik, Laura McGee, Anderson
Scott, Mike Snell, Bruce von Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Kevin Horan; Compositors: Anne Lambert, Lisa Leno, Rob Poot, Jorgia Rice, Frank Roberts, Debby Williams

Copy Editing: Christine Jackson

Circulation: David McCurry, Manager

LETTERS

To the Editor:

Throughout the past three to four months this campus has been set on fire with concern over the problem of
racism. Due to various circumstances many attitudes and deeply held emotions have been heard that would ordinarily neverhad been spoken
above a whisper. For this opening of the lines of communication, for the surfacing of serious societal problems, I am
thankful. The campus is thankful for those members of the R.A.C.E. (Racial Attitudes Concerning Everyone) committee who have been active
in this struggle to address the problem of racism: Lynn Mitchie, Courtney Hall, Rod Holman, Charlies Wiley, Jane Thompson, Denise
Gyauch, Sayres Rudy, Paula Miller, Chad Magnuson, and next year’s R.A.C.E. leader Andrew Yon. There are many students, faculty, and
staff who gave many hours of hard work to aid in this noble effort: Thanks to all.

As we now reach the end of the year I see a campus torn with strife, I sense an attitude
of hostility. If such an atmosphere were the sole product of the questioning of an evil system, then it would
be understandable. For once an existing system (whether it be an institution or a system of beliefs) is put into
question, automatically it resists change — thus an inevitable conflict will ensue. Given that this situation is currently occurring at
Davidson, I am not surprised, nor do I wish to direct my comments towards such a phenomenon. What does concern
me, however, are the attitudes of the student body, particularly those who would like to see Davidson improve and may
even be working towards such a goal. Time and time again I have spoken with students on this campus who
are concerned about the problem of racism, yet they have allowed themselves to be filled with hatred, resentment, and hostility.
It is this unproductive force within productive individuals which I hope to address.

I would like to call the campus’ attention to the words of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. I have taken
Dr. King’s six basic points in his philosophy of nonviolence in hopes that the Davidson campus would take it to
heart in their struggle for justice. (Keep in mind that this struggle is a struggle that seeks to change attitudes,
perspectives, and other intangible elements of society.) Taken from his book "Stride Toward Freedom," here are Dr. King’s six points
concerning nonviolent resistance:

1. It should be an active force. An active nonviolent resistance to evil.
2. We must not seek to “defeat or humiliate the opponent but to win his friendship and understanding.”
3. We must direct our efforts “against forces of evil rather than persons who happen to be doing the evil.”
4. “Willingness to accept suffering” for a just cause.

Petition Editor's note: This petition was circulated by various professors among faculty members and submitted as a letter to The
Davidsonian. Because of time limitations, not all faculty members were contacted.

To the Editors:

In response to the concerns raised by the Black Student Coalition, we the undersigned members of the Davidson College faculty
wish to express our belief that significantly increasing the number of black students, faculty, and administrators on the college campus
is a highly desirable and necessary step for Davidson to be truly an institution of distinction, one projecting a commitment
to progress in this area of national concern. We urge that the administration, faculty, and all students work towards this
goal in a meaningful, cooperative, and open spirit.

Ruth Ault
Robin Barnes
Cole Barton
Clark Bricker
H. Alden Bryan
Felix Carroll
Stephen Davis
Charles Dockery
C. Earl Edmonds
Hansford Epes
James Fredericksen
Ralph Gable
Gail Gibson
Janet Grigsby
Juan Hernandez-Chiroldez
Peter Hess
Frank Jacobus
R. David Kaylor
Thomas Kazee
Susan Keefe
John Kello
John Kelton
Peter Krentz
Cynthia Lewis
William Mahony
Robert Maydole
Mark McCulloh
Alexander McKelway
Alfred Mele
Randy Nelson
Louis Ortmayer
E. F. Patterson
Linda Pellecchia
Karl Plank
Lester Prince
J. Harris Proctor
C. E. Ratliff, Jr.
Dan D. Rhodes
Clark Ross
Robert Ruth
Brian Shaw
Homer Sutton
Jason Thompson
Mary Thornberry
Peter Venturelli
Hallam Walker
James Wooten
Lauren Yoder
Rosemary Zumwalt.
