Friday, September 28, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Drug Counselor Peery Makes First Campus Visit
By LEE WHITE

Drug Counselor Campbell Peery made his first visit to campus Tuesday night. He presented a drug awareness program first to interested upperclassmen, and then to freshmen at a mandatory meeting. He will be on campus every Tuesday night. Students can make appointments with him through the counselor’s office. He assures confidentiality for those who come to him for help with a drug problem.

Peery said he felt that his job is to meet student needs for drug counseling and education. He will develop ways to address these needs as he finds out exactly what they are, he said. Using concepts based on the 12 steps of Alcoholics Anonymous and Narcotics Anonymous, Peery plans to set up a program based on those ideas with a group as a built-in support system. He said he has seen the results of last spring's drug survey. Davidson seems to reflect the nation’s attitudes toward drug use, he said.

Peery’s presence on campus is part of an effort to combat drug use and abuse, according to the Dean’s office. In addition, Resident Advisors on campus have recently stated their policy on drug use. RAs must report drug use, but there exists no one set procedure for doing so. They may go to Housing Director Bill Bolding, Deans of Students Will Terry or Sue Ross, or Peery. RA Allison Moy said Peery will examine cases and determine if the problem is use, abuse, or addiction. RA Sarah Speed said many cases are “grey situations” and that a drug counselor is an excellent resource for RAs.

What the college wants, according to another RA, is someone to look at a particular situation and to determine if a problem exists. One RA said all the RAs take the problem of drug use and abuse “very seriously, far more so than in the past.” RA David Short said he was glad the Dean’s office has hired a counselor. He added that easy access to drug counseling is important for students.

Peery includes alcohol under the label “drugs.” He said he felt that alcohol and drug abuse cannot be separated. One reason drug and alcohol abuse are dealt with separately is that funding for treatment centers for alcohol abuse comes from liquor taxes, while funding for drug...

Peggy Pierotti

Brueggemann Looks At The Historical
By RICHARD CLOUDT

Asserting that the Bible can apply to our lives in more than a religious way, Staley Lecturer Walter Brueggemann examined the place of King David in biblical history in three lectures on campus last week. Brueggemann, father of senior Jim Brueggemann, examined the religious as well as political and social aspects of King David's life as portrayed in 1 and 2 Samuel. We have “held the Bible too close,” Brueggemann said. To understand it and why its various parts were written, one must study it slowly from a distance, he said. Behind the obvious plots and heroic figures portrayed in the Bible, Brueggemann said, there lie latent motives and unique characters.

Brueggemann interpreted the particular etymology from the original Hebrew to uncover ideas that he feels have relevance today. In David he finds not an idealistic ruler, but a human undergoing a painful and ambiguous life. The character Brueggemann unfolds in 1 Samuel could well be a contemporary political figure. He unfolded the development of a society from its origin as a tribe to its reorganization into a state, and finally, into the first biblical monarchy. Brueggemann extracted the social factors from the “memo type” writing in...

College To Hold President’s Inauguration
By TED WILSON

More than two thousand people, including students, faculty, staff, alumni and special guests, are expected to attend the inauguration of President John Kuykendall at Fall Convocation next weekend. The Oct. 5 event is “not an inauguration in the classic sense,” according to Rick Love, Assistant to the President and Director of Institutional Research. He emphasized that the ceremony is more of “a community, family event instead of one that focuses attention on the President alone.”

The inauguration will “enhance the feeling of unity,” according to Registrar Richard Burts. He added that Kuykendall wants the barbeque to symbolize the “breaking of bread” and felt it important that the community, college and guests enjoy a common meal. Love said the planning committee tried to “scale down the pomp of the ceremony while still maintaining the dignity of it.” Instead of inviting representatives from colleges and universities throughout the nation, the committee comprised a guest list limited to schools in North Carolina (such as Duke, Wake Forest and Chapel Hill), Presbyterian affiliated colleges and seminaries, Southern Conference schools, Princeton, and Yale, where Kuykendall studied, and Auburn, where he taught before coming to Davidson. Approximately one...Hundred representatives from these institutions will wear their academic regalia in the procession. Affiliates from the Presbyterian Church will also be present. Love said the committee wanted the represented institutions to have a special tie with Davidson. The Academic Procession will begin at 2:15 p.m. on the front campus. The senior class will participate in the procession—donning cap and gown for the first time at Davidson. The Convocation ceremony is scheduled to begin at 2:30 p.m. and will include the installation of Kuykendall. SGA President John Laughlin will greet the guests on behalf of the student body. Other guests on the platform will include President Emeritus Samuel Spencer and former Interim President Frontis Johnston. President Kuykendall will give the Convocation address. Music during the ceremony will be provided by the Davidson Brass Ensemble and the Concert Choir. Immediately following the ceremonies, which are expected to last until about 4 p.m., there will be an open reception on the front lawn. A complimentary barbecue supper for faculty, staff, students, and special guests follows at 6:30 p.m. (although serving lines will open earlier) on the Vail Commons Terrace. Love said, though the meal is free of charge, people must obtain a ticket in advance. Faculty may obtain their tickets for the barbecue from Vice-President of Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty T.C. Price Zimmerman’s office; students who eat at the Commons may obtain tickets from the Commons; students who eat at a house on Patterson Court should obtain tickets through their eating house, and students who live off-campus or eat independently may obtain their tickets from Mrs. Archie in the Dean of Student's office. William Workman, lyric baritone with the Frankfurt Opera in Germany, and music Professor James Swisher, a concert pianist, will give a lieder recital at 8:15 p.m. in Love Auditorium. There is no admission charge for the concert. Workman, son of Professor Emeritus and Mrs. Gatewood Workman, is a Davidson graduate. Peggy Pierotti treatment comes from federal grants. Freshman hall counselors have a particular problem in handling alcohol use among freshmen. Most freshmen are underage and cannot legally drink alcohol. Hall counselors have told their halls that they would report drug use to the Dean's office. They acknowledge that their position on alcohol is not clear, but have set a policy not to buy alcohol for underage freshmen or purchase it with hall social money. One hall counselor said she and her fellow hall counselor actively discourage drinking on the hall. They don’t plan mixers where the main object is drinking. “The problem is that it is difficult to keep people from drinking when they are used to having the freedom to drink,” she said. Another hall counselor said he was “not here to police drinking.” He said he felt that drug use or abuse are a cause to act but that alcohol use was best approached by friendly persuasion. An N.A. (Narcotics Anonymous) group has started on campus. N.A. is completely student-run. No one in the Administration is involved in the group. For more information contact William or Charles at 892-6319. King David 2 Samuel and applied them directly to colleges like Davidson. He said through the complex management and propaganda of the state, there emerges the painful figure of David. The ruler is caught between repressing and asserting his religious monopoly, he said. Of colleges like Davidson, Brueggemann said they are caught between being afraid of monopolizing knowledge and promoting the freedom of imagination that should accompany the learning experience. The implications of the establishment of the Davidic dynasty and the permanence of God's vow to David are almost too much for Hebrew history to handle. According to Brueggemann, “Monarchy should never have happened in Israel.” The tradition of Israelite religion conflicted with the whole idea of an earthly ruler. In Brueggemann’s words, the newly formed relationship between God and David in 2 Sam. 7 stands as a historical institution that claims ontological supremacy. The increased order and political turbulence that comes with the formation of a state evokes policies of cynicism on the part of God, he said. When the religious relationship is on a one-to-one scale, the truth is painful but God's policies are compassionate. King David, Brueggemann said, is a character struggling between the sheer cynical truth of the state and the painful truth of being an individual within the reach of God's compassion. Brueggemann, an ordained minister in the Church of Christ, has earned degrees from Elmhurst College, Eden Seminary, Union Seminary, and St. Louis University. He has written many books and is also the Evangelical Professor of Biblical Interpretation at Eden Seminary in Webster Grove, Mo. The Staley Lecture Series, founded in 1970, brings distinguished Christian scholars to religiously affiliated colleges such as Davidson to allow students and professors to view scholarship in a Christian context.