Friday, March 23, 1984 / The Davidsonian 7

Appealing Characters Add To Butterflies Are Free
By JEFFREY MANN

“Butterflies are free, and I have to be too.” That line effectively sums up what Leonard Gershe’s play Butterflies Are Free has to say. Both the central characters in this most ’60s of plays are eminently appealing. You just can’t help but like them.

Don Baker (Roy Fuller) is a young blind man struggling for self-reliance in a run-down New York apartment. Jill Tanner (Suzann Smith) is the dingy 19-year-old divorcée/girl-next-door. Don’s seemingly shrewish mother (Ellen Winkler) and an impossibly “relevant” off-Broadway director (Mark McCulloh) add more complications.

The real spark of the play has to be between Jill and Don though, and the spark is there. When pacing problems threaten in the first act, the two pick it up by sheer force of likability. Fuller convinces the audience that Don can make it, even when he doubts it himself. He pulls off the blindness well by not making a big deal of it. Smith’s performance must inevitably be compared with Goldie Hawn’s movie portrayal, but a comparison is unfair. Hawn could have been genetically engineered for this role. Smith plays the part differently and effectively. Despite her flightiness, she’s still the kind of girl one would like to have invite herself in for coffee. Her rushing delivery, though in character, occasionally threatens to garble some lines, however.

The other characters fill out the play nicely. Mrs. Baker avoids being the evil shrew and becomes at the end, if not likable, at least understandable. The final scene between mother and son is particularly powerful. Ralph Austin just makes one glad the ’60s are over.

The show was directed by senior Charlie Lovett, independently of the College theatre department. He has a good mix in the cast, with one student (Smith), one alumnus (Fuller), one town resident (Winkler), and a professor (McCulloh). Proceeds from the show will go toward a new lighting system for Hodson Hall.

All in all, Butterflies is an enjoyable but safe play, typical of much of the drama around town recently. Independent productions should be encouraged, and this production is definitely worth seeing.

Concert Choir Heads South For Spring Break
Strategically Located Next To The Flying Elephant Ride...
By ROGER KROMER

Our heads and brains purged clean of exam woes, those of us in the Davidson College Concert Choir packed our bags and headed for Florida during spring break. Unlike most of the students who flocked to this haven, we traveled south for the sole purpose of presenting a series of eight concerts for the honor of ol’ Davidson. Each was more successful than the previous one.

After a three and a half hour rehearsal Thursday night, our voices were hardly prepared to make joyous noises. Yet we woke Friday to as fair a morn as any and climbed aboard the Carolina Carrier, piloted by one Charles Dover. We were accompanied by Teddy (our stuffed mascot), three minors, and one cripple. With bells on our shoes and expectations as high as the temperatures that awaited us, we began our pilgrimage.

Our first stop found us at an obscure I-85 exit near Charlotte, where our conductor, Professor Morosan, obtained a baton from a suspicious little man on a street corner. That night we performed in Marietta,Georgia, home of Sarah Speed and Tom Stephens. The next day presented a tedious journey to Clearwater, Florida. Yet time flew by like a nimble lark while we played spades, spoons, and Sergei’s Sounds. We spent hours concentrating on our music and wondering if we had left folders indiscriminately about. In Clearwater, some of us attended the Greek Festival, while others dined with a drugstore magnate. Three of the seven churches we visited were pink, the brightest being in Clearwater. After singing at Peace Memorial Church re-dedication services, we hopped on the bus in eager anticipation of our scrumptious luncheon of Spam sandwiches.

On the way to Miami, we visited Alligator Alley in the Everglades. No alligators were spotted along with nothing else. After performing at Mark Batten’s hometown church, we songbirds investigated Miami's hot spots, including Little Havana. Leesburg, our next destination, offered us two memorable occasions. Not only did we sing for our biggest crowd, but some of us were treated to a tour of several mobile home parks, featuring both double and single-wide units. While in Leesburg, one among us became giddy over Heidi, a charming local lass. But things simmered down when Heidi's true age of 14 was discovered.

Having time to kill the next day, Alva Moore, our cruise director, led us to beautiful, sparkling Wekiva Falls. This natural spring and its delightful aroma reminded us all of the joys of Chem 41 lab. We really did have a good time there; our souls lived and our bodies burned. Our Orlando concert went well, with the exception of an old man who made trouble by laughing out loud during a most serious segment of the program. The next day we participated in the Walt Disney World International Music Festival, earning free passes to the Magic Kingdom. Our group was strategically located next to the flying elephant ride, where an announcement, forbidding disembarkment until Dumbo came to a complete stop, accompanied our music every three minutes. We spent that night in a Holiday Inn where the men took advantage of one dollar drinks and where we sang the alma mater for a gaggle of drunken businessmen.

We began our stay in Savannah by singing at the newly formed Skidaway Island Community Church. Afterwards, we performed at Savannah Christian Prep, where the elementary girls swooned over the unusually attractive male members of our group. Our performance at St. John’s Cathedral in downtown Savannah was a highlight of our trip. Here we heard what we were really supposed to sound like, wished all our stops had had such good acoustics, and developed a new appreciation of the music. Some go to church to sing and shout, but obviously not the congregation at First Presbyterian in Columbia, where we performed our last concert. By the second half of the show, the members had no doubt that we had rhythm. After obtaining liquid refreshment to cool our song-weary throats, we boarded the bus for the traditional party on the return trip to Davidson. Upon arrival, we threw down our luggage and headed to an after-tour party at Julia Johnston House. Here, we topped off our travels with dance and music, before passing out from sheer exhaustion and sheer exhaustion only. We had as good a break as any. After such a trip, who could ask for anything more? Some of us think ourselves the luckiest people in the world.