2 Friday, November 2, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Development Leader Visits Davidson

Dr. A. T. Ariyaratna, founder of the rural development movement Sarvodaya in Sri Lanka (an independent island nation off the
southern coast of India), visited Davidson College yesterday. Recipient of the 1982 Baudoin Award for International Development, Ariyaratna conducted a
workshop on community development with members of the Davidson Peace Coalition. Last night, Ariyaratna delivered a lecture titled “Buddhist Economics.”

Motivated by Mohandas K. Gandhi’s philosophy of non-violent, non-possessive self-help, Ariyaratna founded Sarvodaya in 1958 with a small group of
student volunteers. Today, with more than 33,000 full-time, primarily volunteer workers, the program is the largest non-governmental organization in Sri
Lanka and aids with development efforts in approximately 6,000 villages. In addition to his work with Sarvodaya, Ariyaratna, who gave
one of this year’s prestigious Schumacher lectures in London, serves as a liaison between Tamil separatists and the Sri Lankan
government.

Ariyaratna’s visit was sponsored by Davidson’s South Asian Studies Program.

Professor To Speak On Incan Astronomy

“In Search of Ancient Astronomers” is the title of a slide lecture to be given at 8 p.m. next Wednesday
in the 900 Room by Professor Ray White of the University of Arizona. Professor White has spent the last five
summers directing investigations of Machu Picchu and other cities of the ancient Incan civilization. His research indicates that the builders
of that civilization possessed a rich knowledge of the sky and its behaviors, and that their structures were designed to
record and preserve that knowledge.

The talk is sponsored by the American Astronomical Society’s Harlow Shapley Visiting Lectureship Program and by the Physics department.

Winston-Salem Painter Exhibits Works

Works by noted painter Ted Potter of Winston-Salem, N.C. are presently on display in Chambers Gallery until Nov. 12. In
addition, on Nov. 5 at 4 p.m. in the Gallery, the artist will give a talk about his life and
work.

In a written statement accompanying the displayed works, Potter said, “My work is abstract and deals with concerns for illusionary
space played off against and interacting with real space. Color is critical to this union and color is celebrated in
my work.

“I believe that in the last analysis Art is a ‘process’ that reveals a complex interlocking series of ideas, concepts,
challenges, decisions, failures and successes,” he added.

Currently director of the Southeastern Center for Contemporary Art (SECCA) in Winston-Salem, Potter earned his bachelor of fine arts degree
from Baker University and his master’s degree in fine arts from the University of California at Berkeley. A consultant for
numerous corporations and museums in the Southeast, Potter serves as a director of both the Rockefeller Foundation Artist-in-Residence Program and
the Awards in the Visual Arts competition of the National American Artists Fellowship Program.

Archeologist To Visit Davidson

Dr. S. Thomas Parker, a noted historian and archeologist, will speak on “Diocletian’s Frontier Policy: New Evidence from Roman Arabia”
at 8 p.m. next Wednesday in the Thurman Room of the Martin Chemistry Building. Currently an assistant professor of history
at North Carolina State University, Parker has led a series of archeological expeditions to Jordan that have attempted to identify
and excavate ancient Roman frontier forts.

Parker received his undergraduate education at Trinity University in San Antonio, Texas. He holds master and doctoral degrees in history
from the University of California at Los Angeles. Widely published, Parker’s works on ancient history and archeology have appeared in
scholarly journals such as the “American Journal of Philology” and the “Bulletin of the American Schools of Oriental Research,” as
well as more popular publications such as “Archeology.”

Sponsored by the College’s Public Lectures Committee, Parker’s address is open to the public at no charge.

News Summary

ODK Members Chosen

New Omicron Delta Kappa members tapped this week were:
Seniors: Hank Van Deventer, Jack Cobb, Sarah Speed, Bob Letton, Kerry Holbrook, Tricia Ives.
Juniors: Sara Beasley, Andrew Yon, Beadsie Woo, Billy Coxhead.

WDAV Begins Radiothon Sunday

WDAV’s Celebration ’84, the station’s sixth annual on-air radiothon,kicks off at 3 p.m. Sunday for a week of live musical
performances, special guests, and the Classical Lovers Top 20 countdown. WDAV seeks to raise $115,000 during the week-long fundraiser. “To
be sure, WDAV must reach the $115,000 goal by midnight, Nov. 11,” station manager John Clark said, “But in the
meantime, this fundraiser is really a celebration — of beautiful music, of gifted musicians, of dedicated volunteers and generous contributors
— all the parts that make this such a lively arts community. WDAV is a proud and important part of
that community, and Celebration '84 is the perfect time to say so.”

In addition to the dozens of guest artists scheduled to perform live during the WDAV radiothon, the station will celebrate
“Guarneri String Quartet Day” next Thursday, in recognition of the honorary chair of Celebration ’84, the world-renowned Guarneri String Quartet.
WDAV will broadcast the group’s music throughout the day. Results of the balloting for the Classical Lovers Top 20 will
also be heard during Celebration ’84, counting down from number 20 at 9 p.m. Sunday, and throughout the week to
the number one classical piece, to be played when the goal of $115,000 is reached on Nov. 11.

Among the guests representing area arts organizations to appear during Celebration ’84 are: Mark Woods and Howard Alexander of ACE,
Bruce Chalmers of the Charlotte Opera, Jonathan Baxter of the Children’s Theatre of Charlotte, Liza Plaster of the Caldwell Arts
Council, Doug Patti of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, Boris Sellers from Spirit Square, and Ann Britt for Community Concerts.

Town Begins Recycling Service

The Town of Davidson has begun a curbside pick-up recycling service. The service will run until mid-December, when an evaluation
of volume, cost and revenue will determine whether or not the project will continue. Materials to be recycled — clear
glass, newspaper, and aluminum cans — will be collected along the normal sanitation routes every Wednesday morning. Clean and Carry,
a subsidiary of Phillips Container Co., will transport the materials to the county landfill site on Holbrooks Road. After selling
the goods to a private buyer, the county will retain ten percent of the revenues and send the remainder back
to Phillips.

Betsy Dorn, Recycling Coordinator for Mecklenburg County said, “Phillips won’t make a big profit from this. They are sticking their
necks out because they think it is a nice thing to do.” According to Dorn, “This is the most extensive
recycling effort that has been undertaken in North Carolina.” She said a group of volunteers in Davidson had operated a
recycling drop station for glass for 15 years, until the site was cleared for the new Post Office. The volunteers
are now promoting the new project. They sent a mailer to town residents and hung notices on doors to encourage
participation. A similar recycling program in Huntersville is proving unsuccessful due to lack of promotion, Dorn said. “It is basically
a community project and it is their responsibility to promote the activity in their town.” Because of the enthusiasm shown
by town volunteers, Dorn said she thinks “the success will be much greater in Davidson.”

Although the pick-up routes do not include the College campus, the town is encouraging students to participate. Students can leave
materials on the curb outside the town hall or, by arrangement, in front of residents’ homes. All items should be
left before 8 a.m. Wednesday morning, but not earlier than Tuesday night. Newspapers should be placed in brown paper bags
or bundled. Glass should be empty, rinsed out, have all caps removed, and be placed in a double paper bag.
Only clear glass can be recycled. Aluminum cans should be tied in a plastic trash bag.

— Pita Bread Sandwiches To Go
— Whole Wheat Bagels
— Wine and Beer Specials of the Month

With This Ad, 10% Off ANY Items In The Store!

Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St.
Davidson, N.C. 28036
892-7521

First Union National Bank
P.O. Box 39
Davidson • Cornelius • Huntersville
