Friday, February 10, 1984 / The Davidsonian 7

~Music

By STEVE MANK

The music of Hunters and Collectors is the stuff nightmares are made of. Winding, cacophonous, biting melodies that seem almost
to accuse the listener of some heinous crime define their self-titled debut LP. The mood of the album is one
of delightful terror — if this is a bad dream, it’s so fascinatingly horrific you don’t want to wake up.

A strong, funky drum beat underlies all tracks on the disc. The mocking rhythm tries to tease the listener into
dancing to songs that should not be danced to. The first track, “Tow Truck,” features a delicate, playful guitar performing
strange antics before a lush background of bass and strings. The anonymous vocals (there is no mention of any group
members anywhere on the album) sound commanding yet suffering. As the song reaches a crescendo, it opens up to reveal
a powerful orchestra of horns and strings only to cut off faster than it began.

Elsewhere on the album, slide guitar — obviously played by some wayward blues master — is featured along with rare
African drums, devouring bass, and sparing synthesizers. “Mouthtrap,” perhaps the most/least appealing track on the album, highlights frightening images and
despairingly inaccessible lyrics that sing about some kind of tragic flaw we have without saying what it could be. The
worst part of the song is the way it fools you into reclining trustingly into its lulling, caressing vocals only
to stab you with lines like, “With our blood cuddles and backyard kisses / Upon this two-backed beast nothing misses.”
I don’t have any idea what that means either, but it can’t be good.

The lyrics at first seem terrible, but they’re so deliberate and elusive that it soon becomes obvious that any inadequacies
are on the listener’s part. The entire LP is out for effect. The front cover features barely focused fangs slightly
obscured by the shadow of a picket fence while the other side shows a bizarre collage of drawings, photographs, and
childhood trinkets. The lyric sheet within has one more song than the disc has. The exclusion of that song, no
stranger than the rest, is an enigma unto itself.

Hunters and Collectors is a good album, but it’s always safer to buy something easy like the Stones than something
that could very easily send you a little haywire.

~ Quick Pan

It’s really a shame to see an incredible blues/rock guitarist like Ted Nugent waste all his talent on himself. His
new album Penetration features amazing manipulation of barely controlled guitars and amplifiers, but the musicianship does nothing to rectify the
idiotic compositions and annoying vocals. The new album does not leave you wishing there were no Ted Nugent, but rather
that there were another Amboy Dukes on which his talent could be well spent.

Fine Film Features Altman’s

By CRAIG DETWEILER

McCabe and Mrs. Miller (1971). Directed by Robert Altman. Starring Warren Beatty, Julie Christie, Rene Auberjonois, and Shelley Duvall. ***

Ever wonder why film critics devote so much of their reviews to the ideas and techniques of directors? Think it’s
because critics like funny camera angles? Perhaps they secretly desire to be directors? No, the emphasis upon the director’s influence
stems from the auteur theory of film. From the French word for author, auteur applies when critics equate directors with
the authorship of the movie, placing his individual stamp upon his work of art. While this theory has grown into
great overuse, it can accurately be applied to the work of Robert Altman. McCabe and Mrs. Miller displays the creative
touches that dominate Altman’s films.

Finally launching a career that began with “B” movies and TV productions, Robert Altman previewed his tremendous work throughout the
past decade with the appearance of M*A*S*H in 1970. The boisterous antics of those wacko doctors cannot be found in
McCabe. One will find the same murky

James Bond Is Back

By MATT MORRIS

Goldfinger. Directed by Guy Hamilton. Starring Sean Connery. Rating: *** 1/2. Live and Let Die.Directed by Guy Hamilton. Starring Roger
Moore. Rating ***. 007 returns to Davidson, this time in a double feature format. The two films, Goldfinger and Live
and Let Die, show both Sean Connery and Roger Moore at the height of their powers as Ian Fleming’s suave,
ever-so-chauvinistic (good thing they didn’t show these during Women’s Week!) secret agent. Produced at the height of Bond mania, 1964’s
Goldfinger is arguably the best entry in the entire series. Richard Maibaum’s clever script actually improves on the book, and
Sean Connery’s sassy Scottish touch results in a fine Bond epic. But there’s more: director Guy Hamilton keeps things at
a nice clip, and the movie flies by like a bullet. He never steps too far into the plot to
let the audience forget that this is a comic book. As Goldfinger, Gert Frobe is truly menacing, and his sidekick,
the evil, hat-throwing Oddjob, is a formidable Bond villain in the movie serial tradition. The ladies are unusually stunning in
this outing as well, and the overall feeling is warm, even humanistic — surprising for most films, especially a Bond
flick. The star of the film, however, is Fort Knox. A complete replica designed by Bond veteran Ken Adam, it
supplies the background for a truly hair-raising climax. Don’t miss this one.

Live and Let Die

If Live and Let Die’s plot seems to be a mere excuse for car and boat chases, never mind, because
they are some of the most exhilarating ever filmed. (In fact, there’s a motorboat jump during the film that is
now in the Guinness Book of World Records.) As far as Bond pics go, this is standard yet satisfying fare.
Roger Moore, less prissy than usual, seems to have fun in this, his first 007 endeavor, and Jane Seymour is
quite alluring as Solitaire. The real star here, aside from the action, is Geoffrey Holder as Baron Samedi — his
every move is like a menacing octopus, and his final appearance is a nice touch. Also, Paul McCartney & Wings’
heavy metal title song explodes and gives the film an edge. If you're at all tolerant, see Live and Let
Die.

Creativity

The abundant box-office receipts of M*A*S*H enabled Altman to establish his own independent production company, Lion’s Gate Films. With total
direction and production control, Altman’s free to develop his minor tale about the two title characters. The plot revolves around
John McCabe’s efforts to establish the town of Presbyterian Church. A small-time gamesman who has illusions of gunslinging grandeur, McCabe
enlists the help of a madam, Mrs. Miller, to stir up commerce and tourism in his new settlement. Just as
McCabe’s business venture takes off financially, a mining corporation “offers” to take Presbyterian Church out of his hands. The dramatic
tension of the film focuses upon McCabe’s personal battle with the mining company. Altman’s vision derives its power from the
universality of the central struggle, which can be generalized to the many current battles of the little guy versus the
devouring conglomerates. Altman’s directorial expertise appears in the hazy hue in the interior photography, the gentle, laid-back pace, and the
freedom granted to the excellent ensemble. McCabe’s interior scenes feature a dim, brown glow that gives the film an old
western atmosphere. The smoke-filled rooms jibe perfectly with the relaxed, slow lifestyle that the town’s citizens practice. Warren Beatty and
Julie Christie lead a typically unique Altman cast. With a dynamic relationship that balances business and love, Beatty and Christie
establish their status as a couple which later clicked in Heaven Can Wait and Shampoo. Altman employs the usual brilliant
assortment of supporting players from his Lion’s Gate Company. Shelley Duvall’s performance hints at the screen persona she has come
to develop since. Overall, the outstanding individual components, given direction under Altman’s meticulous care, combine for a pleasurable, intriguing film.
What appears to be a slow, eventless western culminates in a humorous/horrible final scene that fades to an image that
will stay with the viewer for many years to come. Do not expect to see another satirical farce like M*A*S*H.
Instead, go to McCabe and Mrs. Miller to witness an important cog in a director's checkered career, an intelligent, entertaining
period piece, and a challenging commentary upon America’s devoursome economic system.
