Friday, October 19, 1984 / The Davidsonian 5

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Misalliance Embodies Parent-Child Relationships

By SAMUEL SCOTT

Each fall and spring term, the Theater Department presents a dramatic production. This fall, the undertaking is on the lighter
side, as the department produces Misalliance, a comedy by George Bernard Shaw. The play is subtitled “a debate in one
sitting,” and through this debate, it takes a comic look at the universal theme of child-parent relationships.

The setting is in the home of an upper-middle-class English family around the year 1910. Two aristocratic families, the Tarletons
and the Summerhays, are at first discussing mundane, everyday matters. Suddenly, they find themselves drawn into a witty and at
times heated argument in which they reveal more about themselves than they wish. Three characters outside the families unexpectedly “drop
in,” stimulating the argument as well as adding a few surprises of their own.

Theatre Professor Rupert Barber is directing the play. “Shaw presents some very stimulating ideas. I think it’s very appropriate that
we present the play on parents weekend, as it deals with parents' relationships with their grown children,” he said.

Barber cast the play during auditions in September. Tarleton, benefactor of the Tarleton family and well-read founder of Tarleton Underwear
Company, is portrayed by senior John Marks. His feisty daughter Hypatia (sophomore Noel Brewster), arrogant son Johnny (senior John Syme),
and gentle wife (senior Valerie Hinton) complete the Tarleton family. Lord Summerhays (senior Dan Lindsey) is a former British Colonial
Governor and Bentley (sophomore Howie Moyes) his son, a weak, childish intellect who is preparing to wed Hypatia. Bentley's college
friend (freshman Lance Luckey), a liberated woman daredevil (junior Jennifer Poole), a mystery gunman (freshman Dan Michaelis), and a maid
(junior Allison McGill) round out the cast.

Theatre Professor Joe Gardner is technical director and in charge of stage design. Aside from the guidance of Barber and
Gardner, the production is almost entirely student-run. Theater students gain hands-on experience in every aspect of the play, from box
office and publicity to stage management and set construction.

Brilliant Acting Makes Pieces of Eight

By ANNE LAMBERT

Genius is not a word to be used lightly, especially at Davidson, but when the real thing comes along, we
ought to be able to distinguish it. Pieces of Eight, a collection of dramatic pieces performed by the Acting Company
in Love Auditorium on Wednesday night, was theatre directing genius at its best, combining variety, spontaneity, and creativity into eight
solid-gold pieces of pure theater.

Director Alan Schneider's staging of the original production of Edward Albee’s Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? in 1962 brought him
to prominence in the theatrical realm, and he remained a major force in theater for the next twenty years with
his innovative productions of Pinter, Brecht, and Beckett, until his death last spring.

The story goes that Schneider was walking down a street in San Antonio, Texas, lamenting Edward Albee’s “The Sandbox” as
a wonderful play that was too often ignored because of its short length which made it difficult to stage. Across
the street, in a pawnshop window, Schneider noticed a display of Spanish gold doubloons, and the idea for Pieces of
Eight, a presentation of eight short theatrical “gems” combined into an evening of drama, was born.

The eight works, by authors as renowned and varied as Edward Albee, Tom Stoppard, Samuel Beckett, and Eugene Ionesco, are
sewn together by a common theme of relationships — “essentially what life is all about,” says company member Libby Colahan.
The pieces are directed by different members of the Acting Company, showcasing a range of directorial styles and interpretations.O consistent
only in their excellence of quality, as the actors run the gamut from the realistic to the absurd, the elegant
to the bizarre, the morose to the hilarious, changing pace, makeup, costume, and style to fit the mood and message
of the play. Some of the pieces are more accessible than others. The second work, Harold Pinter’s “The Black and
White,” finds two wistful bag ladies slurping soup and chomping bread while they gaze mournfully at the buses which are
going places they are not. The conversation and situation, ever Pinter-esque, are exasperatingly vague, and the scene is salvaged only
by the visually fascinating characterizations of Laura Brutsman and Libby Colahan. Brutsman’s round moon-face smacks and scrunches to create unusual
facial expressions which synthesize youth and age. She is a particularly compelling and sympathetic Grandma in the third work, Albee’s
“The Sandbox.”

The stunning visual elegance of Beckett's “Come and Go,” which begins the second half, is, as in “The Black and
White,” the sustaining element of the work. More ballet than drama, it is a dreamy portrayal of three women (Colahan,
Brutsman, and Julie Fishell), former schoolmates who meet after a long separation. Languishing movements, deliberately labored speech patterns, and striking
top lighting which keeps the women’s faces in shadow all serve to give the piece an impressionistic feel — as
in art, specific details may not be completely understood but the audience is struck by the overall visual effect.

The bizarre conversation shared by the three fishing buddies in Ring Lardner’s “The Tridget of Greva” is so nutty it
can't help but be hilarious. (“I was born out of wedlock,” says one wacky philosopher. “Mighty pretty country out there,”
agrees the other.) The pace of “The Tridget” becomes tedious at times, but the New England inflections and mannerisms of
Albert Farrar, David Manis, and Philip Goodwin are, though slow, nevertheless wickedly funny.

Pieces closes both halves of the show with what are undoubtedly its strongest works. Tom Stoppard’s “The Dogg’s Troupe Hamlet”
is possibly the most hilarious fifteen minutes I've ever seen on stage. And Robert Anderson's affectionate “I'm Herbert” is a
silly, touching play, not about people growing old together, but about people growing in together. Goodwin and Colahan are so
precisely attuned to each other as actors that as characters they are utterly believable.

The directing genius of Alan Schneider is evident in all eight pieces. He minimizes the difficulties of content in certain
pieces by accentuating those particular works visually, as he does, for example, with his Monty Python staging of Ionesco’s “Foursome.”
The frenzied foursome tell us that “characters in a play don't have to be bigger fools than in real life,”
but, they promise, “we're doing our best.” Alan Schneider didn't have to present an evening of theatrical excellence and variety
but as Pieces of Eight demonstrates, he did his best.

John Marks stands to face Dan Michaelis during a Misalliance rehearsal. Peggy Pierotti to lighting and scene construction. Misalliance opens
with a special student presentation at 7:30 p.m. Thursday. Tickets for students will be $2 for this show only. At
4:30 on Friday, a matinee will be presented along with an 8 p.m. show. A first-time dinner theater will be
held at 6:30 p.m. on Saturday. Tickets are $10.00 for the dinner theater. The play will be presented at 8
p.m. on Nov. 2 and 3 in Hodson Hall. Tickets are $3 for students and senior citizens, $5 general admission.
For reservations, call 892-1696.
