12 Friday, May 4, 1984 / The Davidsonian

OPINIONS

ATC Shows Bias Toward SGA
Jeffrey Mann

This week’s relatively fiery SGA meeting concentrated mostly on why several publications should receive larger allotments from next year’s budget.
There was precious little discussion of where expenditures could be cut, however. The SGA should have looked first to its
own house before it decimated those of others.

The Activities Tax Council (ATC) looked carefully at the proposals from all the organizations seeking funds and tried to reconcile
the requests with the available resources. Predictably, requests exceeded what was available. I don’t envy the job of deciding what
projects won't get funding. The Council had to bridge the gap between wishes and possibilities. The burden for bridging that
gap, however, fell disproportionately on the campus publications. The Davidsonian, Hobart Park, and Quips and Cranks all either received cuts
(Hobart Park almost in half), or clearly inadequate funding.

The big winner in this year’s ATC free-for-all was the SGA. It scored a $1000, or almost 25 percent, increase
over last year’s appropriation, the largest absolute increase of any organization. That’s hardly surprising since the SGA largely supervises the
approval of its own budget. The SGA president appoints the ATC chairperson who appoints the other five student members of
the Council. This year, four of the six student members were associated with the SGA Senate. ATC Chairperson Ester Kim
was SGA chancellor last year and had some part in the creation of the SGA budget. The ATC had no
members from any of the student publications, even though they account for about two-thirds of the total ATC budget.

The final debate on this year’s division of ATC funds took place in the SGA Senate, where SGA President John
Laughlin ruled an attempt to discuss the SGA budget proposal out of order. But where could some proposals be shaved?
The SGA requested $1,500 for SGA Admissions Weekend this year. It will probably end up...

Benedict

I would like to express my disappointment with Kerry Holbrook’s “Cause/Solution Issues Irrelevant to U.S. Decline” which appeared in last
week's Davidsonian. I like Kerry very much, but I am saddened to see that she, like too many other concerned
and politically-interested individuals, has succumbed to the unfortunate temptation to view the world through colored lenses. It is all too
easy to seek to simplify complex issues, to view them subjectively rather than objectively, and to modify or define the
“facts” to fit.

The Salvadoran crisis is not, as the article was meant to suggest, a simplistic drama between a powerful, militaristic government
which slaughters its own citizens and an idealistic, good-natured, reform-minded guerrilla movement. The truth is neither so simple nor so
romantic. El Salvador’s problem is anarchy, a lack of legitimate central authority able to maintain a national consensus. The Government
in San Salvador is not of an evil character and the guerrillas are not heroes. Such a portrayal of the
Salvadoran crisis is inaccurate, misleading, and irresponsible.

The modernization of the West’s nuclear deterrent is not a simplistic race led by power-hungry government and military-industrial officials driven
by crude fear and hatred, and to present U.S. and NATO deterrence policy in such a light is further inaccurate,
misleading, and irresponsible. The Pershing II’s ground-launched cruise missiles, and MX’s do not provide the West a first-strike capability. The
P-II has insufficient range, the GLCM has too long a flight time (6-8 hours), and the MX is being deployed
in insufficient numbers. Each system was proposed to balance Soviet nuclear deployments (the SS-20, SS-21, and new SS-18, respectively). The
American and European leaders are neither blind nor immoral; they also understand the issue better than naive...Spending about $1000 as
it has for the last two years. This money comes from the student activities tax; activities are things like the
artists series, club football, literary magazines, and the career symposium. Recruiting is an administration function, and the Administration should foot
the bill. The Black Student Coalition also receives $750 of ATC funds for recruiting. Arguably, students have an interest in
convincing promising prospectives to come to Davidson. I do not question the value of SGA Weekend. It is a Good
Thing. The SGA should plan, encourage, promote, provide manpower and do everything possible to make the project a success. It
should not, however, divert $1000 of student activities funds—or one-fifth of the total SGA budget—to pay for administrative costs.

The amount is by no means trivial. That $1000 would probably enable Hobart Park to print one more issue. The
editors will only be able to print one with the current level of funding. It would also cover about half
of the photo budget for Quips and Cranks. The current appropriation leaves $85 for everything but actually printing the book—$85
to pay for film, photo equipment, chemicals, the phone bill, darkroom salaries, and pens and paper clips. These legitimate student
activities are being sacrificed to show a few high school seniors a good time. I suppose it shouldn’t surprise anyone
that ATC Chairman Ester Kim ran SGA Weekend for the past several years and supervised the SGA budget for the
last year. The conflict of interest in the current system is readily apparent. I do not believe that there is
a conspiracy to divert funds, but I do think that one organization seeking funds should not dominate the process to
the detriment of others. Like any group, the SGA has its own interests, priorities, and wishes. This is natural. What
is unnatural is that the SGA plays such a large role in determining the funding of all organizations, including itself.
I would hope that in the future the ATC would be more independent or at least broadly-based. If sacrifices are
necessary, they should be evenly distributed.

Mann is a senior center/journalism major from Atlanta, GA and associate editor of the Davidsonian.

Colored Lenses Over-Simplify World Problems

The overused “guns vs. butter” presentation is also open to debate. American government spending in 1982 was $916 billion. Spending
on national defense and all functions of international relations (including all military and economic aid overseas) stood at $204 billion.
Kerry’s arithmetic is deliberately misleading. U.S. Defense spending consumes 6 percent of G.N.P., down from 9.5 percent in 1963 and
less than half of the Soviet percentage. America is spending more on “butter” than ever before.

The appeal of Kerry’s article lies in its call for action. Before acting, however, one must begin with a responsible
and realistic understanding of the issues at hand. Romanticizing complex issues for the convenience of an idealistic bias only makes
matters worse. Pleas to love mankind and open America’s borders to all would-be refugees are idealistic and impractical; mankind does
not have such high standards, and we fool ourselves to believe otherwise. The fundamental obstacle to a national consensus and
effective government policy is the growing tendency of unrealistic individuals to assume overly-biased and self-righteous interpretations of issues: to view
the world through colored lenses. This temptation should be resisted in favor of realistic evaluation of complex issues and trust
in our elected government.

Benedict is a senior Center major from Potomac, MD.
