10 Friday, January 13, 1984 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ann Meador, Editor
David Resnik, Executive Editor
Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor
John Gathings, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

Help Wanted
Wanted: A new editor. Contact the yearbook staff anytime, anywhere.

Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor

When the SGA’s winter elections concluded Dec. 13, one campus organization was left without a leader. No one even signed
up to run for Quips and Cranks editor. The incident is frustrating for two reasons. First, it is disappointing when
not a single student here is interested in being responsible for running the largest-budget student organization. Most students could use
Davidson’s heavy academic load as an excuse for not running, but certainly someone must be capable of bearing the extra
burden. Second, and more important, this incident demonstrates a clear failure of Davidson’s electoral system. If Quips and Cranks had
been able to promote its own editors from within, then new staff members would have had incentive for working and
moving up the organization’s ranks. This process would guarantee continuity and qualified editors, and it would also attract more new
staff members.

Election reform is clearly in order. Like professional publications, Davidson publications must be able to determine their own editors. Publications
— even most college publications — choose their own editors; general elections are inappropriate because the general public knows nothing
of what an editor should be. Furthermore, most of the general public doesn’t especially care. Some may fear that if
student publications select their own editors, the publications would be run by cliques. Although designed to prevent cliques, open elections
by their nature encourage them. An entire staff can be replaced as the result of a single election, while this
possibility becomes improbable when the staff appoints its own editors. In a small community such as Davidson, only a limited
number of students will want to work on a publication in the first place. In short, there will always be
publications “cliques,” whether the editor is elected or selected.

Student government elections are legitimate, because the persons elected directly represent the students. Publications, on the other hand, serve as
a forum for evaluating student opinion and sentiment rather than a body for representing it. Elections in this case politicize
editorships unnecessarily.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address to: The Davidsonian, Box
218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone (704) 682-2000 ext. 148 and 140. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey
Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, North Carolina
28036.

News Staff: David McGee, Assistant News Editor, Roxanna Guilford, Rand Hartsell, Bob Loper, Wayne Magruder, Frances Palmer, John Ruppenthal, Tom
Schilling, Julie Sternal, Lisa Thomas, David Van Pelt, Elizabeth White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson
Arts and Entertainment Staff: Ida Phillips, Assistant Arts and Entertainment Editor, Miguel Abreu, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris, Tim
Waples
Sports Staff: Scott Huie, Assistant Sports Editor, Boyd Blackburn, Kerry Brown, Steve Byers, Hunter Gourley
Photography Staff: Carroll Overton, Assistant Photography Editor, Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael Dent, Caryl Dawson, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Laura McGee, Anderson
Scott, Mike Snell, Bruce vonStein Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey
Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt
Production Staff: Kevin Horan
Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Debby Williams
Copy Editing: Christine Jackson
Circulation: David McCurry
Manager SBS: Joe McAfree

HOW DO YOU KILL SOMETHING THAT CAN’T DO ANYTHING?

Money For People, Not Trophies

To the Editor:

I read with pleasure the article in the December Update concerning mathematics professor Bruce Jackson and the personal interest he
took in his students. Professor Jackson is not unique; Davidson has done a superb job in attracting and retaining many
professors of his high caliber. I too, had several such teachers. And that is largely what makes Davidson so great
and so warmly remembered by its alumni. It is the experiences that touch individuals that matter most. Those experiences change
and influence us the most and are warmly cherished... for everyone wants to be treated as a unique individual.

A large college or a state university cannot reach its people this way. The numbers preclude it. Lecturers typically have
hundreds, sometimes a thousand in attendance. Many classes are taught by busy and harried graduate teaching assistants. Professors (so-called) are
interested not in students but in research and publishing papers. These schools, which as we all know constitute a majority
of schools, try to compensate for this shallow approach to the individual by giving their students (but mostly their nostalgic
alumni) great sports teams. In my eyes, this is an extraordinarily poor second to what Davidson students receive.

And so I read with horror that there are still (!) those who advocate allocating scarce resources best spent elsewhere
on football. This is a grievous mistake in logic. Intramurals, the arts, and the classroom are all infinitely more important.
I hope that those of the Davidson community who advocate so-called preferential treatment of athletes are ridiculed into silence. They
do not understand what Davidson is, was, or should be. I have never heard one single person in my class
(including some who played football) ever say that varsity sports should be a priority item. They all remember people and
community as more important. Spend your money on people, not trophies.

Herbert Dunmock, '74

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters that are of general interest, but we
adhere to these four guidelines:
1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2) We require that letters be neatly typed.
3) We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.
4) We reserve the right not to print letters that:
a) function as advertisements;
b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes;
c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in other letters printed on the same topic.

We also reserve the right to condense very long letters. The Davidsonian does not in any way endorse the opinions
expressed in the letters that we print.
