Friday, March 30, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Fliers Constitute Irresponsible Distortion

Ross Hunter and Debby Williams

Last week, fliers appeared throughout Chambers and the Union with the headlines “Could the Peace Movement Exist in Moscow? No, But It Could Be Planned There” and “Jobs, Peace, Freedom: You Can Help — Support Aid to Central America.” These catchy fliers gave no indication of sponsorship by a member of the campus community nor did they present the information in a clear, unambiguous manner. We question the manner in which these fliers were presented and challenge the integrity of their assertions.

The misrepresentation of information in the fliers comprises one of our primary complaints. In the flier that implies the peace movement is planned in Moscow, the only evidence given is a quote from Dimitri Z. Manuilski. The flier identifies Mr. Manuilski as a “Soviet leader who served as President of the United Nations Security Council General Council, speaking to the Lenin School for senior communist party cadres.” The flier neglects that he was a representative of the Ukraine S.S.R. who served as the President of the United Nations Security Council only in July of 1949, only served four sessions in the United Nations, and died in 1958. (This information can be found in the Great Soviet Encyclopedia and not on the flier.) The point is that this man is not an influential or current leader of the Soviet Union. While his statement contains inflammatory Soviet rhetoric about launching peace movements and crushing capitalist countries, there is no support given to verify his remark. This quote misleads the reader with unsubstantiated and intentionally provoking information. The flier attempts to frighten the reader into the simplistic conclusion which it advocates.

The implication that the Peace Movement is guided by the Soviet Union is probably one that flatters the Soviets. It is incomprehensible that a single organization or government is capable of secretly generating the broad-based, grassroots support for the decentralized Peace Movement which exists in Europe and the U.S. Supporters of the Peace Movement come from all social, economic, political, and religious backgrounds. As the number of peace activists swells, the Soviets would love to be credited with the organizational, motivational, and inspirational skills necessary to plan the Peace Movement. Though the Soviets may attempt to infiltrate the Peace Movement, this does not mean that they have succeeded or influenced it.

Besides being false and unverified, the claim that the Soviets are behind the Peace Movement is also irrelevant. Accusations of Soviet involvement intend to smear the image of the Peace Movement and do not discuss its legitimacy or value. Discussion of the Peace Movement should concentrate on the validity of the movement’s basic issues. Rather than focusing on obscure information, other questions need to be addressed. For example, is a mutual freeze verifiable and possible? Should the U.S. pursue more meaningful negotiation with the Soviets? Do nuclear weapons ensure peace? What are worthy national security interests? These are significant issues raised by concerned individuals in the Peace Movement. Responsible discussion is needed at Davidson, instead of individuals resorting to shallow claims.

The flier addressing aid to Central America makes similar, unverified assertions between the lack of peace, jobs, and freedom in the region, and the combined role of the Soviet Union, Cuba, and Nicaragua. Again, without providing any basis or facts, this flier directs the reader to easy, unfounded assumptions. The continual use of military aid and intervention to resolve complex Central American conflicts is short-sighted, dangerous, and simplistic.

The second major criticism of these fliers is that they are anonymous. No Davidson individual or group has claimed responsibility for the wide dissemination of the material. Though an address for further information appears at the bottom of the Central America flier, the sponsoring group is a national organization from Washington D.C. While these fliers could be used to stimulate debate, to begin dialogue among students, or even to lead interested individuals to further sources of information on campus, the lack of sponsorship halts all these possibilities. Therefore, the initial motivation for displaying these fliers can hardly be to discuss or educate. Further, the weakness of these fliers as propaganda leaves considerable doubt as to the intent of this dispersed display. Several groups on Davidson campus openly discussThese issues and welcome dialogue and debate. The Davidson Peace Coalition, the Y-Corps Nuclear Awareness Group, and the Davidson Committee on Central America all openly address these issues. The latter two primarily focus on nonpartisan education and generating discussion in the Davidson community. While the Davidson Peace Coalition takes a more politically active role in expressing opinion, they also strongly encourage dialogue between people of differing opinions. We hope that the individuals responsible for distributing the fliers will join these groups in discussion of these issues with interested Davidson students. Further, we call on students and faculty to carefully examine these vital issues of peace, and government and individual responsibility. Hopefully, with open debate and conscious thought, the distribution of irresponsible material will not be repeated.

Hunter is a junior math major from Mobile, AL. Williams is a senior Center major from Atlanta, GA. Both are members of the Davidson Peace Coalition.

Benedict’s Views Lack Hope
Jeffrey Mann

I was very saddened by Jeb Benedict’s opinions article last week (“No Rules Apply in World Politics”). It was not so much the ideological stance that bothered me; I enjoy reading articulate political commentary, even when I fundamentally disagree. The depressing element of this article stemmed from the hope-destroying gloominess underlying Benedict’s views.

What a dismal existence it must be having only conflict and strife to look forward to in the world. When one denies negotiation a role in international politics, he relegates the world to a future of never-ending war and struggle. That’s what depresses me. It’s one thing to say that negotiations are often ineffectual, but quite another to say that it’s foolish to try. That is what I get from Benedict’s piece. I grant that prospects for a negotiated settlement look unlikely in Central America or the Mideast. I’m not yet ready to yield to the D’Aubissons, Sharons, and Khomeinis who see total war as the solution, either. Negotiation is no panacea; it’s often frustrating, obstructive, and time-wasting. It also doesn’t kill anyone.

The far more disturbing implication of Benedict’s view is that in order to succeed, the U.S. should become more aggressive as “a force for good in the world.” The implication is that if other nations are aggressive and nasty, then we should match them nastiness for nastiness. Benedict says,

Some nations recognize the inviolability of power in their foreign policies: The Soviets used tanks, not diplomats in Afghanistan. The Iranians and Iraqis use tanks, artillery shells, and waves of young Jihad-driven faithfuls to pursue their political objectives. Guerrillas in El Salvador send their message by destroying the infrastructure of the very country they wish to save.

I’m kind of proud that my country doesn’t do these kinds of things, and I certainly wouldn’t recommend the tactics. I am ashamed that my government supports the contras who are destroying the infrastructure of the very country they wish to save, Nicaragua in this case. There is no reason to support “our side” if it is just as inhuman as “their side.”

Aside from a philosophical distaste for many of the ideas in the article, I’m not sure I agree with historical analysis either. An equally plausible explanation for the primacy of power in Vietnam and other trouble spots stems from premature use of military power and not the inherent superiority of imposed over negotiated settlements. Ho Chi Minh did not want to fight the U.S. He did want the French colonialists out. If we had negotiated before trying to “bomb them into the Stone Age,” perhaps the tragedy Benedict describes would have been averted.

A solution in Central America is elusive partly because of the extremism of the politics of the nations involved. Introduction of foreign military forces tends to eliminate the coalition-building center. The countries are divided between those who want the foreign forces there, and those who are fighting to get them out. Thus the political climates of El Salvador, Nicaragua, Iran, and Cuba split into contentious far-right and far-left groups with little hope for negotiations.

Cynical defeatism is a dangerous policy. Just because the world is a terrible place does not mean that it is foolish to attempt to do anything about it. Over-reliance on military solutions has proved to be, and will continue to be, the real source of sorrow in the world.

Mann is a senior Center/Journalism major from Atlanta, GA, and is Associate Editor of The Davidsonian.