Wednesday, December 12, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Music: Tony Carey Experiments With Rock Opera
By STEVE MANK

Tony Carey seems to freak everyone out a bit. When he started the band Planet P a few years ago,
no one really knew how to process the conflicting signals he was sending. The music sounded new wave enough, but
the guy singing had hair down past his shoulders and sounded more like Bob Seger than, say, Rick Ocasek. Nonetheless,
Planet P did manage to get a hit in the form of the bathetic “Why Me,” the lament of a
wayward astronaut — a sort of 1980’s “Space Oddity.” Later Carey released a solo L.P. which gave him a hit
in the song “Fine, Fine Day,” a pleasant little ditty about a reformed mob boss who is shot down by
another gangster who held a grudge. Usually after two hit singles, a performer receives some notoriety, but at this point
all we had learned about Carey was that the man likes to tell a story.

Now Carey has decided to join up with Planet P again. The only problem is he is the only member
now. Anyway, Carey/Planet P have released a new album, and, if nothing more, Pink World surely fills a void. The
rock opera is a naturally flawed genre of the modern pop idiom. The best ones thus far have been Tim
Rice and Andrew Lloyd-Webber’s Jesus Christ Superstar, The Who’s Tommy, and Pink Floyd’s The Wall. All have been about confused
Christ figures with a destiny that they rediscover time and again and who are loved by a few and hated
and exploited by the rest.

Meet Artemis, Carey’s seven-year-old Jesus/Tommy/Pink. Quite honestly, the story of Artemis is not very different from its predecessors, and at
times — as on songs like “The Boy Who Can’t Talk” — Planet P sounds so derivative that it could
pass for Pink Floyd (as in Beatle) -Mania. Artemis is divinely endowed with extraordinary powers. Among other things, he can
read minds, see the future, and create powerful disturbances with just his mind. Artie is a prophet, and like any
good prophet, his vision is appropriately vague: “There’s a pink world coming down.” To the uninitiated, this is meaningless, but
to anyone familiar with rock and roll iconography, images of mushroom clouds (where’s the video?) rush to mind.

After two album sides of befuddling and being used and worshipped by the public, the inevitable cruise missiles appear over
the horizons. The plot thickens. As the debris settles, we find the young Artie the proud dictator (of sorts) of
a colony (of sorts) of survivors of the blast. It’s a bit like a fishbowl, complete with a pic-fab environment
and obligatory surveillance devices a la 1984. The Colonists (Artemites in Carey’s lexicon) are perfectly happy in The Zone as
it’s called, for even if they lose their privacy and free will and such, at least they were spared certain
death.

Artemis, like any good messiah, takes his cue to leave just when his followers need him most. The Zone disappears,
and where lord Artie once stood there is a pool of pink liquid. A new baby is left at the
door of the colony’s orphanage and the music once constrained crescendos with the too accurately titled “Requiem.”

Alright, so it’s a little trite. A little too much and a little too little chutzpah. But all rock operas
have a liberal dose of obvious archetypes. Pink World does do some things that are really pretty effective. For one
thing, Carey’s songs, with all their pseudo-intellectuality and repeated structure, are basically good. “The Perfect Place,” the colonists’ praises and
complaints of life in The Zone, is really a pretty good song both lyrically and musically. And though he doesn’t
do it all the time, every now and then, Carey will pen a line that just really works — “reason
flickers like candlelight.” Heck, he even dabbles in different narrative voices: watch out Melville! Instrumentally, Carey is one of the
most adept one-man-bands around today. His piano playing on‘“A Letter from the Shelter” strikes a fine balance between classical and
rock without being threatening to either style. Drums, guitars, and synthesizers are played competently throughout, and when the part is
out of Carey’s range, he enlists one of the several musicians who make cameo appearances on the L.P. Carey’s singing
is limited, and a trifle flat, but he manages to carry the opera through with a minimal amount of incident.
The drama of Pink World is its most admirable feature. The music glides slowly along at ground level, only to
soar suddenly and then return to the original level in a nose dive. The music, with all its aerobatics, never
crashes. This album is not for everyone. In fact, it’s hardly right for anyone. But just about everyone should find
a copy, get out the lyric sheet and sit down to enjoy it like a good experimental film.

College Bowl Teams Prepare For Playoffs
By TIM WAPLES

Twelve of this year’s twenty-four intramural College Bowl teams played their fifth and last game of the year Monday night.
Actually, that’s not exactly right, because some of those teams are now looking to the playoffs, which will begin in
January.

All but two of the eight playoff positions have been determined; only in the National League East is the playoff
picture still in doubt. A tough three-way battle is raging between the Thundering Amoebi (4-1), Relentless Picnic (4-0), and Les
Idiots Savants (3-1). The Amoebi have completed their regular season; the Picnic and the Idiots will play each other in
their final match after Christmas. Things got really complicated as a result of the Amoebi’s 150-140 overtime victory against the
Idiots. With a loss meaning their elimination, the Amoebi battled to a 140-140 tie at the end of the second
half. Senior John Peeples came through to answer the second overtime tossup for the victory. If the Picnic beats the
Idiots after the break, Picnic and Amoebi make the playoffs. If the Idiots win, then all three teams will be
4-1, and the two teams which have scored the most points in all their games will advance. In that respect,
the Idiots and the Amoebi have the upper hand.

In another big match, the Fighting Catatonics clinched an AL West playoff berth by smashing the Neon Gerbils. The Catatonics,
led by senior Bill “Abuse” Crone and sophomore Tom Ridenhour, made the playoffs despite inheriting two forfeits from a defunct
franchise. The Catatonics are really 3-0 and ready for the playoffs.

The rest of the week brought ups and downs. The Absolute Values narrowly missed pulling off the embarrassment of the
year against Relentless Picnic, losing by just 15 points in the final minute. Freshman Mark Chen led an inspiring second-half
comeback by First Yeast Belch which just fell short against Get Out of the Way. Get jumped off to a
big first-half lead, then never got around to scoring in the second half. Get veteran senior Tim McGaughey suggested a
possible name change based on their performance: Sludge Out of the Way. Get will get another chance to show their
real stuff in the playoffs; First Yeast Belch will have to “wait till next year” — or at least until
tryouts for the varsity team.

The Faculty Wives upped their record to 2-3 by intimidating Buzzwiser into forfeiting. The Wives attributed their success to a
refusal to wear makeup to College Bowl matches. They are quick to point out an impressive aspect of their record:
they are 2-0 against teams that did not show up.

The Match of the Century was definitely not in the Conference Room at 8 p.m., where Surrogate Mothers whipped Otter
Limits 150-55. Gomez had nothing to do with it, but the Mothers’ sophomore stalwarts held the team in good stead.
Limits’ captain sophomore Chris “Otter” Sullivan explained it best: “They were in our face.”

CHRISTMAS SPECIAL NOW THRU DECEMBER 31
MONDAYS 1-7 MEMBERSHIP FEES
VHS & BETAS OVER 620 MOVIES IN STOCK
VCR RENTAL MACHINES AVAILABLE
Cathy’s Bookswap/VIDEO
SUN. 1-6 MON. 1-7 TUES.-SAT. 10-7
892-3165 HWY 115 CORNELIUS
