4 Friday, October 12, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Davidson Students Participate In Vaccine Study

By DAVID VAN PELT

With the help of 93 Davidson students, Dr. James Parke of Charlotte Memorial has completed a “very positive” study of the effectiveness of a new vaccine. Davidson students last spring received $50 each to be inoculated with a weakened dose of Haemophilus influenzae type B bacterium, which causes meningitis, bone and joint infections, and other diseases in infants and young children. Parke measured the antibody response in the students.

According to Parke, Associate Chairman of the Pediatrics Department at Charlotte Memorial Hospital, “we know that the vaccines do stimulate appropriate antibody responses and that the vaccine is safe to use.” Parke said the study was introduced at a bacteria vaccine conference last month at the National Institute of Health in Bethesda, Md. He said Davidson students received “appropriate mention” for their part in the study.

Parke divided the student volunteers into five groups, in which each participant received two injections and gave four blood samples. Four of these received different amounts of Haemophilus influenzae conjugated to tetanus toxoid, and one received pneumococcus 6A vaccine.

Students For A Better America To Organize

By LEE WHITE

“The possibilities are endless,” says senior Tony Holt about the organization Students For A Better America. Holt, head of the College Republicans, wants to establish a chapter of the national organization at Davidson. Promoting free enterprise stands as the nonpartisan group’s main goal, Holt said. It seeks to enhance an understanding of businesses and corporations and their functions, he added. The organization is a non-profit foundation with chapters on approximately 30 college campuses.

Holt said he views the group as an opportunity to bridge the gap between students and corporations, which is his key interest in Students For A Better America. According to Holt, Students For A Better America supports a responsible and cost-effective military. It also advocates family values. Another concern is “more efficient government,” Holt said. The group favors a balanced budget, he said, but not a constitutional amendment requiring one.

The national organization provides a concept and information to campus groups, Holt said. However, he said, the Davidson group would not have to follow specific directions from the national organization. The group could invite speakers on topics other than business-related concerns, he said. The effectiveness of the group, Holt said, depends on student involvement and ideas.

Holt said he learned about Students For A Better America while working in Washington, D.C. To spark interest in the group, he put up fliers in Chambers presenting opinions on issues such as the Social Security system. David Steadman, head of the Steadman Corporation in Asheboro, N.C. provided the fliers. Holt contacted Steadman, among others, this summer to solicit ideas for the new organization.

Holt is presently the only member of the group. To increase student involvement, he said he would like to sponsor several speakers this spring. He estimated that a good speakers’ series would cost about $20,000. He hopes to raise money from businessmen, friends, and alumni. Donations to the group are tax-deductible, he said. Eventually, Holt hopes for funding from the student activities tax council.

Holt said the program would benefit businesses by giving them student feedback in discussions. He said students would get an opportunity to make contacts in the business world. One idea Holt has in mind is a newsletter, providing a forum for businessmen and students to correspond. He emphasized, however, that the group’s concerns need not be solely business-related. Holt called the group “very positive and upbeat.” He plans to proceed with organizing a Students For A Better America chapter here after the Nov. 6 election.Parke said the vaccine also produces an antibody response to Haemophilus influenzae. The antibody response of those injected with a double dose of Haemophilus was not significantly greater than with a normal injection, which Parke said showed that the antibody response was at its maximum with a 50 mcg injection. The antibody response was not as great, he said, with the pneumococcus injection, which disproved the need for the pneumococcus vaccine.

None of the 93 volunteers discontinued the program completely, though Parke said eight students experienced such an adverse reaction to the first injection that they did not receive a second one. These students continued to give blood samples and received the $50 fee, Parke said.

“I was sick for about two days just from the initial injection, which was one of the lowest ones,” junior Scott Purdy said, who did not receive a second inoculation. Most students experienced a mild reaction to the bacterium. “I had a slight fever, but other than that I had no problem with it at all,” sophomore Fred Higgins said. “I’m glad I did it.”

Sigma Alpha Epsilon pledges used the project as a fund-raising drive for the fraternity. Sophomore Fletcher Fairey, who directed the drive, said approximately 20 SAE pledges joined the program, raising approximately $1,000 for the fraternity. Though the money “might have been the primary motive,” he said, “we realized this was something that was helpful in its own right.” He said the fraternity members have not yet decided what to do with the money.

Parke reported a disappointing turnout for the final blood sample this fall. He visited the campus Oct. 2 and 3, and said 26 students did not appear for a blood sample. Parke cited the summer layoff and his decision to pay the volunteers last spring as possible reasons for the poor attendance. He called and sent letters to those failing to appear during his first visit this fall and returned yesterday for a make-up visit. Any students who missed yesterday’s visit, he said, should contact him at Charlotte Memorial Hospital (331-3156).

Because of the vaccines’ promising results on adults, Parke said, testing will soon begin on children, the results of which he expects to have before next summer. Testing on infants would follow, he said, and if successful, the vaccine would be used in a defined community such as Mecklenburg County, which tested a similar but more limited vaccine in 1975-76.

Subscribe to THE DAVIDSONIAN
$12 for 28 issues, third class; $23 for 28 issues, first class.
Send a check or money order to:
The Davidsonian
P. O. Box 219
Davidson, NC 28036

MANAGE YOUR CAREER
At the University of Rochester's Graduate School of Management, you can manage your career with a highly respected M.B.A. With our wide variety of financial aid and loan programs, you can manage your finances, too. So, take charge, and manage your way to a top-quality management education.

SEE OUR REPRESENTATIVE
Our representative will be at your placement office Nov. 2, 9:00 am-11:30 am

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CALL TOLL FREE:
From outside NY state call: 1-800-621-0095
From within NY State call: 1-800-462-0073
Call toll free during these hours:
Monday - Friday 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m.
Tuesday 5:00 p.m. - 10:00 p.m.
Saturday 10:00 a.m.- 2:00 p.m.

THE DRESSER
“‘The Dresser’ gives two splendid actors, Tom Courtenay and Albert Finney, a chance to strut their stuff. Courtenay offers a perfectly polished performance. Subtle observation and marvelously controlled invention mark his work. Finney is a revelation.”
—Richard Schickel, TIME MAGAZINE

THE UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER GRADUATE SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
Rochester, NY 14627

“Triumphant. My favorite film of the year. Be sure not to miss it.”
—Jeffrey Lyons, SNEAK PREVIEWS

Any undergraduate major can qualify you as an M.B.A. candidate.