6 Friday, April 6, 1984/The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

‘Wall Of Sound’ Meets Phil Collins In Twins
By STEVE MANK

The Thompson Twins do not seem to do much besides cause a big stir wherever they go. Lately, every time
they make a single, the fans love it, the critics love it, it tops the British charts, does reasonably well
on ours, begins to slip, and then they put out a new single. Sort of like an English Michael Jackson
or something.

The combo of two men and one woman (who are not even twins, much less related) started out not knowing
what direction in particular they were taking. They knew they were rather unique, but not much beyond that. They had
their experimental period, their punk period, their romantic period, their reggae period, and their African tribal jungle rhythm period. Not
only that, but they could not decide how many people they wanted, sometimes having as many as seven members plus
a bunch of folks from the audience bangin’ on hubcaps and stuff.

All of a sudden, Tom Bailey, Alannah Currie, and Joe Leeway found a direction for their music to take. They
started by directing themselves away from the rest of the band and continued by incorporating the blaring delicacy of synthesizers
to the Jamaican and African rhythms they had toyed with before. Their style is definitely electronic—in fact, the only instruments
they incorporate to any great degree that are not electronic are their own voices. Their songs are basically genre clichés
if anything. “Hold Me Now” is a love song; “Love on Your Side” is a big production with horns and
such; “Tears” is oriental. Their production is a 1980s “Wall of Sound” (a la Phil Spector) with a heavy emphasis
on percussion (a la Phil Collins).

The Twins' tunes are catchy, but some may argue that they are annoyingly so. The lyrics are often embittered cries
for unity which, to the chagrin of some, tend to be too polished and too pre-programmed without enough spontaneity. The
conflicts a few may have with the Thompson Twins do nothing to sway the thousands of fans that guarantee that
just about every show they play will sell out. It will take a lot of dissenters to stop the Thompson
Twins from making a stir.

McDonald Readies Herself For Plott Scholar Recital
By IDA PHILLIPS and ROSS HOLT

Pianist Laura McDonald, who music department Chairman Wilmer Welsh called the “finest young performer at Davidson,” will perform Monday night
in the second annual Plott Festival. The festival is designed to raise money for the Plott Memorial Scholarship fund. McDonald
is the first recipient of the scholarship.

Welsh placed the Plott performance on a “professional recital level.” McDonald will play selections ranging from Bach and Mozart to
the modern composer Biscardi. “Physically, I’m ready for it,” McDonald said. She has memorized all but one of the selections
she will play. Though she has the technical aspects of the music down, she said, she is “trying to shift
from intellectually looking at the music to a more instinctual feeling for it.”

McDonald was named Plott Scholar in December 1983, but the official scholarship program will not begin for two years. Welsh
explained that the program has been delayed because the music department and others involved could not “get all the problems
ironed out or all the money raised.” Welsh hopes that future recipients of the scholarship will be chosen after participating
in a musical competition at Davidson. “It would be nice to have a big festival and competition and make it
a nice, festive occasion.” The participants would be judged by a chairman advisory board. Oboist Joseph Robinson, baritone William Workman
(both Davidson alumni), and conductor Zubin Mehta will serve as judges or help select the advisory board. Robinson, Workman, and
Mehta participated in last year’s festival, which initiated the scholarship program and kicked off the fund-raising campaign.

McDonald was not chosen after a competition be-cause the necessary funds were not available. Welsh feels McDonald’s fine performance, both
on and off the stage, epitomizes the ideal Plott Scholar. “We are not interested in attracting students who should be
at a conservatory, but the type of student who is a fine musician and is interested in a liberal arts
education,” he said. “Some people eat, sleep, and breathe music. People like that should be at a conservatory. We are
looking for someone who can use a liberal arts education to enrich their music and their lives.” McDonald said the
scholarship has provided her with “opportunities monetary and otherwise to study music outside of Davidson.” It allows such things as
study with other professors at other schools during the academic year and study at camps in the summer, she said.
The Plott Memorial Scholarship was developed in memory of former Davidson music department Chairman Donald Plott. The recital is scheduled
for 8:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Local Hero Revels In Life’s Simple Pleasures
By MATT MORRIS

It is a hot Houston day and MacIntyre (Peter Riegert) has just plugged his mind into elevator music as he
ascends off the streamlined Texas turf in a sleek jet plane. His destination: Scotland. His purpose: to convince the folk
of a beach town that with the help of a few huge oil plants, the town and its inhabitants could
become rich. Thus, this week’s superb pop film, Local Hero begins, and through director Bill Forsyth’s exquisite eye for detail,
the jump from solid steel U.S.A. to rugged Scotland is perhaps the most overwhelming transition since Dorothy left Kansas for
Oz. In this faraway land, animals, children, old people and punks run joyously throughout life, with hardly a care in
the world. They are living on a fantasy island that appears real. Sheer enjoyment of life’s simplistic pleasures — love,
health and freedom — is Local Hero’s message, and the movie, never stooping to sentimentality, remains sweet without being gooey.

Burt Lancaster heads an excellent cast of familiar foreign faces as Felix Hopper, an eccentric Howard Hughes-type oil millionaire with
an eye on Scottish black gold. Hopper dispatches the sexually frustrated junior businessman “Mac” MacIntyre, who has a tad of
Scottish blood, to the homeland as a kind of Greek-bearing-gifts. MacIntyre need not worry about salesmanship, however, for the townspeople
are as materialistically enthusiastic as he is, and encourage the Hopper organization’s entrepreneurship. The big surprise here is that Forsyth
doesn’t make any ecological statement; as plans for the installment of the “earth-sucking rigs” are being set up, the movie
reveals a harmony, a kinship the townsfolk of this delightful sanctuary will feel regardless of progress. And in Local Hero
even the “industry” isn’t all bad — the potentially, and predictably, money-hungry Hopper turns out to be, like everyone else
in the film, an incurable romantic with his eyes to the stars.

It is this constant twisting of convention, matched by the film’s always charming veneer that makes Local Hero irresistible fun.
The Scottish landscape is filled with loud green, blue and grey colors, but under cinematographer Ward Redhop’s command the tone
is light and like the story, the scenery rings with pleasure. The acting throughout is uniformly marvelous. Lancaster’s Hopper reeks
of delicious eccentricity — he is a mad man who believes in the power of Virgo and the electric light
bulb. Peter Riegert gives a nicely understated performance as “Mac,” a disciple who can only bow down to his guru/boss
Hopper, and in an enjoyable Hollywood fashion falls in love with the knock-out Stella played by Jennifer Black. Local Hero’s
wandering point of view lingers on minor characters long enough to familiarize the viewer with almost everyone in the town,
and like the movie, the cast becomes one enormous good friend. You won’t see me at the movie on Friday
— I'll be on a plane to Scotland, over the rainbow. Go forth! Relieve anxiety! See Local Hero!
