6

Friday, May 11, 1984 / The Davidsonian

— Music

By STEVE MANK

Psychedelic Furs Become Best in Genre; Little Else

With the release of their self-titled debut L.P., the Psychedelic Furs quietly ushered in the neo-psychedelic movement in pop music. Although far from The Strawberry Alarm Clock or The Vanilla Fudge, the new music featured the same wall of sound, lazy melody lines, obtuse lyrics, and air of mystery that identified the old.

In addition to all that, the six-member Furs, led by the growling, accented vocals of Richard Butler, had a charming capacity for slipping from slow, contemplative, minimalist fantasies to crashing, rhythmic dance movements without missing a beat. Their first two albums, under the pristine production of Steve Lillywhite, were among the first to feature a high percussion mix against a lush background of guitars and synthesizers. Finally, with the release of the Todd Rundgren-produced Forever Now and the single “Love My Way” and a touring band that included a saxophonist and a cellist who played on every song, the Furs, to a very modest degree, conquered the states.

Now, two years after the release of Forever Now, the band’s follow-up album, Mirror Moves, is at last out. The group, who once prided themselves on size, have trimmed themselves down to the very core — Richard Butler singing, brother Tim on bass, and John Ashton on guitar. All others on the new record are session men including the producer, Keith Forsey, drumming.

Mirror Moves is certainly a far cry from the sound the Furs used to sport, but many of the better qualities have been retained. The single, “The Ghost in You,” is a strange excursion through a love’s most curious, permanent, and enthralling qualities. All the musicians (in spite of the sorely missed drumming of ex-Fur Vince Ely) are in top form except for the ever-present shortcomings in the bass-playing. “Heaven” accentuates the band’s excellent ability to reach for the ethereal without losing the profane. But the band’s newest effort, however good, pales next to earlier works. The music of the Psychedelic Furs seemed always to be progressing toward a certain end, but there was always spontaneity. Here the rough spots, which weren't without a charm of their own, are smoothed out, creating a sheen, sometimes bland final product. Where once the band could effortlessly shift from slow to quick, bare to lush, such changes now seem deliberate and at times contrived.

However bland the album may seem compared to past ones, it has its moments — more moments in fact than most released these days. The main problem is that while once they were harbingers to a new wave, the new wave is now upon them and there is nothing left to harbinge. Is there really anything wrong with finding your niche and doing all you can within that niche before moving on to a new one? The primary fault in Mirror Moves is that even though it is a great record, it is far better to create revolutionary music than to create the best of a genre revolutionized four years ago.

Winner will receive first prize; compete on CBS television

1985 MISS NORTH CAROLINA-TEEN USA PAGEANT

The official preliminary to the MISS TEEN USA PAGEANT NO PERFORMING TALENT REQUIRED

You can win fame and fortune as North Carolina's representative in the nationally televised MISS NORTH CAROLINA-TEEN USA PAGEANT for 1985. Entrants will be judged on beauty, poise, and personality. The Miss North Carolina-TEEN USA Pageant will be held at the Coliseum in Greensboro during the weekend of August 24th. To qualify, applicants must be between 14 and 17 years old as of May 1, 1984, single, never been married or a parent.

1985 MISS NORTH CAROLINA-USA PAGEANT

The official preliminary to the MISS USA and MISS UNIVERSE PAGEANT NO PERFORMING TALENT REQUIRED

You can win fame and fortune as North Carolina’s representative in the MISS NORTH CAROLINA-USA PAGEANT. The search is on to find Miss North Carolina-USA for 1985. Entrants will be judged on beauty, poise, and personality. The Miss North Carolina-USA Pageant will be held Saturday, August 25 in the Coliseum in Greensboro, North Carolina. To qualify, applicants must be between 17 and 25 as of May 1, 1984, single, never married or a parent.

PLEASE SEND ME INFORMATION ON:

( ) MISS North Carolina Teen/USA ( ) MISS North Carolina/USA

(PLEASE PRINT) Name Birth Date Street Address County City State Phone TEL-AIR INTERESTS, INC. 1755 N. E. 149th STREET MIAMI, FLORIDA 33181

If this doesn't pertain to you, please pass it on to a friend!

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’™ bring along this money-savin’ coupon.

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours only at participating Hardee's Restaurants through May 31, 1984. © 1983 Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.

REGULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at participating Hardee's Restaurants through May 31, 1984. © 1983 Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.