Friday, May 4, 1984 / The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Hash House Harriers: Old “Hound And Hare” Game Gains Popularity

By ANDY BARRON

They trot forward in a small pack of about ten runners calling out meaningless sets of words like “on on”
and “on up.” They are dressed as mild-mannered joggers except for the excessive stains of mud on their clothes. Every
now and then one of them will sound a bugle and the whole pack will come together and move forward.
Ever witnessed this sight? Ever wondered who those people were? Well, the answer is Davidson’s youngest, craziest, and most disorganized
outdoor activity, the Hash House Harriers and Harriettes. Established February 5, 1983 by a handful of novices led by one
experienced “hasher,” the club has attracted new members this year. Now over 30 Davidson students have participated in at least
one “hash.”

“Hashing is more than a sport,” commented Harbert. “Hashing is more like a philosophy, that is, you have to be
laid back and enjoy going crazy and having a good time. Hashing isn’t competitive, it’s just a release.”

The Hash House Harriers is actually an international organization with a proud history. It was originated by British colonials who
had nothing else to do. The activity acquired its name from the Selangor Club Chambers, affectionately called the “Hash House”
due to the quality of food served. After World War II, the activity spread and now boasts clubs across the
world. Hashing migrated from Malaysia to Davidson in the form of sophomore John Harbert, who lived in Indonesia for 13
years and has run over 250 hashes. Harbert introduced sophomores Frank Roberts and Griff Elder to hashing last year and
the three have been prime movers of the Davidson club.

Hashes are based on the old “hound and hare” game. They are generally three to five miles long and start
in front of Chambers. Before the hash begins, two members, called hares, must go out and set the course. The
course is marked by handfuls of flour approximately every 30 yards. The object is to follow the marks wherever they
may lead. Woods and creeks are favored obstacles, but other obstructions have been known to come into play.

“I’ve run in everything from small canyons in Malaysia to kudzu in North Carolina,” said Harbert. “A great hash we
ran here was when we crossed a big creek on a wire bridge. The better the hare, the better the
hash.”

In addition to the obstacles of nature, human ingenuity and deception make a hash more like a safari than a
jog through the park. The infamous false trail, the bane of the hasher, is what turns three-mile trails into five-mile
trails. Yet it is this that makes hashing what it is. The way a hash works is something like this:
the group follows spots of flour until it arrives at a checkpoint and the trail goes in several directions. The
group must then fan out and determine the correct trail. This is where the system of calls comes in. “Checking”
means searching for the trail. “On up” means the trail is up ahead and “on on” means the trail has
been found. The final call is the dreaded “falsie” or “on back” which means the group has followed the wrong
trail and must now go back and find the right one.

False trails also make it unnecessary to be a goodRunner. The runners in better condition tend to run faster but
do all the work finding trails. The slower runners thus cover a shorter distance since they very rarely stray from
the correct path. When the run is finished, the hash is only 50 percent complete. The post-run fellowship is an
equally important part of hashing. It is here that new runners are initiated. A “down-down” serves both of these functions.
A “down-down” involves chugging a beer from the club’s pewter cup to the following song:

“Here’s to Andy, he’s true blue,
He’s a hasher through and through
He’s a pisspot, so they say,
Tried to go to heaven but he went the other way.
Drink it down, down, down, . . .”

Some violations include running silently, short-cutting, training specifically for hashing, and not having done a down-down in a while. “There
are a few things that make a good hash,” said Harbert. “One, the group stays together. Two, lots of mud
and a little barbed wire. Third, and most important, not running out of beer.”

Hashing, for all its hazards and craziness, is virtually an injury-free sport. This is due to cautious running and the
loose attitude involved. Serious runners are only allowed if they can show a relaxed side and go crazy with those
that never run.

By ANDY BARRON

Davidson sophomore Janice Evans will represent the one-year-old Davidson equestrian team in the Division I National Championships this weekend in
Harrisburg, PA. Evans will compete in the walk and trot categories.

“Going to nationals is both exciting and unexpected,” Evans said. “Nationals has been a distant thought since September, when we
started. However, I never expected to go. I’m really looking forward to it.”

Evans qualified for the nationals three weekends ago by winning first place in the advanced walk-trot class at the Region
IX Intercollegiate Championship Horse Show held in Columbia, SC.

By JEAN WEBB

Saturday the men’s track team competed in the Southern Conference Championships at Marshall University. The Cats could scrape together only
two points in the team scoring. Nevertheless, freshman powerhouse Greg Foreman performed impressively in the 800-meter run. Setting a new
Davidson record of 1:56.2, he edged the previous record of 1:56.8 set by Frank Ivey in 1983.

Janice Evans

Evans To Compete In National Championships

The regular season, which stretched from tryouts in September to the Davidson Classic in April, served as the qualifying standard
for regionals. Evans earned enough points during the season to qualify for the regionals.

“At team meetings all year long we were constantly reminded that regionals were coming up,” said Evans, “but I never
seriously thought I’d wind up at Nationals. I’m excited about the caliber of competition and I’m hoping to do well.”

Evans has served as the equestrian team secretary for the 1983-84 season and has been riding under the direction of
coach Nancy Hoffman since the fall of 1983.

Track Team Falters In Conference Running

The speedy 4x100-meter relay team which has thrilled Davidson fans all season, also broke the College record Saturday. Junior Jim
Walker, senior Paul Fry, sophomore Jay Braun, and sophomore Eric McClarty finished the relay in 43.4, breaking the old record
of 44.1 set in 1978.

Both the men’s and the women’s teams will race tomorrow at the Johnson C. Smith Relays in Charlotte. This will
be the last meet of the spring for the Wildcats.
