Friday, April 6, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Laughlin Seeks To Represent Student Opinion

Editor's note: Davidsonian news editor Dan Voorhis interviewed newly-elected SGA President John Laughlin last Tuesday. Here we present portions of
that interview, edited for clarity.

The Davidsonian: First off, how do you see the role as SGA president; do you see any major issues coming
up on which you will be working?

Laughlin: I do think there are a few issues which are going to need attention by the SGA. I think
that athletics is a major concern that a lot of students are worried about and are thinking about. They are
concerned about the role of non-revenue sports at Davidson and the amount of emphasis [those sports] get from the athletic
department and from the trustees. They are also worried about the proportion of money that is going to both the
revenue and non-revenue sports. Maybe when the new president arrives there will be some headway made as to what’s happening.
I have talked briefly with Sandy Carnegie, and he said they are definitely going to try to do something to
step up activity in our non-revenue.

The Davidsonian: What is your position on athletics and the football program?

Laughlin: I’m going to try to take, as much as possible, the opinions of the student body to the various
people involved in athletics. What I get from people I’ve been talking with is that they would like to see
more money, more emphasis put into the non-revenue sports. I don’t want to say “minor” sports because I think every
athlete that plays soccer, baseball, track in no way should be seen as inferior to the major revenue sports.

The Davidsonian: Do you think that would be a wise thing considering that the revenue sports do in fact pay
for themselves?

Laughlin: The question here is, does there have to be a trade-off — can a non-revenue sport be strengthened without
hurting the revenue sports. The students think, [as seen in] the athletic survey, that there has been too much emphasis
placed on the revenue sports. The trustees are going to consider that.

The Davidsonian: You don’t think it would be wise to move down to another conference?

Laughlin: No, you run into problems if you move out of the Southern Conference. You lose things like television revenue
and revenue from tournament play that the Southern Conference gives.

The Davidsonian: But doesn’t that make football sort of a “whipping boy”?

Laughlin: I don’t think so; I don’t think the players think of themselves as being whipping boys at all. I
don’t think the coaching staff feels that way. I think that with just a little work, our football team can
be competitive in the Southern Conference.

The Davidsonian: A little work, what do you mean by that?

Laughlin: Well, I’m not a coach, but I’d like to think that we have been better in the Southern Conference
in the past, and we could be in the future. We went to the Tangerine Bowl in 1969 or ’70,
and at the same time we were in the play-offs in the NCAA tournament in basketball. Both those programs were
strong, considering Davidson’s size. I wouldn’t want to rule out the hope that Davidson could be that way again.

The Davidsonian: Let’s try another problem. One of the biggest is the social scene, Patterson Court, and self-selection. What are
your opinions of that?

Laughlin: I see the SGA’s role now is to keep the freshmen informed as well as possible about what the
situation is. Right now the way that Patterson Court deals with freshmen — the way self-selection is centered — is
not exactly the way it’s written down. Although the self-selection committee, which was established last year, has been doing a
lot to help freshmen become more

John Laughlin receives congratulations after being elected SGA president.aware of what the situation is, i.e., fraternities giving oral encouragements, not
being allowed to give oral discouragements, the process of shotgunning; none of these things are explicitly written down in the
college handbook.

The Davidsonian: Do you think it’s only a communication problem?

Laughlin: No, I don’t think that at all. I think this is an area where the SGA can help. Because
our power is limited, we can only give input into what decisions the administration and trustees may make about Patterson
Court. We can serve as a medium of student opinion, and we plan to do that when [President John] Kuykendall
takes over.

The Davidsonian: Should the system be changed somehow?

Laughlin: I think the situation now is pleasing the most people; you can’t please everybody all the time, but it’s
pleasing the most people the way it is right now.

Randy Stroud: I think that it would be worse if they tried to work the self-selection system in a different
way, if they tried to run either straight self-selection or swung the other way, and tried to give the fraternities
more privileges than they have now. I think that the fraternities have accepted what their role is now in Patterson
Court, the way they have to operate, and that they don’t try to get around it too much.

The Davidsonian: Do you foresee any further SGA action about Patterson Court besides educating freshmen?

Laughlin: [We are compiling] the presidential advisory paper on student issues which will be presented to Dr. Kuykendall when he
arrives in July, which covers the situation on Patterson Court among other things. And we've had reports submitted from the
president of the Patterson Court Council, Inter-fraternity Council, Patterson Court Study Committee, and the Self-Selection Committee about this. [These committees]
have been doing extensive work on trying to get a feel for what the students want, and in this way,
the SGA can help the students relay their opinions about Patterson Court and other issues to the powers that make
the decisions.

The Davidsonian: Have you had a chance to talk to Dr. Kuykendall at all?

Laughlin: I received a letter from him yesterday, and plan on meeting with him in the spring. We both expressed
a desire to get together in the spring and during the summer and talk about these things and get some
groundwork laid for working with issues next year.

The Davidsonian: Do you see the SGA as having any role in the problem of racial relations?

Laughlin: I think that we can be of help in a couple of ways. I'd like to see the SGA
working with the black members of the campus to see, from their perspective, what the situation is, what they’re feeling.
I think if we can help increase the awareness of certain tensions and problems between the races on campus, then
[the problem] will start working its way out. I think Davidson people are the kind of people who, once something
is brought to their attention, start thinking about it; once you start thinking about it, things will start to work
out.

The Davidsonian: Do you have any specific ideas on how that would happen?

Laughlin: The proposal has been brought up, and has been encouraged by the SGA, of having a committee which ties
in with the RACE committee [Racial Awareness Concerns Everyone]. We can coordinate [our work] with them and try to help
their activities in raising awareness on campus. I'd like to get in touch with the people in the BSC and
see what they want before we do anything, because we don’t want to do anything which would be counterproductive to
their goals.

FRIENDS DON'T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK

Order in advance—Wine & Beer by the case: Cost plus 10%
Keg beer: Cost plus 10%

Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St.-Davidson, N.C 28036
892-7521
