Friday, October 5, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Miscellany To Seek More Student Input
By LISA THOMAS

The newest issue of The Davidson Miscellany, the college’s literary magazine which publishes submissions from across the United States, has just been released. The current issue is the only one published for the academic year 1983-84. The double issue was released to eliminate a long-standing gap between cover and calendar date. Beginning with this fall’s edition, The Miscellany will once again publish two editions per year which will be released in the same term that they are compiled.

German professor Julius Winkler, faculty advisor and editor of The Miscellany, said he compiled the current issue himself because “the student editors disappeared” and never accepted any of the responsibilities. Sophomore John David Ramsey was appointed last spring as student editor of The Miscellany, but he did not assume his position until this fall. Ramsey said he intends to establish a board of student readers and to solicit student works for publication. In the current issue, only one entry was written by students currently enrolled at Davidson.

According to Winkler, in the past students have been encouraged by professors to submit their contest writings to Hobart Park, but “if we have two pieces of equal merit, we will publish the student’s piece.” Winkler hopes that more students will submit writings this year, but added, “we must keep our standards, and we can give no guarantees that they will be printed.”

The Miscellany has a unique feature that Hobart Park does not have, according to Winkler. Many colleges subscribe to the magazine and keep it in their libraries, providing more exposure for entries. Hobart Park, however, is only distributed on campus. The Miscellany was Davidson’s only literary magazine until 1978 when students established Hobart Park as an outlet for student creative writing. Winkler said originally, Hobart Park was established to provide a forum for “more topical issues. They were going to publish four or five issues per year on news stock. But the second editor got ambitious.” Copies of The Miscellany are available in the library.

Laughlin, Kuykendall Discuss Advisory Papers
By GINGER BROADDUS

The SGA Presidential Advisory Papers “are as diverse as the people who wrote them,” President John Kuykendall said. Kuykendall met with SGA President John Laughlin last Monday to discuss the recently completed papers. The purpose of the papers is to provide Kuykendall with background information on campus issues which the SGA considers most important. In their meeting, according to Laughlin, the two discussed the document thoroughly, with Laughlin “helping (Kuykendall) to understand [a] pretty clear, well-written” report. Laughlin hopes Kuykendall “will use it as a reference when it comes to making decisions.” The papers will “give him a start on student opinion,” he said. Kuykendall concurred: “They certainly can be a strategic piece of information on things I need to know before... I take action.” Laughlin considered it a constructive meeting. “We had a good discussion about the issues he was interested in.”

Neither believed that any single campus issue has the greatest priority. “Each issue is important,” Laughlin said. “The information which will probably be most useful for Dr. Kuykendall is that concerning Patterson Court.” Kuykendall said, “You need to know how it [Patterson Court] works before we can begin to improve it.” The race issue also demands a great deal of attention, they said.

Campus Political Groups
By BO TAYLOE

Several campus political committees have formed to support local, state, and national party platforms and candidates. Through Nov. 6, groups such as Hunt for Senate and the College Republicans will utilize leaflets, speakers, and open forums to highlight issues and candidates. The groups have a common goal: turning candidates into elected officials, and they will try to achieve that end, say group members, by informing students of the issues. “We want to bring out and introduce the principles and ideology of the Republican party and familiarize students with them,” College Republicans Chairman Tony Holt said. According to Holt, the College Republicans have between 45 and 50 members, making it Davidson’s largest student-political committee. Head of the College Democrats Bill Harmon said 30 students have joined his organization. Underclassmen compose the bulk of Holt’s group, while the opposite is true of the College Democrats.

Party organizations support an entire platform and allow members the freedom to choose which candidates and issues to support. The Libertarian Coalition, for example, seeks to focus more attention on the party’s platform than on a particular candidate. The brainchild of sophomore John Endler, the group is in its infancy. Endler said he wants...To use the fall election as a springboard to spark interest in the party, he hopes to reach students through weekly discussions examining the libertarian perspective on various political issues. A non-partisan group called Election ’84 has organized to aid students in registering to vote and to promote awareness of the election through discussions and speakers. In addition to these groups, several students have devoted their support to Dr. William Scott (above), a noted African and Afro-American historian who spoke here last Monday and Tuesday. His two talks centered on the apartheid nation of South Africa.

Classics Dept. Reworked After Departure, Retirement
By TED WILSON

The Classics department, with the addition of two new professors, now offers more opportunities for students, according to Chairman Dirk French. Professor George Labban, former chairman of the Classics department, retired last year, and Professor Mark Davies left to teach at Milton Academy, a prep-school near his boyhood home in Massachusetts. Professors Marianthe Colakis and Peter Corrigan joined the department this year.

Colakis said all three Classics professors will teach Greek and Latin (in translation and from the original language) and the survey and advanced classes. “Professors aren’t locked into certain courses,” she said. French, who will continue to teach Humanities, said the three new Classics professors will join the Humanities staff, but neither Colakis nor Corrigan will teach a Humanities section this fall.

French said the department will continue to offer the Classics Abroad program, but will not offer the program this year. Students can study in Greece and Italy through this program, which the department plans to offer in alternate years. Each Classics professor will rotate as seminar leader. French said the department now offers a major in Classical Civilization, which is separate from the Greek and Latin majors. “Last year was the first year it was offered,” he said. In the past, French said, some pre-law and pre-med students had taken enough courses for a Classical Civilization major, but it was not offered.

The department has also added a Sanskrit course, which will be offered for the first time this spring. Colakis said she is “interested in doing something with comparative literature,” and more courses may be added in the future. The course would center around “the classical tradition in modern Greek literature,” she said.

Senior Clare Eckert, a Greek major, said the department's changes “don't affect my major, as the requirements haven't changed and majors tend to work with the whole department. I think it’s great that someone can teach modern Greek,” and certify students in the language, she added.

Vice-President of Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty T.C. Price Zimmerman said the transition in the department has gone “very smoothly as far as I know. Dr. French and Dr. Labban had worked on the transition last year.” He said the enrollment in beginning Latin is at an all-time high. “We had to make an additional section to handle the load,” he said.

Eye November Election

Only one candidate. The Hunt for Senate committee has between 25 and 30 members, according to Chairman Liz Carlton. Heading the group with junior Frank Hobart, Carlton said “informing students what Jim is all about” is a primary goal. Yesterday, Governor Jim Hunt's wife visited Davidson. Today, members of the committee are participating in a run called the Student Spirit Relay, designed to attract college students to the Hunt campaign.

The College Republicans recently polled 300 students. Holt said the results show a balance between Democrats and Republicans with the scale tipping slightly toward the Republican side. One of the purposes of the poll, Holt said, is to identify and assist any favorable voter who needs help registering. The Republicans also publicized and arranged transportation for the Bush rally in Winston-Salem, N.C. last month and plan to attend President Ronald Reagan’s scheduled visit Monday in Charlotte. “Broadening the sphere of influence,” Holt said, is a goal underlying the group's efforts.

Much of the College Democrats’ energy is spent outside the campus, working with the Mecklenburg County Democrats in Charlotte. Students make “persuasion calls” for the Mondale campaign or “response calls” seeking volunteers among Democratic voters. The club campaigns primarily for congressional candidate D.G. Martin, gubernatorial candidate Rufus Edmisten, and Walter Mondale. Harmon added that they are still “waiting for the Mondale campaign to get off the ground.” The work of the College Democrats will not end in November, Harmon said. He has plans for “spreading out into other areas ... solidifying and organizing,” he said. Endler, too, said he does not see the Nov. 6 election as the end to his coalition, but rather the beginning. “The election is an opportune time to start,” he said.