8 Friday, March 16, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Irish Poet Captures Childhood Memories Of Love

By BRIAN BUTLER

Who knows why, but a pretty famous poet named Paul Muldoon, who belongs in Ireland (he’s from Belfast), read from
his poetry in the Morrison room Tuesday night. The room was too hot for the nearly 100 people who attended,
and its garishly bright lighting, combined with the heat, created a rigid atmosphere not unlike that of a Baptist church
in summer. And in this room many nodded, some sat as if entranced, dozens thought about dinner, and a few
drifted off while the Irish syllables baubled, bounced, and hung in midair.

“Why is this man here?” some might ask. He has published four volumes of poetry (New Weather, Mules, Why Brownlee
Left, and Quoof), the first by Faber in 1973 when he was but 21 years old. He is considered the
center of a new, young group of poets, the first to emerge from Ireland since the Age of Yeats, a
group which founded The Honest Ulsterman in 1968 and printed in it the poems of the teenage Muldoon. By now
(he is in his thirties, though he looks like a Davidson bohemian), Muldoon’s poems have appeared in Chicago Review, DAM
(Holland), Digraphe (France), Literary Review, London Review of Books, New Irish Writing, New Statesman, Pequod, The Times Literary Supplement, and
about everywhere else. England's Poetry Book Society named his most recent volume, Quoof, which was published in America by Wake
Forest University Press, their Autumn Choice.

At first thought, Muldoon’s poetry seems cast in the mold of the clear imagism of H.D. and W.C. Williams: the
poems’ surfaces appear to “rool” lightly through childhood memories, natural phenomena, and love-thought type pictures all realistically depicted through the
detail, the image standing but for itself. In “The Right Arm,” for instance, one of the first poems Muldoon read,
the poet remembers a shop his father kept in the small town of Eglish, a shop which, as Muldoon explained,
carried a little bit of everything, including several types of candy more often stolen by children than sold to the
store’s weekly customer. The poem lists the store’s products, describing the three-year-old poet's greedy arm “plunged... into the sweet-jar /
for the last bit of clove-rock” and seeming to be the mere pictorial memorial it portends to be. But, typically
of Muldoon, the last line or phrase transforms all that has formerly transpired from image to parallel symbol, and from
past remembered to some vaguely timeless state of knowing all times at once: “The Eglish sky was its own stained-glass
vault / and my right arm was sleeved in glass / that has yet to shatter.”

Paul Muldoon reads his verse

This movement from apparent simplicity to metaphysical prolixity is also common to Muldoon’s poems. Very often one finds initial bearings
easy to reach, subsequent steps a bit harder to take, and final leaps not clarifying but startling, yet still sounding
too meaningful to ignore. Sometimes this indirect closing vagueness can be used for a direct, though time-delayed effect. “Truce” concerns
an imaginary (obviously) make-up between the great feuding powers of the world. “It begins with one or two soldiers,” says
the poet, and “All stop when one stops.” Soldiers are pictured sharing cigarettes and secrets. An old German song is
“passed round.” The poem’s comment solidifies in a single line, which calls the soldiers “Friday night lovers exchanging names and
addresses.” The several layers of import to be found here emerge a step at a time. One can almost hear
the audience’s response “dropping slow” through several stages of recognition.

War is cheap. Living in Belfast must make one aware of violence: Muldoon’s poems are filled with lurking violence appearing
in connection with the most unexpected things. For him, it seems, violence comes as naturally to men as sex, sleep,
and the building of superhighways. It has shown itself through the ages to be as inextricable from the life force,
from vitality, as to be almost beautiful itself. “The Sightseers,” a poem about the Muldoon family’s Sunday afternoon drives, blends
beauty and violence so that they are almost indistinguishable. The poem tells that on this special Sunday, the family and
“Uncle Pat” were not to “visit some graveyard — one diedof shingles, one of fever, another’s knees turned to jelly
— but the brand-new roundabout . . . .” A roundabout is what we would call a traffic circle. As
the family drives, Uncle Pat was telling us how the B-Specials had stopped him one night somewhere near Ballygawley and
smashed his bicycle and made him sing the Sash and curse the Pope of Rome. They held a pistol so
hard against his forehead there was still the mark of an O when he got home. After Muldoon read this
line, no one in that ugly Morrison Room made a noise. If you look inside a theater after the credits
have passed, there will be two or three people left seated, staring at the blank screen. These people are Paul
Muldoon’s audience.

Hitchcock’s Vertigo: Great Director’s Greatest Film
By MATT MORRIS

By the strictest definition, a mystery is a piece of fiction dealing with profound and inexplicable events or a character's
qualities. Alfred Hitchcock's Vertigo, now playing at Southpark in Charlotte, certainly fulfills all these parameters, but one by one. The
first half of the film solidly captures all the ingredients that make for profound and inexplicable events. James Stewart, a
San Francisco detective plagued by the title’s height-fearing ailment, is hired to follow a woman who seems to be haunted
by a long-dead nineteenth-century aristocrat. Simple enough, and the viewer is treated to dizzying shots of Stewart as he shadows
co-star Kim Novak through lush California scenery. This is just the beginning, however; a red herring, a joke on the
audience. By the time The End appears, much more will have transpired, not only in the plot (childishly ludicrous), but
in the eccentric, obsessive world called human nature. Vertigo is a complete mystery, for while what goes on in the
physical world is often inexplicable, what really provokes (and frightens) is the inner sentiment of all men which Hitchcock’s probing
camera reveals.

Mind you, the characters in Vertigo are not “real.” Like the incredibly phony sets, Stewart, Novak, and Barbara Bel Geddes
are all portraying caricatures. In fact, the movie opens with the literal construction of an entity — the camera zooms
in to kiss an enormous set of lips, cuts to a close-up of a pair of eyes, then microscopically explores
a single eye itself. It enters the retina and rummages around in the window of the soul. Yet the viewer
never finds out who these body parts belong to — there is never a complete picture to reveal a gender,
identity, or anything. Similarly, the caricatures in Vertigo are never completely understood. Stewart’s emotions are as unpredictable as everything else
in this film. It is impossible to get a complete picture of any character. Instead, as the opening montage symbolizes,
the audience is treated to a series of sideways glances which seem close, but in fact are ambiguous.

Hitchcock was often criticized for being too mechanical with his actors and afraid to show emotion in his works. If
Vertigo was directed by a machine-man, then I recommend this approach. He has elicited complex, rough, emotional performances from everyone
in the film. Namby-pamby Stewart gives the performance of his career showing a sane man going nuts. Through the piercing
contrasts of photographer Robert Burks, Stewart’s eyes turn liquid red, filled with Satanic passions. Novak’s trance-like acting is so perfect,
her lithe beauty so goddess-like (she rises from the San Francisco bay at one point, reminiscent of a wet Diana),
that you’ll forget any visions of Grace Kelly, who was originally slated for the role.

The script is ridiculous, though. To reveal too much would spoil a great movie. The projected backgrounds are obvious, and
the cardboard sets look like cardboard, but Vertigo’s tone demands this stilted style. Vertigo is a fantasy in which nothing
is real. Even time itself, that most concrete convention in film, is contorted and twisted until it makes no sense.
Vertigo, a great director’s greatest film, broke new ground in 1958 because it asked the viewer to accept film as
an abstract. Like any other art (music, painting, sex), Vertigo is a masterpiece because though its format is starkly representational,
the emotions are what count, and they ring true.
