Friday, October 19, 1984 / The Davidsonian 7

The Great Escape Presents Appealing Heroes

By CRAIG DETWEILER

Can a film be both fine and fun? The Great Escape answers that cinematic question. With a mucho macho cast, picturesque scenery, and rousing plot, The Great Escape offers an extremely satisfying Saturday night at the movies.

Set in World War II Germany, John Sturges’ film portrays the planning and execution of — that’s right — you guessed it, a great escape. A divergent assortment of Allied prisoners combine intellect and agility to pull off a massive breakout. Subtleties of character and plot are not the issue in an action-adventure war movie. Kinetic energy and audience response serve as the prime objectives of The Great Escape.

The film meets its modest goals, as one comes to cheer the allies and boo the inhuman Nazis. Given the anti-heroes of modern cinema, like Dirty Harry Callahan, it’s uplifting to be able to identify and fully support the good guys.

Made in 1963, the film represents a successful genre in post-war cinematic history — the beefcake boys breakout. Similar yarns like Stalag 17, The Guns of Navarone, and The Dirty Dozen feature loads of handsome, muscular allies battling bad little Germans.

The Great Escape owes its immediate influence to the virile vigilantes of The Magnificent Seven, a John Sturges directed western starring Steve McQueen, Charles Bronson, and James Coburn. Adapted from the Japanese classic The Seven Samurai, The Magnificent Seven satisfied an audience demand for pure, tough teams of heroes pooling resources to overcome a greater foe.

Perhaps, the patriotic fervor surrounding the Seven films tapped into a latent fear of Communism. Moviegoers wanted to see just, reformed heroes working together to vanquish evil foes. Obviously, if tough guys joining forces succeeds at the box-office once, it can do it again (and again).

The Great Escape transcends the standard action-adventure conventions because of its wealth of leading men. It works because the audience has so many studly, appealing heroes to choose from, at least one must win the viewers’ allegiance. McQueen reigns as the coolest of the Americans, especially in the baseball throwing incident. Charles Bronson's claustrophobic P.O.W. shows character dimensions rarely revealed in subsequent performances. James Garner is just plain bad, and Richard Attenborough (director of Gandhi) adds some suave British charm. Even Donald Pleasance turns in an admirable, quirky performance as the meticulous documents forger. Ultra laid-back James Coburn creates such a smooth role, he almost melts off the screen. As individuals, each actor went on to prove he could carry even the sorriest of movies. As an ensemble, the acting allies could probably win the war on their own. The fine cast makes The Great Escape a fine film.

Fences, motorcycles, tunnels — The Great Escape includes all the ingredients required for rippling action-adventure. Bring the wife, bring the kids, bring the fraternity to cheer on our boys against the nasty Nazis. The Great Escape manipulates our emotions, our patriotism, and our machismo to full, fun effect.

Never Cry Wolf Harmonizes Men, Animals

By MATT MORRIS

Carrol Ballard’s film Never Cry Wolf concerns Tyler, a government environmentalist sent to the Arctic, and his efforts to discover exactly who, or what, is killing all the caribou that inhabit those icy regions. The government suspects the canis lupus (Arctic Beige Wolf), but the humble Tyler, as played by yoo-yoo eyed Charles Martin Smith, thinks differently and sides with the wolves.

Like Ballard’s finest film, The Black Stallion, Wolf focuses on the human-animal relationship and with a stunningly picturesque camera eye and taps into deeper, metaphysical quests. Tyler is a dot against the humongous arctic surroundings; this overpowering insignificance, told entirely through visual language, makes him — and the viewer — feel like more than just neighbors to the wolves, caribou and other animal life on this planet.

In a wonderful montage, Ballard shows Tyler eating mice to stay alive while outside his tent the wolves do the same. Later Tyler meets an ancient native named Utek who tells him the wolves have a special form of communication which only a few humans can understand. Oddly enough, Tyler can communicate to Utek only through a translator. Yet none of Ballard's notes on the man-animal relationship are meant to depress; instead Never Cry Wolf celebrates life, primitive and otherwise.

With such a heavy dependence on visual imagery to carry its weighty themes, Never Cry Wolf demands performers who do not chew scenery. Throughout triumph and tribulation, Charles Martin Smith, “Toad” of American Graffiti fame, plays his human fly character, but never to the point of annoyance. His narration, however, is often needless, and ultimately saps the film of much mystery. In the face of Ballard’s imagery, who needs verbalization?

Operating more as a poem than a narrative, Wolf offers Ballard plenty of opportunity to evoke those transcendently wide-open views of nature that made The Black Stallion spellbinding. Here, however, the terrain is rougher and the film more intense.

One moment the viewer catapults into a rusty, loud (the sound effects throughout are Whiz-Bang wonderful) airplane barely floating above the mountaintops; the next moment we plunge to the depths of Arctic sub-zero waters. The dangerous forces of terra firma are blown to ultra-close ups, as are the beauties this rock has to offer.

Ballard takes an even more ambitious step, by including “evil entrepreneurs” who seem to have a habit of strolling into other animal films and destroying the ecology with miles of Hardees. Yet even here, Ballard explores — and stimulates — by suggesting that man, like the wolves, lives off the land in any way he can, whether it be eating mice or eating a quarter-pounder with cheese.

This attitude will probably infuriate some environmentalists, but is the key that completes Ballard’s man versus animal drama.

TONIGHT
M.D. Disco
K.A.
9:00-Monday
$2.00 Donation to Muscular Dystrophy Association
FAST SCOTTY
Beverage Provided
A Lot