THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXIII, Number 16
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, February 10, 1984

Davidson students enjoyed Monday’s snow by viciously attacking Watts dormitory with menacing snowballs and unforgiving stares.

No Health Violation In Possible PCB Storage
By DAN VOORHIS

Electric transformers found two weeks ago on Davidson College property have been tested and found not to contain enough PCB
to violate health laws. No further legal action will be taken, and the fate of the transformers lies in College
hands.

Mecklenburg County Department of Environmental Health officer John Gibson stated that the lab completed testing of all samples last week
and that all were below levels set by federal toxicity laws. He said that “if they took all the PCB
from all the transformers and put it in one, it still wouldn’t be enough to matter.” Instead, the unused transformers
contained the standard mineral oil as coolant. The tests cost the College approximately $9,500.

The transformers were found in the woods behind the golf course but no leaking had been reported. Instead, said Gibson,
two were sweating but “even if they had spilled, it wouldn’t be enough PCB to clean up.”

Director of the Physical Plant Grover Meetze released a statement on the matter: “Davidson College stores a supply of transformers
for repairs and electrical emergencies. On January 26, 1984, the News Department of WSOC and The Davidsonian took photographs of
these transformers.”

(continued on page 4)

Lack Of Funding Hurts News Analysis
By JOHN GATHINGS

Davidson College athletic department members expressed concern over the athletic budget’s current size when questioned in a forum last Thursday.
They emphasized a need for additional funding to improve facilities, strengthen the recruiting program, and increase the size of the
staff.

Inadequate Facilities

Lack of funding is delaying the construction of the new athletic complex, forcing players to tolerate insufficient facilities. Referring to
the gym, tennis coach Jeff Frank said, “It wasn’t adequate when the college was all men... to add 500 women”
compounds the problem. Right now, the women’s locker room is in what used to be coaches’ offices.

Athletic Director Ed Farrell said, “For a college like Davidson we spend a large amount on athletics and physical education.”
However, he said, “For what we are attempting to accomplish, we don’t spend enough.” Farrell pointed out the fact that
Williams, a college with approximately 2,000 students, “is spending $10.5 million for renovations, and we are quibbling over $11 million
for a major facility.” He estimated the total worth of the Williams facilities at $50 million.

Currently, fund-raising efforts for the complex are proceeding slowly. Farrell said, “We are quite a way from completing it.” Frank
said, “We need a new complex even if we have to go out on Trade Street and sell bodies.”

Peggy Pierotti

Self-Selection Leaves 59 On Rusk Waiting List
By DAVID RESNIK

Of 366 freshmen, 267 self-selected into Patterson Court eating houses Sunday.

Women’s Houses

Rusk House filled all its spots and had 59 women on its waiting list. Rusk is setting up a committee
to consider several options including expanding or forming another women’s eating house. Warner Hall also filled all its spots and
had 15 women on its waiting list.

Rusk president Sherri Lind said a demand exists for a new women’s eating house, but such a move would be
unwise since the number of women entering Davidson varies from year to year. Lind noted that this year’s freshman class
is 43 percent women, a...High percentage. While next year’s class may be smaller, Lind said the women on her house’s
waiting list can still belong to Rusk as social members. Although they could join another eating house, Lind anticipates that
most of the women on the waiting list will eat at the Commons, since they would face a fine if
they dropped out of a Patterson Court House in order to fill an available space at Rusk.

Co-ed Houses
Only 14 freshmen chose to eat at Fannie and Mable eating house. Since F & M will lose nearly 30
seniors after this year, they will probably have fewer than 50 members next year, according to treasurer Mark Steiner. F
& M president Sherri Schwenke said that declining membership will be a problem for F & M next year. She
hopes women on Rusk’s waiting list will join F & M. Schwenke also noted that there “seems to be less
of an interest in eating co-ed this year.” She speculated that this may reflect a national trend toward revived interest
in fraternities and sororities.

Eighteen freshmen selected Emanon and 22 selected PAX. Both houses will have more than 60 members next year, however, and
will have no problems with declining membership.

Fraternities
Seventeen freshmen and two upperclassmen decided to eat at the Phi Delta Theta house. Phi Delt president Bob Letton expects
to pick up some new members before the year ends. Letton said Phi Delt will have about 40 members next
year, but the fraternity should have no trouble operating, since they survived this year with 37 members.

Thirty-one freshmen decided to eat at Sigma Alpha Epsilon house. According to SAE president Ben Williams, two freshmen self-selected SAE
as their only choice (shotgunned). One of the shotgunners was voted in and the other withdrew. The SAEs will have
approximately 80 members next year.

Pi Kappa Alpha gained 29 freshmen through self-selection. The PiKAs will have approximately 80 members next year. Twenty-four freshmen decided
at the Kappa Alpha house. The KAs will have 70-75 members next year.

PiKA president Todd Wiebusch felt that self-selection went smoother this year than in past years. He attributed the improvement to
Dean of Students Will Terry’s Patterson Court Committee. KA president Sam Hay agreed with Wiebusch, adding that the Committee did
a good job of educating freshmen and “making them aware of their obligations.” Terry was also pleased with the Committee.

Athletics
No Money
A small budget affects all athletic teams, according to Farrell. “We need more money in the total athletic program,” he
said. Right now we are “overspending an insufficient budget.” (See table on page 4.) This deficit in funding affects the
quality of the athletic program as a whole. Farrell said, “It’s a dilemma for the College when you consider the
amount of money being spent isn’t enough. People who have good programs spend more than we spend. They field more
teams and have more activities.” Although the budgeting affects all sports, there is a tendency to focus on minor sports.
In talking about the soccer team, soccer coach Charlie Slagle said.

(continued on page 4)

Inside This Week
Beefcake: ‘Calendar Boys’ comes to town. Page 6
History of Blacks: The first black student arrived at Davidson 21 years ago. Read more on page 5
Workshop Three: Arias and overtones. A review of each is on page 6
Gotterdammerung?: Soud examines the national perspective of college athletic funding. Page 10
Blacks at Davidson: Opinions articles explore the questions which remain unresolved. Pages 11-13
