2. Friday, September 28, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Dance Theatre To Perform In Love Auditorium

The Contemporary Dance Theatre will perform at 8:15 pm next Thursday in Love Auditorium. Tickets are $1 for students and faculty and $3 for general admission. The Contemporary Dance Theatre is a non-profit organization founded by Nanette Bearden. The company’s style is contemporary, blending classical ballet technique with modern, jazz, and ethnic dance forms. A reception afterwards will be held at the BSC House.

SGA Dorm Senator Election Results:
CANNON: Laura Raney
SENTELLE: Jay Gaither
DUKE: Tim Norville
OFF-CAMPUS: Anne Miano
Jim Kinsey
Mary Griffin
BELK: Anil Sool
Dave Handy
Buddy Martin
LITTLE: David White
WATTS: Louis Zbinden
KNOX: Rachael Henning
IRWIN: (Runoff necessary)
FRESHMEN: Jody Hart, Pres.
Ken Mobley
Betsy Rothschild
NEW DORM: Alex Maultsby

Mandolin Concert By Prodigy Srivinas

This Wednesday, Davidson will present a mandolin concert by 13-year-old prodigy Srivinas.

Known as ‘Mandolin Srivinas,’ he has performed widely in India, Malaysia, and Australia, as well as at the 1983 International Jazzfest in Berlin, where Srivinas earned the praise of festival Director George Gruntz and noted musicians. Srivinas began his musical education at the age of 6 and gave his first concert when he was 10.

Srivinas will perform ragas, South Indian classical music. “Indian ragas are not written down,” according to history Professor Job Thomas. “They are imparted from a master to his disciple over a long time. As the disciples absorb and deliver them in their own distinct ways, the renderings may be infinitely subtle in variations.”

Accompanying Srivinas will be Parthasarthy on violin and Raja Rao on percussion. Vatsala Rajagopalan will introduce the different ragas. The one-hour concert will start at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room. Admission is free.

Living Endowment Kicks Off Fund-Raising Drive

The Living Endowment held “a concentrated 15 to 18 hour conference” last weekend to inaugurate the fall fund-raising drive, according to Endowment Director Lee Willingham. Volunteers from the Living Endowment, the Wildcat Club, and WDAV met to analyze Davidson's financial needs and discuss the best ways to solicit alumni for funds.

The leadership conference began with a dinner last Friday night at which President John Kuykendall spoke. Instruction sessions for each group took place on Saturday morning, and the conference concluded at noon. Approximately 150 volunteers attended the conference, he said.

According to Willingham, the College receives over half of its contributions during the last three months of the year. Half of this, he said, comes between Christmas and New Year's.

The three fund-raising organizations approach different groups, Willingham said. The Living Endowment operates through volunteer chairmen from Davidson graduating classes, who solicit members of their class. The Wildcat Club concentrates on alumni chapters throughout the country. WDAV directs its fund-raising activity primarily to its yearly radiothon, to be held Nov. 4 through 11.

“Most of the soliciting is done by mail,” Willingham said. The Living Endowment student phone-a-thon in late November targets alumni who have yet to contribute.

Aside from alumni, the fund-raising drive also solicits from churches, corporations, foundations, and non-alumni parents. According to Willingham, proceeds from the drive are not earmarked for particular projects, as are many larger corporate and foundation grants. Instead, the revenue is used for the College’s yearly operating budget.

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS!

In appreciation for doing business with us we would like to offer to all Davidson students:

— 30% Discount on Men’s and Ladies’ Hair Styles
— 25% Discount for Any Permanent

Good through month of October.

GARY BAILEY
BARBER STYLIST / OWNER

ROFFLER CREATIVE HAIRSTYLING

HIGHWAY 115
NORTH MAIN STREET
CORNELIUS, N.C. 28031