Friday, October 26, 1984 / The Davidsonian 7

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

M&L ‘Forced’ To Cancel Adventure

Last week’s column ended with the promise of “An Adventure” for this week. I regret to report that the anticipated adventure was, in fact, a great disappointment. Heading west on I-40 simply failed to produce the material necessary for the “I-40 Highlights” story I hoped to present. In fact, I doubt I could find a less eventful eight-hour drive heading west to Nashville through the Smokies during early fall when the tree colors are almost at their best. I even stopped at three Stuckey’s in search of adventure and local color. Nothing. Maybe that’s why they put the interstate where they did; it connects places that contain even the tiniest hint of adventure.

At any rate, I did establish once and for all my personal code of travel, so I present here A Guide to Easy and Pain-free Auto Travel (or, Eight Hours in I-40 Hell).

Comfort Wear: Dress not for success when sitting for long periods. Wear pajamas if you're driving by night. Wear them in the day if they look sort of new wave or Japanese influenced.

The Food-Car Problem: Weigh the ramifications of eating any food in your car. Fast food may seem fast, but try purging that Quarter Pounder essence eight hours after you Drive-Thru. Instead, eat self-contained things like M&Ms and Sweet Tarts. I’ve never seen them mess up auto upholstery. Pimento cheese is a bad idea for auto dining.

Sanitized for Your Protection?: Crucial to successful auto travel is the regular discovery of nice restroom facilities. “Nice” includes amenities such as a toilet (flushability is a plus), a sink (to wash off Sweet Tart leftovers), and a door (the term “open road” does not necessarily mean “open bathroom.” Modesty is acceptable). A never-fail ratio helps me find these facilities: the Roof Color Intensity/Quality of Bathroom Index. The louder the roof, the better the bathroom. Stuckey’s (gleaming aqua), Howard Johnson's (radiant orange), and Hot Stops (brilliant red) all have loud roofs and good bathrooms.

Entertainment: Silence beats an AM radio, except on Sunday mornings when church services are broadcast. If you have only an AM radio and feel compelled to listen to it, sing along. Loudly. If you're alone and you do it long enough, you'll eventually think you're a good singer with chances of becoming very popular.

Love on 18 Wheels: Finally, if you're a female traveler, don’t rule out the possibility of a little romance while you roll away the hours. When those truckers honk, wave back. Without even leaving your auto, you’ve committed yourself to hours of subsequent honks and constant fun. Whatever you do, don’t stop waving once you've started. A tractor-trailer rig weighs far more than most autos, and a trucker-turned-surly knows that.

Accuracy Counts!

Are your parents coming for Parents’ Weekend? Don’t know where to dine Saturday night? If you consult the flyer produced this week by the Commons, you'll find it recommends one restaurant with a special touch, the House of Human in Cotswold Mall. Moo Goo Guy Pan? Chicken Chow Man? Happy Family Soup? What exactly does the head waiter do?

Hypatia and Mrs. Tarleton comfort Bentley during one of his childish tantrums.

Peggy Pierotti - Misalliance

Funny; Lacks Timing

By SAL SCOTT

The production of Misalliance, a comedy by English playwright George Bernard Shaw, faces two particular obstacles. First, the play must make you laugh. Shaw uses humor to convey some very serious messages. If the audience does not laugh, not only are they not entertained, but they also miss out on the major points of the play. Second, because the play itself is nothing more than a long conversation, it must move quickly to keep the audience interested. The Davidson Theater department's production of Misalliance clears the first obstacle easily, but has quite a bit of difficulty with the second. The problem is timing; the play drags at times. During the performance, I found myself ready for lines which simply did not come. At times I wondered if the older characters in the play were portraying senility or experiencing it.

Some brilliant comic performances highlight the play, with sophomore Howie Moyes’ Bentley being the best. Bentley stands nothing short of being the perfect wimp, and Moyes portrays him as such. Despite his tantrums and childish behavior, we still see Bentley’s human side, and Moyes lets us know Bentley does have a little backbone. Freshman Dan Michaelis, in his first major production at Davidson, is simply psychotic (as well as funny) as the harried gunman. Senior John Marks, as Mr. Tarleton,is generally good, but he sometimes fails to live up to his apparent potential. Senior Valerie Hinton as Mrs. Tarleton overplayed the part, making her more of a comic casualty than a loving, supportive mother-wife figure. Senior Dan Lindsey is pleasant enough as Summerhays, but does not play the character’s age convincingly. We are left with the feeling that Summerhays is not really old, but is instead a young man. Senior John Syme makes a wonderfully pessimistic Johnny; freshman Lance Luckey plays well as the slightly upperbrow Joey, and Hypatia is nicely played by sophomore Noél Brewster. Finally, junior Jennifer Poole is calm and firm in her role as Lina, Shaw's spokesperson in the play. A very realistic set design by theater Professor Joseph Gardner complements Misalliance, and theater Professor Rupert Barber's direction held the play together well. The play does have problems, but I did see the opening night performance. I would recommend it for some of the individual performances alone, as well as its potential to improve with each performance.

Fallon Writes Of Two Worlds
By ANNE LAMBERT

Peter Fallon brought the heart of Ireland with him to Davidson when he read several of his works Wednesday evening as part of the Visiting Poets Series sponsored by the Union Literary Arts Committee. Fallon gave a 40-minute reading from his books The Speaking Stones (1978), Winter Work (1983), and poems from his new book. As he began his reading, Fallon speculated that from what he understood, “the Davidson poetry reading series ought to be called the Irish Poetry Reading series,” referring to Irish poets like John Montague and Paul Muldoon who have read here recently.

In a quiet, soothing voice, Fallon spoke of the dual nature of his life as both a cosmopolitan artist and a farmer impassioned with a great love for his homeland. Fallon still lives on a farm in County Meath, Ireland where he grew up. He said three times a week he makes a 50-mile trip into Dublin to Gallery Press, the publishing house he founded in 1970 at the age of 19, where he edits and publishes poems and plays by Irish authors. Much of his poetry reflects the contrast between the two worlds he inhabits. “We live too many lives,” Fallon writes in “Madeleine,” “There I am with my books / in an old stone house, / editing, reading, talking on tours / of America, helping with ewes when I'm home, / turning my head from readers, reviews, / passing the time... . / So many lives! I mean to say / I read the Farmer's Journal and the TLS.”

Yet Fallon recognizes the necessity and validity of living so many lives. “There's more to life than writing books,” he said. “I have all these different dimensions to my life, and rather than be torn by them, confused by them, I want to try to incorporate them into one another.”

Like Paul Muldoon, Fallon’s poems reflect a great reverence for Ireland and her countryside. In “Home,” which he dedicated to Muldoon, Fallon writes:

The faraway hills are green but these are greener. My brother roamed the world and seemed to know everything. He boasted it until I burst, ‘Well you don't know John Joe Farrell, the butcher's son, my friend. I balanced all beside a field in County Meath, its crooked acres falling.

In “The Heart of Ireland,” Fallon speaks of the uncertainty of the land, backtracking to recall “a famine carried on the wind.” Those who live on the land, Fallon feels, are wary of their heritage and fear being betrayed by their faith and their labor. In the heart of Ireland, Fallon finds both beauty and anguish: “The center strains to hold. A half-moon tilts between apple trees.”

Fallon emphasized the necessity of the poet to “know his place.” The new generation of Irish poets, he said, inspired by poets like Patrick Kavanagh, are learning “to trust the things that are close to them, to trust their personal instinct. To know your place, know all the dead ash and old people in it, their legends, their possibilities.” Rather than distance himself from what is a more personal reality by writing about great and monumental events, Fallon writes about the fraternity of the pub or of the village dance or of the tending of his sheep. “Poetry doesn't have to be about things far away,” he said.

As a poet, Fallon constantly and consistently incorporates what he writes into what he is — the whole of Peter Fallon is greater than the sum of his many and varied parts.