12

Friday, March 16, 1984 / The Davidsonian

From The Locker Room

Attention: Baseball, Tennis, Golf, Softball Are Here

By STEVE BYERS
When the sun shines let foolish gnats make sport.
— Shakespeare

Spring is here, folks. How can I tell? Well, sure,
the weather is nicer, but a trained sports eye knows
these things without ever having to look at the ther-
mometer. Look at the sports pages, for instance. The
Cubs are talking about the playoffs (again), the Yan-
kees aren't bickering (well, okay, maybe a little), and
the Braves are wondering how to spring star pitcher
Pascual Perez from a Dominican Republic jail. And
speaking of problems, just how will Steve Young
spend $43 million and, more importantly, why did
the L.A. Express give him this “problem?” Tough
break, kid.

Yessir, optimism abounds and the future always
looks bright in spring. The no-names are winning
golf tournaments and making big plans for the Mas-
ters in April. Some teenager actually gets a game off
Martina Navratilova, and the media adopts her. Even
in basketball the weak sisters are allowed to dream.
Such powerhouses as Morehead St. and Alcorn St.
are still in the running for a national title, which is al-
most as ridiculous (but not quite) as the NHL, where
every team makes the Stanley Cup playoffs — I mean
every team.

Closer to home, spring brings out the competitive
best in a Davidson student. If you don’t believe me,
try playing a “friendly” game of basketball on the out-
door courts. The KA’s may have ruled the gym over
the winter with their great teamwork, but that stuff
goes out the window in spring. This is the time for the
hackers and hot dogs to shine.

All you tennis buffs out there can migrate back to
the courts now, dust off your rackets and waste that
new can of balls with a backhand that still hits mis-
siles over the fence. Here’s a reminder: never play on
a court beside varsity players. It is not good for your
ego, and it annoys the varsity players, who inevita-
bly end up chasing most of your shots. Also, re-
member to play doubles with a good server; other-
wise, you are a walking bullseye at the net for the
other team. “May The Force be with you” in finding
an open court.

If softball or baseball is your thing, take heart and
take to the fields. Catch the Wildcats in action when
they’re home. It will give you a chance to see the na-
tional pastime, work on your tan, and catch up on all
that reading you need to do. Or you can even pretend
you are a Duke student and yell some witty and amus-
ing words at the opposing team. But for goodness
sake, treat yourself to an IMAC softball game,
whether playing or observing. This is where the
would-be major leaguers hang out, and there’s noth-
ing quite like the feeling you get losing a ball in the
sun in the outfield or watching an easy grounder take
a bad hop right into your face.

Davidson now has a golf course for those of you
who wish to bring your scores into double digits or
just need to polish up some aspects of your game (like
driving, chipping or putting). Golf techniques are
like opinions — everybody has one, and they are invari-
ably bad. For best results, you should probably sign
up for the golf class offered this term, at least, before
you challenge the club pro back home. Warning: if
you have never played this game, be prepared for
frustration, exasperation and a stern test of your pa-
tience, but perseverance will bear the fruits of vic-
tory, which are even more frustration and lost balls.

Track season will also be heating up in the spring,
and with the Olympics coming up this summer, here
is a little game for you: guess how many times Carl
Lewis and Mary Decker will appear on the cover of
Sports Illustrated between now and mid-August. If
you are into running for fun (and God forbid if you
are), the necessary apparel is a much-cultivated tan
and a Sony Walkman. Acquire these items and you
cannot go wrong, even if the only running you do is
from the dorm to Chambers.

Let’s have a moment of silence for the football
team, if we may, for these guys are about to begin
spring workouts. As if the hot weather won’t be
enough fun with all of that equipment on, the players
can look forward to a new team on the schedule next
year — NCAA Division I-AA runner-up Western
Carolina.

I would be remiss if I failed to mention the rugby
team, which also plays a tough schedule this spring.
For those of you who are unfamiliar with rugby, it is
essentially a legalized street fight and is not recom-
mended for those under 18 or pregnant mothers.

QUOTE OF THE WEEK:
“Just grab onto the cape and hang on.” — Clemson
Coach Bill Foster’s advice to a player assigned to
guard UNC’s Michael Jordan.

Looking for a part-time job?
Openings for hard workers at

UNITED PARCEL SERVICE

Applications are to be accepted at
United Parcel Service — (Corner of I-85
and North Graham)

Wednesday, March 21, 1984 from 5:00 p.m. — 7:00 p.m.
Taking applications for the following shifts:

9:30 p.m. — approximately 9:00 p.m.
12:45 p.m. — approximately 4:00 p.m.
4:00 a.m. — approximately 7:30 a.m.
11:00 p.m. — approximately 2:30 a.m.

Equal
Opportunity

Pay: $8.00 per hour
15 to 25 hours per week
Monday through Friday

Excellent benefits

Additional inquiries
or information available
through Careers Office