v7

Friday, January 20, 1984/The Davidsonian 9

Helprin Balances Two Worlds In Winter’s Tale

By ANN MEADOR
Winter's Tale, by Mark Helprin. 680 pages. Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovich. $14.95.

Stories which involve flying white horses and searches for the perfectly just city tread a thin line between the adorable
and the repulsive. In Winter's Tale, author Mark Helprin maintains a precarious balance between the two, succeeding for the most
part because he makes no distinction between fantasyland and gritty New York City. They are the same — sure the
horse flies, but he usually flies only a city block at a time. By the end of the novel we
say, “Now, that was impossible, but at least it took place in a real city.”

Winter’s Tale is the epic-proportion story of Peter Lake, an altogether mystical character who lives from the turn of the
19th century to the beginning of the third millennium. It is by following his life that we follow the growth
of New York City; this book justifiably has been called a biography of the city. Peter Lake takes us everywhere
— from the grime of the Bowery to vault-like Fifth Avenue mansions, from the early 1900s to 1999 and the
dawn of what the characters hope will be “the Golden Age.”

This search for a “Golden Age” pervades the novel; it is the sort of optimism which is difficult to stomach
and ultimately dull to consider. But Winter's Tale somehow transcends this preoccupation with transcendence. Helprin’s skill as a graceful storyteller
makes this gobbledegook palatable, so we end up plugging away just because the story is so entertaining.

Helprin’s characters are Dickensian in name and action: Pearly Soames is the most degenerate of gang leaders, and Beverly Penn
is a ravishing, if consumption-tortured, young woman. The rich are very rich, and the poor live in the basements of
hovels.

The book's most moving sections take place at the Lake of the Coheeries, a tiny town up the Hudson which
exists on no map, we learn. Winters there are unbelievably cold, but the inhabitants never worry about it. Like the
block-jumping horse, the cold of the Lake of the Coheeries is a blend of the possible and the impossible. Helprin
describes it as nonchalantly as he describes an office building, yet the cold is inherently amazing. We must let this
frustrating ambiguity fall by the wayside, because it can potentially obscure the strength of the narrative.

Winter’s Tale requires a commitment to finish, but it is worth the effort simply because it entertains. Anything deeper than
that is hard to expect. The Davidson library has not put this novel on order, but it should. It is
a good escape from 20-degree temperatures into below-zero weather.

—Music—

By DAVID McGEE and STEPHEN MANK

Of the many bands to emerge from Athens, Ga. in the past few years — not that anyone is counting
— Love Tractor offers a new sound and a fresh addition to “the Athens sound” (i.e., R.E.M., Pylon, and the
B-52’s). As their name suggests, the band cares little for rock hype, and they are concerned only with putting out
good, listenable music. Their latest record, Around the Bend, features guitar compositions which, with a close listen, are truly entertaining.

The band has excellent technique. On the first cut, “Highland Sweetheart,” the band introduces a ringing guitar theme — Love
Tractor’s trademark — and layers it with rhyme, voice, and basslines. You can’t slam dance to it, but the first
bars of any of their songs usually get a crowd moving. Love Tractor’s music makes for a must-see concert. They
will play at F

Looking for a part-time job? Openings for hard workers at

UNITED PARCEL SERVICE

Applications are to be accepted at United Parcel Service - (Corner of I-85 and North Graham) in Charlotte

Interviews at United Parcel Service

Pay: $8.00 per hour

15 to 25 hours per week Monday through Friday

Excellent benefits

Additional inquiries or information available through Careers Office

Equal Opportunity M/F

Duran Duran’s new album Seven and the Ragged Tiger is concrete evidence that they are masters of their art. With
adequately played instruments, whimpering vocals, and absurdly oblique lyrics, the band has the public eating out of its collective hand.
Yes, Duran Duran are masters of their art — the art of sham.
