Friday, February 17, 1984 / The Davidsonian 5

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Final Workshop Explores 'Perso

By ROSS HOLT

This week brings the last of the Winter Term’s Workshop plays. Workshop IV contains a suspenseful character study and a humorous exploration of personal meaning and reality.

Harold Pinter is one of today’s most influential playwrights. His plays concern hidden feelings — guilt, fear, and almost any other human emotions. He often conceals his messages, however, behind the most everyday, mundane lines, and he is known for being among the first playwrights to intersperse his speeches regularly with written-in pauses. Consequently, an inept production of one of his plays can be very boring indeed.

This is not the case, however, with Stephanie Moffett’s production of Pinter’s The Dumb Waiter. Moffett and her actors, Robert Spach and Robert Odum, pack the play with humor and dramatic intensity to provide a suspenseful, gripping drama.

As the play opens, Gus (Spach) and Ben (Odum) await a new assignment from their employers in the basement of an old building. It soon becomes apparent, however, that they are killers, and that the assignment will be their next hit. Ben, the more experienced partner, whiles away the time by reading the paper, self-assured, calm, businesslike. Gus, on the other hand, is more uncertain. He eventually peppers Ben with questions which reveal his insecurity and misgivings. As the tension mounts between the two men, an old dumbwaiter in the wall mysteriously begins to work, delivering them meaningless orders for food and drink. The suspense builds into two sequential crescendos, one as the men spar verbally with each other, and the other when the dumbwaiter’s ominous purpose is revealed. In the sudden, powerful end, the forces operating on the seemingly secure Ben become apparent, as does the title's double meaning.

Spach and Odum have developed a fine ensemble, and they maintain the feeling in their characters behind even the most oblique lines. Moffett has seen that every line and movement only focuses the characters as they unfold, and her sparse set serves to punctuate the desperation they both — one and ultimately the other — feel. The Dumb Waiter is one of those edge-of-the-seat plays, but not merely because its plot involves killers and a sinister dumbwaiter. Indeed, that is suspenseful, but equally so is the character study it ultimately portrays.

Kratt And Soos

By BRIAN BUTLER

About thirty professors, students, and local folk gathered in the Center for Special Studies Wednesday night to hear poet Mary Kratt and fiction writer Frank Soos read from their work.

Kratt is a native of West Virginia, a graduate of Agnes Scott; she now lives in Charlotte, where she raises her family, pets, and apparently pays a good deal of attention to the birds. Her book of poems, Spirit Going Barefoot (1982), published right here in town at Moreland Hogan’s Briarpatch Press, won the Oscar Arnold award for best original book of poems published in North Carolina. She also writes for the Charlotte Observer, does a lot of digging around in the local history files at the library, and has published two non-fiction books about Charlotte, Charlotte: Spirit of the New South, and Charlotte Scrapbook. She says that writing a non-fiction work is like filling your cerebral bathtub as full as it will go, and then pulling the plug. One wonders if local history leaves a ring.

Kratt’s poetry is like her personal local history, and her tub runneth over. Under the guise of simple, associative imagism, Kratt preserves a witty sort of two-edged punning, often using a narrator who accidentally seems to stumble upon the sexual, the cruel, or the absurd. Are Kratt and this ostensible praise-the-world romantic the same person? One at least wonders, but that is beside the point, anyway. Despite her rather suburban demeanor, Kratt’s likening of the typically housewife-like pocketbook to “the small crease on my body,” and then depicting pocketbooks “molded” to bodies, “sewn” to “skin,” coupled with an overriding tone of human compassion yielded such a grotesque power that one becomes afraid that her appearance could be hiding a darker woe.

Aside from experiments in light, satirical, and occasional poetry, Kratt concentrates on memories of

Rob Odom in The Dumb Waiter.Her childhood, her grandmother, and her first sexual awareness (not experience), and on being a woman in a hardware store, or downtown, or among Indians. In one poem, an Indian, finding the Kratt’s suburban home plop in the middle of the old game trail, invites himself in. Kratt, the hospitable type, of course lets him roam about as he wills. He says nothing but lights a fire, a real good one.

Frank Soos was born in Virginia and attended Davidson, where he received his A.B. in English in 1972. After graduation, he taught school and track in Mooresville until 1976, following which he went to the University of Arkansas and received an M.F.A. in creative writing. He now teaches composition and creative writing at V.P.I. He is very tall, and quiet, and understated. Soos read from a longish short story called “Dog’s Tail,” a first-person inside account of growing up in southwest Virginia. It is a story with loafers, drunks, coaches, moms, dads, fat safety-patrol leaders, waitresses, and a lot of real genuine southern atmosphere. Soos doesn’t make the absurdities of southern speech and dress and manner stick out as objects of ridicule, as do some “southern” short-story writers. Rather he tells the story from the inside, and as he would tell it to someone entirely accustomed to the trappings of the country town. His narrator understands that it is funny to relate the body of a dead drunk all dressed up by the mortician to the appliance salesman at Montgomery-Ward’s. At the same time, though, he understands the lonely rural depression behind the drunk’s life so well that he isn’t going to insult you by talking about it. His subtle use of small-town commonplaces never lets the thing itself overrun its context, so we listeners have to look at these laughable southern trappings as if we, like the narrator, had lived with them for twenty slow-moving years. And we understand that, when one character responds to another with a “Yeah,” or an “Alright,” no other words are needed. These stories ought to replace some of the New Yorker/Harper's/Atlantic monotony, but they probably won't, and who needs ’em? Frank Soos should keep on sitting up late at night and typing out these things. It’s good to know.

Peggy Pierotti and Lee team responsible for Inherit the Wind and The Night Thoreau Spent in Jail. Set in a Morocco bar on “the wrong side of the Straits,” it explores the meaning of reality for an assortment of the bar’s denizens. The bar, tended by Frank (played by Charlie Lovett), is a rundown Rick’s where no one goes only for the waters. Its patrons include “The Woman Who Knows Almost Everything Badly” (Lisa Thomas), “The Richest Girl in the World” (Suzonn Dickey), “The Most Famous Playwright of our Time” (Rocky Kmiecik), “The Best Gigolo in Morocco” (Forrest Williams), and “The Most Evil Man in Washington Court House, Ohio” (Scot Myers). This odd collection of misfits has gathered at the bar as usual, but Frank tells us he has something more planned for them than the usual drinks. Once the characters establish their everyday personas, Frank offers them the chance to reach a higher reality by means of various plants and chemicals. But as the drugs take effect — or appear to — the other realities lead the characters to realizations about themselves that they do not necessarily want to know. Ultimately, the high is perhaps more painful than the comedown, when they establish its true nature. The actors create their characters well, especially Williams as the suave but rather greasy gigolo who can speak English only through song titles (“Yes, We Have No Bananas,” for example), and Kmiecik as the playwright and perceptive observer somewhat reminiscent of reporter E.K. Hornbeck in Inherit the Wind. Director Baldwin handles the large cast well, giving each character a general area of the stage and only allowing them to break out during certain moments. The play suffers, however, because the script tends to emphasize one character at a time because of the singular nature of each attempt to find reality. It tends to drag at times, but picks up toward the strong conclusion. It's worth seeing, however, for its unique treatment of the problems it addresses. Coupled with The Dumb Waiter, Live Spelled Backwards makes this week's Workshop a mustn’t-miss deal.