6 Friday, September 28, 1984/The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Montague Captures Ireland’s Embattled Emotion

By IDA PHILLIPS

The poems of John Montague brought memories of Ireland’s beauty and bloodshed to Davidson this week. Montague read several of his selections before an appreciative audience Monday night in the 900 Room. Claiming to have “written more love poems than any Irish poet since Yeats,” Montague began his reading with two love poems, “The Same Gesture” and “Love, a Greeting.”

Montague’s following selections (“Like Dolmens Round My Childhood, the Old People,” “Clear the Way,” and “The Trout”) came from his childhood experiences. He said they offered a “glimpse of the rural Ireland of my youth and the roots accessible to Irish poets.” Montague grew up in the Fermanagh-South Tyrone area where he was, he said, “surrounded by ancient stones,” hence the title of his poem, “Like Dolmens Round my Childhood, the Old People.” This poem in particular reflects the nature of Montague’s childhood.

Ancient Ireland, indeed! I was reared by her bedside, The rune and the chant, evil eye and averted head, Fomorian fierceness of family and local feud. Gaunt figures of fear and of friendliness, For years they trespassed on my dreams, Until once, in a standing circle of stones, I felt their shadows pass Into that dark permanence of ancient forms. 
— John Montague

Following “Courtyard in Winter” and “Dowager,” Montague read “To Cease,” which is dedicated to his friend Samuel Beckett. Montague explained that Beckett devised a plan to disappear by means of a boat with a hole in the bottom. Montague quipped that Beckett “was confused between disappearance and suicide.”

After praising the life-giving quality of nature in “For the Hillmother,” Montague read two works inspired by the current warfare in Ireland. The poems are included in Montague’s most recent collection, The Dead Kingdom, which Montague described as “not a cheerful book.” He continued by saying, “But how could it be? Ireland is becoming a dead kingdom because of all the deaths — an unhalting menace.” The reality of the curse is found in “Red Branch (A Blessing)” which Montague described as a “song for people I know who have been killed.” The current strife is reflected in such lines as: “Sing a song for the people, so grimly holding on,/ Protestant and Catholic, fingered/ at teabreak, shot inside their home/ the iron circle of retaliation.”

The final poems of Montague’s reading, “Process” and “Well Dreams,” are also included in The Dead Kingdom. Montague concluded with “Well Dreams,” a poem that moved away from the struggles of the outside world to concentrate on what Montague termed the “well of the psyche.” He described the poem as a comment on “how one absorbs so much and still goes on,” perhaps hinting at his optimistic outlook on Ireland’s future. For one finds in the depths of the well “small intensities of mirth, / The hidden laughter of earth.”

Montague, a professor at the University of Cork, Ireland, began writing poetry when he was 18. His first collection was published when he was 30, and he has since compiled seven books. He is the recipient of several noteworthy poetry awards, including the 1976 Award of the Irish American Cultural Institute, the Marten Toonder Award in 1977, the Alice Hunt Bartlett Award of the Poetry Society in 1979, and a Guggenheim Fellowship.

Putting It To The Ground: Tractor Pull Mystique

“It’s the fastest-growing spectator sport in America,” the announcer intoned last weekend at the Metrolina Speedway. “It” is the sport of tractor pulling, and one successful tractor puller I talked with, Ronnie Walser, agreed. “If they’d just get the purses up, there’d be even more people doing it,” he said.

MORE OR LESS: SPECIAL REPORT

Walser is a member of the North Carolina Tractor Pullers Association, even though the Piedmont Tractor Pullers Association sanctioned last weekend’s two-day event. The two groups sanction many of North Carolina’s pulls, and according to Walser, the crowd of 4,000 Saturday night was a good turnout.

What It Is

Tractor pulling is a visceral sport, drawing on extremes of every kind. It is smelly, loud, expensive, and slow moving. The crowd cannot get enough of it, however, and those crowds grow every year.

Smelly: This is the essence of the tractor pull, a background buzz you cannot escape. Most tractors burn a diesel-kerosene fuel mix, and early in the evening a gray-blue haze setsin over the infield and grandstand. It takes getting used to, and a good-sized headache will haunt the tractor pull newcomer by the end of a night’s competition.

Loud: “Now, these 9200 modifieds have a deeper-throated sound than most of you will recognize,” the announcer warned us, “except for those of you who may have heard an Army tank.” He was not kidding; newly arrived viewers winced through earplugs as the tractors lumbered by. Eddie Ferguson, a PTPA worker, laughed when I asked him about the noise. “Yeah, you could say it's loud,” he shouted over the din.

Slow moving: Tractor pulling is the baseball of automotive competition. The object is simple — pull a weight-filled trailer (the “sled”) as far as possible on a 300-foot-long dirt track. The longest pull wins. A mechanism on the sled makes the weight heavier the farther the tractor pulls it, so most tractors don’t make it to 300 feet. This arrangement makes for five-minute breaks between each pull, because the dirt track must be groomed, the sled pulled back to the starting line, and the next tractor hooked to the sled. This is not a sport for hockey fans or anyone who can't stand waiting. In fact, waiting is a major component of this sport — but more on that later.

Expensive: I asked Walser about costs, and he pointed to a doodad-covered, green tractor. “$100,000,” he said. Not all are that expensive, and most pullers I talked with consider pulling a hobby. Paul Norman, however, is a different story. His 3,600-horsepower War Wagon (the fourth tractor he has built in his five-year pulling career) came in second twice last weekend, but he hopes to go professional as the sport grows. “We're counting on this heavily,” he said. “We plan on making it sooner or later — there’s no way to afford the money we put in without getting back some of it.” Norman pointed to events in Ohio with $110,000 purses split four ways, a big increase over last weekend's $10,000 purse split 21 ways. “The more we put into it now,” he said, “the easier it'll be next year.” When the sport finally breaks nationwide, Norman hopes to be among the big competitors.

Finding the Fine Line: Winning a tractor pull is easy to talk about but hard to achieve. Ronnie Walser calls it “putting it to the ground.” Paul Norman calls it “hooking it to the ground.” Last weekend, for instance, Paul Norman outpowered his competitors by 500 horsepower, yet “we could never get it hooked to the ground. All the horsepower in the world won't help if you can’t get the tires into the ground,” he said.

What these men seek is the perfect combination of throttle and groundspeed. If they accelerate too fast, no momentum builds; but if they don’t accelerate fast enough, the sled’s weight will overtake the tractor. That’s the fine line, and if the track isn’t prepared right, “there’s no finding that fine line,” Norman said. Norman pointed to Ronnie Walser’s victory last Friday as an example of a lower-powered tractor beating out more powerful trucks. “Everybody gets a fair chance sooner or later,” Norman said. “That's what's great about this sport — it’s a great equalizer.”

Social Whirl: “It’s a hobby, and it’s a family thing,” Ronnie Walser told me. Almost everyone I talked with had relatives involved in pulling, even if they themselves did not pull. “My first cousin drives that one,” one large man said as he pointed to an International Harvester. Even youngsters travel with the pullers; Norman said he always takes his family on the weekend trips that take him to North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia. “It’s somewhere to see people, and it’s somewhere to go,” tractor pull organizer Mary Hammill told me. “It’s a social event — you know, you get to meet a lot of people.” The waits between the pulls leave plenty of time for socializing among the infield crowd.

The Long and Winding Pull: Yes, it’s loud, it’s smelly, it’s slow moving; but after spending an evening in the infield, I’d be the last to denigrate the world of the pull. I thought about modifying my Toymotor with a couple of blown engines and torque converters and joining the PTPA, but I’m not sure I could put it to the ground. The right stuff of tractor pull seems beyond the grasp of most of us.

Ann Meador