Friday, September 14, 1984 / The Davidsonian 15

No Race Can Forget Its Ancestors
Janet Stovall

September falls quietly upon Davidson as it has for many years. This idyllic setting has known neither the auction block nor the rank holds of the Middle Passage, and yet, there are those among you who remain in bondage. Black students at Davidson have never known the chains of slavery, but we are yet bound by the fetters of white tradition, ignorance, and prejudice. It is not enough for you, as an individual white person, to say that you loathe inequality — you must admit that it still exists, that your ancestors brought it into being, and that it is your responsibility to end it.

We would not care how you felt about injustice if it were not for the fact that as long as you deny that it exists, it keeps us in slavery. Most of you are good enough to abhor inequality — or at least smart enough to say that you do — but you rankle when Black people place both the blame for its existence and the responsibility for its demise upon you. You are the grandchildren and great-grandchildren of slaveowners just as we are the grandchildren and great-grandchildren of slaves. Do we deny our ancestors because they were poor and enslaved? To do so would be to stand aloof from our responsibility to continue bringing ourselves and our own up from slavery. Likewise, you should not decry your slaveowning patriarchs, lest you also turn deaf ears and cold hearts to your responsibility to right their legacy of wrong.

The burden of responsibility necessarily rests on those in leadership and with those who control the resources needed to produce tangible results. As students, you can effect some improvements right here and right now. Don’t allow yourselves to remain prejudiced; and, since prejudice comes as a result of ignorance, don’t allow yourself to remain ignorant. You came here to learn — learn something about life and something about those of whom you know nothing. If you are to know us, you must first know of our brothers, our sisters, our mothers, and fathers. You must know of our heroes, our achievements, our pain, and our tears. Ask us about these things. Ask us why we are not happy all the time, ask us what makes us hurt. Do not ask us frivolous questions about our hair, our skin color — we are not some exotic species. Don’t ask us why we're here; try to figure out how to make “here” better for all of us. Don’t ask us to justify our existence to you — accept it and remember that by virtue of your color, you are born with the reasons each day.

Try to understand, though, that not all of us will have the patience to be your griots. For some of us feel our burdens more heavily, our pain more keenly. We are individuals, too — and surprise! — some of us just don’t like you. But there are lessons to be learned from our anger that are no less important than those that are learned through our benevolence. September comes this year as it always has, but next year it could fall on a changed, a better Davidson. It is in your power to change things, and, in the words of Langston Hughes: "We now intend to express our individual dark-skinned selves without fear or shame. If white people are pleased, we are glad. If they are not, it doesn't matter. We know we are beautiful . . . we build our temple for tomorrow, strong as we know how, and we stand on top of the mountain, free within ourselves.”

Stovall is a senior English major from Rocky Mount, N.C.

Despite Spring's Gains, Problems Still Exist
Andrew Yon

This article is intended primarily for freshmen but also for upperclassmen. For freshmen, it is an introduction; for upperclassmen, a reminder. The R.A.C.E. (Racial Attitudes Concerning Everyone) Committee is still here, as is the problem with which it is struggling. The problem is one deeply embedded in this school’s history and tradition, as well as in its current structure. The problem is that Davidson College is lily-white — about 50 out of 1350 students are black, there is only one permanent black professor (two temporary), only one black Trustee, and no black studies courses. Unfortunately, there is no easy solution to this problem.

Steps were finally taken toward a solution, however, during the spring of last year. The Black Student Coalition (BSC) submitted Project ’87, a set of proposals geared specifically toward increasing the black presence on campus. A series of letters, both for and against Project ’87, were published in The Davidsonian, provoking a great deal of discussion and argument about what, if anything, should be done. R.A.C.E., informally begun last winter, became active in the debate. Basically, R.A.C.E. was then, and is now, a group of people who feel that it is extremely dangerous to society as a whole for students to spend four years at Davidson, seeing almost noblack people except those sweeping floors and cleaning toilets. If this continues to be the case (as it is now), Davidson will continue to send people out into society with a warped and very wrong sense of reality. That is why R.A.C.E. wholeheartedly supports Project '87. There simply must be a greater black presence on campus, in two equally important areas. First, there must be more black students, professors, and administrators so that all of us, black and white, can get used both to interacting with each other and to seeing Blacks in positions of authority. Second, there must be black studies courses so that we can all learn more about the black experience in America, which is a vital and very often ignored part of this nation’s heritage. Ultimately, R.A.C.E.’s goal is to narrow the socio-economic gap between Blacks and Whites in American society. We can do our part now, though, by making Davidson College do its part. By realizing the changes we seek, Davidson could both sensitize people to the problem of racism, and perhaps enlighten and inspire them to do something about it. Yon is a junior mathematics major from Chelsea, Ala.

NC-PIRG Adds Excitement To $9,000 Tuition Bill

Bugg

One day this past summer, my mother ran up the driveway from the mailbox, calling out to me as I sat on the porch watching the cars go by. “Billy, Billy!” she cried, as she nearly tripped up the broken, wooden stair. “It’s from Davidson! It’s from Davidson!” I jumped up in elation as I grabbed the envelope from my mother’s hand and ripped it open. “Wow!” I exclaimed, after pulling out the bill from the Comptroller. “Only $9,090!” And I grew even more excited when I read in the letter from Mr. Davidson that I had the opportunity to once again contribute to the North Carolina Public Interest Research Group (NC-PIRG) simply by adding $4 to the bill.

You see, NC-PIRG is a unique organization that Davidson wisely propagates through the tuition bill. An enclosed flier states that the $4 contribution would go “far in making a Davidson College education as rich as possible.” Always being the type of person who wants a rich education, I became ecstatic as I read on. “Davidson’s chapter of PIRG is based in the belief that students are citizens,” the flier stated. Already I knew I was going to like NC-PIRG because I too believe that students are citizens. I read further. “My education,” it said, “should include experience in recognizing and working to solve some of society’s pressing problems.” “Gosh,” I exclaimed, “I guess society does have some pressing problems, I sure hope this tells me what they are!” I continued reading, growing so intrigued that I took a step backward, tripped on the broken stair, and landed on my bottom.

My bewilderment increased as I read that my contribution would support “the research and consciousness-raising work of Davidson students in the areas of energy, the environment, and Nuclear Disarmament.” “It sure is nice that Davidson is enthusiastic about enriching its students,” I said, brushing the dust off my overalls, “and it desires them to solve such pressing problems as energy, the environment, and nuclear disarmament. Gee whiz, Mom. Not many people recognize how much quality education and nuclear disarmament are connected. Davidson sure does have its act together.”

Mom grew impatient since I wouldn't let her see the flier, and finally she grabbed it from my hand. “I wanna see! I wanna see!” she shouted, so I let her look at it for a moment. “Oh my goodness!” she said. “This is that organization where Mrs. Caldicott speaks about how Russians are such nice people and how we really shouldn't blow them up...” “No Mom,” I corrected her. “It's Dr. Caldicott, Dr. Helen Caldicott. She is that pleasant, patriotic woman who was once head of Physicians for Social Responsibility. Remember, she was the one in that movie that told us how bad nuclear war is.” “Oh that's right,” Mom said. “Wouldn't it be nice if Davidson offered other groups the opportunity to ask for contributions in the tuition. There are lots of fine organizations like The Young Socialists Club.” “Yeah,” I interrupted, “or the Bert Lance for President Society.” “Or the Organization of Concerned Citizens for the release of Reverend Moon,” Mom added. “That would be nice,” I said, “except that Davidson is still much too Right Wing for that. Remember, we aren't in Beverly Hills anymore.” “Oh well,” Mom sighed. “Anyway. I can't wait to tell your father about...” “About my chance to enrich my life and education by contributing $4 to NC-PIRG. And don't forget to tell him that tuition is only $9,090 this year.” “All right, dear,” Mom said as she tripped down the stairs on her way to the clothesline. And I sat back down in my rocking chair on the porch as happy as I had been all summer and watched the cars go by.

Bugg is a sophomore from Atlanta, Georgia.