THE DAVIDSONIAN  
Volume LXXIV, Number 7  
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036  
Friday, October 26, 1984  

Committee Anticipates Drinking Age Changes  
By JOHN GATHINGS  

A yet-unnamed advisory committee met for the first time last week to discuss the College’s position regarding pending drinking-age legislation in North Carolina. “We want to be able to respond to the anticipated change in the drinking law, in positive ways, ahead of time,” Union Director William Brown said. “It’s a matter of thinking which ways to change,” he said. The committee consists of student representatives from various campus organizations.  

North Carolina will likely raise the drinking age to 21 due to a bill passed by Congress and signed by President Reagan last summer. The law will withhold federal highway funds from states which do not raise their legal drinking age to 21.  

Terry Seeks Student Input  
By ROSS HOLT  

Dean of Students Will Terry has asked for student input on procedures used in enforcing the Honor Code. In a notice given to The Davidsonian yesterday, Terry said his office is “soliciting from students suggestions for the Code of Disciplinary Procedure (Honor Council Procedure).” Terry said students may present suggestions in writing to either his office or SGA President John Laughlin. The Student Conduct Council (SCC) and the Dean of Students Will Terry organized the committee to gather student input concerning potential changes in College policy.  

“What I want them to do is to discuss it, to understand the issues and the problems,” Terry said. He added that the committee will submit a recommendation to the Student Conduct Council, which will in turn make a recommendation to President John Kuykendall. However, the committee has a long way to go before finalizing a recommendation,” according to Brown, who is working with the committee. “At this stage of the game it’s a matter of brainstorming. We are a long way from doing anything,” Brown said. He does see a primary goal for the group. “The first thing we can do is en- (continued on page 6)  

Honor Council will review the suggestions. Then, according to the notice, “there will be further opportunity to discuss those proposals after the Councils’ review.” The text of the notice is printed in the letters column of today’s Davidsonian. Terry said he hopes to have the SCC and the Honor Council review the suggestions together. If those groups need to make a procedural change, he said, the SCC would amend the Code of Disciplinary Procedure.  

Students take a break during last Sunday's CROP Walk. The Walk raised money to fight hunger on a local and international level.  

If the SCC amends the Code of Disciplinary Procedure, the SCC can amend the Code by two majority votes 14 days apart. If President John Kuykendall feels that the amendment goes against Trustee policy, he can suspend the amendment until the Trustees can vote on it. Otherwise, the president would submit the proposal to the Trustees within 30 days. If the Board does not act within a further 30 days or if...They approve it, it becomes a part of the code. Terry serves on the SCC with Alumni Begin Careers At Davidson

By RICHARD CLOUDT

Ever thought about calling a professor by his or her first name? This adjustment involves only one of many that College-employed alumni at Davidson must make upon returning to their Alma Mater to work. The satisfaction these new administrators gain from another side of the Davidson experience, they say, outweighs the obstacles.

Of the seven recent Davidson graduates that work for the College, four gave their general impressions of the work and the differences between the students’ view of Davidson and theirs. Steve Soud ’84, a counselor in the Admissions department, said some aspects of Davidson life became more noticeable from his new position. He said students seem to stick to themselves; the amount of studying that goes on here appears more evident from an outside viewpoint, he said. Soud said without having to study, he has noticed how few extra-collegiate activities Davidson offers.

“At first it was very difficult because there was little to do after work. I often found myself lonely and depressed. Now, however, I'm taking more advantage of my colleagues and College activities, and I've learned to create things to do with friends.” Although Soud enjoys his position, for the most part, he still cannot get used to calling psychology Professor Ruth Ault, “Ruth.”

Marvin Overby ‘83, Assistant Director of Media and Public Relations, has a slightly different view of Davidson. After a year abroad on a Watson (continued on page 3)

On Council Procedure

According to the Code of Discipline, mathematics Professor Steven Davis, philosophy Professor Robert Maydole, sociology Professor Janet Grigsby, English Professors Cynthia Lewis and Randy Nelson, sociology Professor Peter Venturelli, and German Professor J. S. Winkler; SGA President John Laughlin and Vice-president Beadsie Woo, junior class president Ed Hay, sophomore class president Mark Sandy, and freshman class president Jody Hart; and sophomore Laura Kline and junior Robert Mc- (continued on page 6)

Court Adopts Alcohol And Drug Policies

By ANDREA DIEDRICH

Most Patterson Court Houses have formulated drug and alcohol policies in response to a request last month by Dean of Students Will Terry, according to President of the Patterson Court Council Murray Simpson. Terry's request, in the form of a letter to Court houses, follows his appeal last year for houses to form a general policy concerning alcohol use, according to Simpson. Terry wishes to join firm drug policies with those concerning alcohol.

The alcohol policies of the houses tend to be “very similar,” Simpson said. He said most of the Court's alcohol policies reflect Terry's suggestions of last year. Those suggestions include checking student I.D.s at parties and placing signs at the door reminding students under 19 years of age that it is illegal to drink. By taking these precautions, the individual, rather than the house, assumes responsibility for breaking North (continued on page 6)