THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIII, Number 14

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, January 27, 1984

Officials from the Mecklenburg County Department of Environmental Health are investigating the possibility that electrical transformers stored on college property
behind the golf course contain the toxic chemical Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCB).

Old transformers used only mineral oil as a fire retardant and coolant, but newer models use PCB, according to DEH
official John Gibson.

“To our knowledge we have no PCB,” College Maintenance Engineer Phillip Cashion said.

On Wednesday the DEH responded to a call from Bill Meyer, an official with the Solid and Hazardous Waste Department
of the N.C. Health Service. A Davidsonian reporter had called Meyer to find if transformers stored on Davidson’s property might
contain PCB.

The DEH arrived within an hour of Meyer’s call. They discovered 36 transformers; two had minor leaks.

They ordered the College to make immediate arrangements with Duke Power to analyze the chemicals contained in the transformers and
to obtain an Emergency Storage permit from the Environmental Protection Agency.

The DEH also warned the College it might receive a $25,000 fine for failing to act on an order to
stop pumping soapy water and lime into the stream across from the Black Student Coalition house.

If the transformers are found to contain PCB, then the College must hire “a reputable person” to dispose of the
transformers, according to Gibson. The transformers would need to be drained of the oil. The PCB would be incinerated at
high temperatures or broken down by a laser.

Gibson said that the deadline for disposal of PCB-filled transformers was January 1, 1984. Any violation of this law would
entail a possible fine of $10,000.

Cashion said that the transformers were moved to their current site three to four weeks before Christmas vacation. The transformers
owned by the College had been decommissioned many years ago.

The College is cooperating fully with the DEH’s orders and should know within 30 days if the transformers contain PCB.
It will cost Davidson College approximately $1,000 to test the transformers.

Plott Scholarship Competition Delayed

By DAVID McGEE

The Plott Scholarship committee has decided to delay the first competition for the scholarship until the 1985-86 school year. The
scholarship honoring former chairman of the music department Donald Plott would go to a promising music student at Davidson. The
committee had originally planned to hold a competition as part of the Plott festival during the 1984-85 school year.

Music department chairman Wilmer Welsh cited two reasons for the decision. First, the committee wanted to devote more time to
publicizing the scholarship to potential candidates. The committee would like to make the competition a national event. “We couldn’t do
this by next year and get the caliber of students we want,” Welsh said. Additional time will also enable the
committee to arrange for prominent musicians to judge the competition.

Secondly, the committee feels the program needs more financial support. Last year’s Plott festival, highlighted by a performance conducted by
Zubin Mehta of the New York Philharmonic Orchestra, raised $300,000 of the $400,000 goal. Welsh feels the entire program needs
more money. “We realized this is a bigger deal as we got into it and decided it was impossible for
next year, but possible for the year after. We want to do this absolutely right,” Welsh said. The Plott festival
currently has no budget, and Welsh sees a need for one.

Earlier this year the committee was divided over several controversies. Committee member Joseph Robinson ‘62, who was an organizer and
featured performer at the Plott festival last year, felt the intended purpose of the scholarship was being compromised, especially the
provision for Plott scholars to study at music schools and conservatories away from Davidson. Most committee members now feel they
have resolved the disagreements.

College Considers Buying Phone System

By BOYD BLACKBURN

As a result of AT&T’s recent break-up and anticipated Southern Bell rate hikes, Davidson College has begun to look into
the possibility of a college-wide, college-owned telephone system.

The earliest any system could be operative would be fall 1985, according to Director of Personnel and Administrative Services Bob
Stephenson.

The College will have to decide within the next few months whether to expand existing equipment or to start from
scratch.

The current switching equipment for Davidson College cannot be expanded. This system handles only the 892-2000 number and its extensions.
To incorporate student dormitory phones, either a separate system must be built or the present one scrapped and a new
comprehensive one built. The other major technical problem is whether to purchase existing cables or to buy new ones.

Many decisions will wait until cost estimates from Southern Bell are received. The AT&T break-up has delayed this part of
the process.

Stephenson believes there will be many student benefits from a college-owned system. In particular, student access to Davidson’s WATS lines
would significantly reduce rates on long-distance calls.

SGA member Chet Barksdale will represent students in implementing the new phone system. Student support for such a phone system
will have to be balanced against the additional costs to be incurred by the College. The Board of Trustees will
have the final authority over any phone decision.

Inside This Week

Prepared: EMTs ready to assist in medical crises. Page 4

Planet: Students in Science Fiction seminar design their own world. Page 5

Workshop: My Cup Ranneth Over and Architruc provide engrossing entertainment. Page 6

Basketball: Cats win one but lose two. Page 8

Nuclear War: The need to talk about it. Page 11
