THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXIII, Number 18
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, March 16, 1984

Knife Drawn On Student, Town Resident Charged
By DAN VOORHIS

Several Davidson students witnessed a potentially violent event Wednesday night when a local resident drew a knife and threatened a student. The incident occurred around 8:30 p.m. at a private party at the Pi Kappa Alpha house.

After talking with several other students, Duane Hoskins, his wife, and her brother Jim Fuschillo tried to enter the closed party. Hoskins, a Davidson resident who works for a construction firm in Charlotte, grew angry when told several times to leave by sophomore Spence Millen. Hoskins began shouting obscenities, pulled out a large lock-blade knife, and threatened Millen. Fuschillo and Hoskins’s wife restrained Hoskins and led him away in the direction of the ETC house. Students at the party called the police and Sergeants Harold Cook and Wayne King of campus security stopped the trio. Millen was then asked if he would press charges. When Hoskins continued to threaten him, Millen agreed. Police found concealed knives on both Fuschillo and Hoskins.

Millen said that he initially had trouble deciding whether to press charges or not. Hoskins told him not to, and Millen asked him, “What would you do if I threatened you with a knife?” and he said, “I'd take it and kill you in a second.” That pretty much decided it.

The three suspects, Millen, and twelve witnesses went to the police building to make statements. Hoskins continued to threaten Millen in front of the people there. The three were released while officers went to Huntersville to get an arrest warrant for Hoskins. Police could not hold them because no officer witnessed the incident. After the magistrate issued the warrant, Cook and King arrested Hoskins, charging him with assault with a deadly weapon. Hoskins was released when he posted a $200 bond after his arraignment in Charlotte. The trial is set for 9:00 on April 5 at District Court in Charlotte.

Before entering the PiKA house, the three ran into freshman Carroll Overton and junior Jay Gaither in the area between the Commons and Belk dormitory. The trio had a gallon-jug of wine laced with the pain-killer Percodan. They had a lengthy conversation, and Gaither said the three were in a “fairly mellow” frame of mind. At one point during their discussion, however, one of the men offered to “steal the heart in front of the SPE house and kill everybody inside,” said Overton. The students felt they were joking and ignored the offer. Hoskins and Fuschillo became more obviously hostile as the conversation went on. They expressed resentment toward students and the College. The conversation broke up when Sergeant Cook stopped to talk with the group. The three then went directly to the PiKA house where they encountered Millen.

Trustees Approve Kuykendall
A News Analysis By DAVID MCGEE

The Trustee Presidential Search Committee ended its year-long effort Friday, February 24, when the Board of Trustees unanimously approved the committee's recommendation of John Kuykendall as Davidson’s fifteenth president. Kuykendall will take office July 1.

The 18 members of the committee, chosen from the Trustees, faculty, administration, and student body, began their search last February when Sam Spencer announced he would resign at the end of the 1982-83 school year. During the search, members of the committee did not discuss any of their activities. The members took an oath not to discuss theproject until after they had recommended a candidate to the Trustees, and the Board had approved the candidate.

The Process of the Search

The committee received over 300 applications and nominations, mainly from the contacts it established during the first months of the search. The initial pool of nominations came from Trustees, alumni, responses from an advertisement in the Chronicle of Higher Education, and from about 50 college presidents across the country. President emeritus Spencer sent 250 letters to potential contacts and candidates. Committee Chairman Ben Craig '54 said the committee wanted to select the best person possible, “not just someone we could all agree on.” Craig said the committee looked mainly at the candidates’ Christian commitment and their views on the College's Statement of Purpose. The committee did not establish any specific criteria for the candidates because members felt that restrictive requirements would reduce the total pool. “The candidates we interviewed were outstanding people: Rhodes scholars, college presidents, businessmen, attorneys.

(continued on page 6)

Inside This Week

By DAVID McGEE

“His educational, academic, and personal credentials are impeccable,” said chairman of the Board of Trustees Fred Stair. “He has distinguished himself as a student, a teacher, an academic leader, and as a Presbyterian theologian. John will bring quiet, dignified, decisive, and progressive leadership to Davidson.”

John W. Kuykendall, 45, graduated from Davidson in 1959, and is currently chairman of the religion department at Auburn University in Alabama. He graduated cum laude and served as Assistant Dean of Students here from 1960 to 1962. He received a bachelor of divinity degree from Union Theological Seminary in Richmond in 1964, a master of sacred theology degree from Yale Divinity School in 1965, and a master of arts degree in 1972 and a Ph.D. degree in 1975 in American Religion from Princeton University. While attending Davidson, he served as president of the student body and was a Union Carbide and an Agnes Sentelle Brown scholar. He was a member of Who’s Who, Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa honorary fraternities, the “D” Club, Scabbard and Blade, Philanthropic Literary Society, and Phi Delta Theta fraternity. He also participated in varsity soccer and was a Lieutenant Colonel in ROTC.

Kuykendall served as Presbyterian campus pastor at Auburn University from 1965 until 1970 and interim Presbyterian campus pastor at Princeton University in 1971-72. He joined the department of religion at Auburn in 1973 as an instructor, became an assistant professor in 1975, associate professor in 1980 and chairman of the department in 1981. In 1981 and 1982 he was selected by student groups as the most outstanding teacher in the school of Arts and Sciences at Auburn. He has been a member of the board of the Alabama Council on Human Relations, a member of the advisory board of the Lee County (Ala.) Head Start Program, first vice president of the Alabama Council of College and University Faculty Presidents and national vice president of the Davidson College Alumni Association. At Auburn he was chairman of the faculty grievance and welfare committees and was chairman of the University.

(continued on page 6)

Watsons: Campbell and Moffett receive prestigious fellowship. Page 3.

Kuykendall: President-elect discusses thoughts on running a college. Page 5.

Trip: Concert Choir treks southward to find no alligators, flying elephants, and good acoustics. Page 8.

Also in Arts and Entertainment: Student-produced play, Irish Poet, and Other Bright Colors.

Spring!: Out of the Locker Room and into warm weather sports. Page 12.

Brickwork: Campbell and Gunn see J Harding House incident quickly slipping through the cracks. Page 15.