Friday, November 2, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Police Charge Two

...about parties on campus and asking for someone named “Cindy.” At one point, according to Campbell, the man asked if
she and Miller wanted to see his Halloween mask. He showed them a rubber face mask, she said. Campbell and
Miller persuaded the man to leave. When he did, Campbell locked the door and notified the police. The man, police
allege to be Wardlow, remained in the hall after leaving the room, Campbell said. Blackwell returned while police were questioning
Wardlow, according to Campbell. Police Sergeant Wayne King arrested Blackwell and Wardlow.

According to campus security officer Johnny Griffith, Blackwell flushed a watch down a toilet at the Mecklenburg County jail facility.
He said officers discovered two gold chains hidden in Blackwell’s socks. Kellam discovered two of her chains and her watch
missing Thursday morning. She identified the chains taken from Blackwell as her own, Griffith said.

Police reports and witnesses’ accounts allege that Blackwell and Wardlow had wandered around Knox for some time before their arrests.
According to sophomore Laeta Kalogridis, a first Knox resident, one of the two attempted to enter her room after she
had encountered them in the hall between 1 and 1:30 a.m. She said he repeatedly requested to talk with her.
Finally, she told him “no, and goodnight,” according to the statement she gave the police. Then, Kalogridis said, “I didn’t
call the police, [which is] about the most idiotic thing I’ve ever done in my Davidson career.” She said she
heard the two talk with others in the hall for about 30 minutes, at times making sexually suggestive remarks about
“Davidson girls.”

Symposium To Study MRI

Imaging process. According to Brockway, X-rays operate on a density principle, in which the thickest parts of the body absorb
the greatest radiation and appear most clearly, Brockway said. Thus, thin objects such as body tissues appear faintly on X-rays.
Instead, he said, Magnetic Resonance Imaging operates by manipulating the body’s hydrogen protons. These protons rotate, creating an electromagnetic field.
The MRI process sends a radio wave through the body to knock the protons out of their electromagnetic field, according
to Brockway, and obtains a picture of the object by gauging the response of the electrons.

The MRI process, Brockway said, is “very new.” Though he said the technology was introduced in the mid-1970s, and companies
such as IBM, G.E., and Inter-Magnetics produce and develop it, the only Magnetic Resonance scanners now available for use by
patients is at Charlotte Memorial Hospital. Director of Nuclear Medicine at Charlotte Memorial Hospital Dr. Edward J. Gaston will give
the second lecture concerning the practical applications of the MRI technology.

After a reception and dinner from 5:30 p.m. to 7:15 p.m., the symposium will resume with a lecture by economics
Professor John Rapoport from Mount Holyoke College. He will address the economics of advanced technology in medicine. According to Brockway,
the use of MRI “isn’t very widespread because they are so expensive.” He said a small Magnetic Resonance scanner costs
between $900,000 and $1.1 million, and a large one costs approximately $2.5 million. Constructing a room to house the complex
apparatus itself, Brockway said, costs between $500,000 and $1 million. Though a single MRI picture costs approximately $400, as opposed
to $25 for a regular X-ray, Brockway said an MRI picture’s value exceeds the price. For a serious injury, he
said “its...Not a question of choosing between one or the other. Even for people who don’t have the money, it’s
no question.”

The final lecture, beginning at 8:15 p.m., will feature Davidson philosophy Professor Lance Stell addressing “Biotechnology and Bioethics.” The issue
of MRI, he said, provides the occasion to “examine the way in which technological knowledge can raise moral questions.” Many
people, he said, can feel threatened by the “supernatural” tools of medical technology. It can increase public perception, he said,
that “the control of our destiny is slipping away.” However, he noted a “heartening” tendency among today’s doctors to consult
with patients and be responsive to their wishes.

The symposium is the third in a series of six presented by Davidson’s “New Liberal Arts Program” which began in
1982 with a $250,000 grant from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. The symposium is open free of charge.

Hwy. 115 892-3165

Video Movies
OVER 515 SELECTIONS
VHS & BETA
*4 FOR 4 DAYS
VCR Rental Machines Available
Rent Two Movies Get One FREE
Expires Nov. 9, 1984

Cathy's Book Swap
@ Tues.-Fri. 10-7
@ Sat. 10-6
Block South of CASHION’S Cornelius

Sophomore Allison Gabay told police a black male opened her door twice between 1:30 and 2 a.m. According to her
statement, Gabay asked the man what he wanted. He told her, she said, he was looking for a student named
Cindy Travis. She told him that no one by that name lived in the dorm. After the man left, according
to her statement, Gabay looked unsuccessfully for Travis in the directory.

Around 11 p.m. Wednesday, sophomores Dan Simonds and Dave Turgeon encountered a “suspicious looking guy” outside Knox dorm, according to
Turgeon. Turgeon said the man was leaving Knox with a box radio. He said they did not know the man
and had not seen him around campus. Turgeon said they questioned him, but “everything he said we knew he was
lying through his teeth.” As the man left, Turgeon and Simonds followed him, Turgeon said. The man began to run
when he noticed the students behind him. Turgeon said he and Simonds chased the man into the trees behind Fannie
& Mable, where they lost him. They recovered the radio, Turgeon said, and reported the incident to security. Turgeon said
they located the owner of the radio in Knox Dorm. Police have not linked that incident to Blackwell and Wardlow.

Kellam said she would start locking her door. “I think that people here think they live in a security haven,”
she said. “I hate that it took this to make me start locking my door.” She added that only one
other resident was present on her second Knox hall during the time her room had been entered. “Anything could have
happened, and no one would have known about it,” she said.

CAREERS and PROFESSIONAL GRADUATE PROGRAMS in GOVERNMENT & INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS

An informal discussion with representatives of both the John F. Kennedy School of Government Public Policy Program HARVARD UNIVERSITY and
the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs PRINCETON UNIVERSITY

Date: Mon., Nov. 12
Time: 9:30-10:30 & 10:30-11:30 groups
Place: Your Career Placement Center

All years, all majors welcome. For additional information, please contact your school’s Career Development/Placement Office.

Now Open Sundays 1-6pm
