Volume LXXIII, Number 24

Members of the RACE panel discuss police practices

Campus Police Practices Questioned At Forum

By DAVID McGEE

A panel including an administrator, students, Davidson police, and the Mayor of Davidson last night concluded that incidents of policemen
asking black students for identification without probable cause should receive immediate attention. Chief of Davidson Police Jack Warlick began the
discussion by asking for “openness” in solving any problems between the campus and the police. “If there are any problems,
I hope we can solve them tonight,” he said.

The discussion was the second forum sponsored by the RACE (Racial Attitudes Concerning Everyone) committee.

Dean of Students Will Terry, senior Anne Elliott, junior Rod Holman, freshman Kerry March, Political Science Professor Marry Thornberry, Mayor
Nancy MacCormac, Chief of Campus Security Jackie Hughes, and Chief Warlick made up the seven-member panel. College Chaplain Charlie Summers
moderated.

Both Warlick and Hughes summarized police operating procedures in asking students for identification. “We try our best not to harass
students,” Hughes said. Campus police, he said, only go into dorms when responding to a call. “We want to help
any way we can,” Hughes said.

Three black students on the panel told the audience of approximately 400 about several incidents in which they were stopped
by a Davidson policeman. March said at the beginning of the school year he was confronted by a Davidson Policeman
in Parks’ Rexall Drug Store.

(continued on page 5)

By DAVID VAN PELT and DAN VOORHIS

Amid protest from four campus organizations, the SGA Senate Tuesday night approved 8-6 the Activities Tax Council’s budget proposal (see
graph) for next year. Quips and Cranks, The Davidsonian, Hobart Park, and the Miscellany protested both inadequate funding and the
fairness of the ATC decision.

As soon as ATC Chairperson Ester Kim formally presented the proposal, members of the four publications presented arguments protesting the
ATC’s budget. Kim and other members of the ATC defended their decisions for over an hour and a half.

Yearbook co-editor Kathleen Micham said that rising printing costs more than outstripped the allotted $300 increase over last year’s allotment.
She explained that the difference between next year’s ATC allotment and publishing costs will leave only $85 to meet expenses
for the rest of next year. This remainder would have to cover all supplies, salaries, and production costs, she said.
Last year, Quips and Cranks had about $3000 more than printing costs for other expenses. Said Micham, “We're not asking
for a bigger book. It would be the same size, the same number of pictures, as the last three years.”

Quips and Cranks’ other co-editor Jane Campbell countered the ATC’s earlier suggestion that fundraising might help close the gap. “We
might be able to raise funds, and we'll try to fundraise as we have in the past. But we need
more than an operating budget of $85,” she said. The yearbook faces new costs, she added, including a new photograph
enlarger. Quips and Cranks requested $26,500 and received $23,300.

ATC defenders stressed the limited amount of money available. The total requests from all campus organizations added up to over
$10,000 more than was available. Union Director William Brown, an ATC member, felt that the ATC did not fully perceive
the yearbook’s plight at the time they decided the budget.

Kim replied to Micham and

(continued on page 5)

Activities Tax Budget Distribution Graph by John Gathings

1983-84/1984-85

Requested $28,000

1984-85

$15,000

$10,000

$5,000

Helen Caldicott To Speak Monday

By ROXANNA GUILFORD

Dr. Helen Caldicott, President emeritus of Physicians for Social Responsibility, will speak on “Living in the Nuclear Age” as an
internationally known opponent of both nuclear arms and nuclear power. She will appear in Love Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. next
Monday.

According to Ruth Pittard, a Charlotte member of the anti-nuclear group SANE, Caldicott opposes the very concept of “nuclearism.” Pittard
calls her the “leading female spokesman on the nuclear issue,” citing her starring role in the academy award-winning documentary film,
If You Love This Planet.

Caldicott’s activism began with her objections to the Australian nuclear power agency. She protested against the lack of worker education
on the dangers of uranium. As a physician, she dealt with the results of uranium exposure in young children.

Caldicott’s dislike of nuclear weapons is at least as strong as her dislike of nuclear power. She began her anti-nuclear
weapons campaign after the birth of her first child. In 1972, she helped bring about an end to France’s atmospheric
testing of nuclear weapons over the Pacific by mobilizing support in New Zealand and Australia.

She advocates working through the present systems to bring about the necessary changes in society. While her suggestions seem drastic
to some, she believes in doing things in stages. For instance, as Pittard points out, she advocates initially only a
nuclear arms freeze, which will eventually lead to disarmament.

In addition to Physicians for Social Responsibility, Caldicott is involved with Women’s Action for Nuclear Disarmament (WAND), an organization that
encourages people to use their votes to help eliminate the possibility of nuclear war. She is also the author of
Nuclear Madness: What Can You Do!.

Pittard terms the appearance of such a well-known speaker as “fate.” Caldicott’s agent contacted the College Union, and Union Program
Coordinator Ann Parker helped set up the event with Pittard’s help, financial assistance from numerous organizations, and the sponsorship of
the Davidson Peace Coalition.

Since various campus organizations

(continued on page 5)
