Friday, March 16, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Kubrick’s Epic Traces Man’s Evolution In Space
By Craig Detweiler

2001: A Space Odyssey — (1968). Directed by Stanley Kubrick. Starring Keir Dullea and Gary Lockwood. ****

Can brutal, primeval man, a buzzing black monolith, a dangerously “perfect” computer, and victimized astronauts be united to form a coherent, meaningful work? In 2001: A Space Odyssey, Stanley Kubrick attempts to fold these timeless, mystical elements into a consistent, monumental vision. With a brilliant amalgamation of time, soundtrack, story, special effects, and pacing, Kubrick achieves the lofty goals he sets for his film.

Kubrick aspires to cover evolution from the dawn of man to space travel in the 21st century (which explains the title 2001 rather than 2000). An undefined, pseudo-religious symbol, the black monolith coexists with man from his pre-rational stages to the depersonalized computer age. Previously defenseless and hungry, primeval ape-man displays intelligence only after the monolith mysteriously appears. In two pivotal scenes, the animalistic humans discover bones which can be used as weapons to rule lower animals and rival gangs. Once primeval man begins to manipulate his environment to his own advantage, Kubrick inserts one of the most famous transitions in film history. As a hoisted bone cuts to a floating spacecraft, one realizes how little distance separates modern man from his primitive ancestors. When scientists uncover a monolith buried on the moon, they respond with the same awe, interest, and wonder that the gorilla-men demonstrated. After suggesting the marginal “real” progress of human civilization, Kubrick provides an alarming vision of the dangers of computer technology. Under the guidance of the faultless computer H.A.L. (note what the letters following H, A, and L are), the Discovery I space mission heads for Jupiter, the site of the monolith’s only recorded transmission. As a computer with a nearly human personality, H.A.L.

The Sordid Affair
By Steve Mank

Rockabilly was the mother. In 1957 or so, in the able hands of southern white trash, rhythm and blues and country music were wed to form rave-up music that lacked everything but energy. Punk was the father. In 1977 or so, the dregs of British ghetto-dwellers instigated a reaction to the peace, love, and drugs of the sixties in which one’s talent was determined by his ability to loft spit in the direction of his anxious audience. Together the two, in some sordid, too passionate affair, produced a bastard child found in the music of The Cramps. Their new album Bad Music for Bad People is a compilation of past material. The title may seem humorous but it is no joke — this music is bad. The drumming is, to put it nicely, spartan. The rhythm guitar is nothing but power chords distorted to virtual imperceptibility, while the lead guitar is so poorly played it’s almost funny, if not pitiful. There is no bass. The songs mock their two parent music forms, but in no subtle or amusing way.

So why listen to The Cramps? In spite of its glut of shortcomings, Bad Music for Bad People is very listenable. The rhythms are gripping, the guitar work tasty, and the vocals of Lux Interior are genuinely fun. Philosophical excursions like “life is short/and full of stuff” are the trademarks of The Cramps. Their lyrics are witty, and see southern and British culture through the eyes of Yankees. Songs like “Drug Train” mock rock and roll classics like James Brown’s “Night Train” as readily as they mock the stimulant-hopped-up punks — “lift one foot up/lift another foot up/lift another foot up/and you’re on board the Drug Train.” But the best part of The Cramps is that you cannot tell whether this satire is Horatian or Juvenalian, or even worse, serious. Most everyone who listens to The Cramps likes them, but with guilty feelings; after all, here you are listening to distorted Halloween rock and tapping your feet at the same time. Yet that is just where The Cramps’ beauty — if it can be called that — lies. The music is so unabashedly bad that you are embarrassed to like it, but you do in spite of yourself. Like rockabilly, like punk, The Cramps lack everything but energy, but in the wonderful world of rock, energy is all you need to have appeal — and The Cramps have plenty of both.

Quick Pan

A deejay in Miami described Huey Lewis as “Mr. Debonair himself.” Lewis and the News have everything but energy. The new album, Sports, uses every trick in the book to sell, its ace in the hole being the hit single “I Want a New Drug,” which found inevitable public approval. But the music is still bland. Lewis is going to be famous in his time for his hit-making ability but in the long run, he will never be admired or remembered.displays a deadly will to survive. The fertile human mind creates a machine which cannot be controlled. Man degenerates from the ruler of nature to the victim of his own creation. Beyond Kubrick’s moralizing about the dangers of technology, 2001 involves ineffable, eternal truths. In the concluding section titled “Jupiter and Beyond the Infinite,” Kubrick’s masterwork becomes problematical, confusing, and downright weird. The Discovery astronaut David, eerily portrayed by Keir Dullea, experiences a psychedelic, mind-blowing journey. Bold, flashy colors and semi-terrestrial visions leave David and the viewer stunned. When the trip “beyond the infinite” ceases, the astronaut finds himself in a sterile bedroom. As David appears to age rapidly, one gathers a sense that he is an inhabitant of an alien zoo. On the verge of dying, the aged astronaut reaches to the ominous monolith looming before him. Mystically transformed to a beatific fetus, David, and mankind have come full circle. The external source of man’s intelligence and humanness elevates man to an eternal existence. Whether representative of God, aliens, or Davidson College professors, the sleek monolith brings human beings into a glorified enviable communion with nature and the universe. 2001 succeeds because of the deliberate, enthralling atmosphere that dominates its two and one-half hours. Kubrick does not rely upon the spoken word, but clever, evocative images and a stirring soundtrack. Alternating from Richard Strauss’ majestic “Thus Spoke Zarathustra” to Johann Strauss’ melodious “Blue Danube,” 2001’s soundtrack conveys appropriate tones for the scenes it enhances. The cold, sterile confines of the Jupiter spaceship are emphasized by H.A.L.’s calm, unemotional voice and the piercing alarms that indicate trouble. Even the authentic lack of sound in space evokes the distant depersonalization that characterizes the latter portion of 2001. Kubrick’s wise uses of sights and sounds result in the greatest science-fiction film ever. The lofty thoughts and issues that Kubrick aspires to make 2001 a contender for claims to the greatest movie ever. Reserve Saturday night for this mesmerizing motion picture. It will confound, scare, dazzle, and absorb all who view it. While one may not entirely comprehend its meaning and purpose, 2001: A Space Odyssey, like most great works of art, cannot ultimately be summarized or contained. It simply is.

Quiet Classic Looks For Life’s Tender Mercies
By MATT MORRIS

Can it be that America, where Brian De Palma directs orgiastic gangster films and Steven Spielberg reverts back to childhood annually, has forgotten movies that operate by the power of understatement? No, and it has taken Australian director Bruce Beresford to prove it, with this year’s best picture Tender Mercies. Of course, having brilliant actor Robert Duvall along for the ride can’t hurt. His remarkably understated performance compliments this film, which, as you’re watching it, shyly reminds you of something bigger above the humble surroundings. Beresford paints his film on a grand Texas canvas, yet Tender Mercies is never “arty” — instead the feeling is that everyone involved merely sat down and let the cameras roll, never allowing stodgy intellectualism (which could have artistically choked this movie) to enter into the set. What remains is a truly remarkable work, well worth anyone’s time, that operates primarily on what people say and do, which seems to be relatively little, but is imminently fulfilling. Robert Duvall, with grizzled chin and baseball cap, walks into the role of Mac Sledge, a troubled country and western singer who, through the course of the movie, puts together his life. And basically, that’s it. None of the affectedness that has ruined other such “slice-of-life” films trickles in, and the movie remains quietly morale-less. “I never trusted happiness,” says Mac, “I never did, I never will.” Paradoxes about happiness are as inexplicable as the people who discuss them, but in some way, when Robert Duvall says that line, living makes sense, if only for a moment. Rosalie (Tess Harper), Mac’s wife, is a simple enough woman with simple demands: she loves her child and her God. Beresford makes no “statement” here — he shows the principal characters in times of joy and, just minutes away, grief. Sure life isn’t fair, but stick with it. When Mac momentarily falls back to his drinking days, the audience roots for him to hang in, keep breathing, keep living, but for no apparent reason other than to receive the tender mercies the ones who love him will always offer. Betty Buckley of “Cats” fame turns in a memorable performance as Mac’s former wife Dixie Scott, now a popular country singer. She represents the world Sledge has left behind, but it would not be fair to say that Mac has actually gained anything by leaving Opryland. His surroundings have merely changed. He still doesn’t trust happiness. What makes Tender Mercies a quiet classic is its ability to encourage the viewer to believe in the next moment, the next second, and cherish it.