12 Friday, October 12, 1984 / The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Cross Country Representatives Go To Nationals
By ANDY BARRON

Davidson’s men’s and women’s cross country teams ran in the NAIA District 26 Meeting at Pembroke last weekend. The women’s team tied with St. Augustine for first and will go to the national championships for the third consecutive year. The men finished third overall, but will be represented at the national championships by sophomores Greg Foreman and Trey Jammes and junior Frank Hague.

Freshman Kappa Peddy led the women’s team by finishing second overall in a time of 18:39 for the three-mile course. Senior Jean Webb was next for the Cats, placing third in a time of 18:54. Freshman Laura Fannin (8th in 19:55), junior Judy Dalton (11th in 20:11), and senior Susie Dresser (15th in 20:42) completed the scoring. Though her efforts didn’t count in the score, senior captain Sarah Patterson did finally run. She didn’t score because she was not designated as a counting member of the team due to being injured all year. Patterson finished between the 12th and 13th runners despite experiencing intense pain. If she can fully recover in time for nationals, Patterson would provide the team a big boost.

In addition to some very tough competition, the men’s team had to battle a scheduling mix-up that forced them to run without warming up. Thinking the women ran first, the men did not learn they were running at 10:30 (as opposed to 11:45) until moments before the race. “I had called only a few days before to confirm the starting times,” Coach Sterling Martin said. “Whether I misunderstood what was said or I was misinformed, it doesn’t matter. I can’t say for sure that we would have done any better since Pembroke ran so well and we couldn’t possibly have caught St. Augustine.”

Foreman led the men by finishing ninth in 27:02 for the five-mile course. Hague came in 11th in 27:19 and Jammes finished 12th in 27:49. Davidson’s scoring was filled out by seniors Lanny Smith (14th in 27:53) and Jim Rogers (18th in 28:25). Freshman Bill Breidenstine came in two seconds before Rogers but did not count because he was not a designated member of the team.

“It was unfortunate we weren’t given a chance to do our best,” Hague said. “I laugh about us scrambling around, but it isn’t funny for the people that didn’t do as well as I did.”

Davidson attended the North Carolina championships yesterday and hosts its annual European Championships tomorrow.

The women’s club volleyball team finished their season this week by defeating Sacred Heart College 15-7, 15-10, 12-15, 15-7. Their record for the season was 4-3.

World Series Predictions
Bob Coxe: Tigers — 7
Mike Lufkin: Tigers — 4
Mike Mauzé: Padres — 6
Robert Deaton: Tigers — 6
Scott Huie: Padres — 4
Matt Webb: Padres — 7
Gerry Born: Tigers — 4 (Close, but no cigar)
Mike Rodriguez: Tigers — 5
Emil Parker: Padres — 6
Rob Watkins: Tigers — 5
Coach Byrd: Tigers — (85)
Rachel Henning: Braves — what?
Greg Rhodes: Tigers — 6
Jay Gaither: Padres — 7
Joe McMullen: Yankees — 7 (I doubt it)
Dave Snyder: Tigers — 5
Dr. John Kelton: Padres — 6
Steve Soud: Tigers — 5 (No Orioles, Steve?)
Jim Kelly: (Tokyo) Tigers — 7
Pete Burr: Yankees — 5 (“I like dreamin’”)
Ted Wolfe: Tigers — 6
(Twins in 3 (Say Second half Slump Sinks Cats’ Hopes For Upset
By SCOTT HUIE

Just like a broken record, the Cats stumbled across another loss in last Saturday’s Homecoming contest with The Citadel. Again, the damage was severe, a 37-14 drubbing. The scoop is basically the same, such that a generic article could be inserted here to describe the loss, or any of the other...Four previous ones for that matter. It would read the same coaches’ quotes (“For us to be successful against a team like that we have to be right all the time. We've got to have perfect execution, and that we didn’t have.”), the same basic score (about four touchdowns to two), and the same mistakes and mental breakdowns (special team breakdowns, fumbles, missed blocking assignments, penalties). Just fill in the blank with the opponent’s name.

With 4,000 fans on hand for the festivities, the Cats hung tough for the first half, spreading an inkling of hope for an upset at least until the Homecoming queen was announced. Behind by a field goal, Davidson bounced back in the second quarter. Quarterback Steve Bradley, who has been sharing QB duties with Jeff Haney all season, capped a 91-yard drive with a 10-yard touchdown completion to wingback Mike Jones. The Bulldogs returned with a touchdown and a field goal to go into the locker room at halftime leading 13-7.

The third quarter belonged entirely to the Bulldogs as they racked up 17 unanswered points and put the game out of reach. Finally, the teams traded meaningless touchdowns late in the fourth quarter to end the scoring.

“They simply got to us physically in the second half,” Coach Ed Farrell said. “The key was, we simply could not get to their quarterback, and they were all over ours. We must have lost 100 yards in sacks alone.”

Despite the Citadel’s 10 sacks, Davidson's passing attack was impressive. Bradley completed 10 of 15 passes for 125 yards and a touchdown, and Haney completed 7 of 11 passes for 68 yards. With an aerial game finally showing some promise, the running game has been consistent all year. Fullback Horace Manor leads the team with 300 yards on 71 carries (4.2 yard average), and his complement, halfback David Turner, has 255 yards on 56 attempts (4.6 average). Turner remains the Cats’ number one receiver with 23 receptions for 218 yards and three touchdowns. Defensively, end Marcus Allen leads the team with 33 tackles.

With his Cats 0-5 at midseason, Farrell issued his annual mid-term-state-of-the-team address: “So far this year, emotion has not been the problem; it’s execution. Last year we suffered from turnovers, but this year it’s more subtle mistakes: wrong blocking technique, barely missed assignments, pass patterns not run to perfection.

“Sure, there is no question that we are disappointed, but we can’t get down about it. If we work hard and nothing happens, we are not going to wave the white flag. We simply have to reach deep down, block out the past, and concentrate on the upcoming game.

“There’s a Peanuts cartoon I'd like to quote. Charlie Brown is perched on a mound after another loss and says, ‘Winning isn’t everything but losing isn’t anything.’ No matter who the opponent is, our goal will always be to win.”

Concerning tomorrow’s opponent, there is both good and bad news. First the good: James Madison (3-3) lost their last eight games last year after defeating Davidson and have lost their first two this year. The bad: they beat Davidson 50-0 last year. Last week the Dukes were impressive coming away with a last-minute 20-19 win over Delaware State. Said Farrell, “James Madison is very impressive physically and has very good skilled players, especially at running back.” Warren Marshall leads the Dukes’ rushing game with an astounding 7.0 yards per-carry average. JMU also sports a nifty place kicker who has made eight of nine field goals, including one from 53 yards.

“I will be shocked,” Farrell said, “if next Saturday we're not emotionally ready for this one. I’ve been around long enough to know that the team will be up for this one. We just need a really good week of practice.”