8 Friday, January 20, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Jack Chalker: Science Fiction Comes Of Age

By FRANCES PALMER and BECKY WATERS

“Science fiction, long the stepchild of literature, has, I believe, come of age,” writer Jack Chalker said of his genre
of fiction. The acclaimed author will speak Thursday at 2 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Science fiction appears to have been successful. In 1977, he was nominated for the John W. Campbell Award by reader
vote at the World Science Fiction Convention for the best new science fiction writer.

Following the talk and a question-and-answer period, students will have the opportunity to meet Chalker during an informal reception, also
in the Morrison Room. At 6 p.m. a sign-up dinner honoring Chalker will be held in the DuPont Room of
the Vail Commons. The Public Lectures Committee is sponsoring the event in conjunction with the Science Fiction class.

English professor Randy Nelson compares the opportunity to hear Chalker speak to that of hearing science fiction author Isaac Asimov
immediately before he received national acclaim. Nelson's science fiction class currently is studying Midnight at the Well of Souls, one
of Chalker’s best-known works.

Chalker, founder-director of Mirage Press in Baltimore, has written well over ten science fiction novels and published a significant number
of other works.

According to Nelson, it is important that liberal arts students recognize the serious implications of science fiction: “My own opinion
is that a school like Davidson is an ideal forum for review of these problems while they are still science
fiction. It is absolutely imperative that these ‘fictions’ not be turned over to the engineers and technicians completely as we
have been all too willing to do as a general population. Out of intimidation and laziness we in the liberal
arts community have already surrendered too much of our responsibility,” he said.

Chalker seems to have accepted this challenge. He comments, “In no other form of literature may serious questions be addressed
as freely and serious issues isolated more clearly.”

Chalker’s humanistic approach to science fiction appears to have been successful. In 1977, he was nominated for the John W.
Campbell Award by reader vote at the World Science Fiction Convention for the best new science fiction writer.

Following the talk and a question-and-answer period, students will have the opportunity to meet Chalker during an informal reception, also
in the Morrison Room. At 6 p.m. a sign-up dinner honoring Chalker will be held in the DuPont Room of
the Vail Commons. The Public Lectures Committee is sponsoring the event in conjunction with the Science Fiction class.

English professor Randy Nelson compares the opportunity to hear Chalker speak to that of hearing science fiction author Isaac Asimov
immediately before he received national acclaim. Nelson's science fiction class currently is studying Midnight at the Well of Souls, one
of Chalker’s best-known works.

Chalker, founder-director of Mirage Press in Baltimore, has written well over ten science fiction novels and published a significant number
of other works.

According to Nelson, it is important that liberal arts students recognize the serious implications of science fiction: “My own opinion
is that a school like Davidson is an ideal forum for review of these problems while they are still science
fiction. It is absolutely imperative that these ‘fictions’ not be turned over to the engineers and technicians completely as we
have been all too willing to do as a general population. Out of intimidation and laziness we in the liberal
arts community have already surrendered too much of our responsibility,” he said.

Chalker seems to have accepted this challenge. He comments, “In no other form of literature may serious questions be addressed
as freely and serious issues isolated more clearly.”

---

KING OF PIZZA
663-3030
225 S. Broad St.
Mooresville

FAMILY NIGHT
Every Monday Night
5 To 10

PIZZA
BUY ONE PIZZA (ANY SIZE)
GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE FREE

---

St. George's University School of Medicine Grenada, West Indies 892-3010

The M.S./M.D. Option
A Joint Biomedical Science Program of St. George's University School of Medicine and Barry University.

ST. GEORGE’s takes pride in announcing its eligibility for the GUARANTEED STUDENT LOAN PROGRAM Sponsored by The United States Dept.
of Education

1982 Educational Commission For Foreign Medical Graduates Exam Results

...for U.S. Citizens passing ECFMG in medicine from all schools in English speaking countries with 5 or more exams taken

SCHOOL & COUNTRY % PASSING
St. George's University, Grenada 80%
Royal Coll. of Surg., Ireland 75%
Univ. of the Philippines, Philippines 75%
Kasturba Med. Coll., India 60%
Cebu Institute of Medicine, Philippines 47%
Univ. of the East, Philippines 44%
Lyceum Northwestern, Philippines 44%
Far Eastern University, Philippines 43%
American U. of the Caribbean, Montserrat 41%
Perpetual Help Coll. of Laguna, Philippines 40%
Ross University, Dominica 39%
Univ. of the West Indies, Jamaica 33%
St. Louis University, Philippines 33%
Southwestern University, Philippines 32%
Virgen Milagrosa Inst. of Med., Philippines 29%
Manila Central University, Philippines 16%
Saint Lucia Health Sciences Univ., St. Lucia 15%

The above rankings were taken from “Results of 1982 ECFMG Examinations” published by The Educational Committee for Foreign Medical Graduates,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

For inquiries regarding this unique program commencing in May of 1984, contact: St. George's University School of Medicine Grenada, West
Indies

United States and Canadian citizens may direct inquiries to The North American correspondent: C.V. RAO, Ph.D. Foreign Medical School Services
One East Main Street Bay Shore, New York 11706 (516) 665-8500

---

A legal career in three short months

Get right into law with intensive preparation approved by the American Bar Association.

After completing the three-month program, you can take your place as a legal assistant. It's one of the fastest growing
careers of the 80’s.

- Bachelor’s degree or attorney sponsorship required.
- Day and Evening classes available.
- Employment assistance.
- Classes conducted in Atlanta.

Friday, February 3, 1984 Placement Office 9:00-12:00

(404) 266-1060

---

The National Center for Paralegal Training
3414 Peachtree Road, N.E., Atlanta, GA 30326

Name
Address
City State Zip
College/University
Phone: Day Evening
