8 Friday, April 27, 1984 / The Davidsonian

OPINIONS

Resurgence Of Absolutism Makes Matters Worse

David Resnik and Ross Holt

Being the relativist, skeptical, materialist barbarians that we are, we could not resist pouncing on Bill Bugg’s fresh slab of
rhetorical beef, “America’s Departure From Its Christian Roots” in last week’s Davidsonian. Rather than waste time butchering each section of
this carcass, we will instead address several fishy general points, and let those savage jurors on the Court of Public
Opinion devour anything left.

Historical Inaccuracies

Any attempt to uncover a historical assumption will be open to debate. One can always find a historian (or First
Amendment scholar or U.S. president) to speak to any side of any issue. However, an overwhelming amount of evidence calls
into question some of Mr. Bugg’s historical claims.

Mr. Bugg argues our founding fathers were not notably influenced by “rationalism and deism stemming from the Enlightenment.” This is
far from the case. The political and economic foundations of our government come directly from the political philosophies of Thomas
Hobbes, John Locke, Adam Smith, and Jean-Jacques Rousseau. Hobbes and Locke were the precursors of the Enlightenment; Smith wrote in
the middle of it. With the exception of Rousseau, all advocated a system of government based on individual self-interest —
a far cry from Christian altruism. Their systems were built upon Hobbesian psychology, which held that man was motivated only
by appetites and aversions resulting from sensory stimuli.

In the Federalist Papers (the justifications behind the Constitution), James Madison makes it clear that the U.S. government ought to
regulate itself by allowing self-interested factions and individuals to check peacefully each other’s authority. This would, the founding fathers planned,
permit citizens to pursue fulfillment of their self-interest while protecting them from institutionalized oppression — both civil and ecclesiastical.

Mr. Bugg also states that Thomas Jefferson did not intend “total alienation of religion from government,” and asserts that Jefferson’s
main concern was preventing Anglicanism from becoming the state religion in Virginia. Mr. Bugg has obviously never read (or missed
the point of) Jefferson's “Bill for Establishing Religious Freedom in Virginia,” written in 1777:

We the General Assembly of Virginia do enact that no man shall be compelled to frequent or support any religious
worship, place, or ministry whatsoever, nor shall be enforced, restrained, molested, or burdened in his body or goods, nor shall
otherwise suffer, on account of his religious opinions or belief; but that all men shall be free to profess, and
by argument to maintain, their opinions in matters of religion, and that the same shall in no wise diminish, enlarge,
or affect their civil capacities... [We] do declare, that the rights hereby asserted are of the natural rights of mankind,
and that if any act shall be hereafter passed to repeal the present or to narrow its operation, such act
will be an infringement of natural right.

Jefferson was an Enlightenment Deist; he even sponsored a version of the New Testament in which all references to the
deity or supernatural nature of Jesus were removed. These inaccuracies reveal Mr. Bugg’s Christian bias in viewing history, and call
into question his other historical claims.

Informal Fallacies

Throughout his essay, Mr. Bugg appeals to numerous authorities (Ronald Reagan, “First Amendment scholar” James McClellan, Harvard historian Perry Miller,
who is “an atheist,” and so on). Why should we be swayed by these people? It seems that Mr. Bugg
has found a variety of pedants who support his views and is unwilling to look at other arguments. Further, he
offers no evidence (theirs or his own) to support the assertions of these people.

Toward the end of his essay, he commits the obvious fallacy of argumentum ad hominem when he characterizes all who
choose not to follow the way he has chosen as “barbarians.” He also employs “relativism” as a buzzword in relation
to this barbarianism. He says, “we do not try to expose students to values. We say that there are no
absolutes, that everything is relative.” Relativism does not connote absence of values. One can hold his or her own values
strongly and still recognize and respect the right of others to hold theirs.own.

A New World

Even if we grant Mr. Bugg all his historical assumptions, this still would not imply that the Constitution favored government
endorsement of Christianity. It is one thing for the writers of the Constitution to be themselves practicing Christians; it is
an entirely different thing for them to have formed the Constitution in a Christian framework. We would direct Mr. Bugg
to the letters and writings of Washington, Adams, Jefferson, and Madison, among others, which stress tolerance of other religions (not
denominations), and which advocate a clear distinction between civil and ecclesiastical authority.

Still, even if we grant Mr. Bugg that the founding fathers intended the Constitution to endorse Christianity, why should we,
in the late 20th Century, ignore 200 years of rapid change in favor of an outmoded religious mindset? The changes
which have occurred are more than just changes in values. Technology and scientific understanding, as well as an increased social
awareness, have entirely altered our social structures and modes of thought.

Mr. Bugg would, apparently, say these changes are detrimental, even evil. Trying to revert, however, to some ideal past that
may never even have existed would be like trying to put out a grease fire with holy water. The mindset
of the country has changed over 200 years, as has the mindset of the world. Our country has developed many
different value systems; the Constitution as a secular document has prevented, for the most part, violently destructive factional or sectarian
conflict.

All over the world, political and religious systems which do not conform to ours are becoming increasingly more important to
our interests. We can no longer push these countries around and expect them to bow before our red, white, and
blue altar. To assert dogmatically some ideal Christian heritage and trumpet those ideals as absolute truth would be sheer folly.
And even if we “returned” to the supposed religion of our forefathers, which religion would it be? Adams’ Calvinism, Jefferson’s
Deism, Washington’s providential Christianity, or any other of the dozens of early American Christian sects?

The founding fathers were quite sensitive to the sectarian strife that had torn Europe apart for generations, and saw a
great potential for it here if religion was not solely the province of the individual. Today, Jesse Helms and Jesse
Jackson both claim to be Christians, but their brands of Christianity have almost mutually exclusive political connotations. The fundamental question,
were we to call our government “Christian,” would be, whose Christianity should we institute?

Even if we could somehow manage to arrive at a consensus there, what would become of non-Christian religions? Does Mr.
Bugg seriously think we could program Christian prayer into public schools and then claim to tolerate other value systems? Has
he ever felt the alienation of a Jewish child — or an atheistic child — who must face the scorn
of his or her peers when he or she must be escorted from the classroom as a prayer begins because
of his or her parents’ beliefs? It is exactly this type of tyranny of the majority against which the Constitution
— as the founding fathers designed it — defends.

Conclusion

If our society is deteriorating (which is questionable itself), a reactionary resurgence of absolutism will only make matters worse. History
has shown that those who think they possess the absolute truth usually end up persecuting those with differing views. As
Jacob Bronowski put it in The Ascent of Man, “There are two parts to the human dilemma. One is the
belief that the end justifies the means . . . The other is the betrayal of the human spirit: the
assertion of dogma that closes the mind, and turns a nation, a civilization, into a regiment of ghosts — obedient
ghosts or tortured ghosts.” Now more than ever, tolerance is at a premium. The price of intolerance is just too
high.

Holt is a junior political science major from Asheboro, NC and Editor of The Davidsonian. Resnik is a junior philosophy
major from Chapel Hill, NC, and an Editor Emeritus of The Davidsonian.
