8 Friday, September 28, 1984 / The Davidsonian —

SPORTS

By BOYD BLACKBURN

The Davidson soccer team had a mediocre week as it lost to N.C. State 5-0 in Raleigh and beat a
weak Guilford team 3-1 here on Tuesday.

Against N.C. State, Davidson was down 3-0 at the half and never led in the game. State is undefeated this
year and is what Davidson Coach Charlie Slagle called, “the most talented team we play this year.” They are undefeated
and currently ranked 3rd in the South.

Scenes from this week’s soccer games

Soccer Team Wins, Loses During Lackluster Week

The Wildcats had a few chances to score, including a 40-yard shot by junior Bill Coxhead that grazed over the
crossbar. That shot would have tied the game at 1-1, but such chances were few and far between. On the
other side of the field, the State forwards were giving the Davidson fullbacks more than they could handle.

Davidson defeated Guilford Monday, pulling the game out in the last few minutes after it was tied 1-1 for almost
all of the second half.

With five minutes left, freshman Craig Mattison threw the ball into the net from the sideline. His throw-ins had been
creating trouble for Guilford in the second half, but nobody expected one to go in the goal by itself. Two
minutes later Mattison scored again.

Sophomore goalie Jim Kelly drop-kicked a long ball which sophomore Steve Stith nudged to junior forward Tony Cabrales. Cabrales took
it to the endline and rolled it past the goalie to Mattison, who pushed the ball into the open net.

It was a nice finish to an otherwise poor game. Davidson had taken many shots but had scored just once
on a shot by junior Wallis Goodman.

Davidson's record now stands at 2-4-1. Next week conference games start, with games at V.M.I. and Appalachian State.

Cats Winless So Far After Loss To Newberry

By SCOTT HUIE

The Wildcats may have the dubious distinction of going winless this season, and the prospects for such a finish are
disheartening. But in the aftermath of last Saturday's 28-14 loss to Newberry, one has to wonder.

With a schedule that almost weekly pits Davidson against a slew of Goliaths, the Wildcats can ill afford losing those
rare games where the odds are in their favor, or at least close to it. Two of those “very winnable”
games are in the past, needless to say as losses: this one and last week's loss to Guilford. Two more
lurk ahead, Wofford and Catawba, but the numbers are quickly diminishing.

About the game, Coach Ed Farrell said, “I’m very disappointed because our material is comparable to theirs, so if we
play well we win. Once again, the culprit was breakdowns, mostly mental. Statistically, it was an even game. So if
you take away their big plays, it was anybody’s game.”

But this one belonged to Newberry, especially after their first two possessions. Both ended in touchdowns and on both the
dreaded halfback pass did the Cats in. The first was a 45-yard strike which came on the fifth play of
the game. That set up a nifty 20-yard touchdown jaunt by Newberry’s tailback.

The Cats apparently did not learn their lesson, so the Indians came back the next time they got the ball.
Same play, different actors, same results, only better — a 65-yard halfback pass for a touchdown. Newberry led 14-0.

The lead was upped to 21 on Newberry’s next possession in the long grind-it-out fashion, a 13-play 73-yard drive.

The Cats responded with their own long drive before halftime. Backup QB Steve Bradley entered the game and drove the
team 70 yards, a drive capped off by fullback Horace Manor’s one-yard touchdown run.

Playing catch-up is not the brand of football Farrell relishes, and his Cats failed at it in the second half.
Trying to gain a swing of momentum, Bradley was driving the Cats in the third quarter. A miscued pass, however,
found an Indian linebacker, who returned the interception 53 yards for a score.

Davidson made a fourth-quarter run which started in impressive fashion. Tailback David Turner split two defenders deep in Newberry territory
and caught a spectacular pass from Bradley. That put the Cats on the five, from where Bradley teamed with tight
end Scotty Brendle for the touchdown pass. But that ended the scoring.

Defensively, linebacker Micah Downing stole the show with 12 tackles. The offense provided a balanced attack, keyed perhaps by Bradley’s
116 yards of passing.

For those who thought Newberry was tough, as the saying goes, you ain’t seen nothing yet. Pennsylvania (1-0) is Davidson’s
opponent tomorrow. The teams will clash in 60,000-seat Franklin Field in Philadelphia on astroturf under the night lights.

When Davidson scheduled this game five years ago, Penn rested securely at the bottom of the Ivy League. For the
last two years, however, they have shared the league championship. Last week, they clobbered highly respected Dartmouth 55-24, rolling up
538 yards of offense.

“Pennsylvania is a formidable opponent,” Farrell said.

Commented Penn coach Jerry Berndt, “Davidson is our home opener and we cannot afford a letdown.”
