8 Friday, January 13, 1984 / The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Basketball Team Upsets Furman, South Carolina

By STEVE SOUD

After a Christmas break with a dismal dearth of wins (the Cats lost in succession to the Citadel, Miami of
Ohio, and McNeese State), an extraordinarily young basketball team won big games at the wire over Furman and South Carolina
before succumbing to UNCC Monday night.

Furman

The Wildcats stunned a more experienced Furman team in Greenville, 70-65.

Down by ten points with eight minutes remaining, Davidson played an inspired, unrelenting brand of ball that turned a Paladin
gimme into a Wildcat upset. On defense, the young Cats did whatever was necessary: good block-outs, a key steal, forcing
off-balance shots.

On offense, Gerry Born and Kenny Wilson made big three-point plays while Pepper Bego launched a soaring three-point field goal.
Then, with 2:33 remaining, freshman Chris Heineman sank a 19-footer to put Davidson ahead, 63-62. Free throws built the lead
to 68-62 in the last minute, but Furman cut into that with a three-pointer of their own. A second Paladin
three-point try missed, and Bego scored a layup at the buzzer to make it 70-65.

The game evened each team’s Southern Conference record at 1-1. Wilson scored 22, Bego 16, and Ted Wolfe 10.

South Carolina

“It wasn’t the prettiest, but we'll take it,” Hussey said of his team’s 53-52 upset of the highly regarded Gamecocks.
“Our guys played the hardest of any team I've seen this year.”

Essentially, the Wildcats combined sophomore Pepper Bego's deft (6 of 9), arching outside shot with Kenny Wilson's pulverizing all-around game.

Bego’s ACBM (Anti-Carolina Ballistic Missiles) prompted Gamecock Coach Bill Foster to say, “You might have to check him for a
hernia.” Wilson’s outstanding numbers spoke for themselves: 14 of 20 from the field, six rebounds, and one blocked shot for
29 points.

South Carolina took a scant 24-23 lead into the locker room at halftime, but three quick Wildcat baskets (one Jim
McConkey jumper and two KW baskets that included a dunk) moved Davidson ahead, 29-24.

As the minutes waned and Davidson’s lead was never more than three points, the young Cats showed considerable poise. McConkey
hit a clutch baseline jumper, and Ted Wolfe made a heady time-out call when he couldn’t inbound the ball. To
worsen matters, officials made several less-than-judicious calls against the Cats, yet they retained their poise. Hussey said, “Any time you
have three sophomores, one freshman, and one senior out there, we'll take a close win.”

UNCC

Davidson dropped to a 2-6 deficit in the annual battle for the Hornet’s Nest Trophy in a 61-56 loss to
the 49ers.

An enthusiastic crowd of 5,311 saw an inspired UNCC team leap to a 9-1 lead with 14:48 left in the
first half. By that juncture, the 49ers held a 40-27 lead due mostly to 70.4 percent shooting from the field.
On offense, they couldn’t miss; on defense, they played Coach Hal Wissel’s “Hustleball” to the hilt.

The second half, however, belonged to Davidson. Playing mostly man-to-man defense, the Wildcats shut down UNCC star Melvin Johnson. This
attack, spearheaded by Gerry Born, held Johnson to 2 points and 2 rebounds in the second half.

Meanwhile, Kenny Wilson (23 points), with solid assistance from Born (12 points), led the Cats back on an exciting rally
that cut the deficit back to 52-48 with 4:36 remaining.

The game came down to the free throw line, and UNCC couldn’t hit. But each of the key rebounds hit
off the back of the rim and flew outside and into 49ers hands. The Cats sealed their fate by missing
their own clutch shots down the stretch. The team isn’t dwelling on it, though; a vengeant Furman looms here tomorrow
night.

Conference Notes

The Southern Conference should again enjoy a year of parity if early season indications are reliable. A surprising Citadel squad
upset Marshall, generally conceded second in preseason polls. Meanwhile, VMI stunned East Tennessee State in Johnson City, then ETSU upset
Western Carolina in Cullowhee. So hold on for the ride. Kenny Wilson's 19.1 ppg ranks him around 3rd in the
conference. Davidson leads the SC in defensive field goal percentage.

Hernandez Quits Team

By STEVE BYERS

Rafael Hernandez quit the Davidson basketball team and subsequently left Davidson Dec. 14. Hernandez, a 6-6 sophomore from Fayetteville, N.C.,
was averaging 9.3 points and 7.8 rebounds a game.

According to senior co-captain Kenny Wilson, who played with Hernandez for one year at South View High School, his decision
was not unexpected by the team. Wilson said Hernandez had the chance to be a great player, but the team
and the coaching staff were having to make too many concessions and compromises to accommodate Hernandez. Wilson suggested that Hernandez’s
problems were largely mental. “Something had to give,” was Wilson’s comment. Wilson added that though the team will miss Hernandez’s
basketball talents, they will be better off down the road for having a more unified team. Wilson said the incident
is largely forgotten by the team.

Coach Bobby Hussey imposed a one-game suspension on Hernandez before the Citadel game. Hernandez, however, chose to leave school. Apparently,
the turning point in the affair occurred in the game against the University of the South, when Hernandez said he
was benched after grabbing a rebound and then committing a turnover.

Hussey said Hernandez “had indicated several times in the last two months that he is no longer interested in playing
basketball and no longer interested in attending college because of the day-to-day discipline that is required to be a successful
student and athlete.”

Jim McConkey, Gerry Born, and Ted Wolfe will share time at Hernandez’s starting forward spot.
