THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXIV, Number 9
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Wednesday, December 5, 1984

Kuykendall May Name New A.D. This Week
By ANDREA DIEDRICH

College President John Kuykendall may name the new College athletic director late this week. According to search committee Chairman J.
B. Stroud, the College is negotiating with one of three candidates his committee recommended for the job. Stroud said the
search committee completed its interviews and sent the names of three candidates to Kuykendall. Since then, he said, the College
has offered the position to one person on the list and is currently trying to arrange terms of employment.

The President’s office has not released the names of the candidates. Stroud said the committee narrowed a field of 175
applicants to 15 and then to five, whom they invited for interviews. The five applicants met with the search committee
and other college officials during 24-hour visits to the campus in October, he said. Officials meeting with the candidates included
Kuykendall, football Coach Ed Farrell, basketball Coach Bobby Hussey, Vice-President for Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty T. C. Price
Zimmermann, admissions Director John Griffith, Wildcat Club director Sandy Carnegie, and members of the faculty advisory committee on athletics. Applicants
also met with players and SGA members.

After the interview process, each interviewer wrote out their perceptions of the strengths and weaknesses of each candidate, Stroud said.
The search committee then reviewed each applicant a final time. One of the five applicants took another job, and another
“wasn't quite right,” Stroud said, so the search committee ranked the three remaining candidates and submitted its report to Kuykendall.

In looking for someone to fill the athletic director’s position, Stroud said the search committee placed emphasis on finding someone
with “a sense of integrity, intelligence, and energy.”

By RICHARD CLOUDT

“Service is the essence of Dan Rhodes’ life both by conviction and commitment,” said Religion department Chairman Sam Maloney at
the November faculty meeting. After serving the College and community for over 24 years, Rhodes has announced his retirement. Maloney
said the veteran religion and philosophy professor has “done a great deal, and we’ll miss him.”

Rhodes contributed to the foundation of Davidson’s Humanities Program, and was head of the Community Relations Committee through which he
helped establish the Lakeside Park for lower-income members of the Davidson community. He led the group that started the Humanities
program here in 1961, and served as chairman until 1981. He also served as chairman of the Religion department from
1961 to 1983. Max Polley, chairman of the first year (continued on page 4)

Daniel Rhodes Announces Retirement After 24 Years

Dean Terry Proposes Change In Class
By TED WILSON

The dreaded 8 a.m. class will vanish from College schedules if a proposed schedule change is approved, to be replaced
by an 8:20 a.m. first class. The change would create a late-morning break to provide “an opportunity for the school
and community to get together,” according to Dean of Students Will Terry.

Terry proposed the change to the SGA Senate at the request of the Faculty Executive Committee. SGA President John Laughlin
said, “Terry brought it to us to present it to the students,” who informally have “expressed mixed feelings” about it.

If adopted, the revised class schedule will move the first class to 8:20 a.m.; the second to 9:20; the third
to 10:20; a break would fall between 11:10 to 12:00; and afternoon classes would be held at 12, 1, and
2 p.m. College Registrar Richard Burts said the free period would serve a variety of functions: on Monday, independent study
conferences would be held; student activities and committee meetings wouldWell, as someone who had experience with a Division I program
and an institution like Davidson.” He said applicants generally held degrees ranging from bachelor’s degrees to doctorates in educational administration.
The athletic director's duties include organization of the intercollegiate athle- (continued on page 4)

Racial / Ethnic Group Releases 77-Page Report
By ALLISON WILLS

The Racial/Ethnic Concerns Task Force was to release a 77-page report today which recommends policy for improving the situation here
for minorities. All twenty members of the committee appointed by President John Kuykendall signed the report after reaching a consensus
on the recommendations. The report concludes an intensive four-month study of racial problems which included subcommittee meetings and consultations with
outside experts. A series of forums and panels will now consider the report, and the task force is anxious to
get feedback from the community according to committee Co-chairmen John Griffith and Bruce Jackson. Both declined to comment on the
specifics of the report until it is released to the community. But they did say they are “expecting a lot
of interest and spirited discussion about it.”

Jackson and Griffith urge that students “not be intimidated by the bulk.” “It’s double-spaced and structured so that the introductions
give you an idea of what each section says,” Griffith said. The report “includes a proposed policy statement, nine areas
of concern identified by the task force followed by strategies for those areas and guidelines for monitoring progress in the
nine areas,” he said. Formal community response will begin Dec. 9 when fifteen members of the black community — appointed
by the President — will meet on campus with the task force chairmen. This meeting is expected to culminate in
a short written assessment to the task force. Faculty members will have a chance to discuss the report with task
force members at a Jan. 9 forum, and students will respond the following night. Griffith said that more forum-time is
available, but “we ask that specific recommendations be put in writing to Dr. Jackson or me.” Until the January forums,
it is “time to talk and discuss amongst members of the community and also with members of the task force,”
he said. “The members are all committed to seeing progress made... as the community responds to the nine areas of
concern, they may come up with better strategies.” Only 1,000 copies of the lengthy document will be printed because of
the cost. One copy will be placed in all faculty and staff mailboxes, and students can pick up one in
the library or the Union. Jackson and Griffith encouraged roommates to share a single copy. Committee members include Grit (continued
on page 4)

Schedule

be planned on Tuesdays, Wednesday would be left open; on Thursday, the school would host speakers and hold assemblies; and
Friday would be “coffee and cokes” day. Terry said the main attractions of a new schedule would be the convenience
of classes beginning at 8:20 instead of 8 a.m., and the opportunities to hear speakers, attend services, and draw together
the school and community. Concerning the morning break from class, Burts said, “We can afford to lose the [11 o'clock]
hour if we use the 8:20-9:10 and 1:00-1:50 hours to the same extent that we use late morning classes now.”
He said we now have 18 classes at 8 a.m., whereas there are between 35 and 38 offered at 9,
10, and 11 a.m. “If [more] courses were shifted to 8 a.m. and 1 p.m., the plan would work, there's
nothing to talk about.” Burts deemphasizes the effect of a new schedule on laboratory commitments. “Two thirds of the students
don't have lab obligations of any kind. They would be able to take [more] afternoon (continued on page 4)
