Friday, May 11, 1984 / The Davidsonian 5

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Class Of ’84 Last To Remember Slater’s Delicacies

By SCOT MYERS

Dinner was burnt, dried ham again. The milk was just about sour. The instant potatoes smacked of aluminum and all of the lettuce on the salad bar was turning brown. In other words, dinner as usual.

On my plate, I had concocted another masterpiece in organic still life. My ham was huddled in the top corner of the tray with sculpted mashed potatoes streaking across the top and curving down toward my plate. Kernels of dull, yellow corn were meticulously shoved in the potatoes making the rough pattern of a serpent. Cherry Kool-Aid, poured onto the tray, created a veritable ocean of blood. It was perfect, ready for the dishwashers.

After I put my tray in the rack, I began to walk out the door of Richards. On the edge of the salad bar by the door, I saw a huge, virgin bowl of coleslaw. With an evil smile, I thrust my hand into the bowl, grabbed a handful, turned, and flung it at some girl. That’s how I remember eating at Richards and Bailey. I don’t even remember who that girl was. I pray she does not remember me. But, hey, we were freshmen. It was allowed.

The Class of 1984 will be the last Davidson students to recall the joys and horrors of eating at those two houses. Bailey and Richards were replaced by the Vail Commons and Carl Pritchard’s quaint little restaurant in a cavern.

Richards and Bailey were from a different age. They were like any other Patterson Court house, except they were mainly for freshmen. Practically every hall had their own special time for dinner. We would all march down past Richardson Dorm, PiKA, across the boards, through the mud, and make that awful decision again. Richards or Bailey? Which house should we grace with our presence tonight? For some reason, most people went the extra five yards to Richards. It was slightly larger than Bailey, but the food was the same.

I was on First Center East. We tended to eat at Bailey, the house closest to PiKA, where half of that hall ended up. Of course, after the coleslaw incident, I was a bit leery of going into Richards anyway. We would then go through a food line less than half the size of that in the Commons and eat at a few rocky tables and chairs. When weather permitted, we ate out on the back porch, sitting on the wall. I would have gotten a salad, but three days earlier I had seen a big, pink caterpillar in the lettuce bowl and decided against it. It always made meals an adventure. You never knew just what beast might meet you in your food.

The food was catered by A.R.A. Slater Company. It’s frightening to think that they also provide food for a number of other colleges throughout the country. Fair’s fair, though. I always knew that the food would be no better even if I transferred to another school. Food just like mom’s! I hate to think that’s why I stayed at Davidson. My mom’s in jail for killing eight people with her tuna casserole.

Food was dished out by women at least three times as big as any football player and twice as big as any sophomore girl this school’s ever seen. But they always had a smile on their faces. It always reminded me of the kind of smile a priest would give right before the executioner throws the switch.

We had a rotational menu; the same food every three weeks. College suicides went up every time the week for vegetarian meatloaf came around. But the buns were always perfect. They could knock a guy on his rear from a hundred paces if your aim was true. I wonder what they tasted like?

What the food lacked in taste, it made up for in versatility. Green jello could not only be sucked out of the bowl with a single breath, but it could be mashed between napkins and flashed at girls as great globs of green snot. Cornbread could not only be dipped in greasy gravy, but it could be split in half and skimmed across lakes. Best of all, coleslaw was not just a garnish for barbecue that had little things grinded in it that still give me the heebie-jeebies, but it could be whipped at girls you neither knew nor liked.

And then, maybe once a term, there would be that special day when the food flew freely. Somebody from Third West would toss a biscuit at someone from Second Center and Boom! The battle lines were drawn and the mashed potatoes exploded on the wall. Some girl (who I do remember) stood up and told us how immature we all were. Wham! Coleslaw from two sides. She didn’t look all that mature after that. I must admit, we did get in trouble for that one.

That kind of freshmen frivolity is lost in the Commons where flipping a margarine patty is met with a fine, people study for exams and faculty join the freshmen for lunch. I’m not sure, but I don’t think a fac-ulty member ever set foot inside Richards or Bailey. Heck, even the house manager never set foot in the buildings when students were chowing down or ducking down. Both buildings could have fit inside one half of the Commons and yet I never recall a line as long as the line in the Commons at 6 p.m. Of course, the food in the Commons is much better than Slater. Perhaps, it’s worth the wait. There is, of course, no reason why freshmen shouldn’t delight in eating at the Commons. It has good service, good food, music, and air conditioning. As freshmen, we had good service, bad food, conversation, and an old fan.

Defeated Idealism Underscores The Big Chill
By CRAIG DETWEILER

The Big Chill (1983): Directed by Lawrence Kasdan. Starring Glenn Close, Kevin Kline, William Hurt, Mary Kay Place, Jeff Goldblum, JoBeth Williams, Tom Berenger, Meg Tilly, and Don Galloway. Viewers Guide: *** 1/2.

Advertised as “the feel-good movie of 1983,” featuring an upbeat, Motown-based soundtrack, and focusing upon the rebellious 1960s, The Big Chill may appear to be a jubilant celebration of an idealistic period. In reality, The Big Chill explores broken relationships, an unretrievable past, and unrealized dreams. Kasdan’s film manages to entertain and challenge the viewer. In a refreshing break from the current pyrotechnics of American cinema, The Big Chill relies upon an intelligent screenplay, a brilliant cast, and a perceptive audience to succeed. Having written the screenplays for Raiders of the Lost Ark and The Empire Strikes Back, Kasdan delivers a surprisingly thoughtful, evocative script.

In the creative opening sequence, the viewer gets cued that The Big Chill will be about people, not laser guns. As the seven close friends, who all attended the University of Michigan in the late 1960s, converge upon the funeral of a collegemate, one understands that emotions, memories, and talk will dominate the picture.

In such a literate movie, a substantial burden falls upon the cast to carry the talky scenes. Beyond the insightful script, a solid ensemble composed of fast-rising young stars creates a sense of camaraderie that envelopes the audience. One comes to care about the characters because of the love and unity displayed on screen. In a time of grief, the college buddies reunite to console and recreate the open love of their past.

From the initial warmth generated on screen, a more pessimistic mood gradually comes across. Meg (Place), a corporate lawyer, reveals her disappointment in her consistently guilty clients. She entered law to defend falsely accused rebels, prevalent in the turbulent 1960s. Meg ends up defending “scum.” The hosts for the weekend reunion, Harold (Kline) and Sarah (Close) also exhibit hints of depression. A successful physician, Sarah recalls that she was “at my best with you people,” and “hates to think it was all... fashion.” While all appears rosy on the outside, the characters reveal a deep dissatisfaction at where they are versus where they hoped to be. A “supermom” housewife, Karen (Williams), expresses regret that she did not marry Sam (Berenger), a Magnum-like TV star. As the seven friends continue to reflect upon their past, Chloe (Tilly), girlfriend of the deceased Alex, provides dramatic perspective. A significantly younger child of the 70s, Chloe notes that her friends “don’t like talking about the past.” Meg observes that she often “puts the past down just so she can live with the present.” These blossoming products of the 1960s understand that their dreams haven’t come to fruition. To lessen their hurt and disappointment, they alter the 1960s as they really were.

The Big Chill focuses upon the present by discussing the past. The death of Alex can be equated with the death of the 1960s. The days at the University of Michigan cannot be recreated, only remembered. Beneath the jovial spirit of recalling the good ol’ days, an extremely serious, depressing truth lurks. Untainted lives and loves from the past become less rosy at this reunion. Harold, an athletic shoe mogul, betrays himself and his ethics by revealing a corporate secret to Nick, a drop-out drug dealer. The pure, unrealized love of Sam and Karen comes up empty. The empty language and looks of their “morning after” scene undermines free, noncommittal love of the 1960s. The vigorously opposed big business establishment and joyously celebrated free love of the past have been raped and abandoned. Nick (Hurt), the only character who has not dropped his rebellious ideals, embodies the life of those who remained faithful to the 1960s. In a hilarious and horrifying interview with himself on videotape, Nick shows his brilliant potential which has been ruined by a life chained to drugs.

While a light spirit permeates The Big Chill, a sobering reality undergirds it. As idealistic college students, we approach The Big Chill with faith in ourselves, a canonization of the 1960s, and a love of good times. Do not allow these rosy filters to obscure the point of this enjoyable and enlightening film. Kasdan’s characters find their love was minimal, their commitment to change superficial, and their pursuit in life unsatisfying. Like most great films, The Big Chill offers grand entertainment and tough questions for those who dare to ask them.