Wednesday, December 12, 1984 / The Davidsonian

By STEVE BYERS

State may be good, but who knows? The Wolfpack hasn’t exactly challenged itself so far; compare their non-conference schedule with
Louisville’s. Georgetown looks awesome, but I still want to see an opponent run a disciplined offense against the Hoyas, which
excludes DePaul, UNLV, and Houston. Expanding the NCAA Tournament to 64 teams virtually renders the regular season meaningless. Here is
my “pre-season” All-America team: Patrick Ewing, Dwayne “the Pearl” Washington, Chris Mullin, Wayman Tisdale, Keith Lee. Now for my All-ACC
squad: Lorenzo Charles, Len Bias, Johnny Dawkins, Kenny Smith, Mark Alarie/Adrian Branch (tie).

Second, pro basketball: Michael Jordan. What else can you say?

Third, pro football: Miami has looked very vulnerable recently, which might open the door for Seattle, Denver, or L.A. in
the AFC playoffs. Here’s my opinion: if the Seahawks can gain the home field advantage for the playoffs, they will
go to the Super Bowl. If not, I predict another Raiders-Dolphins clash in the Orange Bowl, this time for the
AFC Championship. Should that happen, I couldn’t bet against L.A., no matter how good Dan Marino is. In the NFC,
the only sure thing is that San Francisco will enjoy the home field advantage all the way up to and
including the Super Bowl (this time in Palo Alto, California). So who can derail the 49’ers? The Bears? No. The
Rams? Wrong. Anybody in the NFC East? Probably not, though Washington has the best chance of stopping San Francisco somewhere
along the line. I’ve got to go with the 49’ers however—they’re peaking at just the right time.

Okay, okay, let’s get to the good stuff. Let’s analyze the college football bowl picture. And barring something unforeseen, New
Year's Day could prove to be a new low in pigskin excitement. Unless BYU fails to show for the Holiday
Bowl, the age-old question of “Who’s Number One?” will have already been decided come January 1. But there could be
some good games.

Holiday: BYU vs. Michigan. Potentially the biggest mismatch of the season. The Wolverines are terrible and didn’t even deserve a
bowl bid. BYU, of course, is ranked No. 1 after playing a very weak schedule. But the Cougars can throw
the football with the best of ’em, and quarterback Robbie Bosco may be better than the guy he replaced—Steve Young.
The pressure is on BYU to win and win big. Rumor has it that anything other than a rout might
persuade some pollsters to look for a new mythical national champion.

Gator: A great matchup between two frustrated teams, Oklahoma State and South Carolina. Both teams had their sights set on
the Orange Bowl, but Oklahoma turned away the Cowboys in a showdown. Meanwhile, the Gamecocks were caught looking past Navy
to the Clemson game and paid for it with their only loss of the year. Both squads possess wide-open, high-scoring
offenses and better-than-average defenses. This one should be fun to watch.

Cotton: Houston finally stumbled and staggered...its way in as the SWC representative, thanks to Texas’s late-season gag. Houston’s opponent is
Doug Flutie (who quarterbacks for Boston College). And that’s a mismatch. Houston is a solid team, but Flutie is the
most exciting player in college football today. The Cougar defense won't stop BC’s offense, but then again neither will BC’s
defense shut down Houston’s running attack. Another high-scoring game.

Fiesta: No one will be watching Miami and UCLA square off (Flutie’s on at the same time on CBS) and
that’s too bad. Sports Illustrated picked the Bruins to win it all this season, but they never really got out
of the starting blocks. Meanwhile, sophomore quarterback Bernie Kosar, who should break most of Flutie's records before he graduates, has
directed the Hurricanes to 85 points in their last two games. Unfortunately, Miami’s defense has allowed 89 points. If UCLA
plays to its capabilities, guess what? Another high-scoring affair.

Rose: Who cares? Southern Cal defeated Washington to get here, then proceeded to lose to both UCLA and Notre Dame.
Ohio State beat arch-rival Michigan (barely) to get here. If you must, watch for Buckeye junior tailback Keith Byars. He’s
tough and has a good shot at the Heisman next year. Otherwise, take a siesta after the Cotton and Fiesta.

Sugar: Nebraska wanted an Orange Bowl berth (doesn’t everybody?), but came up short against Oklahoma and wound up here. The
host team, literally, is LSU. Say what? That's right — after the SEC refused to allow Florida to accept the
Sugar Bowl bid (cheaters never prosper, folks), Auburn said thank you and then fumbled the gift, losing 17-15 to Alabama.
Which means LSU, the third-best team in the conference, goes bowling for dollars in New Orleans, to face the third-best
team in the Big Eight. A classic confrontation.

Orange: Everyone wanted to end up in Miami, but only Oklahoma and Washington did. I think the Sooners are the
best team in the country (sorry, BYU and Florida), and if they can win big, who knows? Washington will have
one heck of a time trying to move the ball on OU’s defense, while the Huskies will be hard-pressed to
neutralize the Sooners' powerful wishbone offense. Still, Washington wants to prove it’s for real, so here's hoping the halftime show
does not upstage the football game.

ROTC ATTENTION PREMED MAJORS NEED FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE?

The Air Force needs doctors. So, we may help finance your college education with an Air Force ROTC scholarship. We
have three and two-year AFROTC PreHealth Professions Scholarships for qualified applicants. These scholarships pay full tuition, lab and incidental fees,
books, plus $100 a month (tax-free) during the school year. Upon completion of Air Force ROTC and baccalaureate degree requirements,
you'll be commissioned as an Air Force second lieutenant. When accepted to medical school, additional assistance for medical school expenses
is guaranteed with an Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship. Get together with an Air Force ROTC representative and discuss these
two programs. It may be the most important talk you’ve ever had about your future. Gateway to a great way
of life.

CONTACT: Captain Bill Woods, Air Force ROTC at UNCC. 597-2711 or 597-4537
