Friday, October 26, 1984 / The Davidsonian

15 Reasons For Voting Against Reagan

Craig Detweiler

I cannot vote for Ronald Reagan. I'll admit he appears to be a sincere, conscientious leader, but his policies do
not jibe with my conscience. I could ignore his stances and support him because he seems presidential, but I would
betray my own ideals. In casting my ballot for Walter Mondale, I’m voting against a president whose policies I know,
and voting for a candidate whose policies I’ve heard. In 1984, I'll choose the unknown rather than the known I
cannot condone.

How do I disagree with the President? Let me count the ways. On economics, defense, foreign policy, morality, and social
issues, I diverge from Reagan’s position. I do not intend to marshal statistics to support my opinions. If the President
wishes to cite more people employed than ever before, I’ll respond with figures about more people. I won’t debate numbers
of U.S. nuclear warheads versus Soviet nuclear tonnage. I wish to express opinions about the President’s opinions and subsequent policies.

In the area of economics, I welcome the firm reduction of inflation, unemployment, and taxes that have coincided with the
current administration. I challenge voters to look beyond their present checking accounts, though. The trade deficits spawned by an overvalued
dollar and propped-up interest rates will result in either unemployment or staunch protectionism, both anathema to Reagan’s free trade façade.
A president who sees little relationship between the budget deficit and the state of the economy really scares me. Reagan’s
cumulative federal deficit of $670 billion exceeds the total of all previous deficits since 1945. Higher taxes and escalating inflation
result from such absurd deficits. How did a president who planned “to get government off the people’s backs” generate such
a deficit? It’s called defense. In the Reagan administration's definition of the word, an “of” may be substituted for the
“de.”

Why do we need the largest peacetime military buildup four straight years, with $2 trillion slated to be spent over
the next five years? Will we allow Reagan to pull the economy down the lamentable defense drain of Soviet example?
Irrespective of the economic impact, can you justify the need for almost 30,000 new nuclear warheads being produced in the
coming decade? The MX, B-1, Trident, Cruise, and Pershing II programs scare the heck out of me. Reagan’s nuclear arms
buildup fosters fear rather than national security. When you can annihilate the world umpteen times, what difference will five or
ten more times make?

Even if you agree with Reagan’s peace through strength (or live by the sword, die by the sword) policy, can
you also support peace through silence? The Administration has broken off arms control negotiations with the Soviets across the board.
Just last month, George Schulz rejected a Soviet proposal to freeze neutron bomb research and production. Do not allow the
President's meeting with Andrei Gromyko to deceive you. Reagan has displayed no commitment to peaceful, open arms control talks. He
has exhibited a commitment to talk — after fighting.

Foreign policy in the Middle East and Central America has been as interventionist and militaristic as the alleged Soviet activity.
While Reagan accuses the Soviets of exporting revolution, we openly practice it. Efforts to undermine the Nicaraguan government seem to
conflict with our noble, democratic history. What does mining the harbors of Nicaragua have to do with democracy? Warren Gould
recently illuminated our outrageous intervention in El Salvador. Neighboring Honduras has become an outpost for U.S. soldiers and advisors. Don't
forget Lebanon, either. What business do we have letting 260 Marines die in the middle of a Mideast civil war?
The President’s tunnel (di)vision of the world into two spheres, Soviet and American, will not begin to solve international problems.
It has only resulted in the death of innocent soldiers and civilians.

The President's foreign policy intrigues me when he addresses social issues. His perceptions of justice seem somewhat odd. He arms
a revolution to free oppressed Nicaraguans and for no extra charge, funds it with cuts in useless education, school lunch,
and Medicare benefits. I believe most folks would choose butter over guns. His cuts of social programs appear quite necessary
and justifiable to an upper-class white like myself. Carolyn Myers of Crisis Assistance Ministry in Charlotte may have a different
perspective. She has not been getting to work two hours earlier not because she likes mornings, but because the Administration’s
program slashing has caused lines to form at Crisis Assistance before it opens. The President’s version of compassion seems to
extend only until birth. After that, it's every man, woman, and child for himself, with the owner of the fastest
BMW and sharpest lawyer winning.

While whittling away the appreciated, necessary benefits of many poor Americans, Reagan has strongly advocated a new morality for the
United States. How can one cram morality down hungry people’s throats? While I heartily support personal prayer, I cannot endorse
a government imposition of values. Personal beliefs must not be forced into public policy. Like Geraldine Ferraro, I personally oppose
abortion, but publicly affirm the freedom for responsible choice (as in cases of rape, incest, maternal caution). As a Christian,
Reagan should believe people can only be changed from the inside-out. If the President and Jerry Falwell hope to transform
the morality of the American people, then their efforts to legislate should be rechanneled toward evangelism.

The downfall of my article centers on the same issue of external, intellectual knowledge and internal convictions. I address the
issues from an intellectual standpoint, but realize votes won't be changed until hearts are. Undoubtedly, Reagan's policies have benefited the
majority of Davidson's young urban professionals-to-be. I challenge folks to look beyond personal gain to long-term diplomacy, economic status, and
social justice. President Reagan has heightened global tensions, sparked a fire under a smoldering nuclear arsenal, alienated our Central American
neighbors, and robbed from the poor to give to the rich.Rich. Open your eyes, open your minds, open your hearts.
My reasons for voting against Ronald Reagan are strong enough to motivate me to vote for Mondale. I hope you
will join me. Detweiler is a senior English major from Charlotte, N.C.

Reagan Deceives Voters
John Parker

President Ronald Reagan cuts a very likable figure. Even those with the most serious objections to his policies must admit
that at one time or another his well-directed rhetoric has struck a responsive chord in their hearts. He is paternal
without being paternalistic, strong without being overbearing. If the cries for “four more years” are answered in the affirmative by
the American public on Nov. 6, it will have been Reagan’s projected image which propelled him into the Oval Office.

Image and rhetoric have their place in every political campaign, but in Ronald Reagan’s they have become central. This fact
in itself is disturbing. What is more disturbing is the easily documented disparity between the rhetoric and the realities. To
my knowledge, no president has ever deceived the American public so frequently or so blithely, both in large matters and
in small. The Great Communicator seems to have problems in communicating the truth.

Reagan won the 1980 election largely on his pledge to fight “big government.” Today he is running for re-election on
this same theme. Yet under Reagan, bureaucratic government has blossomed. He currently presides over the largest government in United States
history. According to analyst Gar Alperovitz, federal spending as a percentage of GNP rose from just under 22 percent to
just under 24 percent between 1979 and 1983. Despite the rhetoric against federal protectionism and regulation, Reagan's administration has:

— "Informally” limited imports of foreign autos, steel, sugar, and motorcycles.
— Supported government programs which aid the defense and nuclear power industries.
— Enforced price-support programs for various consumer goods.
— Favored large industry over small business in the 1981 tax bill.
— Given farmers over $21 billion in goods as part of a Payment-In-Kind program.
— Bailed out Continental Illinois National Bank, much as Carter’s administration bailed out Chrysler Corporation.

In 1980, Reagan assailed Carter and the democratic leadership for saddling America with a $35 billion a year budget deficit.
He claimed his proposals would all but eliminate the deficit. Under his administration, however, despite drastic cuts in social welfare
programs, this figure has risen to $175 billion per year. The federal government currently borrows one out of every four
dollars it spends from the private sector, a fact reflected in higher, growth-inhibiting interest rates for businesses and consumers. The
rise in the deficit is directly attributable to Reagan's unprecedented military build-up, this being the only area where Reagan has
consistently asked Congress to increase spending.

During the October 14 debate, Reagan claimed to have “preserved the safety net” of social welfare programs. Yet, according to
the Bureau of the Census, in 1983, 35.3 million Americans were living below the poverty line (versus 29.3 million in
1980). He also claimed that his tax cuts did not benefit the rich. Yet according to the Congressional Budget Office,
in 1983, households earning $10,000 a year — below the poverty line of $10,178 a year — lost $270 as
a result of these cuts while those earning $80,000 a year or more gained $7,070. Even Budget Director David Stockman
admitted in 1981 that Reagan's supply-side economics was an excuse for returning more income to the rich.

In this same debate, Reagan claimed never to have requested cuts in Medicare. In fact, he submitted a proposal to
cut Medicare by $20.4 million in his first full-fledged budget for fiscal 1983. Reagan also proposed drastic cuts in Social
Security immediately after the 1980 election, even though he had denied that he would attempt this during the 1980 campaign.

Reagan likes to style himself a peacemaker. To this end, he has attempted to call one missile “Corpus Christi” (Body
of Christ), and created the name “Peacekeeper” for another missile, the MX (seen by many defense analysts as the most
destabilizing weapon yet in the arms race). He has called on the Soviets to resume arms control negotiations, and has
quoted non-violence advocate Mahatma Gandhi. Most recently, he has taken credit for the Salvadoran peace talks despite his opposition to
every proposal concerning such talks in the past three years.

Is the American public ready to forget his unparalleled military build-up? His “joke” about bombing the Russians out of existence?
His characterization of the Soviet Union as an “evil empire” that must be actively combatted? These are the facts, and
facts should speak louder than election-year rhetoric and political posturing.

Reagan's record on civil rights, the environment, educational aid, and funding for the arts reveals a similar pattern of deception.
One recent incident, however, will serve to highlight the president's policy of deliberate misrepresentation and deception. Reagan recently campaigned in
Ohio, retracing Harry Truman's famous whistle-stop tour of 1948. In attempting to sway democratic voters, he invoked the memory of
Truman, “the last democrat I voted for.” He took the occasion to compare himself with Truman. It was later pointed
out that Truman traveled the same route in 1948 attacking the Republicans for cutting Social Security benefits and for passing
a tax cut for the rich.

According to the combined results of recent New York Times and CBS News polls, 61 percent of all registered voters
aged 18-24 support Reagan. Among these are many educated, middle- and upper-class students similar in many particulars to Davidson College
students. Among this intelligent and informed group, economic self-interest alone cannot account for this support. Neither can Reagan's celebrated ability
to appeal to the hopes and dreams of young Americans, although this comes closest to the mark.

No, these people support Reagan because they want to believe what he says about our economy, our domestic policy, and
our foreign policy. And I had thought college was supposed to promote critical thinking!

Parker is a senior English major from Chicago, IL.
