2 Special Supplement/December 5, 1984/The Davidsonian

Hussey Assesses Wildcats’ Prospects For 1984-85 Basketball Coach Looks ‘To Give It Our Best Shot’

By SCOTT HUIE

Lose a legitimate star like Kenny Wilson from a basketball squad that finishes the 1983-84 season 9-19, and the prospects for the ’84-85 season might spell doom. Add to that a schedule as tough as any in the country, and single-figure losses almost appear certain. But before you say Chris Mullin, Johnny Dawkins, and A. C. Green, don’t write off this year’s version of the Davidson Wildcats. They may be no-names; they may be young and inexperienced, but talking to Coach Bobby Hussey and seeing the Cats demolish Wofford in the home opener makes you a believer.

Hussey is in his fourth year as Davidson head coach after building a dynasty at Belmont Abbey for ten years. In this interview with The Davidsonian, he talks of Davidson’s chances, assesses this year’s competition, expresses his support for the planned athletic center, and discusses how Davidson basketball can return to the national prominence it enjoyed in the sixties.

Davidsonian: You’ve been picked to finish last in the Southern Conference by a poll of conference coaches and sports information directors. Does that surprise you?

Hussey: No, it doesn’t. Whatever you're picked is a reflection of the past year’s performance, losses to graduation, and gains in terms of recruiting. Last year, we had a poor conference record, and we lost Kenny Wilson to graduation, who meant so much to our program. And most people thought we had the worst recruiting year in the conference. But I think these people overlooked a lot of factors. We played quite a few games really close last year — we lost 13 games by six or fewer points; and in my opinion, we had an excellent recruiting year even though, for the most part, [our recruits] were not the name players with big reputations. Being picked last simply gives us a little more incentive to prove those people wrong.

Davidsonian: Is the Southern Conference really as tough and competitive this year as the experts say?

Hussey: From top to bottom, this is the best it’s been since I’ve been here. Marshall is simply loaded with high school All-Americans. Tennessee-Chattanooga has a first-round draft choice in Gerald Wilkins. [Appalachian] State has everyone back. Western Carolina had the best recruiting class in the conference. VMI has already won a couple of games this year against tough competition. And The Citadel may be the Cinderella team in the conference, especially since they have Regan Truesdale coming back. From positions three to seven, there really is little difference. It’s just a matter of who can put together some consistency. We’ll just have to give it our best shot.

Davidsonian: Comment on your non-conference schedule.

Hussey: It is without doubt the toughest schedule in the history of the school. We are playing 11 schools who only last year were in either the NCAA tournament or the NIT and we play two teams ranked in the top ten, Duke and St. John’s.

Davidsonian: Does Davidson really need a new athletic center, which would include a coliseum?

No. 40 Gerry Born eludes an Erskine defender

Hussey: No doubt about it, and in my opinion, we are ten years behind in trying to build one. Of allthe teams we play this year, we have the worst facility, bar none. Johnston Gym is old, outdated, and not conducive for spectators. Furthermore, it is a hindrance to our recruiting program as it shows a lack of commitment to a strong Division I basketball program. We simply cannot get really good teams to play us here on campus. Plus, it is not fair to the fans and to the student body. So yes, it is needed, and I think the administration, particularly [President John] Kuykendall, is providing the necessary leadership to get the project rolling.

Davidsonian: Can Davidson ever again reach the national prominence it had back in the sixties, or has college basketball simply outgrown Davidson?

Hussey: Sure we can. It’s a very realistic goal because you don’t have to have a lot of great players to succeed as you do in some sports. All you really need is two outstanding players and a lot of good complementary players. It’s sort of like DeMatha High School in Maryland, which year in and year out is the best basketball program on that level in the country. Yet its student body is only about 500 and the campus itself could probably fit onto our football field. It is true to some extent that college basketball, with large arenas, money, and television contracts, has outgrown us smaller schools. But imagine Davidson advancing through the NCAAs. A small school with tough academic standards could get a huge following. It’s definitely within reach.

Davidsonian: Is college basketball facing big troubles in terms of corruption with money becoming more a part of the game?

Hussey: Where there is money there will always be corruption, whether in national politics or in college basketball. But it is grossly overblown. I think we’re facing a time when the pendulum is beginning to swing back to the education side, especially with a recent push for tougher admissions standards. The media just needs to be more intent on covering the good things, the Cliff Tribus in basketball who receive post-graduate scholarships from the NCAA.

Davidsonian: Do you have any final words to say to those in the community who follow Davidson basketball?

Hussey: I feel really good about the school and community support for the Cats. It’s a great feeling seeing a packed gym when we come through those doors. But I just hope we can add a little more to what we have, and I’m just asking from everybody two hours of their time a couple of times a week. We may definitely be the Rodney Dangerfield of the conference. We don’t have any superstars. But, as a team, I think we can play very well, and we want everybody to be involved in our success. This team has a great attitude, they respond well, there’s good camaraderie, and there are no ego problems, so we do have a chance to sneak up on some people. Becoming a national power takes time, but we do have a good foundation upon which we can work. Good players tend to flock to the established programs, so if we continue to show progress, we can get those blue chippers. I think it is great when you see a sound educational institution go out and kick somebody else’s tail. People want to see this, and I think we can.

Rocky Kmiecik
Rocky Kmiecik