2 Friday, October 12, 1984/The Davidsonian

Students, Area Residents Prepare For Crop Walk

Davidson and North Mecklenburg residents will join together Sunday afternoon, Oct. 21, in a walk to fight hunger through CROP. Organizers of this year’s annual event have set a goal of raising $10,000. This year's event will start with registration at 1:30 p.m., and the Walk will start at 2:30 p.m. Runners will start before walkers. The route will be 10 km, which is 6.2 miles. The event will start and end at the town green in Davidson. Participants solicit sponsors to pledge money for each kilometer walked. Local and global hunger-fighting efforts receive the funds. The walk benefits the Hot Lunch program for older persons. Globally, the event funds can go to either designated agencies such as Lutheran World Relief, Catholic Relief Services, Southern Baptist Foreign Mission Board, or CARE, or Church World Service.

“A new aspect of this year’s Walk,” coordinator Sonia Daugherty said, “is the Harvest Festival. Prior to the walk itself, we will have singers, entertainers, clowns, and other festivities to set the mood for celebration.” The Davidson/North Meck Walk is a partnership between College people and area churches, she said. “Part of the urgency of our efforts this year,” said Rev. Phillip Grigsby, Associate Regional Director of CROP and a Davidson resident, “is the African drought and famine. While the situations are grave, the CROP Walk provides a way to link up with those in need.”

N.C. Fellows Chosen

The following sophomores have been selected as North Carolina Fellows: Sheryl Aikman, Dawn Bhasin, Sonia Daugherty, Steve Harrison, Laeta Kalogridis, Lucinda Kellam, Debbie Podolin, Shannon Stowe, Mark Swift, Gordon Watkins, and Marc Wennberg.

Davidson Gets Foreign Video Facilities

With the recent acquisition of new video equipment, the International Education Department has increased the variety of its instructional capabilities, according to International Education Director Homer Sutton. As Sutton explained, the equipment can play video tapes of all international standards. Thus cassettes from anywhere in the world can be used. The first two cassettes acquired by the department are from France and Germany, and they contain recordings of television news broadcasts in these countries as recent as September 1984. The department plans to obtain new recordings throughout the year. The cassettes, Sutton said, will benefit students in advanced language classes and will form the basis of discussions. However, other interested departments or clubs may view the tapes. The program, initiated by a group of faculty members, has received funds from the Pew Foundation through a donation to the Rusk endowment.

Contributed By Chandon Sinlia

Thirty-One Davidson Students Make Who’s Who

The 1985 edition of Who's Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges will include the names of 31 students from Davidson. Campus nominating committeesTed Garner, Mary Griffin, John Hackett, Lauren Hightower, Ross Holt, Ross Hunter, Tricia Ives, John Laughlin, Beth Maczka, John Marks, Laura McDonald, Ann Meador, Greg Murphy, Clay Napper, Ellen Papadeas, Sarah Patterson, Hunter Roddey, Nancy Rosselot, Murray Simpson, Sarah Speed, Janet Stovall, Tim Waples, and Atondra Williams.

Housing Office To Hold Retreat Next Weekend

The Housing Office will hold its annual Fall Foliage weekend at Little Switzerland, N.C., during the weekend of Oct. 21 and 22. The trip is open to all students, faculty, staff, and their families at a cost of $1 per person. Contact the Housing Office for further information.

Librarian To Speak On “Raleigh and Roanoke”

Dr. Helen Wallis, Keeper of the Map Library of the British Library, has organized an exhibit called “Raleigh and Roanoke,” which commemorates the 400th anniversary of the first English Colony in America. The exhibit will be transferred on loan to the North Carolina Museum of History in Raleigh, N.C., during March 1985. Wallis will give a lecture on the exhibit here at 8 p.m. Thursday in the Thurman Room of the Martin Chemical Laboratory. This lecture will be open to the public.

With the goal of “creating enthusiasm among students, faculty, and staff to support Davidson’s athletic teams,” the Wildcat cheerleading squad is optimistic about its 1984-85 season. Headed by co-captains David Short and Susie Myers, the team consists of five women and five men who practice about four hours a week to perfect their cheering skills. This summer Myers attended a cheerleading camp sponsored by the United Cheerleading Association to learn the latest cheers and stunts. Myers said, “College cheering is a whole different ball game from high school cheering because you depend on a partner. A lot more timing and teamwork is involved.”

All the members are committed to practicing and maintaining a good attitude, Myers said. This year, the demerit system is strictly enforced. If a squad member receives five demerits (usually resulting from a missed practice) he or she cannot cheer in the next game. Injuries, however, have caused a few problems this year. Because of one squad member’s back problem, some pyramids and stunts are harder to coordinate. According to Myers, many people do not realize how much time and effort cheerleading requires. Myers said she is surprised that she has remained a cheerleader for three years, “When we’re recruiting for the next season, a lot of people laugh in our faces when we ask them if they’re interested in cheering.” She said some people do compliment the members after football games for keeping a high spirit throughout the game. Crowd enthusiasm has improved, Myers said, if the attitude toward the cheerleaders has not. Sophomore squad member Michele Miller says that spirit “has gotten better but can still be improved.”

The cheerleaders have already sponsored two pre-game barbecues and are currently working on the Midnight Madness pep rally which will open basketball season. A possible bonfire party is also in the works. “This team is really cohesive, and the captains’ dedication encourages us to work harder,” Miller said. She added that they hope to spread the spirited attitude present among themselves to all Davidson fans.

Contributed By Treeby Williamson

SUNITEDE || CAROLINA BANK, BD:
137 N. Main St. Davidson 892-7815
I-77 at Hwy 73 Cornelius/Lake Norman 892-7805