Friday, April 13, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Students Participate In Charlotte Health Project

By ALLISON WILLS

A group of Davidson students—including a fraternity pledge class—will receive $50 each for participating in an experiment that tests the safety and effectiveness of a new vaccine. Each student will be inoculated with a form of Hemophilus influenza b, a bacterium known to cause bacterial meningitis and other diseases mostly in infants and young children.

Dr. James Parke, Associate Chairman of Pediatrics at Charlotte Memorial Hospital and experiment supervisor, has worked on this project for 13 years. “It is a medical urgency to try to prevent this bacterium, especially in infants and children, because it has been estimated that between 12,000 and 13,000 cases occur every year in this country,” Parke said. “Thirty to 40 percent of these cases involve significant complications, such as mental retardation and deafness. There is also approximately a 1-10 percent mortality rate,” he added.

Each participant in the study was required to sign an agreement that explicitly outlined their responsibilities. For $50, the students are injected twice with the vaccine and have been instructed to take their temperature at regular intervals following each inoculation. Students are free to discontinue the study at any time, but the $50 will not be granted until the participants have their second blood sample taken in May. The possible reactions include tenderness at the site of the injection and a low-grade fever. The agreement reads: “I understand that there will be no compensation or free medical care provided for any injury or adverse reaction encountered during my participation in this study. I understand that I will receive $50 to cover my expenses for my participation in this study.”

The amount of interest shown at the College amazed Parke. College physician Dr. William Williams endorsed the project, and Dean of Students Will Terry also granted his approval. The SGA publicized the experiment, and in four days the 90 students Parke needed had volunteered to receive their first vaccine.

“The volunteers were very responsive, careful readers, and interested in the project. In our four days at Davidson, only two students brought up the money, and that tells me the students were more interested in the value of the program than the reimbursement.” Parke said he considered not paying the volunteers, but added that it is common practice to pay adults for an experiment of this kind because their time is valuable.

He was not aware that the Sigma Alpha Epsilon pledge class used the program as a fundraising project for their house, “but I personally talked with all the volunteers and made sure they wanted to participate and were aware of what was involved.”

Sophomore Jill Sypult reacted to the injection with high temperature, headaches, and chills, but will continue with the program because she said she was warned fairly about the consequences and because she believed it was for a good cause. But another student said he will discontinue the experiment because his fever was over 102 degrees, and it lasted longer than he had been warned.

Parke explained that the second injections to be administered April 24-30 will be modified according to reactions from the first vaccine. “If we get reactions which are worse than one could reasonably be expected to experience, we will have to change the next injection,” he said. “That is why it is important that the participants send in their reaction information so we can quickly come to a conclusion about what kind of modification to make.”

A form of this vaccine was successfully tested in Mecklenburg County on 18,000 adults and children in 1974-76, but it was determined ineffective for children younger than 2-4 years old. “Since then we have tried to find one better which will be effective for infants.”This new vaccine is the same H. influenza polysaccharide [used in the Mecklenberg test], but it is conjugated to tetanus toxoid,” Parke explained. “Infants respond nicely to tetanus toxoid, and we hope that the combination will change the mechanism of how infants respond to the polysaccharide.”

“All the components of this new vaccine are well-known, but since it is new, we must take the usual approach to investigating,” Parke said. “First animals, adults, children, and finally infants. So far, all the research has gone according to schedule. We're hoping that this is the answer to all those years of research.”

Bluestone Advocates National Industrial Policy
By DAVID MCGEE

“The industries that built America are in trouble,” Barry Bluestone, this year’s Reynolds lecturer, said yesterday in a panel discussion with three Davidson professors. “We had a period of time when we thought we had licked the business cycle,” Bluestone said. However, the four recessions of the 1970s brought higher unemployment and decay within America’s industrial infrastructure, a phenomenon Bluestone calls deindustrialization.

In the panel discussion yesterday and in his speech last night, Bluestone, professor of economics and director of the Social Welfare Research Institution at Boston College, outlined his reasons for supporting a national industrial policy. When conducting research for his recent book The Deindustrialization of America, he and his colleague Bennett Harrison found that between 1969 and 1976, American industry lost a total of 22.3 million jobs. Further investigation by another institution revealed that another 18 million jobs were lost between 1976 and 1982.

Before the 1969 recession, the economy experienced 105 months of continuous growth, Bluestone said. The post-World War II boom initiated this phenomenal period of growth, but American industry lost their advantage due to foreign competition beginning in 1970. “People have said government, management, and people are at fault. None of these reasons hold water,” Bluestone said. He attributed the economic problems America faced in the 1970s and today to several things. First, private capital investment, he said, is not optimal. “The market does a fairly good job in allocating capital,” Bluestone said. The problem, however, lies in how long the market takes to adjust to changes in the economy, he said. To Bluestone, “the market will give wrong signals about time. Government must work to change the timing of investment.”

As a result of industry moving to the third world to take advantage of cheaper labor to enhance its competitiveness, unemployment increases in America. A national industrial policy could improve employment here, while conducting an “orderly” transmission of industry to the third world, Bluestone said. Other policies could avoid a polarization of the labor force between highly technical and well-paying jobs and low-paying, unskilled employment. Bluestone questioned the quality of life in such a situation, even at full employment.

Other policies would include a national development bank and a coordinated trade policy. Philosophy Professor Lance Stell questioned the integrity of such a planning body, noting that the Federal Reserve has made misjudgments in the past and that a national industrial policy may magnify these mistakes. Economics Professor Clark Ross added that government policy now may mitigate deindustrialization. Also, Ross said, since government is susceptible to special interests, an industrial policy may become political. Planning is harder to implement in an open economy, Ross said, and is more effective in oligopolistic industry.

Responding to criticisms of a national industrial policy, Bluestone pointed out that planning may take place on the state and local levels. He noted the success of such planning in Rhode Island. The strongest exports the U.S. has, Bluestone said, are already influenced by government support: mainly agricultural commodities. “Any industrial policy,” Bluestone said, “must be modest (not central), flexible (not rigid), and experimental (not a political football).”