6 Friday, October 5, 1984 / The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Convocation Apparel Cheap, But Free

Big doings at Davidson this week: installing John W. Kuykendall, crowning the Homecoming Queen, eating barbecue, rolling kayaks (see this
week's Announcement Sheet for time and place), and — for seniors — donning the black plastic for the first time.
The tears were flowing Tuesday in the Union as students realized that in only 12 short months they would be
coming home instead of living there. You see, Tuesday was graduation gown distribution day, and the atmosphere was nostalgic indeed.

“Hey, what's this white thing for?”
“How does this tassel thing hook on?”
“These are cheap.”

MORE OR LESS
By ANN MEADOR

Cheap, yes, but free. At least the illusion of costlessness is there; it is best to avoid the crippling notion
that this nylon shower set costs $36,000. Instead, it is pleasant to think the College has given its seniors an
early graduation present. But we have had these kinds of presents before. Remember the crocheted pillbox? The macramé purse? Those
six dozen Cross pens? What do you do with these things? I asked some seniors about their post-graduation plans for
their gowns.

“I'll have it laminated for future reference,” Thomas Evans said.
“I'll probably sell it to somebody,” Alva Moore said.
“Use it in a painting,” Dave Klett said.
“Hang it from my rear view mirror,” Warren Gould said.
“There's no telling,” Bryant Knox said. Would he elaborate? “No.”
“I'll give mine to Minerva [his pet dog] if you think it'll keep her warm,” Mike Tantillo said.
“Fly with it,” Craig Detweiler said.
“Shower curtains,” Janet Morris said.

SGA President John Laughlin said he would “put it in my hope chest and store and treasure it,” but then
he said something about putting racing stripes on it. Someone mentioned a wet cap and gown contest, but the black
turns purple when wet and wouldn’t be flattering at all.

The It’s a Bit Late Dept.

All of you know Brady Alley, that little hunk of road between Davidson Dry Goods and The Needlecraft Center. A
curious upheaval has been occurring there recently, because the Town of Davidson plans to turn the Alley into a Pedestrian
Walkway complete with bricks and bushes. The Alley is a wreck right now, all trenches and red mud. What is
peculiar is a notice posted in the Post Office (of all places) saying that the fate of Brady Alley will
be decided at an October 16 town meeting. I imagine the issue is not a burning one among townfolk, but
the question must be asked: What happens if the voice of the people mandates a Brady Alley and not a
Brady Pedestrian Walkway? Is de-improvement in the future? Is that decaying asphalt to be relaid? Those bushes rebushed? And what
about that name? It’s like the Patterson Court Road which now sports a new, immediately forgettable name. Why didn’t they
call it what it is?

Etiquette Corner

A hint for gentle Homecoming participants: remember, one name tag is enough. Also, writing down your astrological sign is a
no-no.

Phillip Dennis

[Professor Herb Jackson]

As Davidson welcomed the new freshman class a month ago, faculty and students also welcomed other additions to the campus
— namely four large abstract paintings hanging in the Vail Commons. James D. Vail III and his family commissioned art
Professor Herb Jackson to do the two pairs of paintings. Vail’s son John, a Davidson alumnus, originated the idea to
commission a Davidson professor. Before beginning work on the paintings in January, Jackson spent a lot of time studying the
architecture of the building as well as the function of the Commons. Realizing that mealtime is a temporary break from
the academic pressure of the college, he sought to produce abstract paintings which could be interpreted on many levels. He
desired them to be conducive to relaxed discussion though not necessarily to be the focal point of the conversation. The
paintings are done in acrylic and pumice.The Peggy Pierotti ‘Quiet’ Paintings Add Color To Vail Commons
By TREEBY WILLIAMSON

Paint is placed on the canvas in layers, sometimes as many as a hundred, and then surface layers are scraped
to reveal the various levels beneath. Jackson describes his paintings as “quiet, thought-provoking, and meditative,” traits which he says characterize
most of his work. The paintings, which hang in pairs on each side of the Commons, have different color schemes.
In paintings on the west side, the colors are bolder and emphasize blue and tangerine, while the pair on the
east side are made up of more muted colors, such as light brown and blue. The paintings are the largest
Jackson has ever done and are his only works which are publicly displayed on the Davidson campus.

Currently, Jackson is working on a piece for a Dallas, Texas building. He has upcoming shows in Portugal, New York,
and Charlotte (on Nov. 2 at the Jerald Melberg Gallery). Jackson, a New York City native, has been a member
of the Davidson faculty since 1969 and Art department chairman.

Outing, Outdoors Clubs Merge
By IDA PHILLIPS

Following in the footsteps of big businesses like Gulf and Standard Oil, a momentous merger occurred at Davidson this fall.
The Outing Club has joined forces with the Outdoors Club to form Davidson Outdoors, an organization for students and faculty
interested in outdoor activities. Davidson Outdoors provides the same services of the now-defunct Outing Club and Outdoors Club. The Outdoors
Club, which was run by the Housing Office, provided opportunities for inexperienced campers to go on trips during vacation breaks
between terms. The Outing Club not only organized various trips but also loaned out camping, boating, and climbing equipment.

Senior Ed Daugherty, chairman of Davidson Outdoors, has reorganized Davidson’s only outdoors organization. One of his main concerns has been
to inform people of the opportunities offered by Davidson Outdoors. “We'd like to show people that there are other things
to feel proud of besides grades. I think there is a need for emphasis on things besides academic success, such
as personal success.” Daugherty feels that this sense of accomplishment can be gained through outdoor experiences.

Daugherty plans to organize trips as soon as he gets Davidson Outdoors’ equipment in order. A main service of the
group is supplying camping equipment to anyone hitting the trails. The equipment includes sleeping bags, backpacks, daypacks, stoves, tents, cooking
utensils, bike racks (for cars), canoe paddles, and lifejackets. The equipment is available to anyone who pays a $10 deposit,
which is refunded if the equipment is returned on time. Equipment checkout and return is every Tuesday and Thursday night
from 8 to 9 p.m. in the Outdoors’ office in the Union.

Davidson Outdoors also organizes local bike rides every Saturday morning. The 10 to 20-mile rides leave from the front of
the Union at 10 a.m. Daugherty is musing over a number of outings for the group this year. Ideas include
raft trips, hiking in Horse Pasture Gorge, a combination driving/biking tour on the Blue Ridge Parkway, and other backpacking excursions.
He has also planned a few unusual events. Kitty Hawk Kites, a hang-gliding organization, is scheduled to visit Davidson on
Oct. 30. This promotional event will involve demonstration movies and ground training.

Daugherty emphasized that Davidson Outdoors is an organization for anyone interested in the outdoors and that it cannot survive by
chairman alone. He believes that the “apathy dragon” plagued the Outing Club in past years; students expressed verbal interest in
organizations but never participated. Daugherty would like to see a member of the college staff accept the job of heading
the group. He also wants to establish a core group of students who are skilled in certain activities, such as
canoeing or rock-climbing, and who could lead groups on expeditions. Students who are interested in more eccentric outdoor pursuits should
not be discouraged, for Daugherty claims that Davidson Outdoors is “open to planning virtually any activity.”
