Friday, February 17, 1984 / The Davidsonian

R.A.C.L.E. Forum (continued from page 1)

...not as “blacks” but as human beings. Tied in with this issue was the purpose of the BSC. Some felt that it was an organization solely for blacks, and others felt that it should act as an integrated house for educating both blacks and whites about the different cultures. The question boiled down to whether the BSC was an instrument of segregation or integration. Stovall stressed that while the BSC’s purpose is to preserve black unity, it is not a negative desire but a celebration of differences. Black culture, she said, was entirely apart from the white and “anyone who doesn’t understand that doesn’t understand black culture.”

One student commented that he felt “cheated that Davidson doesn’t have an atmosphere that allows me to meet blacks.” Sophomore Sayres Rudy said he felt alienated by blacks who asserted their identity in a culture that, as Stovall explained, by definition he could not comprehend. Wooten asked the panel for solutions to problems. Stovall felt that if relations are to improve, whites must be educated about blacks. To this end, she proposed mandatory black studies programs, more black students, professors, and administrators, and better relations with the community. Philosophy professor Bob Maydole felt an affirmative action program in admissions and hiring would help change attitudes by increasing the number and influence of blacks. However, many in the audience disagreed with this.

At the end of the forum, Wooten listed all the suggestions to help solve the barrier between races. These were: mandatory black studies, more black professors, more black students, work with the community, whites to visit BSC more often, make Davidson more attractive to blacks, affirmative action, and more black hall counselors.

Athletic Polls (continued from page 1)

...of concerns about Wildcat athletics. In the area of football, professors see a need to adopt a new schedule with more realistic competition. They suggest joining a new conference and playing schools of similar size and caliber and with similar academic programs. The faculty considers the monetary and academic costs too high. They suggest that there may be too many football coaches and that too much money is spent on recruiting, equipment, travel, and financial aid. Academically, the professors feel that the football teams’ exhaustive practices and schedule consume study time. The faculty feels that freshmen athletes need time to adjust to Davidson academics.

The faculty expresses the concern that the football program may not be in line with the College’s standards. They note that it cannot compete at the present time unless they are willing to emphasize recruiting and competition more, which would detract from the College’s purpose. The faculty notes that in basketball, Davidson may have unrealistic goals and an overemphasized program. They question the need for four basketball coaches and whether basketball is the main reason Davidson is in the Southern Conference.

The faculty survey shows some concern about the athletic complex. Some faculty members question why there will be so many seats for basketball and why Davidson will still play major games in Charlotte. The professors indicated that Davidson needs an adequate swimming pool in order to rebuild the swimming program. According to the survey, physical education needs more emphasis.

The faculty suggested that sports is one visible area where Davidson standards of excellence are not defined or maintained. They question why Davidson does not compete with similar institutions in sports when it does in other areas. The professors pose the fundamental question yet to be answered: What purpose do athletics serve at Davidson?

According to Kazee, “The survey is a preliminary step, and a good place to begin, but it’s not a recipe for change.” He noted that the problems with athletics at Davidson can be reduced if explained. “Forums and faculty meetings open up channels of communication and allow people to make their cases and reconcile problems,” he said.

As to the importance of a good response to the surveys, Kazee commented that though it depends on the population surveyed, “a response of over one-half is considered good.” The student response rate was 24 percent; only 239 out of 1000 surveys were returned. The faculty’s rate of response was much higher. Kazee said that it is difficult to interpret a low response to a survey. “Apathy could be either dissatisfaction or satisfaction. [One shouldn’t] draw conclusions about apathy,” he said. He suggests looking for reasons for the...Low response by raising questions at meetings. Senior Mark Nottingham said that the SGA committee in charge of the survey was somewhat “disappointed” in the response rate. He also said that there were some complaints about the wording of the questions. For example, the first question asked about the emphasis on men’s major intercollegiate sports (basketball and football). According to Nottingham, some students felt the questions should have addressed basketball and football separately. Despite the complaints, Nottingham said the Committee does not plan on re-issuing the survey in the near future. Nottingham said the next step is to talk with captains of teams and others to work with athletes to talk about the survey results and to work on addressing some of the critical issues.

Giduz Gives Drug Talk
By DAVID RESNIK

“You don’t need to be addicted to drugs to have a drug problem. Drug abuse is a symptom of an underlying problem,” Bob Giduz of the Charlotte Drug Education Center said in a one-hour talk Monday. Giduz spoke about drug abuse in general and the effects and health risks of marijuana, alcohol, and cocaine for 25-30 minutes and addressed questions afterwards. He distinguished between the use and abuse of drugs. There are appropriate recreational and experimental uses of drugs, according to Giduz, but use can lead to abuse. Drug abuse happens “when the drug you’re using is controlling you.” Giduz also distinguished between abuse and daily use of drugs and physiological and psychological addiction to drugs. According to Giduz, people start abusing drugs to avoid pain. “It’s an easy way out,” he said. Abusers rarely admit their problem. It takes a crisis event, such as the death of a loved one or an illness, to make the abuser confront his problem. Giduz’s talk was sponsored by the SGA, Y Student Service Corps, the PCC, and the Council on Campus and Religious Life. Approximately 50 people attended the talk. Giduz is the brother of Assistant Director of Communications Bill Giduz.

Harding Incident (continued from page 1)

Instead of contacting Car 10, the campus police car, the dispatcher called Car 11 which is the town police car, he said. In addition, no name or number was recorded for the person who called about the incident. Campbell said the person who called in gave explicit instructions describing Harding House’s location. No directions to Harding House were recorded or dispatched to the Davidson policeman. The Davidson policeman on duty did not know where Harding House was. He stopped at Henderson House on Concord Road, where campus policeman John Griffin met him. Griffin said that he never received a call about the incident but responded when he heard the Davidson policeman ask over the radio where Harding House was. The two then went to Harding House.

SGA Passes Resolution

Campbell and Gunn told the SGA Tuesday about the incident. SGA member Chris Mashburn, who works with Davidson police, said at the meeting “If you pick up a phone and dial 892-5131, the police may or may not get where you want them to go.” Monroe said the SGA passed a similar resolution last spring asking the administration to improve campus security, especially the dispatching system. SGA vice-president Lentz Ivey said “several other close calls like this one in the past” have occurred and that Friday’s incident points to a long-term problem. Because the administration did not act on their last resolution, the SGA voted unanimously to take the matter to the College Trustees. Monroe said he will meet with Interim President Frontis Johnston today about the dispatching problems. A recent Duke Endowment grant allotted $30,000 to install a dispatcher system to improve campus security. Mashburn said the town has presented several plans to the College to alleviate security and dispatching problems, but the College never has acted on any of them. Chief Warlick and Chief of Campus Security Jackie Hughes have recently submitted a dispatching plan to Director of Campus Security Grover Meetze. “This is not the first effort,” Mashburn said. “Other plans have been presented but not listened to. How badly does someone have to be hurt for them to act? The failure of a compromise has brought about this situation.” The Trustees will vote on the resolution at their next meeting.

Summer Job Opportunities

Camp Carolina for Boys
Brevard, NC
Interviews on Tues., Feb. 21
11 a.m. to 12 noon - 1 p.m. to 4 p.m.
Student Union
Nath Thompson, interviewer