10 Friday, March 23, 1984 / The Davidsonian ~ SPORTS

Women’s Tennis Follows Tracks Of Miller Dynasty
By KERRY BROWN

Remember Davidson women’s tennis during the reign of coach Pat Miller (Miller was head coach for the Lady Wildcats from 1974 to 1982)? For those who can’t remember, here’s a brief reminder. During the “Miller Dynasty,” women’s tennis here won 95 matches while losing only 34. The Lady Wildcats won the North Carolina Association of Intercollegiate Athletics for Women three times in a span of four years. Emmy Knobloch, Miller’s first-seed player, won the NCAIAW singles title four consecutive years, and the Lady 'Cats strolled to a 15-6 overall season record last year.

Well, all the accomplishments of the “Miller Dynasty” were good and fine, but Miller left Davidson in 1982 “in sweet sorrow,” and Knobloch, one of Davidson’s most recent All-Americans, graduated. It seemed like Davidson’s women’s tennis program would no longer be a dominant force in AIA tennis, but the AIA soon became non-existent and things looked even worse for the Lady 'Cats.

The Wildcats, however, were not phased by their new predicament. When coach Caroline Brown came to Davidson, she faced rumors that, without Miller and Knobloch and the team’s stronger classification, the 1983 season looked like a struggle for the 'Cats. Yet, Brown has quietly constructed a program that has nearly overshadowed many of the accomplishments of the “Miller Dynasty.” And, if things go as planned this year, the 'Cats can expect an invitation to the NCAA national tournament.

So what has restored and enhanced the winning tradition that Miller left at Davidson? A considerable amount of good coaching and a group of dedicated young women who strive for victory. That’s all. Sports junkies call it magical chemistry, the right stuff. And, if the magic remains, the 1983-84 season is sure to be another one above par.

If the Davidson women’s tennis team is to have another Cinderella season, the team’s upperclassmen will have to play at their best. Presently, four seniors lead the Wildcats in three of the top four singles positions. Senior Sue Hamilton heads the team at the number one position, Eleanor Knobloch, another senior, is playing at the number three position for the 'Cats, and senior Adelyn Lutz is currently the number four singles player on the squad. The team also has a pair of exceptional newcomers in freshman Debbie Podolin, who has taken a place in the starting ranks during her first collegiate season at the number three doubles position, and in junior Mary Griffith.

With the talent the team has now, coach Caroline Brown and the Lady 'Cats might well be on their way to another tennis dynasty, and as coach Brown says, “Our win-loss record would be very good this year, and as for the future, it’s bright.” Though the Wildcats are slowly regaining last year’s winning stride (the team is currently 4-2), they are sure to be a challenge in NCAA Division III tennis. The Lady 'Cats are certainly making their move toward dominance in Division III tennis, and they are not going unnoticed. Presently, the 'Cats are ranked eighth in the country in the Division III tennis polls.

Now Brown can safely say that Davidson’s women’s tennis is not the failure it was predicted to be after the departure of Miller and Emmy Knobloch. Instead, the Davidson women’s tennis program has played well against strong opponents and is headed toward a promising future.

Cats Drop Three To The Citadel, Pound Fairmont
By ANDY BARRON

The Wildcat baseball team opened its conference schedule with a three-game series at The Citadel, where they lost three close games. Errors and falling behind early in the game contributed to the losses. Before traveling to The Citadel, Davidson pounded Fairmont State 27-7 at home. The game featured a fine pitching effort by Chip Knox. Knox went the distance, providing the pitching staff with some needed rest before the weekend series. Though he allowed three solo homers in the fourth inning, Knox did what he had to do to win and looked steady throughout the game. “I knew the"Team needed me to go at least six innings,” Knox said. “If the staff was deeper, I wouldn’t have had to go as long as I did. All the runs we got helped a lot. It was a big win that will give us momentum for the weekend,” he said.

Unfortunately, the win over Fairmont State didn’t give Davidson enough momentum. Pitcher Scott Weaver pitched a fine game, allowing only three runs. However, the hitters seemed to have left their bats at home and were unable to score. “You can’t win if you don’t score,” stated Coach George Greer. “Scott pitched a fine game, but we can’t say we should have won if we didn’t score,” he said.

The second half of the doubleheader was frustrating. Starter Billy Waitsman became the third straight pitcher to throw a complete game and leads the staff with an impressive 2.88 earned-run average. Davidson lost 4-3, however, and committed seven errors. All four Citadel runs were unearned.

Game three merely added to the frustration. The ’Cats fell behind early and were unable to come back, losing 8-7. “Throughout the series with The Citadel, it seemed as if whoever batted last would win,” said Coach Greer. “If we had been at home, we probably would have won at least two of those games. We did make too many silly mistakes. However, I was encouraged in how we came back in each of the last two games.”

Though the weekend might be described as merely a character-building experience for a young team, many positive aspects came out of the weekend. The pitching staff showed it can do the job. “All of our pitchers did well,” said Coach Greer. “We were concerned with our depth going into the weekend. I was very pleased with their efforts.”

The hitters are coming around also. Shortstop Keith Helfant continued to hit .400. Centerfielder Dave Depaul has been hitting much better. The biggest improvement, however, has been second baseman Tim Waters. Waters injured his hamstring in a pre-season scrimmage and played tentatively early in the season. Lately, Waters has been more aggressive and has raised his average dramatically over the last half dozen games.

Davidson will need all the hitting they can muster this weekend in a three-game home series against Furman. The ’Cats need to win the series to get back in the conference race. “The improved enthusiasm of this year over last year has been a big lift,” Helfant said. “Now we need to do well in the conference so we can make the playoffs.” The ’Cats should start this weekend.

Rugby: Enigmatic, Foolish, And Foreign, But Fun
By HUNTER GOURLEY

This weekend those gallant young idiot-lads dressed mostly in black and red will return to Davidson’s playing fields, or rather rugby pitches, to entertain some 30 or so other fine gentlemen. The entertainment begins Saturday afternoon at 1:30 p.m. when Belmont Abbey arrives, and it ends sometime Sunday evening or early Monday when Charlotte’s Old Originals finally depart.

In between Saturday’s and Sunday’s matches, party-secretary and keg-fetcher Joe McMullen has conveniently scheduled a wide variety of other more social and less violent activities to occupy the idle minds of players and students alike. Please notice our nifty new patches donated by the distributors of Michelob beer. Of course, there is a catch: there’s no such thing as free advertising anymore. Thus, the Michelob people have requested we consume rather massive quantities of that delicious brew they so expertly pump into their kegs. And who, my friends, are we to deny them that one small request? Especially with such nice patches — a truly meaningful addition to any humdrum uniform or outfit. How does that song go? “Weekends were made...”

Anyhow, everyone is cordially invited to the matches and subsequent parties. If it’s wet and rainy I would recommend skipping the matches and perhaps plan to attend the parties only. If it’s sunny and hot? Well then, you just might find the answer to that difficult question, what exactly is rugby? Next week, perhaps, there will be some answers to these questions and others concerning this enigmatic, foolish, foreign game called rugby.