By STEVE SOUD

The venerable Al McGuire often referred to John Pinone, formerly of Villanova fame, as a “blue collar player.” The idea
was that Pinone, not the world’s best-endowed basketball player, had to work for every point, rebound, steal, or block he
got. Watching Gerry Born play against UNCC and Furman last week, one might be led to believe that Mr. Pinone’s
spirit has been reincarnated here at Davidson.

In those two games, Born matched up defensively against Melvin Johnson and George Singleton, who combined for a total output
of about 39 ppg. Born guarded Johnson for the second half of the UNCC game, and he devastated him. Johnson
had scored 15 first-half points, but Born, largely through ball denial defense, held the 49ers star to two second-half points.
On top of that, Born out-positioned Johnson on rebounds nearly every time, as he out-rebounded Johnson 6-1 in that half.
Moreover, Born drove the much more agile Johnson to the hoop twice. The second half was an embarrassment for Johnson,
his pride intact only because of his outstanding first half.

The only reason Singleton’s pride remained intact was that Furman exited a winner. Once more, Born was the leading instigator
of the main man’s woes. He held Singleton to a dismal seven points, ten below his season average. Born also
hauled in seven rebounds. Offensively, Born was most impressive: 17 points from all over the court. He made Singleton look
silly on a couple of follow-ups and one around-the-world layup. To polish that off, Born grabbed 10 rebounds, a game
high, against East Tennessee.

Born has to work for all this. Boxing out 6-10 guys who can out-leap and out-quick you is no easy
task. But Born plays effective, heady, bruising defense.

There are three teams on the court during a basketball game: two opposing teams and one mediating team, the referees.
When the referees do their job well, their presence is hardly noticeable. When done poorly, their decisions incite an uproar.
Such was the case in Johnston Gym Saturday night. Although I cannot rightly claim objectivity on this point, I have
rarely seen the momentum of a game hinge so drastically on one call as the other night.

Put the case: Kenny Wilson has four fouls and is benched. The offense stagnates without him. Coach Bobby Hussey returns
Wilson to the lineup. The Wildcats shave a seven-point Paladin lead to three, at which point Chris Heineman tips a
Furman pass off course. Wilson, reacting to the ball prior to his opponent, races forward to get the ball. He
comes up with it, creating a two-on-one break and a chance to cut the lead to one. Instead, the referee
whistles a foul — Wilson’s fifth — that sends the Paladins to the line. They convert the one-and-one for a
five-point lead with 5:30 remaining.

From my angle, Wilson never touched the opponent. But even if he did, was it a justifiable foul? The general
rule-of-thumb in basketball is that on a free ball, personal contact is allowable, as long as neither side gains an
advantage. If there was contact, did Wilson gain an advantage? I don’t think so. In fact, because Wilson had reacted
to the deflected pass prior to the opponent, it would seem that the opponent gained advantage by contact. It was
an unfortunate call.

The officiating team was apparently the same one Marshall Coach Rick Huckabay blasted in the press a few days earlier.
It is rumored that this team was under investigation at the time of the Davidson-Furman contest. It would be unfair
to say that these officials were biased. There were several bad calls that went against Furman. But one mistake, which
at the time of its commission could have worked against either team, showed a measure of ignorance on the part
of the officials. After noticing that one of the two scoreboards was wrong, the officials stopped play to repair the
disparity. While the timekeeper adjusted the score, they resumed play. Meanwhile, there was no one available to start the clock,
so several seconds elapsed while the game was underway. This is an example of gross negligence on the part of
the referees, and for that alone they should be reprimanded. A handful of questionable or even bad calls are tolerable,
expected, and even understandable during the course of a game. But such consistent, blatant incompetency should not be tolerated. It
is a pity that two teams should have to endure officials already cited as incompetent. Worse than that, after corroborating
their own incompetency with a second poor performance, they should not be sanctioned.

IMAC Losers Get Bad Press, No Respect

By HUNTER GOURLEY

The only losers on this campus not getting any press or respect belong to the teams defeated in IMAC contests.
All other Davidson teams get written up in The Davidsonian regardless of victory or defeat — from football in the
fall to baseball and track in the spring. It isn’t fair. IMAC losersDeserve to see their teams’ players’ names —
in print, too. First, the forfeitures in IMAC games played since the break. Score sheets show four forfeitures for the
new year. Credit must go to Buster’s Lusters and Sisters, Inc. of the women’s league for their combined efforts in
a no-show that resulted in the first (I think) double forfeit of the season. Dana Lemon could not be reached
concerning the Sisters’ absence, while the Lusters of Third Rich were supposedly all safely tucked into their beds well before
their 9:30 p.m. court date.

In B-league b-ball, the Killer Spees lost to the Fijis NAATPBF by thirty-eight points, 67-29. The Spees opted to save
face by forfeiting when they failed to provide referees for another IMAC game (for exact ruling see Forfeitures: b], under
Policies and Procedures, in the Davidson College IMAC Basketball 1983-84 Blue Book). Charlie Bradley was the low scorer for both
teams with one point and he was also the game’s leading fouler.

Speaking of SPEs, in A-league play Champagne Jam earned a victory by forfeiture when SAE’s team, Freddie and the "heads,
failed to make the game. A Jam player — and a real winner himself (names won’t be mentioned, Howarth) —
misspelled forfeit on the scoring sheet and also credited his players with thirty points apiece for an IMAC total point
record of 240-0.

And finally, a forfeiture was discovered outside the confines of Johnston Gym. Referee Curtis Northrup recorded a pre-break no-show for
the Nutty Buddies of IMAC street hockey fame. The other team, Eddie Shore, scored no goals, winning the match by
default. So much for those losers.

Now for the losers who were crazy enough to show up and be defeated by twenty points or more. Ladies
first, once again. Mother’s Finest took it on the chin when they showed up on court without their offense. The
Mothers combined for a four-point total (possibly another IMAC record), while their opponents scored 22 points. Buster's Lusters’ performance against
Rusk must have been their incentive to accept a later, aforementioned forfeit with grace. The Lusters lost to Rusk 40-12
in a real thriller. In another mismatch, the Little Foxes were outscored several times by Warmer Hall, 48-10. Shelly Lineberger
and Becca Bates scored 14 points each in this rout. Tricia Ives hit two buckets for the Foxes.

Three games deserve attention in the men’s league. The Headhunters II never stopped trying in their 39-point loss to the
impressive Partour’s Dogs in a courageously fought B-league game that ended 60-21 at the buzzer. Mike Stephens and Rich Pollard
scored no points in their team’s loss, but Pollard did foul once and Stephens yelled a lot. John Harper scored
once and also committed a foul for the ‘Hunters II.

Two A-league games resulted in blowouts. In an interhouse rivalry, the KA’s Right Stuff lost to the Supreme Court, 62-36.
The Stuffs' Greg Murphy was the game's lowest scorer with no points, while the Court’s Scott Huie took the game's
hacking honors with five called fouls. Pie Delta Tetta had some difficulty getting their game together against Pony Express. PDT
hit for a 21-point total and the Express delivered the mail for 44 points. Morgan Ward was PDT’s low scorer
and fouler with one basket and no called fouls. Andy Leper couldn't put one in the hole that night, but
he played solid defense.

Rodney, who says IMAC losers don’t get enough press and at least a minimal amount of respect? Oh yeah —
a special favor — W’spoon hit for a game high 20 points in an Anteater pre-break loss and he tossed
in eight buckets Monday night. Nice going "Spoon.

Equestrian Team Takes Individual Honors

With three riders and only the beginning Division I represented, the equestrian team still managed to finish the Dec. 18
intercollegiate horse show at the College of Charleston with major individual honors. In Class 2, Advanced Walk-Trot, Janice Evans placed
second and Jan Withers placed fifth. Kelly Sundberg, entered in Class I, Beginning Walk-Trot, came away with the first blue
ribbon of the Davidson team’s first season with the Intercollegiate Horse Show Association.

The team now looks ahead to two shows in the regular season, including its own show, to be co-sponsored by
Queens College and held at Davidson's riding facility at the Lake Campus in mid-March. A number of riders have a
strong chance at qualifying for the regional horse show in early April. Twenty-one points are required to qualify; points accumulate
depending on the rider’s place finish: seven points for first, five for second, four for third, etc. Sundberg, who has
Davidson's highest point total, and Evans have good shots at regionals in their respective classes. Susan Moore in advanced Walk-Trot-Canter
and Sheryl Aikman in Novice Horsemanship on the Flat, as well as the other riders, also have opportunities to earn
more of the necessary individual points in the upcoming shows.
