outa eee ae goa ge *F TRACTOR PULL: .4 con-. neat immortal football trophy, from the Concession Stand. See page 9. 

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXIV, Number 3
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, September 28, 1984

Ambassador To Head Rusk Endowment Program
By DAVID McGEE

Davidson College last night named Jack R. Perry, a career diplomat and former ambassador to Bulgaria, to head the College’s Dean Rusk Program in International Studies. Perry’s appointment was announced at a dinner in Atlanta. The Trustees approved the program in May of 1983. Atlanta alumni held a dinner last November to launch a fundraising campaign for the program, which honors former U.S. Secretary of State Dean Rusk, a 1931 Davidson graduate. Since then, the college has raised $2.3 million toward the program’s $10 million endowment goal.

Ambassador Jack Perry

The faculty International Education Committee, chaired by economics Professor Clark Ross, selected Perry from nominations it received from alumni, faculty, and friends of the College. According to the committee, “In searching for the first director of the Dean Rusk program, the College wanted an individual with impeccable academic qualifications, extensive international experience, and potential to aid in the fundraising effort for the Rusk Endowment.

“In Ambassador Jack Perry we have found someone who combines all these qualifications; we are indeed fortunate that he is willing to accept this set of challenges.” Perry will move to Davidson next summer, but will begin plans for the program and fundraising events immediately. “Davidson is a great school, and I’m happy to be coming,” were Perry’s first thoughts about his appointment.

Perry, 54, will serve as coordinator of Davidson’s International Education program bringing speakers and visiting professors to campus, conducting seminars, teaching, and directing study-abroad programs for students and faculty. He is currently John C. West Professor of Government and International Studies at The Citadel in Charleston, S.C. About his view of international education, Perry said, “The first priority I would give is that we are participants in a democracy, and it seems to me for people to vote intelligently an informed public opinion [is necessary].

“If they don’t have sound views, they will be left out of the discussion [of inter- (continued on page 4)

Labban Bids Farewell To Teaching
By PEGGY PIEROTTI

After a tearful farewell dinner in Mario’s Restaurant in Florence, Italy, classics Professor George Labban dismissed his final class last spring after 32 years of teaching at Davidson. Labban came to Davidson in 1952 from the University of Texas at Austin. Having done all of his undergraduate and graduate work at Texas, he said he came to Davidson because “I preferred a smaller, more intimate academic environment. I wanted to do my best work — Davidson has proved to be the right place.”

Davidson had no Classics department during Labban’s early years at Davidson. Greek and Latin were taught on introductory levels by professors who taught other subjects as well. “It was an artificial separation,” Labban said. In 1957, however, Labban initiated a change. “Soon after I got here and upon my recommendation, they joined Latin and Greek into the Classics department. It was both a reflection of the confidence that the administration had in me and a reorganization of the administration and faculty that the two areas should be joined as they are everywhere else.” (continued on page 5)

Inn Plans Run Afoul Of Zoning
By DAVID VAN PELT

“If I do nothing, it’s finished. So I'm trying to do something to keep it alive,” religion Professor Tom Clark said of his plans to build a bed-and-breakfast innon Main Street. Town zoning laws and development plans have thwarted Clark's project. Clark purchased property last year reaching from the Davidson Landing to the middle of the courtyard beyond the old Park's Rexall Drug Store on Main Street. His property extends back to Jackson Street. Clark said he purchased the property when Town zoning ordinances permitted the construction of an inn on Main Street, though he knew a change was under consideration by the Town board. The board implemented the zoning change several weeks after he purchased the property. Clark said the board's positive reaction (continued on page 4)

Anorexia, Bulimia Find Davidson Fertile Ground
By ALLISON WILLS

Eating disorders, specifically anorexia nervosa and bulimia, are a “real problem” at Davidson according to assistant Dean of Students Sue Ross. But what are these disorders? And why are women students here so susceptible to this self-imposed, life-threatening behavior? Though research is still ongoing, psychologists are beginning to define eating disorders, find their causes, and propose methods of treatment.

Ninety-five percent of anorexia and bulimia victims are female. The victims of anorexia preoccupy themselves with food and have an obsession with staying thin. Sometimes they diet and exercise rigorously until they look emaciated, but the anorectic insists: “I’m still too fat!” Starvation frequently goes too far and causes death (in an estimated five to 20 percent of known cases) by circulatory failure, electrolyte imbalance, or hypothermia. Though statistics vary, one in 250 women between 12 and 18 becomes anorectic each year, and often these women enter college with the disease.

Bulimia is 10 times as prevalent as anorexia, affecting 25 to 30 percent of college-aged women. Victims of this food obsession engage in repeated overeating binges followed by purges of forced vomiting, prolonged fasting, or abuse of laxatives, enemas, and diuretics. Excessive vomiting (the most common form of purging) is extremely dangerous and can cause death from cardiac arrest, kidney failure, impaired metabolism, or severe dehydration.

Both disorders generally affect bright middle- to upper-class young women who are obedient, successful, and highly motivated. Thus, Davidson tends to attract students highly susceptible to bulimia and anorexia. “With our outstanding population, we'd expect to have a problem,” Ross says. “The cases come through my office because a concerned friend or hall counselor doesn’t know what to do. We confront the student and find professional counseling for her.

“Most bring the disorder to school with them as a freshman, and sometimes it can be dealt with while they're in school — but therapy is sometimes too [time] consuming and several have had to leave and come back.”

Though excessive weight loss can point to anorexia, its victims often deny they have a problem and refuse to get help. Friends become angry and frustrated because an intelligent, successful woman they care about is slowly killing herself, and she will not admit it. “Food is the one area where the woman has absolute control over her life, and asking her to give that up is too much,” Ross said. “The anorectic who is usually otherwise trustworthy, becomes manipulative and deceptive. She lies about food — and what she's eaten — and she can't help it.”

Understandably this deceptive behavior causes problems among peers. One hall counselor who had three women on her hall suffering from severe anorexia last year said that friends usually do not know how to deal with the problem. The behavior does not make sense to them. “The anorectic rebels against her friends who confront her and try to intervene on her control, and she allies herself with understanding friends or those who ignore the problems,” the hall counselor said. “In the later stages friends become angry because even once the therapy has begun, it’s a long-term thing. (continued on page 5)