Special Supplement/December 5, 1984/The Davidsonian

Men’s Basketball: Success Depends on Team Play
By HUNTER GOURLEY

Riddle: What wears red, black, and white, and isn’t very quick or particularly big? Here’s a hint: a Southern Conference
poll of conference sports information directors and head coaches picked it to finish last in the conference this season. Okay,
it was a generous hint. The answer is, of course, the 1984-85 Davidson basketball team. But remember: a poll is
a poll is a poll... and who lives by polls alone nowadays, anyhow?

The fact of the matter is, however, that Davidson was picked to finish last and the players and coaches find
themselves labeled once again as underdogs. Nothing new or particularly revelatory about that situation: Davidson has been perceived more often
as the Underdog-Wildcats, less often as the preferred, plainer and simpler Wildcats. The mission for this year’s team will be
to make up for the loss of two-time All-Southern Conference forward Kenny Wilson and, in so doing, score enough points
to prove the pollsters wrong. The bulk of responsibility for meeting this tall order quite naturally falls to the team’s
returning lettermen.

At the point and sometimes shooting guard position is scrappy, savvy sophomore, Chris Heineman. Heineman took over the play-making slot
at mid-season last year, and piloted the offense effectively throughout the remainder of the season. He was named to the
Southern Conference All-Freshman team. Heineman has looked very consistent during preseason play. Pumped by his Hawaiian brawl with 6’9” 230-pound
Virginia Cavalier Tom Sheehey, Heineman, at 6’2” and weighing in at a mere 155 pounds, more than lives up to
Coach Bobby Hussey’s assessment of him as a real competitor.

The other sophomore is Anthony “Ace” Tanner, a 6’7” 198-pound swoop-dunking machine. He will see time at the forward and
guard positions. Tanner comes fully equipped with a soft, long-armed jumper and plenty of leg power for four-wheeling up, over,
and around any traffic in the lanes. Tanner has demonstrated that he possesses all the skills necessary, and last year’s
exposure.

The five remaining lettermen are all juniors. Their combined efforts, along with the two sophomores and the rest of the
team, will tighten up the scoring slack created by Wilson’s departure. These upperclassmen also share the extra burden of providing
leadership and experience for a young, relatively inexperienced, and seniorless team.

Not many players score as well in the leadership, hard work, and dedication department as do 6’8” Ted Wolfe and
6’7” captain, Ken Niebuhr. Not prolific scorers or big, dominating power forwards, they excel in the fundamentals of hustling, solid
defense, blocking out, and rebounding. They are both back from a productive summer spent playing ball for Athletes in Action
in foreign lands and they, too, are coming off a productive preseason.

Rounding out the returning front-court picture are 6’9” center Jim McConkey and 6’7” forward Gerry Born. These two players provide
some much-needed scoring and rebounding potency to the Wildcats’ inside game. They averaged five rebounds per game each last season
and are the team’s top returning rebounders. McConkey scored a career high 20 points in last season's overtime loss at
Notre Dame. He also hit the boards for a career high 13 rebounds three days later against VMI. Born averaged
over eight points per game, and close to 11 points in the last 17 games of the season. He poured
in 23 points against Appalachian State and pulled down 11 rebounds against Notre Dame.

The top returning scorer on the 1984-85 roster is 6’1” penetrating guard, Pepper Bego. He averaged over 10 points last
season and has already scored 17 points this season against Wofford. Bego also compiled 31 steals, second only to Wilson.
Perhaps Bego’s strongest attribute lies in his intelligent offensive awareness of his own abilities: he knows what he can and
cannot do, reacts to the defensive pressure, and then does the right thing.

Among these returning players are no real stars or obvious stand-outs. The astute follower of Davidson basketball probably knows that’s
how Coach Hussey likes to play ball. The idea is to get five or six players scoring in double figures
and to play team ball. That way everybody contributes to the success and development of the team.

Nov. 29 Marathon Oil (Exhibition)
Dec. 1 Wofford
3 Erskine
5 Wake Forest (Chit)
8 at UNCC
12 St. John’s (Chit)
17 at Duke
28-30 at Far West Classic
Jan. 2 at Furman
5 Notre Dame (Chit)
10 E. Tennessee
12 at Appalachian
19 Marshall
21 at VMI
24 at USC
26 Citadel
31 at Western Carolina
Feb. 2 UT-Chattanooga
4 Appalachian (Chit)
6 Furman
9 at UT-Chattanooga
11 at E. Tennessee
16 at Marshall
18 at Citadel
21 VMI
23 Western Carolina
Mar. 1-3 S. Conference Tournament

Conference Teams Find Parity At Top And Bottom
By STEVE BYERS

There are nine teams in the Southern Conference. Only eight will go to the Southern Conference tournament in Asheville in
early...March. But, this year, due to the expansion of the NCAA tournament field, the conference has a very good shot
at sending two representatives to the big party. But which two teams will it be? This season there promises to
be a scramble at the top between Marshall, Western Carolina, UT-C, and possibly Appalachian State. Davidson probably will be stuck
in the second division, along with The Citadel, East Tennessee, Furman, and VMI. In other words, parity has arrived in
the Southern Conference. But in different groups. Keep in mind: no shot clock this year, no three-pointers, a new coaches
box, and probably a lot more traveling calls (a league order).

Marshall
Last year, the Thundering Herd won it all — the regular season race and the tournament. It could have signified
the changing of the guard in the conference, from UT-C domination to a new Marshall dynasty. Second-year Coach Rick Huckabay,
a man not afraid to speak his mind, loves full-court presses and fast breaks. Running is top priority at Marshall
and Huckabay once again has the players to wear down most opponents. Gone is last season's star, LaVerne Evans, but
back are three starters and an excellent recruiting class.

Western Carolina
Coach Steve Cottrell and his Catamounts have the best chance at replacing the Herd should Marshall falter. Cottrell also recruited
well, and three starters are returning from last year. The best player is 6'2” guard Quinton Lytle, who should finally
receive some attention this year now that Evans and Willie White are gone. Lytle averaged 20.8 ppg last season as
a junior, and he could really explode this year. Western has some size up front at last, which could mean
that possible second bid to the NCAA’s might be mailed to Cullowhee.

Appalachian State
Optimism reigns supreme in Boone, and why not? Three starters are back from last year’s 13-16 squad, including potential stars
Wade Capehart and Glenn Clyburn. Also back, and now eligible to play, is North Carolina transfer Lynwood Robinson, a point
guard who could be the difference for Coach Kevin Cantwell this season. Another transfer who could have immediate impact is
6'6” James Carlton. Cantwell finally has the talent comparable to those Bobby Cremins’ teams of the late 70's. Now, can
he do something with it?

UT-Chattanooga
The good news is that UT-C is no longer the best team in the conference. The bad news is that
the Moccasins are still good enough to beat every team in the league. White is no longer around to terrify
opposing defenses, but starters Clifford Morgan and Gerald Wilkins (Dominique’s little brother) are back. Coach Murray Arnold knows how to
win, and don’t think he enjoyed finishing second last season. If some top recruits can contribute, and if Wilkins can
realize his potential, UT-C could make a run.

The Citadel
The Bulldogs surprised people last year by finishing in the conference's first division. And Coach Les Robinson might surprise some
this season. After all, 6'4” swingman Regan Truesdale returns for his senior year, and Truesdale is perhaps the best all-around
player in the league. Also back from last year are starting point guard Jimmy Tharpe and starting forward Shawn Brown.
The Citadel will have a tougher road this season because of a relatively small front line and because Truesdale will
see a lot of double teams.

East Tennessee State
The Buccaneers fell on hard times last season, finishing 6-10 in the conference and 9-19 overall. Coach Barry Dowd should
improve on that this year — he lost only one player to graduation from last season's team. Four starters return,
including high-scoring junior guard James Tandy. There is depth, and ETSU does have a few quality players but, realistically, the
best it can hope for is a spoiler role during the season. If the team jells by late in the
season, it could be a factor in the tournament.

VMI
Pity poor Marty Fletcher, who is entering his second year as head coach of the Keydets. All five of his
starters from last season are back, so really VMI can't help but get better. Yet Fletcher's program gets no respect
— everyone expects the Keydets to be bad, and they usually don't disappoint. But this year, who knows? Cedric Wins
and Gay Elmore are solid, if not spectacular players, and Fletcher finally has some depth to work with. Let's not
kid ourselves, though: VMI will not seriously challenge for the title, but neither will it finish in the cellar.

Furman
Providing Davidson can upset a few teams, I predict that Coach Jene Davis’ squad will not be invited to Asheville
come March though seniors Noel Gilliard and Kevin Bryant return as starters. Davis may have one of the best backcourts
in the league in Shawn Reid and Dave Conrady, but that is a very young team, and it won’t be
nearly enough this year. Remember back in the 70's when the Paladins had one of the best teams in the
conference and turned out players like Jonathan “Stitch” Moore and Mel Daniel? The mighty have fallen.
