Friday, February 17, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Faculty Re-Evaluate Church Association

By DAVID VAN PELT

Davidson’s recent faculty retreat addressed the implications and responsibilities of church-relatedness at a liberal arts college. Twenty-eight faculty and staff
members participated in the retreat Feb. 3-5, which presented the opportunity for a re-evaluation of Davidson’s church association.

“It was not a conference designed to resolve anything,” Religion professor David Kaylor said. Instead, he said it “presented a
framework within which one can grapple with what church-relatedness should be.”

Discussion among faculty and retreat leader Harry Smith focused in part on ethical values thought to be indispensable to a
church-related college. Any church-related college, for example, “should have a concern for people,” according to assistant political science professor Mary
Thornberry. At Davidson such interest forms “an integral part of what we are,” she said. She cited the Housing Office
and its “concern for individuals” as an example.

Several professors referred to changes in campus life which make Davidson more in line with these values. “The change in
coeducation and fraternity system made Davidson a more humane place, and brought out the best in Davidson students,” Union Director
William Brown said. Referring to the rejection prevalent under Davidson’s old fraternity system, he said, “It seems to me that
Davidson supported a system that ran counter to any Christian values that I can affirm.” Praising the opening of Davidson
to women, he nonetheless warned, “I would say Davidson still has a long way to go in making women full
members of this community.”

Chaplain Charlie Summers emphasized the decrease in direct church influence over the lives of students. In former years, he said,
vespers and chapel attendance were compulsory, drinking was prohibited, and Sunday activities were regulated. “We left a lot of those
rules, and with them the idea that the church can require that students take part in church activities,” he said.

However, Summers stressed the indirect influence of Christian values on campus life. Because all liberal arts colleges grew out of
the church, he said, and the values of Western civilization sprang from Christian values, Davidson’s ethical tenets such as the
Honor Code and Code of Responsibility have roots in Christian tradition.

Summers noted the Church’s direct links with Davidson. Presbyterians in North Carolina and Florida elect 24 of 50 Davidson Trustees,
and the Church gives a small amount to Davidson’s budget. “The Trustees are very concerned to find a President who
will no doubt have some kind of serious commitment to the Church,” he said.

One aspect of the retreat involved a hypothetical case study, the possible showing of an X-rated movie on campus, to
gauge faculty response in line with church affiliation. Many faculty members concluded that a refusal to allow the movie to
be shown would not necessarily...

A News Analysis, Part Two

Athletic Department Learns To Conserve Money

By JOHN GATHINGS

With all the positive emphasis on the revenue sports it is sometimes easy to overlook the fact that they have
problems as a result of insufficient funding as well as the non-revenue sports. Men’s football and basketball are making similar
sacrifices in order to cope with the budget. Athletic Director Ed Farrell said the problems “go for basketball, that everyone
thinks is the rich kid on the block, right on down the line.”

The football team has to be careful to conserve money. “We go and then return the same night for football
games, when other teams would stay,” Farrell said. “When Furman comes they stay in Charlotte. When we go there we
come back after the game.” He said the basketball team also avoids spending the night unless absolutely necessary. Farrell said,
“As a football coach I feel it would be nice to go and stay overnight, but our budget is needed
in other places so we have to make sacrifices.”

Farrell said he plans to conserve even more money in the football program by scheduling more local games, rather than
playing schools such as Bucknell, which require greater travel expenditures. Football is in a special situation which the other sports
do not have to confront. Because Davidson is a member of the Southern Conference, the football team is required to
play a certain number of Southern Conference games. However, because the budget is so limited, the football team cannot afford
to recruit players with scholarships. Frank said, “I feel football is a sacrificial lamb.”

Quarterback and kicker Jack McCollum believes this is an important element in getting a good football team. “Davidson loses a
lot of good football players because of the lack of scholarships,” he said. “The teams we play give out a
lot of free rides. Football players have to sacrifice a lot.”

Not only teams, but coaches are also feeling pressure from the situation, because the budget is too small to allow
each sport a separate coach. Talking about the situation of Davidson’s coaches, Farrell said, “Everybody over there is working in
more than one area.”

“I certainly feel it would be ideal to have just one responsibility for each coach. I’d prefer it...Here is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"If their dual job didn’t include two sports; that’s a conflict of interest. It would be better if you coached
and had an administrative position,” he said. The staff cannot increase without an athletic budget increase. However, other schools have
similar problems. “Many schools will hire part-time coaches, which is one thing we don't have to do. That arrangement is
not unusual at all,” Farrell said. Women’s tennis coach Caroline Brown said she has an ideal view of what the
program should be, but she realizes she has to be realistic. “I don’t look at it as unfair,” she said.
“I just see if I can have a successful team with the money allotted to me.” Farrell also has ideals
about the athletic program. He believes if he had $60,000 more in the athletic budget, he could vastly improve the
program. However, he acknowledges the fact that he has to be realistic and find his solutions within the budget he
already has. “The dollar is a real thing, expenses are a real thing,” he said. There are several options available
to solve the problems. One possibility for getting more money into the program is fundraising. The track team sold doughnuts
in the fall to raise money. Farrell said some teams sell tickets to football games and get paid $100 per
game, money once paid to a group outside the College for the same job. The field hockey team sold programs
at men’s basketball games and made 15¢ to 18¢ per program. Alumni support is another major source of money for
the athletic department. This money is handled by the Wildcat Club and goes directly into the athletic department. A major
portion of these funds go to need-based football scholarships. Although there are no scholarships awarded on a competitive basis, the
Wildcat Club provides funds to supplement the financial aid package of football players. The money goes to replace the job
and loan portions of a student’s aid package. Farrell said, “With the job, academics, and playing, a student has got
more than anyone needs to do.” Farrell is quick to point out that no student gets an amount in excess
of his need. Other teams are also able to benefit from this special arrangement. Currently, one tennis player is utilizing
this option. Funds not used for these relationships go into the total athletic program, to be used wherever they are
needed. Another possibility for making more funds available in the athletic department is the channeling of television revenues. “We will
get $76,000 just from football this year. My feeling is that it should be made available to be spent next
year.” This February the Trustees will meet to decide the budget. Farrell is including the past revenue in the budget
he will submit. “We could solve some problems by adding TV money,” he said.

The basis of the decision on how you deal with it would not be specifically religious values, but on humanitarian
grounds,” Brown said. “People may share the values with us without sharing the Christian commitment,” psychology professor John Kelton said.
“I don’t think the church has any corner on good values.” Referring to the retreat, Kelton said, “I think it
was a good session, not that it came to any clear-cut answers as to what church-related means at Davidson College,
but the fact that it raised the question.” As retreat leader Harry Smith noted in a speech about the characteristics
of church-related colleges, “Failure to take such questions with radical seriousness, whether in public or private institutions, subverts the [church]
tradition itself.”

Terry, Bolding Announce Ban On Kegs In Residences
By TOM SCHILLING

Kegs are now forbidden in all residence halls and off-campus houses without written approval from the Housing Office, according to
a statement released yesterday from Dean of Students Will Terry and Housing Director Bill Bolding. The ban takes effect immediately.
Violators will be prosecuted according to the Code of Responsibility. A person or group must accept responsibility for damages and
clean-up to obtain approval for having a keg. According to the announcement, “many people have failed to acknowledge their culpability
in the damage, leaving others to pay for that damage. The use of kegs seems to exacerbate the situation because
people drink the keg dry rather than waste it. The drinker ‘gets wasted’ and often goes on a binge of
vandalism.” Bolding would not cite specific instances which prompted the move, but he did say that “several instances in the
new dorms and in Belk in the last few weeks” have caused problems. Terry mentioned one night in which some
kegs were bowled down a hall. Terry commented that the intention is to encourage students to “drink more responsibly.” He
feels that kegs promote alcohol abuse because people tend to try to finish them and get “too wasted.” Junior Mark
Steiner opposed the move and pointed out that “now we will just buy ten cases and throw the cans in
the hall.” Bolding added, “We're not saying that they can’t have kegs.”

---
