4 Friday, April 27, 1984 / The Davidsonian

ATC Seeks To Balance Organizational Budget

(continued from page 1)

Cooper criticized the ATC’s decision-making process. “The whole thing is really bureaucratic,” he said. “Most of the opposition came from [committee member] Dean Terry. He didn’t discuss things with us at all. He made flippant remarks throughout the whole meeting. He didn’t really talk to us one-on-one.” Cooper praised Ester Kim for her part in ATC affairs. “Ester has been really great,” he said.

Not all campus organizations are critical of ATC allotments. The SGA received $5,500, $1,000 less than it requested but $1,000 more than it received last year. Though the ATC cut a $500 request to help fund SGA Weekend, the SGA “can work within the budget they gave us,” SGA President John Laughlin said.

Kuykendall Speaks

(continued from page 1)

“But this belief has implications for everyone else who intends to be engaged in the enterprise of making a college too. For you (the students), Davidson must not merely be an extension of home or high school, or a prologue to graduate school, or life’s calling... This is Davidson.”

“The excitement will be,” he said, “in trying to discover precisely what this Davidson is supposed to be and become.”

Kuykendall said he would avoid the basic error of “the comfortable illusion that where I am is where I have been in the past.”

“I am left — at least until July 1 — in a state which feels very much like a vacuum. I watch, I listen, I read, I ponder — but the impressions are mediated rather than immediate.”

He asked for tolerance of his answers of “I don’t know,” and the “Dutchman’s shrug,” which he might give in response to specific questions about Davidson.

Two students asked questions about racial and religious minorities on campus.

Kuykendall said the College could be more aggressive in attaining its goals to improve racial relations on campus, and pointed out that some of the goals of “Project ’87,” proposed by the Black Student Coalition, would be difficult to achieve. He said his experience in the study of religions and in the Presbyterian Church would help him deal with problems with religious minorities on campus.

Kuykendall attended a reception afterwards, and visited The Davidsonian offices.

Kuykendall will take office July 1.

“I’m happy with what we got,” said Amnesty International President Hunter Monroe of AI’s $600 allotment, $200 less than requested but $200 more than last year. “We weren’t happy at all last year.” Monroe said last year’s appropriation forced AI “to cut back on our most expensive thing, our speakers.”

Kim is in the process of notifying campus organizations of their allotments. The SGA will then vote on the appropriations at next Tuesday’s meeting. Though some organizations are considering presenting their cases against the allotments at the SGA meeting, Kim said that another presentation would probably have “little effect” on the SGA vote. The reason for this, she said, was that several SGA members are also on the ATC.

The nine-person council includes SGA Vice-president Beadsie Woo and Senator Mark Sandy, Business Manager Robert Currie, Will Terry, Union Director William Brown, Kim, and three at-large representatives, Thomas Evans, Stuart Gordon, and Rod Holman. Kim does not view the presence of SGA members on the ATC as a conflict of interests. “We try to be as objective as possible,” she said.

KING OF PIZZA

225 S. Broad St.

FAMILY NIGHT

Every Monday Night
5 To 10

PIZZA

BUY ONE PIZZA
(ANY SIZE)
GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE

FREE

THE DAVIDSONIAN:
Because the news matters...

If you want to stay in touch with events at Davidson College, subscribe to The Davidsonian. For only $12 per year ($23 for first class postal rates), you will receive 27 issues which will keep you up to date on College news. Send your check to:
The Davidsonian
P. O. Box 218
Davidson, NC 28036