10 Friday, March 16, 1984 / The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Wildcats Bow To Thundering Herd In S.C. Tourney

By STEVE SOUD

Davidson's 78-68 first-round tournament loss to Marshall confirmed what had been many Wildcat onlookers’ early season fears: the young Cats had neither the experience nor the firepower to compete among upper-division Southern Conference teams. It was a heartening season in many senses, however. Despite the loss of Rafael Hernandez and Caryl Dawson, two of the team’s most talented players, the team refused to collapse. Gerry Born and Pepper Bego emerged as forces to be reckoned with and as stars of the future.

Against the league-leading Thundering Herd, Davidson’s resilient youth — and its relentless tenacity — showed through, and kept the Cats in the game. Marshall’s forty-minute full-court press flustered the young Wildcat backcourt early, and the Herd raced to an early 8-2 lead. However, balanced scoring from senior All-Conference, Honorable Mention All-American Kenny Wilson, Born, and Bego brought Davidson to within three points, 26-23, with 2:50 remaining. Freshman point guard Chris Heineman, who had been doing a steady job bringing the ball upcourt against the press, lost the ball out of bounds and argued with the referee’s call. The official charged Heineman with a technical foul, giving Marshall the chance to cushion its lead. The Herd squandered the opportunity by missing the free throw and turning the ball over to Wilson, who cut the lead to one with a baseline 15-footer. A Robert Eppes free throw and David Wade jumper gave Marshall a four-point lead, but with 1:20 remaining Davidson had plenty of time to work for a high-percentage shot. Herd guard Jeff Battle stole the ball, however, giving Marshall a 31-25 lead with :38 remaining. Sophomore Jim McConkey countered that with a tip-in with :13 left, keeping Davidson close. A Sam Henry three-pointer at the buzzer gave Marshall its biggest lead of the half, though, 34-27.

Marshall continued to apply full-court pressure in the second half, and an injury to Heineman early in the half forced a crucial play. Heineman had played well, committing only five of the team’s 25 turnovers while handling the ball a majority of the game. His injury brought in reserve walk-on Bill Naso, who played well in Heineman’s place. By the midway point of the half, the Marshall lead was 13 points, and they appeared to be cruising to an easy win. With 7:50 remaining Bego cut it back to ten points, 60-50. Then with 7:05 remaining, Wilson hit the last dunk of his Davidson career, and it was a beauty: he flew through a host of Marshall big men and jammed a follow-up with a resounding crash of the breakaway rim. Battle fouled Bego on a steal, and the sophomore sank both ends of a one-and-one to cut the margin to six, 60-54, with 6:50 remaining. Marshall quelled the rally as reserve Don Turney (who was 8 for 8 from the line) sank4 free throws and a layup to reestablish a 12-point Marshall lead. Turney’s fast break dunk with 4:15 left broke the comeback. Wilson’s 21 and Born’s 18 led all scores. Turney, coming off the bench, scored 16 for Marshall. Bego had 13. It was a tribute to this team’s youthful resiliency, however, which showed through on the bus trip home. Born and Heineman were already engrossed in talking about next year’s bright, bright hopes.

Young Baseball Team Needs Consistent Pitching
By ANDY BARRON

The hallmarks of great baseball teams are pitching and consistency. To make the 1984 season successful, the Wildcats need more of both. “Our team will do as well as our pitchers,” said Coach George Greer. Providing the bulk of the pitching will be senior Scott Redding, sophomores Scott Weaver and Chip Knox, and freshmen Billy Waitsmen and Steve Condon. So far, the pitching has been unstable. Better pitching is crucial to the Cats’ fortunes this season.

The team has had its ups and downs. “Our team is 4-3. With some luck, we could be 6-1,” said Greer. Among the ups are a 4-3 comeback win over Connecticut and a win over Wake Forest. The lows include a 14-1 loss to Catawba. “College baseball is very competitive in the South. We need a good team effort to be competitive,” said Greer. All twenty players need to contribute to that team effort, Greer explained. “Consistency from the sophomores and freshmen is critical. Due to labs, papers, and the rest of the class load of our players, people won't always be able to play. The sophomores and freshmen must be ready to fill those gaps when they develop.”

Though it is a cliché, the Cats are a young team. There are thirteen freshmen on the roster. Several freshmen will have to develop quickly. So far Dave Turgeon has hit very well. Catcher Dan Simonds and centerfielder Dave Depaul are regulars in the lineup and performing solidly. Add pitchers Waitsmen and Condon and at this point the freshmen look promising.

There are four sophomores on the team. Shortstop Keith Helfant is hitting .357 and fielding flawlessly through seven games. Weaver is leading the pitching staff in wins and innings pitched. Added contributions from pitcher/outfielder Knox and infielder Tim Waters will be necessary for Davidson to challenge for the play-offs later this season. With no juniors on the roster, seniors Mick Smith, Jeff McSwain and Redding will have to provide extra leadership for the underclassmen. So far, Redding has been setting a fine example by leading the team in hitting as well as pitching.

The main goal of the season, obviously, is to make the Southern Conference playoffs. To do this, Davidson must finish first or second in the division, which includes Furman, Western Carolina, and The Citadel. Because WCU and The Citadel both have very solid teams, this will be a difficult goal. Yet there is plenty of optimism on the team. As senior Mick Smith said, “This is the best team since I’ve been here.”