Friday, October 5, 1984 / The Davidsonian 11

OPINIONS

JYA Must Not Be Excuse To Neglect Academics

Peggy Pierotti

Davidson College has an incredible resource of international education programs for every member of this institution. Aside from the $10 million Rusk Endowment, there are programs taught in over nine foreign countries, and, if you can’t go abroad personally, you can associate with visiting professors and exchange students from any corner of the world. Davidson does indeed seem to be promoting a “global perspective.”

Davidson students, however, seem to be quite unable to appreciate this opportunity to learn and benefit. Be it immaturity or ignorance, it is certainly a waste. According to a recent news release from the Communications office, “30 percent of the student body participates in the college’s study abroad programs.” Being a part of this 30 percent (I had the fortune to spend last Spring in Greece and Italy with the Classics Abroad seminar), I realize entirely too well how easy it is to get to Europe and relax. Being 6000 miles from Chambers, Will Terry and an exam envelope has the interesting effect of making people aware of the chances for inexpensive partying.

The classics program is especially prone to this, since we do not speak the native language and since we are required to stay together as a group. (Seldom were we permitted to explore alone, and never were we encouraged to meet the countries’ residents.) While the programs in France, Germany, Spain, Mexico, and India do require the participant to learn the language, it is still far too easy for the student to drift away from thoughts of real academic seriousness.

Moreover, this lack of seriousness is especially prevalent in programs such as JYA to England or Scotland — these students not only don’t have to master a language, but also receive only pass/fail credits for the year. There is little incentive for committed studying, and from comments from students in these programs, I fear that little commitment is made.

My mailbox will undoubtedly be filled with the responses either that there is no academic compromise or that whatever compromise exists is made up for by the experience gained from being abroad. I know that there is an academic compromise, more or less depending on each individual, especially in light of Davidson’s excellence in academic achievement. The second objection, however, is possibly valid.

I must admit that even the exposure to a foreign culture is both educational and rewarding. I cannot deny that I gained a great deal of practical experience and self-knowledge during my trip. Everyone ought to go abroad for those reasons. It must be true, though, that academic devotion would add a lot to the experience. One doesn’t have to compromise academics in order to experience a culture.

The problem is not limited to Davidson students, however. Some of the renowned Rusk scholars have been less than what Davidson expects. In the past, the attitudes of some Rusk scholars towards “Davidson Country Club” have been clearly revealed in their refusal to study or to turn in required papers. I personally resent this attitude, and I should hope that I am not alone in feeling that those who do not respect Davidson academically do not belong here at all.

Davidson students, also, should not have a place at any institution they do not respect — be it in Montpellier, Marburg, London, or Athens. The college has recognized the need for an international awareness and has provided us with incredible resources. We owe it to ourselves, our futures, and the school to take this form of education at least as seriously as any other course of study.

The Church-College Relationship

Hartley Hall

On Friday, Oct. 5, John W. Kuykendall will be installed as the 15th president of Davidson College. With his installation comes the excitement and expectation that always follows such a change, as we reexamine where we have been and set our sights firmly upon the future. One area that has been of interest to many parties in our Davidson community is the area of the Church-College relationship.

It is helpful, in such a case, to examine the history, the philosophy, and the continuing status of the Presbyterian commitment to education in general and to Davidson in particular. The Presbyterian commitment to education is historic, and theological in its roots. The church/education relationship grows out of John Calvin’s belief that “all knowledge is God’s knowledge,” the reformed tradition of an educated clergy and an informed, literate lay populace, and the Scottish experiments in public education. It sits solidly upon the doctrine of the sovereignty of God — the cornerstone of the Protestant reformation.

To say that this relationship is theological in its roots is to say that it is not humanistic in origin. That is, it comes not from the notions that education is “good” in and of itself, that education makes for the “good life,” or that education makes one a “better” person; although education may well do, and probably does, all of these. The relationship is not utilitarian in origin. That is, it comes not from the notions that knowledge is “useful,” that knowledge helps one to get a good job, or that by having knowledge one understands and therefore deals better with life; although, once again,It may well do, and probably does, all of these. The theological origin of education says that God is sovereign over all the world and requires of us a response, a commitment, and responsibility to serve the greater world around us as a sign of our faithfulness. Education is a necessity if we are to be informed about, and able to deal with, the problems of the world. The Orthodox Reformed tradition has never been skeptical or hostile to new ideas or discoveries. New scientific discoveries are simply God's further revelation of the intricate workings of His world. Calvin wrote, “If the Lord has willed that we be helped in physics, mathematics, or other like disciplines... let us use this assistance. For if we neglect God's gift freely offered in these arts, we ought to suffer just punishment for our sloth.”

Religion Professor Alexander McKelway, in an address to the Calvin Studies Society, wrote, “When science corrects religious descriptions of the world of nature, it only corrects bad science and in no way challenges Christian faith. On the other hand, when science claims ‘knowledge’ of ultimate causation... then science has become bad religion requiring theological correction.”

The rationale for our commitment to responsible service in the world, more than only a response to God's grace, can be found in the doctrine of the “common grace.” McKelway writes: “If God is sovereign over his work of creation, the light of his spirit will not be confined to the community of faith.” Thus God's grace which allows us to be well educated is properly directed outward, into the world, spread about among the “common” or whole community. This outward social orientation has always been a hallmark of the Presbyterian commitment to education. The theological origin of education says that God is sovereign over all the world and requires of us a response, a commitment, and a responsibility to serve the greater world around us as a sign of our faithfulness.

Calvin wrote that it was the teacher's job to instruct in “languages and in liberal arts, that the youth of the community might be prepared not only for the ministry, but for civil government as well.” Thus Presbyterian schools in America grew up partially in reaction against other denominational schools (such as Baptists and Mormons) who wanted to espouse a particular sectarian point of view. The Scottish experiment in public education began during the Renaissance when Protestantism was fast becoming the dominant force over Catholicism in Europe. The Scots saw that most people who were becoming educated were converting to Protestantism. They concluded that if you simply educate a person in the liberal arts, that person will naturally opt for a Protestant view of the world. Although this is no longer a strong impetus, it does also help to explain why a sectarian point of view was not seen as necessary and never has been.

In this country, the University of North Carolina, the University of Georgia, and the University of Ohio were all begun by Presbyterians and maintained their Presbyterian ties well into the 20th century. As late as 1947, the majority of all college graduates in this country were graduates of church-related colleges. The Presbyterian commitment to education today continues. Before the union of the two Presbyterian churches, the PCUS (the old Southern Church) supported 14 colleges, two affiliated colleges, five theological institutions, and five junior colleges — through a denomination of less than a million communicant workers (830,000). Rev. E. Lee Willingham of Davidson's Living Endowment department estimates that as much as 65 to 70 percent of Davidson's endowment of $37 million has come from Presbyterian pockets.

Is Davidson's relationship to the Presbyterian church anachronistic for today? And if not, whither then are we tending? At a Church convention talk in Banner Elk, T. H. Hall of the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond outlined some of the past rationales that no longer hold true, including the following:
—The College served the church by providing a context for education of the men who would go into the ministry. No more. From the Davidson College Class of 1951, 27 students went to Union Seminary. In 1981, only one went.
—Going to a church-related college perpetuates a particular constituency and makes a “good Presbyterian.” Fact: No more than 20 percent of Davidson's students today are Presbyterians.
—A church college is a “safe” place to send a son or daughter and shield them from the “Godless University.” Ha. A single Saturday night at Davidson will quickly dispel this one.

What then is Davidson's role in the life of the Church? The Church's responsibility to society, through Davidson, is a form of witness. By way of a strong liberal arts education and a sense of our responsibility to the greater world, Davidson serves the Church indirectly, via its influence on the whole of society. Kuykendall described Davidson as a school “not for Presbyterians, but a Presbyterian system for the common good... The two (Church and Davidson) serve as helpful critics of each other... On the theological level, the Church gives direction, permanence and stability” to Davidson while Davidson serves the Church through its educational witness.

Hall is a senior economics major from Richmond, Va.