Friday, March 16, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Open Luncheon Sponsors Speaker on Hunger

Next week's open luncheon will feature Chris Loftis, a Southeastern Theological Seminary student who has devoted his efforts to helping CROP, a world hunger organization. Two years ago, Loftis walked 700 miles across North Carolina to raise money for CROP and to increase hunger awareness. Last year he walked from Raleigh to Washington, D.C. He will share his experiences of staying with hungry people on his walks. He will also sing.

Eating House and Fraternity Officers Elected

Fannie and Mable — Sherri Schwenke, president; Catherine Melton, vice president; Mark Steiner, treasurer; David Resnik and Paul Price, social chairmen.

Phi Delt — Bob Letton, president; John Malone, vice president; David Vaughan, treasurer.

Emanon — Sid Jones, president; Steve Hughes and Gina Triplett, vice presidents; Liz Ruehl, treasurer; Rhett Brown and Lynn Powell, social chairmen.

PAX — Murray Simpson, president; Garry Banks, vice president; Tim McGaughey, treasurer; Janice Evans and Elizabeth Simpson, social chairmen.

Rusk — Paige Marsh, president; Binny Jannetta, vice president; Lisa McNeilly, treasurer; Susie Myers, social chairman.

KA — Tony Holt, president; Jack Cobb, vice president; Hartley Hall, treasurer; Taylor Bowen, social chairman.

Fiji — Marshall Johnston, president; Jim Labrec, treasurer; John Toler, social chairman.

SPE — Steve MacMillan, president; Mike Washburn, vice president; Gus Janeson, treasurer; Brad Waddell, social chairman.

Warner Hall, SAE, and the BSC have not yet elected their new officers.

Programs Spotlight In Search of Excellence

On Thursday, March 22, the Pre-Management Committee will host two programs dealing with the bestseller In Search of Excellence by Thomas J. Peters and Robert H. Waterman, Jr. At 4 p.m., Crawford Crenshaw '76 will deliver a speech outlining the managerial strategies and techniques espoused by the book. A Harvard Business School graduate, Crenshaw works for McKinsey & Company, the management consulting firm where the authors worked during their preparation of the book, which included researching 43 excellent companies.

At 7:30, a group of panelists will discuss successful management methods which they have encountered, as well as those explained in the bestselling book. In addition to Crenshaw, the panel will include Sara Cohen of Apple Computers, Inc.; Price Gwynn III of Lance, Inc.; and John Savage of Nucor Corporation. The Pre-Management Committee attempts to keep the Davidson College community abreast of trends and opportunities in business and management.

Thompson Twins to Perform at Davidson

The Thompson Twins will come to Love Auditorium on Saturday, April 9. The popular British band first achieved prominence with its 1982 album, In The Name of Love. They have since released Sidekicks, which contained the hits “Lies” and “Love On Your Side,” and their current LP, Into the Gap, featuring “Hold Me Now,” their biggest international single. The band has appeared with The Police, David Bowie, and Peter Gabriel. Tickets for the show go on sale in the Union this Monday. Tickets will be $5, and will be limited to four per person. The opening act for the show is as yet undecided.

NEWS SUMMARY—

Musical arrangements have also been made for Spring Frolics Weekend. The band Stoneshow, a tribute to the Rolling Stones, will perform on Saturday, April 14, on the football field. The band, which has been in existence less than two years, plays...A repertoire of Rolling Stones classics, and features lead singer Mike Carey imitating Mick Jagger.

Rhodora Trio to Play in Hodson Hall

The Rhodora Trio will present works by Bach, Poulenc, Hindemith, and Damase at 8 p.m. Sunday in Hodson Hall. Members of the trio are Shirley Jackson, flutist with the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra; and Cynthia Lawing, pianist and three-time soloist with the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra. The concert is dedicated to the memory of Dr. Cynthia Grant, former Davidson College biology professor who died in January. It will be broadcast live on WDAV (89.9 FM).

Davidson's instrumental ensembles, also recently returned from a spring tour, will perform at 8:15 p.m. Tuesday in Hodson Hall. The wind ensemble will perform works by Dvorak, Holst, and William Schuman. The concert also will feature performances by the jazz ensemble and other chamber ensembles.

Second Sloan Liberal Arts Symposium

The increase in utility rates since 1970 and the abandonment of nuclear power plants have stirred national debate about the cost of electricity. Are the price increases fair? Who should pay the cost of power plants that will never produce—the customers or the shareholders? These and other questions will be addressed next week in a symposium called: “Technology and Values: Decision Theory and Electric Rates.”

Symposium participants will be Robert K. Koger, chairman of the North Carolina Utilities Commission; Stephen P. Reynolds, manager of rates for Pacific Gas and Electric Company; Dr. Earl R. MacCormac, Charles A. Dana professor of philosophy at Davidson and adjunct professor of industrial engineering at N.C. State University; and Richard F. Hirsh, assistant professor of the history of technology at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University and visiting scholar at Harvard Business School. All lectures will be held in the Gallery of the Chambers Building, and are open to the public.

The symposium is the second in a series sponsored by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, which awarded Davidson $250,000 in 1982 to increase the role of technology and quantitative study in its curriculum. Four additional symposia which will follow are “Mathematics of Clustering Algorithms,” in October 1984; “Photography: A Technological Art Form,” January 1985; “Technology and Freedom,” March 1985; and “Collapse of the City Infrastructure: Water, Sewer, and Public Policy,” October 1985.

Writing Competitions Announced

The English department this term will offer two creative writing competitions. The Vereen Bell competition is open to any regularly enrolled Davidson College student above the freshman class. The Whitney Hall Competition is limited to freshmen. Manuscripts should indicate the name of the competition for which they are submitted. All entries must be the original work of their respective entrants and may fall in any recognized category of creative writing, such as fiction, drama, poetry, or the essay. Students may submit as many entries in as many different categories as they wish. Poems should be submitted as groups rather than as individual entries. All entries must be typed, double spaced, and must appear on one side of the paper only. The name of the writer must be enclosed in an attached envelope bearing the title of the entry. No name should appear on the manuscript itself.

All entries must reach some member of the Department of English by 5 p.m. Wednesday, April 4. Students entering another competition must be present at the awards ceremony. The judge for the Vereen Bell award this year is the distinguished poet, Dave Smith, twice a runner-up for the Pulitzer Prize. He will present the awards at a ceremony at 7:30 p.m.