4 Friday, January 20, 1984 / The Davidsonian

AT&T Deregulation Causes Phone Rate Increase
By RAND HARTSELL

Students can expect the cost of using their phone locally to increase as the result of this January’s AT&T deregulation, but the cost of calling out of state to decrease.

Don Elmore, an assistant staff manager for Southern Bell in Charlotte, explained that Southern Bell has requested a rate increase of $5.75 per customer per rate group. The ten rate groups range from small sparsely populated areas such as the northwestern mountain sections of North Carolina, to the densely populated metropolitan area surrounding and including Charlotte.

“We have also requested that the cost of using pay phones be raised from 20¢ per call to 25¢ per call; and that directory assistance rates increase from the present 20¢ charge per use to 50¢ per use... with the complimentary first five uses remaining free,” Elmore said.

Elmore explained that Southern Bell will bill for phone usage to which they provide access. After AT&T’s Jan. 1 divestiture, North Carolina was divided into regions called LATA’s. If one places a call within the LATA, Southern Bell has responsibility for providing the call. If the call traverses the LATA boundaries, including out of state calls, AT&T assumes responsibility for providing the call. A customer will receive only one bill, however, and that bill will come from Southern Bell.

Joyce Deaton, AT&T's public relations manager for North Carolina in Charlotte, explained that Southern Bell not only charges the customer for access to the phone line, but they also charge AT&T for the use of the existing lines on which long distance service is provided. Those charges amount to the following: Southern Bell charges residents $1.09 per month for access to the long distance phone lines; businesses are charged $2.61 per month for long distance access; and AT&T is charged 4.61 cents per minute of long distance calls made by customers.

In April, the Public Utilities Commission will rule whether or not AT&T may lower their long distance rates by a proposed 10.5 percent. Deaton said that in all likelihood, the proposal should pass. This ruling will apply only to interstate rates, however. Deaton said that intrastate rates will probably remain unchanged; since Southern Bell plays a more active role in intrastate service, those rates are more subject to Southern Bell proposals.

SGA Symposium To Develop Leadership Skills
By CHRISTINE JACKSON

A newly organized Davidson College student group, the SGA Leadership Training Committee, is taking the lead in bringing leadership studies to the campus. The organization will sponsor a leadership training symposium Jan. 24-25 in the College Union. It will feature Joseph Jaworski, chairman and founder of the American Leadership Forum in Houston; Eileen Crowley of the American Leadership Forum; and Frank Joseph, associate dean of students at UNCC. Faculty and administration have been invited to attend as well as students.

“Eighty percent of the work done at Davidson is done by ten percent of the people,” symposium coordinator Nancy Rosselot said.

The American Leadership Forum is a new, nonpartisan, non-profit civic enterprise to promote more effective leadership and to develop new models of leadership education. The committee at Davidson hopes both to make student leaders more effective and to attract new leaders. Citing leadership programs at other colleges, including a ten-week course in leadership at UNCC, Rosselot said the Davidson committee is “different in that the students are running it.”

Jaworski and Crowley will present “Thinking About Leadership” at 3:30 p.m. Tuesday in the Morrison Room.

Hotel (Continued from page 1)
said. “We don’t know enough about the proposal, but the town is interested in constructive development,” she said. Clark said several board members support his plans, which will require a change inthe town’s zoning ordinance. Clark feels the inn will bring more customers downtown and will help promote its village atmosphere. Clark said he will not alter the storefronts and plans to build the inn on the property in back of the stores. “I don’t want to erase the businesses there; I want to stimulate them. As the town grows according to its plan, the inn will bring in a buying audience,” Clark said.

According to MacCormac, Clark’s proposal “raises some very interesting questions” concerning alternative sites for a motel in Davidson. The College owns property off Interstate 77 near the Davidson exit and has considered building a lodging facility there. Clark emphasized that his inn would meet needs of the town in addition to lodging. “The inn will be a place of character with a superior restaurant which will draw people from all areas around Davidson. I hope it will capture what is unique about Davidson,” he said.

(Continued from page 1)

As for turnout at meetings, Krentz said that while attendance varies, fifteen to twenty faculty members usually attend each “social.” However, a record number of 45 professors recently heard Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann speak. Krentz, who is currently researching Greek battles, said that along with Zimmermann, who “has been good about supporting the group,” there is “a lot of support from the other members of the department” to which the speaker belongs.

Jaworski will lecture again at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Jaworski will speak at a 12:30 p.m. Open Luncheon in the 900 Room Wednesday and will present a workshop on “Assessing Your Leadership Style and Potential” at 3:30 p.m. in the Big Screen Room. Jaworski and Crowley will lead a concurrent workshop, “Vision — An Element of Leadership,” in the Morrison Room.

“Good leadership is the only real crisis among our many great problems,” Jaworski said. “Until now, there has been no continuing program devoted singularly and explicitly to improving this nation’s leadership.” The committee hopes to follow up this symposium with events such as films and possibly a short course focusing on the improvement of leadership skills.

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants through May 31, 1984. © 1983. Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.

STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND COFFEE $1.28

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at participating Hardee's Restaurants through May 31, 1984. © 1983. Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.

REGULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79