"The wheel," Griffith said. While Yon thinks the committee may contact other schools, study the history of blacks at Davidson, and present specific recommendations to the Trustees in February, Griffith remains somewhat less definite. "We have no hidden agenda," he said, pointing out that the committee’s course of action has not been officially determined. "We need to meet and come to a consensus," Griffith said. Convenient times, structure, and similar concerns are now the focus. Griffith views his role and Jackson’s as one of organizing "a comprehensive unbiased investigation of the presence of minorities at Davidson College." Yon is enthusiastic about the committee, he said, because it will not only be advisory in nature, but it may influence action by the Trustees.

In addition to Griffith, Jackson, and Yon, members to date include Spanish Professor J. Alberto Hernandes-Chiroldes, Psychology Professor John Kelton, SGA President John Laughlin, Associate Dean of Admissions and Students Paula Miller, senior Janet Stovall, Dean of Students Will Terry, senior Atondra Williams, French Professor Lauren Yoder, and Vice-President of Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty T.C. Price Zimmerman. According to Griffith, the president’s plan calls for four students (president of the SGA or another student chosen by him, and a representative each from the R.A.C.E. committee, the BSC, and the SGA), four faculty members (Vice-president of faculty pro tem or his designee, an appointee of Kuykendall’s, and two appointees of the executive committee of the faculty), four administrators (the dean of students or designee, the dean of faculty or designee, and an appointee of the committee of minority relations at Davidson), and three members each from among alumni and the Board of Trustees.

How To Get An Absentee Ballot

If you want to vote in the November election and live too far away from the precinct where you usually vote, here is how to obtain an absentee ballot. You must be 18 to vote. Contact the Board of Elections in the county of your legal residence (the library has phone books from all over the country) and find out the requirements for absentee voting. If you are not registered to vote in the county of your legal residence, many election boards allow registration by mail.

Dean Announces New Policy On Drug Use

First, we are employing a part-time drug counselor. Any student who is reported for use of drugs or who behaves in an anti-social manner as a result of alcohol will be referred to the counselor. After an initial interview, we will try to determine whether this is a one-time occurrence or a habitual thing. If the latter is the case, we will require six to eight sessions with the counselor for which we will charge $10 per session. If an incident occurs again, the student will be evicted from college housing, continued counseling will be required, and parents will be informed. A student who continues to use drugs will be asked to leave school — normally for two terms. If, after returning to college, drug use continues, the student will be suspended indefinitely. "A student involved in selling drugs will be asked to leave the college for an indefinite period at once. In developing this approach to this problem, we have tried initially to be therapeutic rather than punitive because we believe that is in the student’s best interest and conforms to the spirit of the college. We hope we can count on your support in this matter."

The Survey

A total of 421 students were surveyed.

BUFFET —ALL YOU CAN EAT—
Mooresville’s First And Finest Italian Restaurant
KING Of PIZZA
Sunday 12 Noon til 9:00 P.M.
Tues., Wed. & Thurs. 5 P.M. 'til 9 P.M.SOUTH BROAD STREET—MOORESVILLE—663-3030

Meal Includes:
SPAGHETTI
100% durum wheat
OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE
FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD
PARMESAN—ROMANO CHEESE
SALAD BAR
45 Items
FRESH GREEN VEGETABLES
DELICIOUS FRUITS
FLAVORFUL MEATS
RICH DRESSINGS
TASTY CHEESES
WINE
CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE
DESSERT-TEMPTING HAWAIIAN SALAD

ALL FOR

SPECIAL RATES FOR CHILDREN UNDER 12—25¢ PER YEAR

PIZZA
Still Mooresville’s Finest
SPICY PEPPERONI
CANADIAN BACON
ITALIAN SAUSAGE
CHOICE BEEF
FRESHLY DICED GREEN PEPPERS
SWEET ONIONS

SOUP OF THE DAY
CREAM OF POTATO
VEGETABLE BEEF STOCK
CHICKEN NOODLE
CHILI CON CARNE

$8.99 PER PERSON
Lunch Buffet—Mon.-Sat., 11 AM-2:30 PM $2.99

---

veyed, 268 male and 153 female. The survey asked for demographic information, student opinion, and the extent of the respondent's use of alcohol and illegal drugs. The students selected for the poll were chosen randomly from the student body population. The survey’s margin of error is positive or negative 5 percent. The survey’s level of confidence is 95 percent. These two statistics mean that 95 out of 100 sample surveys would reflect the true value of the population, if the entire student body were surveyed. The percentages could vary by positive or negative 5 percent from their stated values.

When asked to describe experience with drugs, student response was as follows: 58.1 percent had not used drugs at Davidson, 15.2 percent had experimented with, but didn’t “use” drugs, 12.1 percent had used drugs rarely, 8.1 percent had used drugs occasionally, 3.1 percent frequently, and 3.6 percent regularly. The drug most often used was marijuana, according to the survey. 92.3 percent of the respondents who said they had used drugs said they used marijuana.

Class members helped write and conduct the poll. Kazee and sociology Professor Janet Grigsby reviewed the questions to ensure they would produce reliable data. It was understood from the beginning that the Public Opinion class had “complete control” of the survey administration and the data, according to Kazee. Terry was given only the “frequency distribution,” or response percentages, which provided him a “picture of attitudes,” Kazee said. “There would have been no way to single out particular groups of students as drug users with this information,” he said. Kazee noted that the class made sure there would be no retribution if a student admitted to drug use. Measures taken to ensure the confidentiality of the responses have been respected by the administration, Kazee said.

Terry said he was “a little relieved” to find out that the extent of the problem was not greater. The poll results did not alter Terry’s perception that there was a growing drug problem on campus, he said. Terry said he sees the drug problem consisting of both drug use by many students and drug abuse by a few students. He felt the problem of drugs on campus must be addressed to help the individuals abusing them. He added that he believes drug use creates an unpleasant atmosphere in the college community. Campus security officers have not been asked to step up efforts against drugs, Terry said. They have been asked to be alert to drug selling, he added. The result of the poll has been that “we are just going to require people who can’t handle things to get help,” said Terry.

Of the students surveyed, 31.6 percent strongly agreed or agreed that drug use was a serious problem. Also, 48.6 percent of the respondents agreed or strongly agreed that the administration should work harder to enforce regulations against drug use. 33.5 percent of the respondents agreed drug use had increased while they have been at Davidson.

Stanley H. Kaplan
The Smart
PREPARATION FOR:
GMAT - GRE