Wednesday, December 12, 1984 / The Davidsonian

New Director Discusses College Athletic Policy

Editors’ note: News Editor David Van Pelt talked with Kit Morris, Davidson’s new Athletic Director. Morris’s comments are edited for clarity.

By DAVID VAN PELT

The Davidsonian: What role do you think athletics should play at a liberal arts institution?

Morris: I think it has a very important role, when we talk about it in a broad sense, not just the intercollegiate program, but athletic endeavors of all types. It is fundamental to the educational mission for the institution. It broadens one’s experience and can help to prepare students for all the stresses and challenges of everyday life. It’s not to be confused with the academic mission of the institution, which is principal, but one of the goals of every liberal arts college is to educate the total person. And athletics is, I feel, a very important part of a liberal education.

The Davidsonian: What should the relationship be between major sports like basketball and football, non-revenue sports like soccer and tennis, and intramural and club sports? How should revenue be allocated to non-revenue and intramural sports?

Morris: I think allocations should be enough to provide a diverse group of offerings. It is certainly my objective to see people of all kinds at athletic endeavors. The allocation is something I’m going to be looking at with that in mind, but I’m not sure what specific dollar amounts in each case are required.

The Davidsonian: How should admissions policy be adjusted to attract top athletes to Davidson?

Morris: I think varsity athletes of this school should be a cross-section of the student body in general. It would be a dangerous situation for members of any varsity sports team to represent a group that is at the very bottom of the academic community. I would expect athletic ability to be taken into consideration in the admissions process, just as I would expect someone who would be an exceptional writer, or musician, or have any gifts or talents of an exceptional nature to be taken into consideration. But to admit people who are incapable of doing the workload, and incapable of absorbing all that Davidson has to offer, would be a mistake.

The Davidsonian: Can a school like Davidson realistically maintain a Division I program?

Morris: I’m not sure I can answer that. I’ve never seen a Davidson contest. In football, this season they played Pennsylvania, our league champion, and proved themselves very well. They played extremely strong, and, for 58 1/2 minutes, controlled the contest. I think it’s a real credit to the institution and the members of the team. But I'd be very wrong about making any strong statements about Davidson’s competitive standing until I have a greater knowledge of the situation.

The Davidsonian: Do you think academic expectations should be adjusted for varsity athletes?

Morris: Absolutely not. I don’t expect professors to come to our coaches and try to coach their teams. And likewise, I don’t think coaches should consult with professors on the construction of their course syllabus, or their method of testing. I think these people will respect each other as professionals.

The Davidsonian: What do you see as your responsibilities as athletic director, and what policy changes do you envision?

Morris: I think my responsibilities will be to provide leadership, to provide structure and organization, and to approach and solve problems in a consistent manner. As far as making any judgments as to the future, at this point I’m not well-acquainted with Davidson’s situation, and I’ve got a lot to learn. When I come in, I’m going to try to clarify for myself what mores are in place right now, and how things work, and as soon as that is examined, those things that need some adjustment will be looked at. I think it’s impossible to predict what kinds of changes, if any, will be taking place in the future. And certainly, I don’t anticipate any changes right away.

The Davidsonian: What was the selection process like?

Morris: To me it seemed fairly rigorous. I sent my application last June, and the process was one which was methodical and thorough. My first visit to campus was in late October, and, in a period of two days, I had 17 meetings and interviews. The second time was in mid-November, when I had a chance to meet with some of the same people and a few different people. One thing that impressed me very much during each visit was the outpouring of goodwill from everybody. I think there is a very strong feeling in the community in support of athletics, and I found this very encouraging. This wealth of warmth and kind spirit was one of the factors which greatly influenced my decision.

The Davidsonian: What did your previous posts at Harvard involve, and how do you think these experiences will help you at Davidson?

Morris: When I was at Harvard I was just out of graduate school, and was working as an assistant to the athletic director. Much of what I did there consisted of project work for the athletic director. I was involved in a pretty diverse group of activities, from serving as lead director for all indoor and outdoor track and field events, to coaching women’s softball, to serving as liaison between the admissions office and the coaching staff. I also served as Secretary on the Faculty Committee on Athletics. So it gave me a pretty good picture of the involvement in the athletic department. When I came to Yale, I was more involved in the structure of the department. The associate director of varsity sports incorporated practically every aspect of our 33-sport program — budgeting, supervision of coaches, scheduling, working with team captains, contest management, sports information, admissions and recruitment — anything at all that had to do with our varsity.sports program basically came through my office. I think in many cases with the things I've learned I'll be able to use a fairly objective approach to my responsibilities at Davidson, and try to implement some operational things that will demonstrate a department-wide consistency in our varsity, intramural, and club sports programs. But I think to come in and say Davidson is going to be like Yale or Harvard is to show a lack of appreciation for the uniqueness of this institution.

Task Force Identifies Problems, Sets Goals (continued from page 1)

minority alumni, and improve interracial understanding and cooperation within the community here. In addition to policy objectives, the report identifies nine areas of concern for minorities on campus:
— the report compares Davidson with other schools like it in terms of the involvement of minorities in the life of the college.
— an assessment of the costs associated with recruiting black students who meet Davidson’s admission standards.
— an outline of the College’s admission standards and how they relate to the academic qualifications of black students here.
— “Davidson’s black students, while capable of undertaking Davidson’s academic program, sometimes lack particular skills which would advance their academic progress,” the report states.
— the social stresses black students experience caused by the composition of and the small number of blacks on campus, the attitudes whites have toward blacks, and the “historic separation of the black and white communities within the Town of Davidson.”
— “There are few black role models on the faculty and professional staffs.”
— exposure of blacks’ racial heritage is limited in the school’s academic program, in cultural events, and in the social system, the report states.
— the number of blacks who leave Davidson without graduating “is inappropriately high.”
— “Black alumni have traditionally not been involved in the affairs of the College.”

The report elaborates extensively on each area of concern and provides statistical comparisons of Davidson to other schools with respect to minority experiences. Additional information is available at the library, including the reports of the task force’s subcommittees, which covered the situation that minorities faced in the past at Davidson, what their current experience is, and what higher education has accomplished as a whole in meeting the needs of blacks and other minorities.

On how Davidson relates to other schools, the report states: “[w]hile statistical comparisons with similar institutions indicate we have attained a level of black representation comparable to the average of the comparison group, the site visits suggest that we are behind in the experience and support we provide for blacks.”

The potential for increasing the disparity between the number of black and white students stands as another of the task force’s concerns. Davidson's 52 black students, the report states, make up 3.78 percent of the student population; 37 are male and 15 are female. “Twenty-eight of the black males have participated in one or more intercollegiate sports and were recruited through efforts of the athletic department,” the report states.

These conditions, according to the report, create strains on blacks’ social experience here. “Black students who attempt to socialize with other races,” the report states, “are sometimes pressured by blacks who fear losing a member of an already small group. The pressure to belong may be limiting because of this group. This problem is often seen by white members of the community as an ambivalence between inclusion in the mainstream of Davidson life and exclusion in the security of predominantly black settings.”

Increasing awareness of blacks at Davidson would involve hiring more black professors and administrators and broadening academic and other programs focusing on the black experience. The report gives attrition rates for black students; from 1966 to 1975 the attrition rate for blacks was 43 percent and dropped to 34.9 from 1976 through 1984. White students had a 20 percent attrition rate during the same period.

Black alumni, the report states, “express regret, anger and frustration over the social strains they experienced while in college,” which include a lack of social life for blacks, white student attitudes, and the small number of black students at Davidson. The report points to several efforts to address black alumni concerns, among them: holding more black alumni reunions (the first was held last spring) and involving black alumni in recruiting black students. The report concludes by identifying specific strategies for achieving the objectives outlined in the nine areas of concern.

New Athletic Director (continued from page 1)

education from the University of Mississippi in 1973. He also holds a master’s degree in education from Harvard. After graduation from the University of Mississippi, he worked for the Fairfax County, Va. public school system as a human relations specialist. He served as a counselor, substitute teacher, and English instructor for homebound students. He later taught at Walker High School in Atlanta, Ga. Besides teaching English literature, composition, and grammar, he coached varsity basketball.

At Davidson, he will administer the college’s 17 intercollegiate teams, 11 club sports, and nine intramural sports. Morris, 33, is married to Donna Pierleoni; they have two children. According to mathematics Professor J. B. Stroud, chairman of the search committee, the committee was looking for “a person of integrity, intelligence, and energy” with Division I experience. Stroud calls Morris “a good man for the job,” and hopes Morris will “like the job as well as we (the committee members) like him.” Stroud feels that an environment like Davidson is the right one for Morris. According to search committee member Beadsie Woo, Morris made a good first impression when he visited Davidson as a candidate. She added that his experience was so impressive for someone his age and showed he had “something extra special.”