8 Friday, November 2, 1984/The Davidsonian

Field Hockey Ends Season

By ANDY BARRON

Davidson ended the 1984 field hockey season with a 2-1 overtime win over Wake Forest Wednesday. The victory ended a year full of 1-0 losses and innumerable injuries on a high note. It also allowed seniors Kara Gilmore, Paige Marsh, and Lou Hamilton to leave the field for the final time as winners.

“It’s the culmination of everything we worked for,” said Hamilton, who unfortunately had a short season due to a knee injury. “This team has improved a great deal over the year.”

Before beating Wake Forest, Davidson played in the Deep South Tournament. Davidson lost to both High Point and Wake Forest 1-0 before beating the Duke Club 1-0.

“This team had to adapt so frequently due to injuries,” said Coach Patty Daley. “No matter how many people were hurt or how bad things looked, the team never let up. When we finally got some people back into form, our tremendous improvement was allowed to show. We improved all aspects of our game. It was a good season.”

Though Davidson’s season is over, three players from the team (as well as Daley) were picked to play for the Deep South team. Gilmore, Jannetta, and sophomore Heather McKee will all compete in the Southeast Tournament in Washington, D.C. This team will play in the national tournament in Long Beach, California.

SANDWICH — From The Concession Stand

Can Steve Get Anything Right?

By STEVE BYERS

So much for my predictions. Georgia Tech hasn’t played a good football game in a month, and the Washington Redskins have lost their last two. I’m not about to venture a guess as to the Southern Conference champion; Western Carolina is the best team, but apparently, that doesn’t mean anything in the league. I’m surprised I didn’t pick the Davidson All-Stars over Wofford in flickerball.

Oh well, at least Doug Flutie still looks solid for the Heisman. Knock on wood.

What happened in the flickerball game Saturday? Wofford was good, but we shouldn’t have allowed 50 points. The Terriers played football (i.e. throwing deep on almost every play), but they got away with it. Their cleats did give them an advantage, but I don’t think we had our best players out there. Davidson should have sent the KA Gold up against them — a team that has played together for a long time makes a big difference.

Or maybe we lost for another reason. Like All-Star center Jim Brueggeman told me later Saturday night, “We just weren’t hungry.” Anyway, I think it only right to acknowledge the performance of senior Clint Farabow, who was one of Davidson’s few bright spots in the game.

It’s also time to recognize and applaud two other Wildcat athletes. The men’s tennis team did surprisingly well in a tournament in Durham two weeks ago. And senior Sedge Gray, playing number one singles, was a big reason. He beat the best players from both North Carolina and Wake Forest. Freshman Bill Young won his division, knocking off his Carolina, Wake Forest, and N.C. State opponents. That is quality competition, folks.

This past weekend, in Davidson’s own Jim Causey Tournament, Gray won the singles title, defeating the tennis pro at Myers Park (Charlotte) in the finals. If Gray can carry this momentum into the regular season, the Wildcats may be more than a spoiler in the conference race.

While I’m handing out congratulations, the soccer team won a big game at Marshall Monday night. The 1-0 victory makes the game against Appalachian State — here, Wednesday afternoon — do or die for the Cats. The winner will face Furman for the conference championship, but there is a catch. Davidson must win by at least two goals to ensure itself a spot in the title game; otherwise, a coin flip will decide who goes. That’s Wednesday afternoon. Be here, aloha.

Other sports goings-on: Rick Sutcliffe and Willie Hernandez, this season’s Cy Young winners, have both filed for free agency, which means the Cubs and the Tigers may be without pitchers next year... Sure, Monday Night Football has had precious few good games this season, but who cares? According to sophomore Jim Kelly, “It is the best comedy show currently on TV” so come laugh with us or at us every Monday night in the 900 Room.

I’ve got a bone to pick with these Friday afternoon street hockey players. This is the South. We don’t play hockey down here — witness the Atlanta Flames. You people are monopolizing the outdoor basketball courts which interrupts Gray House’s big games (usually a combination of rugby, football, and the Keystone Cops). Come on, fellows, while the weather is nice, show some compassion. Isn’t hockey supposed to be a winter sport anyway?

Believe it or not, pro basketball is back. Pro basketball has what you might call a rather lengthy season, from mid-October to mid-June. If you don’t consider yourself a fan of the game, I encourage you to catch a few games on cable sometime in the near future. Arguably, this league boasts the best athletes of all professional sports. You have to work not to appreciate the skills of players like Dr. J, Magic, Michael J, James, Isiah, Ralph, Larry Bird, etc.

QUOTE OF THE WEEK:

“He is the truth, the whole truth, and believe me, nothing but the truth.” — Sidney Green on Chicago Bulls’ teammate Michael Jordan

WITH PURCHASE OF ANY

YOU MUST BRING COUPON FOR FREE BIG GULP

We Save You More Than Time

LAY’S® BRAND POTATO CHIPS 1 OZ. PKG.

7-ELEVEN WELCOMES DAVIDSON STUDENTS

THESE SPECIALS AVAILABLE ONLY AT OUR CORNELIUS STORE ON STATESVILLE ROAD. COME BY AND MEET OUR STORE MANAGER PAT BROWN.

OF VARIETIES CHOICES

THE SOUTHLAND CORPORATION