Friday, April 27, 1984 / The Davidsonian 5

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Ensemble Acting Ignites Scenes And Revelations

By JEFFREY MANN

They tell you in high school journalism classes that the purpose of a drama review is to tell people whether or not a show is worth seeing. Go see *Scenes and Revelations* playing this weekend and next in Hodson Hall. Despite a languid beginning, *Scenes and Revelations* offers a fine ensemble with occasionally stunning individual performances.

Set in 1894, Elan Garonzik’s play examines four sisters who yearn to go West to watch their country grow. They can’t seem to make it though, as various lovers, deaths, and nervous breakdowns get in the way. Director Rupert Barber has striven for and achieved a tight ensemble performance from the four sisters, played by Karen Baldwin, Mary Hill, Stephanie Moffett, and Suzann Smith. Even when energy and interest waned in the first act, the connection between the characters was apparent. It is easier to think of the practical Helena, the dreamily tragic Rebecca, the artistic Millie, and the repressed Charlotte as a unit with four parts than as individuals.

Barber shifts the four in and out of the “current” scene without ever letting them leave stage. When they aren’t “on,” they retreat to the corners of Joe Gardner's washed-out brown angular set. The technique is confusing at first, with scene shifts not always clearly defined, but the deviation from realism becomes easy to accept. Barber constructs many striking tableaus with the women waiting for their scenes. The eerie profiles waiting just offstage never let the audience forget that four women are the focus of this play, not just the ones who happen to be on stage.

This play is built around the female leads, providing a vehicle for actresses which Davidson theatre has needed for a while. The four eventually prove up to the challenge. Opening night started out slowly and threatened to die on the vine at times. A lack of energy led to pedantic gestures and a few unfocused scenes. It came together, though, in the first major scene between Moffett and the boy next door, played by junior John Toler. The intensity built from that point on so that parts of the second act were riveting. The last scene between Toler and Moffett was as good as stage duets get. The spark of intensity which eluded the cast before intermission lit up the second act.

The play itself is not destined to be a classic; several characters remain mere spectres and the plot is weak and meandering. The play deals best with individual scenes and the revelations they provide, appropriately enough. Those looking for a sustained theme or great work of literature will be disappointed; the writing just isn’t there. Those looking for impressive theatrical performances will likely be more than satisfied, however.

Carter’s Paintings And Collages Capture Intensity

By SCOT MYERS

As you walk into the Chambers foyer your eyes are immediately assaulted by the electric colors of Clark Carter's Senior Art Exhibit. Eleven works in all, three of which are massive paintings and the remainder are a combi...of oil crayons and collage on paper. The painting/collage piece entitled Alladin’s Departure measures 4’ x 5’ and represents Carter’s special ability to create multiple layers on a canvas. It juxtaposes several shades of blue with bright fields of color. What makes the painting so intense is not necessarily its colors but the textures created by the paints. Each color field has a pattern and thickness all its own. From a distance, Alladin’s Departure becomes almost three-dimensional as the tonal qualities draw some fields closer to the viewer while others are pulled back by the overlying layers. The images are so unconstrained by the two-dimensional surface that the colors wash around the surface to cover the sides while still more colors actually come off the surface with sculpted paint. Its sister piece, Alladin’s Return, becomes even more fascinating than Alladin’s Departure. Several layers of purples and electric blues create a myriad of textures in the painting. Laid over with string to create still more patterns, the piece also sports vicious slashes and marks. The whole mood of the painting is further heightened by the presence of a pale blue patch of color in the upper right of the canvas. The effect creates the impression of something lying just beyond the painting that can be seen only if you peel away the surface.

In comparison, another piece by Carter is a disappointment when held up against the two Alladin’s. Entitled S73/crankshot off two pipes, the painting is an uncomfortable mix of color and pattern. While the technique in the piece is similar to his other two paintings, the result is not as pleasing. The painting has too definite an image for such a large work. The success of the Alladin’s is the vagueness of the image. S73’s definite lines and symmetry don’t draw the viewer into the painting very well.

Some of Carter's finest work is evidenced by his smaller drawings. The untitled collage to the right of Alladin’s Return has six layers of paper with twice as many levels of color. The blending of foreground and background colors creates a soft rain-like pattern falling from the solid in the upper right corner. Surprisingly, this style, too, is not always successful. To the left of S73 is a similar layered piece. This piece, however, becomes a jumbled blob with little of the warmth or vitality of Carter’s other drawings. Another notable work is found to the lower left of Alladin’s Departure. A red and green wave becomes a wonderful jumble of alternately fading splashes of color when a strip of hot pink pushes its way into the bottom of the picture. While, to the left of this piece, another electric blue nightmare of lines becomes enticing to the viewer as similar jets of pink and orange glide across the paper.

Carter's first show demonstrates a clear ability to manipulate color and texture in pictures. Perhaps a bit too influenced by Professor Herb Jackson's work, Carter shows a style uniquely his own and will undoubtedly grow into a genuine talent.