Friday, February 10, 1984 / The Davidsonian 15

Reagan’s Domestic Policy Woos
Dr. Thomas Kazee

For American voters, 1984 promises to be much more than a symbol of George Orwell’s vision of government gone mad.
When they go to the polls in November to choose between Ronald Reagan and his Democratic opponent, those voters will
directly influence U.S. domestic policy in a number of areas. It therefore seems appropriate, before the evidence is in as
to the choices Americans will make this year, to briefly assess the state of American politics and policy. Given that
most political prognosticators — myself included — think that Reagan will win in 1984, where will we be headed during
the 1985-1989 period?

Perhaps the most important question of the last half-decade concerns the role of government in our lives. Though some would
suggest that most Americans are opposed to “big government,” and are, in fact, moving to the right of the political
spectrum on this fundamental question, the evidence does not support this contention. Americans seem to want big government, but not
too big. If you doubt that premise, suggest significant cuts in the Social Security program to a congressman this election
year. Reagan Administration policies may represent a needed correction to an overemphasis on government in general, but there is little
reason to believe that Americans are not supportive of an activist federal government. As Everett Carll Ladd, director of the
Roper Center for Public Opinion Research, writes:

"Consider, for example, the issue of public spending for social services. People may complain today that taxes are too high,
that bureaucrats intrude too much, that 'the government' wastes money. But ask them what they want to do in each
specific policy sector, and they reply, 'Keep going.'"

The “Reagan Revolution” struck a responsive chord in the hearts of many affluent Americans because it promised to reduce the
size of the federal government without significantly diminishing the often unrecognized subsidies to the middle and upper classes. The programs
which were targeted for the most substantial reductions were largely directed at the disadvantaged. As New York Governor Mario Cuomo
notes in the most recent edition of Public Opinion magazine, “Only some have been given less government... those who need
help.” The “revolution,” of course, promised to reduce the size of government and reduce taxes — but significantly increase spending
in some areas, such as defense. Not only that, but the large budget deficits of the Carter Administration would be
reduced.

The result of what Vice President (then-Republican presidential candidate) George Bush once called “voodoo economics” has been robust approval ratings
in recent public opinion polls. Given that “pocketbook” issues tend to be of great importance in American elections, this seems
to bode well for Mr. Reagan’s chances in November.

If he is reelected, then, should we expect a continuation of tax reductions, cuts in government programs, and, in general,
an increasingly conservative set of policies emanating from Washington? In all possibility, no. As a second-term president without a majority
in the House of Representatives (and perhaps a slimmer majority in the Senate), Ronald Reagan will find it increasingly difficult
to push through his preferred policies. Further tax reductions are simply politically impossible with the deficit at its present level.
In fact, we are likely to see tax increases of various kinds passed by Congress (with the President’s implicit or
explicit support) as a means to reduce the deficit. In short, though Jack Kemp does not concur, both President Reagan
and the Democrats have identified the deficit as the most serious economic problem to be addressed in the near future
(though they understandably disagree about who is to blame for the problem). Specifically, some form of consumption tax, rather than
increases in taxes on income, seems likely.

There are, of course, a variety of other domestic issues which government will address in the latter half of the
1980s. Those which would be the most influenced by the outcome of the 1984 presidential election include the so-called “moral”
issues and...civil rights policy. In civil rights, the Reagan Administration has been notably less active than its predecessors—Republican as well
as Democratic—in enforcing existing civil rights statutes and appointing minorities to government positions. There have been, of course, more encouraging
signs in the economy. Lower inflation rates, reduced unemployment, and relatively stable interest rates have led many observers (read: voters)
to conclude that Reaganomics is working. One of the consequences of "Reaganomics" has been very large government deficits—perhaps more than
$300 billion in the near future, according to a recent Congressional Budget Office projection.

There have been, of course, more encouraging signs in the economy. Lower inflation rates, reduced unemployment, and relatively stable interest
rates have led many observers (read: voters) to conclude that Reaganomics is working. It is this perception which almost certainly
has contributed to President Reagan’s popularity. The administration has also lobbied for weakening the 1965 Voting Rights Act, albeit unsuccessfully,
and Mr. Reagan’s pattern of appointments to the U.S. Civil Rights Commission has been widely criticized as an attempt to
diminish the independence of that panel.

As to the “moral” issues, the Reagan Administration is likely to push for the passage of legislation (or Constitutional amendments)
restricting abortions and striking down prohibitions on prayer in public schools. Those efforts will not be particularly successful, though some
political gain may be realized (at least in terms of the approval of the more conservative elements of President Reagan’s
supporting coalition) by paying lip service to those changes. Republicans and Democrats in Congress do not welcome the “opportunity” to
deal with these politically sensitive issues; they would prefer that the courts continue to set policy in these areas.

It is, in fact, the judiciary to which one might look for evidence of durable policy changes resulting from a
Reagan victory in 1984. Though all appear to be in good health, a number of justices of the Supreme Court
are in their seventies and several have had recent periods of illness. The possibility exists—though it is just a possibility—that
President Reagan could appoint several new justices during the next four years. Given the precedent for judicial activism established by
the Warren Court of the 1960s, the consequences of a Supreme Court with a profound Reagan orientation are apparent. This,
of course, represents speculation of the most extreme sort, since we do not know how many such vacancies will occur
(if any), nor can we predict the behavior of Reagan appointees yet-to-be-named. We do know, in fact, that the Burger
Court, which includes several Nixon appointees, has not dramatically altered the ideological direction of the Court by reversing earlier rulings.

This essay has not touched on the implication of a Reagan success at the polls for American foreign policy; for
a discussion of those critical issues I will defer to my more expert colleagues. However, it is clear that the
outcome of the 1984 presidential election will make an important difference in domestic policy. With a Reagan-Mondale confrontation (or even
a Reagan-Glenn contest), the choice is not, as George Wallace once said, between “Tweedledum and Tweedledee.” It is not as
clear, however, that most Americans recognize the importance of the choice. A September 1983 national survey by Yankelovich, Skelly, and
White asked Americans which political party they thought would be better able to deal with twelve different policy concerns, including
reducing crime, providing a quality education, reducing the risk of nuclear war, controlling inflation, keeping our defense strong, and so
on. In eight of the twelve areas, more Americans chose the response “no difference” than either of the two major
parties; on the remaining four, “no difference” placed second. This is a conclusion with which I cannot agree, for the
choice American voters make in 1984—both in terms of presidential candidates and parties at the congressional level—will make a great
deal of difference in policy in the years ahead.

Kazee is an Assistant Professor of Political Science.
