Friday, April 6, 1984 / The Davidsonian 9

SPORTS

Tennis Coach Jeff Frank watches one of last week’s matches

Scrappy Men’s Tennis Seeks To Survive Slump

KERRY BROWN

During the past few years, the Davidson men’s tennis team has had the problem of overcoming a mid-season struggle against an abundance of top-notch adversaries. Again, this year the Cats have been hit by a mid-season crisis, and they’re still trying to revive themselves and return to their winning ways.

The storm hit the Wildcats when West Virginia blew away Davidson 6-3 in the sixth match of the season. UT-Chattanooga and Furman then added to the Wildcat’s problems by defeating Davidson in the 12th and 13th matches of the season. Now the Cats are 7-6, a record presently not up to par with coach Jeff Frank’s 15-10 record of last year. Still, the Cats have been able to prove they can play with the best in the Southern Conference. Past tennis records show Furman (conference champion) ending its season unspectacularly because of a long regular season. “They’re usually all ‘tennised’ out after about 40 matches,” Frank said. The Cats hope to take advantage of this particular Furman Achilles’ heel.

With this hope in mind, the Wildcats are looking toward improved performances later in the season and an exceptional showing at the Southern Conference tournament. But they still must overcome their current mid-season slump. At the beginning of the season, Frank said he wanted “scrappy tennis” from his top six, and he got a bit of hustle-ball from his big gunners. But it wasn’t enough. The Wildcats should now be 8-5 according to Frank, and, perhaps, with a little more “scrappiness” they could have had that record.

Correction

Last week we incorrectly identified a tennis player in a photo caption. The caption should have identified the player as Eric Arkin.

A disappointing loss came during the opening match against Western Michigan, but since that first game the Cats have given Frank exactly what he wanted — good, solid tennis playing. Frank surely saw what he wanted when the Cats beat Amherst, 9-0. Sedge Gray, who played number one singles for Davidson that match, crushed (with a capital “C”) Spencer Gray, 6-2, 6-2, while freshman Hayes Dallas, playing number two singles, beat Fred Sheppard with his powerful game, 6-2, 6-2. Other strong performances were given by Mark Nottingham, Craig Hall, John Hackett, and Bob Nichols. After the Wildcats made a meal out of Amherst, they came very close to defeating Wake Forest, who managed only a 5-4 victory.

Randy Stroud

Western Carolina Crushes Cats In Three Game Series

By ANDY BARRON

Western Carolina swept Davidson's baseball team in a three-game series last weekend at Davidson. Errors, inconsistent play, and the Catamounts’ solid performance combined to defeat the Wildcats. Saying Western swept Davidson is an understatement. Pounded is more accurate. Western outscored Davidson 42-13 over the three games. The pitching staff's earned run average ballooned about half a point to 5.53 during the series.

“We were never consistent,” said Coach George Greer. “That inconsistency wasn’t just game to game either. It was inning to inning and out to out as well.”

Davidson started the series poorly when Western scored eight unearned runs in the first inning. After the shock of that inning wore off, Davidson played even with Western for several innings. A late game surge by the Catamounts pushed the final score to 16-2.

The second game was the only one that was even close. After fighting hard, Davidson lost 7-4. Senior Scott Redding once again failed in his bid to pick up his first win of the season. “If Scott continues to pitch like he has been, he'll start winning some games,” said Greer.

Western drubbed the Cats 19-7 in the series finale. Sophomore Scott Weaver did an about-face from his shutout of Furman a week earlier by allowing 17 runs, 14 earned, in taking the loss. The series definitely hurt the Cats in the conference. Davidson now trails the division-leading Catamounts by —six games. Many of the Cats’ errors can be attributed to Davidson's inability to practice because of bad weather. However, Greer expected a better performance in the Cats’ crucial upcoming series against the Citadel. “It's tough to get excited about losing three games,” said Greer. “However, I'm still optimistic about the rest of the season. Our young players have played well. I’m also very pleased with the leadership provided by seniors Jeff McSwain, Scott Redding, and Mick Smith. If we play as well as we are capable of playing, we should do well the rest of the season.”

Women’s Tennis Makes Conference Unrefusable Offer

4 victory over Davidson. Frank was pleased with the team’s performance against the Deacons: “It’s something we haven't done in a while.”

In the match against Wake Forest, Craig Hall destroyed Marco Lucioni, 6-2, 6-2, to aid the Wildcats, and John Hackett defeated John Vinson, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2, to give Davidson a victory in the number five singles spot. Bob Nichols also contributed points by pounding Lance Lanwater, 3-6, 6-0, 6-2, in number six singles. “Scrappy” performances on the court like these are what Frank wanted in the beginning of the season, and the Wildcats are doing everything they can to achieve victories for the coach, themselves, and the school. Since the Wake Forest defeat, the Cats have managed a 4-2 record, losing only to Southern Conference powerhouses Furman and UT-Chattanooga. If they can get through the mid-season crisis unscathed, they will be looking at another good season.

By KERRY BROWN

What has the 1984 tennis season been for the women’s tennis team? It’s been all business. The Lady Wildcats have become a dominating force in women’s tennis, and they’re beginning to show signs that their newest role in the tennis circles is one that is similar to a mobster’s in the drug world. In short, the Lady Cats have become kingpins in their own devious and skillful way. The Wildcats are now 8-3 and are searching for more prey. Their most recent victim was East Carolina. The Lady Cats defeated the Lady Pirates 6-3 and showed them where the new muscle lies in local, and perhaps regional Women’s NCAA Division III tennis.

However, the Davidson Women’s Tennis Program is definitely looking for something more. Something like a respectable showing in the Division III National Championships. Recently, the Cats were ranked nationally, and are surely in the position to become the Dark Horse in the race for the Division III championship. As things stand now, however, the Cats might be in for an uphill struggle for the remainder of the season. Though the team did defeat respectable adversaries such as UNCC 5-4, High Point 5-4, and Kalamazoo 7-2, they now must face the likes of Appalachian, Wake Forest, Emory, and UNC-Greensboro. Yet, with seniors Sue Hamilton, Adelyn Lutz, and Eleanor Knobloch leading the team with their senior leadership and talent, the season has been an exceptional one.

The squad made Gardner-Webb pay its dues the hard way. The Wildcats crushed the mediocre Gardner-Webb team by a score of 8-1. Then the Cats went on to beat four more opponents: Radford, 8-1; Skidmore, 9-0; Sweet Briar, 9-0; and Kalamazoo, 7-2. Though the Wildcats are indeed a power to be reckoned with, they are not yet up to the standards of national competition. This was evident when the Lady Wildcats boldly challenged Rice in the opening match of the season, and Rice effectively showed the Wildcats what national caliber tennis was by using an overall stronger, quicker game. William and Mary also beat Davidson, 9-0. It looks like the Lady Wildcats don’t seem to be ready for any sort of national competition, but the Cats aren't in the strongest division in the NCAA and perhaps they will be able to compete better in Division III. Presently, the tennis program is out to make a name for itself, and looking for collegiate victories. Until post season, it’s business as usual as long as the Women’s Tennis team keeps winning.