Friday, March 23, 1984 / The Davidsonian 3

SGA Weekend: Terry & Griffith Ask Postponement Of Hattie’s Night

By DAN CILLY

Wide-eyed with wonder, 90 high school seniors are discovering firsthand exactly what “the Davidson experience” really is. Begun yesterday afternoon,
the annual SGA Weekend is trying to expose these prospectives to the best aspects of the College’s social and academic
life. After checking in, the visitors will attend two days of non-stop activities featuring talks, dinners, tours, movies, dances, discos,
classes, and even a few precious hours of free time. They will leave tomorrow afternoon.

Students, under the direction of SGA Weekend Chairman Ester Kim, plan and execute the entire operation. The prospectives are staying
with freshmen to promote comradeship and encourage exploration of candid student opinion about Davidson. While the format of the program
has changed slightly since last year, the purpose has not. It remains a major way, in Kim’s words, “to attract
the most gifted prospectives to Davidson.”

Counsellor Alex McCallie, prior to last year’s event, said “they are the most qualified candidates from all over the country.
And ultimately, it is the behavior of the students that will decide them [the prospects].”

This concern over student behavior came into conflict with Davidson’s annual Hattie’s Night party held traditionally on the second Thursday
of Spring term. Dean of Students Will Terry, Dean of Admission John Griffith, and Admissions Counsellor Wendy Smith met Monday
with Fannie and Mable social chairman David Resnik and requested that the party be postponed. They gave two reasons for
the request. First, they felt that Hattie’s Night would draw students away who would normally attend the disco scheduled on
Thursday night, thus depriving the prospects a chance to mix with students. They could attend the party but not drink.
Second, the administration felt that Hattie’s Night was an unusual event. “It is not the kind of impression that Davidson
should present. It is sort of inappropriate,” Terry said. He said that Hattie’s Night traditionally had been just a time
for drinking beer and was not representative of the usual type of parties at Davidson.

Resnik refused to postpone because preparations were too far along. The administration’s desire for moderation was fulfilled because F &
M did hire a band to play and will seriously enforce the drinking age. They checked I.D.’s at the door
last night, stamped hands, posted signs, and hired a campus policeman. Many saw this as an attempt to clamp down
on student freedom and whitewash campus social activities. Resnik said “it was probably done in good faith, but some might
interpret it as paternalistic. We chose that night because it was the best time for it and tradition demanded it.”
He also felt much of the wildness of the event was removed when a student was shot at Hattie’s Night
three years ago. Now it is just “a good, big party,” said Resnik.

New Faculty Evaluations Have Limited Value

By TED WILSON

The new faculty evaluation form, used for the first time last term, has received mixed reactions. The new format was
designed by the Professional Affairs Committee, headed by religion professor Alexander McKelway. McKelway said, though he has not heard from
much of the faculty, “several professors who I’ve talked with thought the new form was useful.” He said “they liked
the supplementary nature of the form,” which requires students to give a written answer to the questions, not just a
numerical one. The old ICES form “was a scaled report and there were technical problems with it,” he added.

French professor Lauren Yoder said that the ICES and the PAC forms “are equally beneficial. There was always some opportunity
to write short essays on the ICES evaluation sheet.” He added that Vice-President for Academic Affairs and Dean of the
Faculty T.C. Price Zimmerman “will have to assign some numerical values anyway, consciously or subconsciously,” when making his decisions about
tenure and job promotions. Yoder finds the numerical system of the ICES format beneficial in comparing classes by year.

Math professor J. B. Stroud expressed the sentiment of many faculty members who had asked for a prose format. Stroud
said, “I have no problems with the new form.” He did, however, find merit inthe old one. “Professors could choose
23 of their own questions in addition to the three global questions which dealt with the content, instructor, and course
overall.” Students could write on the back more extensively about possible course improvements. The short questions were strictly quantitative. Stroud
said, “some professors thought the administration used the numbers excessively. Many complained that the students weren’t required to sign the
old forms at all.” Junior Rob McCormick found value in the essay form “if students take time on, and give
thought to, the essays. I’ve found that most people are pretty willing to do so.” Freshman Priscilla Faucette said the
new format is better than the one designed by the SGA last fall, which included questions from the ICES. “It
gives more freedom to clarify one’s opinion of the professor,” she said. Yoder said, “the grades are already in when
we get the forms,” ensuring that students’ grades aren’t affected by their remarks. However, one professor said, “I don’t want
to know who said the specific comments.” Professors were required to devote at least 30 minutes of class time to
the form. While one professor said that half of a class period can be crucial at that part of the
term, many felt that the forms would not be returned if they were done at students’ leisure. Zimmerman, who was
unavailable for comment, has the job of reviewing the students’ comments. The new system, however, does not require that every
professor be evaluated by Zimmerman each term.

Students’ Efforts Help Save Program
By DAVID VAN PELT

Davidson’s Gethsemane tutoring program is back in operation, thanks to a grant by the United Community Services organization. The program,
in which Davidson students and public school teachers help local elementary school children with schoolwork and other activities three times
a week, discontinued after the first term because of insufficient funds. The program costs an estimated $18,000 a year. Expenses
include salary for the two teachers and two aides attending each session, refreshments, and the cost of occasional field trips
and cultural activities. A Christmas Gift Fund raised a portion of the $10,000 needed to complete the year, but most
of the sum was included in the grant from the United Community Services organization. The tutoring program resumed in late
January, after the donation was arranged.

One problem with the Gethsemane program in this area, according to Peggy Brown of the Davidson Community Center, is that
it receives no funding from the original Gethsemane program in Charlotte. According to Brown, the Charlotte organization started several years
ago by a minister (Gethsemane was the garden where Jesus spent his last hours before crucifixion), is directed towards six
target areas in Charlotte. The Charlotte Community Development Funds sponsors those areas, but offers no financial assistance to tutoring programs
outside Charlotte. The Charlotte Gethsemane organization, however, does assist the Davidson program in bookkeeping, hiring, and other administrative duties.

Davidson College volunteer tutors are headed by sophomores Ellen Oerter and Steve Hughes. They estimate that fifteen Davidson students regularly
attend one of the weekly Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday sessions. Participants note both the program’s attributes and difficulties. “Sometimes you
feel like you’re there as a babysitter,” Ruth Clark said. What she finds most rewarding, however, is “you can tell
they really love to have you there.” The program instructs children from grades three through six. Children become eligible for
tutoring with scores in the bottom 30% of the standardized CAT tests. Tutors are not assigned to specific students, but
many tutors find it most effective when they become acquainted with particular students. “The ones that I know better are
more responsive. It's harder [for the children] to be responsive if they don’t know us,” Ellen Oerter said.

The Gethsemane program sponsors activities and field trips as an accompaniment to classroom study. Tutors took the students to the
circus and the Christmas Heritage Village earlier this year. Children receive free swimming lessons at the Davidson gym the first
three weeks of this term. According to sophomore Chad Magnuson, such activities “offer an opportunity for us to see the
kids outside tutoring, and for them to see us in a little different light.” Magnuson sees the Gethsemane program as
a valuable experience for Davidson students.
