THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXIII, Number 20
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, March 30, 1984

Laughlin Edges Gould In Presidential Race
Woo Defeats Gaither For V.P.
By BOYD BLACKBURN

In Tuesday’s SGA elections, John Laughlin narrowly defeated Warren Gould for president and Beadsie Woo won over Jay Gaither for
vice-president. The SGA did not make the vote tally public. Normally, the tally is not publicly disclosed unless a candidate
requests it. No such request was made. However, turnout was surprisingly strong, with approximately 200 more students voting than last
year.

Laughlin was enthusiastic about the coming year and the role of SGA. “I’m really excited because we know it'll be
an important year. We hope that the students will see their role in affairs on campus as more important than
ever before.” He cited several reasons why he believes next year to be an important one. He thinks the SGA
can and will play an important role in smoothing out the transition between presidents. He said the SGA’s Presidential Advisory
Paper “should give [President John W.] Kuykendall a good foundation on what student opinions on most issues are.”

Laughlin hopes that since Kuykendall was himself president of SGA when he attended Davidson, he would take the SGA seriously
and use it as a viable representative of the student body. During their campaigns, both Laughlin and Woo concluded that
athletics and race relations were two issues that needed attention. “It seems that the student body would like to see
more funds going to the minor sports,” Laughlin said. He also felt the need for a stronger football program and
said the SGA would be looking into ways of raising the necessary funds.

Woo voiced concern about the issue of race relations at Davidson. “I honestly see a problem here. I think the
SGA and the B.S.C. need to work with the R.A.C.E. committee to find out what the problems are and specifically
what the solutions might be.”

By DAN VOORHIS

Hundreds of peace activists, including three students from Davidson, descended on the United States Congress on Tuesday, March 20th, for
a National Day of Advocacy sponsored by a large coalition of peace groups. Senior Carl Rist and juniors Kerry Holbrook
and Stuart King participated, lobbying congressmen to reconsider their votes on U.S. military policies in Central America.

The three students, accompanied by delegates from Florida, South Carolina, and North Carolina, first tried to see U.S. Senator Jesse
Helms (R-NC). Helms refused an interview. The students then talked to three congressmen from Florida in an attempt to change
the congressmen’s positions on military funding to the governments of El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala, and the contra guerrillas of Nicaragua.

Rist, Holbrook, and King presented an alternative to current policies which included pulling out U.S. troops and aid from the
region, negotiating a settlement in El Salvador, and safeguarding any resulting provisional government. They also expressed concern for the refugee
problem that has resulted from the unrest. Many refugees have become immigrants to the U.S.

Holbrook felt the congressmen responded sincerely to the group’s questions and proposals. She also thought...Students Join Central America Protest -
Randy Stroud

Stuart King and Kerry Holbrook expressed that the group’s concern might have caused one of the representatives to change his
stance. “Every time you let a person in Congress know your position, it’s a success,” said Holbrook. “It’s important that
the Congress know that people out there are concerned about this issue.” She added that this is often the only
way members of Congress know how their constituents feel.

King estimated that 1,000 people attended a rally held before noon that day. Holbrook said the crowd was from all
walks of life, “from a 2-year-old kid to a 60-year-old lady. Generally, it was middle class.” But she added that
she felt their group was looked on with contempt by some of the congressmen and a number of the congressional
aides they encountered.

(continued on page 4)

John Laughlin

Laughlin added, “the recruiting of minorities for faculty and administration positions as well as students is needed.” He is concerned
with the high attrition rate of black students at Davidson, especially in the freshman class.

Beadsie Woo

Both are interested in maintaining a strong Patterson Court and feel the troubles of the past few years have leveled
off. Woo mentioned the possibility of (continued on page 4)

Town Zoning Rules Forbid WDAV Move

By RAND HARTSELL

WDAV-FM, the College’s Classical radio station, will have to reconsider its plan to move out of the Student Union because
of the Town’s Zoning rules. WDAV remains plagued with problems of inadequate space and, in station manager John Clark’s estimation,
a location not conducive to good production. Recent efforts to relocate the station to Shelton House failed when WDAV learned
that the site was not zoned for any use other than a single-family dwelling unit. The College purchased the house
after the owner died last year.

Clark said Shelton House looked like the most appropriate place for relocation. “Students had been living there, but the college
was willing to offer it to us. So now we’re back to square one,” Clark said.

Space and Atmosphere Problems

“The two problems with our present facility [space and atmosphere] could most ideally be solved by constructing a new structure,”
said Clark. “We presently have four full-time staff members and 30 part-time student employees. Anyone who has gone to the
student center has seen us ‘bleeding’ into the hall. We often have to work literally elbow to elbow,” Clark said.

The other problem of atmosphere, Clark said, is not as easy to ascertain as the space problem. Nevertheless, he said,
it noticeably affects the staff's morale. “The noise created within the Union interferes with our production, not to mention the
water pipes from the janitor’s closet directly above the production booth.” A cartoon in the Charlotte Observer alluded to WDAV’s
problem by portraying a commode with music emanating from it.

Competition for Space

Jack Powers, Vice President for Development, said that the administration is well aware of WDAV’s problems. “We are looking into
the needs for a change of facilities. WDAV is a topic of serious consideration.” Powers said, however, (continued on page
4)
