THE DAVIDSONIAN
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, May 11, 1984
Volume LXXIII, Number 24

Women’s Tennis Takes National Championship
By PATRICIA HAHN

Yes, there really is a Kalamazoo, and yes, the Davidson Women’s Tennis Team really is the Division III National Champion.
The lady racketeers earned 15 points in the team competition this past Tuesday to take the national title. It was
their first appearance ever in a national tournament.

The tournament was truly tension-packed; Davidson and Occidental College were tied after Monday's competition. The final outcome read, Davidson 15
points, University of California at San Diego 14 points, and Occidental College 13 points.

Davidson was carried by the victories of Adelyn Lutz at number 3, Lolly Johnson at number 4, and rookie Debbie
Podolin at number 6 in the finals. Also, winning their flight at number 2 doubles were Tricia Ives and Johnson.
Unknown to them as they exited their court, this doubles match was the clincher for the national trophy.

While some of the players have already returned, number 1 Caroline Barclay and number 2 Eleanor Knobloch will remain in
Michigan to compete in the individual singles and doubles tournaments.

Coach Caroline Brown — in her second year as the Wildcat’s coach — was last seen on cloud nine ecstatic
with the win and with the fact that all members of the team contributed points to the scoreboard.

Caroline Barclay and Eleanor Knobloch (Continued on page 4)

Dr. Helen Caldicott visits with students at a reception after her speech Monday night. See story on page 4.

Trustees Okay New Dorm, Discuss Race Problems
By DAVID VAN PELT

The Board of Trustees last Friday approved construction of a new dormitory to be located next to Knox and Irwin
dorms in order to alleviate housing shortage problems on campus. No date was set for construction to begin.

According to Director of the Physical Plant Grover Meetze, the basic plan of the new dorm will be similar to
Irwin and Knox dorms, but changes will be made according to how residents of those dorms feel about the facilities.
“We want to talk to students to find out what features they like and don’t like about them [Irwin and
Knox],” Meetze said.

He mentioned storage as one aspect of Knox and Irwin which will be improved in the new dorm. “We'll improve
areas we’ve had problems with,” Meetze said. “I understood those are satisfactory dorms.”

Funding for the new dorm has not been finalized. Meetze would not estimate how much it will cost, but said
due to inflation it will cost more than Knox and Irwin, which cost $500,000 each when built in the 1980-81
school year.

Meetze said it is “too early at this juncture” to estimate when the new dorm will be built. Student opinion
on Irwin and Knox has to be gathered, he said, cost estimates have to be made, and an exact location
next to Irwin and Knox has to be established. “The general feeling at the meeting was that we would look
into the dormitory situation as quickly as possible,” Meetze said.

Project ’87 Discussed

The Trustee Student Life Committee considered the racial situation on campus during its Thursday meeting, and it was

Campaigner
By DAVID VAN PELT

A representative of North Carolina Senator Jesse Helm’s campaign who distributed pamphlets in Chambers last Wednesday met an unpleasant welcome
from Davidson students and faculty, and left campus after a group of students requestedthat he move to the Union. “He
said of all the campuses he has visited in the state of North Carolina this year, this was by far
the rudest acceptance he has gotten from students, faculty, and administration,” said junior Tony Holt, President of the Young Republicans
on campus. Helms supporter Allan Williams was at Davidson from 10 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. distributing campaign literature and canvassing
for Helms, but according to Holt, most discussion between Williams and Davidson students was invective. “Conversation oftentimes backed up and
became mudslinging,” Holt said. “One College official said she couldn’t believe that an educated college student would accept Jesse Helms,”
said junior Walker Douglas, a member of the Young Republicans who sat with Williams for an hour. Associate Dean of
Students Sue Ross at one point told Williams that he had to have a student with him at the table.
Dean of Students Will Terry said that he objected to the Helms representative because he set up a booth in
Chambers without a student present. Terry said that only campus organizations were ordinarily allowed to set up a display in
Chambers. Soon after Williams set up a table in Chambers, Terry called Holt, who said that he had already planned
to join the representative. Holt stayed with Williams for about two hours. Douglas replaced Holt for an hour. According to
Holt, the Helms representative called him in advance to request assistance in distributing pamphlets at Davidson. “This wasn't a plan
to compete with Helen Caldicott. It was arranged before that,” Holt said. “The fellow contacted us. We said we would
help him.” Junior Melissa Alves, one of several students who requested that Williams leave Chambers, said she tried to discuss
political issues with him earlier. “He ignored me. He wouldn't talk. That upset me a lot.” Alves said after discussing
the issue with several classmates, a group of students approached Williams and asked him to leave.

brought before the full Board meeting Friday. “I brought it (the race situation here) to the attention of the Student
Life Committee, and the discussion came in the context of their report,” said Dean of Students Will Terry. One subject
mentioned was Project 87, a group of requests made by the Black Student Coalition to increase the number of black
students and professors at Davidson, establish a black Dean of Students, and offer a black studies program. Referring to the
racial concerns here, Hunter Monroe, who attended the full Board meeting, said, “They talked about it more than anything else
in the open session.” According to SGA President John Laughlin, “Everybody seemed to realize that the situation here needs to
be improved. What I could get out of the meeting was that we would begin to address this issue with
the new president.” President of the Board of Trustees Fred Stair has made arrangements to meet with representatives of the
Black Alumni Association to discuss the matter further. According to Monroe, “one trustee said that these aren't the kind of
problems which can be solved with a lick and a promise.”

Faculty Promotions and Tenure

During an Executive Board meeting on Friday, the Trustees approved faculty promotions for next year. Promoted to Professor were Associate
Professors Rupert T. Barber (Theater and Speech), Dirk French (Classical Studies), Jerry A. Roberts (Mathematics), and A. Allen Wolf (Physics).
Promoted to Associate Professor were Assistant Professors Verna M. Case (Biology), Joseph T. (continued on page 4)
