10 Friday, March 30, 1984 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, David Resnik, Associate Editors
Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Randy Stroud, Photography Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager
Ross Holt, Editor

Honor

Next Tuesday, Davidson students will elect new members to the Honor Council — a group which, because it is elected,
should represent the student body. However, it does not. Honor Council members are not publicly accountable for their actions, nor
are they accessible to students. How, then, can students judge whether or not Honor Council members are fulfilling the duties
the students have elected them to fulfill? Because the Honor Council does not make its proceedings public, students cannot make
this judgment.

But even if students knew whether or not Honor Council members were serving them properly, any opinion of an Honor
Council member’s integrity would have no meaning. Honor Council members do not face re-election or any other public check. Clearly,
the element of student access to Honor Council members is blatantly missing. The principle of election, however, mandates this access
and accountability.

Even student access to Honor Council candidates is restricted. Election procedures do not allow candidates to campaign actively; they supposedly
run solely on their own integrity. But this perception falsely assumes that all students know all candidates equally well. These
elections are supposed to choose the candidates with the most integrity. Since no one can campaign, how do students know
anything about a candidate’s integrity? Do those elected really have the most integrity, or are they merely more popular? Are
the three candidates chosen from each class any more honorable than those who lose?

Students have access to other candidates and elected officers on campus. Officers such as SGA president are accountable. In addition,
students may criticize, comment, and participate directly or indirectly in the organizations for which they elect officers to represent them.
If Honor Council members are to be elected, then they should be held more accountable to those who elect them.
Since they are not presently publicly accountable, then the elections are meaningless. In that case, why vote?

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available
on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: David van Pelt, Boyd Blackburn, Assistant News Editors; Roxanna Guilford, Rand Hartsell, Bob Loper, Frances Palmer, John Ruppenthal,
Tom Schilling, Elizabeth White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Miguel Abreu, Brian Butler, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris

Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Kerry Brown, Hunter Gourley, Scott Huie

Photography Staff: Carroll Overton, Assistant Photography Editor, Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael Dent, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Rocky Kmiecik, Laura McGee, Anderson
Scott, Mike Snell, Bruce von Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Kevin Horan

Compositors: Lou Hamilton, Anne Lambert, Rob Pool, Debby Williams

Copy Editing: Christine Jackson

Circulation: David McCurry, Manager

Letters

Display of Cowardice

To the Editors:

It is clear to us that the recent surreptitious distribution of the “Preventing Nuclear War” pamphlets was nothing more than
a superb display of cowardice on the part of their conservative-minded distributors. The flyers were shoved quietly under the doors
of their victims by an anonymous person or group of people late one night last week. It is difficult not
to wonder who this group was and, more interestingly,why they failed to identify themselves. The answers to these questions are
given by the literature itself; these people were embarrassed and afraid to claim responsibility. We sympathize and understand the trepidation
this group must feel at the thought of defending the ideology they present. We have no “continuous dialogue with the
Soviet leaders.” Nuclear proliferation is not “inexpensive,” and the Soviet Union is not twice as strong as the United States.
Furthermore, the fact that we have not yet annihilated ourselves does not prove that detente works. Look where detente has
left us: on the brink of terminating humanity. But our intention is not to point out that the flyers contain
perverse logic and laughable assertions. Our feeling is that progress in solving any issue can exist only through positive discussion
of ideas between identified, self-respecting, and open-minded groups, not through the stealthy skulking of flyer-pushers in dark hallways.

Will Cardwell
Clay Flinn
Sayres Rudy

Bulletin Board

To the Editors:

In the past two months the Y Student Service Corps has attempted to make the campus more aware of its
purpose and of the various programs which the Y sponsors. This has included the Y bulletin board located by the
development offices in Chambers. We are distressed by the lack of respect certain students have displayed recently towards the bulletin
board. Twice students have vandalized it by tearing posters off the walls and in half, most recently Saturday, March 24,
only one day after a new board had been put up. These actions are not befitting a student body which
respects the honor code and code of responsibility as an integral part of the educational process. In the future we
would appreciate the campus’s respect of our work. Please do not tear down our bulletin board.

Beth Maczka
Chris Blake
Laeta Kalogridis
Anne Lambert
Laura McGee
Y-Corps officers

3-Quarter Time

To the Editors:

We really enjoyed your annual swimsuit issue. However, something made us whine. What is the point of “3 Quarter Time”?
Is it supposed to be pure humor, a satiric look at the world, or a popular serial followed by millions?
What is the point of a comic strip? It is to make one laugh or think, preferably both. “3 Quarter
Time” does neither, dammit. It is not even relevant. What we are protesting is not the concept of a comic
strip in The Davidsonian, but the fact that “3 Quarter Time” does little more than take up space. Please coerce
Mr. Lowrey to spend more than 10 minutes on his egocentrically self-indulgent exercise in doodling. If we do not see
improvement in two weeks, we will have a spazz.

Bryan Feigenbaum
Ted Singdahlsen
Doug Robelen

Negotiation

To the Editors:

In responding to Jeb Benedict’s article in last week’s Davidsonian, “No Rules Apply in World Politics,” I would like to
acknowledge that it has been my pleasure to advance the debate with him within the classroom and without over the
last several years. I would just like to add one comment. Profit and power; success and security, are important, but
they are not the sole objective of U.S. national interests or national policy. Compassion, opportunity, equity, and respect for human
dignity have a place in the American tradition as well. When this mixed American ethos is projected into the international
field, knowledge and understanding of the other party’s point of view becomes as essential to agreement and cooperation and management
of international affairs as is the assertion of power. One final comment: In the area of nuclear arms build-up, if
negotiation is not viable as a course of policy, what does work? More nuclear arms? I wouldn’t want to see
the “proof” to this last proposition.

Louis L. Ortmayer
Director, Center for Special Studies
