Friday, April 27, 1984 / The Davidsonian 11

Does Davidson Really Desire Minority Students?
Anne Elliott

I will dismiss the letter to the editor “BSC” written by Paul Weiss and David Gaston as idiocy. Eric Hill’s
article “Project '87: Emotional Outcry Hard to Implement” hurt me deeply. It literally brought me to tears. White people will
inevitably become moral on you when it is in their best interest. Eric, do you cry out against sexism in
the admissions policy at Davidson? It always amazes me when white people call affirmative action racism. It is not. Racism
is inequity, blatant discrimination that hurts a group of people as a race and hinders them from progress in employment,
housing, education. How will the admission of 100 black students and 10 black professors hurt white people as a race?
It might hurt individuals (and that’s a big might), but it can’t touch your race. Black people have been hurting
individually and as a race for centuries, a plain fact, and now it’s simply “catch up time.”

An analogy: Given in America in 1680: A track, with 2 people racing against each other, one black, one white.
The first one to reach the finish line wins admission to Davidson College. He then runs on hard and fast
to win the prize. Along comes another white fellow who has also beaten and cheated his black opponent. He reaches
the finish line even before the first black man. Does the referee tell the black man he can go in
now because he’s been held back and unfairly treated? No. And the cycle continues for years. A kid is born
in 1962, he does not see the chains of 1680, 1779, and 1960. He sees only a white man with
higher SAT scores. Now, Eric, which one is racism: to allow the black admissions or to continue admitting the white
runners? Do you cry out against this racism on your black brothers and sisters? No. You can’t feel it. It
is not in your best interest and you don’t know about it because nobody told you. My point, you cannot
dismiss the causes and white people always want to. You cannot conveniently forget the past, get out your morality card,
and start yelling racism all over the place.

It would be nice to live in a world you describe. It assumes a society of equality. But your ancestors,
your parents, killed equality and buried it centuries ago. To use idealistic norms on a realistically cruel and prejudiced society
is unfair and absolutely ludicrous. You assert that letting lesser qualified blacks in will undermine the quality of Davidson. How
do you determine lesser qualified blacks? By SAT scores? I scored a 1050 on your SAT test and would not
have been admitted to Davidson without affirmative action. This is the case for the majority of blacks already here and
we are not ashamed of it, because we know who caused our disadvantage and we know who made the test.
It is what you do when you get in here that matters. I and my brothers and sisters have held
our own, and our contribution to conservative, white, Davidson is unmatched. Would it be best for your liberal arts Davidson
education if no blacks were here? Yes?

Besides all this, there are thousands of black students out there whose SAT scores are 1300 and above and who
would excel at Davidson, but somehow find the place terribly unattractive. Now why is that? We do not propose to
jeopardize white faculty members' jobs. You and we need to see black people in areas other than maids and janitors.
We hunger for people who really care about us and already understand the problems without our having to sit down
and instruct them in an essay. I cannot explain the void Paula Miller, James Wooten, and Caesar Blake fill. And
I wouldn’t attempt to, you would only cheapen it. And if you think, Eric, for one second that Deans Terry,
Ross, and other white faculty/administrators can fully understand, console, and advise black students in their peculiar problems at Davidson College,
and more importantly, that they desire this? Davidson’s attrition rate is atrocious. Seven black students escaped this year alone. Who
cares, right? Where is the proof that Davidson can handle the problems of black students — black people period —
for that matter. Why are we still complaining? So we tell you why we hurt and you choose to dismiss
our explanation as the emotional jabberings of a spoiled twelve-year-old... Damn. We expect it of you though. Men use it
on women all the time, labeling them as emotional hens in order to undermine the significance, the truth of their
argument.

Your history courses don’t have to be called “white history” Eric. United States history in your history books is white
history. What is a historian in America but a biased storyteller? Where are the Indians? Oh, here they are, recorded
as savages. Why are their triumphs called massacres and your murders called victories? Where are the Mexican Americans? And in
white history, the people that physically built this country, the black race is miraculously condensed into one man: Martin Luther
King, Jr. You tell lies in your history books, your culture. Now I ask you the same question, “Is the
white experience worthy of being taught simply because it was experienced by whites?” Worthy by whose terms? Hell yes, our
experience is worthy. We are not tainted with the blood of blacks, Indians, Mexicans, Vietnamese, and any other minority with
whom white people come into contact. Real and true United States history, with your morality (if you choose to use
it, of course) makes a mockery of.

So answer me this, Davidson. Why do you recruit black students? To see how many you can destroy, make go
away? You say you want black students and everything you do screams the opposite.your most famous white heroes. And if
you are not aware of “white courses” then you are extremely naive, blind, and ignorant. It’s your fault and Davidson
sustains your ignorance. Now bring your statement, Eric, to its logical conclusion. If black people don’t like it here at
Davidson, then “Why did you come here, black girl? Why are you still here? And why the hell don’t you
leave... fool?” Davidson asks its black students that question every day and we do leave. There is no social life.
46 other black people. 30 black men. And you know, my white girlfriends, you have trouble finding a suitable partner
among 900 men. There are no permanent black role models. I can count the number of times I’ve been asked
to dance at a fraternity party, asked on a date, had a conversation initiated by a white person. Have you
ever talked to a black girl on campus, Eric, for more than an hour? You ostracize us and conveniently say
we ostracize ourselves. If I put you and 20 other white people on an island with 1500 black people, boy
you'd cry out for a damned house and I bet you'd eat together too. And the following is one worn-out
line that white people use that I want to clear up forever — the one about the BSC discouraging blacks
from joining fraternities. Why the hell do you think black men want to join your fraternities? White people have this
insane idea that black people want to be like you, with you. We do not. If you think we do,
then you are sadly mistaken. Where is the proof of that? Everything you have ever done to black people has
been dirty, unjust, inhumane, and disgusting. Why on earth would you suppose that we want to be with you, admire
you? Ask yourself this question: “If someone steps on me and calls me dirt, would I want to be like
him?” And SURPRISE, white people; We have minds of our own! If we are not in fraternities or eating houses
it is because we don’t want to be. Those that want to join are in them. So shut up with
that stupid bull about BSC pressure. Most of you don’t know a thing about BSC policy and don’t give a
damn about finding out. We want a good education in order to get a good job (and that’s what Davidson
gives, according to white America). That’s why we come to Davidson, not to be like you. But must we suffer
like hell to get it? Just give us more of our own and stop recruiting just enough to say, “Look,
America, we’re not prejudiced — we got a couple!” Now I turn my attention to the real culprit — those
I call the community of Davidson College: Its trustees, faculty, and administration. Congratulations to you old white men and women!
You graduate and will continue to graduate future white leaders of tomorrow who think like you want them to, with
no one around to challenge that mindset. Eric Hill, Paul Weiss, and David Gaston are victims of your creation. Though
they are not the only ones who truly believe in what they have said — many Davidson students believe this
and some of you do too — they are the only ones with the courage to put it in black
and white. Where is your voice? I see letters to the editor written by students, students stopping to ask questions,
to talk. Davidson Community, where is your voice? You condone everything with your disgusting silence. But you and Davidson’s black
students know why, don’t we. You are the power structure and if you talk about it too much then the
next step is action — and Davidson IS NOT going to change because Davidson does not have to. Let’s not
even mention the simple truth that you don’t want to. Privately owned Davidson College, in little Davidson, NC, with its
rich, preppy, white children can go on forever. Who cares about what black people want. Look at history, from slavery
to civil rights, white people don’t change unless they are forced to. So answer me this, Davidson. Why do you
recruit black students? For kicks? To see how many you can destroy, make go away? Why? Do you have some
quota to fill? You say you want black students and everything you do screams the opposite. Black students are continually
stopped by white police and asked for I.D. In their own different ways, white professors continue to tell black students
they don’t belong here. And you, the Davidson Community, you who separate yourselves from the blacks in Davidson with a
railroad track! You socially inept creatures who couldn’t communicate with a black person if you were paid to do it.
You, Davidson faculty/Administration who don't even speak to the blacks in your own little town except to say “Can you
babysit my child or clean my toilet for me this week?” You tell us, you pathetic hypocrites, that you want
black people on campus with you. If we all fell into a black hole tomorrow it wouldn't faze you. I
have yet to figure out why you bother. It would be much easier to just quit. Quit recruiting. Quit your
lies and pretenses. Then you would have no fights about Old South Weekend, no black culture bull, no racism seminars,
no need for big black Charles King to come and tell you you’re stupid and prejudiced, no guilt, no discomfort,
no disturbing black issues about change, no black nothing. I dare one of you “community” folk to tell me you
want black students here and tell me why. And my mommy called me and told me the other day “Anne,
I'm really glad you went to that school, now that it’s all over.” Damn. Davidson. Elliot is a senior English
major from Durham, NC.
