6 Friday, March 23, 1984 / The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

London Savoyards Give Rendition of The Mikado

By JOHN EGLIN

As some day it may happen
That a victim must be found
I've got a little list
I’ve got a little list
Of society’s offenders who would well be underground
Who would never be missed
They'd none of them be missed
Like the idiot who praises with enthusiastic tone
All centuries but this and every country but his own...
— The Lord High Executioner’s Song, from The Mikado.

A little over a century ago in a kingdom across the ocean, a razor-tongued and misanthropic writer of verse and a frustrated composer entered into partnership and became the Lennon and McCartney of the Victorian era. The dozen or more operettas that William S. Gilbert and Sir Arthur Sullivan produced poked fun at the foibles of Victorian society through comic stock characters drawn from contemporary life.

The Mikado, to be performed by the London Savoyards in Love Auditorium at 8:15 tonight, is one of the most popular Gilbert and Sullivan plays partly because of the enduring quality of the character types. Who among us, for instance, has never met a Pooh-Bah, a modern incarnation of the insufferably pompous “Lord High Everything Else,” or a Katisha, the Imperial “Daughter-in-Law Elect” with the physique and disposition of a sumo wrestler? Those who see this production will find it entirely too tempting to notice parallels among the Davidson faculty and administration.

If the characters are simple and straightforward, the storyline is not. The Mikado, set in medieval Japan, is filled with intricate plot twists. Nanki-Poo, a wandering minstrel (who is actually son and heir of the Mikado, emperor of Japan) arrives in the town of Titipu, where he meets Yum-Yum, ward and fiancée of Ko-Ko, former tailor and present Lord High Executioner, who has yet to perform his first execution.

Nanki-Poo and Yum-Yum fall in love, much to the distress of Ko-Ko. Meanwhile, Katisha, the formidable dowager officially betrothed to Nanki-Poo, arrives in town to find and expose her wayward fiancée. She finds him, but she is prevented from revealing his identity.

In the second act, Katisha returns to Titipu with the Mikado, who intends to raze the town because no execution has taken place there since Ko-Ko became executioner. Nanki-Poo saves the day; he tells Ko-Ko that he will volunteer to be executed in a year’s time if he is allowed to marry Yum-Yum at once. Ko-Ko agrees, but there follows one final plot complication: an ancient and nearly forgotten statute stipulating that the wife of a condemned man be executed as well. Don’t worry, however, Gilbert and Sullivan always resolve their plots on a cheerful note, with everyone ending up happier than ever.

The London Savoyards avoid the tendency current among producers of Gilbert and Sullivan to modernize the music, staging, and costumes. A recent production of The Mikado by another company moved the setting to modern Japan, dressing the characters in charcoal-gray suits and filling the stage with flashing neon signs. The Joseph Papp production of The Pirates of Penzance reduced this classic to the level of slapstick farce, butchering some of the best numbers beyond recognition.

In contrast, this production of The Mikado makes necessary adjustments in staging while preserving the traditional rendition of the music. This is not surprising, for the company includes former members of the D’Oyly Carte Company, which was, in its day, the foremost light opera company in Great Britain. Gilbert and Sullivan’s agent, Richard D’Oyly Carte, founded the company for the production of their operettas.

The presence of the London Savoyards at Davidson is a unique privilege brought about by fortuitous circumstances. Ordinarily, events in the Artists Series are booked at least one year in advance; in this case, the Artists Series Committee was only made aware of this opportunity in mid-February. The London Savoyards, in exchange for lodging and rehearsal space prior to their U.S. tour, are performing a $15,000 production free of charge — quite a coup for Davidson.