> ah oe Q Friday, January 27, 1984/The Davidsonian 11 OPINIONS Don’t Run Away From Arms Control Issue Mike Wilkinson
I was talking to someone the other day about the nuclear arms situation our country faces today. As soon as
I brought it up though, I looked across at the person I was supposed to be talking to, and she
was quickly turning pale and stuttering in her attempts to change the subject. At one more mention of the issue,
I realized I had really blown it. She had quickly made a U-turn and was running away from me as
fast as she could. No, this didn’t happen to me, but I sometimes feel as though there is an absolute
moratorium on nuclear arms conversation, however constructive it may be. Don’t get me wrong, I often agree . . .
who wants to talk about an issue which involves the very real threat of destruction of life on our planet.
I'd rather talk about last Saturday night, upcoming Spring Break, or even intellectual stuff, but not nuclear arms! I now
see the whole nuclear weapons and war issue as the single most important concern of our time. Furthermore, I have
come to believe that the best way we can all help fight the many dangers of the whole nuclear arms
situation is to at least understand what is threatening us. We need a more enlightened student body here at Davidson;
more importantly, we need a responsible, informed and concerned public in our United States and our world. I don’t believe
we are anywhere near this goal. So what do we do about it? I’m not asking that we have conversations
only about nuclear arms — that would be horrible. I am asking that we don’t become my hypothetical conversation partner
and run away at the mention of the word nuclear. We must face the most important issue of our time
by talking about it, learning about it, and writing about it. One thing I can certainly do is let everybody
have access to my opinion. Who knows? Maybe someone will read this! So let me try to back up this
claim of mine a little more substantially. Speaking in a general sense, we live in a representative democracy which is
based on the premise that the people run their government, however indirect that rule may be. The nuclear issue is
a military matter, and military matters have often been kept secret. Nuclear war, however, is a matter which far exceeds
the sole jurisdiction of the military; nuclear war directly and personally concerns any human being who wishes to survive on
this earth. Nuclear war very simply could destroy the human race. In order for people to think rationally and to
offer intelligent input into this matter of concern, they must be well informed on the nuclear arms issue. A major
problem with government secrecy is that it causes a lack of valuable public debate and healthy discussion. The public easily
begins believing these issues are only for government experts to consider. And, as Howard Morland (a well-established authority on nuclear
issues) asserts, “This self-imposed restraint only entrenches further those who are committed to the arms race.” An example of effective
public outrage is embodied in the Limited Test Ban Treaty of 1963 (signed by the USSR, the U.S. and the
U.K.). This was one of the most important treaties concerning nuclear weapons in our short nuclear history. Significantly, it was
partly a result of widespread public outcry against the serious health hazards posed by the testing of nuclear weapons. Had
the testing remained a government secret, who knows in what shape our atmosphere would exist today? As the public becomes
informed, those not very interested may be shocked into realizing the salience of this issue and may at least show
some type of interest where none existed previously. For those more concerned people, educational materials should be readily available so
that they may take an active interest based on substantive knowledge and facts. They must be well-informed on the nuclear
issue to argue effectively and support their position against false arguments, as well as to be able to distinguish between
propaganda and well-documented evidence. The hope of any democratic society rests on a responsible citizenry. With respect to this issue,
we must have an informed public before we can have a responsible citizenry. Davidson has already taken a step in
the right direction. There is now a course in Nuclear Arms (Cen. 242). I’m in that course, and it is
definitely raising my awareness of the nuclear arms issue. By the way, if you see me coming up to talk
to you, don’t run, I'll probably want to talk about last Saturday night, upcoming Spring Break, or even intellectual stuff
. . . probably not nuclear arms. . . but don’t count on it. Wilkinson is a junior Center International
Political Economy major from Wilmington, N.C. Room of the College Union we will have a panel of coaches including Athletic
Director and Head Football Coach Ed Farrell, Head Basketball Coach Bobby Hussey, and men’s and women’s minor sport coaches. Also
we will have a representative from the Admissions Office available. TheFormat will be informal and simple. A brief background statement
of “how we have evolved to where we are” will be given; the rest of the time will be given
over to question-and-answer.

— If you have ever wondered about the role of athletics at Davidson,
— If you have ever wondered why they don’t change athletics by...
— If you have ever heard a rumor that such-and-such went on and you want it confirmed or denied,
— If you have ever voiced your opinion on athletics here, I urge you to attend.

Bring your questions, your concerns, your complaints, your suggestions, and even your compliments. Bring a friend. But please attend.

Jeff Frank
Men’s Tennis Coach

God Hears Me

To the Editors:

Let me begin by stating my religion is a very personal matter. Between me and God, to be explicit. Dick
Lee’s article in The Davidsonian (January 20, 1984), however, has prompted me to come forth and defend the silent, religious-in-my-private
sector. I believe it is entirely incorrect to assume that a lack of public religious display demonstrates a lack of
religious conviction. Conversely, verbose proclamations do not necessarily prove a conviction of spirit. Certainly, we can all think of at
least one person who can recite the Bible forwards and backwards while missing every message. Similarly, membership in a campus
Christian organization is not the sole measure of religious conviction.

Religious organizations may serve a vital function for some, but I would argue that others of us have developed spiritually
outside of organized religion, despite Lee’s disbelief. Lee contends that “Because we students lack self-motivation... guidelines set by the college
and its professors... to develop spiritually.” Students sound like a bunch of spineless lumps. I resist this description. Perhaps Lee
needs someone to force him to go to class; I don’t. I have decided that I need to go to
class. My professors are not my parents or my conscience or my cattle-prodders. I am my own person. I like
to think that most college students are mature enough to set their own priorities and strive to reach them not
because they are forced but because they want to reach them. The thought of 1350 unmotivated students is actually a
very scary idea in general. If students are not responsible enough to choose a way of spiritual or academic development,
it seems unlikely that these same students could act responsibly in other facets of their lives. If this is the
case, perhaps the greatest service the College can provide would be to stop playing big brother and force students to
grow up. As adults, we will each need to be able to make decisions, prioritize, and act with conviction. More
legislated activity could only further delay the testing of our wings.

A last concern with Lee’s article rests with the supposition that forced fellowship would be rewarding. Fellowship cannot be forced
on people. Neither can religion. People must choose to adopt spiritual beliefs. (As a corollary, I hate to think that
Christianity is so offensive that it must be forced on anyone.) I hope that I may somehow reassure Lee that
the silence does not indicate apathy. If you had asked, I would have told you sooner. My voice is low
but God hears me. And that’s all that counts, isn’t it?

Jennifer Spencer

Class Gift

To the Editor:

We would like to urge the Class of 1984 to give serious consideration to the possibility of linking its class
gift to an important undertaking at Davidson — the Dean Rusk Endowment for International Studies. The Endowment is an alumni
initiative that seeks to enhance international educational opportunities at Davidson by funding visiting professors, Davidson-sponsored programs abroad, and resources for
expanding the international curriculum. Last year’s graduating class pledged to raise an endowment fund supporting a need-based scholarship to Davidson
over the next five years. Through a pledged donation, to be used in connection with the Rusk Endowment name, we
can establish our own tradition by directing our gift into scholarships for international study. A 1984 International Scholarship Fund can
have exciting implications — as an opportunity to diversify the student body and to broaden its international component, as a
unique Senior Class gift, distinguishable from among past gifts; as a signal of support for a program with interesting possibilities
in this its first year; as a stimulus to increased campus awareness of the Endowment and of international education in
general; and as a profound statement of student willingness to participate in the academic evolution of Davidson College.

The Dean Rusk Endowment will require more than external endorsement to permanently enrich the Davidson campus atmosphere and curriculum. To
fulfill its real potential, the Endowment will need continuous internal support from the students for whom it was created. If
Davidsonians are willing to make the Endowment, and international education, a real concern — and we believe they are —
then this is the year to begin. As Seniors, through our gift, we can begin.

Elizabeth Smiley
Carl Rist
Mary P. Fant
Jeff Mann
Hunter Monroe
