14 Friday, October 12, 1984 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Production Manager
Kevin Horan, Business Manager
Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor
Will Thomason, Advertising Manager
Ross Holt, Editor

Attitudes Toward Athletics

For most of Davidson, the football program begins and ends each Saturday every fall. But the program’s total operation dwarfs such a narrow impression: players, coaches, and staff work all year to produce Davidson football. To some, the team’s winless efforts this year indicate a program plagued with problems enough to question whether Davidson should have a football team at all. However, the Trustees have mandated that all Davidson teams compete in the Southern Conference, which requires that all conference members field a football team. Most Southern Conference schools offer healthy scholarships in football; Davidson gives none, except in cases of financial need.

The football program’s inability to compete successfully in the Southern Conference would merit an exemption for football. But, Coach Ed Farrel has said Southern Conference schools won’t grant one because they are jealous that Davidson would subsequently gain an advantage in basketball. Question: how earnestly has Davidson pursued an exemption from football in the Southern Conference?

Inter-school politics aside, the football issue ultimately concerns the livelihood of students who devote their efforts to the program. Football players receive far less praise here than at other schools. To some extent, the campus tacitly ostracizes football players, who suffer from unfair stereotypes held by students and faculty. Remember, football players must meet all the admission requirements every other student faces; there exists no basis to judge football players differently in terms of academics — none. Yet, the suppressed tensions do not all originate from Chambers. Coach Farrel has in the past accused the Dean’s office of treating athletes more severely than other students. The faculty carries a stigma of being anti-athletic. Again, unfair stereotypes run rampant.

The sad part of this dilemma appears in how long these tensions have lasted. It seems Davidson gets tired of the issue and, in apathy, just forgets. This begs the question of whether a new athletic director will make any difference. A poll taken last year showed that students and faculty felt that football received too much emphasis. Community support for the program seems superficial, at best. As Davidson athletics are presently structured, the football program is the key to the success of other programs. If Davidson wants to keep a football team, then it must rethink its athletic philosophy. Fundamentally, athletics should first serve to benefit students — not alumni, the Trustees, or the living endowment. The national recognition or income — or even conference position — the College may gain from athletics must come second to the welfare of athletes. If this is not the case, then the College is using a group of its students as sacrificial lambs: Is this something in which Davidson should take pride?

Davidson's athletic program needs fundamental changes; the College can start by examining its conflicting attitudes toward athletics. For too long, the real contest has occurred off, instead of on the playing field.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Boyd Blackburn and Ted Wilson, Assistant News Editors, Ginger Broaddus, Richard Cloudt, Andrea Diedrich, Chris Fisher, Roxanna Guilford, Shane Meeks, Tom Schilling, Chandon Sinlia, Lee White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson, Chris Hughes, Jill Boyette

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Corliss Carter, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris, Andrew Wilson, Thurston Hatcher

Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Assistant Sports Editor, Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley

Photography Staff: Brad Brechtelsbauer, Jill Boyette, Phillip Dennis, Christian Harberts, Kevin Horan, Warriner Inge, Rocky Kmiecik, Bruce von Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey

AdvertisingStaff: Laurin de Beck, Joanneke Brentjens, John Redding, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt
Production Staff: Kevin Horan, Brooke Knight, Pauline Rhodes.
Compositors: Anne Lambert, Lisa Lano, Martha Yeide
Circulation: David McCurry, Manager

LETTERS

To the Editors:

Sometimes we need a devil’s advocate to help us put our views on various issues in a proper perspective. It seems to me that Peggy Pierotti in her Opinions article last week (“JYA Must Not Be Excuse to Neglect Academics”) tried to play just that role. Instead of presenting fresh insight into the discussion of the “Junior Year Abroad” tradition, however, Pierotti has merely clouded an issue, if it is an issue at all.

I believe there is a problem with the JYA system, but I believe Pierotti missed the point in explaining what the problem is, relying on general and fallacious observations which unfairly criticize the students rather than the system itself. I would like to make a personal case in point. I am one of those students who attended a program in England or Scotland, where Pierotti says the “lack of seriousness is especially prevalent.”

Two years ago, as a sophomore, I decided that I wanted to spend my junior year in England. I had initially prepared to attend Davidson’s program at Montpellier, but because I am an English major and because I wanted to be in a major city offering a wide range of cultural opportunities, London, England seemed the logical alternative. Once I made this decision I was pretty much on my own. The International Education Department handed me a few catalogs listing several United Kingdom programs, but they were unable to provide any advice on which schools might provide a suitable academic environment. I took a stab in the dark and selected Westfield College, a small branch of the University of London. The academics, I discovered, were not up to a Davidson standard, but I did what was asked of me, I read many fascinating books which would not have fit into the Davidson curriculum, and I enjoyed all that London had to offer me.

Should I be criticized for this? Should I be accused of making little commitment and labelled ‘immature and ignorant”? My intention was never to escape “Will Terry and an exam envelope” or “compromise academics in order to experience a culture.” I wanted to study in England, and Davidson granted me that privilege. Pierotti does me and all the other students in England, Scotland and elsewhere a great disservice by criticizing programs she knows little or nothing about. She casts a cloud over our achievements while failing to offer any fresh ideas to improve the JYA system.

Davidson could follow Princeton’s example and discourage all students from studying abroad unless they are language majors. Then we could be assured that all Davidson students were following that path of real academic seriousness. Instead of allowing the political science major to witness the exchange of ideologies in Marburg or the English major to attend Shakespearean theater in London, we could place both back in library carrels and lecture halls. I do not believe that is what Pierotti wants, but that is one alternative.

The other alternative is much more logical. The International Education Department should look into the programs in the U.K., Spain, Florence, and elsewhere and find out which of those programs provide the best academic and cultural offerings for a student’s time and money. There are excellent programs to be found in all of these locales, but it is not always so easy to find out about them. Davidson needs to promote its own programs overseas, but I believe that it is in everyone’s best interest for the International Education Department to find out more about the very best programs offered not only in Europe, but all over the world. If Davidson wants its students to get the most out of their studies abroad, Davidson itself must initiate a stronger guidance program to help satisfy each individual’s needs.

Thurston Hatcher