Friday, February 3, 1984 / The Davidsonian 5

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Claude Frank Gives Crystal Clear Performance

By BILL BUGG

Pianist Claude Frank entertained an enthusiastic Artists Series audience Tuesday night, performing works by Schubert, Chopin, Ginastera, and Beethoven.

Frank began the concert with Schubert’s Sonata in G Major, Op. 78. His crystal clear technique exhibited warmth and vivid
contrasts of dynamics. The passagework showed great expression, and he voiced the melody beautifully.

The second piece was Fantasie in F minor, Op. 49 by Frederic Chopin. Frank played the runs crisply and contrasted
forte and piano, bass and treble expertly.

Although his repertoire is generally conservative, Frank occasionally performs twentieth-century music. His third selection, Alberto Ginastera’s Danzas Argentinas, provided variety
and color in the program. In an interview, Frank said the Argentine composer's works have a strong sense of structure
with neither too much nor too little repetition. He labeled the Dance of the Old Cowherd “folksy and amusing,” the
Dance of the Graceful Maiden “imaginative,” and the Dance of the Cowboy Horse Thief “a wild cowboy dance.”

The concert’s finale, Beethoven’s Sonata in C Major, Opus 53 (“Waldstein”), was superb. Frank's polyphonic emphasis on passagework coupled well
with his voicing of the sweeping melody in the transition to the final movement. The buildup to the majestic climax
was thrilling.

The encores consisted of Debussy’s General Lavine Eccentric, Liszt's lithe Hungarian Rhapsody, and the more subtle and lyrical Busoni-transcription of
Bach's Adagio from Organ Toccata in C Major. This final, short piece stunned the audience, and Frank received a standing
ovation.

Frank, born in 1925, lived in Nuremberg, Germany until he was 12. During the German occupation, he moved from Nuremberg
to Brussels to Paris to Lisbon, before coming to the United States in 1940.

From the early to late 1940s he studied with Artur Schnabel, an Austrian pianist and composer who emigrated to the
United States in 1939. Schnabel, one of the most revered teachers of this century, had a profound influence on Frank.
In a piano master class Monday, he recounted an experience he had under Schnabel. Once, when Frank was playing a
Beethoven Sonata during a lesson, Schnabel interrupted him and said, “It is beautiful.” Frank humbly replied, “Thank you.” Schnabel then
retorted, “No, I was referring to the piece.”

Frank said he rarely listens to Schnabel’s 1930 recording of Beethoven's 32 sonatas, preferring to keep the memory of Schnabel
as a teacher. RCA released Frank's recording of Beethoven's sonatas over a decade ago, and a new recording will soon
be released under another label.

Except for an occasional Mozart concerto cadenza, Frank said he rarely composes. He did, however, compose in his earlier years
in New York with Normand Lockwood, and aspires to do so again. When asked what composer is his favorite, he
replied, “I have four gods: Bach, Mozart, Beethoven, and Schubert.”

Frank has performed with the Boston Symphony Chamber Players and the Juilliard, Cleveland, and Emerson Quartets. The 1983-84 season marks
his 25th anniversary as a performing artist. Concert engagements have taken him to South America, North America, Europe, Asia, and
Africa. He will be appearing in Israel this March. Currently, he is on the faculty at Yale where he is
much sought after as a teacher. Each summer he performs and teaches at the Aspen Music Festival.Music Festival. He is
married to pianist Lillion Kallir.

Lentz Ivey Strives For Technical Precision
By SCOT W. MYERS

Student artist Lentz Ivey opened his third public show Monday with the hoopla of printed invitations and a wine and
cheese reception in the Union Gallery. Ivey does not seem limited to any single medium for expression; his exhibition includes
not only watercolor paintings but pencil drawings, etchings, lithographs, and even a pastel rendering.

While his etchings represent his finest technical work, the watercolors demonstrate more clearly his talent. Natural Reflection of City's Scape
and Marsh Oak are clearly the finest works in this show. Most of Ivey’s works are harshly linear. He admits
in his opening statement that he is fascinated with the structure and representation of buildings, and over half of his
works use buildings as the subject. Yet in each he has created a new subject. Natural Reflection, while dominated by
a harsh building face, is softened by warm, hazy clouds reflecting off the cold windows of the building. Sole is
a boring housefront made electric with violent window shades and a haunting woman glancing out.

Most of his work, however, lacks the haunting qualities of these two paintings. While his style is technically precise, it
lacks the passion with which we usually associate great work. There is a routine, a disturbing pattern in almost every
piece. Newtie’s Balcony fails to capture the imagination, and the vague figure merely distracts instead of captivates as in Sole.
Ivey's attempts to diversify his pictures result in second-rate works. Apparently, when Ivey leaves behind the harsh lines, he leaves
some portion of his talent behind as well.

His etchings, for example, include a wonderful noir-style piece entitled Slats. The juxtaposing lines and harsh contrasts make for fascinating
study. My Garden, on the other hand (with its attempts at smoother, natural configurations) fails to evoke a response any
greater than “that’s nice.” It is only with Empty Alameda that he manages to combine both straight line and curve,
brought together in yet another man-made edifice.

Ivey's only success with nature is the watercolor entitled Marsh Oak. The accomplishment here, however, is not the choice of
subject matter but the manner in which the colors are blended. A rather plain view of a tree limb and
its forestal background becomes alive with color, a hint of changing sun delicately mixed in. An untitled pastel provides an
interesting diversion as layer is heaped upon layer of color. Several vicious slashes cut through to some otherwise unseen level
below. The viewer is not privy to the significance of the piece, but as one of only two non-representational pieces,
it gives us some glimpse, however small, to another unexplored side of the artist.

Despite conflicting works, Lentz Ivey has talent. While his range is limited and his attempts to move out of that
range are not terribly successful, he manages to create a clean picture without being sterile. There is style to Ivey's
style. In a world of “modern art” Ivey is a breath of fresh air, for he simply creates beauty.
