8 Wednesday, December 12, 1984 / The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Men’s Basketball Wins Hornet’s Nest Trophy

By ANDY BARRON

Question marks. Those are what surround Davidson’s basketball team. How good is Davidson? Can this young team confound the pre-season
pundits and escape the Southern Conference cellar? Will any leaders emerge from the mass previously led by Kenny Wilson?

Unfortunately for the bewildered fan, Davidson’s games against Wake Forest and UNCC (both in Charlotte) raised more questions than they
answered. Can Davidson play two solid halves of basketball? Can the Wildcats beat a quality opponent? Or a quality press?

The Wake Forest game raised mostly questions while the UNCC game finally gave some answers. Davidson can play with a
quality team. Witness the following halftime score — Davidson 35, Wake Forest 20. The Wildcats can also be blown out
by such a team; witness the final score — Wake Forest 69, Davidson 55. The turn of events was put
in proper perspective by sophomore Ace Tanner. “In the first half, we played to win,” commented Tanner. “In the second
half we played not to lose.”

The first half was all Davidson. Everyone got into the act. Tanner replaced freshman Jeff Himes midway through the half
and promptly scored two field goals. Junior Gerry Born had seven points and seven rebounds. Freshman Derek Rucker’s twelve points
led the Wildcats.

Davidson’s ability to handle a tight press came into question in the second half. Wake Forest unleashed an aggressive full-court
press. All the fruits of the Wildcats’ first-half effort disappeared against the press. It took Davidson seven minutes to score
and by then the lead was all but gone. Wake Forest’s speedy midget, 5’3” sophomore point guard Tyrone Bogues made
putting the ball on the floor dangerous, to say the least, and combined aggressive play with the indifference of the
referees to destroy Davidson’s confidence. Add 19 points by guard Delaney Rudd and 17 by forward Kenny Green and you
have a blow-out.

“We failed to keep our intensity,” commented junior Pepper Bego. “I think the second half taught us a valuable lesson.
We have to be aggressive to be successful.”

UNCC

The internationally renowned “Battle for the Hornet’s Nest” against UNCC showed Davidson in a better light. Davidson broke a press
consistently, though it wasn’t of the same caliber. Davidson played a strong second half, erasing a 31-26 halftime deficit and
forging a 70-64 victory. Most importantly, Davidson showed composure late in the game with the score tight.

“To me, the difference was that we were better prepared,” said junior Ken Niebuhr. “This was because Coach Hussey worked
hard in practice on making each player aware of his duties. This made it easier to break the press and
to play under control late in the game.”

To beat UNCC, the Wildcats had to overcome their own sluggish play early in the first half. Their rebounding was
nonexistent, the offense was hesitant, and Davidson’s collective head was elsewhere. UNCC center Leroy Smith hit a turnaround jumper with
9:22 to give UNCC a 23-14 lead. UNCC point guard Keith Williams hit two free throws with 5:29 left on
the clock to make the score 27-18, UNCC. However, this was the last time the 49’ers led by this much.

Forwards Niebuhr and Born combined to put Davidson back in the game before halftime. Each followed a missed shot with
short buckets to lower the deficit to 27-22. As the two teams exchanged baskets for the remaining three and a
half minutes of the game, two Niebuhr free throws and a Born field goal finished the Wildcats’ first half scoring.
UNCC led at halftime 31-26.

Early in the second half the two teams exchanged baskets and momentum. Davidson managed to pull within one several times,
but was unable to take the lead. That is until Niebuhr hit a jump shot and followed it with two
free throws to give Davidson its first lead of the second half, 44-43 with 12:31 to go. The excitement began
to build as the two teams continued to exchange leads. Smith hit both ends of a one and one to
give UNCC a 49-48 lead with 9:38 remaining. Fifteen seconds later,Tanner put the Davidson fans in a frenzy with a
thunderous jam from the wing to put Davidson on top 50-49. UNCC freshman Clinton Hinton (who is, by the way,
a candidate for the most overpublicized player in the NCAA) hit two free throws to put UNCC back on top
51-50. This trend dominated the game until UNCC’s Williams stole the ball and made a lay-up to give the 49ers
a 58-54 lead with 6:17 left in the battle. Yet it was the last hurrah for UNCC. Tanner hit a
jumper and Born got an inside shot to knot the game at 58 only a minute later. Then UNCC suddenly
couldn’t buy a basket. Davidson, however, got a lay-up from Himes and a fast break goal from Rucker to give
Davidson an insurmountable lead at 66-61 with 2:26 to go. This doesn’t mean the excitement was over. Davidson gave up
a three-point play and missed two one-and-ones. Nothing to fear, however, because Hinton bricked again and Rucker laid the ball
in on yet another fast break. Himes blocked the next UNCC shot and the game was history except for two
Bego free throws.

Both games showed just how crucial it is for Davidson to have a total team effort. Only Rucker with 19
points and Born with 11 came through against Wake Forest. Tanner scored 6 points in both games and was Davidson’s
third leading scorer against Wake Forest, but had five teammates score as many or more against UNCC. Bego led the
way with 18. Born and Niebuhr each had 16 to give Davidson a solid inside game, something that will be
of supreme importance in Southern Conference play. Davidson is now 3-3 and about to enter what can only be described
as the “difficult” part of the schedule. On Wednesday, Davidson plays third-ranked St. John’s and then travels to fourth-ranked Duke
on Monday. These are national rankings, not the regional rankings heard during soccer season. Needless to say, the Wildcats have
their work cut out for them. If either opponent is napping and Davidson plays aggressive team basketball, the young Wildcats
could get a shot in the arm.

Wrestling Team Seeks 2nd Winning Season
By MIKE ADAMS

The Davidson College wrestling team is aiming for its second straight winning season under new head coach Bob Guarini. Five
of eight starters from last year’s 8-7 team have not returned. The loss of those five has caused the team’s
biggest weakness, a lack of experience. Only four of the 12 team members have any prior college experience. This year’s
starting line-up will probably include four freshmen — Steve Lau at 118 pounds, Carl Ailara at 126, Keith Finch at
167, and Doug Saintsburg at 177. Junior Brad Essman at 150 has not wrestled in college and junior Griff Elder
at 190 has never wrestled. As of now, the team does not have a heavyweight. Several big men have practiced
with the team on occasion, though.

The leadership of this inexperienced team falls to seniors Mike Keeley and Tom Oddo, and sophomore John T. Lay. Lay,
at 142 pounds, is returning from an excellent freshman year. He won several matches on his aggressiveness and quickness last
year. He has improved his takedown skills and profited from his experience. Lay will be pushed by junior Taylor Simpson,
a starter last year at 134 pounds. Keeley, at 158 pounds, is the elder statesman of the team, with three
years’ experience. He is a steady, defensive wrestler who makes few mistakes on the mat. Keeley’s main weakness is a
lack of aggressiveness. Oddo, at 134 pounds, should be the best wrestler on the team. He is returning from a
year’s layoff after qualifying for the NAIA Tournament as a sophomore. Keeley says of Oddo on the mat, “It’s like
he was born there; he’s a natural at it.” Oddo is quick and strong enough to make opponents wrestle his
style.

First-year coach Guarini is working the team hard, opening each practice with 55 minutes of conditioning drills. The team will
need to be in good shape for this year’s tough schedule, which includes duels against teams like The Citadel and
Elon, and two tournaments. A lot of the team’s success will depend on the ability of the inexperienced wrestlers to
adapt to college style and on the leadership provided by the veterans.
