6 Friday, May 4, 1984/The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Donley’s Pictures Paint A Not-So-Pretty World

By MATT MORRIS

The best kind of mystery, or at least the most enticing, illustrates a truth which can be understood by an
instant revelation, regardless of the clues involved, leaving reason behind. Pat Donley’s exhibition of paintings and etchings exudes just such
a “mystery.” As an inquisitive viewer explores Donley’s world of visuals, he will find that the “clues” in each figurative
painting and etching provide revelation, but only after the viewer has assimilated the facts on his own, deriving a deep
personal meaning. The paintings in particular have the same effect as starting a book in the middle and then reading
only one page — what direction the characters involved take, what emotions are elicited depends entirely on the viewer’s imagination.

Still Life, the single black and white piece on display, perfectly captures Donley’s interest in the ambiguous. A dark figure,
wearing boots which suggest the military, either crawls or lies dead on several geometric shapes that form a staircase. The
background space drifts from the solid shapes into a limbo of suggestiveness, and immediately the viewer will find himself concocting
a “storyline” to the painting. Donley remains elusive. “I don’t try to incorporate a ‘big message’ into my painting,” he
says. “I simply present.”

Using primarily heavy layers of acrylic paints, the thick application creates delightful textures, not depictions of reality but suggestions of
another kind of world. Agriculture combines bright oranges and reds, dazzling the eye with a rich mid-western color harmony. Donley
is a fine colorist, creating shades that are neither overly warm nor cool, instead bringing a pleasing unification of tone
to his canvases.

And perhaps this is why the etchings in the exhibition are, for the most part, less successful. Donley’s use of
color remains more confident, at least for now, than his use of figural drawings. With his etchings, and in particular,
the melancholy Miss Leanne, there is, however, every indication that with time this ability will come.

As Donley’s paintings move into the city, his textures and color application do not change but his sense of perspective
does. Like a Thomas Hart Benton nightmare, Dance to the Waxing Gibbons bends and weaves through a “fish-eye” perspective, creating
a nervous urban anxiety. The distortion goes just beyond reality suggesting dark caricature, and the mood beneath the paint is
strikingly somber.

In an even more powerful method, this spiraling point of view occupies the world of New Bedford, a horrifying rape
scene captured in a brilliantly dizzy elliptical perspective. Here, through the concave “twisting” composition, the eye surrenders to the large
vertical canvas and the viewer can actually fall into the seedy Massachusetts pool hall. But Donley does not depict a
pretty world here — his harsh colors create a terrifying vision, one which is hard to look at, but hard
to leave. The brazen coloration and contorted configuration evident in all of Donley’s paintings and etchings suggest a droll wit,
but like any good joke, the implications are dark.

Donley’s works are on exhibition in the Cunningham lobby now through May 27.

50 Student Artists Display Works In Art Show

By SCOT MYERS

The Chambers Gallery is currently home to 65 student-produced art works. Representing some 50 artists, the display includes a variety
of pencil and oil crayon drawings as well as oil and watercolor paintings.

Jane Aurell’s contribution to the show is, in many ways, indicative of the majority of the student works: oversimplification. What
makes it stand out is the calming feeling generated by the colors. Brush strokes create smooth swirls in the texture
of the paint heightening the overall effect.

In harsh contrast to the softness of Aurell’s painting is Stewart Cauley’s work. An amazing piece of textured painting, it
looks like molded concrete covered...With graffiti. With two of his four works, Pat Donley manages to steal the show. Donley
creates an amazing illusion with one painting in which the wall of a gallery is actually part of the picture.
Donley even takes the liberty of adding the viewers' shadows when they look at the piece. While that work teases
the viewer, his other painting haunts with a terribly unnerving view of Donley’s own Moulin Rouge. A mixture of collage
overpainted with acrylics, it warrants far more than the cursory glance attributed to many other works.

One of the most outstanding pencil drawings was a simple Raggedy Ann doll by Laeta Kalogridis. While the choice of
subject may be less than inspiring, the meticulous rendering of the doll’s cloth dress is incredible. Maximizing the effect one
can only achieve with pencil, you can almost reach out and touch this oversized doll and her puffy, grey dress.
Kalogridis attempts to recreate the same feel of fabric in her watercolor piece with far less success. Despite a nice
choice of colors, she fails to manipulate the medium as convincingly as her pencil.

Dave Klett contributes five prints. While his stylized figures are unimpressive, there is something pleasing in his primitive style. One
print is particularly impressive as Klett manipulates two ink colors for a myriad of effects. Like Lentz Ivey’s color litho,
Klett’s print suffers slightly from off-key registration, but is, nonetheless, an impressive achievement.

Daring use of color and angle distinguish the first of Trina Lammers’ four paintings. Taking the first award in the
show, it is a stylistic piece with no definite image. Her second piece disappoints, however. Other than the size, it
is too similar to her prize-winning painting. Her third and fourth pieces just became two more triangle orgies in neon.

Kat Lehman is still experimenting with her work. Her three pieces include a watercolor, an acrylic, and a pencil drawing.
Lehman’s locker room painting is simple but nice and her sketch puts some new life in an old skull the
Art Department keeps around for target practice. Like Kalogridis, the pencil is her best tool.

Charlie Lovett seems to work with a machine gun loaded with paint. His two paintings are a myriad of acrylic
dots representing no definite image but creating, instead, color impressions.

Perhaps joining Donley, Klett, and Ivey in Davidson’s Lithography Hall of Fame is Meg McArn with her unobtrusive etchings of
plants. Two small works indicate no small talent. The opposite of McArn’s petite prints, Ken Pooley’s two huge paintings overwhelm
the viewer. The one with the red man is a bit too bright and too much like Russ Warren’s dogs.
His other painting, however, is much smoother and more refined. Though appearing a bit rushed, its grey man is easier
on the eyes and commands the viewer's attention better than the former work.

Andy Rock’s two paintings come off with extreme gentleness. His watercolor contains a wonderful, forested horizon while his oil is
overwhelmed by some smooth noir-style set piece. Also displaying two paintings in the show is Jim Rumley. A huge canvas
comes alive as a red and flesh whirlwind decorates its surface. What makes the painting even more fascinating is that
a whole rainbow is hidden in the piece, each different color speckled and blended in with each stroke of the
brush. The piece has a nice feel, literally and figuratively, as the paint is carefully textured and the color blendings
smoothly handled. His other work, while dominated by blues, is similarly effective. Both works are as successful as they are
beautiful.

Chris Suhr’s and Forrest Williams’ paintings convey both their respective images and impressions well, while Mark Williams’ skillfully etched autumn
leaves suffer from an unclear image hidden in them. Other notable works in the show include etchings by Elise Alves,
Stewart Edmunds, Laura McGee, and Scott Purdy, drawings by Greg Kash, and paintings by Miguel Abreu, Sarah Hart, and Jeff
Knudson.

Randy Stroud
