Friday, February 17, 1984 / The Davidsonian 11

OPINIONS

Reagan’s Simplistic Foreign Policy
Dr. Louis Ortmayer

The Reagan Administration rolled into Washington in January 1981, with two central tenets in a worldview which formed the basis
of foreign policy. The first projected the Soviet Union as the source of most trouble in the world, and the
second built upon this by directing the U.S. to increase its military power, in order to counter the perceived Soviet
threat and maintain global leadership. President Reagan entered office, however, with no ostensible blueprints for foreign policy, and he fashioned
a staff and administration with fewer experienced officials in top-level foreign policy positions than any in recent decades. Three years
later the situation has not changed appreciably. Gone are some of the “stars” of the early Reagan foreign affairs team:
Judge Clark and General Haig. But the worldview remains, with its concomitant ideological passion. The result is that atop a
world already made volatile by its many small-scale conflicts is a layer of superheated rhetoric between the United States and
the Soviet Union, an impasse which contributes to an apprehension sensed strongly in Europe, and in the USSR, and even
apparently at home. Even Georgia Senator Sam Nunn, no outspoken critic of the Administration’s general policy framework, has been brought
to remark recently of Reagan’s tendency to blame Moscow for everything that goes wrong in the world: It is a
gross simplification to judge everything we do in the world as being in response to or opposed by the Soviet
Union. That is a simplification of foreign policy that is out of touch with reality in a place like the
Middle East, with so many historical animosities that would be there if Karl Marx had never been born.

And foreign policy issues are remarkably constant after these same three years, although many have become more acute.

International Political Issues

The unquestioned number one issue and therefore priority is the creation of means and/or channels for getting a handle on
the nuclear arms race. The sharp rhetoric and current absence of any arms negotiations between the U.S. and the Soviet
Union have become especially critical because of the ongoing technological momentum of the arms race. Progress on arms limitations and,
further, arms reductions is acute on the eve of the deployment of new generations of offensive strategic weapons (MX, Cruises,
Trident submarines and D-5 missiles, and their inevitable Soviet counterparts). Wishful thinking about a 21st Century “High Horizons” defensive system
merely seeks to obfuscate the seriousness of current decisions and technological leaps forward. Overlooked in the Reagan Administration’s obvious self-satisfaction
with the scheduled deployment of Pershing-II and cruise missiles in Europe is the fact that the U.S. and NATO are
also obligated by the stipulations of the 1979 NATO modernization decisions to reach (simultaneously with deployment) substantial cutbacks and understandings
on East-West theater force levels. The INF talks, desultory at their height, have been suspended altogether since November. Finally, in
the nuclear arms area, there is emerging the little-known corollary to the US/Soviet arms race — nuclear proliferation. A number
of “threshold” nuclear countries (including some signatory states) are pointing to the 1968 Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and noting that they
no longer feel themselves obligated to a treaty which made non-proliferation dependent on the capping of US/Soviet vertical arms proliferation.
The unraveling of 15 years of hard-fought arms control is proceeding rapidly in the Third World as the U.S. prefers
to stand eyeball-to-eyeball with the USSR.

The Reagan Administration’s fanfare for a long-sought justification for its Latin American policy — the multibillion-dollar Kissinger Commission plan —
also deserved attention. The commission report succeeded in providing rationale for the continuing program of military and economic aid to
the region, but it fell short of creating its second goal — a domestic consensus behind that policy. It also
skirted two central issues: whether aid to El Salvador (or other states) should be contingent upon improvements in human rights,
and second, whether the U.S. should continue its “covert” assistance to rebels in Nicaragua. Moreover, the commission did little to
change Administration views about the offer by the Contadora countries (Mexico, Venezuela, Panama, and Colombia) to get the opposing sides
talking and negotiating. Washington seems to prefer confrontation and a grandiose Kissinger plan (where the $8 billion will come from
in an already overextended budget is a good question) to the Contadora “process,” which finds that negotiations toward some peace
in Central America are possible and preferable to a deepening war. The militarization of U.S. policy has become perhaps most
notable therefore in this area, with the creation of what some are calling the “U.S.S. Honduras.” And militarism, often disguised
as patriotism (as in Dr. Johnson’s “last refuge”), is becoming the easy refuge.of an undifferentiated and simplistic world view turned
policy, disguised as patriotism (as in Dr. Johnson’s “last refuge”), is becoming the easy refuge of an undifferentiated and simplistic
world view turned policy. In the Middle East, a wandering Reagan Administration policy, which began with strong pro-Israeli views, shifted
to a much more detached position exemplified by the 1982 Reagan Plan, and floundered in Lebanon, will undoubtedly swing back
toward Israel in 1984. This latest shift reveals no new (or even old) blueprint for U.S. policy in this theater,
rather a traditional domestic concern for the Jewish vote which reaches a crescendo in an election year. The complexities of
Lebanon and the abject failure of this Administration in fashioning its hoped-for anti-Soviet strategic consensus in the region have left
this arena of U.S. foreign policy marked by an amalgam of inconsistency, assertiveness, and inconclusive caution. Meanwhile, Egypt drifts back
into the Arab world and the Camp David framework crumbles.

In southern Africa, a crisis waits to explode. Three years of U.S. statecraft which has served to reassure and assuage
South Africa on the questions of Namibia and Angola have left settlement on Namibian independence more illusory than in 1980,
and Angola more dependent on Cuban troops in the face of South African incursions. The Reagan Administration’s strategy of “constructive
engagement” has not visibly advanced the primary goal of peaceful change; but it has provided a perceived convergence of U.S.
and South African policies in the eyes of almost all other interested parties in this area of the world. Black
Africa does not view this conjunction with equanimity, and the long-range consequences for U.S. interests in the whole of Africa
are not promising.

International Economic Issues

The overriding concern of the Reagan Administration with the domestic American economy has also had important international repercussions. To many
critics, it is imperative that the U.S. not only recognize the fact of international economic interdependence (which domestic preoccupations obscure
or downplay) but that the country also move toward developing policies and forums of international consultation for dealing with this
contemporary international fact. Simmering trade disputes with Europe and chronic trade imbalances with Japan along with foreign complaints about the
status of the dollar are only symptoms of deeper, fundamental problems. Firstly, the whole question of international economic competitiveness is
only beginning to emerge on the Reagan foreign agenda. Instead, stop-gap measures protecting politically powerful U.S. industries (autos, steel, textiles,
etc.) have provided practical contradiction to an Administration rhetorically committed to free trade. The impact of unprecedented and presumably unending
U.S. government deficits have thus far been questioned principally with regard only to their domestic repercussions, while closely related interest
rate differentials, capital outflows, and depreciating currencies (relative to an overvalued dollar) plague recession-ridden economies in Europe and elsewhere. The
Reagan Administration has strongly resisted the realization that domestic U.S. policies and programs have major international economic consequences, repercussions which
if other countries move to protect or insulate themselves will increasingly come back to haunt U.S. foreign policy and economy.
And in two areas of major future concern, energy and Third World debt, Washington has developed almost no policy guidelines
at all. The breathing space which a world oil glut has created as a cushion for the Reagan Administration is
unlikely to last a second term. And a renewed energy crisis will hit much harder in an already overextended developing
world.

This survey concludes with the contrast of two conflicting views about Reagan’s foreign policy. The first (generally subscribed to by
many Americans) holds that this Administration, after years of U.S. weakness and indecisiveness, has taken up the cudgel and faced
down a hostile Soviet Union, revived the global economy, rescued NATO, and generally reestablished real American leadership in the world.
The second is related by British analyst David Watt: The other view is shared to a greater or lesser extent
by much of the rest of mankind, with the possible exceptions of the Israelis, the South Africans, President Marcos of
the Philippines and a few right-wing governments in Central and South America. It is that the Reagan Administration has vastly
overreacted to the Soviet threat, thereby distorting the American (and hence the world) economy, quickening the arms race, warping its
own judgment about the events in the Third World, and further debasing the language of international intercourse with feverish rhetoric.
A subsidiary charge, laid principally by the Europeans, Canadians and many Latin Americans, but frequently endorsed in the Arab world
and the Far East, is that in a desperate desire to rediscover “leadership,” the United States under Reagan has reverted
to its worst unilateral habits, resenting and ignoring, when it deigns to notice, the independent views and interests of its
friends and allies.

Ortmayer is an Associate Professor of Political Science.
