14 Friday, March 23, 1984 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, David Resnik, Associate Editors
Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Randy Stroud, Photography Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager
Ross Holt, Editor

A Legal Matter?

The Planning Board’s proposed rezoning has the potential to eviscerate both off-campus fraternities. Neither organization can move back on campus
due to the financial investments they have made in their houses; neither can reconcile at present the discrepancy between their
nationals’ rules and those of the College. Neither can afford the cost or the distance involved in moving elsewhere. Thus,
an endorsement of the new zoning proposal by the Town Council would more than likely mean the effective disbanding of
both organizations.

The situation is exacerbated by the lack of any official line of communication between town and College interests. It appears
that the town and the College are mutually exclusive, that the College has one purpose and the town another. That
is wrong. Davidson is a college town. Its students are not only members of the College community, but are residents
of the town as well. The Town Council must, then, understand that their decision reflects on the relationship between the
town and the students of the College — not just the fraternity members involved. It will say quite a bit
about how town residents view all students.

For better or worse, the two fraternities can only exist off campus, as they have done for the past 10
years. With the exception of the noise problem two years ago, no major conflicts have arisen between the fraternities and
the town. And even the noise problem yielded a compromise that seemed, at least, to placate all involved.

It is to the town council’s credit that, as Mayor MacCormac has made clear, the fraternities will be given a
full and impartial hearing. The fraternities do stand, however, in violation of the law, and it will take a willingness
to compromise on the part of townspeople to allow them to remain. Residents need to present their concerns to the
fraternities in a reasonable and calm way rather than letting unspoken tensions simmer until the destruction of the fraternities is
the only solution. In return, the fraternities must actively seek to work out any problems — not to say they
haven’t been willing to do that all along. All it takes is a little good will and mutual understanding, which
seems, in town anyway, to be in short supply these days.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available
on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: David van Pelt, Boyd Blackburn, Assistant News Editors, Roxanna Guilford, Rand Hartsell, Bob Loper, Frances Palmer, John Ruppenthal,
Tom Schilling, Elizabeth White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Miguel Abreu, Brian Butler, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris

Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Kerry Brown, Hunter Gourley, Scott Huie

Photography Staff: Carroll Overton, Assistant Photography Editor, Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael Dent, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Rocky Kmiecik, Laura McGee, Anderson
Scott, Mike SnellBruce von Stein
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey
Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt
Production Staff: Kevin Horan
Compositors: Lou Hamilton, Anne Lambert, Rob Pool, Debby Williams
Copy Editing: Christine Jackson
Circulation: David McCurry, Manager

And on our left, SGAers, we see the sun rising behind the lovely Chambers building.

Letters

Poet

To the Editors:

I want to thank Brian Butler for his excellent review of Paul Muldoon’s poetry reading. But I'd like to answer
one question Brian asks and correct one error he makes.

First, the question. Brian asks, “Why is this man here?” His implied question seems to be, “How can little ol’
Davidson attract a fine poet like Paul Muldoon?” Brian might better ask, “How has Davidson attracted so many fine writers
in the past two years?” Last winter Richard Kenney, who has since won the most prestigious prize for a young
American poet, the Yale Younger Poets’ Award, read at Davidson. Kenney has published in the New Yorker, Poetry, and the
New England Review, to name three of this country’s finest publications. He is one of the best young poets in
America. Less than two years ago Davidson graduate Charles Wright, one of the best-known names in American poetry, read here
and awarded the Vereen Bell prize. This spring, Dave Smith, another nationally known poet, will read at Davidson and award
the Vereen Bell Prize. That’s an extraordinary group — and there have been others as well.

In fact, Muldoon read at Davidson for two reasons. The Union Literary Arts Committee, headed by outgoing chairman Darryl Cooper
and incoming chairman Lauren Smith, made the reading possible by contributing the necessary funds. Moreover, Darryl and Lauren spent a
great deal of time on a superb publicity campaign that drew an audience of well over 100. And Dillon Johnston,
who runs the Wake Forest University Press Irish Writers series, the most comprehensive publishing outlet for Irish writers in America,
is a friend of Davidson and lives just up the road in Winston. In the future, we can use Johnston
as a resource and attract more of Ireland’s finest writers to Davidson.

Second, the error. Brian states that Muldoon is one of a “young group of poets, the first to emerge from
Ireland since the Age of Yeats.” This is simply untrue. Witness the poetry of Patrick Kavanagh and Seamus Heaney, to
name only two. The tradition of major Irish poets has stretched across the Twentieth Century.

John Engell
Department of English

UnCommon

To the Editors:

Recently, over a lunch during exam week, a professor told me that he felt Vail Commons was doing a good
job as a dining service. He went on to explain that he had heard no complaints since ARA Slater exited
and that no complaints meant good things. True, complaints and criticisms are often needed in certain situations, but so are
the easily forgotten positive reinforcers. (Yes, I’m a psych. major). Well, I want to go beyond not complaining; I want
to compliment. The Commons is far from the days of Richards and Bailey houses, and not just in terms of
the lack of food fights. Ah, I remember back in my day . . . (Yes, I’m a senior). I
have recently been gratefully amazed by the quality and quantity of the food, the efficient service, and even the appearance
of imagination this year at the Commons. Contract students are also
