Friday, October 12, 1984 / The Davidsonian 15

OPINIONS

Reagan Denies Latin America’s Rights

Warren Gould

The United States has blundered in Central America. Under the guise of paternalism, protectionism, and democracy, the United States has brought to her southern neighbors tyranny, terror, and repression. Human rights and freedoms have been exchanged for a facade of stability called imperialism. U.S.-backed authoritarian regimes ignore or violate the rights and needs of the people, and the United States silently approves their actions, secure that capitalism is safe and Marxism is being contained.

But lately (or so the Reagan Administration would have us believe) something has gone wrong in Central America. “Marxist” revolution has been spreading like falling dominoes, from one country to the next: a group of young revolutionaries called the Sandinistas overthrew the U.S.-backed Somoza dictatorship in Nicaragua in 1979; supposedly communist-backed revolutionaries are trying to overthrow the U.S.’s Salvadoran regime, and trouble is brewing in other countries in the region, such as Honduras and Costa Rica.

The source of the trouble is, according to Reagan, obvious. The Soviet Union and Cuba are and have been exporting Marxist revolutionary doctrine and weapons to the region, challenging U.S. supremacy in her own backyard. The solution to the trouble is for Reagan evidently also an obvious one: the Communist threat, whether coming from an established regime such as Nicaragua’s or from such guerilla groups as exist in El Salvador, must be countered with a heavy increase in military aid. Reagan’s objective? To maintain or install status quo, conservative, and obedient “democratic” regimes.

Reagan’s policy overlooks several points. First, the instability and disaffection now present in Central America is not a recent development; its history is a long and depressing one. Second, to refer to all revolution in Central America within the context of an East-West confrontation is to drastically oversimplify and misinterpret the discontent and protest now occurring in that region. Third, the people of Central America, just like the people of the United States, desire the basic freedoms and rights which by nature belong to all human beings; to assume that a conservative upper middle class regime will instigate any major reform for the masses of Central America is to ignore history. And fourth, democracy and capitalism as the United States knows them may not ever be possible, or even the best political and economic alternative, for countries whose citizens have never known an extended peace or a government which did not repress and corrupt the people.

The United States is at present a burden to the people of Central America. She works not for the best interests of the people, but for the best interests of the United States. Herein lies the paradox and the mistake of Reagan’s policy. By ignoring the outcries, and by opposing those forces in the region which are in fact working for a positive reform — by doing this, the United States only repulses Central Americans. They no longer trust us; they look for other sources of aid (i.e. Russia or Cuba) and they consider different political/economic systems. And this, at least in Reagan’s view, is definitely not in the best interests of the United States.

Until Reagan changes his foreign policy (which he undoubtedly will not do), we will continue our blunder in Central America. Watch the Mondale-Reagan foreign policy debate. See how “confused” Reagan is. Realize that Reagan is not the man to give this country a well thought out, realistic foreign policy. Voting Reagan out of office is the only way the United States will truly be able to help the people of Central America.

Gould is a senior English major from Chambersburg, Pa.

JYA Critique Based On Ignorance

Dan Lindsay

I am writing in response to the article entitled “JYA Must Not BeExcuse To Neglect Academics.” Many claims were made in this article, some better supported than others. I will be addressing only one of them — that students participating in JYA “drift away from thoughts of real academic seriousness” so “that little commitment is made.” I spent my junior year abroad in Montpellier, France, so I will deal exclusively with that program. In this way, I can avoid repeating the mistake made by the author of the aforementioned article — speaking out of ignorance. Since Peggy Pierotti and I are both philosophy majors, it is appropriate that I open my statement with a little syllogism, one based upon certain assertions made in Pierotti’s article. Her reasoning runs as follows:

1) The program that she participated in (the classics program) encouraged a lack of academic devotion on the part of the students involved.
2) Davidson’s JYA programs and the classics program must be of a similar nature, as all are programs of study abroad.
3) (Conclusion) Students participating in JYA programs lack academic devotion.

In philosophic circles, we say that this syllogism is valid but unsound. That is, the conclusion would follow if the premises were true, but one of them happens not to be true, namely the second one. To be fair, Pierotti does acknowledge the difference between the classics program and JYA: the latter requires that its participants develop native contacts and (in the cases of France, Germany, and Spain) learn the native language. Yet she fails to appreciate the implications of these differences. In other words, learning the French language and developing relationships with French students, professors, and others, are academic endeavors. What, cry the philologists — academic formation consists of reading and studying and of nothing else! Well, Mr. Webster begs to differ: he asserts that the term “academic” means “having to do with general or liberal rather than technical or vocational education.”

I frankly admit that I now spend more hours per day studying than I did in Montpellier. But I also assert that in France each day’s activities — whether commonplace tasks or full-blown adventures — were unique learning experiences. I cannot say that about my life at Davidson. I also know that three and a half hours of discussing politics in French drained me more than any Davidson final exam ever has. Finally, I know of no Davidson classroom assignment that could challenge me as much as a certain one that I had in France: an oral presentation given (in French, of course) to a class of over one hundred French students.

I assure you, readers, that the language/culture barrier is real: to overcome that barrier would be all but impossible if one were to struggle with a Davidson-style workload as well. In addition, the living conditions of certain students exclude the possibility of such a time commitment. One student in our program was an au pair “father,” and he could never have fulfilled his familial obligations and developed an authentic relationship with his French family if he had been supporting a Davidson workload.

To summarize, my year abroad contributed to my academic formation in a way that Davidson academia could never do. It just wouldn't make sense to export the Davidson way of doing things to Montpellier, France. As I have stated, the language and culture barriers make up for the lighter workload in a very real and very challenging way. Moreover, for an American in Montpellier, the opportunities for learning are more often found at the flea market, local bar, theater, or department store than in the library.

In closing, I must say that Pierotti is not one hundred percent wrong: I admit that there is room for improvement in the JYA-France program. But the sort of restructuring that Pierotti seems to suggest is neither feasible nor desirable. Junior Year Abroad is not (nor should it be) Davidson College Abroad. So, for all of you out there who think that JYA is a program for “intellectual fools,” think again. Such beliefs are based upon ignorance, and ignorance is what makes for intellectual foolishness.

Lindsey is a senior from Dunwoody, Ga.