Friday, February 3, 1984 / The Davidsonian

OPINIONS

Statement Should Be Preached, Not Practiced

David Resnik

I am writing in response to an opinions article written by Dick Lee which appeared in the Jan. 20 Davidsonian.
Lee defends a sectarian chapel hour on the grounds that it will help the school live up to its Statement
of Purpose as defined in the Preamble of the College Constitution. Lee would like to see “more consistency between the
Statement of Purpose and the practice of it.” Toward the end of his article he remarks that he views “the
writers of the Statement of Purpose desiring that Davidson College be analogous to the Church of Ephesus.”

The opinions that Lee expressed, though written with good intent, have dangerous implications. The view he puts forth would eventually
lead to the very institutionalized repression that Davidson must avoid. The Statement of Purpose should not be followed word for
word; it was meant to be preached, not practiced. Just look at this glaring passage from the Statement of Purpose:

Davidson recognizes God as the source of all truth. As a college committed to the historic Christian faith, it sees
Jesus Christ as the central fact of history, giving purpose, order and value to the whole life.

How could any modern liberal arts college live up to these words? If the school sincerely believes this dogma, then
what’s the point in teaching Buddhism, Hinduism, or world religions? What's the point in teaching quantum physics, metaethics, or linear
algebra, for that matter? You might as well turn Davidson into a giant Sunday school and order a new shipment
of Bibles.

History will not forget the last time Davidson's Statement of Purpose interfered with its academics. It was April 1977. President
Emeritus Samuel Spencer rescinded a job offer to a Jewish political science professor because he indicated his objections to the
College's policy of hiring based on non-academic standards like Christian commitment. The professor, Ronald Linden, had been unanimously approved by
the political science department out of a field of 190 applicants. Over 300 students and 20 professors boycotted Spring Convocation
in protest of Spencer’s decision.

The American Association of University Professors found out about the decision. Soon the story made national headlines. The Charlotte Observer,
The Washington Post, The New York Times, The Philadelphia Enquirer, and NBC news covered the story. But this was not
the kind of publicity that one would associate with Zubin Mehta or the basketball team. This was the kind of
publicity that made Hitler famous — the press perceived the decision as a clear-cut case of anti-Semitism.

As a result of this controversy, the College moderated its position on the Christian commitment of faculty members. According to
Davidson’s current Trustee By-Laws, the President may recommend for appointment Christian men and women as well as those who can
“work with respect for the Christian tradition even if they cannot conscientiously join it, and who can live in harmony
with the purpose and policies of the College as set forth in the Davidson Constitution.” The Christian commitment requirement used
to be even more stringent; the original By-Laws required that the College hire only Christian scholars.

Obviously, the chapel hour will never make the national news. But the Linden case shows how Davidson has had to
set limits on the practice of its Christian ideals. Christian commitment is important, but not to the exclusion of academics.

I agree with Lee’s desire to unite the community, and I feel that the chapel hour would be a fine
“tool for community building.” But I do not agree with his desire to make the chapel hour sectarian. In the
last paragraph of his article Lee makes the following conditional claim: “If Davidson College wishes to remain true to its
Statement of Purpose, the chapel hour need be sectarian.” But a strict reading of the Statement of Purpose would be
inappropriate in this case. As history reminds us, the College must sometimes sacrifice its Christian ideals.

A sectarian chapel hour would not unite the community because it would exclude those that cannot worship as Protestants. If
the chapel hour is to unite us at all, it must be open to all students. I would favor a
chapel hour that acts as a forum for the free discussion of religion rather than one that caters to any
particular sect. The Davidson Christian Fellowship has failed to unite the school, in part because of its spiritual closed-mindedness. Davidson's
founders may have intended the school to resemble the church.of Ephesus, but this is no excuse to revert to the
past. The world has changed a great deal since 1837, and so has Davidson. As a practical guide for administrative
decisions, the Statement of Purpose is an outmoded relic. But as an outline of Christian ideals, it is still useful.
Resnik is a junior philosophy major from Chapel Hill, N.C., and is Executive Editor of The Davidsonian.

A Deficiency In Fairness
David McGee

Whenever someone starts talking about capital punishment, I always recall the stand columnist James Kilpatrick took several years ago. In
one of his columns, he admitted that he had seen the light and now favored capital punishment. His conversion had
resulted from an experience in a car-park in a busy city. A hardened criminal of some sort—raised in a depraved
environment no doubt—approached Kilpatrick and asked him, at gun-point, for his wallet and watch. Outraged, Kilpatrick wanted fair compensation. His
assailant, though never caught, should receive nothing less than the electric chair, Kilpatrick declared.

Kilpatrick’s almost humorous account of why he supports capital punishment points toward the reasoning of many who favor it. Often
appeals supporting capital punishment result from pent-up anger toward the crime itself and the system of justice created to deal
with it. Steve Shriver’s article “Simple Retribution” (The Davidsonian, Jan. 20) is a good example. Shriver states: “If a man
murders, he should know that his fate will be execution, not two years and time off for good behavior. If
a man violently rapes a woman, then he ought to realize that he will suffer death at the hands of
the society he has offended.” (Shriver also says that violent crimes should be punished with the severity of the crime.
Is he suggesting that rapists—as a part of their punishment—should in turn be raped? Probably not. But isn't that what
the rationale for “simple retribution” does with capital punishment?)

If capital punishment serves as society's punching bag for its frustration, then there is a real danger here. The aftermath
of the killings of 25 black children in Atlanta four years ago shows how easily we appease our feelings of
anger towards murder. The intense anxiety so prevalent in the several months the investigation dragged on disappeared immediately when Wayne
Williams was arrested and charged in connection with the killings. Although he was convicted of only two of the murders,
his guilt seemed to suffice for all the others. Thus what we think and feel may not meet some higher
standard of justice.

For those who believe that a murderer receives a death sentence for what he or she did, consider this observation.
What kind of jury decided the defendant's guilt or innocence, the quality of their defense, and who the victim was
play a greater part in the defendant's entry onto death row. During jury selection for a crime which carries the
death penalty, most courts exclude candidates who oppose capital punishment. Recently, U.S. District Court Judge James McMillan ruled that such
a practice is unconstitutional because it interferes with the defendant’s right to a fair trial with an impartial jury. He
cited several studies which show that such a practice produces juries that are more likely to hand down a death
sentence.

Of the more than 1,000 persons on death row, most come from low-income groups and have little education. James Hutchins,
who is scheduled to die in North Carolina in March, never finished high school. Doubtless, low incomes don’t attract the
best lawyers. Race is another factor. A study in Crime and Delinquency (Oct. 1980) stated that of blacks in Florida,
“those who kill whites are nearly 40 times more likely to be sentenced to death than those who kill blacks.”
Yet, it is ironic that our courts strive to protect the rights of a suspected murderer who showed no concern
(an understatement) for the rights of the victim. But for those on death row, or formerly there, like Earl Charles,
who spent three years on death row before he was proven innocent, the practice of capital punishment suffers from a
deficiency in fairness which the Bill of Rights guarantees: “No person shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without
due process of law.”

McGee is a junior economics major from Winston-Salem, N.C., and is Assistant News Editor of The Davidsonian.
