8 Friday, February 3, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Street Hockey, Old Men, And Warner Hall
By HUNTER GOURLEY

I knew the Old Men were for real when Rye barely defeated them in an IMAC basketball season opener. But street hockey? I’ve never taken southern hockey seriously — at least not since the Flames skipped town and left the burning of Atlanta to General W.T. Sherman. Anyway, the outdoor b-ball courts swarmed with semi-intense ball-playing, sun-worshipping fanatics during last week’s late January heat wave. That is, until some joker rolled a little, round ball — puck? — onto the court and stopped a team’s fast break. Then all hell broke loose: a hockey match was scheduled for play on that hot, January afternoon. It was a bad week for snow skiing. Two hockey matches deserve mention, largely because they were not forfeitures. The Sponges, led by hard-flicking Tim “Gretz” McGaughey, iced an easy victory over the Nuns of Destruction, 11-1. In other league play, Wally Worlders took Eddie Shore to the nets in a 10-3 contest.

Basketball
Meanwhile, inside Johnston Gym, the Old Men bounced back from one of their truly deserved losses — to the talented Breeze, 60-46 — and beat Champagne Jam by 10 points, 56-46. Codgers’ Krentz, Kazee, and Slagle combined for 30 points. Charlie’s Chaps edged Pony Express.

From The Locker Room
Hussey’s Three Goals
By STEVE SOUD

When Bobby Hussey arrived at Davidson in the turbulent spring of 1981, he established several goals. The first was to provide stability to a foundering program. The second was to bring in a better caliber of player. The final, and most important goal, was to win the Southern Conference and gain entrance to the NCAA tournament. In his first year, Hussey provided a measure of stability by leading a team picked to finish 5-22 to a 14-15 record and the finals of the SC tournament. That same spring, he announced the signing of an outstanding recruiting class. He augmented that this year with some fine players. With the first two steps of The Plan apparently taken care of, the third would seem to be forthcoming. In fact, the final goal is within the foreseeable future. This year the Southern Conference is more balanced than ever. Witness Western Carolina defeating nationally recognized UT-C and then losing to infamous VMI in a matter of days. A first-division finish is within Davidson’s reach. Part of The Plan is the crucial five-game homestand that will begin Feb. 16 with Appalachian State and end on the 27th with Western Carolina. Part One works in direct conjunction with Part Two. Part Two revolves around the maturation of a young team. Across the past several games sophomores Pepper Bego, Gerry Born, and Jim McConkey have begun to assert themselves. No longer is Kenny Wilson the lone scoring threat, although he remains the most potent. Moreover, freshman Chris Heineman has entrenched himself at the point guard position. This provides a solid, youthful foundation for years to come. Part Three was announced a couple of weeks ago: Davidson has at last signed a “blue-chipper.” Terry Rupp hails from Tampa, Florida, where, at Jesuit High School, he is averaging 36 ppg and 14.7 rpg. He was All-Florida as a junior and Street & Smith Honorable Mention All-America. In addition, Rupp will likely be a pro baseball draft choice in the spring. (Rupp will also play baseball for the Wildcats.) This is not to advise buying tickets to see Davidson in the NCAAs in Charlotte. Rather, it points out that some progress is being made in the overall machinations of Davidson basketball. But several bugs are yet to be worked out: the team must start to do consistently the things winning teams do in close games; there needs to be better definition of player roles; the team must establish itself early in the game instead of having to play 38-40 minutes of catch-up; the team must take advantage of potential blowout situations. But these are matters easily worked out. The Southern Conference season is still young; there remain 9 games in this regular season (and many more in seasons to come). Hussey and his assistants have established a strong foundation with which to work. The rest remains for the future. Enjoy it, underclassmen.

Wrestlers Now 4-4
By KERRY BROWN

VinceArduini’s description of his 1984 wrestling squad could easily be mistaken as a description of Arthur and the knights of the Round Table. Unlike the knights from Camelot, Arduini and his “goal-oriented” grapplers aren't searching for the Holy Grail. Instead, the Wildcat grapplers’ quest is for a winning season, and winning is certainly what the Cats have been doing. Davidson recently slew North Carolina A & T and Furman in a tri-match, and the young talented group moved one step closer to their season goal by improving their record to 4-4. With this behind them, Arduini and his fighting grapplers shall have to win four of their remaining seven matches to attain their winning season goal, and as Arduini says, “the future is promising.”

The Wildcats needed a bit of charity to defeat North Carolina A & T as Mike Adams and Tom Cardwell won by forfeit, and improved their individual records to 8-5 and 4-8-1. John Lay, who earlier won first place in the 142-pound category of the Washington and Lee Tournament, corralled Glover Ford and captured a 7-1 victory. John Breidenstine gained a victory by disqualification, and Tom Hissam, who was voted Most Valuable Player in the Washington & Lee Tournament, ended Willie Woodall’s bid to give North Carolina A & T a possible victory by pinning Woodall in 6:38. But the duel between Arduini’s grapplers and North Carolina A & T wasn’t determined on the battlefield of the mat. Instead, the King’s men gained a victory because of the deduction of a point due to misconduct.

After the Cats barely defeated a tough North Carolina A & T squad, they found themselves faced with the challenge of disposing of the Furman Paladins. Though Mike Adams and Tom Cardwell lost by decision, the grapplers seemed to have a we-can’t-lose attitude, and John Lay, Tom Hissam, and Brian Rice pinned their opponents for key victories. Taylor Simpson, John Breidenstine, and Mike Keeley gained victories by forfeiture.

The Davidsonian will print free valentine messages next week. Please leave all submissions at the Union desk.

The KA’s Court continued to reign supreme — regrouping after a bitter Saturday night loss — first by beating the Williams-Brandon led Hard to Swallow, 55-50; then revenging themselves upon the Delts, in an unmerciful 82-36 slaughter. B-League play produced a handful of close, hard-fought games. Mooresville Walkers, the Stiffs, Starcade, and Woody’s Peckers all earned victories against evenly matched opponents. No game was won by more than a seven-point margin. Noteworthy scoring efforts were performed by Matt Merrell who hit for 17 points for the losing Fiends, Starcade’s Dave Flowers with 21 points, Jay Poag’s 13 baskets in a Force smear over the Accidents, and finally Tyler Long’s 25-point game for the losing 69’ers.

It being Celebrate Women Week, I’ve saved the best for last. Warner Hall continues to dominate Women’s League play. They remain undefeated. Leading scorers Becca Bates, Annie Porges, and Shelly Lineberger have combined to outscore their opponents by an average 2-1 margin in almost every game. The Hall defeated Sisters, Inc. 28-12, the Lusters 64-16, and the Mothers 26-11. Rusk, the other league powerhouse, trounced Fourth Little by 43 points with Jan Withers hailing 21 of her team’s 57 total points. There were some close games, too. Rusk’s Lusters squeaked out a one-point victory over the Mothers. Rusk battled head-to-head with the Sisters, finally pulling out to win at the buzzer, 27-23. Twice as Nice, fearing a possible Luster win streak — or back-to-back victories — took it upon themselves to stop the streak. Nice, led by Tricia Ives’s 12 points, beat the almost cocky Lusters, 24-17.

The LBJ School of Public Affairs at The University of Texas at Austin emphasizes public policy analysis, interdisciplinary research and summer internships in government agencies in its graduate programs:
— Master's Degree in Public Affairs
— Joint Degrees Program with the UT Law School
— Joint Degrees Program with the UT College of Engineering
— Joint Degrees Program with the UT Graduate School of Business

Financial aid and fellowships are available based on merit.

MEET WITH A REPRESENTATIVE AT:
The Davidson College Careers Office
February 8, 1984
9:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.