2 Friday, April 27, 1984 / The Davidsonian

RACE Committee To Hold Forum

The Race Awareness Concerns Everyone committee will conduct a forum on the security problem of black students Thursday in the 900 Room at 7 p.m. According to committee Chairman Doug Ammar, the forum will focus on the problems black students face in relation to campus police. “A lot of black students get stopped on and off campus and get asked to show their student I.D.’s,” he said. According to Ammar, such an action by police officers is illegal unless they have reason to suspect an offense. “We have a big problem with this,” Ammar said, “It’s something a lot of white people here are not aware of.”

Participants in the forum will include Davidson Mayor Nancy MacCormac, police chiefs Jack Warlick and Jack Hughes, Dean of Students Will Terry, several students who have been stopped by police, and political science Professor Mary Thornberry. All students are invited. To publicize the discussion, the RACE Committee will organize its own student security force to patrol the campus. “It’s more than publicity,” said Ammar. “It’s an effort to have people really understand what’s going on.”

Students Injured In Laurinburg Accident

Seniors Amy Ashworth, Meg McArn, and Lynne Folcer were injured when their Volkswagen flipped into a ditch on Thursday, May 19, on the way to Sunset Beach, NC. McArn and Folcer returned to school Monday night after treatment in Laurinburg, NC, about 75 miles east of Davidson, where the accident occurred. Ashworth, who suffered a broken pelvis, was flown to a hospital in Richmond, Virginia, her hometown. She was scheduled to leave the hospital this week and will return to school before graduation, said one senior who witnessed the accident.

The accident occurred shortly after a stop in Laurinburg at approximately 6 p.m., according to the witness. She said McArn’s Volkswagen strayed off the right side of the road. When McArn attempted to bring the wheels back onto the rain-slickened road, the car started to spin and skidded off the left side of the road, flipping lengthwise. According to the witness, McArn had been traveling at approximately 50 mph in a 55 mph zone. “Meg didn’t get a ticket. The police ruled it an accident,” she said. Firetrucks and several rescue vehicles arrived, and rescue workers released McArn, who was pinned in the car. She suffered a broken neck and will wear a neck brace for 3 months. She also received a cut on her head requiring 26 stitches. Ashworth was flown to Richmond for treatment. Folcer received whiplash and minor injuries.

Phi Society Elects Officers

Last Sunday, the Philanthropic Literary Society elected its officers for the 1984-85 school year. They are: Stuart King, president; Carolyn Meier, vice-president; John David Ramsey, secretary; John Endler, treasurer; David Sisk, first supervisor; Nathan Caldwell, second supervisor; Meg Suratt, first critic; Ansley Moses, second critic; and Russell Bitter and Howie Moyes, agents.

Religion Professor Speaks On Indian Lore

“Demonic Women and Treacherous Wives in Ancient Indian Folklore” is the title of the Speakers Committee’s spring lecture by Dr. Wendy O'Flaherty, professor of the History of Religions at the University of Chicago Divinity School. Author of numerous books and articles, O'Flaherty will discuss her latest work concerning a Sanskrit text and ritual generally ignored by scholars, dated at 900 BC. The traditional priestly ritual is permeated by folktales: “quite emotional, violent folktales including dangerous forms of sexuality and murders by family members,” says O’Flaherty. O'Flaherty asserts that the ritual and the folktales are linked and harken back “to the fork in the road where dreams, rituals, and folktales were related.”

NEWS SUMMARY

O’Flaherty is considered one of the world’s foremost historians of religions. In addition to receiving Ph.D.’s from Harvard and Oxford, O’Flaherty serves as President-elect of the American Academy of Religion and as editor of the...Journal History of Religions. She is currently translating and editing the Dictionnaire de Mythologies, a French survey of world mythologies. Awarded the prestigious Guggenheim fellowship in 1980-81, O’Flaherty spent the year researching and writing her two latest works, both concerning religious expression and fantasy. O’Flaherty’s fascination with India studies is not restricted solely to academia. Before studying physics, mathematics, and Sanskrit at Radcliffe College in New York, O’Flaherty danced with the renowned Martha Graham dance company. O’Flaherty has also written a libretto for an opera based on a Hindu myth, entitled The Marriage of Shiva, related to her Harvard doctoral dissertation and first book Asceticism and Eroticism in the Mythology of Shiva. During her tenure at the University of London’s School of Oriental and African Studies, O’Flaherty published a children’s book on India and mythology entitled The River Ganges.

The lecture will be held Tuesday evening, May 1, at 8:00 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union. Immediately following the lecture, a reception will be held in the Morrison Room of the College Union.

Mock Elections May Be Cancelled

The mock presidential elections scheduled for May 8 may not be held. They are to be run jointly by the College Democrats and Republicans, and endorsed by the SGA. The reasons behind the possible cancellation are, according to the head of the College Republicans, junior Tony Holt, lack of interest by the student body due to the nearing end of the school year. A member of the Young Democrats, senior Harriet Gaston, said her group was probably going to pull out. She cited as reasons, the fact that all candidates, Reagan, Mondale, Hart, and Jackson would be treated equally. According to their leader, junior Bill Harmon, the Democrats would prefer to have it moved to November when each party would have only one candidate. Republican freshman Russel Bitter is pressing to hold the election, even if only his party runs it. Bitter said, “I definitely plan to go through with the election.”

Board Of Visitors To Meet On Campus

The Davidson College Board of Visitors will convene May 4 for its 28th annual meeting, with the theme “A Global Emphasis for the ’80s.” Activities will include panel discussions, the introduction of 18 new board members, and a dinner with Davidson’s president-elect, Dr. John W. Kuykendall, ’59. A panel discussion, “The Urgency of Improved International Awareness,” will be held in the Gallery of Chambers Building at 10:30 a.m. Participants will include James B. Henderson, executive vice president of Shell Oil Co., and John C. West, former ambassador to Saudi Arabia. The board’s Chairman, R. Stuart Dickson II of Charlotte will preside. Following the panel discussion, Barrington H. Branch, executive vice president of Vantage Southeast Property Co., will discuss “How A College Can Help: A Dream for Davidson.” A 3:30 p.m. panel discussion, “Davidson Moves Toward Greater International Involvement,” will be held in the Thurman Room of Martin Chemical Laboratory. Participants will include Economics Professor Charles Ratliff; French Professor Homer B. Sutton, coordinator of international education; senior Hunter K. Monroe; and senior Stephanie H. Moffett. Vice-President for Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty T.C. Price Zimmerman will moderate.

Donley Painting Exhibit Opens In Cunningham

An exhibition of recent paintings and prints by senior Pat Donley will open today in Cunningham Fine Arts Building at Davidson College. The formal opening will be held from 5 to 7 p.m. The exhibition will remain on display through May 27.

AMERICARE COMPUTERS

Printers and Disk Drives Repaired
Service Contracts
This ad is worth $15 towards Repair or Service Contract. (Offer ends May 31, 1984)
Xerox Service Center
2900 I-85 South
Charlotte, NC 28208
(704) 399-1623

Order in advance—
Wine & Beer by the case: Cost plus 10%
Keg beer: Cost plus 10%
Trisey Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St. - Davidson, N.C. 28036
892-7521