Friday, April 13, 1984 / The Davidsonian 5

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Prichard, Gourmet Society Spare No Expense

By MIKE STEPHENS

Certificate awarded to: Founding Member of the Davidson Gourmet Society, first annual dinner on this 11th day of April, 1984.

Thus read the slip of paper handed to each of 130 faculty, students, and friends of Davidson College after the successful navigation of the first Davidson Gourmet Society dining affair. In a word, it was glorious.

After walking into hum-drum Vail Commons day after day for the baked chicken and baked flounder, to which all who hold food service meal cards have become accustomed, the world of the Davidson Gourmet Society could best be compared to a stroll into the Twilight Zone. The mysterious white tablecloths which so often adorn the west wing of the Commons came alive in a new and exciting fashion. The candlelight danced to the sound of accordion and violin. When one descended those ever-familiar stairs, he or she was no longer greeted by a seated employee who wished only to cross another “D” off a meal card, but was received by a smiling host and greeted with a sparkling glass of champagne.

The Society spared no expense. Even the little lights in the Commons trees were shining. The atmosphere buzzed with talk that would have made any Muffy or Bif squeal with glee. The white-clad service crew who wandered amongst the professors and students seemed really pleased to be able to direct any who wished to the Melba toast and Paté which awaited on a beautifully decorated table. The mingling was at its height when the gathering was addressed and asked to be seated for the start of what was to be an adventure in good eating.

With the ring of a wine glass and a short grace by Dean of Students Will Terry, it was on to the meal. Seated at those white-draped tables, one was compelled to speak of one’s country club and one’s beach cottage. Gourmets enjoy a lavish meal. The broth served as an appetizer was excellent. It served as a welcome complement to the warm bread loaves offered alongside. An appealing mixture of meat stock and tomato, it provided the perfect preparation for the main course which was to follow.

With taste buds ready to experience anything and minds cynically looking for the worst (due to the false promises of the food service affairs that most had previously attended), the food arrived. The trout, lightly seasoned, but not overpowered, was basted in butter and cooked to perfection. It was a delicate fillet which readily melted in one’s mouth, as fish is often loath to do. Three vegetable dishes were served with the fish: a truly surprising rendering of zucchini, which added a bit of zip to the meal, an old culinary stand-by, broccoli and cauliflower in cheese sauce, and a few tender, young carrots as an edible garnish to the fish. Each was superb. The zucchini, evidently mixed with a small bit of tomato, was especially good.

Progressing from the main course could be nothing but anti-climactic.

Next on the fare was a light salad of lettuce and delicate dressing, so as not to confuse the palate. The lettuce was fresh and crisp, without a hint of age or over-refrigeration. The salad was followed by a crepe filled with cream cheese and smothered in cherries. The pastry offered just enough resistance to the sweetness of the cherries as not to fill the mouth with a sugary taste. Dessert preceded a plate of three cheeses and an accompanying plate of sweet fruits containing slices of orange, pear, and apple with both green and purple grapes. A fitting end to a fine meal.

The wine list contained champagne, a white wine to accompany the fish, and a red wine to finish out the meal. A student attending the function described the wines as follows. Of the champagne, he said, “A bit dry but of good quality.” To the white, “An excellent complement to the fish. A good, dry French wine.” The red wine, the lesser of the three, was described as “a bit bland, but good with the cheese and sweet fruit.” Another student was heard to call it “frivolous and reckless, but at the same time cautious and hesitating.” No one was ready to compare any of the trio to the lesser quality wines which have graced the campus on earlier occasions.

The total dining time was slightly over two hours, and those serving the meal were both courteous and efficient. That desired glass of water was always present, and dishes not needed vanished as if they had never been present. One could not hope for better-attended service anywhere. Carlton Pritchard outdid himself. Hats off to all who helped make the first and founding meal of the Davidson Gourmet Society a resounding success. The food was excellent, the service superb and above all, it was fun. Here’s to many more.Hoping the next outing of the new Gourmet Society is as successful.

Smith’s Poetry Finds Meaning In The World
By BRIAN BUTLER

Of course, it is absurd to think that poetry can make a dent in the way people think about things when Robert Penn Warren can walk into a classroom full of high school kids and be mistaken for the milkman, when people like Starsky and Hutch still get all the attention. Dave Smith, despite this, believes that poetry makes a definite moral statement, and he feels himself in direct rebellion against what he called in an interview with H.A. Maxson the “nihilistic,” “existential,” or “relativistic” point of view. He said:

“. . . if everything has an explicable cause and effect in sociological or physiological, or naturalistic or psychological terms, then nothing is meaningful. It is only explainable; it lacks the halo of mystery which is the unknown trying to be known. If everything is relative, then nothing can be more meaningful than anything else — excellence, discrimination, and quality included. And the ultimate response to that is, nothing means anything.

“But I suppose that the one way I think of myself as different than other contemporary writers, not all, but some, is that I think the world is meaningful. And beyond that, I think the world is good, in spite of the fact that it’s hideous in many ways. I don’t mean that God’s in his heaven and all’s right in the outhouse, but I do mean that there is something that makes me glad to get up in the morning.”

He also said “the health of our society may depend on our poets.” He evidently thinks that, if poetry cannot affect everyone directly (and how can it when a poetry book that sells 2000 copies is considered a great success), that it affects those who affect larger groups of people.

One of the more prevalent themes in Smith’s poetry is just this problem: can words do any good? One of the many possible examples, “The Roundhouse Voices” from Goshawk, Antelope (1979), creates a speaker who reaches for words of past and present to give his life meaning, but the more he grasps, the further he slips away:

All day I have held your hand, trying to say back that life, to get under that fence with words I lined and linked up and steamed into a cold room where the illusion of hope means skin torn in boxes of tools. The footsteps come pounding into words and even the finger I give death is words that won't let us be what we wanted, each one chasing and being chased by dreams in a dark place. Words are all we ever were and they did us no damn good. Do you hear that?

If not for that last line that makes clear just how loud words can be, especially when we have lost faith in them, one might think the speaker is Dave Smith. A passage which bears the mark of the “real” Dave Smith’s estimation of word’s power might be found in “Driving Home In The Breaking Season,” from Cumberland Station (1976):

Poetry, who watches you easing out along a timber stand, as I do, dreaming the feel of trunk bark, cradling the insults to God? To wake up glad by a field alive with more than words, the dead singing our wars remembered and unremembered is to love your life and give it a way to rejoice. Isn’t home the same everywhere, the open room of the sea, your hands slippery with all the fish the fathers haul in their nets? Damn death. Today I do not believe a single sparrow will die but I will croak back his life.

The beauty of this poem lies in the inextricability of image from idea. He seems in one reading to be raving about ecstasy, in another to be using images as illustrations for concepts, and in another to treat concepts as fish or tree bark; they feel good. In this way, Smith’s poetry is effective. His habit, like that of all good poets, is to connect things, and by catching one up in the connectedness of the muse of poesy (song) he links together the physical and obvious with the nebulous yet essential. His images are not erudite, his allusions to mythology few. His trademark, that which has gotten him nominated for the Pulitzer, twice, is probably his reverent joy for life and the tendency of his poems to outrun the poet’s plan in excitement, like a young dog, out for a walk with his master. Smith’s puppies always find their way home, though they often get soaked in life’s mud of poverty, death, and violence.

Smith is a major figure in American poetry right now; his poems have appeared in The New Yorker. He will speak at the Open Luncheon next Wednesday, meet with student writers in the afternoon, and present the Vereen Bell Writing Awards in the evening, reading from his work afterward.