Friday, March 23, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Athletes Add Diversity To College
Russ West And Bob Letton

A great debate has begun on campus as to the importance of athletes to Davidson College. The faculty have expressed their feelings, the students theirs also, yet no one has expressed the views of those who would be affected the most — the athletes themselves. Since we are student-athletes, we would like to defend our position, and being football players, we feel it needs to be defended the most.

The Davidson Athletic Survey was recently given to faculty members and students, with 81 faculty and 239 students responding. (Did anyone ever question the validity with such a poor student turnout?) In it, 80% of the faculty and 59% of the students reported that they felt football was overemphasized. The faculty suggested that too much money is spent on football. If they check the figures, they will find we spend less than any of the teams we are now playing. It was suggested playing schools of similar academic standards. Just how much money do you think it would take to travel up North every weekend to play the Ivy League schools? Furthermore, it was suggested that the basketball team has unrealistic goals of competing in the NCAA. If we were ranked in the top ten before, then who’s to say it can’t happen again? We believe it can.

Another area of concern is that with the rigorous academic requirements, the athletes are at a disadvantage. Granted, practice takes time and energy, but most of the athletes we are associated with are getting the job done and attaining a degree of success. Many are accepted year after year into graduate schools and find themselves relatively successful in their jobs. We like the challenge that being a student-athlete presents to us at Davidson College.

Along those same lines, many of the faculty feel that by increasing recruiting in order to be more competitive, the quality of students will go down. We thought that the stereotyping of athletes who can’t even spell their own names had ended long ago, but apparently Davidson is still behind the times and can’t accept the fact that many athletes are as intelligent as the student population at large.

Perhaps an even greater question that should be addressed is how all of these proposed changes affect the very essence of this school. Or as the faculty puts it: “What purpose do athletics serve at Davidson?” When applying for admission to Davidson (yes, we had to be accepted), we were told that the College was a blend of many diversified personalities. Through our interaction with student-athletes and student non-athletes, we don’t see how anyone can diminish athletic participation without hindering the quality of life here at Davidson. Without athletes, Davidson College would consist of mostly upper-middle-class Caucasian students. At the beginning of this school year, 50% of Davidson’s black population played either basketball or football. How would it look if the size of the black population were any lower than it already is? Many of the athletes are from varied backgrounds and we feel that athletics are necessary for Davidson to remain a truly diversified environment.

Our athletes represent not only the individuals and the coaches but Davidson College as well. Whenever we set foot on the field, we are not just a few individuals competing, but Davidson College putting its reputation on the line. A lot of the student population doesn’t realize this, as can often be inferred when someone says, “Oh, they lost again!” When will people realize that we're all in this together and try to support us rather than cut us down? Intramurals are great, but stepping onto a flickerball field with your friends is just not the same as laying your reputation on the line week in and week out during the fall with football.

This article has no intention of proposing a solution; maybe we should have tried. But we, the athletes, feel that it is high time someone recognized our individual effort and sacrifice for the good of the community, rather than trying to tell us we “detract from the College’s purpose.”

Letton is a junior Pre-Med major from Mt. Sterling, KY. West is a sophomore economics major from Roswell, GA.

...provided with outstanding special features such as thematic dinners (Chinese New Year, French Café, Mediterranean Evening, Christmas Feast, etc.), study nights and breaks during exams, and the opportunity to invite a prof down to lunch free of charge. Creating an enjoyable and comfortable atmosphere, the Commons has become a place to eat while also relaxing, discussing, reading, and even reflecting over possible...Letters to the Editors

Many thanks to Mr. Pritchard, Ms. Junkin, and the whole dining service for a job well done.

Gould Endorsed

To the editors:

In the next year, Davidson College will face a variety of new and important challenges. Some of these include: the arrival of President Kuykendall, the resolution of our campus security problem, the continued efforts toward racial awareness, the re-assessment of Davidson’s athletic emphasis, and especially the continuation of increasing student input. The SGA president will have the opportunity and the responsibility of dealing with each of these questions. Thus, it is crucial that the next SGA president have leadership skills and a proven record in dealing with campus issues.

Over the past three years, Warren Gould has exhibited these qualities as a class senator. In addition to serving as class senator, Warren’s other responsibilities have included:
— Junior Class Co-President.
— Chairman of the Patterson Court Study Committee, which generated a reformed self-selection process.
— Member of the Presidential Advisory Paper Committee that will present a report of student organizations and opinions to President Kuykendall this spring.
— Member of the Student Conduct Council.
— Member of the Student Executive Council.

Warren Gould has been a very conscientious and well-respected member of Davidson’s student government. His leadership has been effective and has led to numerous positive results. Therefore, because we feel that Warren Gould has outstanding credentials and accomplishments, we strongly support his candidacy for SGA President.

Edward L. Hay, Jr.
John Allen Mast, Jr.
Pat M. Woodward, Jr.
Jeffery Mann
Ross Holt
Paula Miller
Anne Elliot
Annie Porges

Laughlin Endorsed

To the Editors:

The coming school year will be a truly important one for Davidson College. This institution will have a new president to guide it, and thus a new era will arrive as he begins his term here. In order for the students of the college to have significant input into the decisions of the new president, the next SGA president must be keenly aware of issues which concern the students, and must have the ability to present the views of the student body so that their concerns will be addressed by the president, the Trustees, and the Faculty. The SGA president must be well-organized and have true leadership capabilities so that the voice of the students will be heard.

We believe that John Laughlin has these qualities. During his term as Co-President of the Junior Class, he has shown that he cares about the role of students in the decision-making process of the college, serving on the Semester Implementation, Faculty Evaluation, and Presidential Advisory Paper committees. He has shown his leadership and organizational skills through his duties as co-chairman of the SGA Phonathon and as a freshman Hall Counselor. We believe that he will bring commitment and dedication to the office of SGA president, and will best serve the college and his peers for the coming year. We hereby endorse the candidacy of John Laughlin for SGA president.

T. Hartley Hall V
Rob Spaugh
Paige Marsh
Bobby Silver
Mark Sandy
Ed Lilly
Ellen Papadeas
Jack Cobb
Trip Caldwell
Robert Bradford
Thomas Evans
Nancy Rosselot
Grady H. Smith
Ed Henderson

Bingo!

To the editors:

Re the Matt Morris review of Tender Mercies in the March 16 Davidsonian: “Bingo” you might say. Give the man a raise.

James Rozzelle

Congratulations

To the Editors:

Congratulations on an excellent first issue. It was the best first issue I’ve seen done by any editors. Of course, you still have a year ahead of you in which to improve — I look forward to the results. Keep up the good work and try to make a few Friday classes.

-David B. Resnik

Editor's note: Resnik is an editor emeritus of The Davidsonian.