8 Friday, January 27, 1984 / The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Cats Take Citadel; Lose To UT-C, Notre Dame

Fighting Irish Edge Wildcats In OT

Heineman And Hustleball Lead Davidson In Win Over Bulldogs

By STEVE BYERS

Coach Hal Wissel and his “Hustleball” philosophy at UNCC have got nothing on Davidson freshman Chris Heineman. Just ask the
Citadel Bulldogs, who lost to the Wildcats Monday night 62-60 in a Johnston Gym barnburner. It was only fitting that
Heineman hit the winning layup with four seconds left, for he had been the spark for the Cats all night,
scoring ten points and handing out seven assists.

Davidson Coach Bobby Hussey surprised the crowd by starting Heineman and Anthony “Ace” Tanner at guard over Pepper Bego and
Caryl Dawson. Gerry Born was also rewarded for his impressive play of late with a starting spot. But a revamped
lineup did not intimidate a very good Citadel team, which had already beaten Marshall this year, as they spurted to
a 42-33 lead at the half.

The story of the first half was Citadel’s Regan Truesdale, a 6-4 junior guard, who scored 12 points and grabbed
five rebounds. Senior Kenny Wilson almost single-handedly kept the Cats within reach as he scored 14 points. The Bulldogs shot
extremely well over Davidson's zone in the first twenty minutes, thanks in no small part to the pinpoint passing of
sixth man Jimmy Tharpe. Only Wilson’s shooting and Heineman’s hustle and nice passing saved the Cats from an early knockout
punch. And — shades of the Furman game — Citadel, by jumping on the Cats early, had taken the crowd
out of the game, which did not bode well for Davidson.

This time, though, Heineman and the Cats wrote another ending. The second half saw the Cats battle back behind the
shooting of Jim McConkey and Born. Bego came off the bench to score eight points, four on nice inside moves,
and his quickness on defense caused problems for The Citadel. Wilson began taking charge around the basket, finishing with 20
and bringing the Cats to a 57-56 deficit. Then Born drove the baseline for a tough shot to put the
Cats back within one at 59-58. Heineman hit Born with a beautiful bounce pass for a layup to put Davidson
up by one, and after the Bulldogs tied the score with a free throw, he faked Tharpe and drove the
lane to score the decisive bucket. The Citadel threw the ball away in the last seconds trying to hit Truesdale.

By this time, the Johnston Gym crowd had definitely gotten into the game, continuing the Cats’ mastery over The Citadel
here — the last time the Bulldogs won at Davidson was when Lefty was rookie coach here. The win improved
the Cats’ record to 6-10, 2-4 and dropped The Citadel to 8-7, 4-4. This victory was bigger than most people
probably realize, because the Bulldogs are no longer a second-division club, and Truesdale is one of the best players in
the Southern Conference this year.

Hussey has to be pleased with Born’s play in the last few weeks and has to be impressed with Heineman’s
enthusiastic attitude and inspired performance Monday night. But the key to Davidson’s fortune rests with Wilson, who has a knack
for making the big play just when the Cats need one. Against The Citadel, Wilson took Truesdale on defense in
the second half, and the Bulldogs were forced to look elsewhere for their points, and they came up two short.
Thanks to Wilson and Born, and, oh yeah, Heineman.

By STEVE SOUD

It was a cross between what is and what will be. In a mistake-riddled and yet shockingly close 56-59 overtime
loss at Notre Dame, the young Wildcats showed the inexperience that is, and the exciting future that will be. The
Irish, who entered the game at 11-5, lurched to a 7-2 lead thanks mostly to five Davidson turnovers. The Wildcats
tied the game at 12-12, but several youthful mistakes on long passes aborted any chance of taking the lead. At
the half, the Irish led, 31-24. Across the first 11:22 of the second half, the Cats outscored Notre Dame 20-13.
Jim McConkey, en route to a career-high 20 points, led the surge, and Chris Heineman tied it as he completed
a three-point play (assist Tanner) with 8:38 left. What was really remarkable about the tied score was that Kenny Wilson,
who entered the game scoring 19 points per game, had scored only one basket. Soon thereafter he left the game
with his first foul, a predicament which in games past had doomed the Cats. Davidson refused to fold, however, thanks
in part to Notre Dame’s inability to deliver the KO punch. Junior guard Joe Howard missed the front ends of
two one-and-ones, and with 5:51 Coach Bobby Hussey called a wise time out. KW returned to the lineup, but it
was the torrid shooting of McConkey who knotted the game at 48-48. After Pepper Bego pulled down an Irish miss,
Davidson worked for its shot. Wilson followed a miss with a powerful tap to put Davidson on top, 50-48. Notre
Dame tied it at 50 as Joe Price sank a pair of free throws. After another change of possession, Notre
Dame called time out with 1:02 remaining, and the wait began. They couldn’t score, and Born (2-3 FG, 3-4 FT,
and a game-high 11 rebounds) pulled in the miss and called time out with :05 remaining. Heineman missed a half-court
shot, ushering in overtime. The Irish won the jump, and senior Tom Sluby hit a baseline eight-footer for the lead.
The first of two pivotal Davidson turnovers came on an inbounds play with 3:24 left. It was Davidson’s 20th turnover
for the game, and although the last two stood out, the 19 previous turnovers were equally harmful. Sluby scored his
19th point to give the hosts a 54-50 lead. KW hit the boards to cut the lead to two, and
Born rebounded following a Sluby miss. Then came the second turnover on an unwise pass into the lane. With 1:00
remaining the Wildcats sent Sluby to the line; and he hit the front end of a one-and-one, 55-52. As Davidson
brought the ball up-court, Notre Dame played unyielding defense, and when Heineman finally got off a shot, Kempton blocked it.
Bego fouled Jim Dolan with :16 left, and he, in Brian Rowan style, sealed the win as he sank both
free throws. McConkey and Wilson (on a game-ending dunk) closed Wildcat scoring. With the glaring exception of turnovers, the Wildcats
played extremely well. The drop-point zone rendered ineffective the Irish big men off the boards, and the officiating was at
times adverse. It all comes down to one point, though: the Wildcats aren't yet doing the consistent, creative things winning
teams with which ingrain themselves. But that remains for the future.

Moccasins Trounce Cats

Last Saturday the Wildcats traveled to Chattanooga and played a game that wasn’t much of a contest at all. The
Moccasins, three-time defending Southern Conference champs, won handily, 85-57. Davidson played well for the first several minutes, and led 12-10
with 13:10 remaining in the half. The Mocs, led by center Clifford Morgan, then outscored the Cats 21-8 by the
half. UT-C never let Davidson back in the game and coasted to the win. Five Moccasin players placed in double
figures: Willie White (18), Stan Strickland (15), Chris McCray (15), Morgan (11), and Maurice Head (10). Morgan tied with Jim
McConkey for top rebounding honors, with 9 apiece. McConkey began to assert himself for Davidson’s side. At 5 of 9
from the field, 3 of 4 from the line, he was second-leading scorer for the team (Wilson had 16) and
edged Gerry Born by a rebound.

Athlete Of The Week

This week's Athlete of the Week is Tom Hissam, a co-captain of the Wildcat wrestling team. In the Washington and
Lee Invitational he won by a pin in the finals and was named the tournament MVP. Wednesday he won both
of his matches against Catawba and Furman, finishing the week at 5-0. Hissam is a senior from Chagrin Falls, Ohio
and wrestles in the 177-lb. weight class. Special recognition also goes to the men’s basketball team which showed improved, more
balanced play this week in a comeback victory over the Citadel and a narrow overtime loss to Notre Dame.
