Friday, January 27, 1984 / The Davidsonian 5

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

In The Beginning... Sci-Fi Class Creates Planet

By JOHN GATHINGS

A group of Davidson students have launched an endeavor to expand the outer limits of the human mind, attacking and
distorting all preconceived notions about life and the universe. The industrious students of English 195, Science Fiction, are currently “creating”
a new planet, complete with inhabitants, technology, culture, and geography all its own.

The class decided to create a planet in response to the requirement by Professor Nelson that the class find what
project coordinator David Sisk called “a good and meaningful project.” “It’s fascinating,” Sisk said. Senior Margaret Ervin echoed Sisk’s affinity
for the project. “It’s kind of intriguing. As a whole, the class is pretty enthusiastic. Everybody works together,” she said.

Demanding work and tremendous responsibility, however, accompany all the fun. “It’s really taking a lot of time,” Sisk said. “We
are devoting as much time as we would to another class. It involves about 15-20 hours a week.” “You have
to push other people, but you have to push yourself as well,” Ervin said.

The students are each put into one of several committees concentrating on different aspects of the planet. Committees include geography/biology,
science/technology, culture/religion, and art/graphics. The responsibilities for creating life forms, an atmosphere, tools, language, music, and the graphic conceptualization of
these are divided up according to the appropriate committee.

Ervin is co-chairman of the culture committee, responsible for the history/social science aspect. Creating the history can be a very
difficult task. “You have to deal with the specific limitations and advantages of the creatures,” Ervin said. The culture committee’s
work begins once the design of the creature and the geographical environment is determined. The culture is a response to
these specifications.

Inhabitants

“The eyes are under the arm; the creature is very nearsighted,” Ervin said. You have to think “what could this
creature do. It has sonar, that is really advantageous. With this information, you can determine how they will relate to
art. It takes a lot of creativity.” Overcoming the limitations of a unique form of life limits the creator as
well. Ervin said, “the language committee is having a lot of problems because the creature has no lungs. They had
to create a whole different alphabet but then scrapped it when they realized it wouldn't work.”

Originating a history demands a special approach. Ervin said, “You set up a group of problems to build on. You
then solve and make compensations for them. Right now, the inhabitants are on the brink of a class conflict.”

“It’s got some really good academic influence,” Sisk said. “A lot of people who didn’t know anything about biology are
having to look things up to create the inhabitants. Everyone is forced to learn about all parts of education. It’s
like a liberal arts education in a nutshell; a small microcosm of the College.”

“It’s a different learning method,” Ervin said. “It demands a lot more head work than just going to the library
and reading the information out of a book. I don’t regret taking the class at all.” “The more we do
it, the more we like it,” Sisk said. “It’s generating a lot of interest in the class.”

Ervin, an English major, took the class because she had never read any science fiction. Her response to the genre
is positive. “All in all it’s a good class,” Ervin said. The project makes one appreciate the author as well
as the fiction. “Now that we’ve had to do it ourselves, we can appreciate the many, many hours of work
done before anything.”can be set down on paper,” Sisk said. “You work with concepts and how they have to be
brought down to detail before they can be made believable.” Ervin agrees, “It makes you realize the problems of a
science fiction writer.”

Although work will stop with the completion of the actual creation, the project opens the way for future work. Plans
do not include a book, but Sisk said, “there is enough detail and complexity to write a book. The potential
is there and there are enough talented people in the class to write it.”

With the deadline of the project coming in two weeks, “there’s still a lot of stuff to be done,” Sisk
said. “We can't possibly do as much with it as we would like. We should have detailed maps in 3
or 4 days, hopefully in color.”

After the two weeks is up, the class will spend one week practicing an exhibition of the project. “The project
will be presented, probably in the Union, in a series of discussions and presentations,” according to Sisk. Citing a possible
schedule, Sisk said, “The first will be geography and geology, next science and technology, and then religion, language, and music.”
There will be drawings and models as well, with the presentation scheduled for the last week of winter term classes.

—Food

What An Experience: What-A-Burger

By ANDREW WILSON

What a concept! What an adventure! What a culinary delight! What-a-burger! Lying like a slice of individually wrapped Americana at
the heart of scenic downtown Mooresville, “gateway to Lake Norman,” What-a-burger No. 11 is on the right side of the
tracks near the funeral home and right next to the Exxon station.

This reviewer’s idea of pure epicurean hell, gentle readers, is a frightful scenario: discovering one has a dead car battery
and a rumbling stomach while parked in eating space number 13. But never fear, intrepid gastronomers. To the left of
Exxon’s “No Loitering” sign is the reassuring reminder, “Mechanic on Duty.”

Beyond knowing I look forward to a whole “half chicken or shrimp,” Mary — What-a-burger’s manager and employee of “12
years and goin’ on 13” — assures me that she always lets stranded or overstuffed customers use the phone to
call for a tow job. I ask her to name the best item on the menu, and she replies proudly
and without hesitation, “My what-a-burger!” What a woman! When I question her whether the foot-long hot dog really is, she
seems a little surprised that I would even doubt it: “Why sure, though I never measured it.”

While Mary tells me about her husband’s quarter-century of service to What-a-burger and how I really should see this place
on Friday night, I wonder whether What-a-burger ever featured waitresses on roller skates. I decide not to question Mary on
this notion as I notice my waitress delivering my order with a peristaltic, swaying motion.

I confess that this reviewer cannot say much about What-a-burger’s food, although my chocolate shake was superb (they forgot my
french fries). But I must boast that what What-a-burger may lack in dining excellence it more than compensates for in
atmosphere. The four giggling young women in the pickup truck adjacent to me provided appropriate mood music. John Cougar M.'s
“Ain’t that America.”

What-a-burger No. 11 was built in 1965. Like the long-gone Hattie’s, No. 11 may soon become a similar legend. The
Big-Pig Bar B-Q restaurant across the street threatens to do to What-a-burger what malls did to downtowns. This reviewer recommends
What-a-burger study breaks, What-a-burger cocktail parties, What-a-whatever it takes to preserve this fine dining institution.
