4 Friday, January 27, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Medical Technicians Prepared For Emergencies
By DAVID VAN PELT

Davidson students can be sure that in any medical emergency, campus Emergency Medical Technicians are willing and qualified to help.
EMTs are emergency medicine-trained students state certified to assist in medical crises. In squads of two to three people, they
respond to calls from the Davidson infirmary. There are over 20 EMTs on campus.

According to EMT secretary junior Hunter Roddey, the EMTs receive about one call per week, usually for cuts, bruises, and
other minor injuries. Alcohol-related incidents are among the most common, he said. The most serious cases treated this year, according
to Roddey, were a respiratory distress victim and an accidental stabbing.

Roddey characterized the rescue squad as a “first responder unit.” The EMTs are usually the first trained personnel to encounter
the victim. They apply treatment necessary on the scene and transport the victim to the infirmary.

The emergency training procedure consists of 120 hours of classroom study and two five-hour sessions observing PCB emergency treatment at
Charlotte Memorial Hospital. Classes are taught at Davidson by representatives of Central Piedmont Community College. Covered in the training are
anatomy study, patient assessment, childbirth, and patient transfer. Aside from possible physical education credit for the training, the classes are
unaffiliated with Davidson.

Eleven squads constitute the rescue force. Each squad contains one certified EMT and one current trainee, each of whom carries
a pager during his or her two-day shift approximately once a month. One of the four EMT officers always carries
a walkie-talkie, ensuring that there are three members on call at any time.

Many students became interested in the rescue squad because of its valuable on-the-job medical experience. Sophomore Olivier van Dierdonck was
attracted to “the exposure to hospitals and injuries.” But Roddey, while admitting the program's lure for pre-med majors, said that
only two of the rescue squad’s four officers are pre-med majors. “It’s not a pre-med thing at all,” he said.

Storage continued from page 1

...proximately $9,500 ($250 per sample) to determine if the transformers contain PCB. Gibson stressed that even if PCB is discovered
in some of the leaking transformers, health risks would be minimal because the transformers are located in an unpopulated area
and are not near any running water.

PCB is classified as toxic waste by the Federal Government and presents a greater danger to humans and the environment
than do hazardous wastes. Transformers that contain PCB must be properly labeled and stored only with permission from the EPA.

In the 1960s numerous studies from Japan, the United States, Norway, and South Africa revealed PCB’s high toxicity. PCB production
was banned in the U.S. in 1979. PCB is a very stable compound, lasting up to 70 years. It has
been found to cause skin lesions, blindness, hearing loss, jaundice, abdominal pains, chloracne, and swelling of the joints in humans.
PCB has been shown to cause reproductive failure, birth defects, liver damage, carcinogenesis, gastric disorders, and tumors in laboratory animals.
PCB accumulates in animal fat tissues and becomes more concentrated in creatures at the top of the food chain.

Reported by Jeff Mann and David Resnik.

JUNIORS AND SENIORS

Roddey said he joined the EMTs because “I hate to feel helpless in a situation where something needs to be
done.” He advised Davidson students to “feel free...to call in any minor emergency situation because that’s what we're here for,”
he said. If such a situation occurs, he said, someone should immediately call the infirmary at 892-3031 and report the
victim’s name, location, and type of injury. The person should then stay with the injured party until the rescue squad
arrives.

Plott Scholarship continued from page 1

same goals. According to Welsh, “The problems in the Fall have been ironed out. They resulted mainly from a lack
of communication. Everyone now will have plenty of time to express their ideas. I think it was the hurry, the
push that caused a lot of unnecessary anxiety.”

Junior Laura McDonald was named the first Plott scholar this past summer. Welsh said the committee will probably not name
another scholarship recipient until the 1985-86 festival. The committee might select another recipient “if a student comes to Davidson [who
is] the caliber of a Plott scholar,” Welsh said.

Robinson said he favors the delay because the longer lead time will allow more careful preparation. He sees the decision
as a recognition of the complexity of the program. Robinson was one of the primary designers of the scholarship intended
to combine the benefits of a liberal arts education with musical training. Robinson graduated from Davidson with an English major,
and currently is principal oboist with the New York Philharmonic.

“I regret that it got unpleasant,” Robinson said. “What seemed self-evident to me was not shared by others at the
College. I think its success depends on our compromises.” He also said that the selection of a new president might
affect the program. “That decision might have some bearing. That is why I'm glad we're waiting,” he said.

This year’s Plott festival is scheduled for April 6.

SUMMER JOB OPENINGS at Camp Sea Gull (boys) and Camp Seafarer (girls). Serving as a camp counselor is a challenging
and rewarding opportunity to work with young people, ages 7-16. Sea Gull and Seafarer are health and character development camps
located on the coast of North Carolina and feature sailing, motorboating, and seamanship, plus many usual camping activities including a
wide variety of major sports. Qualifications include a genuine interest in young people, ability to instruct in one phase of
the camps’ programs, and excellent references. For further information and application, please write a brief resume of training and experience
in area(s) skilled to Don Cheek, Director, Camps Sea Gull/Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605.

EARN OVER $1000.00 PER MONTH

If you are a math, physics, chemistry or engineering major with a “B” average or better, earn over $1000.00 per
month through your junior and senior years... summers included! The Navy’s NUPOC (Nuclear Propulsion Officer) Collegiate Program is looking for
qualified individuals. Other benefits include:
*** $3000.00 cash bonus immediately upon acceptance
*** $22,000 starting salary — $40,000 after just four years
*** FREE Medical/Dental care and many other benefits
*** 30 days PAID annual vacation
*** 1 year graduate level training
*** Valuable engineering experience
*** Education benefits
*** Job security with fast promotions

If you're interested in finding out more, see the Navy Officer Programs Team, they'll be on campus 31 January —
2 February at the Placement Office. If you can’t make it, send your resume or transcripts to:

ROY SARVIS
U.S. NAVY OFFICER PROGRAMS
1001 Navaho Dr.
Raleigh, NC 27609

Or call 1-800-662-7231
9 a.m. - 3 p.m. MON - THURS
