Friday, April 6, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Open Luncheon Features Candidates

Students and area residents can question district congressional candidates about their views on world and domestic hunger at a candidate’s forum to be held Wednesday, April 11 in the 900 Room. All five candidates for the 9th Congressional District seat — Democrats Susan Green, D. G. Martin, and Ben Tison, and Republicans Carl Horn and Alex McMillan — will take part in the event. The forum is co-sponsored by the forum committee of the Union Board and the Davidson Community Hunger Task Force. Questions will be limited to those dealing with hunger.

Composer-organist to perform Sunday

Composer-organist Dan Locklair, currently assistant professor of music at Wake Forest University, will present a recital at 8 p.m. this Sunday at Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The program includes works by Bach, Brahms, Louis Vierne, Samuel Adler, and the performer himself. It is dedicated to the memory of his uncle, Wriston Locklair. A native of Charlotte, Locklair is a graduate of Mars Hill College and holds a master’s degree from the School of Sacred Music of Union Theological Seminary in New York and a doctorate from the Eastman School of Music.

Locklair’s past recitals include concerts in New York City’s Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, St. Thomas Church, and St. Patrick’s Cathedral. He is also a member of the American Guild of Organists. His music has won three ASCAP awards since 1981. One of his compositions, “Constellations,” received an honorable mention in the prestigious Kennedy Center Friedheim Awards and has been broadcast worldwide via the Voice of America and National Public Radio. Another composition, “Prism of Life,” won Eastman’s Howard Hanson Award and was premiered by the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra as part of its 50th anniversary season in 1982.

Bluestone Named Reynolds Lecturer

Dr. Barry Bluestone, professor of economics and director of the Social Welfare Research Institution at Boston College, will visit Davidson College April 11-13 as a Reynolds Distinguished Lecturer. A leading economist noted for his research in labor economics and regional economic development, Bluestone will speak on “America’s Industrial Revolution in the ’80s: An Assessment of Employment and Economic Opportunity,” April 12 at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. He will discuss the transformation of American industry from manufacturing to services and suggest the implications for employment, income, and social unity.

In addition to his talk, Bluestone and three Davidson faculty members will debate the desirability of a national industrial policy at 3 p.m. in the 900 Room. On April 13 Bluestone will speak informally on the Social Welfare Research Institute during an open luncheon at 12:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. He is a well-known author in the area of low wage employment, wage theory, regional economic development, and welfare system modeling. His most recent book, “The De-Industrialization of America,” looks at America’s declining industrial position. He is currently working on a large-scale research project concerned with the modeling of U.S. economic activity and the American income distribution.

Bluestone received his B.A., M.A., and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan. He is the recipient of the Osterweil Prize in Economics, a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship, and a John Eliot Parker Award in Labor Economics.

Forbes Visits As Staley Lecturer

This weekend the Staley Distinguished Christian Scholar Lecture Series will present Dr. James Forbes, associate professor of Worship and Homiletics at Union Seminary in New York. Dr.Forbes is an ordained minister in the Pentecostal Church and has served as a pastor and college professor.

JOBS! Summer Camp needs male counselors. ACTIVITY AREAS: Swimming, white-water canoeing, sailing, crafts, backpacking, soccer, tennis, riding, basketball. Competitive salary. DATES: 7/13-8/22. Camp Arrowhead, P.O. Box 97, Tuxedo, N.C., 28784 (704) 692-8362

NEWS SUMMARY

Dr. Forbes’ visit will consist of two parts. On Saturday, Forbes will head a seminar entitled “Spiritual Renewal For Social Transformation” at the Ramah Presbyterian Church from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Participants in this seminar should register with College Chaplain Charlie Summers. On Sunday at 11 a.m., Forbes will preach at Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The lecture series was founded by the Thomas F. Staley Foundation in 1978, and sponsors one or two Christian speakers each year. Past speakers in the series include Virginia Mallencott, Ron Sider, and Thomas Skinner.

Election Results

Senior Class Senate: Warren Gould (president), John Peeples, Atondra Williams.
Senior Class Honor Council: Meg Barton, Harding Erwin, John Hackett.
Junior Class Senate: Edward Hay (president), Jennifer Gotto, Frank Hobart.
Junior Class Honor Council: John Clark, Wallis Goodman, Ed Lilly.
Sophomore Class Senate: Mark Sandy (president), Chet Barksdale, Shel Robinson.
Sophomore Class Honor Council: Trip Caldwell, Michael Holt, Dan Murrey.
Council on Campus and Religious Life: Elizabeth Brooks, Craig Detweiler.
Review Board: Nate Spell.
Student Conduct Council: Laura Kline, Robert McLean.
Student Solicitors: Mark Batten, Mike Mauzé, and Mike Tantillo.
Defense Advisors: Chris Blake and Tim Waples.

Resident Advisors For 1984-85 Announced

David Brown: Sentelle
Skip Cashion: Belk
Shelley Chapman: Duke
Paul Coggins: Watts
Ann Dasch: Duke
Mary Edwards: Knox
Kathy Gingrich: Cannon
Stuart King: Belk
Krystyna Kowalczyk: Knox
Beth Maczka: Cannon
Timothy McGaughey: Sentelle
Ansley Moses: Irwin
Alison Moy: Little
Greg Murphy: Watts
Jim Rogers: Belk
Dick Shea: Duke
David Short: Sentelle
Lanny Smith: Belk
Sarah Speed: Little
Atondra Williams: Cannon

Covington Visiting Professor Named

Dr. Ludwig R. Dewitz, professor emeritus at Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, GA, has been named Covington Distinguished Visiting Professor for the spring term at Davidson. Dewitz, a specialist in the Old Testament, will teach courses in the Psalms and the Faith of Israel. A native of Germany, Dewitz attended school in Berlin. In 1937, he fled from the Nazi regime to Great Britain, and eventually earned a bachelor’s degree at the University of London. He came to this country in 1950, and completed his Ph.D. in the language and culture of the ancient Near East at Johns Hopkins University. In 1959, he joined the faculty of Columbia Seminary, where he taught for 24 years before his retirement last year. The Covington Distinguished Visiting professorships were begun in 1982 with a gift from Howard Covington, chairman of the board of Covington Diesel Inc. of Greensboro and a trustee of Davidson College. Covington is past president of the Greensboro chapter of the Davidson College Alumni Association and served on the school’s Parents’ Council with his wife. He is a member of First Presbyterian Church in Greensboro, and has been active with the United Way, the Salvation Army, Children’s Home Society, Junior Achievement, and the Boy Scouts.

EXHIBITION AND SALE OF ORIGINAL GRAPHIC ART

An outstanding selection of Etchings, Woodcuts, Lithographs, and Serigraphs by Old and Modern Masters.
Friday and Saturday April 13 and 14, 1984
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Both Days
The Copeland House Gallery
305 N. Main Street
Davidson, N.C. 28036
892-3005 Work
892-6281 Home