6 Friday, February 10, 1984 / The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Davidson Gentlemen? Student Entrepreneur Scott Otto Corrals Attractive Men For Calendar

By IDA PHILLIPS

I knew Davidson was lacking something. Sure, we have a library, a few dorms, and a couple of big clocks on the buildings, but the college did not seem complete. Luckily, someone became aware of Davidson’s deficiency and acted upon it. And so we have the first “Davidson Gentlemen” calendar.

Senior Scott Otto decided to create a calendar after reading an article about the success of a Harvard men’s calendar. Aided by two females' discerning eyes, Otto developed a list of 30 “good-looking” Davidson males to be tested for the job. After test shots are taken, 12 lucky men will be chosen to be immortalized on the calendar. Over 20 of those approached have tested for the calendar. “Most guys were basically flattered by it,” he said. Otto believes that the fact that similar calendars have been published encourages the models.

The models chosen must be more than attractive personages. Otto stressed that being photogenic is the main requirement. As for living up to the standards of “Davidson Gentlemen,” Otto was not concerned with the models’ personal characters. “The calendar will be sold to a lot of schools where people don’t know the guys, so we won’t go on their ethical qualities. Basically, the Davidson gentlemen on the calendar will be those who look the best,” he said.

The calendar will be comprised of black-and-white pictures of men in various poses. The model’s first name and fraternity will be included. Otto gave a brief chuckle when questioned about the type of poses. “I’ve gotten some pretty crude comments about that, but I won’t repeat them here,” he said. When the female judges chose the candidates, they noted how the models would look best. “One or two guys will definitely have no shirts. I guess they'll be doing something like running or throwing a frisbee. Anything that creates diversity. I don’t want to have all of them stripped to their underwear, because that tends to get boring, to a certain extent,” he said.

Whereas the models get all the glory, Otto only wants a little money. “I don’t expect a humongous profit, but certainly a decent one.” Beyond selling the calendar in the Davidson Student Store, Otto hopes to distribute it to schools in neighboring states. “I got a list of schools that have some affiliation with Davidson, such as athletic events. I sent each of them a letter describing the calendar and asking how many they would buy.” Otto hopes that after printing 1,000 calendars for the first edition, he will receive re-orders.

Although the models are not being paid for their work, they seem to be enjoying this unique opportunity. “When I got the letter asking me to do it, I read it, thought about it, and then laughed hysterically. I was amused and flattered,” one student said. One model was quite surprised at his selection: “I never thought of myself as a calendar boy.” Another model expressed concern about the amount of clothing he would agree to wear. “I wouldn't do a nude because I’d have no future here.” He went on to tell a horror story about a female student at Duke University who modeled in the nude and promptly disappeared from the campus and school records.

The calendar should be on the market during spring term. Otto said he had received some ribbing about going into posters and foldouts if the calendar is a success.

Workshop III: Thought-Provoking Drama And Tragic Comedy

Aria da Capo’s Thyrsis and Corydon

By ROSS HOLT

For the past two weeks, the valiant elves of Theatre 201 and 202 have worked to set up the next set of workshop plays. Last night, Workshop III opened in a theatre rearranged from the round into a thrust stage. This week’s plays — Overtones,Directed by Jeff Mann, and Aria da Capo directed by Lisa Brawley—lack the force of those of the past two weeks, but both productions are intriguing and enjoyable. Overtones, by Alice Gerstenberg, is a study of four women—four in two. As the play lights rise, Hattie and Harriet are discussing the difference between themselves. Actually, they are two faces of the same woman: Harriet, played by Alison Rose, is the public face, the pretty, happy wife and socialite. She also represents the set of rules that keep Hattie in check. Hattie, played by Clare Eckert, is the private face—Harriet’s real desires. The two are inseparable, however, and consequently appear together onstage, dueling for control. The real duel begins when Margaret—played by Sarah Smith—and her alter ego Maggie—played by Mary Hill—arrive. Hattie wants Margaret’s husband John, a struggling artist, while Maggie wants Harriet’s riches and social status. Thus the differences between the passionate Hattie and the more scheming Maggie play out in the polite, coffee-and-cakes social interaction between Margaret and Harriet. Still, neither face of either woman can take complete control of her alter ego. Director Mann milks the blocking for all it’s worth. As the women vie for control of themselves as well as each other, they maneuver and jockey for position physically as well as emotionally. The actors move about the relatively small stage fluidly, punctuating each other’s lines with their crosses. The actors play well off each other in all combinations (Harriet/Hattie, Margaret/Maggie, Maggie/Hattie, and Harriet/Margaret), and the viewer never loses the sense that the four parts make up only two women. These factors, combined with effective costumes (color-keyed to the characters) and lighting touches, come together to make Overtones an entertaining, thought-provoking drama.

The evening’s second production, Edna St. Vincent Millay’s Aria da Capo, is an at first confusing juxtaposition of comedy and tragedy given a dissonant production. Director Brawley spreads out the action on a black and white chessboard. As the play opens, black-clad Cothurnus, played by Dan Metzel, sets up a scene which looks like a cross between a birthday party and a baby shower. Two clowns (or perhaps harlequins) take the stage, Columbine, played by Christiana Wiseman, and Pierrot, played by John Toler. Unfortunately, despite the best efforts of Toler and Wiseman (who are very good), the play fails to draw in the viewer until its second section. After Columbine and Pierrot banter for a while, apparently about the things which draw them to each other, Cothurnus returns as a stage director and replaces their scene with a tragedy. Thyrsis, played by Pat Donley, and Corydon, played by Leslie Bryan, are friends who are torn apart when they make a game of building a wall between one another. Each trapped on a different side, they become suspicious of the other’s intention. Thyrsis moves only on the white squares while Corydon moves only on the black. Donley and Bryan work well together as the distance between their characters grows—along with the animosity. The promised tragedy unfolds, and Columbine and Pierrot return for a brief denouement. Though this production of Aria is uniformly fine, the play itself is hard to follow. The necessity behind the first Columbine/Pierrot scene becomes apparent only after the tragedy scene is over. That long first scene leaves the viewer wondering only about how the scene ties in, rather than thinking about its message. The ending, however, is quite effective in getting across that message and somewhat redeems the first scene’s dramatic inadequacy. Still, here is evidence why Edna St. Vincent Millay is remembered mainly as a poet rather than as a playwright. The visually striking set and costumes, however, along with strong acting from the cast, make the play well worth seeing. With Overtones’ intensity and Aria da Capo’s production value, Workshop III presents a strong evening's diversion.