Friday, April 27, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Laughlin Meets Carnegie To Discuss
By DAVID McGEE

SGA President John Laughlin met last week with Wildcat Club Executive Director Sandy Carnegie to discuss how student opinion could
be reconciled with Davidson’s athletic program. Carnegie also briefed Laughlin on the conditions under which Davidson athletics operates.

A poll conducted winter term by the Presidential Advisory Committee on athletics indicated students and faculty feel that major revenue
sports (football and basketball) receive too much emphasis compared to non-revenue sports. A significant number, however, responded that emphasis on
major sports was “about right.”

Carnegie told Laughlin that, although some students and faculty may favor withdrawing from the Southern Conference, membership in the Southern
Athletics Conference gives better support to all Davidson sports than if Davidson joined another conference. According to Carnegie, Laughlin said,
the cost of maintaining a football program would be the same regardless of which conference Davidson plays in. In addition,
playing in the Southern Conference improves recruiting, eligibility for post-season tournament play, and earnings from revenue sports.

Carnegie also pointed out that the Trustees made a decision for Davidson to compete in the Southern Conference. “He [Carnegie]
feels, and I concur, that we should support the Trustee’s decision,” Laughlin said. He added that the SGA hopes to
promote a more positive attitude toward athletes on campus. “We're waiting for the new president to arrive, and we plan
to work with him,” Laughlin said.

Union To Publish Event Guide
By RAND HARTSELL

A programming guide, presently in the final stages of development, will be published sometime early next year. The 17 to
20-page booklet was the brainchild of former SGA President Hunter Monroe. It will contain “hopefully everything you always wanted to
know about sponsoring an event at Davidson,” said Paul Kowert, who was in charge of compiling and editing the guide.

Kowert explained that Monroe saw the need for an information source which would explain to anyone about all the ins
and outs of putting on an event. “Often people will start to organize a function and not know where to
go for certain equipment, who to go to for permission to put on the event, things of that nature,” explained
Kowert. “The information also covers publicity, transportation, security, tickets — generally, things people just don’t think about when they’re putting
on an event.”

Kowert said the booklet is in the post-criticism phase, having been critiqued by Beverly Harris of the Communications department, Dean
of Students Will Terry, Union staff secretary Lynda Daniels, Dining Services Director Carlton Pritchard, Monroe, SGA President John Laughlin, and
Union Director William Brown. Kowert expects the guide to be published through some branch of the College Union.

Sharon Lowen conducts a workshop in classical Indian dance for a group of students.

Lectures Highlight India Week
By TOM SCHILLING

Davidson’s South Asian Studies Program sponsored “India Week” from Tuesday through Thursday. The events included slide shows, lectures, and discussions
on India’s political and economic situations and culture, as well as a vocal concert and a performance of traditional dance.

History Professor Job Thomas, director of the South Asian Studies Program, said the activities were chosen in response to “demonstrated
specific interests of students in the program.” Many of the events represent courses related to India taught in various departments,
particularly in music, drama, and anthropology. “For example,” explained Thomas, “there will be an Indian Folklore class in anthropology offered
again next year.” Other related courses include the Economics of Southeast Asia, and Indian art.

According to Thomas, “Davidson has the largest program with India from New York to Texas.” The College has sent over
one-half of the “Term In India” participants each year since the program began. Sharon Lowen performed a traditional dance of
Northeastern India on Thursday night to conclude the three-day program. Lowen lives in North Carolina.but has studied the “Odissi” classical
dance from gurus in India. She used elaborate make-up, subtle hand movements, and chanting background music to convey the sense
of the dance. In addition to demonstrations of the rich cultural heritage, other activities focused on current problems. Dr. Shubh
Kumar delivered a lecture on “The Role Of Women in Agricultural Production” on Tuesday. Thomas said, “the women have to
work too much” and blames some of the problem on “giant families” and problems in agriculture. The average Indian male
worker might earn the equivalent of seventy cents a day to care for a family of ten, and a heavy
burden falls on the woman, he said. Thomas has been encouraged by the attendance at the events and hopes they
will stimulate interest in South Asian courses.

Bolding Takes Values Survey For Doctorate Work
By ELIZABETH SMILEY

What do you value more — social recognition or national security? Do you consider yourself a more forgiving or a
more logical person? And do you feel that making religious services an integral part of Davidson activities is of no
importance, medium importance, or of extremely high importance? Students, faculty, professional and support staffs, alumni, trustees, and some incoming freshmen
received an opportunity to answer questions like these this week on a survey circulated by Director of Housing Bill Bolding.
Bolding is currently at work on his doctoral dissertation in Higher Education Administration. He chose Davidson as the focus of
his research into the goals of small liberal arts institutions because of the old doctoral philosophy of “convenience,” he said.

The survey was distributed to all on-campus residents and to the College perimeter houses. Roughly one-third of respondents returned the
questionnaire, a response rate much higher than the 10 percent with which Bolding would have been satisfied. The questionnaire consisted
of nineteen evaluative statements, two values sets to be ranked in ascending order, and a section on personal data. The
questionnaire preserved the anonymity of each respondent. Seventeen out of the nineteen statements asked respondents to evaluate the spirituality of
the College. More specifically, they required respondents to decide how predominantly a Christian ethic figures into Davidson's goals. All of
the statements were derived directly from the College Statement of Purpose, some intact, Bolding said. According to Bolding, statements like
“Davidson's goal is to seek faculty of genuine spirituality,” are ambiguous and open to diverse interpretations. To evaluate the statement
on a given scale of 1-5, a respondent must supply his or her own definition both of “spirituality” and of
Davidson’s real goals.

Bolding expects to see radically different answers between seniors and freshmen, and even perhaps faculty and students. He has not
yet tallied the responses, however. At this point, he is “aiming for a summer completion” of his research. Bolding became
interested in institutional goals partly because of his vision for the future of small liberal arts colleges. As enrollments decrease,
Bolding feels that colleges will need to create or strengthen a set of values and goals to shape and maintain
the character of the College. In addition, colleges must determine who sets their goals. Should the trustees have that responsibility?
Or is it up to the college president and/or faculty? Bolding hopes to use his research to begin answering crucial
questions about undergraduate institutional goals. However, he stressed he has made no preconceived hypotheses about what he expects to discover
from his study. Some surprising results may occur. But Bolding remains convinced of one assumption: setting goals for a liberal
arts college need not — and should not — be a difficult task. Bolding does not plan to submit his
research to Davidson administrators and faculty. However, the complete dissertation will be available to any interested reader.
