Friday, January 20, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Chapel Hour Encourages Spiritual Growth

Dick Lee

When I was a prospective student, the one characteristic that made Davidson stand out was its commitment to Christian ideals. Phrases from the Statement of Purpose, like the following, influenced my decision to choose Davidson: “Davidson recognizes God as the source of all truth. As a college committed to the historic Christian faith, it sees Jesus Christ as the central fact of history, giving purpose, order, and value to the whole life.” Being a starry-eyed Christian and young in the faith, I was overwhelmed by the college’s forthright Christian approach to education.

Here I am today as a Davidson senior. I am a bit less naive and much more cynical with four years of the “Davidson experience.” I now realize that what I understood as “committed to the historic Christian faith” actually meant “influenced by the historic Christian faith.” I am not griping. In my opinion, Davidson is as Christian as any college or university can be these days. I only wish that there be more consistency between the Statement of Purpose and the practice of it. A step toward actualizing the written goals of the college is to bring back the chapel hour.

Another quote from the Statement of Purpose is as follows: “Davidson is a college of liberal arts. As such it emphasizes those studies, disciplines and activities which liberate mankind physically, mentally and spiritually.” Davidson’s contribution to its students’ physical and mental development is evident in the physical education and academic courses, but how does Davidson develop its students spiritually?

A response would be that the college requires that its students take at least two religion courses. To me, religion courses are spiritually challenging; but to many others, religion courses are merely requirements for graduation, and religion exams are mental spittoons containing regurgitated class notes. Besides, I do not think that the writers of the Statement of Purpose meant for spiritual development to consist only of academic religion courses. The writers probably had a notion of spiritual development more along the lines of Paul in First Corinthians 2:12-13, “Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might know the things freely given to us by God, which things we also speak, not in words taught by human wisdom, but in those taught by the Spirit, combining spiritual thoughts with spiritual words.”

How can the statement, “[Davidson] emphasizes those studies, disciplines and activities which liberate mankind . . . spiritually,” be further analyzed? Perhaps “liberate” is interpreted as “allow freedom of choice to.” I see this interpretation as the one followed by the college since I have been a Davidson student. Students have the freedom to develop spiritually in any way they choose in a variety of on-campus organizations. Unfortunately, these organizations, such as Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Catholic Campus Ministries and Davidson Christian Fellowship, serve only a small percentage of the student body.

What is the problem? Implicit in the freedom to develop spiritually is that a student has the responsibility to actually choose a way of spiritual development. Most students have ignored this responsibility. They hold the notion that they have enough self-motivation to develop spiritually apart from the campus organizations. No one has that much self-motivation. Because we students lack self-motivation, we must follow guidelines set by the college and its professors in order that we may develop academically. The same is true for spiritual development. No one is born with a spiritual silver spoon in the mouth. Spiritual growth can come only through following guidelines set by one’s chosen spiritual community. Paul in his Letter to the Ephesians described the spiritual community as the body of Christ in which individuals (the body parts) worked together for the building up of the whole community. I see the writers of the Statement of Purpose desiring that Davidson College be analogous to the church at Ephesus with all of us working towards the building of a strong spiritual community. A regular chapel hour encourages this development.

Currently, more activities (fraternities, eating houses, etc.) divide the campus than unite it. A time should be set aside for chapel hour in order that all students (and faculty) may attend. The chapel hour will promote such a unity among its attenders that they will finally be able to grasp what it is to be Davidson students instead of just athletes, fraternity and club members that attend Davidson.

I do not think anyone would disagree with me that as a tool for community building, the chapel hour is an excellent idea. Many, who are against the chapel hour, are concerned as to what will be the pervasive attitude taken during the chapel hour. They fear the chapel hour will be too sectarian; perhaps it will be too Christian. They feel that if Christian sectarianism becomes too strong at Davidson, then prospective students of other faiths will avoid Davidson, thus making Davidson a weaker school academically. This argument is a valid one against the chapel hour. Speaking for myself, I would not care if chapel hour was used to teach underwater basket weaving. I would benefit greatly simply from fellowship with other Davidson students. But Davidson’s Statement of Purpose explicitly states aDedication to the Jesus Christ known through Protestant Christian doctrines. If Davidson College wishes to remain true to its Statement of Purpose, the chapel hour need be sectarian. If administrators wish to avoid offending students of other faiths, then I need to ask this question: is the goal of Davidson College to be the best school academically or is the goal to be the best Christian school academically and spiritually? Lee is a Christian and senior religion major from Greensboro, NC.

Sony Shakes Disney’s World
Mike Stephens

All my childhood visions of the nature of one of the most famous persons ever to impress the minds of the under-ten generation were shattered last week when the Supreme Court upheld the private use of video tape recorders for the purpose of recording television programs. I had always thought Walt Disney was a big business corporation and not a friendly old man who wished only to bring happiness to the children of the world. However, when I learned of the Supreme Court verdict on the case of Walt Disney vs. Sony, I knew I would never be able to look at Mickey Mouse in the same way again — and all because of an invention whereby we can watch the garbage we missed last week.

Walt Disney, or better, the Walt Disney Corporation, complained that persons owning video tape recorders tend to record material that normally they would have to pay to see in a theater or rent from authorized distributors of pre-recorded materials. They sought a Supreme Court verdict which would force the Sony corporation and other manufacturers of video recording paraphernalia to pay a percentage-based royalty on the sale of their material. This was supposed to compensate for lost revenues from viewing recorded material instead of going to theaters or renting tapes from those distributors already paying royalties to the film companies. Their point seems valid enough in theory, but the problem was that Disney could not show that they had suffered any loss at all due to the use of the taping devices. Consequently, and rightly, they lost.

But they weren't happy about it. A Disney spokesperson characterized the verdict as a blow to the motion picture industry from which it may never recover. Another said he felt the verdict represented an attempt to do away with theater as it exists in America today. They reported “massive losses” they were going to suffer as a result. This case was a landmark, not on the issue of video tape recording methods or the motion picture industry, but a common sense verdict made by a United States court.

Recently a man in New York City was awarded $350,000 as a result of hurling himself in front of a moving subway train in an attempt to commit suicide. While on the surface this verdict may seem absurd, one has to delve into the matter to find out how absurd the case really was. This man, who had a history of mental instability, attempted suicide by jumping in front of a New York City transit train. The impact of the car severed two of his limbs. His lawyer proposed that the brakeman should have been able to stop the train successfully and cause no injury 25 percent of the time if he was truly alert. He was, therefore, 25 percent responsible for the accident. Because the client was 75 percent responsible, he lowered his demand on the transit authority by 75 percent, leaving a sum of $350,000. He then won his case. To complete the absurdity, last year he once again managed to leap from his wheelchair in front of another train.

It was good, for a change, to hear that the Disney case was judged on the basis that no loss had occurred. It just makes sense that if no loss is experienced, then no royalties are required to compensate. The losses the Disney people based all their figures on were the royalties which would be lost if the Supreme Court failed to grant them. Walt Disney may have been a nice old man, but the company bearing his name is downright greedy. I, for one, was happy to see a good, solid, common sense approach to an issue for once. I hope this policy will continue. Something is wrong with a court that can award a man $350,000 for attempting suicide, an act illegal in most places. The problem is not with the system by which justice is administered, but in the justice which the system administers. It’s about time that a close look was taken at the intricate system of plea bargaining and mitigating circumstances that has evolved from the principle of trial by a jury of one's peers. Our system will work if we let it, and the Disney/Sony verdict is evidence of this. Sorry Mickey and Goofy, but you messed up this time.

Stephens is a freshman from Roswell, Ga.