Friday, March 30, 1984 / The Davidsonian 7

Deja Vu Epic: Gandhi Was Great, Gandhi Is Not
By MATT MORRIS

Gandhi opens promisingly. In a stark, almost documentary fashion, the viewer witnesses the Indian leader’s assassination — there is a
scuffle, crowds run by, and the great man is dead. This sequence is effective because, like many political killings, the
murder occurs with startling speed. However, by the end of this monstrous three-hour-plus epic, one comes to the realization that,
while Gandhi may have been great, Gandhi isn’t.

The formula behind Gandhi seems foolproof. Commandeered by Ben Kingsley, in a completely convincing portrayal of the title character, the
fascinating story of India’s struggle for independence seems excellent cinema fodder. Yet, the epic “formula” is exactly what destroys the
film’s power. Through the overrated lens of director Richard Attenborough, the movie plods on the treadmill of convention, and subsequently
recalls older, far more “epic” epic films. The works of David Lean immediately come to mind — Lawrence of Arabia
and Dr. Zhivago — and it is obvious that Attenborough has studied these films closely. Perhaps the enormously staged massacre
in Gandhi might have been more affecting if Dr. Zhivago, with all of its wildly brutal civil war scenes, had
never been filmed. As it is, Gandhi reeks of déjà vu that just can’t be ignored.

This “rip-off” method may have worked, but Attenborough is no “movie” director. His aesthetic would perhaps operate well on the
stage. In a film, however, where the action should move, a nailed-down camera simply does not work. Attenborough’s Indian backdrop
suffers the most from this approach, for where the film should entice the viewer’s eye and probe the amalgamation of
poverty and mysticism in this Eastern world, Gandhi settles for a Life Magazine style. Aside from a few crowd scenes,
a majority of the film retains a “backlot feeling,” and the sets seem surprisingly cheap for a movie that was
supposed to have taken twenty years to make.

The story itself is ultimately told in a surprisingly conventional fashion with no insight whatsoever into the characters and their
motivations. Perhaps Attenborough was so satisfied with the story that he saw no reason to overwhelm the viewer's eye. And
try as they may, the actors cannot defeat the movie's stage-bound feel. As the film develops its by-the-book epic formula
minus an analytic viewpoint, one may well scream monotony when Gandhi time and again starves himself. Performances such as Nehru
seem solid, but crumble in the film’s two-dimensionality. Candice Bergen, in her “go-40’s” look is

---

Hardee’s Coupons:

STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND ORANGE JUICE $1.29
Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due.
This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours only at participating Hardee’s
Restaurants through May 31, 1984. © 1983, Hardee’s Food Systems, Inc.

REGULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79
Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due.
This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants
through May 31, 1984. © 1983, Hardee’s Food Systems, Inc.a complete joke as a LIFE magazine reporter (how appropriate). That
leaves Kingsley to carry the show, and his performance gives the film weight. His dark, searching eyes suggest a rare
perception. More than a political or religious symbol, Gandhi was a man, and Kingsley touches on this, particularly in his
outbreaks of pure emotion. The sad fact, however, is that while Attenborough may have some very fine “cattle” (to quote
Hitchcock), he has not effectively—or originally—told a story through film. But since the movie is about the East, and we
Westerners have a natural guilt feeling towards that unappreciated corner of the world, Gandhi broke box office records, was claimed
a masterpiece, and won eight academy awards, including best picture and best director. That’s Hollywood.

— Music By STEPHEN MANK

Missing Persons is not the kind of band to which one can readily adapt his or her listening taste. It’s
a rapid-fire outgrowth of new wave with a very fast, very big sound highlighted by the no-holds-barred vocals of Dale
Bozzio. The combo’s first album was met with many critical arguments. The band was very synthesized, and Bozzio’s vocals had
a bizarre tendency to crack, or hiccup—or something. By their third LP Rhyme and Reason, critics have realized that synthesizers,
for better or worse, are too far entrenched into pop music to be the sole condemning factor of an album.
Not only that, but folks are actually getting used to Bozzio’s voice.

Rhyme and Reason is basically a very good album. The tunes are snappy and the musicians are some of the
best the music industry has to offer. Consisting mostly of expatriates from Frank Zappa's Mothers of Invention, the band shows
an attention to detail and musicianship that rivals Zappa’s own. The songs on the album are quick with lyrics that
read more like a self-improvement book than rock and roll: “Give/ When you have anything at all to give/ You
have everything to live for;/ Give all you've got to give./ after you’ve given all you can,/ Give again—give again.”
Lyrics like these are all well and good, but George Harrison has taught us time and again that preaching does
not make popular music very popular.

Lyrical inadequacies, however, are a small drawback. The band is the brainchild of Dale Bozzio’s husband Terry. Terry Bozzio has
played with the Mothers and U.K., and over the years has proven himself to be quite possibly the best drummer
in rock. He tends to use synthesized drums a bit excessively for such a master of acoustic drums, but talent
is talent. The guitar work is also exceptional, and on songs like “The Closer that you Get” switches adeptly from
power chords to delicate fretboard gymnastics and back again. Dale Bozzio’s vocals have improved with this latest disc. They are
very controlled but occasionally they still do that thing (crack, hiccup, etc.).

In spite of the sometimes inaccessible vocals and sometimes trite lyrics, the songs on Rhyme and Reason are catchy and
overpowering. The flaws of the album are only apparent with close listenings. As long as one is willing to sit
in the back seat and let the album take control, it is a fine listening experience.

KING OF PIZZA
663-3030
225 S. Broad St.
Mooresville

FAMILY NIGHT
Every Monday Night 5 To 10

PIZZA
BUY ONE PIZZA (ANY SIZE)
GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE FREE
