Friday, January 27, 1984 / The Davidsonian 7

Love Tractor Harvests Psychedelic Porch Funk

By TITO FINCH and JOE JAWORSKI

Love Tractor, a relatively new band from Athens, Georgia, played F & M Monday night. Along with opening act Other
Bright Colors (catch ‘em at the Milestone tonight), they put on a show that kept the house rocking until past
the time your mom retires on weeknights.

The band plays a novel brand of listenable and danceable guitar pop that guitarist and vocalist Mark Cline calls “psychedelic
porch funk.” The band was sympathetic to our entreaties for an interview, since they were waiting for a sound check.
They had nothing better to do, so they gave us a chance to talk with the band.

Mark began the interview by informing us that he is a Leo, born in the Leo-Virgo cusp with Gemini rising,
and that he gets his hair cut by an Italian barber on 1st and 76th streets in New York (Joe
wanted to know this). The conversation which followed these inanities is as follows:

Tito: Just to get started, could you identify all the members of the band for us?
Mark: Sure. I'm Mark Cline, on guitar, bass, and vocals. Armistead Wellford is the bassist, and he also plays the
clarinet and sings. Michael Richmond plays guitar and sings, and the drummer is Andrew Bierne Carter. Woody Noss is our
sound man.

Joe: Where did you get the name “Love Tractor”?
Mark: I don’t know, it just came naturally to us, I guess. A lot of people try to put meaning
into it. When we were playing at Brown, a girl came up to us and told us that it was
the grossest name for a vagina that she had ever heard. That’s crazy. It doesn’t mean anything.

Tito: Where did you get the idea to do a song called “Fat Birds”?
Mark: Well, after R.E.M.’s “Wolves, Lower” came out, we decided to spoof it. We were just screwing around and came
up with a song called “Birds, Lower.” The joke was aimed at [R.E.M. bassist] Bill Berry, and he would have
gotten it, but everyone else would have thought that we were ripping them off or putting them down, so we
changed it to “Fat Birds, Lower,” and then just “Fat Birds.”

Joe: Do you travel with just five people? How do you support yourself?
Mark: Yeah, just us five. Sometimes someone from the record company [dB Records] will come with us, but not often.
We're completely subsidized by our music, both gigs and sales.

Tito: What’s your opinion of the PWTB Syndrome? You know, that crowd that gets a charge out of “partyin’ with
the band” backstage.
Mark: Those guys’re really weird. [Laughs.] Really, we don't get into those kinda people. We love to drink a few
beers and have a good time, I mean, we're normal guys, but there are so many people out there who
want to hang out with us just because we're in a band, and not because we're nice guys. It gets
kinda old. I mean, you wouldn't believe how many “best friends” musicians have. I’ve had at least five different girls
tell me that they're Bill Berry’s best friend. [Interview stops while everyone laughs at everyone else’s favorite PWTB stories.]

Joe and Tito: Would anyone else like to say anything?
Armistead: Hi.

Looking for a part-time job? Openings for hard workers at

UNITED PARCEL SERVICE

Applications are to be accepted at United Parcel Service - (Corner of I-85 and North Graham) in Charlotte

Interviews at United Parcel Service

[Michael and Andrew are absorbed in a game of eight-ball and say nothing.]

Joe: What do you think about the “musical hierarchy”?
Mark: There’s a lot of guys on the periphery of our thing who try to tell us which direction our
music should take, and that bothers us. Otherwise, we realize that all the production and management and executive-level crap is
necessary, and we've learned to live with it.

Tito: What's your favorite kind of place to play?
Mark: We really like playing small parties like this. We're looser on stage, and that makes for a better sound.
Also, I like to be able to see the crowd dancing and having fun.

Joe: At what point did you make the “crisis decision” to keep the band together? How hard was it?
Mark: Actually it was a pretty simple decision. I'm an art major, and I don’t want to be a graphic
designer right now. You just reach a certain point in your music when everything is really clicking, and you don’t
want to stop.

Tito: Did you go to the University [of Georgia]?
Mark: Yeah, all of us except Andrew. We still live there. Athens is a really great place to live. It's
got a really super music community. Everyone is really supportive. It’s really cheap to live there, too, with the students
there and all.

Wednesday, February 1, 4:00 to 6:00 p.m.

Pay: $8.00 per hour
15 to 25 hours per week
Monday through Friday

Excellent benefits
Additional inquiries or information available through Careers Office

Equal Opportunity M/F
