A Friday, March 23, 1984 / The Davidsonian

they will present at the public hearing. However, he added the situation “looks pretty bleak if our defense doesn’t pan out.” He said the fraternity had contacted its national for legal advice. Dean of Students Will Terry said the College would probably adopt “the position that we’ve always taken” concerning the off-campus fraternities. “The business between the town and those two houses is just that — their business,” he said.

the international scene,” and possibly in government. In this way, the Duke Professor/Dean Rusk Director will be able to coordinate programs relevant to current international trends, and draw upon personal and professional resources to strengthen Davidson international offerings. International education has been a principal focal point of discussion and debate at Davidson this year. In the fall, the Dean Rusk Endowment for International Studies was launched, with a projected goal of $10 million over an open-ended time schedule. The Dean Rusk Endowment for International Studies is part of the larger Davidson 1987 Program, a comprehensive campaign to improve substantially college endowment at all levels by Davidson’s sesquicentennial year. Rusk’s opening remarks in a Development Office promotional publication suggest that American students face an unprecedented set of challenges for human survival and world peace, for which they are ill-prepared. “I am deeply convinced that this generation of young people now in our schools and colleges is destined to write a unique chapter in the history of the human race,” he writes.

Undergraduate international education is no longer a luxury, but a necessity, according to Center for Special Studies Director Louis Ortmayer. Ortmayer believes that international education is important for practical and professional reasons. International events will impact post-graduates’ lives in practically any field they choose. And if Davidson did not pursue expansion of international studies? “It would still be a good, provincial, isolated sort of school,” he said. The Dean Rusk Endowment will play the pivotal role in internationalizing the Davidson curriculum and the student body. A $10 million capital will generate $500,000 annually to fund projects in four basic areas: faculty enrichment, student scholarship, community support, and materials and technology improvements. So far, with the addition of the Duke Endowment grant, the

FORGE A great way of life

Zoning Ordinance (continued from page 1)

Terry said the College would take the position of an interested party and would be open to the eventuality of the fraternities returning to campus. If either or both requested a house on the court, he said he would follow the procedure he used for the BSC and Warner Hall. He added, however, that given the requirements of the fraternities’ nationals, return to the court did not seem likely. Johnston termed what his fraternity faced as ‘an ordeal.” Though the house met and meets special use permit requirements, he said, the fraternity was unaware of the expiration of the 1976 grandfather clause due to transitions in leadership. MacCormac emphasized that “the sole issue being addressed is whether fraternities are compatible with residential use. Nobody’s making a statement about the good or bad, or the purpose or nature of fraternities.” Terry echoed MacCormac’s sentiment.Dean Rusk Endowment has collected close to $1.5 million in donations, according to Powers. Powers does not expect that the $10 million goal will be met by 1987. However, he hopes that the establishment of the James B. Duke Professorship will stimulate further giving by donors who have hesitated to contribute to a program still largely undefined. Like most small colleges, Davidson faces a decade or more of student body decreases and cost increases. With this gloomy outlook, it is tempting to wonder if Davidson can afford the Dean Rusk Endowment. Powers believes that the long-term benefits outweigh questions of affordability. “Industry is going to be looking for people with some comprehension of what’s going on in the world around us,” he said. Davidson's unique program in international studies will be an attractive feature for prospective students. Said Powers, it will be desirable to go to Davidson College in 1985 because of the opportunities the Dean Rusk Endowment will open, both at Davidson and beyond.

Computer Sales (continued from page 1)

Director of Computer Services John Casey expects that “most people will be surprised by how many people will purchase computers.” Although they sound expensive, the benefits, once realized, will make the price seem not so incredible. Owners can keep files and do processing at home. Computers for work-related use also create tax savings. Computer Services will offer short workshops on Personal Computer concepts to give people a taste of using the machines. More extensive workshops, led by Crenshaw, will be oriented toward making a purchase. According to Crenshaw, six recent workshops have all been full. Fifteen computers have already been sold and many more positive comments made toward purchases. The Center hopes to “get a nucleus going” and build around it an integrated, campus-wide network. The agreement with IBM offers quality computers at good prices. The Computer Center workshops give even non-buyers the chance to learn about and use the Personal Computer. The ultimate success of the move depends on how far and where the campus wants to take it. For information on purchasing or prices of the discounted IBM Personal Computers, contact Computer Services.

Typesetting Positions Available at Good Pry. Contact The Davidsonian at 892-2000 ext. 148 or 149.

IF YOU WANT TO BE A PHYSICIAN, WE’LL PAY FOR IT.

If you're willing to invest your skills and knowledge as an Air Force medical officer, we'll invest in you and pay your way through medical school. It’s the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program and it pays for tuition, books, supplies, equipment and lab fees plus a monthly income of more than $550. See your Air Force recruiter for details.

TSGT BOB PAYNE

Order in advance—Wine & Beer by the case: Cost plus 10%
Keg beer: Cost plus 10%
CALL COLLECT 919-755-4134
128 S. Main St.-Davidson, N.C
Trissy Lomax, owner
28036
892-7521