8 Friday, September 14, 1984 / The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Organic Life Fascinates, More or Less

For many years I have admired the works of a rare breed, a group of writers I call the Clara Hieronymouses of America. These people are an unusual lot, for they earn their way simply by observing things. You can find them in any town which rates a newspaper — from Selma's Red Lipstick Lady to Nashville’s Red O’Donnell all the way to Charlotte's revered Kays Gary. They are not exactly journalists; they are observers, and rumor has it they've all made fortunes at it.

MORE OR LESS
By ANN MEADOR

It is with this in mind that I begin More or Less, more or less, to observe things in hopes of making a fortune at it.

Organic Life

Having recently gained senior status and — more importantly — an off-campus address, I have suddenly noticed the botanic wonders of Davidson. Exhibit A: a hunk of vegetation which I found lying on the ground.

Peggy Pierotti

The vegetation

Being a senior I immediately recognized it for what it was, but a quick poll revealed that students of all ages had no idea what it was. Here’s a quick sampling of suggested ways of cooking the object:

Sarah Galiley suggested treating the thing like squash, slicing it and sautéing it in butter.

“It looks like an apple with acne,” Chris Gunn said, “and personally, I don’t cook acne.”

“You could always stuff it with chicken salad,” Pam Strader said.

“Low heat for 12 hours,” Clay Napper suggested.

“Peel it, add cinnamon and a little bit of sugar. Cook it 20 minutes at 200 degrees,” Wendy Fulks said.

“Steam it for four hours,” Sarah Dysart said.

“Dice it, cook it at 350 degrees for 10 minutes, put sauerkraut on it, and put it between two pieces of bread,” Matt Morris said.

New I.D.; New Id?

I like the way Davidson is growing, but some changes are harder to accept than others. Easy to take: Herb Jackson's new paintings in the Commons (rumored to be representations of actual Commons entrées). Hard to take: new I.D.s. The first one was bad enough, right? “Have a seat,” he says, and before you've sat, he hands you a laminated view of your Adam's apple. At least this one has a good, unintelligible signature on it; Joh W. Krfidoll is our president? Not at all like SammmuelR SpeveerJr.

Etiquette Corner

A rule for the Commons: never fill more than five...

Steve Mank, Brian Butler, and Joe Jaworski play allie, during a party at F & M last winter.

Alumni Band To Appear At Milestone
By MATT MORRIS

Other Bright Colors, a North Carolina rock ’n’ roll band appearing Friday night at the Milestone in Charlotte, gives credence to the notion that all Davidson English majors don’t turn into neo-hippies, work at Ralph Blakely’s organ shop, and smoke orange peels. No, these guys (Brian Butler — lead guitar, vocals; James Funsten — rhythm guitar, vocals; Tom Pafford — bass; and Joe Jaworski — drums) are all Davidson alumni, class of ’84. Butler and Jaworski formed Other Bright Colors last winter, and this summer, Butler,Funsten, Jaworski, and original bassist Steve Mank, a sophomore at Davidson replaced by Pafford when school began, lived at Fannie & Mable’s and played club dates around North Carolina and in Athens, Ga. The band opened for acts such as Love Tractor, the dB’s, and Oh-OK. Earlier this month, the band moved to Chapel Hill, N.C. Other Bright Colors creates a sound which, if it had to be defined (OBC hates labels), suggests a John Denver/Chris Difford/George Jones/R.E.M. combination. The real matter here, however, is that these Davidson gentlemen are serious, and when they speak of making it big, they mean it. As lead singer/English major Butler put it, “I want to make a lot of money so I don’t have to work anymore.” A pleasant thought, but there’s reason to believe in the Other Bright Colors’ optimism — WDAV currently lists the band’s Reflection Studio demonstration tape as a heavy rotator, and the sounds are professional, often dazzling, pairing subtle instrumentation with lush, layered harmonies. Backed by Joe Jaworski’s decisive, assured drumming and the jangly Funsten/Butler guitar duo, “Laura’s Symphony,” penned by Mank, lilts about haunting melodies and suggestive, obscure lyrics (“Laura’s symphonies are grand affairs/Laura’s symphonies aren’t there”) that stimulate and delight without making any linear “statement.” The sounds are habit-forming, and maybe even profitable. Other Bright Colors will perform tonight at The Milestone on 235 Tuckaseegee Road in Charlotte.

—Food By ANDREW WILSON

If your idea of a nice Saturday night dinner is a frozen pizza and/or a few cold ones (available at most area establishments), read no further. If your tastes tend toward draining Papa’s liquid assets by flashing his plastic all over Charlotte’s many fine establishments, by all means do so. But if you’re looking for a nice place to buy your free-time food and eat it too, listen up. Cashion’s Food Mart, Cornelius’ finest (and only) full-service grocery, now has a delicatessen. Cashion’s deli, which opened about three weeks ago, has a variety of pastries that would make Krispy Kreme cringe in shame, fried chicken that just might demote the Colonel to a Lieutenant, and a smorgasbord of meats and cheeses that make Hickory Farms look like, well, uh, Hickory Farms. The place is no New York deli, but one does not have to take a number or put up with elderly women carrying net reticules whose idea of fun is complaining about the price of prosciutto. The Cashion’s deli is open during regular store hours, includes a dining area, features lunch specials (one meat, two vegetables for about $3) served on a clean plate, and has at least one cheerful employee. Want to impress friends and feed acquaintances? Cashion’s Opens Delicatessen. Peggy Pierotti and Andrew Wilson sample Cashion’s delicacies. Cashion’s deli provides party trays or custom-made cakes on request. The deli also has stone-ground Canadian crackers, pita bread, and those darling little digital scales that carry the weight of your muenster to four decimals. Fun stuff. And best of all, Cashion’s has always taken anyone’s check. A big plus. Cashion’s is conveniently located on State Road 115 at the heart of scenic downtown Cornelius.

Jeff Mann