Friday, September 28, 1984 / The Davidsonian

OPINIONS

Mike Stephens

Often high school seniors who believe they have a reasonably good chance to be accepted into a fine institution of higher learning will visit guidance counselors to discuss possible choices or scan lengthy lists of the better—“More Competitive”—colleges and universities. Among those familiar with such schools, Davidson carries a well-deserved reputation of being one of our nation’s best liberal arts colleges; it is not uncommon, however, to find that those unassociated with the finer side of academia have never heard of Davidson College.

Though “National Reputation,” as it is euphemistically called, does not substantially affect the way a student enrolled in a given college will obtain his or her education, it is always nice to be recognized for personal achievement. I have often wanted to explain to the many people who ask if Davidson is a junior college or if we have a “real” campus that we are ranked in the top ten American liberal arts colleges, and that “Yes, we are a four-year school.” Usually, I resist the urge, not wanting to come across as arrogant or as an “intellectual snob.”

This summer, though, I realized the true value of a national reputation. I was not offered any lucrative position due to my academic status or recognized in any special way. My revelation was due mainly to a gas station attendant in Toccoa, Georgia whose name, as best as I could determine, was Whitney.

The day before the dorms opened this fall I was driving back from Atlanta with a car full of college stuff and, as I was soon to learn, a non-functional alternator. Anyone associated with automobile electrical systems will know that when your alternator is not working, you cannot burn the headlights for very long before the motor stops running. Such was the case, and by the time I got to Toccoa, almost 100 miles out of Atlanta, I realized I would need to seek the assistance of a higher mechanical authority than myself. It being Sunday night on the day before Labor Day, I was elated to see the glowing light of “Whitney's Exxon” ahead. As I pulled into the parking lot, my headlights and engine simultaneously died.

Out of the darkness came a voice. “Bad alternator?” it said. “I think so,” came my reply. “Foreign car, ain't it, son? Best I can do is to charge your battery and maybe you'll make it to Spartanburg.” While not thrilled with his response, I realized that I had thirty-two cents and an Exxon card to my name. The thought of a roadside stay in Toccoa was not pleasing, so I figured I'd take his advice. I could always pay for the battery charge with the gas card. “Go ahead,” I sighed, and I sat down on the front curb of the station to wait.

At 11 p.m. in Toccoa, eight or ten of the locals come down to Whitney’s Exxon to chew the fat for a while before going home for the night. Whitney is a nice old man, probably past retirement age, who seemed to enjoy this tradition. “College boy?” he asked me to break the silence. “Yes sir,” I mumbled back. “Where are you goin’?” I was positive I was going to have to swallow my collegiate pride once more, but since I had no alternatives for the next hour or so I answered. “Oh, you probably haven’t heard of it. It’s a small school in North Carolina.” “I don’t get to North Carolina much,” he said, “but try me.” He rolled a cigarette as I prepared. “Davidson College?” I said.

“Oh yeah,” he murmured. “Presbyterian school, ain't it?” “Yes!” I replied in amazement. “So did you know someone...” “Nope,” he said. “Just heard of it.” About that time one of Whitney's friends came from underneath the hood of my car. He was a husky gentleman who looked about 45. His white t-shirt was slightly soiled with the day’s work and his jeans bore witness to much use. “It's the alternator, all right,” he said. “The battery'll be done in about an hour.” “Thanks,” I responded. “Did you say you were a Davidson student?” he queried. “Yep,” Whitney said. “Fine academic school, Davidson,” he stated confidently. “Presbyterian, ain’t it?” When I replied that it was indeed a Presbyterian school and discovered that he had also “just heard of it” I understood the real value of a national reputation. I talked with Whitney for the rest of the hour about his family and then left feeling uplifted in a strange sort of way. I no longer cared so much whether or not anyone knew what a wonderful school Davidson was. It was enough for me to know that there are a few real people in Toccoa, Georgia who have “just heard of it.” He was right, by the way. I made it almost to Spartanburg.

National reputation is a thing to be cherished by those who send the school large sums of money so that we might have indoor tennis courts and a new academic complex. National reputation will draw distinguished speakers and public figures to our campus. National reputation will draw the cream of America’s students to Davidson for increased intellectual edification, but it isn’t, or shouldn’t be, a source of excessive pride or boasting. Davidson will remain on those little lists of competitive schools and will continue to be respected as a place where many successful people found their education. That, of course, is up to the people who take and use the money we send them each year and to us who, as students, must uphold the“Davidson tradition of excellence.” It is not, however, in any way related to whether or not anyone unassociated with the college has ever heard of it. It is nice to be recognized, but it is not necessary. I much prefer Davidson's quiet concern for a good education to seeing Wildcat bumper stickers on the cars I pass on the interstate. When I see one I honk, but I am otherwise content. 

Stephens is a sophomore from Roswell, Ga. and is Opinions editor of The Davidsonian.

Whites Must Change Future
Scott Sekerke

I would like to express some immediate reactions I had to Barry Elledge’s article (Sept. 21, Davidsonian). I think I must—as a white person—reveal some of these reactions, because (to quote Janet Stovall) “you [in this case Mr. Elledge] rankle when Black people place the blame for [inequality’s] existence and the responsibility for its demise on you.” As soon as a black person says that inequality exists and makes any reference to slavery (as Janet's article did), the immediate reaction is an argument based upon the invalidity of the idea of “inherited guilt.” I sincerely do not think that Janet is blaming us for the actions of our great-grandfathers. She is, however, noting the initial status structure under which blacks and whites first interacted—that of first class citizen to basically that of animals (in the white’s view). Whites cannot change the past, but we have to attempt to change the future; and we have to change it as a group. The issue is not how we as individuals act, it’s how we as white people act. Sorry to be so specific Mr. Elledge, but it is white people as a collective group that is the problem. While declaring our innocence of the past crimes of our forefathers, we commit new infractions of our own. Some of these are blatant racist practices; while others are more subtle. One of the more subtle is our willingness to be complacent and our willingness to remain ignorant. Why not be complacent when it’s not your fault as an individual? Why not remain ignorant when you truly know their feelings? Because if you are complacent, then it is partially your fault by your inaction. Because by thinking that you truly know their feelings, you show your ignorance. Both you and I do not know first-hand (and probably never will) the hell of living on the oppressed side of a racist society—and the only way we can get the best information is to ask. Although Janet Stovall’s proposal of directly asking a black person may seem far-fetched to the individual, what alternative plan could she have presented for us to acquire this information? She couldn't have suggested to take a Black Studies course, we have no Black Studies courses here. Or maybe instead of asking a black person, ask a well-informed white person? As stated above, no matter how well-informed that individual is, he/she does not know. Therefore, no matter how unrealistic Ms. Stovall's idea may sound, as of the present moment, it is the only feasible way to get a grasp of the situation. I would now like to address a seemingly logical point set forth by Barry Elledge. He says that “to demand [Ms. Stovall's proposal] of everyone is as if to say that the worthiness of other causes to which we might dedicate our time (peace, hunger, or education, for instance) are somehow secondary.” Mr. Elledge is correct in his statement in one respect; to Ms. Stovall and the blacks on this campus the other causes mentioned are secondary. They live in a racist society every day. We, as “concerned” whites, can whimsically choose different causes to follow. These causes are usually far-removed from our daily lives, while blacks must live concurrently with their “cause” every day. The distance of our causes from us makes them all the more appealing. Why should we confront a problem in our own backyard when we can discuss malnourishment in a country on the other side of the planet? This is why it’s so easy to have “interests elsewhere.” Shouldn't we better our own environment, confront the conflicts in our personal lives, before we attempt to better the rest of the world? Asking yourself this question with respect to the racial problem at Davidson, I think that you may also see the other causes as “secondary.” If not secondary in the terms of a value judgement, secondary in the respect that we can so directly confront this issue. As stated before, we whites have to be willing to change the future, and I can think of no better place to start than Davidson College.

Sekerke is a junior mathematics major from Richmond, VA.

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere to these four guidelines:
1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2) We require that letters be neatly typed.
3) We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors. The editors will maintain confidentiality.
4) We reserve the right not to print letters that:
   a) function as advertisements;
   b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes;
   c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in other letters printed on the same topic.