Friday, February 10, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Grapplers Down Hampden-Sydney

By KERRY BROWN

Coach Vince Arduini and his Davidson wrestling team recently found out just how tough the sporting life is in the
wild and vigorous collegiate wrestling world. The Wildcats disposed of Hampden-Sydney 30-17, but then Newport News Apprentice School devoured the
Cats. So where does this leave the Wildcat grapplers? Arduini and his team are now 5-5, and they must regroup
and continue their march to a winning season.

The grapplers found themselves without captain Tom Hissam against Hampden-Sydney and Newport News, but Hissam’s absence did not affect the
team’s performance. Mike Adams and Tom Cardwell picked up victories on charity due to forfeiture. While John Lay dragged Dick
Dragg into a pinning combination within five minutes, John Breidenstine and Mike Keeley won hard-fought matches. Like Adams and Cardwell,
Brian Rice won by forfeit. After the Cats defeated Hampden-Sydney, things seemed fine in the House of Arduini, but the
worst of times had yet to come for the Wildcat grapplers.

The Cats’ woes began when Newport News’ Richard Capps corralled Mike Adams for a pinning combination, and Tom Sheppard added
to the Cats’ problems by pinning Tom Cardwell within four minutes. Davidson victories came when Lay decisioned Scott Crissman 10-6,
and Mike Keeley pinned Danny Moretz. After Brian Rice was pinned by Newport News’ Ken Logan, a victory for Davidson
was out of sight.

Athlete Of The Week

This week’s Athlete of the Week is Amy Hartman, the sophomore point guard of the women’s basketball team. On consecutive
nights, Hartman scored 23 and 19 points, grabbed six rebounds per night and hit 8 of 8 free throws, while
playing all 80 minutes of the two games. Her shooting percentage of 56 percent (10 of 18) Tuesday night against
Greensboro was outstanding, especially compared against the team’s overall percentage of about 20 percent.

FILM DEVELOPING AND PRINTING

***A service resumed by popular request***

(This week only)
Introductory Special

$1.99 a roll*

ONE DAY SERVICE OR NO PAY!*

Prices & Delivery apply to 110, 126, 135, and Disc color film.

The Student Store

CARRY OUT 892-3820

~Oyster Bar~
MAIN STREET CORNELIUS

$2.39 Pitchers on Thursday... Before the Disco!

10% Discount for Students

Eggrolls and Professors
Shrimp on a Bun
Steamed Shrimp and Oysters
Complete Lunches and Dinners

Fresh Key Lime Pie

On Tuesday, February 14 There Will Be A Very Important Student Referendum

This coming Tuesday you will have the opportunity to vote for or against the new proposed By-laws for the College
Union.

Take the time to read the article about these By-laws in this edition of the Davidsonian. Drop by the Union
and read a summary of these new By-laws, or the entire document and vote on Tuesday—

IT'S YOUR UNION

VOTE YES ON TUESDAY

Wine & Dine Your Valentine

Trissy Lomax, owner

128 S. Main St. - Davidson, N.C. 28036
892-7521

Use your charge: VISA, MasterCard, Diners Club
