4 Wednesday, December 5, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Rhodes Announces Retirement After 24 Years
(continued from page 1)

Humanities, said, “I don’t know how he did it. That was before there were two separate chairmen in Humanities, and
I have enough to do as one of them now.”

Rhodes said Davidson students have always been of strong character and ability despite the College’s many changes. He believes the
College is and has been “on the right track” by promoting a liberal arts education. “I hope the College will
not allow the students to professionalize too much as undergraduates. The College should and does provide an environment to stimulate
the students’ view of the world for service to mankind. This preparation allows them to be top notch in their
professions but not just self-seeking.”

Everyone is obligated to raise intellectual questions in all areas of study and life, including religion, Rhodes said. “Davidson should
be a place where students are confronted with the claims of faith and mind,” he noted. He said he believes
Davidson’s vision of the compatibility of faith and reason is at the heart of what the school is all about.

Rhodes said he will continue to lecture and preach and also has several sermons and short stories he would like
to “get in good form” for his family. He said he and his wife have a few travel plans and
added, “She will retire this year, too.” Rhodes also plans to do some raised-bed gardening and to continue reading. He
stated, “I don’t have any radical plans. I’ll be here at Davidson still.”

At a Nov. 28 dinner, Rhodes said he felt very good about retiring and thought the stage was set for
the religion department to move ahead. As Polley commented, “The number of majors has

Schedule Changes
(continued from page 1)

classes.” He said most labs meet only once a week now, and afternoon classes would still be possible for those
people.

Laughlin said he has heard mixed feelings about the possible change. “We can’t make any recommendation without a resolution or
referendum.” He said the SGA would “have to see how far the revisions get in the Faculty Executive Committee to
see if a student referendum is appropriate.” The Faculty Executive Committee is considering the plan, which Terry said would, if
adopted, begin next year. According to Laughlin, “they may drop it or not; we'll have to see how they act
on it.” Both Terry and Psychology Professor and FEC member John Kelton said they have yet to hear reaction from
faculty members.

Race/Ethnic
(continued from page 1)

nth, Jackson, seniors Janet Stovall and Atondra Williams, junior Andrew Yon, SGA President John Laughlin, Dean of Students Will Terry,
Spanish Professor J. Alberto Hernandes-Chiroldes, Psychology Professor John Kelton, French Professor Lauren Yoder, and Vice-President of Academic Affairs and Dean
of Faculty T.C. Price Zimmermann.

Athletic Director
(continued from page 1)

tics, physical education, intramural, and club sports programs, Stroud said. The search began last spring when the Trustee Athletic Committee
decided to split the positions of head football coach and athletic director, both held by Ed Farrell. The positions had
been separate until the spring of 1981 when Eugene Bingham resigned from his position as athletic director. After an unsuccessful
attempt to find a new director, Farrell was designated as both acting athletic director and head football coach. The Trustees
later named Farrell athletic director.

In addition to Stroud, the search committee included tennis coach Jeff Frank, Dean of Students Will Terry, and English Professor
Gail Gibson.

Moved To Spring Term
By TED WILSON

The SGA will vote Tuesday on a motion to move the elections of Hobart Park and Quips and Cranks editors
from winter term to spring term. Yearbook editor Kathleen Micham said the elections “should be moved, as the next editors
don’t take office until June,” after the completion of this year's book. She said no one signed up during the
winter last year, so she signed up spring term.

Micham said “things are going well” with the yearbook and the staff is working diligently to meet their first deadline
which falls during Christmas break. She said “the sections editors are very optimistic” that they will be ready by December
14. She said if the staff meets all its deadlines “we'll have it [the book] out by September 1.” She
said the staff is “dedicated to get it done” on schedule.

Micham said, “we've had a huge problem with photography,” but once the difficulties are resolved, the staff should be able
to meet its deadlines, the final of which is June 1. Micham will not seek re-election as she plans to
spend her junior year in France. Elections for Hobart Park editors will probably also be movedTo the spring. Editor Jerry
Lilly plans to publish two issues of Hobart Park this year. He said, though he has not received a large
number of entries, “what I have so far is really good.” He said, “this week we're organizing the reading so
that over Christmas break, a consensus can be made as to what material is the best.” He plans to distribute
the first edition at the end of Winter term. Lilly attributes the smaller number of entries to lack of advertising.
He said there was “little time for soliciting and it was not well advertised.” He said he hopes the winter
edition will inspire students to contribute to the spring edition, which is scheduled to be distributed at the end of
the school year. “Spring issues usually have more entries,” he added. Lilly said this year's issues will be smaller than
in the past “since our budget is not as large as last year’s.”

Grown from zero when Rhodes started (Rhodes began the program that allowed students to major in religion at Davidson) to
30 some-odd now.” Polley said the department is stronger now than it has ever been. All the same, as Maloney
said, Davidson will miss Rhodes. “Rhodes is a Lincoln-esque figure. His judgment is always sound, and he has been like
a father to us,” he said. Rhodes has preached and taught all over the state. He has studied on sabbaticals
in the Middle East through the University of Chicago and London. He wrote a study book for the women of
the Presbyterian Church, and continues to write sermons and short stories. A native of Rocky Point, North Carolina, he received
his A.B. degree at Davidson in 1938. He taught for three years at Glade Valley School before attending Louisville Presbyterian
Seminary where he earned his B.D. in 1944. At Duke University, Rhodes earned his Ph.D. in American Religious Thought. He
was a professor of Bible and Philosophy at Davidson Elkin College from 1947-53 and at Southwestern in Memphis from 1953-60.
During his time at Davidson Elkin, Rhodes was also Dean of Students for three years. In 1960, he returned to
his alma mater as Professor of Religion and Philosophy.

More than 300,000 Americans — not including members of the armed services — are now living overseas. These people are
engaged in nearly every possible activity... construction, engineering, sales, transportation, secretarial work, accounting, manufacturing, oil refining, teaching, nursing, government, etc.
And many are earning $2,000 to $5,000 per month... or more! To allow you the opportunity to apply for overseas
employment, we have researched and compiled a new and exciting directory on overseas employment. Here is just a sample of
what our International Employment Directory covers.

(1). Our International Employment Directory lists dozens of cruise ship companies, both on the east and west coast. You will
be told what type of positions the cruise ship companies hire, such as deckhands, restaurant help, cooks, bartenders, just to
name a few. You will also receive several Employment Application Forms that you may send directly to the companies you
would like to work for.

(2). Firms and organizations employing all types of personnel in Australia, Japan, Africa, The South Pacific, The Far East, South
America... nearly every part of the free world!

(3). Companies and Government agencies employing personnel in nearly every occupation, from the unskilled laborer to the college-trained professional man
or woman.

(4). Firms and organizations engaged in foreign construction projects, manufacturing, mining, oil refining, engineering, sales, services, teaching, etc.

(5). How and where to apply for overseas Government jobs.

(6). Information about summer jobs.

(7). You will receive our Employment Opportunity Digest... jam-packed with information about current job opportunities. Special sections feature news of
overseas construction projects, executive positions, and teaching opportunities.

90 Day Money Back Guarantee

Our International Employment Directory is sent to you with this guarantee. If for any reason you do not obtain overseas
employment or you are not satisfied with the job offers... simply return our Directory within 90 days and we'll refund
your money promptly... no questions asked.

ORDER FORM
International Employment Directory
Please send me a copy of your International Employment Directory. I understand that I may use this information for 90
days and if I am not satisfied with the results, I may return your Directory for an immediate refund. On
that basis, I'm enclosing $20.00 cash... check... or Money order... for your Directory.

Please print
NAME
ADDRESS
APT #
CITY
STATE
ZIP

International Employment Directory
131 Elma Dr. Dept. T21
Centralia, WA 98531

1984 OVERSEAS EMPLOYMENT
WORLD-WIDE OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEN AND WOMEN!
JAPAN - EUROPE - AFRICA - AUSTRALIA - THE SOUTH PACIFIC - SOUTH AMERICA - THE FAR EAST.
EXCELLENT BENEFITS. HIGHER SALARIES AND WAGES! FREE TRANSPORTATION! GENEROUS VACATIONS!
