10 Friday, February 10, 1984/The Davidsonian

—From The Locker Room

A National Perspective On Davidson Athletics

By STEVE SOUD

Amid all the fanfare, flurry, and forumizing over the role of athletics at Davidson, little effort has been put forth to understand Davidson's predicament in a national perspective. Any such undertaking must seek to understand Davidson through a variety of milieux: Davidson as a Southern Conference member, the Southern Conference as an NCAA member, and Davidson as an extraordinarily selective institution.

As a member of the Southern Conference, Davidson enjoys many privileges it considers indispensable to its aspirations in athletics: automatic berths in the NCAA basketball tournament and College World Series for the conference champions, the potential for all-conference honors for Davidson’s athletes, and television revenue-sharing with the other conference members. Moreover, none of the conference schools is more than a six-hour drive away. On the other hand, however, the Southern Conference requires that Davidson, a non-scholarship football program, compete against IAA national powers (such as Furman) which give 75 full scholarships. The Southern Conference, despite its Division I standing, plays a minor role in the overall scheme of the NCAA. (If there were any doubts concerning that point, the NCAA dispelled them last year by unconditionally relegating the SC to IAA football.)

It seems to me that the conferences of the NCAA can be subdivided into three categories: small (sub-10,000 students per institution), medium (10-20,000 spi), and large (more than 20,000 spi). The Southern Conference, with 5,772 spi, falls under the “small” category. The ACC and the Mid-American are examples of medium-sized conferences, and the PAC-10 (24,900 spi) and the Big 10 (31,050 spi) are examples of the large size. Many other conferences compare to the Southern in size, including the Ivy League (6,262 spi), the ECAC-North (8,333 spi), the ECAC-South (8,250 spi), and the Trans-America Conference (4,744 spi).

But how does Davidson, a small, outstanding academic institution, compare with analogs in similar straits in other conferences? Consider these schools: Colgate University (Hamilton, NY), Columbia University (NYC), Dartmouth College (Hanover, NH), Rice University (Houston, TX), and Northwestern University (Evanston, IL).

Colgate: Enrollment: 2700. Conference: ECAC-North. App. Median SAT: 1250. Colgate has the good fortune not to have to play the rest of its Division I conference in football. But it does play IAA football (Davidson’s level), and it plays the game well; in 1983 Colgate was 8-3 in the regular season. Like Davidson football, Colgate offers only need-based scholarships; however, it has 60 “equivalencies” of full scholarships to dole out. Most IAA schools offer 75 full scholarships, given regardless of need. Colgate’s football program receives $684,000 to give out to players, but only on the basis of need. This gives a full-scholarship school a distinct advantage over Colgate when a player has little or no need. (Whereas the football team can distribute that money to as many players as it likes, the basketball team can give only 15 full or partial scholarships. At present, Colgate has eight basketball players on need-based scholarships, totaling about $71,000.)

Another reason Colgate does so well is its unique method of “slots” in the admissions process. According to Associate Athletic Director Brad Houston, the football program establishes how many players it will need in an entering class, and the program requests that the admissions people reserve that number of slots. Admissions defines what is reasonable: usually 20-25 slots are requested and granted. The students filling the slots are capable of handling the workload, but they are ones who might have been wait-listed under the regular admissions process.

Interestingly, Colgate plays only three of its 11 football games at home, where it fills less than half of its 12,000-seat stadium. They get more money through gate receipts on the road. Generally, they schedule three games they can win, three games that are competitive, three challenges, and two “kickers.” They play the Ivies and two or three IA schools — an attraction to recruits. In 1983 they played at IA Wyoming and profited monetarily, and then beat Army, also a IA school. Not including scholarships and salaries, Colgate puts $203,000 in football, $49,000 in basketball, and about $150,000 into its 12 other intercollegiate sports. There is, however, little friction between Colgate’s faculty and athletic department. Said Houston, “They know academics are first priority and athletics are second.”

Columbia: Enrollment: 3000. Conference: Ivy League. App. Median SAT: 1250. Members of the Ivy League offer only need-based scholarships, but Columbia’s soccer team went all the way to the NCAA finals this year. According to Athletic Director Al Paul, Columbia achieved that through “hard work” and an outstanding coach, Dieter Ficken. The team gave students a real rallying point. They had the school’s first pep rallies in Paul’s ten years, and students took several buses down to Fort Lauderdale, site of the national championship game. This sort of program offers hope for Davidson’s nonrevenue sports.

Dartmouth: Enrollment: 4000. Conference: Ivy League. App. Median SAT: 1250. Dartmouth budgets about $3.3 million for athletics, but makes about $1.1 million back in revenues. They offer a phenomenal 32 varsity sports, the best-budgeted of which are football($280,000), basketball ($51,000), and ice hockey ($48,000). The college makes money on hockey, where they reap $112,000 in revenues. Much of this is due to the fact that it costs students $5.00 to go to a game, or $30.00 for a complete-season basketball/hockey pass. But their 3,500-seat ice arena is often filled, despite Hanover’s rural location. All scholarships are need-based. Consequently, the football program demands less from its players than a scholarship program: there's no spring football, for instance. But, as Associate Athletic Director Ray Whiteman contends, although non-scholarship programs can fare well in national competition, success is erratic. “When you’re a non-scholarship school, things run more in cycles,” he said. “Scholarship schools can maintain continuity.” Harvard’s hockey team, for instance, was runner-up for last year’s national championship, but this year is not faring nearly as well. Many of Dartmouth’s programs are endowed, and have been for 30 to 40 years. Although this has not presented a problem for Dartmouth, Whiteman warns, “I’ve seen schools where people [alumni] who give money want to have input in the program.”

Rice: Enrollment: 3,000. Conference: Southwest. App. Median SAT: 1300. Rice has a very tough assignment. Its student-to-SWC ratio is about one to seven times Rice’s enrollment. Still, Rice perseveres. Rice was a charter member of the SWC, it reaps about $1 million in television and bowl game revenues, and the SWC offers Rice teams — both revenue and non-revenue — easy scheduling. The expense is great, however. Of a $3 million budget, $1 million goes to football (including 95 scholarships), $230,000 to basketball (15 scholarships), and $100,000 to baseball (scholarships). Owl baseball is ranked 12th preseason. 

But according to Athletic Director Augie Erfurth, Rice has, in the last six months, haggled over the academic-athletic debate. It was finally decided that Rice could place more emphasis on athletics without compromising academics. Erfurth contends, “Any strong program — whether chemistry or athletics — will attract good chemistry majors and also affect certain students that want to go to a school with a winning tradition in athletics, even if they don’t participate in athletics.” Or for that matter, chemistry. Rice’s football signees for this year averaged around 1060 SATs, not jeopardizing academic excellence. They’ve started improving facilities, and expect to upgrade a 34-year-old basketball arena seating 5,200 to a new, 7,000-8,000 seat arena. Two years ago the booster club began endowing some scholarships, but Rice has had no problem with policy interference from them. Rice’s decision to augment athletics without compromising academics is an answer to a question Davidson currently asks. Davidson would not have nearly the expense Rice has, but Rice’s example suggests academics don’t have to be compromised.

Northwestern: Enrollment: 7,000. Conference: Big 10. App. Median SAT: 1250. Northwestern has begun an extensive revitalization program from which Davidson can learn. Three years ago Northwestern was last in everything (90 strokes in golf). This year its soccer team qualified for the Big 10 tournament, tennis finished second, baseball third, and golf is expected to be in the top four. The track team recently won its first dual meet in many years. At first a Davidson-Northwestern comparison doesn’t seem reasonable. But Davidson’s student-to-conference ratio (1:4.3) resembles Northwestern’s (1:4.4). Davidson is to the Southern Conference as Northwestern is to the Big 10.

Northwestern began with a $21 million investment to rebuild its facilities. Rich Cortey, a Stanford Law graduate who first heard of Davidson circa 1970 through our basketball program, now works with Northwestern’s budgeting and planning. He says that good facilities “are part of a foundation you're laying. You can have the greatest coach in the world, but you can’t recruit into facilities that are second rate.” The Wildcats used to play basketball in an arena with a dirt floor, upon which they placed a portable court much like the one Davidson uses in Charlotte. According to Cortey, by the end of the game one could hardly see across the arena for the dust. They’ve since improved upon that.

Northwestern re-established its goals. “We decided we can compete,” explains Cortey. “We do it without compromising, and that’s the key. We don’t cheat; we’re proud of that.” Northwestern is the only Big 10 member which tests its coaches and administration on NCAA and Big 10 policies. Although expenses have increased, revenues have increased as well. “We cost less now than when we got here,” Cortey claims. Rewards are not immediate, but gradual. Cortey thinks that in three years Northwestern can recoup its $9 million per year athletic budget (by far the lowest in the Big 10). “But that’s with a caveat,” he explained. “Every service we provide [leisure activities, etc.] is a service to the students, and that includes a fair market value rate for the facilities.”

Finally, Cortey advised, “If you’re gonna do anything, do it the best you can. Don’t be content with running the middle of the road. Do it the best you can or get out.”

Next week: The other option — highly selective Division III schools such as Amherst, Carleton, and Williams.