THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXIII, Number 13
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, January 20, 1984

PAC Proposes New Faculty Evaluation Procedure
By DAVID RESNIK

The Professional Affairs Committee, the faculty, the SGA, and the Administration have reached a tentative agreement on a new student faculty evaluation form and new evaluation procedures. Representatives from the SGA and the new Administration met with the PAC to discuss its new proposal on Monday. PAC Chairman and religion professor Alexander McKelway hopes to have the PAC’s proposal distributed to the faculty by this afternoon.

The faculty will have an open meeting next week, and they will vote on the proposal at their next meeting on Feb. 7. The first section of the two-part form asks students to write two short essays evaluating positive and negative aspects of the course and instruction. The second section consists of fourteen short answer questions pertaining to the course and instruction.

Instead of evaluating professors every term, which the old procedures required, the new procedure would have faculty members evaluated three times (once every two years) before they receive tenure. After professors obtain tenure they would be evaluated once every four years. By not evaluating professors every term, McKelway explained, the new procedure will help to reduce Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann’s workload, although it will require more work than a simple quantitative form. “We need to have something practical but also meaningful,” McKelway said.

If the faculty approves the proposal, then a copy of the PAC’s report will be attached to the Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures. According to the proposal, student agents will distribute the evaluation forms and deliver the completed forms to the office of the Dean of the Faculty during the last week of each term. The Dean will return the forms to the instructors after grades have been turned in, and the Dean will not examine the forms unless they are submitted to the administration for review.

Students accept responsibility for their evaluations by signing their evaluation forms. Student names may be revealed in accordance with Article 10 of the College Constitution or under Court subpoena. Questions for the prose section were based on the PAC’s original prose draft, and some of the short answer questions were drawn from the SGA’s proposed faculty evaluation form.

SGA President Hunter Monroe said he was pleased with the new form. “I don’t know if it’s the best form,” he said, “but it’s one the PAC and Zimmermann agree on.” Monroe added that the PAC has been “very receptive to students” and has acknowledged “the students’ desire.”

Faculty Research Group: Informal Gatherings Offer Interdisciplinary Forum
By TED WILSON

Each month, a group of Davidson professors informally gathers for snacks and the presentation of a colleague’s article or paper. The Faculty Research Group, currently led by history professor Peter Krentz and classics professor Dirk French, hears papers on subjects ranging from “Jesse and Rosicrucianism” to “Tripping the Light Fantastically.”

According to Krentz, the group is open to all faculty members interested in presenting a paper on the results of their research. Those professors who just want to listen in are welcome as well. Krentz said the group has two main functions. He said it provides a forum in which one “can present his results to an audience of intelligent people in different fields.” He added, “It also gives the faculty a chance to get to know each other better, and in a different way. We learn what people are excited about.”

Krentz said presentations are based on “scholarly research” and are not simply general speeches. “Most of the papers that are presented and discussed are eventually published in magazines. However, some are less formal, as they don’t have to be written out,” he said. Professors discuss...the paper after its presentation. “Papers aren't heavily criticized, though,” Krentz noted. “It’s not a cut-down type thing. We're a supportive [group of] interested faculty who want to encourage each other to do research.” “It’s rare that someone flat out disagrees with the speaker. [We sometimes] ask clarification questions and sometimes there’s a suggestion that the guy didn’t think of,” Krentz said. Professors may also suggest ideas for additional research. Krentz finds “the group as an important yardstick. One problem is that people think they can’t make [their research] understood by the group” and hence hesitate to join the group. “But, if he can’t, how can he make it understood by his students?” He said the group is “a healthy thing for everyone to have to give a talk to intelligent people who are not in the speaker’s field.” Learning to present results effectively to the group, Krentz believes, can help in teaching students. “We must have the ability to get our point across to others,” he said. Krentz feels it is important for the faculty to be involved in research and to incorporate their research into their teaching.

Peggy Pierotti to have a new form in place.” The SGA’s faculty evaluation committee will meet again to discuss the new form and procedure. Monroe said a Senate endorsement of the proposal “is not necessary” since the issue has already been resolved “diplomatically.” The faculty discarded the old Illinois Course Evaluation forms on Feb. 1, 1983. The faculty approved a prose evaluation form to replace the ICES form, but the Administration rejected the form on the grounds that it would take too much time to evaluate.

Resident Plans To Open Bed-And-Breakfast Inn
By DAVID McGEE

A bed-and-breakfast inn may be built in downtown Davidson if resident Thomas Clark can overcome zoning problems. Clark hopes to locate the inn on North Main Street property he recently bought. “We have the Guest House,” Clark said, “but it does not have a restaurant, and you can’t phone people who are staying there. When I was a student at Davidson, my parents had to stay in Mooresville when they came to visit.” Although Clark’s venture is still in the planning stage, he wants the inn to have “as much Davidsoniana as possible — old annuals, old Davidsonians, old Davidsonian reporters,” he said. Clark said he got the idea to build an inn here after visiting campuses with similar facilities. He has received many suggestions on what the inn should be like, and he will soon distribute a questionnaire to town residents. “This won't be a success unless the town supports it,” he said. Clark has purchased property extending from the Davidson Landing office to Parks-Rexall Drug Store on North Main Street. However, the Davidson Town Board passed a zoning ordinance at their December meeting restricting various types of businesses from the downtown area including motels. Clark asked the board at their January meeting to make changes in their zoning ruling so that he may carry out plans for his inn. “The town is interested in supporting its downtown plan. The board will decide whether it [Clark's proposal] is compatible with the town’s plan,” Davidson Mayor Nancy MacCormac said.

(Continued on page 4)

Inside This Week
-Make My Day: Student officer studies people. Page 3
-Workshop: student directors describe their craft. Commentaries on the first productions, too. Page 6
-Rebel: James Dean wins his struggle for maturity. Page 7
-Sci Fi: Up-and-coming Jack Chalker to speak next week. Page 8
-Hawgs?: Faculty and staff call the Super Bowl. Page 10
-Born: “Blue Collar Player” jams. Page 11
-Dizzy Disney: Is there justice? Page 13

Friday the 13th had to get us in one way or another. Last Friday's torrential ice hurricane delayed delivery of the paper until the following balmy and icicle-free Saturday the 14th. We're sorry about the inconvenience.