Friday, September 28, 1984 / The Davidsonian 5

Anorexia, Bulimia Becoming Serious Davidson Problems

continued from page 1

and a relapse during times of stress — like around exams — is common,” she said.

She believes that the high incidence of eating disorders on her hall is not unusual. All three women came to Davidson with anorexia. One overcame symptoms of anorexia but became bulimic.

Though bulimia is not as life-threatening, many experts believe it is such a serious problem because so many women are doing it, and if the bulimic is discreet, she can go for six to eight years without being noticed. Both all-female eating houses have had incidents of members throwing up in the bathrooms after meals.

Ann Davis, a psychologist in the counseling center, is new to Davidson, but she has dealt extensively with eating disorders in her Charlotte practice. She said victims of the disorders are anxious to please other people, and they look to others for a standard. They even feel superior to others because they are so successful — too successful — in controlling their weight.

“While the anorectic restricts food because she’s afraid if she eats she'll get out of control, the bulimic binges, usually in times of stress, and believes that by purging, she has found a solution to her problem. She can eat without getting fat,” Davis explained. “But the solution becomes the problem. Purging is a release, and it’s addictive.”

There exists a dangerous tendency for friends to ignore these problems unintentionally, Davis said. But Ross and Davis cite bulimics who said after treatment that they could not believe no one caught on to their behavior earlier. Often the bulimic is careless about cleaning up to alert others to her problem, but she still cannot verbally ask for help.

Therefore it is essential that friends pay attention to any strange eating habits, bizarre ideas about food, skipping meals or disappearing after meals, Davis said. Though it is difficult, confronting the victim is the first step toward getting her professional help, according to Ross and Davis.

Ross recalls one student who came to Davidson with anorexia, but her family and doctor refused to acknowledge it. “Finally after three years she admitted to herself that she needed help, and she went away to receive treatment. She experienced a great recovery, and returned her senior year, but greatly regretted ‘missing’ three years of college,” Ross said. “She urged me and others to continue to intervene until these women admit the problem and can begin to get help.”

An organization in Charlotte called Anorexia Nervosa And Other Disorders (ANAD) aims to help those suffering from eating disorders and maintains a Hotline to answer questions concerning anorexia and related diseases.

CAREERS and PROFESSIONAL GRADUATE PROGRAMS

Peggy Pierotti

Dr. George Labban

Labban Retires After 32 Years

continued from page 1

He was named chairman of the new Classics department which began offering a major in Classics approximately four years later.

Another change in Labban’s career came with the advent of the Humanities program. As a member of the committee which designed the program and an instructor for its first 20 years, Labban realized that the creation of the program “reflected a desire to be progressive. I don’t regret participating in any degree — it was challenging and rewarding, but the workload was unreal.”

“I know I was considered a hard professor,” Labban added, “but I would have felt like I was shortchanging any student in my class if I wasn’t.”

In 1969 Labban acted as resident professor in Montpellier, France. This venture gave him a chance to solidify his ideas for a Classics seminar abroad in Greece and Italy. “It was performed in the spring of the year I submitted the proposal,” Labban said. “That first year I took seven boys. I've always gotten good response from the students — later I set the minimum number of students at 10, and the largest group I ever took was 14.”

When asked about his retirement, Labban said, “I don't like it worth a damn at this point.” Aside from the classes and discussions, he added that “I miss just the excitement of working with college-age students — they kept my mind young and involved. It's electrifying to have so many things to think about.”

Senior Classics major Marshall Johnston said fondly of his former professor, “The Lebanese Wildman was incredibly proficient. His retirement has broken up one of the most coherent classics departments around.”

“At this point my physical condition has priority over everything.” Labban said about his future plans. “When the time does come, however, then I will give thought to speaking with several persons who have come to me about getting involved.”

GOVERNMENT & INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS

CAREERS IN BUSINESS MANAGEMENT

Challenging opportunities are offered in the following areas of business management:

An informal discussion with representatives of both the

John F. Kennedy School of Government Public Policy Program HARVARD UNIVERSITY

Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs PRINCETON UNIVERSITY

Visit with representatives of the U.S. Navy Supply Corps to learn how your degree in accounting, economics, business administration, computer science, or engineering can prepare you for an exciting business career.

Date: Mon., Nov. 12 Time: 9:30-10:30 & 10:30-11:30 groups Place: Morrison Room Presentation: October 2 4:00 p.m. College Union Interviews: October 3

All years, all majors welcome. For additional information, please contact your school's Career Development/Placement Office. An Equal Opportunity Employer