Friday, February 10, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Recognize The Community’s Needs
Beth Maczka

When I first heard about the alumni plan to buy up housing on Griffith Street in order to improve the
entrance to the College, I was shocked to know that the school supported the group in its endeavor. This situation
is not one to be taken lightly. I was pleased with The Davidsonian’s fine coverage of the issue, and particularly
the editorial concerning the need for better communication with the Davidson community. Indeed, lack of communication is at the heart
of this difficult problem. Unfortunately, my understanding of the issue as expressed to me by community members is that the
effort to clarify the situation has been largely one-sided. The Griffith Street residents have sought answers and have been dissatisfied.
Yes, they are suspicious and yes, they do feel that the College is against them.

There comes a point when we must decide how far-reaching Davidson's value system extends. I believe that if our Statement
of Purpose is really as noble as we all hope, that it can at least cross the railroad tracks that
divide our town physically, racially, and economically. The College has a responsibility to our community and particularly to the people
who have served it for years. I do recognize that Davidson College has responded to many of the community’s needs.
However, the doubts and fears that have been expressed by the people who have been asked to move from Griffith
Street can no longer be ignored. If the alumni group is really seeking to improve the community, these fears need
not exist. Considering the resources, concern, and motivations of Griffith Street Properties, Inc., there must be constructive alternatives to relocating
a neighborhood. After all, these are not merely “eyesores”; these are families and homes, and needs that must be met
— that can be met if better cooperation between both sides is achieved. The cooperative effort, however, must now come
from the College.

I recently received a letter from a friend who shares my concerns for our community. Pete Skillern is now spending
his junior year at St. Andrew's University in Scotland. Knowing Pete, I wish he were here to become concerned, involved,
and excited about the potential our community has for improvement. I want to share part of Pete’s letter with the
College and community, particularly because it addresses the situation on Griffith Street. He writes of needs and responsibility, values and
priorities:

Enclosed is a list of ten social changes that need to be made at Davidson. Big changes. I hope you
can read them. I wrote this in my journal in Luxor, Egypt. I was sitting above the worst, most extreme
poverty I’ve ever encountered. These changes need publicity and (another) community to work on getting the administration and Trustees to
work on them. The short speech is justifying these changes.

1. Use trust fund to influence banks holding Davidson funds not to invest in unethical economies, i.e., NCNB in South
Africa.
2. Use trust funds in a human investment scheme, i.e., lend money at no interest for new or renovated homes.
3. Use of College land for community use, i.e., parks.
4. Abolish all holdings in condemned housing that is rented... (using all resources for community and not letting resources lie
unused at others’ expense of need).
5. Provide higher education for janitors and hourly wage earners.
6. Guaranteed pensions, insurance, and minimum salary for cooks on [Patterson] court.
7. Invest money and especially people in adult, teenage, and childhood education supplementing government and community programs and initiating programs,
i.e., shared mini courses of skills and academics, discussion groups between college community and residential community.
8. Conscious awareness and reconsideration of court lifestyle and placement of monies.
9. Town affirmative action in establishing Davidson blacks in new town-store development. College may provide no-interest loans.
10. Ensure that the new town development and private interests don’t displace black and poor white communities, i.e., Trustees buying
up land to clean up the entrance to Davidson-Griffith Street.

Davidson is not a philanthropic institution, nor is it a social change institution. Its main purpose is to educate. But
it is also an institution that must be responsible to the community that it incorporates. Davidson is aligned with Christian
ideals which call for social and moral responsibility to equality and justice, both locally and in the world. Its role
as a teacher must teach its students by example.If we are concerned with being number one in Living Endowments, Rhodes
Scholars, SAT averages, basketball, and eating and gym facilities, then we should also be involved in becoming a leader of
educational institutions working for a better society, acting more than just as an institution but as a creative, positive, moral
force outside and including its educational purpose. Perhaps these are more fundamental and lasting changes that need to be made
which demand a higher priority of time and energy.

My personal feeling concerning the Griffith Street issue is one of frustration. The issue is not just Griffith Street; it
involves the entire attitude, motivations, and goals of the College community. Halfway around the world, Pete Skillern saw there the
need for change here. We, likewise, as responsible and moral members of the Davidson community, must reexamine our value system
so as to incorporate all of our fellow members, to realize their needs, and to seek out compassionate ways of
meeting them.

Beth Maczka is a junior Center major from Houston, TX, and is Y-Student Service Corps President. Pete Skillern is a
junior Center major from Stone Mountain, GA, and is spending his junior year in Scotland.

Race Problems Require Action
Janet Stovall

Well son, let me tell you — life for me ain't been no crystal stair...
—Langston Hughes

Being Black at Davidson is no easy road. I’ve only been saying that on every available soapbox since I came
here as a freshman, and I suppose a lot of people here are ready to cry, “Enough — we're sick
of your bellyaching!” and then there are those who say, “We’re so sorry for you!” I don't care about your
exasperation and I don’t need your pity. What I — and all black students — need is action. We need
to have some things changed drastically and expediently.

There are a great many uneducated people here at Davidson. Indeed, this place is one of the remaining bastions of
selective ignorance. Davidson has no commitment to its Black students, and we know that. Of course, Davidson doesn’t owe us
anything — but please don’t expect any great shows of loyalty from us. Some may believe that the fact that
Blacks are here at all is some great achievement for which we should be eternally grateful. Well, it isn’t and
we aren’t.

When I speak of commitment, I mean doing more than accepting Blacks. Davidson does nothing to meet the special needs
of its Black students, but it expects us to do exceptional things. We have two Black professors, one Black administrator,
and no Black studies courses of any kind. Consequently, we have almost no Black role models, and we are forced
to deal with a darkening cloud of ignorance which some knowledge of the Black experience in America could dissipate.

People are always asking me, “OK; now what do we do about this?” What you do, Davidson, is cease all
this lip service about commitment and act! If Davidson wants Black professors, it is going to have to do something
to make this place attractive to Black professionals. I constantly find myself awed by the ignorance that abounds here. It
is so easy for you to simply ignore us, to hold firmly to your uninformed and stereotypical views. You don’t
have to deal with me — I am forced to deal with you. Consequently, I know you better than you
can ever know me; perhaps better than you know yourselves.

You will never know, you can never understand the frustration with which a Black man or woman must face Davidson
each day. This is not my culture, not my life — and nobody gives a damn. Again, that’s your right
— but please forgive me if I don't smile and try to make your guilty consciences feel at ease. That
is where the commitment comes, that is where I’m calling in your debt to me, Davidson — make this place
a healthy environment for everyone.

The majority of people at Davidson are content to exist in a daze of unconcern. Many of you never thought
that racial problems existed here — now you know that they do. And by now, you should know that solutions
exist. It's up to you, Davidson; we cannot do it alone.

Janet Stovall is an English major from Rocky Mount, NC.
