4 Friday, May 4, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Dr. Clark Ross discusses Gambia River Basin Project with a colleague

Ross, Africans Discuss Self-Sufficiency Project

By DAVID McGEE

Economics Professor Clark Ross's project for self-sufficiency in The Gambian River Basin, located on the west coast of Africa, is near completion. The project consists of computer models of the Basin’s three main economic activities: agriculture, forestry, and livestock. Senior Hunter Monroe has written the computer programs for the project since his sophomore year.

Two of Ross’s colleagues from Africa, Douda Jawarwa from The Gambia and Mamour Gaye from Senegal, were on campus this week to help prepare the project for a presentation before the member nations in the project. Three countries share The Gambia River Basin area: Guinea, Senegal, and The Gambia. The Basin has a population of about 2,000,000.

Ross, Jawarwa, and Gaye are members of the Gambia River Basin Development Organization (OMVG), which is attempting to improve water resources, income distribution, and levels of livestock, forestry, and agricultural production through long-term development. Ross said the OMVG is also trying to deal with the Basin’s problems of overpopulation, limited natural resources, undependable rainfall, deforestation, and high levels of poverty. “With the area’s limited resources, there are not a whole lot of choices for development,” Ross said.

The computer models predict the impact on labor and land productivity when resource inputs are varied. Jawarwa and Gaye have spent most of the week clearing up ambiguities in the programs and planning how to transfer the programs and data onto the computers in the OMVG offices in Senegal. When they return to Senegal, Jawarwa and Gaye will implement data on the Basin area in the programs.

“I am grateful I had an opportunity to do this,” Monroe said. He went to Africa for the first time the summer after his freshman year. “It [the trip] awakened me to the problems of the Third World — they are very grim.”

Trustees Consider Merit-Based Financial Aid

By DAVID VAN PELT

The Board of Trustees will consider expanding its non-need-based financial aid program during its May meeting, according to Dean of Admissions John Griffith. Last fall interim President Frontis Johnson appointed a committee to examine the role of financial aid at Davidson in light of the increase in merit scholarships throughout the country, according to Griffith. This committee, with input from the Faculty Committee on Admission and Financial Aid, drafted a proposal which calls for an increase in merit scholarships without diverting funds from existing financial aid programs. The proposal was discussed at the February Trustees meeting, and will be considered again at this month’s meeting.

The proposal is “designed to address the maintenance of an excellent student body in a period of intense competition,” Griffith said. Griffith said an increasing number of superior students are lured away from Davidson by merit scholarships from other schools. “Students often turn down scholarships to come here,” he said. “Research indicates that’s beginning to change.” Griffith mentioned Amherst and Hamilton as other liberal arts colleges considering increases in merit scholarship funding.

Griffith emphasized that such a program, if enacted, would in no way...- hamper Davidson's need-based aid program: a B. Carroll Overton Commons To Break Even

By FRANCES PALMER

When the class of 1984 graduates on May 27, the remaining memories of Richards and Bailey food will graduate with them. This year marks the end of the Vail Commons’ third year at Davidson. According to food services Director Carlton Pritchard, the food services are operated on a “break-even budget,” rather than for profit. Although the Commons did not break even during its first year, it did last year, and “this year we expect it to break even as well,” he said.

Pritchard said that income results primarily from direct student and faculty use. “Four percent of the total could be termed local business,” he said. This includes banquets and other functions from the Davidson community. He stated further that 12 percent of the total volume comes from banquets connected with alumni, the societies, and various organizations, recruitment, and the senior class banquet.

Pritchard feels that the food services are “absolutely” more efficient than they were the first year. He commented, “we have learned to operate it well.” He attributes much of the increased efficiency to the students who work for the food services. He said, overall, Dining Services employs about 85 students at the Commons, Union Café, and 900 Room. In the three years of operation, the food services have enlarged student employment but not professional employees, he said. He added that the students are particularly helpful when catering.

In addition, Pritchard said, fewer eating houses this year have increased the number of upperclassmen at the Commons only slightly, because members of the closed eating houses split between the other houses and the Commons. During fall term there were 260 upperclassmen, but he said that has dropped to approximately 200 this term. He expects the number will stay about the same for next year. “I think the houses are retaining excellent strength and will keep retaining strength. By the same token, the Commons offers a wholesome alternative,” he said.

In looking toward the future, Pritchard anticipates a change to computerized menu planning. He also hopes they can create a different, more international atmosphere at the Union Café and give it “a little pizazz.”