10 Friday, April 6, 1984/The Davidsonian

The Locker Room
By STEVE BYERS

The national pastime is back. Billy Packer, Hoya Paranoia, and shot clocks are out. Joe Garagiola, the Phillie Phanatic, and rain delays are in. Spring training is over, and that young phenom who looked so promising three weeks ago somehow missed the final cut and will open his season in front of 5000 in Pawtucket, instead of 50,000 at Yankee Stadium.

In April the contenders and the pretenders come out of the woodwork. Every team boasts that it will still be around when the weather turns cooler and the leaves begin to fall. But, as most of these teams will realize, “It’s a long way to October.” Major League Baseball has the longest regular season — by far — of any professional sport. This is a game of endurance and consistency, not momentum and luck. Sure, there are hot streaks and there are slumps, but over 162 games the cream is bound to rise to the top.

You have your superstars, of course, like Dale Murphy or Cal Ripken, Jr., but baseball is designed so that no one player can dominate as in basketball. It must be a combination of individual talents skillfully molded into a true team. Witness the Baltimore Orioles of last year — two legitimate all-stars surrounded by an assorted cast of no-names and never-will-be’s who always seem to deliver when it counted.

Another unique aspect of baseball is its elite playoff structure, and I stress elite. Only four teams receive the right to play for the World Series. That’s four out of 26. Compare that to the NCAA basketball tournament or the Stanley Cup Playoffs, both of which severely limit the importance of the regular season. In baseball the regular season is everything. Even in the playoffs and the World Series a team must demonstrate its strength over five or seven games, not the one-shot deal of college basketball. As Jim Valvano will attest, anybody can get lucky one time, but to win time and again is the real test.

Aside from all this, however, baseball makes interesting reading. The game today smacks of The National Enquirer: Will Bowie Kuhn (everybody’s favorite lame duck commissioner) agree to manage the Yankees when Yogi is fired in mid-August, naming Billy Martin his third base coach? Can anyone find some dirt on Dale Murphy? Does Tommy Lasorda know more people than Howard Cosell? When will the Cubs be mathematically eliminated — before or after Pascual Perez starts complaining to the warden about the post-game meals? And who is the least knowledgeable (baseball wise) owner, George Steinbrenner or Ted Turner? And why is the San Diego Chicken more popular than Chief Noc-A-Homa?

There are two telltale signs which foreshadow the dog days of summer. You have memorized the statistics of every player in the major leagues by reading the box scores in the morning paper like a religion. And you have heard and read some outlandish quotes about this season. Some of these:

“How can you enjoy a cocktail after watching Steve Sax make 29 bad throws?” — Dodger manager Tommy Lasorda

“If I go to the bench as a pinch-hitter, this team must be a pennant contender.” — Cubs first baseman Bill Buckner

“I don’t think there’s an outstanding club in our division. That has to help us.” — Mets G. M. Frank Cashen

“The Phillies are good but not as good as the Braves.” — Braves pitcher Len Barker, who lost a 5-0 decision on opening day to, you guessed it, the Phillies

“The only thing that’s certain is that they'll play the national anthem before every game.” — Dodger outfielder Rick Monday

But for the definitive statements on the game, we turn to Yogi, Steve, and Cal:

“In baseball, you don’t know nothing.” — Yankee manager Yogi Berra

“It’s a very simple game — a ball, a bat and a glove. Then humans get involved and make it complicated.” — Phillies pitcher Steve Carlton

“It’s a very simple game — a ball, a bat and a glove. Then humans get involved and make it complicated.” — Orioles coach Cal Ripken, Sr.

Ruggers Lose To Belmont; Survive Charlotte
By HUNTER GOURLEY

The Davidson College Rugby Football Club opened its spring season two weekends ago with its own brand of double-header — Belmont Abbey on Saturday and Charlotte’s Old Originals on Sunday. Davidson was intent on avenging an earlier pre-break tune-up match loss to the ruggers of Belmont Abbey. While the sun shone brightly, the wind blew favorably, and a fairly substantial crowd cheered the home team on, Abbey still managed a 21-0 advantage at the half. The team realized during the brief intermission that it had two options: concede the match and win the party; or regroup then andThere, and win the second half, possibly even the match. Two key factors provided hope for a Davidson second-half rally. First, there were no half-time refreshments for either side: water had been forgotten or misplaced, and all available ice was cooling down those distant kegs. Secondly, 40-minute halves were being played, and while this lengthy time was hurting Davidson badly, it was positively killing the heavier, unfit ragger-monks from the Abbey. With any luck, the one-two combination of thirst (dehydration) and duration would affect the other team more than it would Davidson.

The boys in black and red played an inspired second half. Sophomore forward Griff Elder fielded a high kick for a try, and sophomore Wallace Goodman booted the points after, the first of three successful conversions for him that day. Senior backfieldsman Jerry Grubba ran well before passing to sophomore center-back Chris Clett for four more points, and freshman scrummer John Stanley was well-positioned for Davidson’s final successful scoring drive. Time ran out before a hand-in-scrum penalty could be corrected and converted into the game-winning try. But Abbey was scoreless in that half for a final tally of 21-18, and a near victory for Davidson.

A few fresh, unbruised players were found for the match against Charlotte on Sunday. The Doug Ammar-Ted Wright connection filled in nicely for their less able, more ailing teammates: they scored three tries (four-pointers) between them. Charlotte scored first early in the half on a 45-yard burst up the middle before Davidson had warmed up properly and worked out all the kinks from Saturday’s match. Scoring came more easily for Davidson after Charlotte’s scare. Elder scored a second time for the weekend off a well-placed ball by Wright, and junior Jim Brueggemann hit on two of four conversion attempts, leaving Davidson with a 20-point total for the match. As a team, Davidson played sound rugby, looking better than they had all fall. Good running by freshman Carroll Overton and the effective hooking of sophomore Tommy Cardwell enabled Davidson to defeat Charlotte 20-9. Experienced play and superior knowledge of the game from new arrivals Zack Dovey and Tom Giles proved valuable additions to the club in both matches.

Lacrosse Loses Two Over Weekend
By CHRIS HOLDEN

After an impressive season-opening victory against rival powerhouse N.C. State, the Davidson lacrosse team dropped a disappointing pair of home contests last weekend. Clemson, a well-seasoned team with plenty of talent, left town Saturday with a 13-10 victory under their belts. The Cats took the field Sunday with vengeance on their minds, only to play a roller-coaster game that Savannah won, also 13-10. Savannah, a skilled team, won primarily through experience; the Cats out-hustled Savannah but fell prey to superior sticks.

Team Captain Jay Norman felt that Davidson should have won both games. “We were a little down as a team on Saturday; we never really got any momentum going,” he said. “Face-offs hurt us a great deal, and we plan to put some work in this week along those lines. Even though we played poorly, we still had an opportunity to win those games. That’s encouraging in itself.”

In a Saturday night brain-trust, team leaders met to devise a strategy that might spark the team in a fresh direction on Sunday. Davidson has traditionally been a defense-oriented team, partially out of necessity—there is an absence of any one great talent on the squad who can force things to happen offensively. It was decided on Saturday night that Norman, who has played courageously in goal for seven years, would trade his butterfly net for a real stick and move to attack. The idea was to spark the offense with some fresh talent.

Norman did well, scoring three goals and several assists. His replacement in goal, freshman Michael Holt, had a marvelous game and proved that his capability will be tapped in the next three years. The strategy worked to a certain degree. Junior Thomas Evans tallied several goals on the weekend and remains a standout. Saturday he actually shot a ball with such force that it went right through the goalie’s stick and carried into the goal. Asked where he found such superhuman power, Evans replied, “It’s my Sampsonesque beard. I may never shave it off.”

Particularly devastating this year is the loss of junior defensive specialist Ted Garner, but the defensive unit has managed to hold its own. Juniors Brooks Babcock and John McColl are maturing into fine players and proving to be a valuable asset. This weekend the Cats make a two-game swing south to take on Auburn and Georgia. Determination is high, and the stickmen hope to return with a winning record (they are currently 1-2).