Friday, October 19, 1984 / The Davidsonian

From The Concession Stand

Padres Pitching Wins World Series For Tigers

By STEVE BYERS

With all due respect to Kirk Gibson and Jack Morris, the Detroit Tigers won the 1984 World Series because of
this number — 13.94. That was the ERA of the San Diego Padres’ four starting pitchers in the five-game series.
You are not going to win many games when your starters can’t survive the first inning. In the last game,
mental mistakes by San Diego’s Alan Wiggins and Garry Templeton certainly didn’t help their cause. Not to mention that “Goose”
Gossage might as well have been throwing batting practice for all the effect he had. But it was only fair
that Detroit win it all, for the Tigers were the best team from Day One. After Sunday, is there any
doubt that the best baseball is played in the AL East?

And speaking of football, guess who has the best overall record in the ACC. Why, Virginia, of course — that
powerhouse of college football. Guess who is tied for the worst overall record. That’s right. How ‘bout them Heels? This
Saturday night at 7:30 Leonard Nimoy goes “In Search Of...” the North Carolina defense.

Well, Oklahoma played Texas Saturday in a rain-soaked battle for the No. 1 ranking. So what happened? The referees did
everything but kick Texas’ field goal, as they helped the Longhorns squeak out a 15-15 tie. And the Washington Huskies
said thank you very much, as they leapfrogged both teams to the top spot.

In pro football, add Gale Sayers to the roll of the “I Think Franco Harris Is A Sissie” Club. Founder
and club president Jim Brown is glad to have him. Welcome to the NFL, Warren Moon, whose Houston Oilers are
0-7 and are actually worse than their record indicates, if that’s possible. The Redskins look as if they are getting
their act together, but the last time Miami began its season 7-0, we all remember what happened to Washington in
January.

When are the media and the public going to stop giving stock car racing the attention it does not deserve?
Some people claim that driving a car at speeds of 150 mph around an oval for three hours every Sunday
requires great athletic skill. (These are the same people who think “The Dukes of Hazzard” is the best show on
TV). I say it requires half a brain, four good tires, a great pit crew, a pronounced Southern accent, a
chewing tobacco sponsor, and a lot of luck.

Basketball practice officially started Monday. Which means all true sports addicts can write off studying on Monday and Wednesday nights
and Saturday and Sunday afternoons of winter term. Go ahead and plan on it — your GPA will nosedive next
term if you like basketball. And if you don’t enjoy basketball? Well, you're a bookworm, and you belong in the
library with the other culturally deprived students.

Things I would like to see (but will never happen) this upcoming basketball season... Dean Smith losing his temper... Dean
Smith actually criticizing an opponent... Carolina not winning 20 games... Jim Valvano saying his freshmen recruits are illiterate and are
in school only to play basketball... Kansas Coach Larry Brown admitting he hired Ed Manning to lure son Danny... DePaul
running a disciplined offense... somebody stuffing a sock in Al McGuire's mouth.

Until next week, sports fans, let me leave you with this quote from the Dec. 1, 1969 issue of Sports
Illustrated by Davidson sports information director Emil Parker: “If [Eric] Minkin can force either [Mike] Maloy or [Doug] Cook to
a wing position, we [Davidson] will win the national championship — easy.” Ouch, that hurts.

Tennis Team To Play N.C.’s Best At Tournament

By STEVE BYERS

The men’s tennis team travels to Durham this weekend for a tournament featuring the top college programs in North Carolina.
The Wildcats have been playing round-robin matches against each other this past week to prepare for the tournament. Coach Jeff
Frank said, “We are a young team, but good. We just don’t know how good yet, and this weekend should
help us find out. We've been trying to get our guys ‘match tough’ this fall, because that’s our biggest weakness
over the summer compared to teams like UT-C and Furman.”

Sedge Gray is back at No. 1 singles this fall and probably will still be there when the season officially
begins in early March. “I think Sedge is at the point where he can play with anybody in the Southern...Conference,
on any surface, on any day,” Frank said. Sophomore Hayes Dallas will occupy the second singles position. Dallas returns after
an impressive freshman season. What really has Frank excited, though, is the play of his freshmen so far. In fact,
for this weekend's tournament, three freshmen will form the heart of Davidson's top eight. Rick Hodge, Jim Thompson, and Bill
Young will play three, four, and five singles, respectively. “These guys are aggressive, bright, and enthusiastic, which rubs off on
the rest of the team. They're just playing super tennis so far, but I want to see how they do
this weekend against top players in a tournament situation,” Frank said.

The last three singles positions will be junior Bobby Nichols at six, senior John Hackett at seven, and sophomore “Monk”
Meyer at eight. Meyer barely edged out sophomore Tripp Caldwell for the last slot. The team hosts a tournament during
Parents’ Weekend and travels to Statesville and ultimately Amelia Island, Florida (over Spring Break) for more tournaments before the season
begins.

There is both good news and bad news for the Wildcats next spring. The good news is that the new
indoor tennis facility (with four hard courts) should be ready by Feb. 1. The bad news is that once again
Davidson faces an uphill battle in the Southern Conference. UT-C is loaded and has to be the preseason favorite, while
Furman returns all its players from last year’s strong squad.

Rugby Excites And Bruises
By ANDY BARRON

The Davidson Rugby Club is alive and well. With over 30 members participating at various levels of dedication, the club
is able to put both an “A” and a “B” team on the field. The “A” team currently sports a
1-1-1 record, while the “B” team is 1-2. “We've improved a lot over last year,” junior Griff Elder said. “We've
got a lot of freshmen out and I think that's helping us.”

Davidson has helped its own record by scheduling Belmont Abbey twice. The Cats won the first game 15-7 and tied
the second 8-8. The one loss of the season was at the hands of UNC-Greensboro in a score that no
one would reveal if they knew what it was.

Many people who know rugby only by shirts that say “Give Blood. Play Rugby!” or bumper stickers that say “Support
Your Local Hooker” might want to know why anyone would want to play the game. Some reasons: Sophomore John Reynolds
said, “A lot of former high school football and soccer players play rugby to try a new sport. There's also
all the beer we drink.” Junior Paul Weiss said, “You only train three days a week and then you get
to bust heads and drink a lot of beer. What more do ya’ want?” Freshman Russell Booker added, “Everyone has
a great sense of humor. There's a certain aura about rugby players. The training rules are also lenient.”

Rugby can be a very exciting, slick, and smoothly executed sport, but that's rare. Most of the time the sport
is easily as violent as its reputation claims. What would you expect to happen if you let 30 madmen on
the same field at once with each one attempting to dish out more than he takes? “When you have a
good referee, rugby isn’t that dangerous,” sophomore Perry Mathewes said. “However, if you have someone who doesn’t know what he’s
doing, you run into big trouble. That’s what happened in our last game.”

That reference is to Davidson's second game with Belmont Abbey. A member of the opposition constantly violated the rule against
high tackling, a dangerous part of rugby. Before the game was over, freshman Edward Patte had a broken nose and
senior Joe McMullen had been thrown out after “complaining” to the referee about a few suspect calls. Things turned out
okay, though, because the “cheap shot artist” in question didn't show up at the post-game party. “Though there is always
a lot of tension in the game, everyone is really sporting and calms down for the party,” freshman Glenn Fogle
said. “Partying with the other team is just part of the game. Everyone's too tired to fight anyway.”

The rugby team travels to Myrtle Beach this weekend for a match and anything else they can find. They will
host Guilford during Parents’ Weekend and against Duke the following weekend. Come out and see what rugby's all about.
