Friday, February 3, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Niki Scott Addresses Changing Women’s Roles
By ALLISON WILLS

“Men are bewildered because all of the rules that they followed for so many years have all been changed,” Niki Scott said to a Love Auditorium audience of 100 Monday night. Scott, a syndicated columnist for more than 150 newspapers, spoke as part of Celebrate Women Week. Her speech, entitled “You Can Be a Superwoman, But Do You Want to Be,” considered the realistic aspects of women’s changing roles.

“I wonder if some expectations are illusions,” she warned women. “I believe that what we really believe is that we'll work if we don’t get married or until we have a baby. It doesn’t matter what you want to do... you will work. It is no longer true that you will have an option.”

Scott stressed in her talk that working for women is no longer a choice but a necessity because of the economy. “You won't have the choice anymore of staying home and raising children,” she said. “This will not affect children adversely. All the statistics show... that it really doesn’t matter. Quality time versus quantity is not just a cliché. It is true.”

“We will have to take ourselves seriously,” she urged. “We still wait for a big strong man to take care of us. We just can’t wait for that.”

Women, Scott believes, have had good experience in being sensitive and soft-spoken, and she thinks that this is an asset in the business world. “Sometimes we sound abrasive... but we’re new at this. The gentleness and caring that you're afraid won’t work out there works,” she said. “And I hope you don’t put those [assets] aside.”

Scott is encouraged by the tremendous strides women have made just over the last five years. “I see caring and bonding among women. That’s new,” she said. “What we learned along the way is that... by taking one another seriously, we began to be friends.”

Scott achieved recognition with her column, Working Women, which reaches more than 23 million people weekly. She began the column while working for The Charlotte News, and in 1976 she joined the United Press International. Scott said she began the column because she felt the media is not addressing the concerns of most American women. “Articles on preparing elegant meals... or how to deal with earning more than your husband, have nothing to do with the way most of us live,” she said. “These so-called ‘glossy’ magazines give false messages.”

As a single working woman with two children, she understands the concerns of the average woman, and her column is designed to make women realize that they are not alone. “I have felt so lonely, and it’s so nice to know I’m not the only one who’s not all together,” she said.

In addition to her column, Scott has written several books including The Working Woman: A Handbook for Working Mothers and The Balancing Act: A Handbook for Working Mothers. She also serves as a contributing editor for McCall's Working Mother Magazine.

Panel Discusses Attitudes Toward Women
By FRANCES PALMER

Attitudes toward women at Davidson have changed and continue to change, according to a six-member panel discussion sponsored by the Women’s Concerns Committee as part of Celebrate Women Week. Mary Jo Clark '79, senior Anne Elliott, senior Bob Bruce, political science professor Tom Kazee, Associate Dean of Students Sue Ross, and junior Keith Revell comprised the panel. Around 50 students, faculty, and administration met at 4 p.m. in the Morrison Room Tuesday to listen to and question the panel.

Clark is a graduate student focusing on ministry with women. Although she feels her studies of the church and women’s liberation have made an impression on her, perhaps the biggest change in her perspective came with her marriage to Union Director William Brown. Clark commented that even though she kept her maiden name after her marriage, “it is hard not to go into a disappearing act.” She feels she has always followed feminist philosophy, but her marriage has helped to break down ingrained ideas she did not realize existed.

Elliott discussed her feelings about the similarities and differences between modern black women and modern white women. She commented that black women “never had to learn to be strong” since they have gained “strength from suffering.” In the working world, however, black women have problems similar to those of white women. She feels that “the main thing that messes us [women] up is us.” Elliott emphasized that every modern woman needs a strong faith in God because “materialism doesn’t make up for what you need inside.”

Bruce was quick...to point out that “everyone has their own view” of what a modern woman should be. He feels that growing up with three sisters and no brothers helped him to appreciate women. He commented that his good relationship with his sisters gave him the basis for strong friendships with females in high school as well as at Davidson. He stressed the idea of “modern people” and encouraged the women in the audience to have confidence in themselves.

Kazee discussed his experiences in balancing a career and a family. “I don't want to suggest it’s easy. I don’t want to suggest that it will work only if you both want it to — that’s part of it,” he said. Kazee’s wife gives music lessons in the evening to about 55 students, and Kazee commented that their conflicting schedules do not always leave time to reflect in the evening. He stressed, however, that a proper attitude is crucial. He feels that the hardest thing for modern men is “fully accepting the fact that my wife's career is just as important as mine is.” He added that too many men “are willing to pay lip-service to the wife’s career as long as it doesn’t interfere with ours.” Kazee cautioned men not to approach their wives from the perspective of “I'll let you have a career,” because “a woman has a right to a career.”

Ross commented that when she was growing up, her grandmother was the head of the family, and she was taught that “being a woman was not a detriment.” She said she had always felt free to be herself and was shocked when she “found out” that women felt suppressed. She was, however, disappointed that, because “my brain is in a female body,” she could not attend UNC for her undergraduate degree. She also commented that she thought Davidson men would not agree with the past attitude that women “were taught not ever to win at athletics.”

Faculty To Retreat For Weekend
By DAVID VAN PELT

Members of the Davidson College faculty and staff will head for the woods this weekend. Campus Chaplain Charlie Summers organized the retreat, which will take place in the Presbyterian Conference Center in Montreat, N.C., near Asheville. Twenty-five faculty and staff members will attend, as well as several Trustees. According to Summers, the focus of the retreat will be to re-evaluate Davidson’s status as a church-related institution. “It will all relate to how we handle the concerns and issues of a church college,” he said.

The retreat will be led by Harry Smith, former University of North Carolina campus minister and professor of religion at Yale, now president of Austin College in Texas. Smith has led many retreats of this kind, according to Summers. “He was one of the names suggested as a good person to work with Davidson faculty on a retreat,” he said. Those familiar with Smith applaud his appointment to lead the retreat. English professor Richard Cole said, “In part I'm going because of Harry Smith. He has an excellent reputation in leading retreats of this type. I think he will be interesting and provocative.”

Retreat activities will commence on Friday evening with a discussion of popular conceptions and assumptions about church-related colleges. Saturday, Smith will give lectures on distinctive qualities of church colleges, and the implications of church-relatedness. Discussions will center around these lectures. Sunday, Smith will address methods of reflecting and strengthening the church-college relationship, and then hold a summary discussion and adjournment before noon.

The Staley Foundation, an endowment for Christian activities on campus, is sponsoring the retreat. There will be no expense for those participating. This weekend's excursion will be the first faculty retreat in over 20 years. The only retreat of any type in recent years was one on campus in the mid-'70s, during a Trustees meeting, which also dealt with Davidson's status as a church-related college. “I think through the years faculty interest in this kind of thing has declined,” said Professor Cole. Cole cited the decrease in church activity by faculty members as a reason for this.

The idea for this retreat, according to Dean of Students Will Terry, came out of a meeting he had with Charlie Summers this summer. This year the Presbyterian Church is emphasizing its responsibility in higher education, Terry said, “and we thought that this was one of the ways we could observe it.” Terry acknowledged the less explicit role of the Church at Davidson today than in the past, noting the cessation of mandatory vespers attendance in 1966 and chapel service in 1968. “There are some people who think that we have lost our identification as a church-related college,” he said. “And we would say it’s not as obvious as it was.”