8 Friday, April 20, 1984/The Davidsonian

By STEVE BYERS

The Masters: Ben Crenshaw, bright pants, and cheap sunglasses.

Augusta, Georgia, for the uninitiated, is a long three-hour drive from Davidson, and at 5 a.m. on a Sunday morning,
it just gets longer. After that scenic drive (I counted at least two pretty trees), I arrived just in time
for the completion of the rain-delayed third round. This being my first golf tournament, I walked through the gates absolutely
clueless as to where to go. And you've got to realize that it isn’t like a baseball game, where an
usher takes you to your seat. A major golf tournament, especially the last day of The Masters, is a free-for-all.
Every man, woman, and child for him- or herself. But you learn quickly. Just stand still and wait for a
big roar or watch for a mass of people knocking each other down and walking very fast — rules state
that you walk, don’t run — to get a glimpse of a Tom Watson or even a Mark Lye. It’s
pretty simple, actually. Follow the crowd which is following the leaders. In the morning I finally hooked up with Crenshaw
and Watson on the 16th and followed them.

—From The Concession Stand—

The Spectacle Of The Masters Tournament

I was spoiled in the morning, though. There weren’t too many people there early, so I was able to move
freely and get real close to the “action.” (Someone once described a golf tournament as five minutes of action packed
into four hours.) The afternoon was a different story. Though there was no way for me to judge exactly how
many people were there, suffice it to say that a lot of people did not get to see much golf.
That obviously didn’t matter, though, to many of those there. You know, those who were there to be seen. And
you couldn’t help but see them. A typical spectator wore white golf shoes (as if he were going to play),
bright yellow slacks, a green Polo shirt, cheap sunglasses, and an official Masters cap which he bought for the bargain
basement price of $13. That’s right, you name it and they were selling it. But for those, like myself, that
were interested in seeing some golf, it was an exercise in futility. Remember Crenshaw’s dramatic 60-foot birdie on number 10?
I left there right before he putted. Did you see Crenshaw’s putt on number 18 when he secured the green
jacket? I didn’t.

Two things struck me most about my experience. One was the overwhelming beauty of the Augusta National course. You get
a feel for it on TV, but you don’t really appreciate just how gorgeous it is until you see it
up close. And this is a classy tournament. Spectators are expected to behave in a certain way and follow some
unwritten rules, and for the most part they do. Much of the crowd is middle-aged or older and therefore quite
knowledgeable about the intricacies of the game. The only advantage of TV is that you don’t miss many shots. On
Sunday I had to pick and choose certain holes and depend on the leader boards for the rest.

Which brings me to my second impression. Seeing the golfers right in front of you making these incredible shots makes
you appreciate how good these guys are. It was amazing watching them tee off — relatively small men driving a
ball 250 or 300 yards with accuracy. The accuracy is the key part here. All of the hack and weekend
golfers in attendance at The Masters made me laugh, double-guessing the pros on their choice of clubs and yelling out
suggestions on how to approach a certain putt. These are the same guys who, if they break 80, brag about
it for weeks.

Finally, The Masters is more than a golf tournament. It’s a spectacle. You're rubbing elbows with people like Ted Turner
and Rock ’n Rollen (the guy with the rainbow hair who is everywhere). The tournament directors ride around in golf
carts, clad in their bright green jackets, and maintain the course in immaculate condition, all the while keeping the tournament
on a tight schedule. Then there is the ceremonial awarding of the green jacket; this year Seve Ballesteros put it
on.Crenshaw. Everything is very formal and ritualistic, in keeping with the tradition of the South. Every golfer has a favorite
recollection of The Masters — the awesome beauty of Amen Corner, Gene Sarazen’s famous double eagle on the 15th, Jack
Nicklaus’s five titles, and so on — but mine will be Crenshaw striding toward the 18th green (yes, I had
to jump for this shot), and the look on his face which expressed both relief and thinly-disguised euphoria.

On The Finer Points Of Rugby: Part II
By HUNTER GOURLEY

If, like me, you ripped The Davidsonian of two weeks ago into bits and pieces in an attempt to get
at that damned Hardee's coupon, then don’t feel too bad about missing that introductory explanation of rugby. We will simply
pick up where we left off.

Each half begins with a place kick just like football. In rugby matches, the ball must travel 10 yards upfield
before the team that kicked it can attempt to regain possession. Often the ball is booted to the other team’s
forwards in hopes they will botch the reception and fail to get the ball out to their backs and into
the open field where the defensive matchups are man-to-man. With clever passing and some fancy footwork, the backs may find
a gap and score a try. The try, or touchdown, nets four points if the ball is touched to the
ground in the end zone. Alas, spikes don’t count for any points. If the two-point conversion attempt is also completed,
the six points are called a goal. A team can also score by a drop-kick through the posts for three
points. Major penalties may result in a penalty kick which, if successful, is also worth three points. The team scored
upon restarts play with a place kick. Other kicking or punting depends on strategic considerations. Kicking serves as an offensive
weapon in combination with passing, and also as a defensive weapon if need be.

For the most part, rugby is a constantly moving, smoothly-flowing game much like its round-ball relative, soccer. When properly played,
even the major collisions do not hinder the forward progress of the ball, although the passer may find himself on
his backside. Thank goodness for the occasional minor violations. In those cases, the referee stops play while a scrummage is
organized. Offsides penalties are very important violations to avoid. Not until the scrum half removes the ball from the scrum
can players cross the imaginary line dividing the two teams locked in mortal combat. When a player enters a confused
mass of opposition players, called a loose scrum or ruck, from the wrong side he is — you guessed it
— offsides. Finally, ruggers must be put onsides by the individual who punted the ball, or by a quick player
already “on,” before he can legally make minced meat of the opposition’s receiver.

Sometimes the ball, or better yet, the play and the ball, winds up knocked out of bounds. And another blessed
opportunity for a breather has presented itself. Anyway, the ball is put back into play by means of a lineout.
The other team tosses the bouncing ball down the space formed by the lines of each team’s forwards. It must
be thrown in reasonably straight, but with any luck your best jumpers can anticipate the pass and rebound the ball.
And it usually does.

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due.
This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours only at participating Hardee’s
Restaurants through May 31, 1984. © 1983. Hardee’s Food Systems, Inc.

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’™ bring on this money-saving coupon.

STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND ORANGE JUICE $1.29

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due.
This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants
through May 31, 1984. © 1983. Hardee’s Food Systems, Inc.
