S THE DAVIDSONIAN  
Volume LXXIV, Number 2  
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036  
Friday, September 21, 1984  

Committee To Mediate Self-Selection Disputes  
By DAVID VAN PELT  

Dean of Students Will Terry’s appointed Self-Selection Committee begins its second year this fall with the same commitment to act as a “mediating group” between freshmen and fraternities, according to chairman Charles Jenkins. “This year I see our role as more of an educational committee,” Jenkins said. He said most of the complaints about fraternity actions result from a lack of knowledge about self-selection requirements. “That’s when problems come about, when people don’t know what’s going on,” he said. Terry formed the committee last year to educate freshmen about self-selection and handle disputes between freshmen and fraternities. “Last year I was very pleased with the way the Self-Selection Committee worked to keep fraternities sensitive to freshmen’s rights.” Terry does not generally attend committee meetings and does not handle disputes unless asked, he said. “They may appeal to me, but they don’t work through me,” he said.  

The committee last year issued two sanctions. One of these was a written reprimand to Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. SAE President Duncan McColl described the incident as a misunderstanding. “It was something that got twisted all the way around,” he said. “An individual said something that was taken the wrong way.” McColl said SAE was basically content with the way the committee operated last year. “We had to make major adjustments in the way we did encouragements,” he said. “But we can adjust within the system with no problems.”  

Kappa Alpha Order received the second sanction and at one point was forbidden to invite freshmen to the house for 10 days. This followed a complaint brought against the house by a “rival fraternity,” according to KA officer Hartley Hall. According to Hall, the committee made several “procedural errors that hopefully will be worked out this year.” Of the fraternity’s punishment, Hall said, “We weren't informed in any systematic manner. We just kind of heard it through the grapevine.” Nevertheless, Hall credits the committee for doing “a very fine job overall.” Jenkins acknowledged the need for a more systematic approach to communication and enforcement of rules.

President And Yon Discuss Project ’87  
By ANDREA DIEDRICH  

Project '87 makes a “strong, positive suggestion” toward solving the problems of racial integration, sophomore Andrew Yon said Wednesday at an Open Luncheon. Yon, president of R.A.C.E. (Racial Attitudes Concerning Everyone), spoke with College President John Kuykendall on the issue of racial awareness in the Davidson College community. The forum centered on the goals of R.A.C.E., the issues and ideals behind Project ’87, and the newly appointed task force on minority concerns.  

Yon described the goals of R.A.C.E.: to bring more blacks to campus and to integrate campus blacks into campus life. Yon recognized that effective integration is the most difficult of the two goals, yet he felt it can be achieved with the attention of the trustees and the administration. Project '87, promoted by the Black Student Coalition, calls for more black students, black professors, and black studies at Davidson. Kuykendall said Project ’87 “... is a responsible and temperate statement on a matter of genuine concern.” He said it effectively identifies areas in which there is a need for progress in racial relations at Davidson.  

Kuykendall formed the committee on minority concerns as a response to Project ’87. The task force, he said, will spend the next two months studying the racial situation at Davidson and will release a report on November 30 that will relate the findings of their study. (continued on page 7)systematic way to handle disputes. “I think last year they didn’t have that quite nailed down,” he said. In its first year, he said, the committee “defined its role and found out how it was supposed to function.” Last year’s chairman John Hackett, a committee member again this year, (continued on page 7)

Presidential Advisory Papers To Convey Student Opinion
By DAVID VAN PELT

“I don’t ‘expect’ him to act on them,” SGA President John Laughlin said of the Presidential Advisory Papers presented last Wednesday morning to President John Kuykendall. “They're meant as a point of reference for him to use in gathering student opinion.” The SGA Presidential Advisory Committee, headed by senior Elizabeth Brooks, compiled the papers last spring to acquaint the new President with important campus issues. Because Brooks has an internship this term in Asheville, N.C., Laughlin supervised the completion of the papers this fall. Laughlin said he is scheduled to meet Monday with Kuykendall to discuss the papers. (continued on page 7)

By THURSTON HATCHER

“I’m afraid Dr. Kuykendall only has two nights free this month,” says Loyce Davis, the president’s secretary, to a prospective dinner host on the telephone. So it goes for new College President John Kuykendall. In two and a half months he has sprinted from orientation sessions to committee meetings, social events, and other administrative duties. Now that fall term has begun, the pace has hardly slowed. Kuykendall knew, however, that leaving his position in the Religion department at Auburn to take on Davidson’s top post would bring about some major changes in his and his family’s lives. Kuykendall officially became Davidson’s president on July 1, and the first item on his personal agenda was to move his family into the house at 408 North Main Street. Accustomed to an academician’s transient lifestyle, the Kuykendalls felt prepared for the difficulties the move might entail. “Actually, this is the easiest move our family has had,” says Kuykendall. “There was no U-Haul. Instead, the moving van came right to our door, so it was a breeze this time.” Not surprisingly, the Davidson community did its part to help the Kuykendalls with the moving-in process. “The people in Davidson were very concerned. We appreciated their opening their lives and hearts to us,” Kuykendall said. Kuykendall recognized the difficulty of such a change for his wife Missy and sons Tim, 18, and Jamie, 15. “We anticipated some trauma for Tim and Jamie, but the Davidson young people have been very sensitive.” Tim and Jamie both attend North Mecklenburg High School. Missy Kuykendall had her own job in Auburn, but now she has a full-time task ahead of her in dealing with the various responsibilities that accompany her position as Davidson's first lady. While his wife and sons adjusted to life in another college town, Kuykendall spent the first month much like a freshman, re-orienting himself to a Davidson quite different from the one where he once studied. “It is, of course, different in terms of buildings and people, and the emergence of that change bespeaks the fact that I’m not coming back to the place I left.” He tries to approach his job in such a way that he can balance his various duties, particularly meeting with alumni and getting in touch with the Davidson community, while still leaving some time to spend with his family and for leisure. “Right now I have to discipline myself and use time more self-consciously than I have in the past. I'm trying to spend a good deal of time with alumni early without slighting my (continued on page 7)