6. Friday, January 27, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Workshop II: Daffy Comedy And Tour De Force

By ROSS HOLT

This week’s workshop plays, *My Cup Ranneth Over* directed by Roxanna Guilford, and *Architruc*, directed by John Toler, are quite
different from one another, but both are absorbing and at times quite powerful.

John Patrick’s *My Cup Ranneth Over* offers what at first appears to be a slight, a bit daffy comedy about
a frustrated writer with a drawer of rejection slips and her folk-singer roommate. But once Yucca, the singer (played by
Denise Gyauch), has her act reviewed in *The New York Times* and “makes the jump” from struggling artist to star,
the play becomes a serio-comic exploration of the distance achievement puts between people. As the phone starts ringing off the
hook (always for Yucca), and crowds begin to gather outside their building, a gap opens between Yucca and her roommate
Paula (played by Stephanie Bruck) — who's still struggling. Paula at first abets Yucca in her somewhat freakish stardom, but
eventually comes to accuse Yucca of having “changed.” Yucca, however, counters that Paula is jealous of her newfound fame. As
the dimensions of Yucca’s stardom increase, so does the defensive interplay between the two women.

Both Bruck and Gyauch accomplish the task of making their characters’ feelings human though not sentimental. Director Guilford’s pace keeps
the comedy moving without trivializing the serious aspects of the play. Gyauch does a good job with Yucca, preserving the
character’s flightiness while at the same time bringing her down to earth when the situation demands it. And Bruck’s comic
timing on her off-the-wall ripostes is impeccable. The production is quite entertaining, and the ending leaves the viewer satisfied without
providing easy, happy answers to the problems in the roommates’ relationship.

The second play of the evening, Robert Pinget’s *Architruc*, is simply a tour de force. Tense, almost scary music sets
the tone at the beginning and the tension only increases throughout the play. King Architruc (played by Chris Gunn) is
a weak, aging monarch who is overseen by his courtier, Baga (Andrew Wilson). While Architruc pads meekly around his bedchamber,
Baga prances with authority, carrying on the affairs of state that Architruc cannot handle, and playing characters for the edification
of the king. But their relationship is a two-edged sword: Architruc relies completely upon Baga, but Baga himself exists only
through his de facto control of the kingdom. But during the entire interaction between Architruc and Baga, Death lurks, in
the fury-like form of Beth Geiger, behind Architruc’s favorite tree.

Despite the play being done in the round (the audience surrounding the stage), director Toler’s set defines the space of
the King’s bedroom quite well. Each possible exit is at least partially blocked, and Architruc never leaves the set. Chris
Gunn's Architruc is superb — physically aged but a child emotionally. Gunn manages to affect the King’s debilitation while maintaining
a performer’s energy, without resorting to a clichéd, old man stereotype. Though Gunn physically towers over Andrew Wilson’s Baga, Wilson
easily exerts a command that gives his character the power to control.

*Architruc* is a tense, powerful, and many-layered play given an intense, engrossing production. Still, despite its power, it does not
overwhelm or erase the effect of the first production.The plays work well on the same bill, making for a quite
enjoyable evening at the theatre. Workshop III, Aria da Capo and Overtones will open on Thursday, February 9.

Never Cry Wolf: More Than An Animal Movie
By MATT MORRIS

Never Cry Wolf (1983)
Directed by Carroll Ballard, Starring Charles Martin Smith, Rated PG.
Viewer’s Guide: ***1/5

Several years ago I remember people asking me if I had seen Francis Ford Coppola’s The Black Stallion. My first
reaction was no, and neither did I care to see any more films about horses, cats, little girls, toads, or
turtles. Yet my friends insisted that this was more than an “animal movie.” Skeptically I went to see the film.
My friends were right. With The Black Stallion, a new kind of horse opera appeared to be in the making,
a sort of poem in rhythm, light, and maybe a touch of nostalgia. I loved the movie, but I couldn’t
figure out exactly why. I also noticed after seeing the film that Coppola only produced — the poet/director behind Black
Stallion was someone I’d never heard of — Carroll Ballard.

Now Ballard has returned with a new film of awesome beauty and wonder, Never Cry Wolf. In it, a government
environmentalist (Tyler, played by Charles Smith) is sent to the Arctic to discover exactly who or what is killing all
the caribou that inhabit those icy regions. The government suspects the canis lupus (Arctic Beige Wolf), but the humble Tyler,
upon reaching the Arctic mountains, sides with the wolves.

After seeing Never Cry Wolf I now understand what made The Black Stallion so special. Despite their titles, neither film
is about animals. Instead, both movies are interested and succeed in creating a sense of inexplicable wonder. Tyler is a
dot against the stunning arctic surroundings; this overpowering insignificance makes him — and the viewer — feel like more than
just neighbors to all the wolves, caribou, and other animal life on this planet. We are animals. In a wonderful
montage, Ballard shows Tyler eating mice to stay alive while outside his tent the wolves do the same. Later Tyler
meets an ancient native of the arctic region named Utek who tells him that the wolves have a special form
of communication which only a few humans understand. Oddly enough, Tyler can communicate to Utek only through a translator. Yet
none of Ballard’s notes on the similarity between man and beast are meant to depress; instead, Never Cry Wolf celebrates
life.

Ballard takes an even more ambitious step, however, including “evil entrepreneurs” who seem to have a habit of strolling into
other animal films and destroying the ecology with miles of Hardees. Yet even here, Ballard explores — and stimulates —
by suggesting that man, like the wolves, lives off the land in any way he can, whether it be eating
mice or eating a quarter-pounder with cheese. This attitude will probably infuriate some environmentalists, but it is the key that
completes Ballard’s man vs. animal/man is animal drama. A talent to be dealt with, Carroll Ballard’s Wolf is a far
cry from anything you'll ever see in a Ranger Rick Magazine.

KING OF PIZZA
225 S. Broad St. Mooreville

FAMILY NIGHT
Every Monday Night 5 To 10

PIZZA
BUY ONE PIZZA (ANY SIZE)
GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE FREE
