6 Friday, March 30, 1984 / The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Marlette Practices To Harness Artistic Talent

By DAVID RESNIK

Doug Marlette, a nationally syndicated Charlotte Observer political cartoonist and the creator of the comic strip “Kudzu,” entertained a crowd
of over 100 people at last Wednesday's Open Luncheon. Marlette used an overhead projector to display his work and told
stories associated with each cartoon.

He began with his political cartoons. His first victim was President Reagan. Reagan is hard for a cartoonist to draw,
according to Marlette, “because his image doesn’t correspond to his moral content.” Reagan looks nice, but his policies aren't, he
said. Some Presidents are easier to draw, he added, like Nixon, who “looked like his natural moral substance.”

From Reagan, he moved to former Interior Secretary James Watt, religious leader Jim Baker, Democratic presidential candidates Gary Hart, Jesse
Jackson, and George McGovern, U.S. Senator Jesse Helms, and rock musician Boy George. He also presented cartoons about El Salvador,
Lebanon, Grenada, the national debt, the Equal Rights Amendment, Nuclear Arms, and the Pan Am Games, and just about every
other political issue in this country.

After presenting some of his political cartoons, Marlette gave some background on his “Kudzu” comic strip. Marlette based “Kudzu” on
his experiences growing up in a small southern town. For Marlette, growing up was painful and funny: “adolescence was like
one long banana peel.”

One of his constant problems was being years behind his peers in development. The primary character of his strip “Kudzu”
is a boy who lives with his mother. His father has deserted them, so Kudzu spends a great deal of
his time looking for a father figure.

Marlette chose the name “Kudzu” for his strip because it was “kind of catchy.” Kudzu is a leafy vine from
the Orient that grows in the south. It grows very fast — almost a foot a night. Marlette said the
character Kudzu in the strip is like the plant because he grows. Marlette’s new book of “Kudzu” cartoons is called
The Wit and Wisdom of Reverend Dunn. Dunn is the erstwhile preacher to whom Kudzu turns for guidance and advice.

After his presentation, Marlette answered questions.

He said that he does not rely just on inspiration in drawing his cartoons. He has become good at cartooning
by practicing and harnessing his talents. According to Marlette, “Cartooning involves an ability to think symbolically. It’s not logical or
linear; it’s more intuitive. But you can make it happen.”

Marlette said that he has been given a great deal of freedom in his cartooning career, and the people up
in the “enlightened north” are often taken aback by the amount of freedom he has working on a southern paper.

Marlette confessed that he loves the comic strip Doonesbury. He likes author Gary Trudeau's style and use of dialogue. Doonesbury
has had more of an influence on his political cartoons than on “Kudzu,” he said. Marlette said he was influenced
by Al Capp’s “Lil Abner” and Charles Schultz's “Peanuts” while growing up.

People have written a number of letters to the editor in the Charlotte Observer complaining about the content of Marlette’s
cartoons. Marlette said anyone who displays himself as does an editorial cartoonist must expect that some people won't like what
he is doing. He does not “mind if they understand [the cartoon] and disagree” but he does get upset if
“they don’t even understand.”

Marlette doesn’t endorse any particular political ideology; his ideas and values come from his personal experience. He doesn’t view cartooning
as a political instrument: “I just do what I do.”

Marlette began his cartooning career by doodling in class. He drew pictures of Donald Duck and Mickey Mouse for his
first-grade class in exchange for food and marbles. At the very beginning of his career, he saw how lucrative the
business could be.

He drew cartoons for his high school and college newspapers and worked for the Orlando Sentinel part-time in high school.
He graduated from Florida State University in 1971 with a major in philosophy and a minor in art. He won
a Nieman Fellowship for Journalists and attended Harvard from 1980—1981. While at Harvard he took a few courses and met
many important people.

Marlette was born in Greensboro, N.C. He spent some of his childhood in Laurel, Mississippi, and went to high school
in Sanford, Florida. He is 34 years old and is married to Melinda Hartley, a film producer. He lives in
Charlotte and plays five-string banjo and volleyball in his spare time.

“NO, PRINCE ANDREW—A SIMPLE KISS WILL SUFFICE!”

Mark Wright
