4 Friday, October 5, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Faculty To Consider Plans For Rusk Program

funding from the Rusk endowment.

The second term would concentrate on world problems, such as disarmament and world hunger. Students would write a research paper during this term. In the third term, the grant proposal says, the focus would be on the history, culture, and political economy of a particular area of the world.

German professor Hansford Epes will serve as coordinator of the Introduction to International Studies program. The program calls for two hours of “contact time” per week; the program would be worth one course credit.

Incoming freshmen have taken a test on international knowledge during freshman orientation for the past two years. The test has map identifications and questions about foreign leaders and economic and political knowledge.

According to the grant proposal, the results of the tests have shown a need for international education and exposure among freshmen.

“Despite Davidson’s freshmen being among the most highly qualified in the country,” the proposal says, “the level of scores reveals disturbing ignorance of international facts and events. We understand such ignorance to be common among entering freshmen. We want to do something about it.” Presently, incoming freshmen are asked to read a daily newspaper and a book on world politics before coming to Davidson.

The 1983 Faculty Report

A report to the faculty, submitted by the International Education Committee in November 1983, made several recommendations for the Rusk program in the areas of faculty, student, and community support.

For faculty, the report calls for income from the Rusk endowment to support additional professors, courses, and programs. It also suggests funds for faculty study abroad with priority given to professors with little international experience.

Student support would include emphasis on scholarships for the India and Spain programs. Also, the Rusk endowment should offer, the report said, grants for student study abroad during the summer. “Such grants might contribute both to the cost of the program and to summer earnings sacrificed to international study.” The Rusk program would work with students in arranging internships abroad, which “ordinarily” would not earn course credit. The report recommends that the College maintain a diversity of foreign students on campus.

Community involvement would also be a goal of the Rusk program. The program may include the creation of an International House on campus and the holding of “regular festivals with an international theme.”

Enthusiasm Wanes For Scholarships

these schools, Stell said Davidson students must exhibit greater willingness to become aware of and apply for these fellowships and scholarships. Stell also pointed out that “we need... students who are excited about the world of ideas and can communicate that excitement.” What distinguishes fellowship or scholarship recipients is “the caring spark” — they “make ideas their own,” he said.

(continued from page 1)

The committee attempts to reach students with potential to win a fellowship and encourages them to apply, Stell said. The top 10 percent of spring-term juniors receive letters explaining the fellowships and inviting them to discuss their options, he said. The response to the letters has been less than 20 percent, and open meetings held by the committee have had little response, he said.

Stell feels that the consistently small pool of applicants in the past few years may point to “a failure to take seriously the intellectual life,” he said. Education, rather than an intellectual pursuit, becomes a means to a “certain lifestyle,” he said.

Almost any student with the “spark” and qualifications can find a foundation whose interests match their own, he said.

Fellowships

A variety of foundations offer many opportunities. In addition to the Rhodes and Watson, there are the Fulbright, Luce, Marshall, Mellon, Rotary, and the National Science Foundation Fellowship, just to name some that are administered through Davidson.

Seniors interested in graduate fellowships should contact Stell as soon as possible.

A REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE

NEW YORK UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW

WILL BE AT DAVIDSON COLLEGE TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1984 FROM 9:00 TO 12:00

Sara Velez, Associate Director of Admissions Will Be Available To Meet With Students To Talk About The Law School and Answer Questions About Admissions

Call The Careers Office To Make An Appointment