10 Friday, November 2, 1984/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Production Manager
Kevin Horan, Business Manager
Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor
Will Thomason, Advertising Manager

Lock Your Doors

Last fall campus security arrested a man carrying a concealed weapon who claimed to be looking for a student who
was having an affair with his wife.

Last winter, Davidson seniors Malcolm Campbell and Chris Gunn stopped a man from entering Harding House. The man made sexually
suggestive comments to Campbell and Gunn about the women living there.

Last spring, a town resident drew a knife on a student who asked him to leave a closed party. He
also talked of killing all the members of a certain fraternity.

During Wednesday night and Thursday morning, intruders roamed freely through one of our dormitories. Almost an hour passed before anyone
reported the suspicious characters, even though the intruders walked into darkened rooms and attempted to gain entry into rooms where
the residents were awake.

This incident must not engender a sense of paranoia about outsiders. It must, however, as previous incidents should have done,
bring out a sense of savvy and prudent precaution among students. It is naive to expect a burglar intent on
collecting a stereo component or some jewelry to consider the implications of breaking the Honor Code. Precautions such as locked
doors and reporting suspicious characters to security are necessary; easy access to others’ rooms for honor-bound students means easy access
for non-students as well.

This incident must also cause Davidson to review its security set-up as well. The new dispatch system worked well, but
only after a threat had become apparent. Though locked dorms or extensive security measures (such as intercoms to page students
who have visitors) are unnecessary and undesirable, a combination of institutional changes and increased student awareness can go a long
way toward solving the problems.

More than one security officer should be on duty at a time. This would allow more efficient and helpful patrolling
of the campus, and would make response time even better than it was yesterday morning.

Reactivation of the SGA Security Committee is also necessary. Students concerned about campus security need a forum in which to
place their concerns before the administration.

The administration, too, needs to look into the increasing security problems to determine what actions, consistent with the atmosphere of
the College, it can take.

For the time being, however, students can guard their own safety by following rules of common sense.

Good Ideas

Among its other business, the SGA Senate on Tuesday discussed two new ideas worthy of further consideration. The first concerned
the relationship of SGA advisory boards and committees to the Senate as a whole. The second involved publishing senators’ votes.
Both entail small but needed changes in the way the Senate does business.

Senator Anne Miano suggested that the Senate monitor its sundry committees and advisory boards more closely. As it stands now,
SGA committees are only bound to make one yearly report to the Senate Executive Committee.

The Senate, however, conducts the major portion of its business through its committees; it serves mainly to ensure the committees’
more in-depth studies meet the needs of the students. Too often, the Senate forgets about its option — its duty
— to review, and change, if necessary, Committee actions.

Any step which makes Senate committees more accountable to the students through the Senate deserves a hearing.

The recording of senators’ roll call votes is also a procedural correction long overdue, as Warren Gould noted. In recent
memory, the Minutes has reported only the nature and the outcomes of Senate discussions, not arguments presented or voting records.
No reason exists why students should not know how their elected representatives have represented them.

We encourage senators to study these matters closely and to act positively on them.

Ross Holt, Editor

Letters

Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions
articles on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community.

We adhere to these guidelines:

1) We require that all articles be in our hands at 7 p.m. Monday.

2) We accept typed articles and those written legibly, double-spaced.

3) We require that opinions be signed. We will print unsigned articles only if compelling reason exists for withholding the
author’s name, and the author is known to either the editor or executive editor.

4) We will not edit opinions for style or content but we reserve the right to edit for rules of
common English. We will inform the author of substantial changes.

5) Since space for Opinions articles is limited, we reserve the right to select articles from those we receive for
publication. We will attempt to print any article we withhold from publication for space reasons the next week.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere to
these four guidelines:

1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.

2) We require that letters be neatly typed.

3) We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.

4) We reserve the right not to print letters that a) function as advertisements; b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or
inside jokes; c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in other letters printed on the same topic.
