8 Wednesday, December 5, 1984 / The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Young Lady Cats Expect Continued Improvement

By DWAYNE D. WRIGHT

After a disappointing 1983-84 season in which its only victories were of the moral type, the women’s basketball team is looking forward to the upcoming season with both optimism and enthusiasm. The Lady Cats will once again be a young squad. The team has only one senior, and only four players return from last year’s 0-25 team. However, Coach Patty Daley expects this year’s team to continue the improvement that marked last season’s end.

“This year’s team started out above the level that last year’s team ended on. I think that there is more potential for improvement both individually and team-wise.”

The top returners are senior guard Amy Hartman and sophomore forward Woody Cornelson. The two, who are co-captains of this year’s team, led the team in scoring last year with 9.1 and 5.8 averages respectively. Sophomore guard Mary Griffith, sophomore forward/center Heather McKee and freshman guard Betsy Rothschild also figure heavily in Daley’s plans, as do sophomore forward/center Wendy Warner and freshman center Elizabeth Price. Returning junior forward Debbie Adams, senior guard/forward Kerry Holbrook, junior guard Wendy Fulks and junior forward Amy Blackstock will add depth.

Daley also expects the team to end the season with a better record because of this year’s schedule. “There are still strong teams on the schedule but compared to last year we are not completely out of our league,” she said.

Because of additional height, Daley feels that the team will add an inside game to the good perimeter shooting of Hartman and Griffith. Offensively, the Lady Cats will use a 1-4 zone, although as the season progresses...

Cats Show Good And Bad After Four Games

By STEVE BYERS

If you're an optimist, you can say of the Davidson Wildcats that they have two victories, including one over a previously undefeated team, and gave Virginia, a team which reached the Final Four last season, all it could handle before losing by four. You can also point to the play of the guards, which has been excellent so far, and say that junior Pepper Bego is emerging as one of the best offensive players in the Southern Conference.

If you're a pessimist, however, you have just as much ammunition, if not more. So we gave Virginia a good game, you say, so what? This Cavalier team only vaguely resembles last season’s squad. Don't forget to mention that Chaminade rolled over us in the opener, you say. And as for that previously undefeated team, you argue, that was Wofford we beat, not some national powerhouse. And what about Erskine? Heck, the Cats won unconvincingly, 73-64, while Furman dominated this same team, 92-53.

Well, after four official games (and one exhibition), Davidson has had what might best be labeled as a good news/bad news year. The Cats traveled to Hawaii over Thanksgiving to play in Chaminade’s tournament, which is good news, I guess. Unfortunately, the team returned home with some sun and a lot of fond memories, but also with an 0-2 record. The hosts made short work of the Cats in the opener, defeating them 77-62.

On to Virginia for Game Two. Davidson should have won this game, but instead blew a lead in the closing minutes, and the Cavaliers held on for a 69-65 victory. Okay, two losses, but there were some bright spots. Bego, junior Jim McConkey and freshman Derek Rucker all played well, and Rucker was named to the all-tournament team.

Last Thursday, in the friendlier environment of Johnston Gym, the Cats played an exhibition against Marathon Oil. Same result, however. Davidson could have won this game also, but allowed itself to get out-rebounded — Marathon usually got two or three shots on offense — and turned the ball over 19 times. Still, the Cats hung tough, thanks to junior Gerry Born (13 points and five rebounds), before dropping a 70-67 decision.

In their official home opener Saturday night against Wofford, the Cats completely controlled the second half and won going away, 84-56. Bego, now more confident at shooting guard, led all scorers with 17 points. Sophomore Chris Heineman and Rucker, who are sharing time at the point, combined for 25 points and seven assists. At last, no bad news.Right? Wrong. Davidson committed a whopping 30 turnovers, which is inexcusable and usually fatal. Erskine’s Flying Fleet came to town Monday night with a 1-4 record, including losses to such powerhouses as Piedmont, USC-Aiken, and Claflin. The Cats did win by nine, but Erskine was smaller, slower, and not as deep as Davidson. That combination usually means a rout, but the Cats could not pull away. Bego continued to shine, scoring 25 and pulling down six rebounds. McConkey and Born, who played so well together last season, were back in the saddle again, combining for 28 points and 13 boards. Rucker added to the cause with 10 points and five assists. Davidson even cut down on its mistakes, committing only 10 turnovers this time. Then why the close game? Two reasons: one, Erskine played well and refused to get blown out, and two, the Cats were their own worst enemy, missing a lot of easy shots and getting careless when they could have done some serious damage.

This week Davidson plays twice in the Charlotte Coliseum, facing Wake Forest tonight and UNCC Saturday night. Tonight’s game could be interesting because the Deacons probably have one of the worst teams in recent years. But Wake still has firepower, namely 6’6” junior Kenny Green, one of the best players in the ACC, and sharpshooting guard Delaney Rudd. If the Cats are to upset the Deacons, two things must happen — Green has to be checked, and Davidson must control the boards.

The game with UNCC, for the Hornet’s Nest trophy (not exactly a showpiece for your living room), is potentially dangerous. UNCC Coach Hal Wissel, at Davidson Monday night scouting the Cats, bills his squad as “the youngest team in America.” So far, they’re “the worst team in America,” still winless after four games, and they even lost to Eckerd (or was that Revco?), an actual college basketball team. However, the 49’ers will have a full week to prepare for Davidson, and a winless team always breaks out of its slump at one point. Besides, this game has become a heated rivalry of late, so both teams should be ready to play. It appears that the best team Hussey can put on the floor is Bego, Rucker, McConkey, Born, and freshman Jeff Himes.

Daley hopes that they will be able to run the ball. On the defensive end of the court, the Lady Cats will use a man-to-man as well as a 2-1-2 zone with a twist to protect the inside. Daley does not think there is any pressure on the team to win a game, although she feels that they will be a happy bunch after their first win. “I don’t know if they feel it. I have talked about getting as much out of this weekend [The Wofford tournament] as possible as a team. We talk about results but there is a whole new attitude, in setting of goals.”

The women’s basketball team is a non-scholarship NCAA Division I program. In past years, the Lady Cats have been outclassed by opponents that have been bigger and better athletes. With this year’s weaker schedule, composed mostly of Division III schools, the Lady Cats have more of a chance to improve upon last year’s dismal record. However, do not expect too much from the team. It is still relatively inexperienced in the front court and lacks team speed. The backcourt is strong, but unless they get more rebounding and scoring up front, the Lady Cats could be in for another long season. Last season, the Lady Cats turned the ball over a phenomenal 923 times. You cannot score if you do not have the ball, so they will definitely have to improve in this area. The only significant rules change — a smaller ball — may help the team decrease its turnovers. The Lady Cats still have a long way to go as evidenced by opening losses to Wofford 102-43 and Brevard 90-43 in the Wofford Tournament last weekend. Hartman and McKee each scored ten points in the Wofford game to lead the Lady Cats. Hartman had 14 and Griffith 10 in the Brevard game. Continued improvement plus a weaker schedule should pay dividends for a team that has nowhere to go but up.

No. 31 Chris Heineman scores against Marathon Oil.