Friday, January 20, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Student Officer Jim Mashburn Studies People
By IDA PHILLIPS

A television show about Jim Mashburn’s experiences as a reserve police officer on the Cornelius police force would never skyrocket to the top of the ratings. Not that Mashburn’s work is unexciting, but the average viewer would not understand his opinion of the benefits of his job. Unlike Starsky and Hutch, Mashburn does not revel in speeding after criminals down the highway. Rather, Mashburn yearns to learn about people and their relationships by examining the criminal element.

A senior philosophy major, Mashburn is practically involved in an entirely different educational system in the police force. “A classroom education teaches you principles, which is very different from being out here. Here you can study how people work and how they get along with each other. You can see it in more detail than you can in a book,” he said. Like Rousseau, Mashburn believes in learning through experience.

Mashburn compares a police officer’s activities to those of a scientist in a lab. Each person he encounters offers him a glimpse of a different type of personality or relationship. “One day you may pull over a Cadillac with a doctor in it who makes $80,000 a year, then pull a member of a motorcycle gang. Investigating domestic disturbances, you can go into a mansion or a tenement. People’s problems are sometimes amazingly similar,” he said.

Prior to his work in Cornelius, Mashburn had some experience in law enforcement. In his home state of Georgia, he worked as a spotter in a police helicopter, pursuing criminals on foot or in speeding cars. After his freshman year in college, he began observing police work riding in patrol cars. “It was a whole new world — I loved it. After that it was pretty much one...

The Working World: Careers Office Provides Exploration
By DAN VOORHIS

On a warm spring morning next May, the members of the senior class will fling their caps into the air, joyous at finally escaping Davidson College. But many face the unsettling idea of surviving in the outside world, a potentially terrifying thought to those uncertain of their desires and options.

Aiding the metamorphosis from student to professional is the job of the Careers Office. Its task, in Director Ken Wood’s words, is to help the estimated two-thirds of the student body who use the office to “make the transfer from college to the working world.” Wood added that the office is designed only to support student efforts because “the responsibility is ultimately up to them.” Instead, the office outlines options and helps narrow down vague interests into a concrete objective. It then supplies crucial contacts to enable prospects to get their foot in the door. But it is the student who will do the work of getting the job.

Wood believes that experience is the only sure judge of the appropriateness of a particular position. This philosophy translates into an emphasis on hands-on experience and face-to-face discussion with someone in the profession. The programs in this vein include extern and intern programs, information-gathering interviews, guest speakers, and corporate representatives.

The office treats three major areas: “career exploration,” “experiential learning,” and “job placement,” that is, finding out what you want; finding out if you really like it; and getting someone to pay you for it. The first area involves counseling by the office and thinking by the student. The job must be both realistically available and enjoyable to the student to make such a match viable. For general impressions, the office has a large series of monographs describing various professions.

The second area gives students the experience of everyday work. The externships send a student to visit and sometimes work at a business or organization for a short time, perhaps a week. This can prove to be an enlightening...

Peggy Pierotti
Student office officer Jim Mashburn
Nobody’s immune to break-ins or domestic disturbances."thing after another." Mashburn began working with experience. Junior Clay Napper, interested in urban planning, externed at private agencies that built subsidized poor housing. Not enjoying the job, he reassessed his goals. Next summer, he will try out a new direction in an internship. The externship allowed him to gauge his ideas versus the reality of the job.

Of longer duration, internships usually last several months and include actually working in a job. Senior Beth Findlay took this term off and now interns at First Union Bank in Charlotte. In addition to gaining skills with computer systems, she has made contacts at that company and gained a valuable marketing point.

Careers Office Assistant Director Harriet Root has begun setting up a network of contacts in major cities. She started this year in New York with people in fields such as banking, insurance, publishing, and broadcasting. "It is a pool of information to make future judgments," Root said. "It should provide advice and strategies for approaching the job market." The 50 or so seniors went to New York over Christmas break. They set appointments with the appropriate contact and found out exactly what employment in, for instance, a huge bank in New York was like.

Related to the concept behind the New York network are the frequent trips into Charlotte to visit different types of corporations. These include anything from banking to not-for-profit organizations. Inversely, often there are receptions at Davidson to acquaint the students with the companies. This culminates in the on-campus job recruiting season beginning soon and lasting through the Spring. But Wood explained that while 70 percent of the 150 or so seniors that used the office got jobs by graduation, only 25 percent found one by having a representative recruit them. The more common pattern is for the student to recruit the company.

The last area, job placement, is in the hands of the student. The office teaches the skills necessary to successfully find one. Practice and criticism help perfect résumé writing and interviewing skills. They also provide the proper way to go about courting personnel directors and interviewers. The resources of the Careers Office are formidable. Students can receive help from lists of highly placed alumni and friends of Davidson who are often eager to help a student. The College's reputation also provides capital on the market. Mike Dickens, of the hotel company Guest Quarters, will begin visiting Davidson as a recruiter. But he is an alumnus and thus knows the quality of the graduating senior. "We come to Davidson because we know it's special. But we try to find a good fit between the person and the job," he said.

Davidson College security as a sophomore, writing parking tickets. After he moved up to working as a security officer, the college decided to hire a student as a campus police officer. Pursuing this job, Mashburn attended the police academy for three months and became a certified police officer. Mashburn was hired by the town of Cornelius in Dec. 1983. Mashburn’s devotion to his work is quite apparent. As a reserve police officer, he receives no pay and is required to work at least eight hours a month. Yet Mashburn often works from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. several nights a week. Although he is a reserve officer, he has all the duties of a regular policeman. As for these duties, Mashburn briefly described them as "driving around a while, and driving around some more." After twelve hours of these and various activities, Mashburn reports to class.

An important part of Mashburn’s future is based on his current employment. This year he will draw upon these experiences to write his senior thesis on law enforcement ethics. In the long term, he hopes his work will provide him with a position in the State Bureau of Investigation. Meanwhile, Mashburn juggles his time between schoolwork and his unusual extra-curricular activity. As he simply states, "Some people play basketball, and I’m a police officer."