Friday, March 16, 1984 / The Davidsonian

David Turgeon is this week’s Athlete of the Week. Turgeon, a freshman, has provided both good fielding and power hitting as the starting third baseman on the Wildcat baseball team. In a 13-11 win over Warren Wilson, he had eight RBIs, including a grand slam and a two-run homer. He also had three hits in a 7-6 upset of Wake Forest. On the season, Turgeon is batting over .350.

Golf Course, Ex-Touring Pro Enhance Golf Team’s Chances
By TODD WIEBUSCH

The Davidson College golf team begins the spring season with perhaps its best prospects for success in three or four years. Coached by Tom Cartmill, the relatively young squad is composed of seniors Gary Schenk (captain) and Dave Lincoln, junior Todd Wiebusch, sophomore Bob Carr, and freshmen Tyler Long and Tom Davis. Others on the team who are expected to compete for the Wildcats this year are senior Doug Henson, junior Steve MacMillan, sophomores Lee Neisler and Malcolm Prochaska, and freshman Bobby Downie.

This past fall, the Wildcats played in three tournaments: the Elon Invitational, the Davidson Invitational, and the Ground Hog Mountain Tournament, winning the Davidson Invitational, and finishing back in the field in the other two. Schenk and Davis were the leading golfers for the Cats this fall, but expect to be challenged this spring by the rest of what is proving to be a very competitive squad.

The team’s prospects this spring have been improved by two major developments. One is the recent opening of the Covington Golf Facility located near the baseball field. This provides the team with a convenient place on campus, thereby eliminating the need to drive the hour-long round trip to the Charlotte Country Club. The second development is the additional help to be provided by Tim Tallent, an ex-touring pro, now a well-known and respected teaching pro in the Carolinas. Tim will be traveling with the team to as many tournaments as his schedule will permit, helping them with advice and with practice sessions.

Currently, the team is playing intra-squad matches at Mallard Head Golf Course and Charlotte Country Club to compete for places on the team that will play against Western Carolina and Presbyterian College at Maggie Valley Country Club on March 20.

IF YOU WANT TO BE A PHYSICIAN, WE’LL PAY FOR IT.
If you’re willing to invest your skills and knowledge as an Air Force medical officer, we'll invest in you and pay your way through medical school. It’s the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program and it pays.

Cats Break Class Barriers In Conference Tennis
By KERRY BROWN

Over the years, Davidson tennis teams have been like blue-collar workers in collegiate tennis. The Davidson tennis players were the dedicated proletariat at a school with few athletic scholarships, and the school competed in the bourgeois collegiate tennis world that held them down.

However, now the Davidson tennis team has been lifted from the bottomless pit which holds most proletariat tennis programs. This pit resulted from bad recruiting (due to lack of money), tough scheduling (due to Southern Conference competition), and a rigorous academic load demanded from the bourgeois master. Now, the blue-collar workers of yesterday’s collegiate tennis world are threatening to break into the upper crust.of this tennis bourgeoisie. The team is looking for what the bourgeois have always had — copious victories. What events have drastically changed the situation of the Davidson proletariat? Davidson has seemingly gone under a continual revolution in a world where revolutionaries are usually held back, if not withering away. The students at least accommodate more classes. But Davidson’s surge to the top of Southern Conference Tennis has gone unnoticed. Davidson’s revolution has brought good recruits, more money, and in turn better records. The catalyst of these results is Jeff Frank, Head Coach of Davidson’s Men’s Tennis Team and the Lenin-like figure in this sports extravaganza. Frank laid the blueprints for the tennis surge and after 12 years at Davidson, has obtained what the bourgeoisie (teams like Furman and UTC) in the Southern Conference have always had — victories. Frank has just gained the 200th victory of his career at Davidson. What has Frank done to create a bunch of winners on the court? He has promoted the Davidson tennis organization to winners by good coaching, top-notch recruiting, dedication to his team, and a desire for them to improve — both on and off the tennis court. Only one question remains: Can the Cats continue their revolutionary surge and become big winners like the elite in the Southern Conference? “If we get everybody healthy we’ll have a real good year. If the guys play as scrappy as they can we could have a very good win-loss record, and our guys should give the big scholarship schools trouble,” said Frank. He has good reasons to make such bold assumptions. The Cats have returning lettermen in five of the six top positions, and the recruiting year for the Wildcats was successful. Davidson managed to lure excellent athletes such as Hayes Dallas, who won the Independents Cup for 18-and-under in Shreveport and who was once ranked second in North Carolina in the 18-and-under boys category; Trip Caldwell, an excellent player who ranked number one for Episcopal High School in Alexandria, Virginia (a tough region for prep tennis); and Michael Meyer of Charlotte who once was number nine in North Carolina. With these gunners going, the Proletariat Revolt looks promising. These players are fine complements to the returning veterans on the team. With Mark Nottingham, Andrew Yon, John Hackett, Bob Nichols, Sedge Gray, and Greg Hall returning, Davidson will be a potent force in the Southern Conference, one which some teams may dread to face. One such victim was Penn State. The Wildcats destroyed the Nittany Lions by a score of 6-3. Though Davidson is in the blossoming stage of the surge, the Cats still have one thing hindering them — lack of experience. As Frank says, the Cats are “experience-wise a year away from the Southern Conference Championship.” However, it’s always interesting to watch a revolution take place, and though the Cats are 2-2 the future is the stage for their march towards victory.

HAPPY for tuition, books, supplies, equipment and lab fees plus a monthly income of more than $550. See your Air Force recruiter for details. (TSGT BOB PAYNE CALL COLLECT 919-755-4134)

ST. PATRICK’S DAY! Friday and Saturday: Special on Irish Beer And 10% Off Everything in a Green Jar in the Store Trissy Lomax, owner 128 S. Main St.-Davidson, N.C 28036 892-7521