6 Friday, October 12, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Scholarship And Servanthood

Editor's note: the following is the text of President John Kuykendall’s convocation address.

Chairman Stair, President Spencer, Members of the Board of Trustees, Colleagues and Co-workers of the faculty, administration and staff, students whom we seek to serve and alumni whom this college began to serve in earlier days, honored companions in the enterprise of higher education, friends of this institution, and my own valued friends and loved ones:

I am obliged, both by constitution and conviction, to accept — to say, “I am,” “I will,” “I do.” And so: Lest there be any doubt, I do!

I recently heard of a man who, when faced with a task of indeterminate size and indefinite yield, expressed a desire that is painfully near my own: “I hope to do my best,” he said, “and I hope that no one knows that it was the best I could do!” I accept this job, with a pledge to do my best, and with the hope that my best will suffice.

I am also obliged on this occasion, not only by good manners, but as well by sentiments far more profound, to say my thanks: to you whose names are listed in my heart, for making this day such a special one for me; and thanks to you who have nominated and selected me for this job; and thanks to all of you who care about this institution, and express that caring in so many ways. I am profoundly grateful for the opportunity of joining you in the service and support of Davidson College.

Not long ago, I saw an article by a university president, lamenting the fact that contemporary presidential prose is all too often qualified and mollified to death by successive editings in order to avoid controversy and offense. It is, he supposed, a fact of modern academic life. We speak our minds only after testing the minds of all constituencies. That may be true. I hope not; though I am too new at this sort of job to know. I do know, however, that there are bound to be times in every human vocation when it is essential to speak plainly, candidly and with all necessary fervor about things that matter. Today, for me, is one of those times.

Today I want to tell you, as best I can, the basic presuppositions that will undergird the days I spend in this job at Davidson. I want to say something about what I believe and what I hope for, both for this college and, by implication, for higher education and the rest of our world. I want to say something about where we are going — not, to be sure, as though I already know the intricate turns and crossings of the journey — but as though I have a profound personal investment in the destination.

When Alice asked the Cheshire Cat, “Would you please tell me which way I ought to go from here?”, Cheshire Cat sagely — but half rightly — responded, “That depends on where you want to get to.” “Half-rightly,” I say because the part of me that is historian insists that “which way I ought to go” also depends on where I’ve been and where I am. Our heritage and our location inform our aspirations.

(Photographs by: Christian Harberts, Communications: Julie Danek and Bill Giduz)

Davidson College as we know it today is the result of a very distinctive set of influences and experiences. A list of the most important of these would certainly include the particularities of religious affiliation and geographical setting. With respect to the former, it is important to note that our Christian heritage has provided us a commitment to a sovereign God whom we know as Creator, Redeemer, and Sustainer. It has provided us with an appreciation for the natural order and the special nature and destiny of human life within it. It has provided us with...a realistic assessment of our circumstance, both as individuals and as a community, and of the need for renovation and renewal in both aspects of our living. It has provided us with a lively expectation of the outworking of God’s providential design and interaction both in and beyond the arena of history. Further, our particular theological inheritance — the Reformed tradition — has encouraged us to understand that there is unique reciprocity between faith and knowledge. Learning enhances the prospect of faith — Athens does have a great deal to do with Jerusalem — but faith also enhances the prospect of learning. Not to say, at least according to Calvin and his train, that you can learn your salvation; gnosticism is among the oldest heresies in the book. But it is to say that God is the Author of all that is true; that, therefore, all truth belongs to God; and that the pursuit of knowledge is not only our privilege, it is something of a spiritual calling. The world and what we can know about it is rendered sacred through God’s common grace. Thus our religious heritage informs our present circumstance.

The particularity of our geographic setting has also provided a very distinctive legacy. Davidson is situated in a nation that identifies itself — at least on its one-dollar bill, as novus ordo seclorum (a new order of the ages) — an order of life that puts both religion and education and the interaction between the two into a new context — intended to be open and free. Davidson is situated in a region of that nation which has known the distinctive experience of suffering and defeat — perhaps even tragedy — in a way quite singular for its inhabitants. It is situated, more precisely, in a part of that region which is bound — both in legend and in fact — to the fiercely independent mentality of political and religious revolutionaries who feared God so much that they found it impossible to yield ultimate allegiance to the pretensions of any mere human.

Take the sum of such legacies — and others that stand attendant beyond my time and skill to mention — and you have an institution that is attuned both to the things of the mind and to the things of the spirit; that is sensitive both to the human condition and to the conditions under which some humans are forced to live; that knows the meaning both of the word “freedom” and the word “responsibility;” and that strives for excellence with an unbeatable combination of veneration for knowledge and sheer cussedness.

As I have worried and worked these several weeks over what might be said to describe to you the future I hope to see, two words have recurred in my mind with persuasive frequency: scholarship and servanthood. I need to tell you, briefly, of some of the dreams that inhabit those words.

In a particular sense, the word scholarship has oftentimes connoted some sort of professional literacy, through which a chosen few, set apart by skill or station, set about to understand or reconstruct some idea or phenomenon. Without doubt, the enterprise thus undertaken is crucial: pushing back the boundaries of human knowledge so that it can be said, “We know this and this about ourselves and our environment that we did not know before.” But the value and virtue of such efforts in and of themselves can be difficult to assess. Knowledge simply for the scholar’s sake can be pedantry; and knowledge for knowledge’s sake can be idolatry; and knowledge for the sake of power can be blasphemy. That all truth belongs to God cannot prevent its willful abuse in human hands. From the best vantage of our heritage, however, scholarship is a vocation that is directed to the welfare of other people.

There is a gravestone in a cemetery one-half mile south of this spot that commemorates the life of a Davidson teacher dear to so many of my