THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXIV, Number 6
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, October 19, 1984

Council Finds Student Not Guilty In Open Hearing
Plagiarism Charge Results From Questions About Term Paper
By DAVID McGEE

The Honor Council last Tuesday, in a hearing that lasted seven hours, found sophomore Jeff Kusch not guilty of a plagiarism charge. Kusch did not admit guilt to the charge and chose to have an open hearing before the Honor Council. Approximately 150 students, faculty, and staff attended the hearing held upstairs in Eumenean Hall.

Student solicitors Mark Batten, Mike Mauzé, and Mike Tantillo called sociology Professor Peter Venturelli as their first witness. Venturelli’s testimony revealed the charge against Kusch resulted from a paper Kusch wrote last spring in Venturelli’s Sociology 102 class, “Deviance and Social Control.” Venturelli testified that he had suspicions of the assigned term paper Kusch turned in last spring.

He said the paper topic differed from what he and Kusch had discussed in the third or fourth week of last spring term. Venturelli said he had expected a paper on homosexuality from Kusch. Instead, Kusch turned in a paper May 15 titled “Government Intervention: A Problem For Society,” which dealt with how minimum wage laws and rent controls affect social deviance. Venturelli testified that “the topic was unfamiliar to me. We hadn’t discussed that topic. I thought the writing was different.” Venturelli said the change in the paper’s topic made him suspect an honor violation, and later he felt that the writing style differed from Kusch’s. With the assistance of economics Professor Louise Nelson, Venturelli said he checked the paper's (continued on page 4)

Student solicitors Mark Batten, Mike Tantillo, and Mike Mauzé confer with Honor Council Chairperson Nancy Rosselot

Peggy Pierotti
Dean's Office, Honor Council To Address Procedure Questions
By ROSS HOLT

Dean of Students Will Terry will make a proposal next week to put students' concerns about honor code procedure before the Student Conduct Council (SCC). In a similar move, Honor Council defense advisors and student solicitors will meet with Council Chairperson Nancy Rosselot next Tuesday to discuss problems in the Code of Disciplinary Procedures. The problems became apparent during the period between a spring term complaint against sophomore Jeff Kusch and Kusch’s open hearing last Tuesday.

Terry said his proposal would encompass a way for students to voice perceived problems stemming from the hearing to the SCC or the Honor Council. He said he has not worked out the mechanics of the proposal yet. Terry said he has no specific proposals for change himself, but is aware of increasing student concern over procedures he, the solicitors, and the honor council use in investigating suspected honor violations. “The honor system depends upon the perceptions of fairness the students have as a group,” he said. He added he was “interested in pursuing any changes the students feel are necessary.” The SCC is authorized in the Honor Code by-laws to make recommendations for changing the Code of Disciplinary Procedures to the president.

Defense advisors Tim Waples and Chris Blake also plan to address procedural questions in their meeting with Rosselot and solicitors Mark Batten, Mike Mauzé, and Mike Tantillo. Waples (continued on page 4)

Project Match Measures Student Development
By DAVID VAN PELT

Davidson's Project Match, a four-year study designed to examine students’ intellectual development and attitudes toward learning, is nearing completion, according to Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid John Griffith. Griffith, who wrote the program proposal and serves as its director, said the collected datais now under evaluation by a faculty committee, and results should be ready by next March. “I think there will be some interesting things to talk about,” he said. Griffith said he hopes to present the data at a conference next summer. “The purpose of the project has been to look at how students change internally in terms of their ability to engage knowledge from the ninth grade through the senior year in college.” Griffith said Davidson received a $165,000 grant from the Foundation for the Improvement of Post-Secondary Education to begin the project, and selected six colleges and five secondary schools to participate in the research. Colleges involved in the program consist of Pomona College, Vassar, Indiana University at Bloomington, Queen's College, and Pfeiffer College. Secondary schools include the North Carolina School of Science and Mathematics, Westbury School in Atlanta, Ga., St. Catherine's in Richmond, Va., Isidore Newman in New Orleans, La., and Woodberry Forest in Virginia. For his research here, Griffith tested (continued on page 3)

Humanities Program Awarded N.E.H. Grant
By TED WILSON

The National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) has awarded a $168,000 grant to Davidson's Humanities Program. According to physics Professor Robert Manning, project director for the grant, “we're going to use the NEH funds to make a good program even better. Developing effective writing skills is one of the most important things an undergraduate can do. By emphasizing good writing throughout the curriculum, we hope to encourage that development.”

Last March, the NEH rejected Davidson’s grant application, because of an inadequate description “of some of the programs that we understood but they didn’t.” Manning said “we were very encouraged [that the NEH] didn’t find any major faults in the proposal.” He said the revised plan, submitted last April, contained no major changes but was more precise and descriptive.

Manning said the grant will help finance four major Humanities projects. In June 1985, Humanities professors will attend a month-long seminar to discuss how to approach the material in the revised syllabus and “to learn how to be active teachers of composition,” he said. The program will employ four Davidson faculty members and two guest experts to teach the professors how to instruct their students effectively in writing compositions.

The second use of the grant, Manning said, will serve “to pay faculty to design and teach seminars for juniors and seniors who have already taken Humanities and wish to study in more detail what they learned in the program.” Manning emphasized that the seminars, taught by a team of current Humanities instructors and visiting professors, will take the form of interdisciplinary projects, which would require approval of the faculty.

Third, Manning said, the grant will “leave time for staff members to do interdisciplinary research.” The fourth plan will offer release time for faculty, who desire to be Humanities professors, to audit the program, he said. The grant will enable Davidson to hire professors to teach the classes that the professors drop in order to audit Humanities.

Next spring, as part of the program's revisions, the second-year Humanities professors “will take the last four weeks to teach individual seminars on topics of interest to the discussion leader.” Each professor will choose his own topic and material, and students will select their discussion leader depending on the issue on which they want to focus. The Humanities program changed this year’s syllabus, placing more emphasis on theme writing, two particular art periods instead of a survey of art, and less emphasis on the history of (continued on page 3)