Friday, September 21, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Trustees Approve New Building For WDAV
By DAVID VAN PELT

“We're hoping to be able to move in the summer of 1985, certainly before fall,” WDAV Station Manager John Clark
said of plans to relocate the station to a site across from Food Lion on Watson Street in Davidson. According
to Clark, construction of the new building, scheduled to commence this month, has yet to begin. “There is a little
more caution than ordinary,” he said. The Physical Plant is “real concerned about making sure the acoustic environment in the
building is right,” he said.

According to Clark, WDAV has needed a new location since it began broadcasting in 1978. About its present location in
the basement of the Union Building, Clark said, “It’s a totally inadequate place to have a radio station.” Noise from
student traffic and water pipes in the production studio disturb operations almost continually, he said. “To stay in the Union
won’t solve the problem,” Clark said.

The College looked at several existing buildings to house WDAV. A plan to move into the old Post Office fell
through when the Computer Center was given that space, Clark said. Earlier this year, he said, it appeared that the
station would move into a house recently purchased by the College after the house’s owner died. The town, however, refused
to rezone the area to allow the radio station to relocate there. Clark believes the Trustees’ decision in June in
favor of constructing a new building is the best option considering the “unique requirements” of a radio station.

A new building for the station makes up only a phase of a three-part plan to upgrade WDAV, according to
Clark. The station may purchase new broadcast equipment, including an audio production console, tape decks, microphones, and a satellite dish
with which to pick up WDAV’s syndicated programming. The station now receives that programming on prerecorded tapes. WDAV has already
purchased much of its new equipment, including several microphones and tape decks.

WDAV also plans to apply for an expansion of its power, from approximately 20,000 to 40,000 watts. The Federal Communications
Commission must approve the increase, which Clark estimated would take six to eight months. Though the Executive Committee of the
Trustees approved the construction of a new site, it postponed consideration of the new equipment purchase and power increase until
its next meeting in October. Clark feels confident that the Trustees will pass the resolution.

Clark estimated the cost of the WDAV improvement package at about $300,000, of which the College will pay half if
it approves the remaining proposals in October. The WDAV Advisory Board, a group of community volunteers in the Charlotte area,
will raise the other half. This is in addition to the station’s $233,000 yearly budget, of which the College donates
$50,000.

Though excited about the prospects of WDAV’s move, Clark acknowledged several problems which will accompany the relocation. The railroad tracks
separate the site from the Computer Center, which could lead to difficulties with the station’s hook-up, according to Clark. Clark
also expressed concern about the relation of the new building to WDAV’s transmitting tower south of Cornelius. WDAV currently uses
a microwave signal to relay programming to the transmitter. This procedure, according to Clark, requires a direct view of the
tower. If the new building does not provide this, Clark said, a new tower may be erected at a more
appropriate location, or a system could be set up to relay the WDAV signal from the new building to the
Union Building to the existing transmitting tower.

College To Drum Up Athletic Complex Funds
By RICHARD CLOUDT

Lack of funding continues to stall progress on the long-planned athletic complex. Vice-president for Development Jack Powers said the College
will not begin construction on the complex until sometime in 1987, although the new Knobloch tennis building now under construction
on the old soccer field should be completed sometime next spring.

The College has had several large donations, according to Powers, including a pledge from the Belk Foundation for $1 million
and $250,000 from an anonymous donor. Other smaller donations have been collected, but the College still needs approximately $8 million
before construction can begin. The fund-raising campaign, one of the largest projects on the 1987 Program’s list, is just getting
under way. “Our only problem is identifying and encouraging people who will have interest in donating large sums,” Powers said.
He noted that a single donation to Atlanta’s Emory University covered the entire expense of its new athletic facility. “If
we could find that one donor, we’d be ready to go,” Powers said.College President John Kuykendall has committed himself to
completing the campaign by 1987. Powers pointed out that the complex would strengthen the whole athletic program, for it would
give students a complete indoor recreation center. He said the new indoor tennis facility will do much to promote the
“up-and-coming” tennis program. The tennis facility was once part of the plan for the Athletic Complex. Originally the complex was
to consist of four principal parts. One section is to be a college-sized basketball arena. The second section of the
complex will be a swimming facility. The swimming program at Davidson has become almost non-existent for lack of an adequate
pool to host swim meets. The third section of the complex will be the central core containing offices for administration,
a weight room, and racquetball courts. The fourth section of the complex will house an all-purpose recreation room. Powers said
this part of the complex will either be changed or eliminated due to the decision to build the tennis facility.
The tennis facility is designed to mesh with the athletic complex, Athletic Director Ed Farrell said. But, Powers emphasized, it
is not connected with the athletic complex as far as funding is concerned.

By JILL BOYETTE

Like most Davidson freshmen, Cerue Diggs is having to adjust to an unfamiliar lifestyle. Coming to Davidson from Ivory Coast,
Africa, she also has the task of adjusting to an unfamiliar country. A well-traveled 18-year-old, Diggs has lived in Liberia,
Nigeria, Kenya, and Guyana as well as the United States. “I’m a citizen of the world,” she said. “I’ve seen
so much it makes me different. I’ve had to learn to like each place where I’ve lived.” Diggs visited Davidson
last fall and decided to attend school here. She was attracted by the school’s high academic standards and friendly atmosphere.
“I don’t feel lost anymore. It was a shock here, the first days; it was a drastic change of people
and climate. I am not quite accustomed to hearing so much English. I have not used my English for a
long time,” she said. She added that Americans are very different from Africans. She feels that Americans are liberated and
used to saying what they think. “A woman wearing shorts would not be accepted at home, yet here it is
nothing,” she noted. Diggs noted that personal relationships here are also more open. She said friendships between members of the
opposite sex are very rare in Africa. She sees the abundance of such friendships in the United States as an
advantage. Advantages in the American school system also impressed Diggs. “American schools make the student like school — that’s good.
We had so much work [in Africa] . . . we were strained.” Davidson's Honor Code was very appealing to
Cerue. No rules against theft, for example, existed at her high school in Abidjan, Ivory Coast. Diggs hopes to become
a doctor because she enjoys sciences, especially anatomy and biology. As a world traveler, she also enjoys languages. She speaks
German and is fluent in English and French. Her voyage to the United States, she said, was strenuous because of
the long waits and tedious problems. “There is trouble all over the world and everyone is running to the United
States. They will not let you in the States unless they know exactly why you are going.” The Ivory Coast
is presently troubled by corruption and political tensions, according to Diggs. “When I lived in Nigeria I witnessed a coup
d'etat. There were people running in the streets, screaming. I heard shots and saw men shooting guns,” she said. A
similar incident occurred at Diggs’s all-girl boarding school in Abidjan. “The students of the only university went on strike... .
They asked all the high schools to join them. We declined, so they came and broke our windows and threatened
us. We were forced to change our uniforms before leaving school so they could not identify us.” A noticeable contrast
to such political turmoil is apparent at Davidson, where Cerue finds the students nice but reserved. “They treat me more
formally — no one jokes or teases with me,” she said. “But,” she added, “I don’t feel left out. I
have made some very good friends here. They make me feel comfortable — they make me feel at home.” Diggs
offered some advice to other foreign students. “In America, everything is possible; it's never too late to learn. Take advantage
of all the opportunities to learn. There is so much and we have time here.” Diggs is the daughter of
Professor of International Affairs Lafayette Diggs.
