Friday, January 13, 1984 / The Davidsonian 9

Hissam Leads Wrestlers In A Rebuilding Season

By STEVE BYERS
Wrestling Coach Vince Arduini describes the upcoming season best when he says, “It’s going to be a struggle.” With only
eight wrestlers on this year’s team, any dual matches are almost guaranteed losses.

There is one thing, however, of which Arduini can be certain. The team’s fortunes ride on the back of senior
Tom Hissam.

Last year Hissam finished third in his weight class in the Southern Conference tournament and third in the NAIA District
26 tournament. A Southern Conference title and a shot at the NCAA tournament are very realistic goals for Hissam this
season. But he is not a one-man team. Senior John Breidenstine and Junior co-captain Mike Keeley are being counted on
for victories and leadership, and the other five wrestlers all have the ability to contribute.

Arduini sees the team’s schedule, which runs from Jan. 11 to Feb. 25, as demanding, with Elon, Washington and Lee,
and the University of the South being especially tough. Although the team will be rewarded only through the individual awards
which Hissam, Breidenstine, or Keeley may receive, Arduini remains proud of the team’s commitment to the sport. In his second
year as head coach of the program, Arduini admires his current group of wrestlers and the inherent pressures which they
must overcome to succeed.

Davidson’s wrestling program is hampered in many ways: lack of scholarships, grueling physical demands of the sport (not the least
of which is having to make a certain weight by a certain time), and the omnipresent academic pressures of Davidson
on top of all else. Eight wrestlers may not be many, but it is a tribute to Arduini and the
program that there are eight guys willing to give so much of themselves with little hope of team success. In
other words, support the wrestlers when they have a match at home. They deserve it.

Lady Cats Now 0-7

By DAVID RESNIK

They may be down, but they're not out. Davidson's women's basketball now has a record of 0-7, but coach Pat
Daley said her team has remained enthusiastic and continues to improve.

The team played no games over the holidays and came back for two days of practice earlier this week. The
Ladycats played at Coker last night and have a home game at UNC-Asheville at 7 p.m. tonight.

Daley said her team is concentrating on individual and group improvement, and she hopes they will continue to improve as
the season progresses.

This week’s Athlete of the Week is Kenny Wilson, who was also named Southern Conference Player of the Week. Over
Christmas break Wilson led the Wildcats to a comeback win over Furman and a one-point upset of the University of
South Carolina. Against USC he scored 29 of the team’s 53 points.

In a 61-56 loss to rival UNC-Charlotte Monday he pulled down five rebounds and was the game’s high scorer with
23 points, including eight straight points which sparked a second-half comeback effort. Wilson, the first two-time Athlete of the Week,
is a senior from Fayetteville, N.C.

After Graduation Consider What One More Year of College Will Earn You

Peabody College of Vanderbilt University offers Masters Degrees leading to careers in:
- Human Resource Development in Corporations
- Policy Development and Program Evaluation
- College Student Personnel Services
- Library and Information Science
- Teaching

For information about these and other programs write or call:

Office of Admissions & Financial Aid
Room 210, Peabody College
Vanderbilt University
Nashville, TN 37203
615-322-8410

Please send me information about Peabody College of Vanderbilt University

NAME
ADDRESS
CITY
STATE ZIP
UNDERGRADUATE COLLEGE
GRADUATION DATE
