Wednesday, December 5, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Music
By STEVE MANK

These days, making a record costs a whole lot of money. Big record companies cannot afford to go putting out upwards of ten thousand dollars for every group which comes along that might make it. If the “majors” don’t want to take a gamble they shouldn’t have to — who are up-and-coming musicians to stand in the way of good ol’ American capitalism? Fortunately, there is the EP. If an American band (British bands can make it on nationality alone) wants just one chance in the spotlight, a record company may give them an EP of four, five, or six songs. If the band is good, it will get exposure; if not, the company stands to lose a lot less than if it had released a full album. This “probationary rock” launched the careers of R.E.M., The Alarm, and Let’s Active, among others. That said, it’s time for yet another EP roundup.

Love Tractor
Round these parts, Love Tractor, perhaps the most promising group that plays Patterson Court, has always made a big stir. The band’s pizzicato guitars, often unaccompanied by vocals, have won it much critical, but little popular adulation. The group’s new disc, 'Til the Cows Come Home, follows the same tradition, though it is stronger vocally. The best song, “Neon Lights” (a Kraftwerk cover), is for a change vocally complete. It seems strange that group members sing so infrequently — their voices are hardly lacking. What makes the combo great, though, are songs like “March” and “Cutting Corners (Cultural Version),” which begin slow and, instead of falling back on the old reliable drum and power chord explosion, simply add variations on the theme.

The Pressure Boys
Chapel Hill, N.C., home of Other Bright Colors and [plus] 2, is trying really hard to be the next Athens, and with the release of the first EP from favorite sons The Pressure Boys, it may very well do it. The four-song Rangle- doon, is, if anything, ska-oriented pop that’s careful not to step on the toes of Madness or The English Beat. Lacy guitar work on the backbeat and sung/spoken vocals uttered at breakneck speed highlight the first song, “Where the Cowboys Went.” “Policemen (in my Neighbor’s Yard)” is strong ska, while “Fakin’ Dub” is reminiscent of some of The Clash’s most effective reggae excursions. In addition, the Pressure Boys have about the best sense of humor in pop music. The EP comes complete with a “bonus blank side included free.” The logo of their own Root Da Doot Doo record label contains a pig which you can dress up in a cutout Indian suit, space suit, or pirate suit, among others, and affix to the record with the aid of “PRESSURE BOYS brand ARTIST CEMENT, or PRESSURE BOYS brand 3/4" WOOD SCREWS [purchased separately].”

The Wind
The Wind’s Guest of the Staphs, produced by Mitch Easter, is like a trip into the sixties. The group does not sound like a revisionist band — they can’t even be compared that easily to any band of that era — but they retain that same flavor and quality of many groups from, say, 1966. “House on Fire” is as punchy a pop song as ever was. Try to imagine a group singing “I’m a sureshot baby/ I’m a sureshot baby/ I’m a sureshot baby/ I’m a sureshot, Sure Shot.” and getting away with it. The Wind did.

It's A Wonderful Life Embodies Christmas Spirit
By CRAIG DETWEILER

Frank Capra’s finest film, It’s A Wonderful Life deals with nothing less than the unfulfilled American Dream, false measures of success, and the spirit of Christmas. It’s a Wonderful Life centers on an all-American, wholesome, good guy named George Bailey, who contemplates suicide. Appealing to the heart and emotion within all people, Capra’s film entertains, involves, and inspires the audience in ways current movies do not even attempt. Not about divorce, espionage, homosexuality, or murder, It’s a Wonderful Life celebrates the significant contributions...of one individual to others. In an existentialist era, Capra dares to present the positive impact of one simple, modest man, George Bailey. Capra’s motion picture involves people and places that may appear overly cute, maudlin, and clean-cut. George, superbly portrayed by James Stewart, always makes the self-sacrificing, right decisions that normal folks abandon. Through flashbacks, the plot reveals that Bailey’s choices lead him to financial hardship and a confining small-town existence. While George prepares to end what he believes is a useless, failed life, God sends a clever, grandfatherly angel to George to offer a different perspective. The angel, named Clarence Oddbody (Ward Bond), takes Bailey on a trip through history that reveals what others’ lives would be like if George had not existed. Clarence shows George what Bedford Falls, a community quite similar to Davidson, would have become if he’d never lived. George leads his townspeople away from alcoholism, prostitution, foreclosure, and death. Compared to the cynical, tainted anti-heroes of modern cinema, George seems almost sickeningly sweet and innocent. Instead of detracting from the film though, George’s naive goodness refreshes and charms modern viewers barraged by gritty, depressing films. As pure fantasy, It’s a Wonderful Life entertains the audience in the timeless, pure style of the good old days. They really don’t make ’em like this anymore.

On the surface, one may find the movie pleasant, unrealistic light comedy, but it contains deep, universal thoughts and hopes. Through the protagonist’s life, Capra comments upon the shifting moods of folks from World War I to its release date, 1946. Bailey’s references to big plans and great adventures parallel the boisterousness of the roaring twenties. The young George expresses optimistic dreams of life outside Bedford Falls. Whenever George appears ready to depart his hometown, the needs of others cause him to remain. As a financier for Bedford Falls, George witnesses the devastating effect of the Great Depression upon middle America. When he realizes that his dreams have not come to fruition, George experiences hopelessness similar to the post-war period. In the character of the cold, cruel businessman Mr. Potter (Lionel Barrymore), Capra embodies the alienation caused by capitalism and industry. While the world measures success by wars won, power gained, and money acquired, George opts for unappreciated charity, humanitarianism, and self-denial.

It’s a Wonderful Life works because the audience identifies with George's plight. His yearning to make an impact and be noticed strikes at a basic human need. Capra does not explore just one man’s life, but every individual's desires, needs, and dreams. Through the character of George Bailey, Capra conveys his message concerning the true nature of Christmas. It’s a Wonderful Life inspires and warms the heart because it celebrates the belief that it’s more blessed to give than receive. George's guardian angel amplifies instances of giving that produced a harvest of goodness, warmth, and righteousness. Capra and his hero understand that Christmas isn't about snowmen, reindeer, parties, elves, and mistletoe. George gives of himself expecting little in return. When George’s tireless giving finally receives attention and reward, one understands the truth and beauty of giving, especially during Christmas. Capra communicates that true love can be found in George's sacrifice of his life for others, and our unselfish gift-giving at Christmas. I dare you not to cry at the moving moments of reunion, reconciliation, and renewal that George and the entire audience experience during It’s a Wonderful Life. In crying out “Please God, I want to live,” George Bailey expresses his desire to embrace and celebrate his God-given life to its fullest, most abundant extent. By relating to George's plea for a meaningful, significant life, one can laugh, cry, marvel, delight, and rejoice with what is a wonderful movie.

NEED CASH? Earn $500 or more each school year, 2-4 (flexible) hours per week placing and filling posters on campus. Serious workers only; we give recommendations. Call now for summer & next fall. 1-800-243-6679.