10 Friday, May 4, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Davidson Signs Six Basketball Recruits Over Year
By STEVE SOUD

The Davidson basketball program continued on its path to resurgence as it signed five outstanding high school seniors and one
junior college transfer for next season. The first two signings occurred in November as part of the NCAA's second-year early
signing program. The remaining four were signed in April; the players are listed in chronological order of signing.

Dean Keener
Keener was one of Ohio’s leading players this past year, as he led Tallmadge High to an excellent season. As
a junior, he averaged 14.9 ppg, six rpg, and four assists per game. He can play either point guard or
second guard. “His strongest asset is outside shooting,” assistant coach Robbie Hicklin explained, “and he is an exceptional playmaker.” Keener’s
high school coach Jim Maddox lauded, “Dean is outstanding in every respect. He is fundamentally sound on the court and
a good person in general. I am confident he will be a success in whatever he does.”

Wolfe, Neibuhr Participate In International Hoops Tour
By HUNTER GOURLEY

Ah, remember those great high school days when a summer job meant a little pocket money to foot those beach
trips and basketball camps? Then BOOM. You graduated, went to college, and found out those summer jobs don’t allot the
time for sunning at the beach, much less the money. And basketball? Well, no longer eligible for the summer camps,
Michael Jordan took your spot on Knight’s Olympic squad. But it is not that big of a deal for hackers,
since we didn’t have too much to lose in the first place.

This isn’t the case for most Division I athletes, whose coaches expect them to spend a great deal of time
on American courts during the summer. Davidson’s Ken Niebuhr and Ted Wolfe, Steve Hale of UNC-CH, Reid Gettys of Houston,
and Ray Gromlowicz, to name a few players, have decided differently. Enough is enough. They’ve made up their minds not
to step onto any of their respective coaches’ favorite American courts — that is, indoor or out. No, they are
not involved in any player-coach conflicts. In fact, coaches Hussey, Smith, Lewis, and Wissel like what their players are not
doing — or rather, what they are going to do.

These guys are still going to play ball; they simply are not playing in the States. They have chosen to
play for one of three Athletes in Action teams, as part of the AIA International Tours basketball program. AIA is
a non-profit Christian organization that fields teams of college and past college Christian athletes in a variety of different sports.
Niebuhr and Wolfe are participating in the summer basketball program, just one facet of the International Tours ministry. International Tours
sends athletes to different countries around the world.

The AIA brochure explains the purpose and logic behind the combination of sports and religion. “Sports is one of the
world’s great international languages. No matter what the game or where it is played, crowds will gather to experience the
drama of competition. AIA teams make use of this opportunity to tell other people something about Christianity. Thousands will evaluate
what they say by how they play.”

Niebuhr will be leaving with his team to play in Europe (and Eastern Europe) on July 25. Wolfe leaves June
1, for Asia (the Philippines and China), with his team. They will be abroad for over a month honing their
basketball skills and spreading the gospel. Not a bad way to spend the summer. But they have a fairly difficult
obstacle to overcome first — more of a problem than the lack of a few beach trips, camps, or the
broken rim out back. Niebuhr and Wolfe must come up with about $4,000 each to cover their expenses. While some
financial assistance will come through churches and other benevolent organizations, some help would also be greatly appreciated from their friends.

Classifieds
LOST — Two twenty dollar bills on Wednesday — left somewhere on campus. If found, please call 892-6162 or leave
at Union desk.

FOR RENT — Spacious modern apartment-type facility in private home; accommodates 3 persons; 2 bedrooms, bath, kitchen (with stove, refrigerator,
table), lounge/pool room, private entrance; located 1 1/4 miles from campus. Interested persons may call 892-7696 after 6 p.m. for
further information and appointment.

PETS — How would you like a beauti-. . . full, grey kitten with blue eyes? Well, we've got two
of them, one solid, one striped, and we're searching for prospective homes. They’re three weeks old now, but will be
ready to go in about three more. They make great graduation presents. Come by Marton Manner or call -3454. Also,
we have a very gentle mother cat, soon to be spayed, to give away.

Pos Keener, MVP of the Metro Conference as a junior, and nominee to All-District and All-Northwest Ohio teams as well,
“fell in love” with Davidson and its campus. “After visiting several schools it became apparent Davidson was the best for
me, both academically and athletically. I was looking for a school that would prepare me for what comes after four
years of basketball.”

Terry Rupp
Rupp, a 6’6”, 225-pound senior at Tampa’s Jesuit High School, was a USA Today and Street and Smith Honorable Mention
All-America. He led Jesuit to the Florida state Catholic league championship. As a junior, Rupp garnered All-State honors as he
averaged 25 ppg and 14.7 rpg. In an early 1983-84 game he scored 42 points and grabbed 18 rebounds. Moreover,
Rupp is an outstanding baseball player and likely to be chosen in the draft this year. Coach Bobby Hussey, who
expects to fill the hole Kenny Wilson is leaving, said Rupp “has the strength to play inside and is also
an outstanding shooter from the wing.” Rupp explained, “I felt Davidson was the best place for me. Davidson has a
very good nucleus coming back. I think I can fit in well with Davidson’s returning players. And Davidson can prepare
me for whatever is beyond basketball.” “The only thing that surpasses his basketball talent,” stated Jesuit coach John Szponar, “is
his great desire for the game.”

Jeff Himes
Himes, a 6’4”, 190-pound forward, was selected to the All-South Carolina team for a second consecutive year. He averaged 19.2
ppg and 7 rpg, and is described by Hussey as a “Kenny Wilson-type of player. We look for Jeff to
play small forward. He has very good athletic ability, particularly quickness and jumping ability.” Himes set career scoring (1,496) and
rebounding (398) records at Irmo High School. An outstanding student, he is president of his class and secretary of Irmo’s
Fellowship of Christian Athletes. Irmo coach Tim Whipple said, “I think Davidson has gotten a very good player and student.”

Derek Rucker
Rucker, the 6’0”, 160-pound son of former Cleveland Brown Reggie Rucker, is described by Hussey as a “very fine point
guard.” He led the University School of Chagrin Falls, Ohio to a 26-2 record and was named to the Ohio
AA All-State team. Rucker averaged 18.6 ppg, seven assists per game, three steals per game, five rpg, and shot 56
percent from the field. He was named to the Cleveland Plain Dealer's Dream Team and All-Scholastic Team, as well as
being selected Cleveland’s Private School Player of the Year. “Derek Rucker is a great college prospect,” said University School coach
Jeff Morton. “He sees the whole floor. In fact, he often sees open players before they know they’re open. His
quickness made it impossible for teams to press us.”

Dave Fitzgerald
Fitzgerald, a 6’7”, 190-pound forward, averaged 19.8 ppg and 13.5 rpg this year. He is a three-sport standout for Maple
Shades (NJ) High School, starring at quarterback and is a professional baseball prospect as well. He has twice been an
All-Burlington County pick in basketball. “Because of Dave’s involvement with these sports he has not attended the most highly-publicized recruiting
camps,” Hussey stated. “He is a good shooter and handles the ball well.” Despite missing part of his senior season
due to injury, he finished as the county’s third leading career scorer.

Patrick Riazza
Davidson announced Riazza’s signing Wednesday. He is a transfer from Henry Ford Junior College in Michigan. At 5’11”, 175 pounds,
Riazza averaged 18.5 ppg and six assists per game as a point guard. He was All-State and All-Region 12 for
a 21-9 team. “He’s one of the hardest working players I've had,” said Coach Jim Armitage. “He is a good
shooter to 20 feet and should be a good college scorer.”

2900 I-85 South
AMERICARE COMPUTERS
Printers and Disk Drives Repaired
Service Contracts
This ad is worth $15 towards Repair or Service Contract. (Offer ends May 31, 1984)
Xerox Service Center
Charlotte, NC 28208
(704) 398-1523

Saturday, May 5
PLAY 1229 Tyvola
