From The Concession Stand.

_ Georgia Tech Heads for Top Of Conference Heap

By STEVE BYERS

Back in August when Georgia Tech Coach Bill Curry predicted his Yellow Jackets would win the ACC, most people just
smiled politely and said no way. Now, heading into the fourth game of the season, Curry has led the Jackets
to a 3-0 record, including wins over Alabama and Clemson. Tech still has some tough games left, and it has
yet to play away from home, so the jury is still out.

But come Thanksgiving Georgia Tech could very well be sitting atop the conference. And football fans will take Bill Curry
a little more seriously next August.

Question: How in the world did Syracuse beat mighty Nebraska last Saturday? Answer: Nebraska fell victim to the ol’ Sports
Illustrated cover jinx. (Longhorns Beware!) Question: If your team’s offense is having trouble getting untracked, what do you do? Answer:
Hope your team plays North Carolina soon. Question: What are two things that are getting old really fast? Answer: The
“Wave” cheer and ABC’s liberal use of the Super Slo-Mo replay.

The pro football season is only five weeks old, and already I’m bored. I miss Gastineau’s Sack Dance, the Redskins’
Fun Bunch and Butch Johnson’s California Quake. Bring back Billy “White Shoes” Johnson. Allow any and all end zone celebrations.
They were always good for a few fights, and people watch pro football to see the spikes and finger pointing,
anyway.

So far this year, UT-Chattanooga appears to be the team to beat in the Southern Conference. The Moccasins already have
big victories over Western Carolina and Furman, the only other teams expected to challenge for the title this season.

Elsewhere in college football, it seems that there has been a changing of the guard. Alabama is 1-3, Pitt is
0-4, and Auburn and Clemson are 2-2. Meanwhile, Boston College, Florida State, and Oklahoma State are all undefeated.

And how ’bout this past baseball season? The Baltimore Orioles, far and away the best team in 1983, finished 19
games out this year (although they would have won the A.L. West). The Milwaukee Brewers, a.k.a. Harvey’s Wallbangers of a
few years ago, hit the fewest home runs in the American League.

In the National League the Cubs and Mets battled it out for a division title, while the Pirates finished dead
last in the East, despite having the best ERA in the majors. That translates as no hitting.

Yes, this was a wacky year in baseball, and some heads have rolled because of it. Look for seven teams
to have new managers next year. I’m including the N.Y. Yankees, of course, even though George hasn’t fired Yogi Berra
yet. It’s just a matter of time. Speaking of scapegoats, there was no bigger one than Joe Torre in Atlanta,
and that’s too bad. What really killed the Braves this year was injuries and a bad front-office trade, neither of
which was Torre’s fault.

Returning to the gridiron for a minute, Monday Night Football had better start consistently scheduling some decent games, or even
hard-core fans like myself will stop watching. Last year’s St. Louis-N.Y. Giants game was so bad it was funny, and
this week's Cincinnati-Pittsburgh contest wasn't exactly memorable. Some of these matchups may have looked promising a few years ago, but
they are strictly yawn ball today.
