6 Wednesday, December 5, 1984 / The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Shi’s New Book Examines Simple Living

By IDA PHILLIPS

“Simplicity in its essence demands neither a vow of poverty nor a life of rural homesteading. As an ethic of self-conscious material moderation, it can be practiced in cities and suburbs, townhouses and condominiums. It requires neither a log cabin nor a hairshirt but a deliberate ordering of priorities so as to distinguish between the necessary and superfluous, useful and wasteful, beautiful and vulgar.”

This description of simplicity reflects the discoveries made by history professor David Shi in his recent book, The Simple Life. Subtitled Plain Living and High Thinking in American Culture, Shi’s book examines the varying forms of simple living which have been pursued throughout American history by groups as diverse as the Quakers and the hippies.

In a recent interview, Shi explained his initial interest in a study of the simple life: “During the late 1970s, in the midst of the national discussion concerning the energy and ecological crises, I was struck by President Carter’s attempt to promote traditional patterns of plain living and high thinking. As a cultural historian I realized that his message had been delivered by many previous statesmen and public officials. So I decided to try to trace the ideal of simple living in its various manifestations through the course of American history, focusing on representative groups and individuals.”

According to Shi, the simple life cannot be encompassed in a concise definition. The many Americans who have pursued simple living throughout history have done so in a great variety of ways. Yet Shi found a common denominator among the people: “One of my first discoveries was the ambiguity entailed in the concept of the simple life. There have been and still are many versions of simple living in the American experience. Some people have been almost primitive in their simplicity; some have been quite affluent. What they held in common, I decided, was the belief that material desires and activities should not be allowed to compromise ‘higher’ concerns — family, community, faith, aesthetic enjoyment, self-culture. That is, one should carefully organize one’s life around the principle of enlightened material restraint.”

Dr. David Shi

Shi discovered that the nature of American society has made the pursuit of “material restraint” an increasingly difficult task. He concluded, “The simple life has always been, and probably always will be, a minority doctrine. This is not hard to understand. Human nature leads us to want more and more things and constantly wars against simplicity. I do think, however, that it was much easier in previous centuries to lead such a life than today, since the hedonistic imperatives of our consumer-oriented economy are so powerful and ever-present.”

The phrase, “plain living and high thinking,” suggests that the simple life involves more than just living simply. Shi attributed the phrase to Wordsworth, saying, “Emerson borrowed it and used it repeatedly to describe the core of his Transcendental ethic. I borrowed it to help further define what I meant by simple living. My concern as an intellectual and cultural historian was not simply to examine those who live at a subsistence level but rather to examine those Americans who consciously chose to simplify their lives in order to engage in preferred forms of ‘high thinking.’”

Shi believes that the “enriching experience” of writing historical inquiries benefits him both as a teacher and a historian. Not only does research and writing strengthen his historical knowledge, he finds that often this acquired knowledge is “directly relevant to my courses.” In the case of The Simple Life, his subject matter applies to his own life as well, for Shi contends that “college teaching almost necessarily entails a commitment to plain living and high thinking.”

Shi has also written Matthew Josephson: Bourgeois Bohemian, for which he received a Pulitzer Prize nomination in 1981. He has contributed to such magazines as American Heritage, Sojourners, and Virginia Quarterly Review. He is currently working on The Strenuous Era: Realism in American Thought and Culture.

Peggy Pierotti

On Mozart's Hair And Tobacco

First there was Warren Beatty as John Reed, the “Red” we'd all love to love. Then came Ben Kingsley as the adorable Gandhi, and nonviolence “arrived.” Sam Shepard as Chuck Yeager was logical enough, and now we have yet another in the pantheon of history’s interesting people turned into long movies: Mozart, played by Animal House’s Tom Hulce.

The future of Mozart after his incarnation in Amadeus seems clear enough. First, Christmas season is the children’s season, and what better way to get some highbrow culture to your kids than through the Amadeus Team (you can call them the A-Team) series of action figures. Imagine the fun as Salieri ruins Wolfie again and again, as Figaro belts out those arias, as those asylum lunatics rattle those bars.

Then, for the family, we have All-Amadeus Trivia for those cold winter nights. How much gold did Mozart get for the Requiem Mass? What are Mozart's last words in the film? How long did it take for Hulce to cultivate that laugh?

MORE OR LESS

By ANN MEADOR

Finally, the Franklin Mint proudly introduces its latest collector’s edition: Mozart's Hair. A limited edition (limited to whoever will buy it) of 32 historically researched wigs, lovingly reproduced in the finest acetate and Herculon for easy laundering. From pink to white, curly to straight, all the hair you see in Amadeus is available to the discerning collector. Christmas justHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Got a little greener. Chewing the Fat Beats This Imagine all the junk on the floor of the Par 4: Hunks of cigarettes, little pieces of dirt, dissociated Fritos bags. Then imagine putting it in your mouth and chewing it. This is Red Man. I, along with three other young women, chewed tobacco last weekend, and we didn’t even get any money for it. Our sole motivation: to say we did it, those dangerous words. It was all because of two things: Thomas and his bag of Red Man. There he sat, pleasantly chewing his tobacco. (“You don’t actually chew it,” he told us), leaning casually over the deck rail to spit, nonchalantly resuming his position. Within a few minutes, he had us believing it was fun. Relaxing, I think he even said.

Next Week: The More or Less Holiday Parade of Homes.

Boston Camerata Recreates Medieval Christmas Celebration
by BILL BUGG

The celebration of Christmas in medieval times was as rich and diverse as it is foreign to the modern ear. And with all the color of a dozen ancient instruments and human voices, with all the diversity of 600 years of music, The Boston Camerata performed a Christmas celebration in the spirit of the age Sunday night for the Artist Series. Director Joel Cohen united the diversity through a synthesis of voice and instrument, music and drama, paganism and Christianity, centering the celebration on the theme of Christ’s birth.

Sunday’s program was varied: the concert spanned the late middle ages to the early Renaissance, and included elements of both pagan rituals of winter solstice and the observation of Christmas. It featured a variety of instruments (from the psaltery, a type of zither then thought to have been played by King David, to the shawm, a colorful reed instrument related to the oboe); voices (from low bass to high countertenor and soprano); and pieces (from processions to chants). Yet through the variety, the Camerata illuminated the beauty and richness of an age of tensions; in its medieval celebration, it revealed the depth and complexity of our own celebration of Christmas.

The concert was divided into five sections. The first, Prophecies, blended the Hebrew prophecies with the traditions of the Church. Beginning with a procession, basses John Clark and John Cohen sang from the aisles the Hebrew cantillation, “Unto us a son is born...” In Gabriel’s prophecy, a 12th-century Franco-Provencal piece, the counter-tenor Ken Fitch sang a beautiful, penetrating melody: “He is coming, the bridegroom...” The section concluded with a rich instrumental 12th-century work based on a fragment of a Gregorian chant.

The second section, Waiting, began with the Gregorian plain chant Conditor alme siderum. A reading of John 1:1 followed from a 10th-century Old Saxon manuscript: “In the beginning was God, and the word was God, and the word was with God...” The section concluded with an a cappella 12th-century work, Judea et Jerusalem, which consisted of simple melodic verses coupled with verses of soft, two- to four-part polyphony.

Another procession surprised the audience in the third section, The Mother of God. Three women marched from the back of the auditorium to the accompaniment of recorder and triangle in the 12th-century French Gideonis aurea. Next came the Gregorian plainchant Ave maris stella (Hail, star of the sea, mother of God) in alternation with O Maria, deu maire, a 12th-century sacred Provencal version of the Gregorian hymn. A reading of Geoffrey Chaucer’s O moder maide followed in Old English.

After intermission, the fourth section, the Christmas Story, narrated events of Jesus’ birth through a mixture of instrumental works, choral songs, and scripture readings from Wycliffe’s Bible (circa 1380). The audience was invited to participate in a German 14th-century work that turned out to be the familiar Christmas carol, In Dulci Jubilo: “Good Christian men rejoice...”

In the last section, The Shepherds, the Camerata performed the First Shepherd’s Play, a drama that summarized the essence of the Christmas celebration and the whole evening. Three shepherds argued over a bottle of wine and verses in Virgil, and sang a drinking song. Upon drinking themselves to sleep, angels called out from the balcony, “Hark, shepherds awake...” A star appeared in the balcony in the form of a candle, and the shepherds followed it. At the sight of the Christ child, they knelt and worshipped, singing the melody of the drinking song with the words: “Hail wondrous virgin; we adore your Child.”

The evening ended with two opposing works appropriately representing the complex nature of an age of synthesis between the Christian and the pagan, the Church and the common man, instrument and voice. The first, a 14th-century English work called Hand by hand we shule us take, was a solemn, deep instrumental piece. The second, Orientis partibus, a light, vocal work, translates: “From the east appears the donkey, strong jawed and eloquent: He haw, noble sir ass!” As Joel Cohen said, “The celebration of Christmas, in the Middle Ages as today, was as colorful and complex as man himself.”

The Boston Camerata was founded in 1954 by Narcissa Williamson as a performing extension of the Collection of Musical Instruments at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. It is one of only a handful of groups performing early music in the United States. Under the direction of Joel Cohen, it has conducted several tours a year in addition to a series of concerts in New England.