THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXIII, Number 22
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, April 13, 1984

Ninth District congressional candidates addressed world hunger at last Wednesday's Open Luncheon. Here, Susan Green makes a point as D.
G. Martin, Ben Tison, Carl Horn, and Alex MacMillan (not pictured) listen.

New Bank Opens In Downtown Davidson
DAVID VAN PELT

United Carolina Bank will celebrate its grand opening on Tuesday, April 24 with a free barbecue on the village green.
Several other promotions will be offered between April 24 and early May, including door prizes, free painters caps for students,
and keys mailed to students. Those keys which open a refrigerator in the bank office will receive a package of
free steaks.

The full-service branch opened Monday at the corner of Depot and Main streets, across from the post office. The bank’s
current location is a temporary one, according to branch manager Bill Bradford. The company purchased the building directly behind the
one it now occupies, and has begun preliminary studies to determine how it will be used. Bradford estimates that in
one or two years United Carolina will have a “significant banking house here in Davidson.” But he said, “we don’t
know exactly what form it’s going to take.” United Carolina leases the building it currently occupies, with an option to
buy.

United Carolina Bank, with assets of over 2.1 billion dollars, has its headquarters in Whiteville, North Carolina, and over 90
branches in 53 communities in North Carolina. According to Bradford, 90 percent of United Carolina’s offices are located in small
communities. “One reason we feel like we’re a good match for Davidson is that United Carolina specializes in community banking,”
he said. “We're eager to serve students with their banking needs.” Bradford described United Carolina’s handiness and (continued on page
4)

Fraternities Escape Zoning Change Temporarily
By ROSS HOLT

Contrary to the expectations of a group of town residents and some town officials, a proposed deletion from the Town
of Davidson zoning ordinances will not directly affect either Phi Gamma Delta or Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternities. According to Town
Attorney Richard Kline, neither off-campus house operates under the section of the ordinances in question.

The Zoning Rules
If passed by the Town Council, the proposal will delete a section of the ordinances which allows fraternities to exist
in residential areas. It will also allow no special use permits to be granted to fraternal organizations. Special use permits
are necessary if a property's use does not conform to the use for which it is zoned. Both fraternities exist
in areas zoned for residential use.

No action contemplated would directly affect either fraternity. — Town Attorney Richard Kline

Whether the Council passes the proposal or not, however, both Fiji and SPE will face a review of their non-conforming
status by the town Board of Adjustment. The Adjustors could deny it. Should the Board discontinue the non-conforming status, under
the present ordinances the fraternities would be allowed to apply for a special use permit. If the proposal now under
consideration is passed, a vote to end the fraternities’ non-conforming status by the Adjustors would mean that each fraternity would
have a brief grace period to conform to the single-family residential zoning, or cease to use the property. Kline emphasized,
though, that the review procedure will be a separate matter entirely from the proposed deletion.from the ordinances. That action, he
said, could not be enforced retroactively. Apparently, few of those involved were aware of the fact that the deletion

Investor Plans Griffith Street Hotel
By DAVID VAN PELT

The results of a motel feasibility study look promising for a New York investor who is interested in locating such
a facility on College-owned property. According to Davidson College Business Manager Robert Currie, the investor is interested in a five-acre
site on Griffith Street next to the I-77 interchange, property the College has owned for 12 years. If the project
is developed, the College plans to lease the property on a plan not yet negotiated, he said.

The project is “the first real offer for a full-service inn that we’ve had,” Currie said. Past proposals stipulated that
the College underwrite possible losses. Davidson will not underwrite this project, or invest in it in any way. Currie did
not reveal the name of the investor except to say he is a New York businessman with investments in North
Carolina, including a company in Mooresville. He first made inquiries about the site last fall, after looking at various possible
locations in this area. In late February, the College gave the investor 90 days to complete a feasibility study of
the property and negotiate a leasing agreement for the land. The study, according to Currie, has so far indicated that
there would be sufficient occupants to make a motel feasible. Currie said he is optimistic about the preliminary findings.

Currie said a motel in the proposed location would benefit the college in two ways. First, it would provide handy
lodging and dining facilities for visitors to Davidson. Second, he said an attractive motel next to the I-77 interchange “helps
set the tone for the entrance” into the college community, “instead of a glue factory or a truck factory.” According
to Currie, the investor has agreed to several guidelines for the proposed motel. If constructed, the motel will have at
least 75 rooms, and will be a full-service inn, offering food and lodging. “I’m sure they would need all five
acres for immediate and future expansion,” he said. The corporate chain to be affiliated with the motel has yet to
be decided. “That will be partly determined by his connections, and partly by the feasibility study,” Currie said.

The investor has (Continued on page 4)

did not directly involve the fraternities until Kline brought it up at a public hearing last Tuesday, to which fraternity
representatives had been invited. “I didn’t really understand that until the meeting,” said Fiji President Marshall Johnston. “I don’t think
anybody really did,” he added. Town Mayor Nancy McCormac told The Davidsonian last month if the resolution were passed, “there
would be no question as to the continuance of the fraternities.” At the hearing, Council member and economics Professor Randy
Kincaid said he was under the impression that if the proposal passed, the fraternities’ only alternative would be to move
on campus.

(continued on page 4)

Inside This Week
‘Bluestone: Economist urges a type of planned economy. Page 3.
‘Gourmet: The gastronomic delights of the Davidson Dining Service. Page 5.
‘Relays: Cats find success in weekend events. Page 8.
‘Proposals: The BSC offers substantive proposals to help solve the race problem at Davidson. Page 11.
‘Humor: Noted musician finds solace in an Asheville newspaper. Free black armbands, too—see the Calen-.
