6. Friday, February 17, 1984 / The Davidsonian

By PEGGY PIEROTTI

Various presidents have been known to raise everything from funds to questions to families to eyebrows. Davidson’s interim president, Frontis Johnston, however, maintains this tradition of raising things in his own manner — for the past 20 years he has raised camelias. A camelia is a species of flowering shrub that originated in East Asia. Johnston himself has over 80 varieties in his private greenhouse. The flowers bloom between January and March, depending on the climate, and range in color from red to white. There are an almost infinite number of variations of these colors, but Johnston notes that “no one has completed the search for the yellow camelia.”

Although Johnston began his herbaceous hobby by raising azaleas and boxwoods, his attendance at a Charlotte camelia club show and the encouragement of other camelia growers soon led to his change. He now is a member of a Charlotte camelia club. When asked about competitions, Johnston admitted that he “had modestly competed, but only two or three times outside of Charlotte.” More enthusiastic competitors can compete every weekend during the winter.

Johnston claims that his love of plant cultivation stems from his early years at Davidson. The camelias “took me out of the office” and provided him with a reliable means of relaxation.

Unfortunately, this year the camelias have been neglected, Johnston realizes, due to his lack of time and busy schedule. This winter’s bad weather also damaged a part of the roof of the greenhouse and froze the buds. The camelias, however, are hearty bushes back in beautiful bloom.

Peggy Pierotti

— Kilms Weir Brings Hollywood

By MATT MORRIS

The Year of Living Dangerously (Australian, 1982) Directed by Peter Weir. Starring Mel Gibson, Sigourney Weaver, and Linda Hunt. Viewer’s Guide: ***1/2

The Year of Living Dangerously is a perfect title for Peter Weir’s new film. Easily his most accessible movie — and his best — Dangerously daringly grafts an old Hollywood sensibility onto a quasi-Vietnam background — mysticism, confusion, and deep-seated paranoia wander around Rick’s Café in Casablanca. This strange combination is a delight — a Clark Gable romance for smart people. Perhaps Weir has created a new genre for film historians to babble about. Like a kaleidoscope, the plot constantly shifts, jumping into sub-plots, sub-characters, each having a direct effect on everything else. Mel Gibson plays an English journalist sent to Indonesia in 1965, during the dangerous time when communists were about to remove Sukarno and his regime. The claustrophobic camera heightens the fragility of the political scene. Gibson's life is further endangered when he meets and subsequently falls in love with Governmental Girl Sigourney Weaver. Enter Old Hollywood, with sweet smiles and sweet romances. Yet as said before, this old sensibility works — where people fall in love in the rain (a particularly beautiful scene), or over a martini by a swimming pool. If anything, the warmth

An American Playmate’s Shattered Dream

By MATT MORRIS

Star 80 Produced and directed by Bob Fosse. Starring Eric Roberts, Mariel Hemingway, and Cliff Robertson. Rated R. Viewer’s Guide: ***1/2

Director Bob Fosse has once again dug deep into the junkpile of America looking for some sort of truth, and Star 80, a flesh and fantasy tale, is what he’s found. Right from the first image on the screen to the fade out, human flesh pounds, pushes, caresses, is photographed, and finally kills. The fantasy springs out of the characters much more slowly, oozing from their souls. Ultimately, these dreams of fame and fortune turn on the characters, with tragic results. Indeed, there is no real Star 80; in this film, everyone is in search of a royal throne on top of the heap. The obvious camera-eye-gun analogy is kept at a minimum — this is a movie about touching, and the desperation felt when no one is there to respond. The sad story of Playmate of the YearDorothy Stratten and her husband-manager Paul Snider is a confusing tale, overflowing with “shattered American dreams.” Just as it appeared that Stratten was to take off into films, Snider murdered her and then turned the gun on himself. Fosse believes that Snider was a slightly schizophrenic guy (in every shot of him there is a mirror — a split self) who, as much as anyone in America, wanted to make it big. His ultimate impotence towards Dorothy — his ambitions embodied — is finally corrected when he blows her head off with a shotgun. And what does that leave us? Well, on the plus side newcomer Eric Roberts (Raggedy Man) gives a mesmerizing performance as Paul Snider. Roberts plays Snider as a frustrated would-be pimp, a caricature of human ambition and loneliness. He is crazy, though, and Roberts lets us hear Snider’s craziness through his whining voice, which rises and falls like a child’s. A strange, pathetic character who is somehow hard not to like, Roberts’ Snider deserves an Academy Award. 

As Dorothy, Mariel Hemingway is less successful; she needs to explore her character’s eccentricities. Dorothy is little more than a Barbie doll and, because the audience can’t identify with her, Hemingway’s actions often make little sense. Why doesn’t Dorothy see Snider early on as the looney he is? As Stratten, Hemingway makes it tough to figure out why, but in some frustrated sense this no-acting approach works. Dorothy, like all centerfolds hanging in gasoline stations, is a non-entity, someone everyone attaches aspirations to — directors try to bottle her up in fantasy films, adolescents try to bottle her up in their sex fantasies, and Snider kills her because of his fame and fortune fantasy. 

Fosse’s “state of the art” editing technique (voice-overs, narrations, freeze-frames) is at first enticing, but by the end of the film it becomes as glittery as the California background. The final, horrifying shot of the murder, plus an oh-how-ironic voice-over of Dorothy, is unnecessary and ineffective. Yet Fosse does have a great time with the music, and the film has a nice “choreographed” look. A musical at heart, Star 80 often sounds better than it looks. A real mixed bag, Star 80 is a bloody, sometimes rich and absorbing film. Its theme is universal.

The relationship emphasizes the terror about the couple. On their first date, Gibson flees from armed soldiers in a joyfully romantic car chase. Enter Indonesian Billy Kwan, a midget ideologist who believes in Sukarno and in Gibson’s ability to report honestly the world around him. Kwan is a virtuous Yoda-like sage who dreams, and through his talents with a camera, fights for a civilized, well-fed Indonesia. With Gibson on his side, it appears that Billy Kwan can’t lose. The female Linda Hunt plays the male Billy Kwan, and she is remarkable. Kwan represents the old Indonesia, the world that believes, and his destruction halfway through the film is the greatest of tragedies. Gibson’s William Holden cynicism, paired with the visionary Hunt, makes for a great, often comedic team. 

Stepping out of the Alien world, Sigourney Weaver shows she can not only fake a British accent, she can act as well. Her character is that fun-loving teenager who never quite grows up — similar to Debra Winger in appearance and manner, she is the kind of person that can bring even tough-guy Gibson down to innocence. However, this lightness does not last — Weir’s musical soundtrack belies this. Haunting synthesizers pound a heartbeat to the romantic interludes that is both sensually hopeful and cardiac. The last half hour of the film is a bracing dose of chaos, before the final gratifying shot. (To reveal any more of the plot would spoil a great movie.) The film retains a grainy feel, at times documentary-like, adding to the realism. The Year of Living Dangerously looks as if it were made in 1965. The music pounds away to the last image, and one wonders where the next heart attack will occur. Recommended.