2 Friday, September 14, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Davidson Listed In Guide To Top Schools

(Communications) — Davidson has been named one of the top colleges in the country by “Rugg’s Recommendations on the Colleges.” Of the nation’s 1,400 four-year colleges and universities, 336 were chosen for inclusion in this volume on the basis of their high academic quality. Published every other year, the guide ranks the top schools in each of 39 different fields of study. Davidson’s chemistry, English, history, mathematics, philosophy, and religion departments were cited in the top category (“most selective”) among American colleges and universities. Rankings are based on interviews with undergraduate students at each listed institution.

The handbook was written by Frederick E. Rugg, a graduate of Brown University, who holds advanced degrees in secondary guidance and educational administration from the Massachusetts State College System. He is currently director of guidance at Hampshire Regional High School in Westhampton, MA.

Davidson will also be listed in “Opportunities,” a guidebook to the 200 schools in the U.S. and Canada that play major roles in the education of foreign students. Due for release later in September, “Opportunities” describes the admissions requirements, degrees offered, and financial aid available at included institutions.

Josh McDowell To Speak On Campus Next Friday

Christian evangelist Josh McDowell will visit Davidson next Friday. McDowell will speak from 12 Noon to 1 p.m. in an as yet unannounced location on campus. McDowell summarized his new perspective on Christianity, “You can laugh at Christianity, you can mock and ridicule it. But it works. It changes lives. If you trust Christ, start watching your attitudes and actions, because Jesus Christ is in the business of changing lives.”

Davidson Students Attend Reagan/Bush Rally

Eighty Davidson students heard Vice President George Bush speak on campaign issues and student concerns last Monday at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, N.C. The two-hour event, sponsored by N.C. Youth for Reagan/Bush, drew around 1800 students statewide. Gubernatorial candidate Jim Martin and Gene Johnston, head of the Reagan/Bush campaign in North Carolina, shared the podium with Bush. Senior Tony Holt, chairman of Davidson Youth for Reagan/Bush which sponsored the trip, was pleased with the number of Davidson participants. Among the concerns Martin and Bush addressed were jobs, affordable homes, low inflation, strong defense, and incentives for free enterprise in poverty-stricken areas.

Administration Offices Gain New Personnel

Several administrative offices on campus changed personnel over the summer. Resignations and shifts in management in the Communications, Union, and Audio Visual offices have brought new faces to those departments.

In the Communications office, the former Director of Communications John Slater has left to pursue a Ph.D. in journalism at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Presently, Communications, which publishes the Davidson Update, the college catalogue, press releases, and organizes public relations activities, is being directed by its staff until a new director is chosen. Bill Giduz is acting as a technical coordinator and Beverly Harris, assisted by Marvin Overby '83, is handling Media and Public Relations.

The Audio Visual office has seen a similar change. Former director Ruth Pittard has assumed new duties as Union Activities Director. Anderson Scott ’84 and Joyce Patch will take over as directors of Audio Visual. Scott will work as technical coordinator, and Patch will be in charge of the department's equipment that the campus uses: projectors, tape recorders, films, and the language lab facilities. Scott worked in the office as a student here. Pittard has assumed the job formerly held by Ann Parker as Coordinator of Programs for the Union. Her duties involve many of the entertainment and cultural aspects of the Union program including films andSpeakers. She considers the goal of her job to be “a resource for people who want to know,” particularly about what the Union can do. Also, Elizabeth Smiley ’84 has joined the Union staff as operations manager. She will coordinate the setup of Union events, maintenance of the building, and management of the work-study students at the Union.

Contributed by Chris Hughes

Davidson Receives Corporation Grants

IBM, U.S. Steel, and Dow Chemical Company are among the corporations which awarded grants to Davidson this summer. IBM gave Davidson $120,000 as well as $27,300 worth of computer software in support of Davidson’s New Liberal Arts Program, a series of conferences and training programs designed to integrate technology into the liberal arts curriculum here.

Davidson's Rusk Endowment for International Studies received grants from several sources. U.S. Steel pledged $100,000 toward the Endowment; The Trust Company of Georgia donated $50,000, and the Jessie Ball du Pont Religious, Charitable and Educational Fund gave $100,000. The J. Howard Pew Freedom Trust Company of Philadelphia awarded $200,000 toward initial operating costs for the International Studies Program at Davidson. This is the second major grant from the Pew trusts; it gave $200,000 in 1982 for the purchase of computer equipment.

The Dow Chemical Company Foundation of Michigan established an undergraduate scholarship in chemistry with a grant of $24,000. The merit-based scholarship provides $5,000 yearly to an outstanding high school senior majoring in chemistry.

Food Lion Signs; NAACP Boycott Cancelled

Members of the R.A.C.E. committee (Racial Attitudes Concerning Everyone), other students, and community members met here Sept. 6 with a representative of the Charlotte chapter of the NAACP to organize a boycott of the Food Lion store in Davidson. The National Committee of the NAACP decided at its national meeting this summer to boycott Food Lion because the company failed to sign a Fair Share agreement which would guarantee employment and economic opportunities for blacks.

However, the county-wide boycott was called off last Saturday at an organizational rally in Charlotte because Food Lion signed a compromise agreement Saturday morning. Junior Dana Lemon, one of seven Davidson students who went to the rally, found the rally “exciting and enlightening.” The high point of the rally came, she said, when NAACP Executive Director Benjamin Hooks announced that an agreement had been reached with Food Lion. “Everyone started screaming and rejoicing,” Lemon said. Going to the rally, she said, helped her learn more about the NAACP’s goals of achieving justice — “that was a major stressing point.”

According to NAACP officials, the compromise agreement would ensure Food Lion will:
- Increase the number of blacks in management positions from 79 to 158 by 1987.
- Hire a consultant who would develop contracts with black businesses.
- Set up a consumer advisory council.
- Do business with black-owned banks and insurance companies.
- Advertise with black-owned newspapers and radio stations.
- Meet with NAACP officials regularly to assess the progress of the Fair Share agreement’s goals.

MEM BOARDS? NGS CANDLES BASKETS DECORATIVE PAPER WRAP GREETING CARDS POTTERY ETC.

REGISTER FOR A GIFT EVERY TIME YOU COME IN IN SEPTEMBER

STATIONERY LONDON CENTER
@ SEMESTER OR YEAR PROGRAM
@ ITHACA COLLEGE CREDIT
@ BRITISH FACULTY

COURSES — British and European studies are offered in literature, history, art history, drama, music, sociology, education, psychology, communications, and politics. Special program offered in Drama. Internships available to qualified students in International Business, Social Services, Communications, and Political Science. Visits to the theatre, museums, galleries, schools, social and political institutions are an integral part of the curriculum.

For further information write:
International Programs - SP
Ithaca College
Ithaca, New York 14850