12 Friday, February 10, 1984 / The Davidsonian

OPINIONS

Ignorance About Nuclear Arms Is Dangerous
Christi Baggett

When Mike Wilkinson wrote an editorial two weeks ago asserting that we must wake up to the reality of the nuclear arms race, I planned to respond immediately with a hearty “yeah.” I gradually became reimmersed in Real Life; only a philosophical mood, peppermint schnapps, and a pertinent article in this week’s New Yorker have reinstated my Awareness. In other words, case in point. I write this article to agree with Wilkinson’s assessment of the danger of ignorance about nuclear arms and to propose that a measure of idealism may be necessary to counter the “practical considerations” that have effected the crisis.

Wilkinson accurately pointed out that one fearsome aspect of the nuclear arms race is the incredibly widespread ignorance of the issue. Personally, I came to Davidson ridiculing “no-nukes freaks.” In the past year, my knowledge of facts and philosophies about nuclear warfare has undergone an awful expansion; so, in direct relation, has my concern; I have become one of Those Fanatics. Lectures, “The War Games,” “Atomic Café,” Jonathan Schell’s The Fate of the Earth, Lewis Thomas's Late Night Thoughts on Mahler’s Ninth Symphony, Thomas Powers’s “What Is it About?” (Jan. 1984 Atlantic Monthly): such items convinced me that I ridiculed out of ignorance.

Ignorance of man’s terrible power to destroy himself is a scary thing because its product is indifference. Necessary caution results only from fearful respect, which results only from knowledge of the power’s magnitude and implications. One who doesn’t understand the mechanics of a grenade will see no danger in pulling the pin out and continuing to hold the grenade in his hands. When someone mentions the “hypothetically” potential nuclear holocaust, the imminently possible destruction of the human race and its habitat, we think or reply, “unimaginable.” Possibly — but whether or not we can imagine a nuclear holocaust, we can actually, quickly, easily, produce one. If we do not begin to learn and imagine and fear, we may experience.

If we do imagine, we can channel the energy of the anger and fear evoked by a vision of nuclear warfare (if the vision is not so watered down as “The Day After”) toward constructive thoughts about disarmament. C. G. Jung might say of our ignorance and our unwillingness to learn, “Consciousness naturally resists anything unconscious and unknown.” Actually, he did, in the first chapter of Man and His Symbols. This chapter, written in the late 1950s, also includes Jung’s diagnosis of the world: If, for a moment, we regard mankind as one individual, we see that the human race also likes to keep certain problems tucked away in separate drawers. But this is why we should give a great deal of consideration to what we are doing, for mankind is now threatened by self-created and deadly dangers that are growing beyond our control. Our world is, so to speak, dissociated like a neurotic, with the Iron Curtain marking the symbolic line of division. The Swiss psychologist continues the “world as neurotic” idea by declaring that our attempts to correct East/West division and animosity have been “singularly ineffective, and will do so as long as we try to convince ourselves and the world that it is only they (i.e., our opponents) who are wrong.”

Here many of those few who do not fall into the big “ignorance” category, or even the bigger “ignorance of ignorance” category, fall into the category of Stagnant Practicality. They choose to ignore the issue because “it is insane to expect the world to forget its knowledge of fission and fusion — to expect the two superpowers, much less all countries, to retrace so many steps.” “Expectation” is possibly unrealistic —but not necessarily. Moreover, “hope” and “expectation” are quite different mind-sets, though both may be manifested in constructive action. Hope pursues the possible; Stagnant Practicality resigns itself to the narrow actual. Most cancer patients choose to undergo chemotherapy treatments out of hope — in the chance that their disease may go into remission. Is their hopeful action “insane”? This rhetoric could be applied to any reform issue, but the issue of nuclear warfare is not just any issue — it’s possibly the last issue, the ultimate Ultimate! Is there sanity in refusing to search for alternatives to universal suicide, which is the probable eventual resolution of the nuclear arms race? In refusing to admit the existence of such alternatives? We reacted in horror to the story of Jim Jones and his cult suicide in Guyana. We thought, “Why didn’t those fools realize that they had the power to run away, to refuse to participate in a pointless, irreversible death feast?” The analogy is a fair and rather blatant one. We, like the cult members, by silently and passively “accepting our fate” — the fate of nuclear war — can seal that fate. Or we can remedy our ignorance, use our imaginations, think, protest, hope. In the angrily idealistic words of Elvis Costello, “What's so funny 'bout peace, love, and understanding?”

Baggett is a sophomore English major from Thomasville, GA.

A Two-Pronged Proposal
Lentz Ivey

There is a social problem at Davidson, a situation that involves misperception and misunderstanding. Whites see blacks as separatist, aloof, and academically deficient. Whites, from the black perspective, don’t “give a damn” about minority issues and feelings. Though these attitudes draw their genesis in hometown socio-economic environments, they nevertheless are perpetuated here. My purpose is not to illustrate how these attitudes manifest. The fact that there are only two black faculty, one black administrator, and 55 black students, none of whom hold the top leadership positions in campus organizations with the exceptions of sports teams and the Black Student Coalition, is fairly self-evident — instead, I offer a two-pronged proposal for changes.

First, blacks and whites must work together. As anyone who has worked with others toward a common objective will attest, unity of purpose develops understanding and friendship. Unfortunately, most campus organizations do not enjoy minority participation (no Blacks are members of the Union Board, and fewer than 10 are members of Patterson Court eating houses and fraternities, for example). Naturally, black participation is limited as a consequence of their numbers. Therefore, it is important that minorities choose where they wish to get involved. The Union speakers committee is a possible area for involvement because the Black Student Coalition could promote racial awareness with Union sponsorship as well as get its membership involved with other speaker-oriented projects. Likewise, the Student Government’s activities and Trustee contact committees are also participation areas. I suggest the former because more minority recruitment could be advocated and the latter because it provides direct opinion input for the Trustees. If we can work with one another in such settings, especially areas where minority issues could be discussed, then perceptions and attitudes would change.

Second, whites and blacks must be open to change and willing to work with others. This, of course, will require each of us to examine our own racial feelings and attitudes. I realize that these comments do not apply to some people, the strong and well-adjusted. But to the rest of us, I think our duty is clear — to see people as people, not as black or as white. These objectives must be achieved both within the community and the country. Indeed, the task of this proposal is to move that vision forward.

Ivey is a senior economics major from Columbia, SC.