Friday, April 20, 1984 / The Davidsonian 11

DCF Must Break Stereotype, Meet Student Needs
Charles Wiley

Davidson Christian Fellowship is dead. As an organization of Davidson College, it no longer exists, period. Why? DCF has failed
to live up to its own standards of what a Christian fellowship should be. It has failed to provide an
open, accepting atmosphere. It has not given the College a forum where students can honestly share doubts, questions, fears, joy,
and excitement. Instead, DCF has used its time and energy for intense periods of “navel-gazing,” being too concerned with itself
to notice or care for those not involved in it. Therefore, it is labeled a clique: DCF’ers.

In my four years at Davidson, I have seen the DCF stereotype broken many times, but it has only been
broken through personal interaction. The fact that the stereotype still exists tells me that people involved in DCF have not
been involved enough in campus life to break it. The Fellowship has simply not loved people. Instead, it has been
intolerant and judgmental. Moreover, DCF has bored itself to death. Christians proclaim the fact that they serve a Savior who
has risen from the dead so that they might have abundant life, yet DCF has not modeled an exciting lifestyle.
We cannot blame the campus for rejecting us when we live boring lives. In short, DCF has not represented Jesus
Christ faithfully at Davidson College this year. Therefore, it shall be no more.

Now, while I can say these things with confidence that they are true, I do not want to leave the
impression that all people involved in DCF are hypocrites. Some people have benefited from what DCF has done this year,
and many Small Group leaders have done excellent jobs and should be commended. I write simply as a spokesman of
the leadership of the Fellowship, and my remarks refer only to the slack job we, the Fellowship Coordinators, have done
this year. While some individuals have exemplified all the characteristics I have noted as lacking in DCF, DCF itself is
a failure.

Why am I writing this in The Davidsonian instead of saying it at a Large Group? Firstly, we feel we
have wronged the campus by not loving people in the way that Christ loves people. And we want you to
know that we recognize our own human shortcomings instead of hiding behind our pious exteriors. Secondly, we want you to
know that there will be a change. We plan to destroy the existing organization and begin anew on a foundation
that reflects the character of Christ. We must not only recognize our wrongs, but we must also change so that
those wrongs will not be committed again. Therefore, you will soon be hearing about a new Christian fellowship with a
new name and a new character, and you will not hear from DCF again. As part of this process, we
plan to canvass the campus, asking students what their gripes have been with DCF, and listening to them. As a
Fellowship, we want to have a total and complete conversion.

This plan sounds like a gimmick, doesn’t it? Well, if by the end of this school year you can honestly
say that the new organization is simply the same old DCF with a new name, then it will have been
a gimmick. If we fulfill the old stereotype, then we have failed again. However, if we live out the excitement
of serving Jesus Christ at Davidson, then this plan is not a gimmick. Let's see what happens.

Wiley is a senior religion major from Kernersville, NC, and was a Fellowship Coordinator with DCF.

Project ’87: Emotional Outcry Hard To Implement
Eric Hill

No single practice in history provides more evidence of the irrationality of which human beings are capable than does the
practice of racism. It is irrational because it denies the nature of man as a being of volitional consciousness, as
well as the body of scientific evidence which shows that no race is genetically or chemically predestined to be superior
to another. In fact, even if one race could be shown to be superior to another on the average, it
is still only logical to judge men as individuals, because, as Ayn Rand stated, “a genius is a genius, regardless
of the number of morons who belong to the same race.” The converse holds as well.

Those who oppose racism can have only one goal, that being to persuade people through whatever peaceful means possible that
race is irrelevant as a criterion of evaluation, and that the only rational way to judge others is on the
basis of their individual characteristics, not on the basis of their belonging to some racial group. They should urge the
perceived racists to adopt a policy of “color-blindness,” if you will.

That being said, it is apparent that the Black Student Coalition has lost whatever hope it ever had of being
considered a group opposed to racism. Their “Project ’87” as revealed in last week’s Davidsonian is a purely emotional outcry
— presented with an attitude to be expected of over-indulged twelve-year-olds —which calls for the Davidson College administration to adopt
a policy of blatant racism in admissions and faculty hiring. The article gave no reasons the BSC was proposing these
policy changes. Apparently, for BSC members, the simple fact that they want these things is reason enough for them to
be enacted. The first request is for an enrollment of 100 blacks at Davidson by 1987. There is nothing wrong
with this in and of itself. It becomes a problem when one considers how it could possibly be implemented. If
the college currently follows a “race-blind” policy and only gets 10-20 blacks per year, then there are two ways to
increase black enrollment. The first would be to encourage a larger volume of applications from qualified blacks. This is something
constructive that the BSC can do. The second would be to change to a racist admissions policy — that is,
keep out qualified students of other races to allow lesser-qualified blacks in. I will assume it is self-evident that to
undermine the quality of the Davidson student body in order to maintain racial quotas would be inimical to the interests
of Davidson College. On top of that, like all programs which call for racial quotas, it is a policy that
would only serve to increase the hostility between blacks and non-blacks, thereby further entrenching racism in our society.

The second request, for ten black professors, is even more disturbing. How long would Davidson College enjoy the type of
reputation that it does if it were to adopt a policy of using race as a criterion for employment, rather
than hiring the most highly qualified faculty that it can get its hands on? How will we have contributed to
race relations at Davidson when faculty members learn that their jobs may be in jeopardy, not because they are unqualified,
but because the administration is carrying out the BSC Affirmative Action program? I suppose BSC members consider vital questions such
as these as examples of “foot-dragging and intellectualism.” Considering the content of “Project '87" so far, it is somewhat surprising
that the BSC stopped at requesting a black Dean of Students, rather than asking for the creation of a new
office to be called the Dean of Black Students. This request falls on its face for many of the same
reasons as the first two. I can only guess that the reason behind it is the opinion that an individual's
race somehow precludes him or her from being able to deal with the problems of members of other races. Such
a claim is totally unjustified. What Davidson needs, and hopefully has, is a Dean of Students that treats the problems
of all students equally, without regard to their race.

The fourth request is for five “Black Studies” courses. First of all, I am unaware that anything that could be
considered a “White Studies” course exists at Davidson. The object of, say, a history course, is to inform the student
of relevant events and influential persons in a given period, regardless of the race of individuals involved. Because of time
constraints involved, a value judgment must be made in this and other subjects as to which are the most relevant
and the most influential events and individuals. If such a policy acts to concentrate the course content on individuals of
a particular race, it is not because other races are somehow unable to contribute influential ideas — it simply means
that they didn’t. Are we to have special courses that study events and individuals, not because they were particularly influential
or important relative to others but because they involve members of a particular race? Is the “black experience” worthy of
being taught simply because it was experienced by blacks?

The second part of this request — requiring all students to take at least one “Black Studies” course — is
a manifestation of the idea that the best way to get one’s message across is to force others to listen.
It has the effect of saying to students “You are going to learn about this whether you like it or
not.” Once again, it is an idea that, when implemented, only serves to increase race-oriented hostility.

I understand that blacks are dissatisfied with the current situation at Davidson, but the situation will never change if blacks
insist on barricading themselves inside their subsidized social club and on issuing ultimatums. Some practices of blacks on this campus,
such as that of discouraging other blacks to the point of ostracism from joining Davidson fraternities, tend to isolate blacks
from campus life, which makes their situation worse. To reiterate, racism will only be solved when people learn to judge
others on an individual basis. By isolating themselves from other students, blacks are moving the point at which they can
expect to be judged as individuals further and further into the future. Despite the frustration that blacks may feel, they
must not allow unbridled emotion to get the best of them. The proper approach to all problems is a rational,
objective, intellectual one. Let’s not let all this talk of “fire in our bones” send our brains into the deep
freeze.

Hill is a senior economics major from Fairview, PA.
