14 Friday, May 4, 1984 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Managing Editor
Kevin Horan, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager
Ross Holt, Editor
Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor
Randy Stroud, Photography Editor

Allocations

The Activities Tax Council set out this year to make up for a $3,000 deficit it incurred last year. The
ATC did so mostly through cutting student publications’ budget requests. Clearly, Hobart Park, The Davidsonian, and Quips and Cranks received
most of the burden of balancing the ATC budget and of increases granted to other student organizations.

At its meeting Tuesday, SGA Senate approved the ATC’s budget, despite complaints voiced by representatives from Hobart Park, The Davidsonian,
and Quips and Cranks. Seven of the 21 senators did not even attend the meeting. These absences were inexcusable. Of
the senators who did attend, only three actually participated in the discussion of the pros and cons of ATC allotment
to publications.

Rather than postpone its approval of the ATC budget and investigate the complaints, the SGA Senate instead took the easy
way out and approved the budget. One senator said, “this is the longest meeting we have had all year.” Another
senator observed afterward that more students had attended this meeting to voice concerns than had attended any Senate meeting during
his three years in the organization. Clearly, the ATC’s budget needed reconsideration.

The ATC cut Hobart Park’s budget in half. This will allow the only forum for student literary effort on campus
to publish but one issue next year. Although it received a $300 increase, Quips and Cranks did not even get
an inflationary increase to cover next year’s publishing costs. After paying its publisher, the yearbook will have only $85 to
meet expenses for the rest of the year. The ATC did, however, manage to dig up surplus funds somewhere which
it offered to shift to the yearbook, but only after it became aware of the Publication Board’s opposition to the
proposed budget.

The Davidsonian was cut $1,300 from the budget it received last year. Though we can “live” with the decrease, we
question the ATC’s action on several points. The Davidsonian raised 33 percent of its total budget last year — more
than any other student organization — and the ATC rewarded us with a budget cut. Yet the ATC told Quips
and Cranks to raise money on their own. Does this mean that if the yearbook does raise funds successfully, that
next year’s ATC will punish them for doing so by cutting their budget? The Davidsonian did not even request an
increase this year.

The ATC has played “editor” throughout the proceedings. In essence, the ATC has told the student body: “Davidson, you only
need a limited outlet for creative writing, because we don’t think there’s enough interest in Hobart Park. You don’t need
a quality yearbook, and you can do without an improved weekly newspaper.” The ATC has reasons for its decisions; no
organization received what it requested. Since publications make up a majority of the ATC’s budget, publications are the easiest place
to make cuts. Is it fair, however, to cut from publications $2,650 (their total budgets last year) and boost all
other organizations a total of $2,650?Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Money taken from publications went to increases for other organizations. If the ATC budget must be cut overall, then all
organizations must share the burden equally. And if the SGA Senate desires to possess the credibility it must have to
even begin to represent student opinion, then it ought to listen to its constituents. Denying approval to the ATC proposal
would not have been the end of the world. It would have allowed — or forced — the ATC to
deal with questions both it and the SGA are apparently afraid to face.

LETTERS

Fu Society

To the Editors:

In a letter to The Davidsonian several weeks ago, Mike Wilkinson indicated the need at Davidson College for a student
forum which would promote discussion of important current issues. In response to this call, the Eumenean Literary Society wishes to
make known its existence as such an organization. Though the Eumenean Society no longer abides by the formal rules of
debate, it still remains a group of individuals devoted to discussion of current issues; recent topics have included liberation theology,
drugs, and school prayer. Membership is open to all Davidson students; discussions are informal and are held on Sunday nights
at 10. All faculty and students are welcome to attend these meetings.

Next Sunday, May 6, we will be discussing possible solutions to the arms race. We hope that students and faculty
alike will take advantage of this forum as an opportunity to discuss important issues.

The Eu Society

Oversight

To the Editors:

We are concerned that The Davidsonian mishandled its reporting last week of president-elect Dr. Kuykendall’s speech. The Davidsonian’s article failed
to report the reason for Dr. Kuykendall’s visit that evening. It simply stated that Dr. Kuykendall was on campus for
the weekend. In fact, he spoke at the request of the Philanthropic Literary Society as an alumnus of the Society.
Earlier in the evening, Dr. Kuykendall had been the guest of honor at the Society’s Spring Banquet. The Society had
opened the banquet to student leaders in an effort to facilitate an easy transition next year for the president and
those students. Throughout the year, the Society sponsored student, faculty, and guest speakers. The climax of the year came a
week ago Thursday with Dr. Kuykendall’s speech. We hope the Davidsonian will report events more completely in the future.

The Philanthropic Literary Society
John Laughlin
Nancy Rosselot
Beth Maczka
Paulette Kurani

Hill's Response

To the Editors:

Due to space constraints, I will only be able to address points raised by Andrew Yor and Anne Elliott in
two areas — affirmative action and white debt to blacks. In arguing that affirmative action is not racism, Miss Elliott
defines racism as “inequity, blatant discrimination that hurts a group of people as a race and hinders them from progress
in employment, housing, education” (emphasis hers). She has based her definition on the effect of a certain type of racism,
and in doing so has lost what is the sine qua non of racism: the doctrine that an individual’s race
is a valid criterion to be used in evaluating and deciding how to deal with the person. Any individual or
any government bureaucrat who uses race as a criterion of evaluation, or allows race to influence how he chooses to
deal with an individual...

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.
