12 Friday, September 21, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Football Team Bows To Guilford Quakers

By SCOTT HUIE

It just might be a long season. Last Saturday had the makings of a perfect opener: a “pushover” opponent, probably the easiest on the schedule, creating the potential for a high-scoring blowout to impress those uninitiated freshmen and to get the home season off on the right foot. A blowout it was, 27-12, but the Wildcats were the victims rather than the perpetrators. The NAIA Guilford Quakers, from Greensboro, were the ones over on the outdoor basketball court celebrating after the game.

“It was a big disappointment,” said Coach Ed Farrell, “because we had great expectations about winning this one. But first, I must tip my hat to Guilford for playing a great game. Second, we played miserably. We spent too much time trying to avoid making mistakes rather than trying to make things happen.”

Making the big play. It was a matter of they could and we could not — a familiar story so far this season. On those crucial third down conversions, Davidson succeeded on only two of 15 tries while Guilford did so on seven of 15. Adding further to the finger-pointing was what offensive backfield Coach Gerald Carr called “too many mental breakdowns.” They came in the form of illegal procedure penalties, special team mistakes, and simply poor execution.

Lines clash in Saturday’s game

Down 17-0 in the second half, Davidson began to fight off the deficit with a pair of second half one-yard touchdown passes. The first was a strike from quarterback Jeff Haney to tight end Scotty Brendle. The second found tailback David Turner in the end zone to cut the score to 20-12 midway through the fourth quarter. But showing the poise unbeknownst to most underdogs, Guilford responded to the challenge and immediately quieted the partisan crowd of 2100. On their first play from scrimmage, the Quaker running back drew the defense to the middle, juked to the outside, and scampered down the far sideline for a 70-yard touchdown. That put the game well out of reach.

The Cats’ failure to move the ball through the air was perhaps the day’s biggest disappointment. Haney and backup QB Steve Bradley combined for only six completions in 18 passes for 55 yards. For the season, the Cats have completed only 31 percent of their passes in a new look Wing-T attack that is supposed to open up the passing game. Revamping that strategy may be necessary since the running back tandem of Turner and Horace Manor has been brilliant. Turner rushed for 87 yards on 16 carries and Manor 89 yards on 17 carries.

Defensively, credit goes to end Marcus Allen and linebacker Micah Downing who both recorded nine tackles. With last Saturday’s loss, attendance tomorrow may be bigger at Duke dorm’s roof party than in the stands, but let’s hope not. The opponent is Newberry, an NAIA school out of South Carolina. Said Farrell, “Against Newberry, we need to rebound with a strong effort.”

From The Concession Stand

Who’s (Or What’s) Best?

By STEVE BYERS

Here is a list of awards and special citations, along with assorted facts and figures, which I have dutifully compiled:That is exactly what they will provide. The Indians have a strong defense, but this one isn’t going to be a peach-pipe powwow. The Davidsonian presently has paid business and typesetting positions available. 

Player who should win the Heisman Trophy: Doug Flutie; Player who will: Bo Jackson. 

Best baseball trade rumor: Jim Rice going to the Braves next year or the year after. 

Did you know that some junior high schools in Texas redshirt football players in the seventh grade? Talk about taking your football seriously...

Best defensive player in the NFL: Lawrence Taylor; Best offensive player: Walter Payton (who does it with no offensive line).

Best example of hype and media overkill: The 1984 Summer Olympics; Honorable Mention: any Super Bowl.

Cockiest man on the face of the earth, but with good reason to be: Carl Lewis; Honorable Mention: John McEnroe.

Best athlete and funniest person at the 1984 Olympics: Daley Thompson.

Biggest mismatch of the Olympics: The U.S. Men’s and Women’s basketball teams vs. anybody.

Best fight of the summer: Hearns vs. Duran? Not even close; without a doubt, the Atlanta Braves vs. the San Diego Padres.

A possible second career for San Diego manager Dick Williams: Professional wrestling, after this quote: “I will meet Joe [Torre, Braves’ manager] anytime, anywhere, if he wants to settle this. Even in a back alley in New York.”

Q: What will an 81-81 record get you in Major League Baseball? 
A: An AL West (The Mild, Mild West) championship.

People who are finally getting their day in the sun: Chicago Cubs season ticket holders.

Trivia: Name the players who have played third base for the Braves this season (if you know the answers, you watched entirely too much TV this summer).

In the where-did-the-defense-go dept.: The Washington Redskins have given up 133 points in their last four games (ask Joe Theismann... oops, I forgot).

Trivia: Who won this year’s USFL Championship game and what was the score? (boy, you are a junkie).

In the who-is-kidding-whom dept.: The USFL’s decision to play in the fall in ’86.

Best nickname for an offensive line: The Heisman Hunters (Tennessee).

Best newcomer to pro tennis: Australian Pat Cash; Same old song: Martina defeats Chrissie (and everyone else, for that matter).

Here’s hoping Franco Harris breaks Jim Brown’s career rushing record before Payton. Why? To see 47-year-old Brown come out of retirement and call Franco a “sissie.”

Best news of the summer: Howard Cosell has quit Monday Night Football.

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT

Challenging opportunities are offered in the following areas of business management:
- Finance
- Contract Administration
- Retail Merchandising
- Food Service
- Inventory Analysis and Purchasing
- Transportation and Distribution
- Fuel Planning and Analysis
- Computer Systems
- Operations Analysis

Visit with representatives of the U.S. Navy Supply Corps to learn how your degree in accounting, economics, business administration, computer science, or engineering can prepare you for an exciting business career.

Presentation: October 2, Morrison Room, 4:00 p.m.

Interviews: October 3

Quotes of the week:
“Michael is just like me. Totally awesome.” — Clemson noseguard William Perry on younger brother Michael.
“It’s his style to give up homers.” — An Equal Opportunity Employer