Friday, April 6, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Fliers Present Non-Liberal Views
Russell Bitter and Tony Holt

Fliers and pamphlets on their own are no more than pieces of paper that serve to relate simplified opinions on
various topics. As the responses in last week’s Davidsonian suggested, pamphlets and fliers are provocative in nature and stimulate discussion
on their contents: the nuclear weapons issue, the peace movement, and Central America. The attitudes of the reader toward the
literature depend upon the individual’s pre-established views. The reader must either accept or reject the arguments, or seek alternative sources
when no conclusions can be reached.

We feel that the information presented on the aforementioned topics by the popular media and many campus activists is rarely
objective and frequently exhibits a liberal bias. With this in mind, we decided that a distribution of literature would show
that there are students who hold views alternative to those frequently expressed by campus activists. We consider ourselves individuals with
initiative, the incentive being provided by those with whom we do not concur.

Having cleared the air on the “flier-pamphlet dilemma,” we would like to address separately the contents of the two responses,
“Display of Cowardice” and “Fliers Constitute Irresponsible Distortion.” The authors of the former state: We have no “continuous dialogue with
the Soviet leaders.” Nuclear proliferation is not * and the Soviet Union is not twice as strong as the United
States. Furthermore, the fact that we have not yet annihilated ourselves does not prove that détente works. Look where détente
has left us: on the brink of terminating humanity.

This statement takes the form of a pamphlet message in that it presents opinions on the nuclear weapons issue in
simplified form. It directly addresses the content of our pamphlet. Our qualm with this statement is not that it opposes
our views, but that it distorts the message of the pamphlet and is misleading. The pamphlet stated that we have
a “continuous diplomatic dialogue with the Soviet leaders,” which is not debatable and is evinced by our embassy in Moscow
and theirs in Washington.

Next, the expensiveness argument is tenuous since nuclear weapons production consumes less than 3 percent of the total federal budget
annually (roughly 10 percent of Department of Defense outlays or 24 billion dollars). The superior effectiveness of a nuclear weapons
system versus a conventional system in preventing aggressive actions need not be expounded further. We stress, however, that the United
States spends well over one hundred billion dollars annually to maintain and man our conventional weapons systems, defense being one
of the chief purposes of the Federal government. Also, when we consider the net worth of the lives, capital, and
freedom that is protected, we conclude that the nuclear deterrent is cost-effective.

Next, our pamphlet was misquoted as saying the Soviet Union is twice as strong as the United States. Weapons strength
is difficult to measure due to the quality element, so our pamphlet relates that the Soviets have armed forces double
the “size” of the American forces. We grant our critics the benefit of the doubt and call the two forces
equal in strength. Since strength is their concern, a position of nuclear balance is exactly where we wish to remain
with the Soviets. The pamphlet does not address the issue of détente, which is non-existent today. It does call for
maintaining a balance between East and West through “a mutual, balanced reduction which depends on iron-clad treaties and provisions for
verifying compliance.”

Like our critics, we support an absolute reduction of nuclear weapons. We differ in that we perceive the attainment of
the ideal situation of a world without nuclear weapons by an approach that is more realistic in nature and does
not compromise security, a mutual balanced reduction.

We now direct our attention to the opinion letter, “Fliers Constitute Irresponsible Distortions” and congratulate the Hunter-Williams duo for their
responsible approach, which attests to their integrity! We extend an apology to you readers who support peace, which includes us,
since our flier on peace movements has been misinterpreted as insinuating your involvement with the Soviet Communist Party. However, we
stress that the inference that we are flattering the Soviets for orchestrating peace movements should not be squeezed out.

The quote in the flier is typical of the Soviet leadership mindset, as Hunter-Williams will agree. When regarding Soviet statements
referring to peace, a watchful eye can detect their curious attitude toward peace and peace groups. Two recent statements by
recognizable Soviet leaders illustrate our point. “An international peace is one which best allows the realization of the goals of
Communism,” was expressed by Communist Party Secretary Boris N. Ponomarev in 1975. “The peace of the world depends on the
military readiness and the military capabilities of the Soviet armed forces,” was uttered in 1979 by Defense Minister Dmitri Ustinov.
A shadow is cast on the legitimacy and value of the peace movement by its association with the World Peace
Council (W.P.C.).This organization, which sponsors peace movements in the West, presents a perverted view of world peace as evidenced by
the international events it chooses to condemn or condone. The condemnation of Western nuclear weapons deployment and Lech Walesa’s efforts
in Poland, and the condoning of the Soviet takeover of Afghanistan reveals the W.P.C.’s inconsistency. The W.P.C. receives aid from
the Soviet Union. It also remained silent during the Soviet installation of several hundred SS-20’s. Soviet involvement is not direct,
but it cannot be ignored. The critique of the Central American flier was less impressive. East-West relations are partially responsible
for maintaining conflicts in Central America. In this light, we support aid to Central America to help create peace and
stability, to rebuild the ruined economies and restore lost jobs, and to promote democracy and freedom. We agree that “the
continued use of military aid and intervention (alone) to resolve complex Central American conflicts is short-sighted, dangerous, and simplistic.” Instead,
we must support aid, military and especially economic, which can create the initial conditions of political stability that are necessary
for positive economic growth to occur, growth in a free society and mixed economy. We are pleased our pamphlets and
fliers have reached more students than open forums could possibly reach and that this exchange in The Davidsonian has benefitted
the awareness effort. We hope we have excited a nerve in our readers that will lead them to discuss and
attend discussions on these and other topics. Bitter is a freshman from Edna, TX, and a member of the Coalition
on Central America and Davidson College Republicans. Holt is a junior economics major from Burlington, NC, and is chairman of
College Republicans.

‘Why Are We Fighting?’
Bull Harmon

In the film Gimme Shelter, Mick Jagger of the Rolling Stones asks one of the most relevant questions of our
time: “People, why are we fighting?” The crowd shown in the film doesn’t answer Mick, and so we're left wondering
how to respond to the question. Recent political events, both on the Davidson campus and in the outside world, have
led me to wonder once again why we’re fighting. In short, election year is upon us again. I’m already tired
of the bickering, mudslinging, and distortions accompanying the campaigns of 1984, and there’s more to come. Let me describe two
current political controversies and tell why they bother me.

Here at Davidson, the questions have been raised against politically conservative pamphlets and fliers that have been distributed “anonymously.” (As
if we didn’t know who the culprit was!) The literature in question implies that today’s Western peace movements started in
Moscow, and that a nuclear freeze would be dangerous to the cause of world peace. I find a small grain
of truth in both of these claims, but I resent the way in which distortions and guilt by association are
used to promote these claims. What particularly gets me is the undocumented claim — within a pamphlet which preaches that
deterrence as a policy has been “100 percent successful” during the past 37 years — that the Soviet Union’s “armed
forces... are now more than double the size of the American forces.” This statement leaves me puzzled: How can we
deter such a mighty enemy? Oh, well. The guy who distributed the pamphlets and fliers explained to me earlier this
year that he had put up similar material — a sarcastic “endorsement” of Walter Mondale — in order to stimulate
discussion on the campus. I feel that his pamphlets and fliers have bred more resentment and polarization than rational discussion,
though. This is one reason why I find the material, which many people ignored, offensive.

My friend and I haven't fought much about his pamphlets, but let’s take a look at a case in which
things have gotten a little out of hand: the battle between Gary Hart and Walter Mondale. Recent reports have indicated
that the two former friends now dislike each other, which is a shame for both social and political reasons. The
fact that two popular, influential men with almost similar political views are fighting over, uh, politics says a lot about
our society. Perhaps the good guys should follow the Republicans’ example and obey the 11th Commandment of politics: “Thou shalt
not speak bad of a fellow party member.” But I doubt they will. So we're left with a childish fight
between two presidential candidates and a small ruckus over pamphlets and fliers. Regardless of who is at fault in these
two controversies, I find the fighting in both cases to be symptomatic of our approach to larger, more important conflicts
in the world. Stupid attacks between members of competing groups lead to resentment and fighting, which is usually less easily
stopped than started. The conclusion that can be drawn from these cases of two small conflicts seems to be obvious,
but I feel that it is frequently overlooked in our violent world: until we begin working together better, we'll continue
to ask ourselves why we're fighting.

Harmon is a junior sociology major from Houston, TX.
