Friday, April 13, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Men’s Tennis Team: Good And Bad News
By STEVE BYERS

Wednesday afternoon Davidson's men’s tennis team hosted UNCC in an exciting, and often emotional, match. Kick yourself if you missed
this one. Davidson and UNCC have become great athletic rivals, and tennis is no exception. The Cats won the match
5-4, improving their record to 9-7, and it was a nice beginning to six straight home matches for the Cats.
The home stand continues this afternoon with a match against The Citadel, and tomorrow both VMI and Western Carolina come
to town.

With the Southern Conference tournament less than two weeks away (this year at ETSU), Davidson needed a win against UNCC
to regain their confidence after a poor showing at Chapel Hill last Sunday. North Carolina swept the Cats 9-0, and
only junior John Hackett avoided being beaten in straight sets. Wednesday afternoon, Davidson took out its frustrations on the 49ers,
but not before UNCC had done some damage themselves.

Professional tennis player and Charlotte native John Sandri was even in the stands for this contest. Sandri is a close
friend of UNCC coach Karl Coombs. Freshman Hayes Dallas, who has been playing great tennis of late, won the Number
1 singles with a convincing 6-4, 6-4 victory over Alejandra Chacon. Chacon reminded me of a Spanish version of John
McEnroe—throwing his racket, losing his temper constantly, and yelling at the top of his lungs (in Spanish, thank goodness). Dallas,
Lawson, Duncan, and Ashley Rhoney were probably the top high school players in the state the past few years, and
that’s elite company. Rhoney is still in high school and is regarded as one of the top young players in
the South, while Duncan is Clemson’s new Number 1 and quickly establishing himself in the ACC. Davidson coach Jeff Frank
hauled in a big one with Dallas.

Junior Sedge Gray, who won last year’s Number 2 singles in the South Carolina tournament, is back here again this
year thanks to Dallas. Gray defeated UNCC’s Ed Caldwell on Wednesday 6-1, 7-5, despite hurting his leg after the first
set. This was an acrobatic match filled with long rallies and nice saves, but Gray was able to overcome his
injury and keep Caldwell off balance long enough to escape. If for no other reason, go to a match to
watch Gray in action. Not only does he sport a different hairstyle every week, and not only is he a
master of one-liners (many unprintable), but he is also one of the most talented and innovative players in the Conference.

What's good for the team, though, isn’t always good for the individual. Senior Mark Nottingham is probably tired of all
these youngsters coming in. Last year he had to battle it out with Gray for Number 1 singles. This year,
with Dallas’s arrival, Nottingham has been bumped to Number 3, where he does not appear to be totally comfortable. He
lost to Bill Holden Wednesday 6-2, 7-6. Davidson needs a strong performance from him the rest of the way if
they are to challenge in the tournament.

Back to good news. Even though Craig Hall lost Wednesday at Number 4, he is just a sophomore and getting
better all the time. Hackett and sophomore Bobby Nichols, playing at Number 5 and Number 6 respectively, both won against
UNCC and will be back next year. Coach Frank has been struggling to find the right doubles combinations this spring,
and UNCC exploited this by taking two of the three doubles matches.Three doubles matches, though Dallas and Gray lost in
a dramatic third set tie-breaker at Number 1. As might be expected between two fiery competitors, UNCC’s Chacon and Gray
exchanged some words (and overheads) during the match, but nothing happened. The Cats need to do well this weekend to
get some momentum for the tourney, and solving the doubles situation would help. As if Davidson is not already stocked
for next year, freshman Tripp Caldwell, from Episcopal, and Michael “Monk” Meyer, from Charlotte Latin, have been valuable additions to
the team. They're not worried about next year yet, however. This young team might gel before you think.

Women’s Tennis Vie For Division I Tournament
By STEVE BYERS

The Davidson women’s tennis team hits the road this weekend and stays on the road until April 24, when the
ladies entertain UNCC here. Until then, this team must travel to Atlanta, Boone, and Greenville, SC. This is what is
called “make or break” time, when the team will either peak just in time for the Southern Conference tournament, or
will wilt from all the traveling and tough competition.

The ladies are also entering the home stretch without senior Sue Hilton, who began the season at the Number 1
singles. Unfortunately, Hilton was forced to leave the team a few weeks ago because of medical problems. With their top
player out for the season, Davidson turned to sophomore Caroline Barclay to replace Hilton as Number 1. Though they did
lose a hard-fought match Wednesday here against NAIA power Guilford, their record is still an impressive 12-5. And even with
the loss of Hilton, the Lady Cats might have enough depth and talent to make the NCAA Division III championships
in Michigan this May.

Barclay has proven to be more than an adequate replacement at Number 1 singles. Senior Eleanor Knobloch has been a
mainstay at Number 2 all year and showed it Wednesday as she demolished Guilford’s Number 2, 6-2, 6-1. Another senior,
Adelyn Lutz, occupies the third singles position. Lutz was also victorious Wednesday, beating her opponent 6-3, 6-3. Sophomore Holly Gaston,
junior Trish Ives, and freshman Debby Podolin make up the last three singles positions, and even though they all lost
on Wednesday, each has enjoyed a good season so far.

Coach Caroline Brown has not had Coach Frank’s problem of juggling doubles combinations, and Number 1 Barclay/Knobloch won impressively over
Guilford 6-1, 6-4. The other doubles teams consist of Johnson/Ives and Podolin/Lutz. Losing to Guilford was a disappointment, but only
a temporary setback. This same team crushed Marshall last Friday 8-1, so Davidson is quite capable of winning big. These
next few weeks will tell the story, though, as the team must adjust to a new Number 1 while playing
quality programs on the road. As Knobloch said, “We're a good traveling team.” They will have to be.

Similar to the men’s team, the Lady Cats are loaded with young players, which bodes well for the future. But
meanwhile, they have to watch their step this year, because this is a finesse team, not a group of power
hitters, and most of them feel more comfortable on the baseline. If they can force their opponents to play their
own style of tennis the rest of the way, Hilton’s departure may not seem so devastating in May.

Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St.-Davidson, N.C 28036
892-7521

Order in advance—
Wine & Beer by the case
Cost plus 10%
Keg beer: Cost plus 10%
