6 Friday, April 27, 1984/The Davidsonian

Zelig Entertains, But Fails To Capture Allen’s Best
By MATT MORRIS

Woody Allen currently suffers from a mid-life crisis. Following *Manhattan*, perhaps his finest mix of Marx Brothers mayhem and neurotic indulgence, Allen’s films have begun to bear resemblance to a 45-year-old one may see stalking a Charlotte singles bar—movies that search but often do not find. *Stardust Memories*, Allen's reflection on a deeply personal emotion, fame, led to (perhaps inevitably) overwhelming and undermining narcissism. *A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy*, a pleasing but hardly involving homage to Ingmar Bergman, with a quietly understated theme of “innocence within lost innocence,” is a notion that is hopeful yet, in retrospect, overly quirky and forgettable.

Last summer Woody took perhaps his bravest experimental step in search of a new form, a complete pseudo-1940’s documentary detailing the life of a fictional metaphor of Allen himself, *Zelig*. Constructed entirely as a Movietone newsreel would be—interviews, out-of-focus shots, quick jump cuts, and fascinatingly “real” historical backgrounds, *Zelig* immediately exudes much of the naive charm ancient films have for 80’s audiences. The opening segments nicely parody *Citizen Kane*, and perhaps even *Reds*, by interspersing color interviews with documentary footage. Leonard Zelig (Woody Allen) is a “human chameleon;” a man who, through some freak of nature, can literally...

Giant Depicts Oil Conflict In Sprawling, Epic Style
By CRAIG DETWEILER

*Giant* — (1956) Starring Elizabeth Taylor, Rock Hudson, James Dean, Carroll Baker, Mercedes McCambridge, Sal Mineo, and Dennis Hopper. Directed by George Stevens. *** 1/2

Before J.R. began construction of South Fork Ranch, the Benedict family staked their claim to Texas land and its monetary benefits. George Stevens’ *Giant* blows the washed-out *Dallas* away in scope, subject, and style. With sweeping scenery, an ambitious story, and a lengthy running time, *Giant* succeeds in being a grandiose entertainment about a grandiose subject—oil and its ability to corrupt. A cast loaded with then-promising talent takes on the tough challenge of aging gracefully before the camera, and miraculously excels. Although somewhat overblown and overlong by current standards, *Giant* entertains as the epic it’s supposed to be.

*Giant* features scenes and figures of memorable scope and presence. Revolving around the struggle between the old Texas of the Benedict family and the progressive, corrupt ways of oil-baron Jett Rink, *Giant* examines oil’s challenge to traditional values and ideals. Bick and Leslie Benedict head a family raised on traditional Texas money and methods like cattle ranching. Their ornery, pensive servant Rink brings conflict into the Benedict’s steady existence when he strikes oil. In two memorable scenes, the death of Luz Benedict after a riding accident contrasts with Jett’s jubilant discovery of oil on his land. The death of the old, represented by Luz, prepares the way for the insertion of the new. After several hours of soap operish struggles within the Benedict clan, Bick sparks a reassertion of the traditional Texas values. Rink’s meteoric rise to fame and power eventually crumbles under his corrupt nature. By the conclusion, a refutation of prejudice against Mexicans has been reinstated.

If filmed today, *Giant* would be presented as a padded, ten-hour miniseries produced for television. As it exists, *Giant* functions as the bold, weighty entertainment that filmmakers seem incapable of creating today. At over three hours, it requires much attention, patience, and endurance from the viewer, but fulfills what it promises. While not great, revelatory art, Stevens’ movie provides sweeping entertainment, colorful performances, and true Texas flavor. Sets, costumes, and dialogue demonstrate no traces of subtlety, only broad spectacle. It is an epic, made to be enjoyed without commercial interruption. Only on the big screen can one view *Giant* in its natural, intended form. While the ambition of the film tends to overwhelm it, the...Performers are up to the larger-than-life roles they’re forced to create. As Bick Benedick, Rock Hudson admirably embodies the swaggering, firm family leader necessary for the role. Elizabeth Taylor complements him well as Leslie, adding spunk and class to their home. In the most ambitious and final role of his career, James Dean portrays the unstable Jett Rink. He reveals his substantial acting potential when forced to shift from low-life ranch hand to corporate chairman. Dean’s creation of the self-destructive Rink careens close to parody, but fortunately remains pitiable and sympathetic throughout the picture. Special notice in the star-laden cast also goes to Jane Withers for her portrayal of a snooty, Southern socialite named Vashti Snythe. With broad performances, a sprawling setting, and Texan pageantry, Giant offers the solid, moving entertainment of epics from the good ole days. In an age of bland, cardboard soap operas like Dallas, Giant arrives at Davidson as a re-

change into different people, different races even. As the narrator intones, “Leonard was hated by the KKK and the Nazis because at points in his life he was both Jewish and Negro at the same time.” Zelig’s supernatural ability leads to inevitable “comedy of errors” complications — he is mistaken for a Big Band leader, a Nazi soldier, and so on, and on the simple level of sight, the film is a masterpiece. Not only are Zelig’s frequent spontaneous transformations captured with technical skill, but through cinematographer Gordon Willis’ lens, the “old” footage looks perfectly antique with scratches on the emulsion and much overexposed, and undercranked film. Yet special effects, no matter how convincing, do not a movie make. Zelig’s first 30 minutes of flashback nostalgia fascinate, but the trick becomes old and the movie falls apart. The mock-up newsreel footage, in fact, eventually controls the entire spirit of the film and the characterizations develop as two-dimensionally as the pragmatic narrator would have his audience believe. Where in this “sideshow” film is the old Woody Allen wit, pathos, and insight? Indeed one may ask where Woody himself is —

through May 31, 1984. © 1983. Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.

ORANGE JUICE $1.29

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours at participating Hardee’s.

in Zelig his performance remains surprisingly minimal, and so, ultimately, does the power of the film. No doubt newcomers to the wild world of Woody Allen will find the movie entertaining; even bad Woody always retains a certain quota of gags that outdistances most comedies. And perhaps this critic’s viewpoint is biased somewhat by a love for the 70’s Woody Allen. Yet one can’t help wondering where Woody’s at times profound narrative and expressive emotions went. And the morale, the big “message,” is so damned simplistic. In the loving arms of psychiatrist Mia Farrow, who has flowered into an appealing screen presence under Woody’s aegis, Zelig reveals to the audience that the true goal in life is to be one’s own person. The End. It has been said that Woody Allen’s current aesthetic is to create great “little movies,” but a film still costs four dollars, no matter its thematic intent. With Zelig the viewer is forced to watch a middle-aged comedian deal with personal dissonance and provide ever-so elementary resolutions. Surely the Woody Allen of, say, 1976 wouldn’t approve of that.

SOFT DRINK $1.78

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants through May 31, 1984. © 1983. Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.