Wednesday, December 12, 1984 / The Davidsonian 3

SPE Move To Court Faces PCC
By ROSS HOLT

The Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity’s proposal for moving on campus has run into opposition from the Patterson Court Council (PCC). At a Nov. 28 meeting of the Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL), PCC President Murray Simpson read a statement that set up criteria under which the PCC would approve a SPE return to Patterson Court.

SPE had asked the CCRL to be allowed to return to campus, operating a court house as a social facility only. Fraternity members would continue to eat at the Commons. Though SPE has agreed to accept self-selection and to operate under the Patterson Court system, the proposed eating arrangement drew fire from the PCC.

Simpson said in his statement that permitting SPE to exist on the court without operating as an eating house “skews the nature of the court.” He said problems include whether houses will be made available to other groups for social uses only, the threat of Patterson Court becoming a “fraternity row” which simply offers social activities, whether or not financially unstable eating houses could resort to social affiliation to stay afloat, and potential moral encouragement difficulties given that fraternity members would eat with freshmen.

Opposition
SPE president Steve MacMillan charged that the PCC and student members of the CCRL had serious conflicts of interest in the matter. “Opposition is coming from people who have vested interests,” he said. “Everybody’s worrying about us draining from the rest of the court,” he added.

MacMillan said SPE was simply offering students another alternative. “Two houses are sitting empty on Patterson Court. We are offering to put one to use,” he said. “We are offering another option to the students and the court,” he added.

Simpson said the PCC wants to maintain the “unity and equitable balance of houses on the court.” He said the only way to continue that balance with SPE on the court would be if the fraternity operated an eating house.

Dean of Students Will Terry, who chairs the CCRL, said the Nov. 28 meeting served to open discussion on the issue. Terry said the proposed move has implications for the future of Patterson Court whether or not those implications are good or bad. “I think that’s what we’re really trying to find out, if that’s a step we want to take,” he added.

SPE proposed returning to Patterson Court after the town Board of Adjusters denied the fraternity special use zoning of its house at 409 N. Main Street last May.

Vespers Service. Choir members process into DCPC for Sunday night’s Christmas

Sentelle Dorm Hall Warned On Drug Use
By TED WILSON

At the beginning of December, Housing Director Bill Bolding sent a letter to all residents of first floor Sentelle, stating “I have been receiving complaints about the use of pot [marijuana] on this floor from other students.” He also wrote, “The presence of pot on this hall has become so widely recognized that, in line with College policy, I feel some intervention is necessary.”

Bolding required the members of the hall to attend a meeting on Dec. 4 with Drug Counselor Campbell Peery. No other administrators or students were permitted to attend, and students absent were required to see Peery privately and pay for the visit, according to sophomore Greg Smouse. Bolding said the meeting “was not aimed at discipline. [It] was trying to get some good info. out to people.”

Bolding said he sent the letter because “people have been coming up to me complaining about pot. I have no specific names [of users] nor do I want names.” He said the new drug policy mandates that the school’s first intervention in a case like this is for the student(s) to meet with the drug counselor. “Then if we have problems, we take it to the Dean of Student’s office.” He stressed that the meeting with Peery “was a means to intervene giving everyone the benefit of the doubt.”

Bolding added, “the intervention is not to say that everyone on the hall does drugs.” He said “they [students] know that any time we respond (to an individual or a hall) to situations that are illegal, you have been warned that we are aware of the situation and if it comes up again, we’re going to take further action.”

Bolding emphasized the school is trying to build “helping relationships to put out some good, reliable information. They [students] need to be aware of the situation.”

Peery said, neither denying nor confirming he met with the hall, his service to the school is “not to search out drugs and alcohol but to provide...a service to those who are addicted, are having a problem, or are living an abusive lifestyle.” He would not comment specifically on anything pertaining to Bolding’s letter to first Sentelle. Smouse said Peery “seemed sincere; he came across as straightforward. He said, ‘whether there is a problem or not, you guys are going to have to live with it.’” Smouse said “Peery was a go-between (for) the administration and students. He said he was there in our interest.”

One student who chose not to attend the meeting said “a meeting should not be made mandatory for those who do not use drugs.” Smouse said, of the letter, “Most guys think there is not a problem, but if there is one, it’s not a hall problem, but one regarding a few select individuals.” Smouse said, “It's a loud, boisterous hall; if they want to give us a hard time because we’re loud, that’s O.K., because we are; but to blame hall behavior on drugs other than alcohol is silly and makes for a very convenient excuse on the administrator’s part.” He said, “many members of the hall said the college is using first Sentelle as an example to prove that it isn’t going to tolerate excessive drug use at Davidson — which is bogus because if there is a drug problem on this hall there is a drug problem on almost every hall at Davidson.”

While one student said “there are probably a few more people on this hall who use drugs,” another resident said he “did not know” about how much drug use there was “but it certainly is not in the amounts to warrant whatever happened.” Bolding said “there are some quantitative differences” between first Sentelle and other halls. There have been more damages, more complaints pertaining to that hall and more requests for people to move that come to our attention. It’s not a situation we have on all halls.”

Peery said of the College's role, “If the administration wanted to be punitive they wouldn’t provide me but would use student vice officers. The administration by the act of having me here is aware that it [the drug problem] is a national reality.” He said Davidson is providing a way for those who can’t deal with their drug problem.

P.E. Failures May Appear On Transcripts
By LISA THOMAS

“We're trying to put some credibility back into what we want to do in meeting the P.E. requirement,” Director of Physical Education Sterling Martin said about the practice of recording failed P.E. courses on students’ permanent records. Last spring term, a policy was implemented whereby P.E. instructors turn in grade sheets, with grades given on a pass-fail basis. All P.E. grades are recorded on the student’s permanent record and on the grade reports received by parents and students, but only those courses which the student passed appear on transcripts sent from the Registrar’s office.

Registrar Richard Burts said the change was prompted by a suggestion from Vice-President of Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty T.C. Price Zimmermann that the College's increased computer capacity could be used more extensively in P.E. registration and grading. Currently, the Registrar's office registers students for P.E. courses and then gives class rosters to the department. Unless P.E. courses are dropped through the Registrar’s office, students who do not attend the required number of classes receive failing grades on their records and grade reports.

Martin said many students sign up for several P.E. classes in order to secure a place in at least one of them. This “over-subscription” excludes interested students while some who are enrolled have no intention of attending, he said. Last spring’s changes made a lot of people nervous, Martin said. “I think the message has now gotten about.” Burts said he received a lot of calls over the summer from students questioning the failing grades. According to Martin, “the only way to communicate to the students is through their grade reports.” Martin said since physical education classes are non-credit courses they elicit a casual attitude on the part of students. He also attributed some of the confusion to a lack of communication between the administration, the students, and the Physical Education department. Martin added that “a casual attitude does not excuse negligence.”

An additional change currently under consideration is the inclusion of failed P.E. courses on student transcripts as well as on permanent records. Burts said “in order to be even-handed with the P.E. department, all physical education requirements should appear on the transcript. You cannot fail a French class and choose not to have it appear on your transcript.”