6 Friday, October 19, 1984 / The Davidsonian

A Look At Some Periodicals You May Have Missed

After dodging the pigeon effulgence now clouding the library entrance (who imported those pigeons, anyway?), I recently found myself in
a new and, I suspect, rarely exploited section of the library: current periodicals. Holy cow! What a surprise was in
store for me. The Library’s periodicals put the Union’s to shame. For one thing, we recognize the titles of the
onion-ring-covered globs in the Union. Time. Life. Consumer Reports (a personal favorite). People (the one you're always apologizing for reading).
These are not difficult words. Enter the current periodicals section, though, and you enter a parallel universe of publications. Something
alien is going on. A few titles will explain what I mean. Monthly Weather Review. Triathlon. Water Skier. World Water
Skiing. Spray’s Water Ski. School Product News. Herpetologica. Recent Herpetological Literature. Herpetological Review (recent article: “How to Get Blood from
a Turtle”). Then there are the strange titles: integrateducation, for example. At first, I thought this was like conjugation. It’s
not; they just left out some capitals and spaces. It’s symbolic. Don’t forget QST Devoted Entirely to Amateur Radio. Or
Thrust, a magazine from the Association of California School Administrators. Try finding Southeastern Librarian in the Union (recent article: “Burnout:
A Problem for Library Managers”). Or Southeastern Geographer (“Temperature Variability in Georgia in Recent Years”). Or Personnel Journal, “the magazine
for professionals who manage people.” Whatever you do, don’t confuse Tar Heel Libertarian with Tar Heel Libraries. Or Tar River
Poetry for that matter. All parties are probably sensitive about their names. The point is clear. If you want a
quick trip to Venus, go to the current periodicals section.

B. P.ing as P. E. Credit

Davidson's social whirl is just that; careful planning can result in at least two receptions a week — maybe a
dinner if you join some committee. Being aware of the endless benefits awaiting the shrewd social climber, I tried my
hand at a bit of B. P. (Beautiful People, bien sûr) party hopping this week. I left the experience a
changed woman. OK, so it was only the Artists Series reception after Wednesday night’s performance. I thought it was pretty
shrewd of me to waste no time on the actual performance and appear only afterward when the

Don’t Forget:
By TIM WAPLES

Once upon a time, professional football was “fought in the trenches,” scores were low, and the Chicago Bears were a
perennial powerhouse. However, in an unnecessary effort to make the game “more exciting,” rule changes were incorporated to make pro-football
higher scoring. To an extent, these changes have become associated with commissioner Pete Rozelle, who has not become a favorite
of football traditionalists. From a glance at last week's College Bowl matches, one would guess that the Rozelle trend is
continuing in the College Union. Four of Monday's nine winning teams scored well over 200 points, with the precious First
Yeast Belch squad racking up 355 and the Buzz Aldrins setting a single-game intramural scoring record with an astounding 460
points. Craig Detweiler sparked Buzz's record performance with help from teammates Jeff McEwen, Joe Park, and Dan Murrey. Unofficial sources
suggest that the secret behind Detweiler’s success is his refusal to eat vegetables on game days. Apparently, Craig has different
ideas about where to draw the line on personal competitiveness. Whatever the reason for their success, Buzz rolled over a
very subdued Controlled Substance squad, setting themselves as the team to beat in their division, the American League East.After a
first-game stumble against The Wrong Stuff, First Yeast Belch blasted newcomers King Cobra and rolled to a big win, primarily
on the shoulders of the Mark Chen-Keith Finch duo. The two are eager to take on a role as giant
killers. If they can get by See Rock City this week, they can begin looking down the road to a
big match with Get Out of the Way. With all these big scores posted, one might think that the days
of close, physical, College Bowl battles are over. But just as the Bears are making a resurgence in the NFL,
those classic confrontations still take place in the Union. Section Eight, one of the preseason favorites and backed by the
largest cheering section on the circuit, survived such a battle with Stairway to Heaven by a 160-135 count. A clutch
toss-up and bonus in the last minute of the game iced the victory for the Fijis in a game that
tested even veteran Marshall Johnston's nerves of steel. An up-and-coming team of juniors named Relentless Picnic staved off a late
charge from the Thundering Amoebae to win by a scant 55 points. The margin of difference may well have been
found in the picnic basket of Peggy “Picnic” Pierotti, who attributes her success to a well-stocked supply of Ritz Crackers.
As always, the Union excitement, close competition, and offbeat antics that define College Bowl intramurals are waiting for you as
a player or spectator every Monday night.

I-77 at Hwy 73 Cornelius/Lake Norman 137 N. Main St. Davidson 892-7815 892-7805

The Davidsonian Photography Contest Deadline Is This Sunday.

Hawaiian Punch and chocolate chips were flowing. Chic. Not chic was the answer I gave Phil Meyer, a member of
The Acting Company, when he asked me what I thought of the play with the three ladies with big heads
on. The chic would have said, “Play? What play? Oh — this is a reception?” Try telling Phil you are
there for the food. “Very interesting,” was my response. After that, things degenerated. Remark overheard: “They were hardly even... human!
They must have had extraordinary make-up!” And, “Frat parties are my life. I was president of Phi Eta Sigma.” It
hit a nadir when I heard, “Do you understand what the plays mean?” There must be a B. P. Quarterly
somewhere. I could sure use the help. “But Judge Wapner...” Now that this week’s session of “The People’s Court” has
adjourned, where is commentator Doug Llewelyn? Are we to get commentary on this week’s honor trial?

Outraged Fury and Indignation

A week has passed and still no answers. This columnist will not rest until some answers spew forth from the
Communications Department about the Directory cover. I look at Anderson Scott and Steve Soud daily and still don’t know why
they gaze out at us. Chances are, they don’t know why either. What is going on here?

Next week: An Adventure

BUFFET —ALL YOU CAN EAT—

Mooresville’s First And Finest Italian Restaurant

KING Of PIZZA

Tues., Wed. & Thurs. 5 P.M. til 9 P.M. 241 SOUTH BROAD STREET—MOORESVILLE—663-3030

Meal Includes:
SPAGHETTI 100% Durham Wheat
OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE
FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD
PARMESAN—ROMANO CHEESE
SALAD BAR 45 Items
FRESH GREEN VEGETABLES
DELICIOUS FRUITS
FLAVORFUL MEATS
RICH DRESSINGS
TASTY CHEESES
WINE CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE
PIZZA Still Mooresville’s Finest
SPICY PEPPERONI
CANADIAN BACON
ITALIAN SAUSAGE
CHOICE BEEF
FRESHLY DICED GREEN PEPPERS
SWEET ONIONS
SOUP OF THE DAY
CREAM OF POTATO
VEGETABLE BEEF STOCK
CHICKEN NOODLE
DESSERT-TEMPTING HAWAIIAN SALAD

ALL FOR $8.89 PER PERSON
SPECIAL RATES FOR CHILDREN UNDER 12

Lunch Buffet—Mon.-Sat., 11 AM-2:30 PM $2.99
