Wednesday, December 12, 1984 / The Davidsonian 11

OPINIONS

A European Perspective Of American Politics
Duncan Fraser
November 11, 1984
Paris, France

From my perspective as a Davidson student living in Paris, I viewed the recent U.S. election from outside the country and learned not only much about France, but also much about my own country as I “looked in on America.” According to the French view of the election, there were only two real issues: the economy and East-West relations, in that order. The French see an economically strong America, credit Reagan, and hope that prosperity will come to their country too. Further, they are concerned about the growing U.S. budget deficit. As for East-West relations, the French blame the Soviets for the breakdown in Arms Control negotiations, but hope that talks will resume shortly.

Reagan is an enigma to the French, as they have difficulty understanding his style, which differs sharply from that of most European leaders. But in the past four years they have grown to like and admire him. They believe he has vindicated the American electoral process, which many French thought had failed when it elected Carter and forced Nixon to resign over Watergate. While I am sure that I, as an American citizen, did not view the election through “French eyes,” I did sense that perhaps the French saw it as a process greater than it was. To understand the French view, it is necessary to understand the current economic and political situation in France.

1984 has been a more difficult year for France than for the United States. Our economy has strengthened and the Olympic Games in Los Angeles fueled a strong feeling of pride, as America began to feel good again. After Vietnam, Watergate, stagflation, and Iran, America was finally coming up for air. It feels good, at last, to be a patriotic American.

This morning I watched as French President François Mitterrand placed a wreath under the Arc de Triomphe at the tomb of France’s Unknown Soldier. Today is Armistice Day and all along the Champs-Élysées people crowded to see the parade. They too were trying to be patriotic, but that is difficult when times are as tough as they are in France. Mitterrand’s rating in the polls has dropped 5 percent and is now 24 percent; unemployment is high and the French franc is low; and the foreign trade deficit has been so high that until recently French citizens could take only $150 out of the country each year, virtually prohibiting foreign travel. Finally, there are impôts (taxes) on almost everything imaginable and grèves (strikes) are a definite part of French life. If this were not enough, France’s experiment in socialism will be confronted in 1986 with having to hold legislative elections, which the right is sure to win. Thus, a socialist president could be forced to name a conservative government — a co-existence which is unknown in French politics and is seen as a possible constitutional crisis.

Last Tuesday, Election Day, I had dinner with a fellow student from L’Institut d’Études Politiques, a school which trains future French political leaders. Afterwards, we walked by the famous Harry’s N.Y. American Bar and saw a huge crowd outside awaiting election results; most of them were young French people and many were expressing their support of Reagan. As we walked on, I asked my friend why the French were so intrigued by the U.S. election. His answer was that the French quietly realize that America is the engine of the Western World. “But more than that,” he continued, “America reassures the world that democracy can work. French politics cannot compare — look at our money,” he said. “We can’t even find one statesman to put on our money. Instead, we have Delacroix on the 100 franc note and Julius Caesar on the 200! Most French people wouldn’t admit it, but I think we are admiring, and perhaps a little envious, of America. In the past 200 years, you have had one constitution and around 40 presidents. We, on the other hand, have had two monarchies, two empires, one complete occupation by Germany, and five republics! Mitterrand is the fourth president of the Fifth Republic and we aren't even sure whether our next will be the fifth of the Fifth or the first of the Sixth! It’s crazy!”

Well, the next morning I heard the news on the radio: Reagan had won by a landslide. A liberal newspaper, Libération, asked “Why Reagan?” while the conservative Le Figaro called him “a TRUE President,” in a not-so-subtle poke at Mitterrand. The result was no surprise, of course, but all day Wednesday people talked of the election and the margin of Reagan’s win — a margin more than twice Mitterrand’s approval rating. For while the French may not completely understand our electoral system, they knew enough of this foreign, American election to have an opinion. That made me wonder how many Americans, much less students at Davidson, could name the top three probable contenders in the next French presidential election, or even name the year in which it will be held.

Americans’ lack of knowledge on current world affairs was the most startling thing that I learned from living in France during the election. While we have a good base in world history and know of the really major events (assassinations, wars, etc.), we really seem to miss everything in between. This is a problem which America must solve if it is going to be competitive in theWorld of the 21st century. Davidson graduates, who go on to such diverse fields as medicine, politics, and business, must begin to think in terms of a world community. Our country’s size and isolated location make this difficult, but still, there are ways to gain this global outlook. First, a reading (cover-to-cover) of an international magazine (such as Time) each week is one of the best ways to gain a working knowledge of the world. This is a step that can be taken individually and one that provides a sufficient, broad knowledge of the world. Second, Americans should place a greater emphasis on learning second languages well enough to carry on everyday conversations. I am constantly amazed by how many languages Europeans speak fluently; most of France’s top students speak French, English, and usually German. While we are fortunate to have the most international language as our native tongue, we are often seen as lazy by the rest of the world for not learning others. I have noticed how much French people appreciate my speaking French, even when they can speak English or when I am talking with another American. This same appreciation in more important situations just might be what is needed to reach a business or political agreement. Finally, Americans should try to live in, or at least try to visit, a non-English speaking country and attempt to communicate with its residents. This is the best way to gain a true world perspective and to get the most out of foreign travel. This is living in another country and culture, NOT sightseeing, and NOT taking an exotic field trip. The Junior Year Abroad programs and Davidson’s other study abroad programs provide good opportunities for this interaction, but one must take the initiative to meet the country's residents. Whatever the means, solutions must be found, as this lack of a global perspective threatens America’s future position in the world community. Further, the situation becomes more urgent as distances shrink and more of our problems are international in scope. Davidson graduates must have this global awareness. The Rusk Program in International Studies is a good start, but until Davidson College as a whole can look beyond her bucolic surroundings and sense this urgency, it is doubtful that many of its graduates can or will attain a true global perspective. Fraser is a junior from Atlanta, GA. He is JYA in France this year.

Both Anne Lambert and Dee Reynolds had campaigned all week and had even distributed fliers door to door on campus when they learned of the change late Monday evening. Obviously, the SGA has made several mistakes in its handling of elections this year. Rob Vaughn and other would-be candidates did raise a relevant complaint. However, the SGA’s ridiculously sloppy handling of the elections injured an organization that had complied with the election procedures — in particular with regard to the publicity of sign-ups. As members of the Y-SSC, we must respectfully request a formal apology from those elected representatives responsible for these acts of gross negligence.

Chris Blake
Beth Maczka
Rusk Program

To the Editors:

Through The Davidsonian, I would like to speak to every Davidson student: You have perhaps heard that I have been named director of the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies at Davidson. I believe this program bears the great promise of bringing the world into every Davidson student’s education. My hope is that each student will share my belief in the importance of the program, and will take part in it. Right now we are in the formative stage. There is a lot of international education going on at Davidson, and that is our foundation on which to build. During the next few months, we will be assessing current international studies and planning specifically what the Dean Rusk Program will be. In that effort, no one’s views are so important as yours, the student’s. I want to invite you to think about international education at Davidson and give me your thoughts. All ideas are welcome, and if you wish your views will be kept in confidence. I am particularly interested in knowing what aspect of international education you believe would enhance your own education and your career plans or prospects. Please write to me (directly at The Citadel, Charleston, S.C., 29409, or via the Center for Special Studies); leave word at the Center if you wish to see me on my next visit to campus; or speak to one of the members of the Dean Rusk Program Student Advisory Committee (Kathy Bray, Sally Howell, Julie Sternal, Mike Wilkinson, Mark Sandy, Marvin Overby). I will hope to hear from you. And I look forward most eagerly to being on campus and working directly with you beginning next summer.

Jack Perry

The Davidsonian “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions articles on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community. We adhere to these guidelines:
1) We require that all articles be in our hands at 7 p.m. Monday.
2) We accept typed articles and those written legibly, double-spaced.
3) We require that opinions be signed. We will print unsigned articles only if a compelling reason exists for withholding the author's name, and the author is known to either the editor or executive editor.
4) We will not edit opinions for style or content but we reserve the right to edit for rules of common English. We will inform the author of substantial changes.
5) Since space for Opinions articles is limited, we reserve the right to select articles from those we receive for publication. We will attempt to print any article we withhold from publication for space reasons the next week.