2 Friday, October 5, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Clark Ross To Appear On “University Forum”

Clark G. Ross, economics professor and chairman of the economics department, will appear on “University Forum” on WSOC-TV (Channel 9) at 7 a.m. Sunday, Oct. 7. Ross, who has been active in developing strategies to increase food production in West Africa, will appear on the show with the Rev. Phillip Grigsby, a Presbyterian minister who is active in both local and world hunger issues; and Ann de Lattre, director of the Club Du Sahel, the part of the Paris-based Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) which coordinates donor activity in the Sahel portion of West Africa.

Involved with West African development for eight years, Ross holds his Ph.D. degree in economics from Boston College. As a consultant with the Agency for International Development, the Organization for the Development of the Gambia River Basin, and the OECD, Ross has utilized economic modeling and computer programming to assist in developing plans for the region’s agricultural development.

“African countries are increasingly willing to face their food problems,” Ross said. “If more widespread famine is to be averted, food prices must be made more attractive to farmers, aid must be increased, existing aid must be reallocated toward actual food production, and coordination of donor organizations must be improved.”

Homecoming Weekend

Davidson’s Homecoming Weekend will be held today and tomorrow and will feature the installation of John W. Kuykendall as the school’s 15th president. The weekend's events feature reunions of the College’s Young Alumni (Classes 1979-84), Avant Garde (pre-1934 graduates), and former varsity baseball players.

Today, receptions will be held for the Class of 1979 and baseball alumni at 6 p.m. and 7 p.m., respectively. Tomorrow, morning receptions will be held for the Avant Garde and Young Alumni classes. In addition, an alumni baseball game and a demonstration by the current varsity baseball squad will be held on the baseball field.

After a noon luncheon in the Vail Commons, the Homecoming football game, pitting Davidson against The Citadel, will be played at 2 p.m. on Richardson Field. Following post-game receptions held at Patterson Court fraternities and eating houses, the Class of 1979 will hold its fifth reunion banquet in Chambers Art Gallery.

Homecoming activities will conclude with a dance, featuring the band “Taste,” at 9:30 p.m. in the Vail Commons. For more information concerning the Homecoming events, contact the Alumni Office.

Livingston Taylor To Sing In Love Auditorium

Livingston Taylor, a well-known pop-folk guitarist and singer, will perform at 8:15 p.m. next Wednesday in Love Auditorium. Taylor and his brother James, who is a nationally-known folk singer, both hail from Chapel Hill, N.C. Livingston Taylor has recorded six albums and is probably best known for his hit single “First Time Love.” Host of the nationally syndicated television show “This Week’s Music,” Taylor currently resides in Boston, Mass. He will be making his third appearance at Davidson.

The Greg Greenway Band, which plays pop and top-40 tunes, will be the opening act. The concert is sponsored by the Concert Committee of the Union. Tickets for the performance cost $5. They may be purchased at the door and from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, at the ticket office on the first floor of the Union.

New Dorm Named

The Board of Trustees yesterday named the new dorm in honor of Dr. John Acres ’28, former Chairman of the Alumni Association and Living Endowment Fund. Acres is also the past decade Chairman of the Davidson classes of the 1920s, and has received an honorary degree from the College.

NEWS SUMMARY

New Professors Join Davidson Faculty

Having served for short periods of time at various locations throughout the world, Lieutenant ColonelJames Bachman has found a place he can call home: for three years. During his first month at Davidson, Bachman says he has been heartily welcomed into the community. “I’ve been very impressed with the students and the faculty. I can’t say enough about it. I feel like I’ve been here all my life.” Bachman is the head of the Davidson area ROTC detachment, which, in addition to the 50 Wildcat cadets, includes programs at UNC-Charlotte, Catawba, Livingston, Winthrop, and Johnson C. Smith. This is Bachman’s first assignment in the ROTC program. He said he finds the role of helping to shape the future of the army challenging and rewarding. “My prime objective is to produce quality lieutenants in the number and with the academic skills required by the total Army,” he said.

As a professor of military science, Bachman is qualified to teach all of the department’s courses. Currently, he is teaching a sub-course in ethics in addition to guiding the program and designing the curriculum. Bachman received his B.S. in mechanical engineering from Purdue and his M.S. in industrial engineering from Kansas State. He has served abroad intermittently in Europe and Vietnam. In the U.S., he held posts at Fort Sill, Ok., Fort Leavenworth, Ka., and the Pentagon. He was trained recently at Fort Benjamin Harrison in Indianapolis, In. to be a professor of military science. In his spare time, Bachman enjoys outdoor activities such as hunting, boating, fishing, and skiing. He and his wife Alice hope to be free more often on weekends so they can attend church regularly and watch football, especially Davidson’s home games.

Professor Jim Hollifield

Professor of Political Science Jim Hollifield will spend one term at Davidson before finishing the school year at Duke. He will then look for a permanent teaching position. Hollifield is teaching Western European Politics, Comparative Politics, and French Political Science. He has and will again instruct similar courses at Duke, where he finds there is a more intense academic atmosphere than at Davidson. “The students here are a little less concerned with career goals. There’s less of an emphasis on a specialized pre-professional curriculum,” he said.

Hollifield studied at Duke, where he will receive his Ph.D. in December. He wrote his dissertation on immigration and manpower policy in Western Europe. He received a B.A. in Political Science and the Romance Languages from Wake Forest University, and at Grenoble, Hollifield earned the French equivalents of a B.A. and M.A. in Political Science. He also studied applied economics at the Institute of Political Studies in Paris. His interests include comparative public politics and foreign languages. In addition to speaking fluent French and English, Hollifield knows some Spanish and Russian. He hopes to begin learning German soon. His favorite leisure activities are playing handball, horseback riding, and cross-country skiing. He said, “I consider myself somewhere between a jogger and a runner.”

Contributed By Chris Fisher

Quips And Cranks To Offer Senior Candids

Due to cuts in funding, the number of pages in the yearbook has been decreased this year, resulting in smaller sections. Because of limited space in the senior section, the Quips and Cranks staff asks seniors to pose in groups of two or more for candids. In the past, each senior had the opportunity to submit an individual candid photo. Photos should be submitted to the Quips and Cranks office or the Union Desk by Oct. 31. A yearbook photographer is available to take photos. Contact Kathy Gratto (-6308), Nancy Rosselot (-5718), or Lisa Lano (-6309) to make an appointment.

Also, the careers office has requested that Quips and Cranks compile a senior directory to be used as a reference source for employers. The deadline for submitting a list of awards and activities to the Quips and Cranks office is Oct. 31.

DELIVERY 7 DAYS A WEEK 8:30 — 11:45 892-8686