Friday, November 2, 1984 / The Davidsonian 9

OPINIONS

Criticism Of Honor Council Unwarranted

Sayers Rudy

In responding to various articles in last week’s Davidsonian pertaining to the open Honor Council hearing of Jeff Kusch, I wish to acknowledge that helpful reactions to the presentation of the case and constructive input to Dean Terry, the Honor Council, and the Student Conduct Council will aid us in making any necessary improvements in the Code of Disciplinary Procedure. The comments of students and faculty certainly merit serious attention and emendations to procedure may be made with respect to these suggestions.

There is, however, an occasionally strong sense of sarcasm and accusation in some of the printed statements that perhaps represents a broader-based dissatisfaction, annoyance, even suspicion on the part of the student body regarding the performance of the Honor Council and the nature of the Honor System. I intend to confront this attitude about the Honor System at Davidson in an analytical manner, not in a tone of defensiveness, and I will do so with specific reference to David McGee’s article “Open Hearing Reveals Council’s Shortcomings,” - an article whose very title is a personal attack on the elected members of the Council.

I would like to respond to McGee’s article on two levels. First, I will voice my personal reaction to the often sophistic and presumptuous reasoning in the article involving the investigation and trial of Jeff Kusch. Second, I plan to capture the general mood of the Honor Council in answering the recommendations that McGee and others have made concerning general procedure. Though McGee's odd use of logic makes rebuttal an intimidating task, I must assay the feat in order to clear the air surrounding the investigation and trial of Kusch.

The one assertion with which I agree is that the solicitors should not privately question a student until they have officially charged that student with a violation. That is reasonable enough; but beyond that point McGee's reasonableness yields to invective in the form of some rather strong accusations. For instance, when McGee snidely quips, “Had the hearing been closed to the public, and assuming the Council would have reached the same verdict (a speculative assumption, I might add)...” he is suggesting that the integrity of the Honor Council may be compromised by the presence of an audience. The decision of the Council was founded in the evidence and testimonies presented at the hearing; there was no fear invoked by the possible feelings of the spectators. The insinuation that the Council is unsure of its decision-making process and therefore feels more secure in the environment of a closed hearing is simply incorrect. McGee is supporting his belief in the mandatory open hearing by implying that the Council can’t be trusted unless it is tested publicly. That is a sad characterization of a council elected by the student body and I deeply believe it is unfounded.

Also very serious is the charge that the Dean and the solicitors brought the case to trial thinking, “Maybe he’s guilty; let’s have a hearing and find out” as McGee claims. (I personally think it’s a trifle presumptuous for McGee to expound on the solicitor’s thoughts and feelings during the investigation, and he does it frequently.) Everyone has to understand that the student solicitors do not bring a case to trial unless they are convinced that the case strongly warrants a hearing.

The Davidsonian is your chance to make your views known. The opinions section is an open forum available to everyone who wishes to make a statement about what is important to them. The Davidsonian both encourages and requires your input. If you feel strongly about any issue of major or personal concern, write it down and present it to a Davidsonian staff member, or bring it to the paper offices. We encourage input from students, faculty, alumni, and anyone who reads The Davidsonian. This is your opportunity to speak out to the Davidson College community. We welcome both letters and opinions articles. Tell us and everyone else what is good, bad, or interesting to you.

The solicitors decide whether a violation may have occurred, the Honor Council decides innocence.or guilt. To be sure, the solicitors will drop a case when no evidence can be found to support the charge. Incontrovertibly, Mr. Engell’s testimony and the text in question were valid bases for the case’s being brought before the Council. Thus, the case was not brought to trial on the basis of simple “promising speculation,” as McGee states. The issue of sufficient evidence in the Kusch case and all plagiarism cases is addressed when McGee says that “unless the solicitors could cite a specific source that the accused plagiarized... then there was no reason to have a hearing.” Again, the solicitors do not bring a case only when they will definitely “win” it. That is, the solicitors will not refuse to present a case simply because the Council will probably find the defendant innocent. Given enough evidence outside of the original text, the solicitors must bring the case to trial. It is quite possible, as Mark Batten points out, that no one will ever be found guilty without the plagiarized text; nevertheless, that decision is the Council’s to make and, therefore, the procedure must be followed.

Furthermore, it must be said that professional opinion is considered valid evidence. McGee’s opinion is that “[p]resenting professional opinions as evidence has a weakness because the defense can usually find opposite opinions.” His implication in the article is that because opposition to professional opinions can be found, perhaps they shouldn't be used; that is a silly notion in that it is tantamount to saying you shouldn't use witnesses because someone might disagree with them. Enough said there.

More generally, the question of hearsay evidence deserves some debate, though our feeling is that hearsay evidence really is judged and weighed in that light and that it can add to the general understanding of the case. The use of hearsay evidence is provided for in the Code, as it probably should be. McGee has a point when he suggests a longer period of time be allotted between the complaint of a possible violation and the official charge to the defendant. The present limit of ten days is a bit restrictive on the investigators; to be fair to the defendant, however, as short a period of time as is workable should be the maximum time allowed.

Whereas the above suggestions of McGee's are to some extent debatable, it is the feeling of the Honor Council and the Dean of Students that if a person charged with an honor code violation seeks a closed hearing that person should not be denied it. The root of the question does not lie in whether or not the student body will accept the outcomes of honor council trial “in a mature way” as McGee puts it. Of course, the campus would. The question is one of privacy on a small campus where everyone generally knows everyone else. Matters of honor can be very personal, perhaps even embarrassing. We contend that it would be ruthless to establish a rule declaring all hearings open with no exceptions. The loss of privacy and the potential for humiliation are too high a price to pay for the “accountability of the Council and the Dean and the opportunity for constructive criticism of the entire process,” as McGee reasons it.

One should note that the questions of hearsay evidence, the time limit for the charge, and the openness of the case, the major points of McGee's article, could have been raised with a perfunctory reading of the code; open hearings are not necessary for the raising of procedural questions. (The question is, how many students have actually thoroughly read the Code?)

Concerning “accountability” one can only say that everyone on this campus should vote in Honor Council elections after some considerable thought, because the rights of the defendant in choosing a closed hearing must remain intact. McGee declared, “anyone who believes that honor hearings are open in practice would also believe that the sun always shines." It is true; most hearings are closed at the request of the defendant. And our point regarding the integrity of the Honor Council is that, indeed, the sun always does shine, but sometimes you just can't see it.

Rudy is a junior political science major from Scarsdale, N.Y., and a member of the Honor Council.