Friday, January 20, 1984 / The Davidsonian ~ ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Winter Workshops Challenge Student Directors

By JOHN GATHINGS and SUZONNE DICKEY

The roar of the greasepaint and the smell of the crowd live on in the hearts of eight ambitious Davidson
students who are this year’s drama workshop directors.

“I have always wanted to direct a play, because I always thought I knew more than my directors,” senior Jeff
Mann said. “The workshop play will give me a chance to prove that I am wrong,” he added.

Junior Roxanna Guilford sees workshops “as a way to relax.” Although she admits it is a lot of work, she
said, “It’s a wonderful creative exercise.” She added, “It’s great to have a class that I totally like.”

The students working as directors have studied directing theory for a term and have chosen a play which fits the
workshop program in terms of length, cost, set, and sometimes, subject matter. After choosing a play, the director-to-be researches the
play and the playwright; makes decisions about style, lighting, set, sound, and costume; blocks the play; and finally casts it.

“I spent all Christmas break blocking the play,” Guilford said. She emphasized the importance of thoroughly planning the blocking ahead
of time. “Once rehearsals start, you see what works, what doesn’t, where the trouble spots are, and you concentrate on
correcting them,” she said.

Senior Karen Baldwin reiterated this point. “You have to research the play and its author to understand how you should
interpret the play,” she said.

Once a play is chosen and researched, the director holds auditions to choose his cast. Theatre professor Rupert Barber said
75 percent of the director’s work is complete when the play has been cast. Casting is “real tough,” according to
Mann. “Everybody who tried out could have done well. It was hardest to choose who not to cast. The important
thing in casting is choosing who looks, reacts, and plays off each other better. One stellar performer by himself is
not very good,” he said.

Because an actor reveals his personality before an audience, Baldwin believes the actor-director relationship demands special attention. “An actor has
a very fragile personality, whether they are a strong person or not. You have to consider this when you are
working with the actor.”

Guilford feels this relationship is especially important in the workshops, because the student director works with his or her peers.
“When you are dealing with your friends you need to work hard to keep the director-actor relationship,” she said. “You
need some sort of hierarchy in order for it to work.”

In addition to the research necessary, special problems occur in doing workshops that a director of another kind of production
would not usually encounter. “It’s so close to the audience, it’s a strange feeling,” Baldwin said. Because of this, Guilford
said her actors “need to worry about concentration.” Baldwin expressed a similar concern, but she believes it is good because
“it gives the actor a different experience.”

The different stage settings as well as the proximity to the audience present a problem. Baldwin’s stage setting is “thrust,”
a term which means the audience surrounds the stage on three sides. Guilford’s play is “in the round,” where the
audience sits in a circle around the stage. According to Guilford, it was “difficult to block the play with the
actors facing the audience without having them turn in circles.”

A bit of general anxiety also accompanies the director’s duties. “Anything could go wrong,” Guilford said. “I’m always conscious of
that. But the directing class prepared me for a lot of the things I’ve encountered.”

Experimentation is possible in the workshops. “I’m doing strange things with costumes and lights,” Mann said. “If you tried some
of these things on a bigger stage, the audience would never catch it,” he added.

The workshop experience provides benefits which offset the problems. Baldwin feels strongly about this. “It’s good for students who just
enjoy doing theatre. It teaches you how to deal with others, and it also helps your acting. You appreciate more
of what goes on behind the scenes when you attend another play. So instead of saying, ‘Oh, the actors are
doing a great job,’ you appreciate the behind-the-scenes work.”

Baldwin, unlike most of the workshop directors, has career interests in mind. “I need more experience in directing, although my
main interest...”is design.” She directed the workshop play “Where Have All the Butterflies Gone” last year as part of the
class, and this year she is directing “Live Spelled Backwards” as an extracurricular project. Nonetheless, she said, “the amount of
time spent is equal to a fourth class.” Once all the preliminaries are taken care of and the 14 days
of rehearsal draw to a close, the set is constructed. The director of the play works with drama professor Joe
Gardner to design the set. The plans are then turned over to the students of Theatre 121 who build the
set, locate props, design the lighting, costume the actors, work on sound, and do publicity for the show. The true
test of all this hard work comes on opening night, when the director goes behind the scenes and turns the
whole thing over to the actors. How well they do will reflect the director’s organization and hard work. In anticipating
the actual performance Guilford said, “I’m cautiously optimistic. I have confidence in the fact that I’m working with a really
good group of people.”

Thymus Vulgaris, Alligator Man Critiqued
By TOM PAFFORD

Last night the winter series of one-act plays began with Thymus Vulgaris by Lanford Wilson (directed by Jenny Cooper) and
Alligator Man by Jack Kaplan (directed by Suzonne Dickey).

Thymus Vulgaris involves an afternoon reunion between a mother, Ruby Bentley, and her daughter, Evelyn. They have not seen each
other for a couple of years, but on this afternoon Evelyn has plans to be married to a man named
Sol, an important grapefruit grower. Evelyn had sent a letter to her mother explaining all of this, but of course
Ruby had not read it, and she is not ready when Evelyn comes by to take her to Hollywood for
the event. As Ruby gets ready, they fall to talking. As the conversation inevitably brings out Ruby’s memories of her
past marriages and pains, it inevitably wears down Evelyn’s hope that her love and marriage will be happy. They never
leave the trailer, and the light on them eventually fades out. Lisa Brawley — who plays Ruby — and Heather
Jameson — who plays Evelyn — both do excellent jobs portraying the tentativeness and submissiveness of their characters. The symbols
of the thyme overgrowing Ruby’s trailer and Sol, the name of Evelyn’s fiancé, help elucidate the forces acting on these
characters. But aside from the realism required, the characters acknowledge that their lives are on display before the audience. In
this play, the convention of the actors directly addressing the audience works well, though it gets heavy-handed at the end.
Jameson does pretty well with the difficult final speeches to the audience. Her character seems to have made realizations through
the play that justify her philosophizing at the end.

In the second play, Alligator Man, everyone is almost too well accounted in this allegory about a Louisiana alligator poacher,
Telesphonte Boosard. The alligators are played by blacks. Just with that information, you can pretty well guess the outcome of
this play. Boosard, the infamous Alligator Man, kills an alligator named Alligator Girl, and her husband, Gruesome Gator, takes revenge
by poaching the Alligator Man. Gruesome comes on at the end, offering his albino-alligator skin wares and touting himself as
the new Alligator Man. Mark Wright gives an excellent performance as Boosard. He brings out the decadent, self-satisfied pride of
a bayou poacher who eludes the law. He stays ignorant to the end. William Bynum gives a good parallel performance
that brings out the wisdom of one who has been supposed a stupid alligator all his life. But all of
this is predictable. Georgianna, played by Anne Goodwin, adds the variation as the white woman who has been suppressed by
ignorant female roles cut from the same cloth as the manly pride worn by Boosard. She goes into the dark
swamp with Gruesome, finding her female and her alligator selves with Gruesome. Even though Anne Goodwin handles this part well,
she alone can’t make this story another Heart of Darkness. Though there are very funny parts, the play didn’t move
fast enough to float on its humor. Maybe the director should have reversed the colors of the alligators and people.

Hilarious French hijinks come to Davidson tonight with La Cage aux Folles. Sure it has subtitles, but at least it’s
not Fellini. Shows are at 8 and 10:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium. $1.50.
