2

Wednesday, December 5, 1984 / The Davidsonian

WDAV Extends Deadline To Meet Goal

WDAV needed four extra days to reach its fundraising goal in this year’s Radiothon, according to station director John Clark.
He said this is the first year in WDAV’s six-year history that the station failed to reach its goal in
the allotted Radiothon period.

WDAV began its weeklong Radiothon Sunday, Nov. 4, with a goal of $115,000. The following Sunday, according to Clark, the
station had raised $111,200. Clark said WDAV extended the drive into the week to reach its goal. WDAV made its
goal on Thursday, he said, and concluded the Radiothon Friday, November 16, with a total of $117,300.

Clark cited several reasons for WDAV’s failure to reach its fundraising goal in the one-week period. The election year, in
particular, North Carolina’s hotly contested gubernatorial and Senate races provided fundraising competition, he said. “On top of that, at the
same time there were at least five cultural arts organizations having campaigns as well,” Clark said.

“Our support is solid,” according to Clark, “but we have to be conscious of the fact that the station reaches
only so far.”

Davidson College Bowl Team Defeats Emory

Davidson’s College Bowl Team traveled to Rome, GA, Nov. 9-10 to play in Berry College’s annual Early Bird Invitational Tournament.
Team members Tim Waples, Chris Blake, David Sisk, and Sara Beasley played 11 matches, including a win over Emory University,
and placed third overall. Emory’s coach praised Davidson’s “real competitive ability with uncommon graciousness and class” in a letter to
Dr. Kuykendall. Coach Hansford Epes and the team will travel to the Regional Tournament at the University of Alabama this
winter.

Volunteers Begin Campaign For Aid To Africa

The annual Christmas Gift Fund, coordinated by the Chapel Committee, will go to Africa through the World Hunger Office of
the Presbyterian Church, USA. In order to give both immediate and long-term aid, one-half of the Fund will go to
emergency aid for famine-stricken areas throughout Africa, and one-half will help the establishment of community gardens in the village of
Dogomnogo, Burkina Faso (formerly Upper Volta) — an area which is experiencing a severe food shortage. Collections will be taken
by volunteers at eating houses, in the dorms, and at the lobby of Chambers; all members of the campus community
are encouraged to contribute to Davidson College’s “Christmas present” to Africa.

NEWS SUMMARY

Fraternity Plans Unique Food Drive

The fraternity of Phi Gamma Delta (Fiji) will kidnap leaders from campus organizations on Friday afternoon, December 7. They will
take the leaders to the Fiji house and hold them for a ransom of a bag of non-perishable groceries. The
groceries will be given to needy people in the Davidson area.

Committee Meets To Discuss Senior Class Gift

In its organizational meeting last night, the Executive Committee for the Senior Class Gift discussed several student proposals for a
class gift. According to senior committee member Blake Carpenter, five ideas were mentioned: (1) To appropriate funds for the construction
of ramps, walkways, etc. giving better campus access to the handicapped; (2) To raise $50,000 in five years to establish
a minority chair; the money would be given in addition to the regular average Davidson salary; (3) To raise $25,000
in 5 years to establish a temporary fully-paid minority chair which would bring a minority professor to campus for one
term each year after five years; (4) To establish a full or partial merit scholarship on a temporary or endowed
basis; (5) To establish the Davidson Student Endowment (DSE) to express appreciation to faculty and staff in the form of
an annual cash grant.

Carpenter said these are the only proposals that have been submitted to the executive committee. He encourages other submissions to
Martha Nelson or Shep Robinson by 5 p.m. Monday, Dec. 10, 1984. Suggestions for change at Davidson are also welcome.
All seniors are encouraged to attend class meetings.

Black Student Weekend Expected To Be A Success

Twenty-eight prospective black students will arrive on campus tomorrow afternoon for a “Davidson Weekend,” sponsored by the Admissions Office and
the Black Student Coalition.

Admissions counselor Steve Soud, organizer of the program, said the students will have an opportunity to attend classes, have an
interview, and see what Davidson College and being black at Davidson are like. The students represent six states, including New
York and Minnesota. A College Board Search and counselor visits to schools provided the pool from which invited students were
drawn.

According to Soud, “This will be by far the most successful black student recruiting weekend for Davidson. The previous high
was thirteen, set last February.”

“I’m delighted,” said Paula Moore Miller, Assistant Director of Admissions. “I think this shows the tremendous effort and sense of
commitment the Admissions Office is making towards recruiting black students.”

VIDEO MOVIES

CHRISTMAS SPECIAL

NOW THRU DECEMBER 31, 1984

OPEN
MONDAYS 1-7

SUNDAYS &
MONDAYS
RENT 2
TAPES
GET 1

NO
MEMBERSHIP FEES

VHS & BETAS

OVER 610 MOVIES
IN STOCK

VCR RENTAL
MACHINES AVAILABLE

Cathy’s Bookswap / VIDEO

SUN. 1-6 • MON. 1-7
TUES.-SAT. 10-7

HWY 115 CORNELIUS 892-3165

Quality '85
GOLD JEWELRY
Necklaces, Bracelets, Earrings, and
Charms

35% to 70% OFF
The Retail Prices
Also discounts of up to 50% on Rolex, Seiko,
and Citizen Watches
Call John Elster
For an appointment - 6153

EMORY UNIVERSITY
ANNOUNCES GRADUATE
FELLOWSHIPS FOR PH.D.
STUDIES IN THE FOLLOWING
AREAS:

Genetics & Molecular Biology
Developmental & Cell Biology
Ecology & Population Biology
Neurobiology & Behavior
UP TO $10,000 PLUS TUITION
For Fall 1985 Admission, Contact:
Director of Graduate Studies
Department of Biology
Emory University, Atlanta, Ga. 30322
