Friday, May 4, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Blacks Isolated Due To White Delusion

Rod Holman

White people, having shit upon the world, have become increasingly uncomfortable with the stench they’ve created. And like a criminal who changes identities in order to escape justice, they mask their crimes with “history” and myth. Still confronted with the disparity between their abundant evil and the myths of white civilization (progress, enlightenment, refinement, etc.), they project their baser drives onto Blacks. Well, no wonder you have trouble dealing with us. After heaping your passionate disregard upon us, Eric Hill, you back away, make a 360-degree turn on the spot, and find yourself at a loss to explain why we are isolated. If you must accuse us of barricading ourselves into our subsidized social club, then please come and wipe your fingerprints off of our subsidized furniture that you pushed up against our subsidized door (get it, now?). At least destroy the evidence before you go before your white judge. Never mind. I forgot that your alibi is automatically airtight because we live in an idyllic land where only spoiled Black children practice racism.

You make your position in the white man’s racial intelligence debate very clear when you 1) label yourself as rational and objective, 2) tell me that the appearance of a Black face among an all-white faculty is racism, and 3) expect me to believe it. You have no objectivity; you are too steeped in institutional racism, propaganda, and self-righteousness. That is why it never occurred to you that there’s something wrong about a society that must pass a Fair Housing Bill, about a leading liberal arts college that up to twenty years ago denied Blacks entrance, or about the fact that you know no Blacks beyond “Hello.” The only thing more despicable than your delusion is that Davidson in no way challenges it. Prejudiced white parents everywhere know that Johnny and Mary can simply sail through Davidson and similar schools with myths intact. Where else do class leaders and Ph.D.’s maintain that the Black masses are deservedly poor and happy about it, that a historically disenfranchised group which is still being denied full participation is overindulged, and that the demands of Blacks are the only flaw in an otherwise unbiased system?

Don’t talk to me, Eric, about color-blindedness and judgment on the basis of individual characteristics; we are all incapable of the former and you apply the latter with whites only. In one breath you champion the individual and in the next you expose your real beliefs by implying that Blacks are all of one mind. You reveal your own haughty seclusion when you charge that it’s the BSC that discourages Blacks from joining fraternities. Nice try, but you know very well from whence cometh the discouraging vibes. Truth is, most people would prefer run-of-the-mill oppression-at-large without the added displeasure of oppression up close and impersonal at 6 p.m. every day.

What I’m getting at is this: the white delusion has grown so large that the duper has become the duped. Whites have conveniently forgotten the true chain of cause and effect. Why are whites uneasy around Blacks? Why do white people invariably say, “I want to approach you as an individual; not as a Black,” or “I like you in spite of the fact that you’re a Black”? Why do you want to separate my individuality, i.e., my human worth, from my Blackness as if the two were incompatible? I’ll tell you why. Essential to the white delusion-turned-reality are the myths-turned-history of 1) Africa, the dark and savage continent and 2) the lazy, hardworking, immoral, devout, dumb, crafty, loyal, ungrateful, subhuman, soulful, ugly, oversexed, dirty, historyless nigger. These concepts have become second nature to white people to such an extent that they cannot understand why Blacks would voluntarily call attention to themselves and their “horrible” Blackness by observing Black History Month or wanting even more Blacks on campus. We make you uneasy because our presence triggers your guilt, challenges your assumptions, and forces you to confront yourselves at your worst. That applies only to those of you who think; the rest actually believe these stereotypes and simply don’t want to be around someone who, according to mommy and daddy, fits the above description.

I won’t go into the implications of the self-contradictory nature of your Black stereotypes. They are your creation: an integral part of white culture and the white psyche. You’ve adorned us with your failings and segregated us, thereby guaranteeing that we went underfed, undereducated, and underemployed and... whaddyaknow!... out we came in your image of us. But Funk and Wagnall tell it differently and Eric Hill doesn’t realize how much of him, and his white family and friends, went into “the Black problem.”in America. Allow me to quote Jean-Paul Sartre: "What then did you expect when you unbound the gag that had muted those black mouths? That they would chant your praises? Did you think that when those heads that our fathers forcibly bowed down to the ground were raised again, you would find adoration in their eyes?" Add to that, if you will, the poverty, discrimination, subliminal oppression, and psychological head games that bind us today. But please don’t stare into my face expecting anything more than a questioning look. A rational, objective approach is of use only to an informed mind. Most whites are unaware of the true culprit in the racial problem because they do not recognize the implications of their actions. Worse yet, they are indignant about their ignorance. Twenty-seven million Black Americans daily confront an irrational barrier of color prejudice, in addition to the general frustrations of life. Yet you deem yourselves relevant when you begrudge us a “subsidized” shelter from your insults. Peculiar.

Holman is a sophomore Spanish major from Winston-Salem, NC.

Of Whom Is Davidson Afraid?
Suzanne Dickey

I suppose as the year winds down all of us seniors take a look back at the last four years at Davidson to see what we've learned, what we've lost, and how we've changed. Anne Elliott is leaving Davidson with feelings of pain, injustice, and bitterness. I can’t say that I blame her, I blame Davidson, but I wish that she hadn’t lumped all of us white middle-class students into one group. More than one minority exists at Davidson. Although the school is geared toward collecting a student body composed of bright, white preps from the East Coast, a few odd fish are caught up in the net each year. We don’t all drive BMWs. People ask me all the time what I’m doing at Davidson. I usually laugh and say I became lost on my way to Duke. Perhaps I am really here to test my tolerance for conservatism.

Without black students on campus, I might have been swallowed up in this conservatism. My parents are conservative Presbyterians, and I come from an area of the South where people think nothing of saying “nigger,” where the school district lines run carefully between the neighborhoods, and where I never had the chance to make a black friend. Davidson gave me that chance through a fellow track team member. With him, I went to my first all-black party where I was the only white person. I held hands with him, I hugged him, I visited his room, I went places with him, and, of course, Davidson talked. An innocent friendship was turned into an ugly gossip item, and I wanted to run out and bang everyone’s stupid, prejudiced heads together. Instead, I learned to pity those who would not learn and change and ignored the talk.

It is not the duty of Davidson’s black student population to make the effort at communication, understanding, and friendship so that the white students can (possibly) be enlightened. I will be the last to say that I am completely unprejudiced; I have had the white master mentality too well drummed into my head to have it fade away in four short years. Davidson will continue to drum into its students’ heads the white superiority ideal as long as there is such an appalling imbalance of blacks to whites in the student body, faculty, and administration. Without a correction of this imbalance and without courses to teach black history, Davidson students may never know that there are articulate, intelligent, sensitive, caring, and suffering black people in the world and at Davidson because these students will not make the effort to find out themselves.

An education is much more than reviews, labs, papers, and exams, especially at a school which claims to be liberal arts. An education involves learning to understand and accept people different from yourself, keeping an open mind, and experiencing new things. Any Davidson student who shuts himself off from a friendship with a black person or someone who’s gay or different for any reason from his/her usual circle of friends does himself and whoever pays his tuition bills a gross injustice. I’ve learned more from the students and faculty at Davidson than from the courses I’ve taken.

Life outside Davidson is affectionately known to us all as the “real world.” The illusion of Davidson keeps us safe and warm and, if we allow it, unchanged by people and things alien to our world. Like the college in Edward Albee’s play, "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?", Davidson is set in a small town which lends itself easily to illusions. In Albee’s play, the intellectual joke, “Who’s afraid of Virginia Woolf?” becomes a symbol of reality which the characters are terrified of facing. Who’s afraid of Virginia Woolf? You are Davidson, you are.

Dickey is a senior English major from Slidell, LA.