10 Friday, April 13, 1984 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, David Resnik, Associate Editors
Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Randy Stroud, Photography Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

Zoned Out

The Town of Davidson Planning Board’s recent attempt to devise a rule which would eliminate off-campus fraternities has failed. Phi
Gamma Delta and Sigma Phi Epsilon are safe, for the moment. The Board’s attempt, however, sheds light upon a serious
problem within the town’s governmental structure. Apparently, few officials in town government know how to interpret their own statutes.

It is clear from the public hearing last Tuesday that Planning Board members and North Main Street residents felt the
proposed deletion would rid them of off-campus fraternities. Mayor Nancy MacCormac told The Davidsonian three weeks ago that if the
resolution passed, the fraternities could no longer exist where they are. The Fijis and the SPEs, consequently, were under the
same impression. Only when Fiji alumni board member Brian Evans ’72 contacted Town Attorney Richard Kline did the Fijis become
aware that the proposed deletion would not affect them. Judging from reaction at the hearing when Kline and Evans discussed
the same matter, residents, some Planning Board members, and some Town Council members were also unaware of the legal realities.

Of course, it is Kline’s job to understand the technicalities involved, and the Council members’ jobs to make policy based
in part on his advice. The Planning Board, however, did not even understand the legal implications of its actions, and
apparently neither did the Mayor and the Council. The fraternities were specifically warned about the deletion and the hearing, as
if they specifically stood to lose something by it; they never did.

Granted, the zoning ordinances are complicated and technical. But if the Planning Board uses them to recommend a policy, it
ought to be aware of exactly what its proposal means.

You Light Up My Life

We commend the Physical Plant for lighting the way to Knox and Irwin. Trekking through the quagmire behind the Commons
in the dark is irritating at best; at worst it could be dangerous. With the increase of potentially violent events
on and around campus, such a highly traveled but undeveloped area could easily become the lurking ground for all sorts
of mischief.

We also await the results of the ongoing negotiations between the town and the College concerning the new dispatch system.
We hope, until the Duke Endowment funds come through, that the two groups can devise a workable interim solution which
provides efficient security for the campus and the town.

Ross Holt, Editor

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available
on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: David Van Pelt, Boyd Blackburn, Assistant News Editors. Roxanna Guilford, Rand Hartsell, Bob Loper, Frances Palmer, John Ruppenthal,
Tom Schilling, Elizabeth White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Miguel Abreu, Brian Butler, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris

Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Kerry Brown, Hunter Gourley, Scott Huie

Photography Staff: Carroll Overton, Assistant Photography Editor. Brad Brechtelsbauer, MichaelDent, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Rocky Kmeicik, Laura McGee, Anderson Scott,
Mike Snell, Bruce von Stein
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey
Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt
Production Staff: Kevin Horan
Compositors: Lou Hamilton, Anne Lambert, Rob Pool, Debby Williams
Copy Editing: Christine Jackson
Circulation: David McCurry, Manager

PP, Cloud > 44/13/84
Gee Muffie, aren't they supposed to be rolling?!

LETTERS

Korea

To the Editors:

Reading Mr. Broadwell and Mr. Jordan's letter (The Davidsonian, April 6) concerning Korea, I feel compelled to respond. The authors,
in my opinion, are absolutely correct in their assumption that the real Korea bears little resemblance to the silliness of
M*A*S*H and that organizations such as Amnesty International go a long way in keeping tabs on those who would abuse
power. But, this is where my agreement ends.

Between 1974 and 1983, I have spent a total of four and one-half years living in Korea, and found it
to be a nation far different from the one depicted by Broadwell and Jordan. I have resided on rice farms,
in small towns, and in Seoul city. My numerous Korean friends include poor farmers (by U.S. standards), liberal college students,
and a University professor. While none of them share all of the freedoms we Americans enjoy, they are far from
the oppressed masses Broadwell and Jordan depict. In regular correspondence with Korean nationals, I find the postal system vastly superior
to “smuggling” letters out of the country (Broadwell and Jordan seem to have a flair for the dramatic). I also
find that Koreans old enough to remember life under the Japanese and North Koreans could tell Broadwell and Jordan significantly
more about political oppression than the authors' long-suffering school chums.

Just 30 years after the nation of South Korea was decimated by a Soviet-sponsored war, it has risen from the
ashes to an economy and standard of living in Asia second only to Japan (Broadwell and Jordan should visit the
Philippines before making comparisons). South Korea’s survival depends on U.S. support and while the current government is not a model
of democracy, it is one that can, and will, improve. I am sure that it must be fun playing at
social change in other nations, but before Broadwell and Jordan bring down the Seoul regime they should cast an eye
to the North. North of Seoul, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (with Soviet guidance) has nurtured an accurate replica
of Orwell’s “Nightmare State.”

Donald Kropp

Dialogue

To the editors:

I think it would be a crime for something which has been going on actively on campus in the last
few weeks not to be recognized, or better yet, praised. That something is dialogue. Too often a college campus, particularly
one as academically rigorous as Davidson, with all of its demands on students, can lull itself to sleep creating an
environment lacking stimulating discussion on current issues, ideologies, or beliefs. This situation here would be very sad indeed, considering the
brighter and inquisitive minds found at Davidson. Too much potential for constructive and significant debate would be lost here!

I am thinking particularly of the recent dialogue concerning the propaganda literature on nuclear arms and Central America which was
distributed about two weeks ago. The dialogue was not always dignified; there was some very strong criticism. But who wants
dignity at the expense of good old human emo-
