Friday, April 6, 1984 / The Davidsonian 7

Film Noir Atmosphere Key To The Big Sleep

By CRAIG DETWEILER

The Big Sleep (1946): Directed by Howard Hawks. Starring Humphrey Bogart, Lauren Bacall, Dorothy Malone, Elisha Cook, Jr. ****

Corruption, greed, scandal, darkness, and cynicism dominate the post-Watergate sensibilities of most Americans. From a desire to be gritty, streetwise,
and generally tough, modern American males identify with the grittiest, wisest tough guy of 'em all, Humphrey Bogart.

As Phillip Marlowe in The Big Sleep, Bogart provides the insightful detection necessary to penetrate a dark, dreary world. In
the film noir movement, The Big Sleep exists as a study in tone, atmosphere, and psychology rather than as a
study in storyline.

As a romanticized vision of film noir, The Big Sleep dramatizes the pervasive distrust and disorder which characterizes the modern
world. Film noir, literally "black film," arose as a response to World War II. During the post-war period of doubt
and depression, it expressed the darkness that covered American emotions. A distressing acknowledgment of the evil in human nature resulted
in films about vice, greed, and corruption. Heroes in this black vision could not be squeaky-clean patriots, but tough, knowing
investigators who perceived the human condition.

Film noir found its heroes in the hard-boiled detectives of '30s literature. Taken from a Raymond Chandler novel, The Big
Sleep exhibits the bleak atmosphere of the paperback thrillers. Key ingredients like blackmail, murder, and a promiscuous daughter are all
present.

Director Howard Hawks understood that The Big Sleep could not be a cold, calculated murder-mystery. With help from William Faulkner
on the screenplay, Hawks created the stark Los Angeles night upon which Phillip Marlowe thrives. The confused, indecipherable plot should
concern the viewer; atmosphere, rather than story, is the thing.

Given a consistent vision and mood, the right performers must be chosen to inhabit this bristling creation. Bogart's screen persona
seems perfect for the Marlowe character. In portraying a seasoned, bleary-eyed private detective, Bogart does not appear to act. He
simply plays Bogart. Raymond Chandler understood what makes Bogart the quintessential private eye. He observed, "Bogart is so much better
than any other tough-guy actor. [He] can be tough without a gun. Also, he has a sense of humor that
contains that grating undertone of contempt."

Credit for Bogart's intense performance must also be given to his co-star and wife, Lauren Bacall. After debuting together in
To Have and Have Not, Bogey and Baby approached The Big Sleep as love-struck newlyweds. Their fresh, off-camera romance leaps
off the screen during their acting scenes together. Their sizzling dialogue and sexual presence charge the film with an undeniable
energy. The strong supporting cast of quirky, eccentric characters also contributes to the weighty atmosphere. In this crisp film environment,
the perfect lean, lively roles are created.

While developed within the constraints of the '40s studio system, The Big Sleep displays personal artistic vision. By smoothing the
rough, film noir edges, the studio also makes a scintillating film into accessible entertainment. Approach The Big Sleep as a
classic movie that will confound and enthrall. Don't worry about plot confusion and inconsistencies. Allow its cynical tone, acting, and
mood to jibe with the post-Watergate suspicion that permeates us all.

---

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin' bring along this money-savin' coupon.

STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND
Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due.
This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours only at participating Hardee's
Restaurants through May 31, 1984.

© 1983, Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.

REGULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due.
This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at participating Hardee's Restaurants
through May 31, 1984.

© 1983, Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.

---

DO IT NOW!

Davidson Students Do

Some do it for the $...

Some for the prestige...

Some for the fun...

Some for the best work-study job on campus...

Some for increased insight into Humes...

Become A WDAV Announcer

Train now for 1984-85

For audition appointment, call:

JOHN CLARK
WDAV RADIO
College Union
892-2000, ext. 131
