2 Friday, February 17, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Class of 1988’s Hall Counselors Selected

After interviews, essays, and peer evaluations, next year’s hall counselors have been selected. Counselors are: Peter Baay, Sara Beasley, Jim
Berson, Rob Bradford, Kate Brewer, Tommy Cardwell, Vince Dennis, Nancy Fannin, Mary Beth Harding, Frank Hobart, Charles Jenkins, Jamie Kaiser,
Suzy Klineman, Phillip Lackey, Robert McLean, Monicah McGee, Pat Millen, Alice Nelson, Scott Purdy, Sayres Rudy, Robin Scheid, Ross Sloan,
Jeff Willis, Christiana Wiseman, and Hayes Woollen. Alternates are Edward Hay, Joe Johnston, Laura Rainey, and Beadsie Woo.

No Cable Ahead Until Spring For Court Houses

Cable TV will not be installed in Patterson Court houses until spring at the earliest. The Lakeside Cable TV Company
is responsible for the delay, according to Patterson Court Committee president Rob Spaugh. Spaugh proposed the idea at the first
of the year after a plan to get cable in the dorms fell through over the summer. Spaugh said he
asked the cable company and Facilities Planning Director Grover Meetze about the idea in the fall and they said that
all that had to be done was to run a cable to each house. Each house could then set up
an individual account with the company. He also talked to Maintenance Engineer Phillip Cashion who expected installation by Thanksgiving. After
nothing was done, the Court Committee had Will Terry write a letter to Meetze asking for the reason for the
delay. SGA president Hunter Monroe then asked Meetze. Meetze blamed the cable company. Spaugh talked to Buck Warren, a representative
of Lakeside Cable Co. “He said that they would come to North Mecklenburg eventually when they start their expansion plan,”
Spaugh said.

College Archivist Chalmers Davidson Honored

The class of ’28 honored fellow class member College Archivist Chalmers Davidson this week for his outstanding service to the
College and for his efforts to keep their class together over the years. In a luncheon Tuesday, John Akers ’28
announced that the class has established an endowed book fund and donated a faculty study carrel in the library in
honor of Chalmers Davidson. “I’m glad it is ‘in honor of’ instead of ‘in memory of,’” Davidson said. He said
the class has never lost the spirit it had when it graduated, and he has always thought the class kept
up their enthusiasm despite hard times, such as the Great Depression.

VW Bug Damaged In Hit And Run Accident

A car belonging to senior David Earnhardt suffered damage when an unidentified vehicle struck it last Saturday night. The 1975
lime green Volkswagen Bug was found next to Martin Manor in the middle of the road leading into the College.
The back bumper was torn off and the right rear of the car was smashed. No insurance estimates have yet
been made but Earnhardt said the car sustained “probably a couple of hundred bucks” worth of damage. Earnhardt said he
first discovered the occurrence when campus police woke him at 4:30 a.m. He responded that he was “mildly irritated” about
the hit and run and asks that anyone with pertinent information should contact him or the campus police.

NEWS SUMMARY

Students Sweep Stars Contest

Juniors Joe Park and Craig Detweiler won the Davidson College Art Gallery’s contest to see who could identify the most
photographs of movie stars and famous personalities of the ’40s, ’50s, and ’60s taken by photographer Phillipe Halsman. Juniors Park
and Detweiler named 26 of the 45 subjects. Twelve people entered the contest. Attributing their success to “a lot of
help from friends and research.”In old Life [magazines],” Park and Detweiler considered the contest “a challenge.” Park admitted that “some
of the photos were so obscure that we had no idea” who they were. The winner’s prize is a photograph
in the contest valued at $450. Neither Park nor Detweiler were able to identify the prize photo. The point of
the contest was not to win the prize, but “to get people involved in the exhibit,” said art professor Herb
Jackson. When it comes to dividing the prize between the two, Park said, “We’ll just flip a coin. We just
did it for fun anyway.”

The man behind the photographs, Halsman, achieved a reputation in the U.S. as a master of portraiture. During the days
of Life magazine, Halsman’s work frequently appeared in its pages, and he is the only artist ever to do the
cover 100 times. Halsman, who died in 1979, photographed many of the most celebrated personalities of the time: Winston Churchill,
Albert Einstein, The Duke and Duchess of Windsor, John F. Kennedy, Bertrand Russell, Joan Baez, and others. In fact, three
of his portraits have been issued as U.S. postage stamps.

College Choices Based On Race, Wealth

(CPS) — About the same percentage of America’s high school graduates went on to some sort of college education in
1980, but for the first time more women than men continued their educations. Moreover, a student’s race, socio-economic background, and
geographic location seem to play a role in deciding if the student will go on to college after high school,
and if the student goes to a two-year or four-year school, the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES) said in
a new survey.

Over half the nation’s high school seniors of 1980 went straight to college, NCES’s annual “High School and Beyond” survey
found. The enrollment rate was not unexpected. “The overall percentage (of students going on to college) has been fairly constant
in recent years,” said Tom Snyder, NCES’ education program specialist. “Through most of the seventies, the rate has hovered around
50 percent, except for during the Vietnam era when it was up somewhat,” Snyder said.

Even more 1980 high school graduates continued their educations in the three years since they graduated, the report reveals. Besides
the initial 54 percent who immediately enrolled in post-secondary schools, an additional 14 percent attended some form of post-secondary institution
in the three years after their graduations.

The high school class of 1980 also marked the first time since World War II that more women than men
went on to college. By fall, 1980, 33 percent of the women had enrolled in four-year colleges and 19 percent
went to two-year schools. Men’s attendance rates were 30 percent and 19 percent, respectively.

Asian Americans had the highest college attendance rate of all racial and ethnic groups, the study shows. Seventy-four percent of
all Asian-American high school graduates went on to attend some form of college, compared to 51 percent for whites, 44
percent for blacks, 33 percent for Hispanics, and 34 percent for American Indians.

Eggrolls Shrimp on a Bun 11 AM to 9 P.M. CARRY OUT Old Cornelius Fish Market & Oyster Bar MAIN
STREET CORNELIUS $2.39 Pitchers on Thursday... Before the Disco! 10% Discount for Students and Professors Steamed Shrimp and Oysters Complete
Lunches and Dinners Fresh Key Lime Pie

KING OF PIZZA 663-3030 225 S. Broad St. Mooresville

FAMILY NIGHT Every Monday Night 5 To 10 PIZZA BUY ONE PIZZA (ANY SIZE) GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE FREE
