Friday, May 11, 1984 / The Davidsonian 9

classroom. A gay studies course should be offered, but

Gays At Davidson: An Invisible Minority
Name Withheld

Over the past few weeks, Davidson has been learning about the struggles of being black at Davidson. Time and time again, blacks have complained about the attitudes at Davidson and they are slowly making some progress. A RACE (Racial Attitudes Concerning Everybody) committee has been formed and two public forums have examined their plight. The BSC has received $6,000 and has a house on Patterson Court. Further, the College catalogue states that Davidson does not discriminate on the basis of race or color. Because of all this discussion one might believe that they are Davidson’s only minority at 5 percent because they are so vocal. Well, Davidson, this is not the case.

I am a member of the largest minority outside of women. I am a male, belong to an on-campus fraternity, play on a sports team, and am active throughout this campus’s life. Other members of my minority are also active members of the student body and the chances are that at least one of them is a close friend of yours. We don’t discriminate on any basis; we have blacks, Catholics, rich and poor as members. Sounds like a majority — what could make us a minority? Well, Davidson, we are gay. Yet we are degraded daily when one hears some bigot use the derogatory term “faggot,” whether in fun or taunting. For those of you who don’t know, “faggot” is the gay equivalent of calling a black a “nigger.” It is never acceptable. Ever. Most of us prefer the term gay when we discuss our sexual preference (which isn’t that often).

Being gay is never an easy thing to deal with if you are a student at Davidson. Everybody knows everybody else and this place is far from liberal or accepting. Gays make up from 10 to 12 percent of the U.S. male population according to most respected studies, although the people I talked to (both gay and straight) in preparing this article all feel that this figure is a bit low when describing Davidson. Most estimated from 15 to 20 percent. We will probably never know. Regardless of which figure is exact, it still means that out of the 835 males at Davidson there are from 83 to 167 gays here, mostly closeted.

I want to qualify these figures. First, I am not including gay women because they only make up 2 percent of the U.S. female population. Second, in using the term “gay” one must realize that sexual preference is not a black/white issue. There is a continuum from straight to bisexual to gay and everywhere in between. Further, sexual preference is not constant and can change over time and situation. Therefore, labels are not a part of our sub-society. The “gay” I use is a catch-all phrase that members of our society use to describe the attraction of one male towards another, though not necessarily at the expense of his attraction to females.

So what is so difficult about being gay at Davidson? Well, several things. The first is an implication of the definition of being gay. Each gay at Davidson is different — some have explored their feelings more than others. Further, we all have varied interests. Some like sports (as I do), others are into religion, and still others like publications. The sub-culture at Davidson is relatively weak and so we don’t all know each other. What this means is that gays at Davidson (and most other backwards, small, homophobic places in general) lack unity because we are never able to get together. This is a problem, as I will explain, because especially at our ages we need to talk with each other and share our feelings and problems with each other. Yet, there is no way.

At least 23 or 25, but sooner or later almost all gays “come out” — at least to themselves. This whole period is often a frustrating, painful, and long process which has many stages. Davidson is the worst place on earth to do this, and each year many gays drop out, take time off, or go abroad to seek relief from Davidson’s homophobia. There really is no analogy to the coming-out experience. Blacks never have to discover that they are black, much less tell their parents about it. And I would like to let the world know once and for all that there is no such thing as “choosing to be gay.” I didn’t “choose to be gay” any more than Anne Elliot “chose to be black.” There are a million theories as to why gays exist and a million exceptions to each theory. The bottom line is that it doesn’t matter. Gays have always been a fact throughout both history and nature and we will continue to be. We are everywhere. And since we are students at Davidson, and often do come out while we are here, Davidson should try to make this process less painful.

First and foremost, Davidson College should not practice discrimination on the basis of sexual preference. Nowhere in the College’s statement on discrimination is sexual preference ever mentioned. It should be. Putting it there is not an admission of past guilt, only a statement of future policy.

Second, Davidson should provide better counseling and role models. I am sure that there are some gay administrators and professors here at Davidson. And while I don’tI want them flinging their sexual preference across the classroom, I do think they should be available to gay students who want to discuss problems. While I don’t ask for a gay Dean of Students, (or a dean of gay students) I will ask for a gay counselor who understands our problems and doesn’t have a “hot-line” to the dean’s office as I’ve heard the current counselors do. As for role models, I’m not sure what can be done. In most people’s minds, gays cannot be successful. With the possible exception of politics, this statement is a myth. If you are gay, you can do almost anything you want in life. Straights and gays who are coming out see only waiters, florists, interior decorators, and artists who are gay. They never see the private parties where gay lawyers, doctors, and business executives socialize. Though gays at Davidson will eventually know this, it would be difficult to do this at Davidson because of the recrimination that would occur if it were even attempted. Davidson happens to fall during the point in many gays’ lives when we begin to recognize what our feelings are all about. Others may wait longer until they are at Davidson. Davidson should find some way to let gays know that their sexual preference need not stand in the way of their ambitions.

Third, Davidson needs to treat gays fairly. We have a history too, and it is less widely known than slavery. For instance, do you know what Stonewall was about (and I don’t mean the general)? In the classes where gays are discussed, it is under the heading of “deviance” and the discussions often center on the dark sides of the gay world, such as tea rooms. Has any sociology professor ever been to a gay bar or party in his or her life? Don’t people know that tea rooms are not the part of the gay world that Davidson graduates live in? Tea rooms are a very small part of the gay world and by far the least attractive. Is that the reason it is taught? I have never been to one, although I have seen them. Yet this is the impression of gays that is left with Davidson preps for the rest of their lives. It might also lead to the question, “If I’m gay, am I doomed to sex in public bathrooms?” by a confused gay who is in the process of coming out. The straight equivalent of this teaching would be to describe heterosexuality to someone who knows nothing about it in terms of pimps, whores, and sluts. It just doesn’t do heterosexuality justice. Well, the whole way Davidson teaches about gays is unjust and counter-productive to both gays and straights in understanding what the gay world is all about.

Fourth, I am not asking for a gay student coalition. That is too far off for right now; nobody would join. Nor am I asking for $6,000 from ATC to have gay parties at a GSC and recruit members. I am only asking for the equivalent of a race committee; Davidson needs it desperately and it should be composed of straights. Gay “suspects” are gossiped about, which reflects the whole underlying attitude problem. Those who come out to friends are often given the cold shoulder thereafter. Parents have disowned their children, girlfriends are shattered when well-meaning friends tell of their boyfriend’s last love to a man. Davidson, you have a problem: attitudes. While gays are an invisible minority, we are forced to be and suffer because we cannot open up to anybody. We are paranoid because we know if word leaks, a semi-stigma results. Several examples of this are evident at Davidson and most of the readers know who these people are. Yet, I admire them because they continue to endure here rather than leave. Davidson, you need to rethink your attitudes about gays. We are here. The forum last year was a start and there was an incredible response. Now you need to face what you dread: the fact that we are at Davidson, the fact that we are struggling because of your attitudes, and the fact that we are silent because we know the penalty for “coming out in a big way.” But most of all, you must face the fact that you are afraid of us because you don't understand us. And because of that fear, you are hurting us and missing the liberal arts education which you claim to seek.

Finally, remember that we are just like you except that we are attracted to our own sex. We are not limp-wristed, nor out to rape or molest anyone. All we want is for our preference not to matter — because it shouldn't! We want this change in attitude more than anything else. I wish I could sign my name to this, but I can’t. I know I would lose friends, my parents would disown me (and hence I would lose my education), and my future would take a dive. But I also have a life to live, and my sexual preference is a very small part of that life, a private part which I only want to tell to close friends and not have to hide from the rest of the world. I don’t want to be paranoid about people finding out, but then neither do I want to advertise it. Too many gays spend too much time being gay. But conversely, while closets are warm and secure, they are also very lonely. Life in a locked closet is no life at all.

But always remember Davidson — whether we are in the closet or out, we are in every organization and on every team at Davidson: we are here.

The writer is a Davidson upperclassman.