6 Friday, September 21, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Selections From The Presidential Advisory Paper

Editor's note: The following are excerpts from the Presidential Advisory Paper. The selections were edited for brevity and clarity.

The Presidential Advisory Committee was formed in the fall of 1983 by Student Government President Hunter Monroe. The purpose of
the committee was to examine as many issues as possible in which students actively participate or feel they should participate.
We chose to approach the study by asking different interest groups on campus to describe briefly the history of their
organizations, the purpose they serve the students and the community, and the future role they would like to play in
the life of Davidson. Most groups approached were very cooperative and interested in the opportunity to present themselves to the
new administration’s attention. The paper does not, however, include all campus organizations, nor does it represent every student’s opinion.

The two most notable deletions in the paper are the subjects of athletics and the opinions of each individual eating
house and fraternity. The reason that the committee chose to omit the subject of athletics is not because we feel
students should not play an important role in making decisions in these areas. The reason is that opinions about the
athletic program are too many and too diverse to examine in this brief paper. We realize the many effects that
it will have on individual students and teams when changes are made in the structure of the athletic programs. Therefore,
we ask that the students’ voices be heard when the Davidson athletic program is next examined.

This is similarly the sentiment of the Committee regarding Patterson Court. There are far too many arguments for and against
changing the fraternity system. While this paper presents a good profile of the issue of fraternities on Patterson Court, it
offers no proposals by or opinions of specific fraternities.

The content of each report submitted to the Committee is essentially unchanged. We hope that the information which we present
in this brief is helpful to you in better understanding some of the various interests of students at Davidson today.

Patterson Court

The report of the Patterson Court Study Committee of the SGA, chaired by Warren Gould:

The Patterson Court Study Committee was formed in the spring of 1982 in response to growing concerns among Davidson students
that the College’s social system was no longer functioning fairly or effectively. It was determined to examine in depth the
system of Self-Selection and suggest ways in which the system might be better.

The Committee recognized several faults in the system. First, it [the system] was not working as then President Samuel Spencer
had intended when the self-selection system was implemented in the fall of 1972(?) [sic]. Theoretically, each house on the Patterson
Court, whether or not nationally affiliated, was to accept without question any student — male or female — into its
membership. However, at least three of the four fraternities which remained on the Court after this implementation continued in varying
degrees to encourage certain male students to join their membership. With such encouragement came some implied discouragement, as those students
who did not receive encouragement also did not receive the invitations to closed parties and such [sic] which were extended
to the students being sought by the fraternities. In essence, the self-selection system had failed to remove selectivity from the
self-selection system. In a 1983 PCSC student survey, 81 percent of the respondents felt the system was not working as
designed in theory.

Second, the three most selective Patterson Court fraternities — KA, PiKA, and SAE (the fourth, Phi Delta Theta, remains essentially
self-selective, as do the other houses on the court) — developed means of communicating selectivity to the freshman class without
overtly breaking the system’s rules. These included extending written invitations to the sought freshmen for open and closed parties, ignoring
unwanted freshmen at open functions, and extending “oral encouragements” to those freshmen the fraternities wished to have join their brotherhood.
At least 96 percent of the students who returned a 1983 PCSC survey on self-selection equated the three selective Court
fraternities’ oral encouragements with written bids. (The college adopted oral encouragements as an acceptable court policy in 1974(?) [sic]. Other
less passive means of communicating discouragement to freshmen have in the past been used, varying from spilling beer on the
undesired student, to inviting him to a meal and completely ignoring him, to telling him outright he is not wanted
at that particular house.

Third, the Committee saw problems with the incoming classes’ orientation to the Court. The problem began with the College Catalogue,
which for the academic year 1982-83, read “. . . freshmen may select the house they wish to join, and
every effort is made to place them in the houses of their first choice” (p. 25). The misleading impression is
one of virtually utopian computerized self-selection. The Committee felt that freshmen were also being misled in freshmen orientation. Some few
students continued to think the Court to be totally self-selective up until the end of winter term, when the freshmen
are asked to make their house selections. By that point the three fraternities usually feel quite confident who will and
will not join their houses.

The Committee therefore

Advisory Paper Contents
— Davidsonian Article: “Visions and Revisions: A Patterson Court History” by senior Ross Holt
— Report on the first Self-Selection Committee, 1983-84
— Report, Study, and Conclusions from the Patterson Court Study Committee (SGA)
— The Actual Survey and Research Materials Used in the PCSC Study (SGA)
— History of Self-Selection Report by the Presidents of Patterson Court, 1983-84 and 1984-85

II. Honor Council
— Report from the Honor Council by Bobby Silver '84
— Various Materials concerningthe Honor Council
III. Security and Parking Committee Report (SGA) by Frances Palmer, '84, and Jim Mashburn, '84
IV. Women’s Concerns Committee — Report from the WCC by Debra Williams '84 — Women’s Impact Study Committee (SGA) by
senior Chris Blake
V. Black Student Coalition — Write-up by William “Stone” Bynum '84, President 1983-84 — Articles on the Subjects of Blacks
and Racial Discrimination from The Davidsonian
VI. Y-Student Service Corps Report by seniors Beth Maczka and Chris Blake.
VII. The Union by President Thomas Evans
VIII. Intramural Athletics
IX. Davidson Christian Fellowship: History and Purpose by Charles Wiley, '84
X. The History of the SGA Faculty Evaluation Committee by senior John Laughlin
XI. Semester System Study — Statement of Purpose and History of the SGA Semester System Implementation Committee — Faculty Proposal
for a Semester System

Forward
The Committee felt the College was being unjustly deceptive in its presentation of the social system. The Committee also recognized
some positive aspects of the social system. The first and perhaps most important was the extended time period the freshmen
enjoyed before deciding which house they wished to join. In allowing the freshmen (and the houses) almost two full terms
before the selection process, all people involved had sufficient time to become acquainted with the system, the houses, and their
members. The members likewise had sufficient time to become acquainted with the various freshmen. The Committee also noted that inter-fraternity
competition and pressure did seem to be on the rise, and the relationship between the fraternities was still relatively casual
and healthy.

The PCSC began its study only with the basic assumption that problems did in fact exist within the workings of
the current social system and that, therefore, something should be done to correct it. There have been, over the past
11 (7?) [sic] years, three basic proposals defended and attacked and reiterated among the student body in various different wordings
and fashion of reasonings: (1) to remain under the present system of self-selection but to watch the fraternities’ rush tactics
more closely; (2) to return to a strict enforcement of self-selection, requiring national fraternities to leave campus if necessary; (3)
to take the final step in the direction the system has been evolving, allowing fraternities to extend written bids but
keeping the local eating houses under the rules of self-selection (the “two-tier” proposal). The Committee decided initially to abandon these
proposals, possibly returning to one of them when the study was completed. The PCSC included the results of various surveys
and referenda in its report.

PCSC Conclusions and Recommendations
As evidenced by the many editorials in The Davidsonian during the spring of 1983 concerning self-selection and by the heated
debate in the PCSC’s open forums, there is no easy solution to Davidson’s social system problem. Of ultimate concern is
the individual student. Has he been treated fairly? Has he been hurt? Have his rights been maintained? Attention must also
be given to the Patterson Court houses: how best will they operate effectively and efficiently and have their rights been
maintained? The question of rights seems central to this whole issue. A line must be drawn, apparently, between the two
parties on at least one point — the issue of selectivity. Greek social service fraternities are by nature exclusive; membership
is available only to those whom the fraternity selects to join its brotherhood. Davidson’s present social system is by nature
inclusive. The right of selection rests with the individual student, who may choose freely to become a member at any
house. The PCSC concludes that these two ideals cannot exist and have not existed under one all-encompassing system. Students should
have a clearer understanding of Patterson Court even before they apply to the College for admission. This means a change
in the College Catalogue. Once they arrive in the fall as freshmen they should be presented with a candid, realistic
picture of Davidson social life.

Black Student Coalition
This section was drafted by Stone Bynum ’84
The BSC was originally formed as a social group in order to promote unity amongst Davidson’s few Black students. Since
its founding, the Coalition has undertaken a dual objective of not only promoting unity amongst Black students, but also of
educating the rest of the campus on Black affairs and the Black experience at Davidson. To accomplish this dual objective
the Coalition has been given a house on Patterson Court and has developed four committees (Publicity, Recruitment and Orientation, Social,
and Special Events). The BSC has had moderate success in its programs thus far in the past few years. However,
we feel we lack genuine interest from the College campus. Our goal is to become part of the College, not
a group set apart from it. We feel our contribution to the campus is good, but what we need and
urge is continued support from the students and administration of Davidson College. What we wish to convey is that the
Black experience at Davidson is a different one, one which we feel is beneficial for the whole campus to learn
about. The BSC is made up of a diverse group of students, all of whom are willing to share their
experiences as Black Davidson students. We feel that one has not had a truly liberal arts education until that education
has encompassed the Black experience. The main goals of the BSC right now are more Black students and faculty members
and the incorporation of Black studies into the existing curriculum: i.e. more Black writers on the English reading list, a
Black history course, etc. We realize that our goals cannot be accomplished without the help and support of the rest
of the campus. Articles appearing in last spring term issues of The Davidsonian were also included in this section of
the report.
