Friday, March 23, 1984 / The Davidsonian 13

OPINIONS

No Rules in World Politics

Jeb Benedict

In the dictionary of political science professors, the entry for “negotiated settlement” might read, “the answer for every dispute.” Throughout the land, one hears the bland calls for diplomacy as the means for dealing with each and every foreign policy issue. The idealism of such faith in negotiating disputes obscures the harsh reality of the political world. For real-world decision-makers, the achievement of goals is not solely or even primarily in the realm of academic-style negotiation. Scholarly simulations lack the true atmosphere of success and failure, mutual antagonisms, and political distrust. There are simply no rules to the game except one — power yields results.

It is disheartening to view the idealistic myopia of American observers who profess that problems in, say, Central America can be solved by negotiations. In the United States, when a President includes a member of the other party in his cabinet, he is considered bold. In El Salvador, where the two sides have been butchering each other, they are expected to sit down with civility and emerge after some pleasant discussion with a written agreement answering the prayers of millions. Surprised that the fighting continues in Central America? The problem is not in the simple unwillingness of the two sides to negotiate an agreement; the crisis is the expression of their mutual incompatibility. Remember, too, that the guerrillas are a force to be reckoned with solely because of their force of arms. A lack of “legitimacy” engenders in them a hostility toward written agreements. They understand the nature of power.

In the Mideast, the Reagan Administration has continued American efforts to encourage stability and, ultimately, peace in the region. The Reagan Peace Plan, despite its being hailed internationally as the most promising effort to date, failed because it emphasized the impossible and the foreign: irreconcilable views are supposed to find mutual ground for agreement in briefcases. The sad truth is that negotiating is more a function of the exercise of physical power than of verbal polemics. Brute force — costly, ugly and as old as time itself — continues to be the language of political negotiation throughout the world. That truth was (literally) delivered to the American doorstep when a truckload of TNT passed unarmed American soldiers to demolish the Marines’ Headquarters in Beirut.

The Pentagon report over the Beirut massacre underscored the point: unloaded rifles carry little negotiating weight in the face of a moving cargo of explosives. Further, the report understood that retaliation could not be found in the old way of political pronouncements of outrage, but only in forceful “retaliation in kind” against a group whose main asset is its inconspicuousness. The whole passion play of largely defenseless American soldiers caught in a city beleaguered for forty years illustrates the curious American half-truth of negotiation. If power were not the basis of the Lebanon crisis, then why the Marines? Whither the New Jersey? Military men understand what others tend to forget: negotiation is not a gentlemen's game, particularly with terrorist movements whose weakness forces them to exercise the crudest form of political initiative. Western politicians and academic gentlemen, comfortable in the safety of their august and legitimate institutions far from the foci of the issues, can afford to forget the inevitability of power. They are not being shot at.

A survey of recent political crises suggests that negotiated settlements have minimal success and limited viability in a divided world. The current international order largely dates from the Second World War, which, it is worth noting, never was concluded with a peace treaty. Power, not negotiation, yielded the division of Europe and the dismemberment of Germany. The two Koreas still live in an uneasy truce under a legacy of an unended war; despite continuous negotiations, no peace treaty was ever signed. The Berlin Crises were marked not by negotiation, but by exercise of power: first in military mobilization in 1948-49 and then in masonry in 1962. The Vietnam Conflict (surely not a war, since no diplomatic declaration was made) ended not with a series of noble diplomatic settlements, but with the inglorious withdrawal of American troops and overwhelming influx of Vietcong fighters. The entire Southeast Asian region still lives in a legacy of horror dictated by force, the currency of raw power.

The misfortune of the modern world is the failure of “negotiability” of political disputes. Only relatively small matters can be easily dealt with by gentlemanly agreements (e.g., the PanamaCanal Treaty, the international General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, international air traffic agreements, business contracts). Larger purely diplomatic agreements are doomed by the pervasive and dynamic nature of power. Lebanese President Amin Gemayel met with Syria’s Assad because he has realized a new basis for negotiating: an impending Syrian occupation force. Sadly, power rules all.

In the resolution of American/European trade disputes, a negotiated settlement may be possible. But in negotiating major political disputes in the world, crisis politics is sad business. The United States is by good fortune or the grace of God comfortable and secure within her borders. (This has not always been the case; in our Civil War we butchered three-quarters of a million of our own people.) This security, a feature shared by the developed democracies of Europe and Japan, has fostered a mistaken faith in the powers of diplomacy. The rise and fall of détente and the calamities of the world’s crisis regions demonstrate that there is more to the political settlement of disputes than the carrying on of a conversation in a comfortable neutral location.

In foreign policy, the U.S. must realize (as the Soviet Union clearly does) that settlements are reached through a combination of political diplomacy and the exercise of political, military, and economic power. Might does not make right, but it certainly has a role in crisis issues which cannot be ignored. Unlike some frightened idealists, I see the foreign policy of the Reagan Administration as more encouraging than several past Administrations’ or any of the current Democratic offerings. Zbigniew Brzezinski, National Security Advisor under President Carter, has pronounced the Reagan Administration's foreign policy as “more realistic.” What is needed is a good mixing of diplomatic negotiating and political pragmatism. The Kissinger proposal for Central America is a promising case in point: it blends the realities of 1) economic aid to deal with the injustices of Central American society and 2) military assistance to meet the realities of the adversaries. Negotiating alone cannot solve anything.

Idealists in the comfort of their American living rooms or academic offices should pause to consider the sad reality of crude force in foreign crises. It is a fact of life faced by the citizens of other countries, and one which many in the U.S. are preparing for. Witness the new barricades throughout the country at national and political landmarks. Even far from crisis regions, terrorism is a major affliction. The central role of the United States, her size, power, media coverage, internal freedoms, and her massive and largely-open borders lead many analysts to the inevitable conclusion that the U.S. will be the world’s new growth market for political terrorism.

The tragedy of mankind is his horrid nature. Politics is first an exercise of power, the basic form of political dialogue. Crises where viewpoints or objectives are incompatible inevitably lead to a failure of negotiating and a reversion to the common denominator of decision-making. A survey of recent political crises suggests that negotiated settlements have had minimal success in a divided world. In the ugly realm of political reality, power will largely dictate the future of world political disputes. The tragedy of the crisis regions of the world — the Mideast, Northern Ireland, Central America, the Koreas, Kampuchea, Ethiopia, Namibia — is the fundamental inability of two (or more) opposing sides to deal with one another in anything more than the basic form of political dialogue: violence.

Some countries recognize the inviolability of power in their foreign policies: the Soviets used tanks, not diplomats, to quell a crisis in Afghanistan. The Iranians and Iraqis use tanks, artillery shells, and waves of young Jihad-driven faithful to pursue their political objectives. Guerrillas in El Salvador send their message by destroying the infrastructure of the very country they wish to save. For all its messiness and repugnance, bargaining with bullets remains the primary means of making. American foreign policy must reconcile the role for negotiating with the timeless role of power. That means utilizing American political, economic, and military influence and combining it with pragmatic, comprehensive, and realistic programs of conventional diplomacy. That need not violate the values of the American people; with prudence, it may increase the role of the U.S. as a force for good in the world. The Reagan Administration, now wiser for its lessons in Central America, the Mideast, and Geneva, provides the best potential for such a realistic approach toward the crises of the world.

Benedict is a senior Center major from Potomac, Maryland.