Friday, January 13, 1984 / The Davidsonian 7

Jules Verne Classic Probes The Depths Of Disney

By MATT MORRIS

20,000 Leagues Under the Sea is a very deep Walt Disney film. In the 1950s, Uncle Walt and company dug
deep into literature-that-little-kids-will-understand-yet-adults-will-have-fun-with, and 20,000 represents the peak of this classic period. In the fantastic world of this Jules Verne
tale, the pleasure of innocent Disney adventure transcends comic bookdom, and the result is indeed a classic “classic” movie. Kirk
Douglas, the ever-menacing Peter Lorre, and the completely diabolical James Mason (as Nemo, his rendition of Toccata and Fugue in
D minor is creepily arabesque) all walk into the dazzling animated sets with supreme confidence in their talents as cartoon
characters. The result is a visual delight, and in the hands of young director Richard Fleischer, it’s spontaneously agreeable. Leagues
is the most professional kiddie movie before Star Wars, with even less affectedness.

1983’s Best Films

Every year across the country, film critics are compiling their lists of 1983’s top ten films. Not wishing to break
this tradition (and besides, it’s kind of fun), here is my list:

1. Tender Mercies. If it were just for Robert Duvall’s performance, this film would already sit at this high perch,
but Australian director Bruce Bereford shows a rare textured feeling for the American South, and the story, a deceptively simple
tale about a country and western singer, brings out the tenderest of mercies in one’s heart. Excellent.

2. The Right Stuff. Kaleidoscope-like adventure/satire/romance/counterculture/flag-waving fun. An American poem, and an amazingly experimental one.

3. Fanny and Alexander. Ingmar Bergman’s valentine to the world — one part Smiles of a Summer Night, two parts
The Magician, and all extremely entertaining. A loving labor of love.

4. Scarface. With Scarface, director Brian de Palma continues to amaze (and sadly, to be overlooked). A complex, often hilarious
commentary on “The Age of Junk” in which we live.

5. Silkwood. Mike Nichols (who directed The Graduate) returns after an eight-year hiatus and once again shows everybody how it’s
done. Not about nuclear power, evil conservatives, not even about Karen Silkwood, Silkwood is Nichols’s testament to the working class
of America. Kurt Russell (and the entire cast) is outstanding.

6. Terms of Endearment. Writer-director James Brooks's first film is an actor's movie, and the team of Winger, Maclaine, and
Nicholson glides over the more calculated moments of this generally endearing film. An annoyingly tear-jerking movie.

7. Return of Martin Guerre. An atmospheric retelling of the Martin Guerre story with Gerard Depardieu giving a dynamite performance.
An exciting, even unsettling, mystery.

8. The Year of Living Dangerously. Australian director Peter Weir has created an ambitious mess with Year. Many flaws (last
third of the movie) and many virtues (Linda Hunt).

9. Return of the Jedi. A slam-bang, zap-out conclusion to the Star Wars tale. Critics complained that Jedi was too
sentimental, but that’s how the movie serials would have done it.

10. A Christmas Story. The only true surprise of the year. Not a dopey kid’s movie (director Bob Clark’s previous
credits include Porky's and Porky's II, if that’s a hint) but a warm, wildly hilarious stroll through 1930s America. A
“small” film, but completely successful.

Honorable mentions include Rear Window, A Star Is Born (heaven-sent reissues), King of Comedy, and Never Say Never Again. Not
a bad year, but it was no 1939.

Looking for a part-time job?
Openings for hard workers at

UNITED PARCEL SERVICE

Applications are to be accepted at

United Parcel Service - (Corner of I-85 and North Graham) in Charlotte

Interviews at United Parcel Service on:
Wednesday, Jan. 18, 4-6 p.m.

Pay: $8.00 per hour
15 to 25 hours per week
Monday through Friday

Excellent benefits

Additional inquiries or information available through Careers Office

Equal Opportunity M/F
