THE DAVIDSONIAN
Friday, April 6, 1984
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Volume LXXIII, Number 21

By DAN VOORHIS

How can one man tyrannize an audience of 300 people for four hours, and yet leave them feeling freer than
when they came in? Dr. Charles King, who held a seminar on racial awareness last Wednesday afternoon in the Gallery,
berated his listeners into anger and then twisted that hostility into a positive force aimed at destroying racism. King emphasized
the importance of his mission at the beginning of the seminar, and promised that the audience would “never forget these
four hours . . . I speak as if it were my last day on earth. I have no time
for games, no time even for questions. I must speak because I have fire in my bones.”

For the first three hours, King forcefully presented his argument that white institutions are the sole cause of racism in
America. He backed up his argument with charts, statistics, and a booming voice. He kept discussions away from any intellectual
consideration of the issue, and instead tried to graphically convey the black experience. King ignored, or silenced, any comment with
which he did not agree. College Chaplain Charlie Summers felt the weight. “I was not intimidated,” he said, “but I
was more timid than usual. I didn’t want to arouse his ire.” King got these comments through a number of
devices, such as audience opinion of the identity of a recorded voice, or by asking provocative questions about individual racial
attitudes. The seminar, a four-hour excerpt of a standard two-day course given by King at churches, businesses, and universities, was
divided into three parts. First he (continued on page 4)

SGA Elections
Council Alters Election Rules
By ALLISON WILLS

Despite opposition from several SGA senators, the Elections Council of the SGA decided to prohibit Honor Council candidates from actively
soliciting votes for this week's election. The move was caused by problems with last year’s election. “There was a problem
last year because the policy wasn’t in writing,” said Elections Council Chairman Edward Hay. “To avoid problems this year, we
put the policy on paper.”

Under the Elections Council's policy, Honor Council candidates are not allowed to approach students to solicit votes. The candidates’ names
are posted the week before the election, and students are urged to approach the candidates with any questions or concerns.
However, the SGA Senate voted against the policy 12 to 11 in a non-binding poll. SGA by-laws do not allow
the Senate to negate the Election Council’s decision. “The decision is up to the Elections Council, and the fact that
the vote was 12 to 11 [in favor] points out that they were evenly divided. We contacted individuals on the
Honor Council and relied on their input,” Hay said. The Honor Council was in favor of prohibiting Honor Council candidates
from actively campaigning, he added.

SGA Vice President Beadsie Woo felt that the Senate split evenly enough not to cast doubt on the Elections Council
decision. “It was not a flash-in-the-pan, rapid decision. We didn’t decide hastily. Everyone had input,” Woo said. Sophomore Duncan Fraser
argued his opposition to the proposal to the SGA.

Drugs At Davidson: A News Analysis
By DAVID MCGEE

Of all the aspects of student life at Davidson, drug use is difficult to determine. Many students and administrators feel
drug use has increased in recent years. And with this...Increase, problems have developed, along with warnings of harsher penalties for
illegal use of drugs on campus. Why and to what extent do students use drugs? Does Davidson have a drug
problem? And how should drug problems be answered?

Drug Use at Davidson

The presence of drugs on campus has mixed interpretations. Alcohol — by far the most widely used drug at Davidson
— is used openly by a large number of students. Since North Carolina raised its drinking age to 19 last
October, most freshmen have not been permitted to drink on campus, particularly in the 900 Room and at Patterson Court
parties. According to many people on campus, drinking has increased in recent years. “I perceive there to be an increase
in drunkenness and the frequency with which individuals are getting drunk,” Dean of Students Will Terry said in a recent
letter to students. One senior remarked, “My freshman year there was only one party where everyone drank to get drunk.
Now it seems some people go out several nights a week to get drunk.”

In contrast to alcohol, other drugs have a hidden but prevalent use here. One student said he knew of at
least a hundred students who smoke marijuana on a regular basis, and added that a lot more probably do. “It
is quite possible that I have been naive during the last several years,” Terry said in his letter to students,
“but it is currently my impression that the use of drugs on the Davidson campus has escalated this year.” Terry
is especially concerned with the use of other drugs in addition to marijuana, particularly cocaine. The availability of drugs has
also increased in the last few years, said two students, who asked that their names not be used. “Our freshman
year there was one reliable dope dealer. Now there are several who deal on a large scale and many who
just deal to their friends.” Cocaine, mushrooms (which contain the chemical psilocybin), and LSD (acid) all come in once a
week, they said.

(continued on page 4)

Senate saying very few students would seek out the candidates to meet them. He said this decision should be subject
to SGA approval. “In the case of the Honor Council, a person must be ‘honorable’ to be selected, and I
think the only way that some students, especially freshmen, can know peoples’ personalities is by meeting them,” Fraser said. “Under
the ‘law’ as it is now each voter must seek out the candidate if they want to meet him or
her, and I feel that’s wrong.” Fraser felt that since few students will approach the candidates, the Honor Council will
be “less representative and possibly less credible and respected.” Fraser also said that the proposal is an “overreaction” to a
problem last year when he passed out campaign flyers because he was misinformed about campaign policy. He said the incident
caused a major problem, and the elections had to be postponed so the other candidates could campaign.

Honor Council President Bobby Silver favors the policy. “The Council felt like campaigning is not bad where creativity, innovation, and
issues are concerned, but there is no creating or innovating to the Honor Council... it’s not like the SGA,” he
said. Silver said that by campaigning, “candidates can only say that they will do their best as a judge. You
can’t convey character and integrity through campaigning, but a better view of character comes from how the candidate is seen
every day.” Honor Council Secretary Nancy Ros-

(continued on page 4)
