Friday, April 20, 1984 / The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Cats Outlast Appalachian And J.C. Smith

Lower Positions Carry Men’s Tennis

By KERRY BROWN

Nothing went wrong for the Davidson College men’s tennis team this week. The Wildcats outwitted, overpowered, and simply outplayed their opponents to raise their won-loss record to 14-8 for the season. Davidson defeated Johnson C. Smith University, 9-0, and the Cats kept Appalachian State at bay in a thriller which saw Davidson win the match 6-3.

Davidson met JCSU Tuesday afternoon, and when the match ended and the dust settled, JCSU’s team was in a state of confusion. After JCSU head coach Bill Lyde finished scolding his players for numerous mental mistakes, and dispensing tennis tips (which included phrases such as “stop pushing the ball,” “play the net more,” and “wake up — communicate,” after all of these do’s and don’ts), Davidson had completed an impressive sweep over the Golden Bulls.

Not only did Davidson win, but the closest match was a three-set doubles duel which saw freshman Trip Caldwell and sophomore Eric Schimdhauser outlast Errol Thomas and Gary Robinson for a 5-7, 6-4, 6-3 victory. Davidson seemingly did everything right in the match while JCSU could never break away from their lackadaisical play.

Furman Sweep Ends Davidson’s Playoff Hopes

By ANDY BARRON

The hopes of the Davidson baseball team to qualify for the conference playoffs ended when Furman swept the Cats last weekend. The Wildcats jumped out to an early 2-0 lead in game one. However, a two-out, bases-loaded double by Furman won the game for the Paladins, 3-2. Sophomore Scott Weaver, who pitched another fine game, took the loss.

Saturday’s first game had a lot of scoring and a one-hour rain delay. Davidson was led with a four-for-four performance by freshman David Turgeon. A clutch single by sophomore Chip Knox tied the game at seven and sent it into extra innings. However, freshman Steve Condon was unable to hold the lead and the Cats lost 8-7.

“Steve made a mistake typical of an inexperienced pitcher,” Coach George Greer said. “He got behind one batter and was afraid to get behind any more. He threw pitches right down the middle and they got some hits. That’s just the way it goes.”

The third game of the series was an exercise in frustration. The rain delay caused a late start in the second game, and as soon as four-and-a-half innings (the minimum for an official game) of the third had been played, the game was called. Furman was ahead at this point and received the 7-1 victory.

“The last game should never have been started,” Greer said. “The umpire said he felt the game could be played before it got too dark. However, anyone who knows anything about baseball should know an hour-and-a-half isn’t enough time to play a baseball game.”

The series put a damper on what had been a productive season. Davidson still has quite a few games remaining, but without the incentive to make the playoffs, the Cats are merely ‘playin’ for pride.”

Schenk Leads Team In Charleston Match

By TYLER LONG

Last Friday and Saturday the Davidson golf team competed in the annual 36-hole Citadel Golf Invitational at Charleston Harbor, SC, on the treacherous Patriots’ Point Golf Links. After a short rain delay, which barely gave the players enough time to return to the shelter in the clubhouse, Davidson, sparked by sophomore Bob Carr’s 78, finished ninth out of eleven teams through 18 holes. Senior Gary Schenk (85), freshmen Bobby Downie (85), and Tom Davis (89) also led the team. Davidson’s scores improved dramatically on the second leg of the tourney, probably due to the experience gained after their introduction to the course on Friday.

Team captain Schenk, who scorched the course in 76 strokes, led the pack on Saturday. Close behind was freshman Tyler Long with a 78. Sophomore Bob Carr finished further back at 84 with Davis and Downie deadlocked with a pair of 86’s. Saturday’s improvement moved Davidson ahead of two more teams and even with another, placing them in a tie for 6th place overall.

Coach Tom Cartmill looks forward to the Southern Conference Tournament on April 23-25 at Raintree Country Club in Charlotte, NC, with a well-founded confidence in his squad, which has now produced lower team scores than any previous team at Davidson.couldn’t put anything together against a deep Wildcat squad, and when the Golden Bulls could not find the winning touch, “they blew it in good fashion,” as Lyde muttered during the final sets of his team’s ordeal. Freshman Hayes Dallas continued his dominance at the number one singles spot for the Wildcats by dumping Errol Thomas 6-0, 6-0. Dallas now has an impressive 14-7 individual record despite the top-notch competition he’s faced during most of the season. Junior Sedge Gray continued his winning ways, downing Koray Ortwikler 6-0, 6-1. Gray also has an above-par individual record (13-7) and has been a key to the Wildcats’ success. Senior Mark Nottingham complemented the 1-2 punch of the Dallas-Gray combination by throwing a knockout punch of his own to JCSU’s Chris Womak. Nottingham disposed of Womak 6-0, 6-0. The play of the number one, two, and three players is usually where the Wildcats get their finishing stroke power.

By CHRIS HOLDEN

The Wildcat stickmen continued their string of bad luck last weekend with back-to-back losses on Saturday and Sunday. With only two games remaining in the season, a winning record is now impossible. However, a pair of closing victories would help the Cats redeem some earlier close losses to finish the season with a respectable three wins. This would compare favorably with season performances in the recent past. Saturday dawned a perfect lacrosse day, and spring frolicking pervaded the atmosphere on the field before the game. Charlotte Club was a bit tardy about arriving, and it is possible that our Cats had too extensive a warm-up period. Indeed, the start was encouraging as junior Chris Holden tallied right off the bat on a feed by senior Jay Norman. This was to be the Wildcat’s only lead of the day. It remained close for most of the first half, with Charlotte establishing a two-goal lead. The second half saw Charlotte's former all-Americans come to life, and they quickly jumped out to a nine-goal lead. Dispirited, the Cats finished bravely, but the scoreboard told the final tale: 15-9, Charlotte.

It would seem then, that the Cats would be ready to seek vengeance against Pfeiffer College on Monday afternoon. Bad vibes, though; even Will Terry's magical presence could not spur the laxsters to anything beyond a lackluster performance. It was a tired, frolicked-out bunch that took on a fresh, well-coached, well-monied, Pfeiffer team. The score was a miserable 12-4, with Norman taking honors and a much-deserved goal by senior Brad McCall. On other days, Davidson might have done well against Pfeiffer. Said Williams of the outing: “We never really got our minds off of the run-down battlefield. Most of us still had egg on our face. It was just a mudslide out there, tumbling, tumbling, never ceasing, always gaining momentum in its destructive path towards low ground.” The team looks for a good performance against UNC at Chapel Hill next Thursday. Davidson beat NC State; and State beat Chapel Hill.