Friday, April 20, 1984 / The Davidsonian 3

Admissions Committee Decides Class Of '88
By DAVID McGEE

The Admissions Committee has accepted a total of 609 students for the class of '88. Dean of Admissions and Financial
Aid John Griffith expects to enroll a freshman class of about 350 — 210 male and 140 female. A total
of 1,750 students applied to Davidson, compared to 1,801 last year. Of the 595 accepted last year, 367 enrolled —
158 female and 209 male.

According to Griffith, 350 students is the average for most classes; this year’s freshman class is slightly larger because of
the abnormally large senior class last year. Next year’s freshman class will also reflect the 60 percent/40 percent male to
female ratio set by the Trustees. The Trustees set the male to female ratio at 60/40 for the entire student
body and will allow the ratio to fluctuate for each class to permit more flexibility in the admissions process.

The median Scholastic Aptitude Test scores for the accepted group are 650 (Math) and 600 (Verbal). Due to projected decreases
in the number of students applying to colleges, many schools have been offering students scholarships based on merit. Griffith is
concerned that competition from other schools may decrease Davidson's yield ratio (the percentage of those accepted who attend) from the
students it has accepted for the class of '88. The yield ratio here has usually fallen between 50 and 59
percent.

Griffith equated the increased use of financial aid based on merit across the country to “buying students through scholarships.” “It’s
a no-win situation. [Colleges] end up spending millions more for the students they have always had,” he said. Holding the
“financial carrot” puts students in an awkward position, he said. The financial aspects of the school are at times emphasized
more than the quality of education it will provide. In some schools, the increase in merit aid to recruit more
students is substantial, according to Griffith.

“We're not sure how our yield will hold up,” Griffith said. But, he said, many highly qualified students are on
the waiting list. Griffith expects to take several students off the waiting list. The deadline for acceptants to enroll at
Davidson is May 1.

By TOM SCHILLING

The date of the opening of Davidson’s new post office has not been announced yet, according to Postmaster John Fisher.
The post office plans to move from its present location on Main St. to a larger, new building about one
hundred yards away.

“The final inspection on the building comes next week. We notify officials in Charlotte and a date is set,” said
Fisher. “We have to set up files and distribute new box numbers.” Fisher was aware of complaints about box numbers
being changed. He explained that the new building is larger and has more boxes, requiring more numbers. Some numbers in
the present post office will cease to exist.

Further, Fisher said, the post office handles student mail somewhat differently from normal town and business mail. “You probably don’t
need your mail at 8 a.m. in the morning but businessmen do,” he said. Also, most students leave for the
summer. The new numbers are designed to try to ease the organization of town and college mail.

Fisher was excited about the relocation. There is more room and, he expects to do a better job. He still
anticipates a period of confusion following the opening date. “It will sure be weird closing up one day in the
old place and opening the next day in the new one.”

Spring Convocation To Give Awards
By DAN VOORHIS

As the school year winds down and another class prepares to graduate, Spring Convocation celebrates the College’s outstanding faculty and
students. The event will happen in Love Auditorium next Friday at 11 a.m. The ceremony involves the entire college community,
as the seniors and faculty don robes and march to the strains of classical music.

Over 20 departmental and general awards will be given out to students for excellence in many areas: music, German, Chemistry,
Constitutional law, economics, athletics, pre-med, and military science. Also, a faculty member will receive the prestigious Omicron Delta Kappa award
for excellence in teaching.

Also, honorary doctor of science degrees will be awarded to two distinguished medical doctors. The first, Dr. Edmund Pellegrino, director
of the Kennedy Institute of Ethics and professor of medicine and medical humanities at Georgetown University, will address the gathering.
He will speak on “Medical Ethics and the Liberal Arts.” The other honoree...is Dr. John Graham, '38, a professor of
pathology at UNC-CH Medical School. Convocation will feature two new awards for students this year. The C. Shaw Smith Award
will be presented in recognition of service to the College community at the College Union. The award was established by
John Huie '78 to honor former Union director Smith. Smith was director from 1952 until his retirement last year. The
other prize given for the first time will be the Philanthropic Society Essay Award. This is to be presented to
the winners of an essay contest split into categories, under 1000 words in length and 1000-2500 words in length. The
contest was traditionally open only to Phi Society members, but from this year on the entire campus was eligible to
enter. The winners should be picked by next Thursday.

Blake, Murphy Receive Grants For Foreign Study
By DAVID VAN PELT

A $1,000 grant from a member of the Dean Rusk Endowment advisory committee will help juniors Chris Blake and Greg
Murphy pursue foreign study projects in Mexico and India, respectively. Watson Fellow David Barnard '79 donated the one-time grant to
Davidson’s International Education Committee this year to be given to students planning study programs abroad this summer. Six students applied
for the grant, according to IEC chairman and economics Professor Clark Ross. Blake and Murphy’s proposals were judged “particularly meritorious,”
Ross said. Blake and Murphy will divide the grant. Barnard donated the money with the provision that the students not
be seniors, according to Ross. The reason for this, he said, is that “we want the student to come back
to Davidson and disseminate some experiences of the summer.” Though Barnard’s grant is not formally affiliated with the Rusk Endowment,
Ross said, “It’s also the type of thing we envision will occur within the Dean Rusk Endowment.”

Blake
Chris Blake will spend the summer in Mexico City, studying political economy at the CIDE institute there. He will work
under Dr. Leon Bendesky, Fulbright Scholar at Davidson fall and winter terms. “I’m not going to be enrolled in a
given university program,” Blake said. “It’s going to be basically an individual project.” He will have an office in the
institute, and hopes to associate with a number of scholars and government officials. He plans to live with a local
family, but, he said, “I don’t know exactly which one yet.” A political science major, Blake is particularly fascinated with
the political and economic condition of Mexican peasants, and plans to travel a great deal on his own in the
late summer, examining that problem first hand. “In part I want to study how peasants articulate and realize, or don’t,
their political demands,” he said. “The grant enables me to do some more traveling than I had originally planned to
do.” Blake’s senior thesis will concern Mexican politics, which “in all probability at this point” will involve the peasant situation.

Murphy
“I’ve been given a lot in life, and I think it’s time I gave something back,” said Greg Murphy, explaining
his plans to spend the summer treating leprosy victims in a hospital in Dhanbad, outside Calcutta. Murphy will be involved
in several projects in conjunction with a Jesuit mission in India. Aside from assisting in treatment and surgery of leprosy
victims in the Dhanbad hospital, Murphy will also work with a paramedics unit which diagnoses and treats villagers in the
countryside, and tutor the children of leprosy victims at the De Brito House near Calcutta. Murphy will also have the
opportunity to work with Mother Teresa in her poverty mission in Calcutta “whenever I can get in there, whenever she
needs people.” He will live in the hospital, where English is spoken, but most villagers speak only Hindi. “I'll pick
up as much [of the language] as I can over there,” he said. He is eager to share his lessons
in India with his fellow students. “Hopefully I can bring back and relate to people what the other culture is
like,” he said. He plans to keep a daily journal this summer and hold a forum next year. Murphy admits
conditions won't be the best. Temperatures will be in the 120-degree range, “and that’s before the monsoons.” Nevertheless, he looks
forward to the summer. “I'm a pre-med major, and I think this will be a good testing ground,” he said.
“I kind of wish more students would take advantage of all the opportunities in lesser developed countries.”
