6 Friday, March 16, 1984/The Davidsonian

neys, ministers, chairmen of Fortune 500 companies... all good people. The diversity of applications we received says a lot about the prestige Davidson has nationally. We knew our responsibility would be awesome and that our decision would have influence on a whole generation of leadership,” Craig said.

Craig explained that the committee did not discuss whom it was interviewing to save the candidates not selected from embarrassment. Also, Craig said, the committee wanted to avoid what happened during Wake Forest's search for a new president last year. When the media announced the names of the five candidates Wake Forest was considering, several of them withdrew their applications.

As the nominations came in, the committee's two secretaries, Sue Hunter and Tish Kimbrough, collected information on the candidates. They transferred the information onto resumé-style forms for the committee's use. Each member studied, categorized, and rated each candidate. The committee narrowed down the pool of applicants to about 30 and began interviewing them last July.

Kuykendall was one of the first candidates the committee interviewed. Craig said the committee knew Kuykendall would be a promising candidate after his first interview. Kuykendall’s academic career, Christian commitment, and warm personality impressed the committee.

In one interview, Craig said, a committee member asked Kuykendall what he would do to increase Davidson's national prominence. He responded that he would do what he thought best for the College, and hoped that Davidson would receive national recognition as a result. But national prominence, he said, would be secondary to the welfare of the College community.

During a January interview session, several members found themselves comparing candidates with Kuykendall, Craig said. “This is when we realized, ‘Here is the guy who has all the qualities we are looking for,’” he said. The committee, however, wanted to wait until the Trustees’ February meeting to vote on Kuykendall to make sure the members had reached a consensus. Kuykendall’s overwhelming acceptance by the committee and the Trustees has convinced Craig that the committee made the right choice.

Faculty and Staff Concerns

According to religion professor David Kaylor, who was on the Search Committee, the faculty wanted someone who was completely sympathetic to the ideals of a liberal arts education. It was important to the faculty, Kaylor said, to find a president whose style of leadership reflected the democratic traditions of Davidson's faculty and administrative processes.

One concern among faculty and staff is Kuykendall’s lack of experience in fundraising. Craig said, “He readily admits that he is not an experienced fundraiser. The committee felt, however, that a person like Kuykendall — who loves the school and embodies the spirit of Davidson — would be very effective in fundraising.” Kaylor added that Kuykendall will require support from the Trustees in the area of fundraising.

Kuykendall’s Background

Senate and the General Faculty. He was ordained as a minister of the Presbyterian Church in the United States in 1965, served on the Task Force on Higher Education in 1978-82 which was appointed by the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, and was elected to the board of trustees of Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary in 1982. He is a member of the American Academy of Religion and the American Society of Church History. He has contributed articles to several publications and presented papers at many conferences.

Kuykendall is a native of Charlotte and is married to the former Nancy Moore of Mobile, Ala. Mrs. Kuykendall graduated from Agnes Scott College and received a master’s degree in education from Auburn. The Kuykendalls have two sons, Tim, 17, and James, 15. Kuykendall is the son of Emily Frazer Kuykendall of Coventry Road, Charlotte and the late James Bell Kuykendall, Jr., Davidson class of 1927.Mystery Science Fiction Historical Romance

CATHY’S BOOK SWAP
Main St. & Hwy. 115
Cornelius, N. C.
Swap and Sell
Silhouette Ecstasy Romance Western

“since they are in a position to help him as no one else can.”

Asked what immediate changes Kuykendall would make, Kaylor said, “It would not be style to announce an agenda of change... Kuykendall will bring a period of consolidation to Davidson.”

Student Input

Junior Mike Mauzé, a member of the committee, said the students on the committee contributed a different perspective to the search. He said he and the other four student committee members felt intimidated at first, but the other committee members from the beginning indicated that the students’ opinions counted just as much as those of any other committee member.

Junior Elizabeth Brooks related one incident during a meeting when Craig asked the representatives of each subcommittee what they thought about a particular candidate. Craig then asked each student’s individual opinion. “The committee recognized the importance of student opinion because we had a direct knowledge of events happening on campus. The students on the committee also represented a diversity among the student body,” Mauzé said.

Kuykendall met with the students on the committee shortly after Christmas to discuss student concerns on campus. The SGA has prepared a collection of different student opinions on campus issues to present to Kuykendall when he takes office. About Kuykendall, Brooks said, “His personal warmth first comes to mind. When he said in his speech that ‘I am a first name person, and I intend to be called John by all of you’ — he’s like that. He is a people-oriented person.”

Mauzé added that Kuykendall was a fraternity member, an athlete, an ROTC cadet, and a member of other student groups as well when he attended Davidson. This background will allow him to understand the needs of all groups on campus.

Experience at Auburn

Kuykendall is presently chairman of the religion department at Auburn University, where he has been recognized in the past for his leadership abilities. In 1981, Auburn faculty and students ousted the University’s president on grounds of incompetence. During the crisis, the faculty elected Kuykendall chairman of the Faculty Senate to represent them in the situation. For the Search Committee at Davidson, this incident demonstrated Kuykendall’s ability to work under difficult circumstances.

Kuykendall also is well respected among Auburn residents. Neil Davis, a columnist for the Auburn Bulletin & The Lee County Eagle, said of Kuykendall’s selection as Davidson’s next president, “John Kuykendall’s biographical summary is studded with information that affirms the honor that is his today. What it does not say is what he means to Auburn — gown and town. That can only be recounted by talking with colleagues and friends who have benefitted from their associations with him and who have come to know his warm human qualities and the absolute integrity of his character.”

Programs at home

Approaches to Teaching Writing
English as a Foreign Language
Government Internships
High School Programs
Intercultural Training
Interpretation and Translation Institute
Language Courses
Literary Criticism
Sacred Scripture Institute
Parish Workshop
Washington Laboratory
Writers Conference

Sessions

Pre— May 21-June 15
First—June 11-July 13
6-Week Second—July 16-August 17
8-Week Cross Session—June 11-August 3
8-Week Session—June 25-August 3

Georgetown University

Over 200 graduate and undergraduate courses

Georgetown University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action institution in employment and admissions.

Summer Sessions

Programs abroad

Dijon, France — French
Leningrad, U.S.S.R. — Russian
Oxford, England — Business Administration
Quito, Ecuador — Spanish
Fiesole, Italy — Italian
Trier, West Germany — German
Greece — Life and Thought in Ancient Greece

Send more information:

Name
Address
ZIP

Call (202) 625-8106 or mail to:
SSCE— Georgetown University
306 Intercultural Center
Washington, D.C. 20057