Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

4 Friday, March 16, 1984/The Davidsonian

Terry Warns Fourth Sentelle About Drug Usage

By DAVID VAN PELT

In reaction to reported drug use and noise, Dean of Students Will Terry sent a letter to residents on fourth
Sentelle warning them that the “situation will not be tolerated any longer.”

In the letter, Terry stated: “It has come rather forcefully to my attention in the last year that 4th Sentelle
is the center of heavy drug use, particularly, but not exclusively, ‘pot’. . . . I am asking campus security
to visit the hall regularly and to report to me the names of any persons disturbing their neighbors, drinking excessively,
or using any kind of drugs. Students found to be doing any of these things will be charged with a
code of responsibility violation which may include eviction from the dormitory, suspension from the college, or a charge of breaking
the law.”

“I hope none of these actions will be necessary, but I am not bluffing,” he added.

Terry’s warning to fourth Sentelle is part of his more direct emphasis on preventing drug use on campus. Terry decided
to act following a party on the night of February 16, after the Housing Office announced a ban on kegs
in residences. According to Terry, the party generated numerous complaints of noise and unruly activity on the hall.

“I heard a lot of complaints about fourth Sentelle, off and on, for quite a while,” he said. “It was
obviously a situation that had begun to get out of hand, and we had to bring it back in hand.”

After the party, Terry spoke with a

Trustees Discuss Campus Needs In February Meeting

By FRANCES PALMER

The Board of Trustees met on campus the weekend before Spring break. Topics on the agenda included approval of the
new president, security measures, a tuition increase, and campus office space problems.

In a closed session, the Trustees approved John W. Kuykendall from Auburn University as the new College President. The Board
“enthusiastically received” Kuykendall, according to Board Secretary Larry Dagenhart ’53. The Board unanimously approved Kuykendall.

SGA President Hunter Monroe presented a resolution to the Campus and Religious Life Committee to upgrade the emergency services of
the College through a better dispatch system. Monroe said he reported that the SGA is “not qualified” to make a
recommendation about what action the Board should take. Dagenhart and Monroe both pointed out that the College will obtain a
$30,000 grant on July 1 from the Duke Endowment for the purpose of improving the dispatch system. Monroe said he
was pleased about the grant because “I think everyone recognizes now that this is a priority issue.” Monroe said improved
security should also be a priority in budget planning. Dagenhart feels that “certainly the Trustees are anxious for a resolution
of the problem.”

The Trustees also approved tuition and fee increases for next year of 9.4 percent. According to the President's office, tuition
will go from $5770 to $6390, room rent was raised from $1010 to $1095, meals will cost $1045 and laundry
cost will remain $200 for a comprehensive fee of $9090 compared with $8305 last year.

Interim President Frontis Johnston reported office space problems around campus and cited examples such as housing, WDAV, faculty offices, and
the computer center. Although Dagenhart cannot remember if the Board made a definite decision, he commented “we

---were advised and recognize that we have some serious space problems around campus. We're just trying to figure out the
best thing to do.” He said they are exploring uses for the old post office as well as other spaces
downtown. Dagenhart also reported that the Trustees passed a resolution honoring the memory of biology professor Cynthia Grant.

_KING OF PIZZA_
663-3030
225 S. Broad St.
FAMILY NIGHT
Every Monday Night 5 To 10
BUY ONE PIZZA (ANY SIZE)
GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE FREE

A hall resident who had a keg in his room. According to the student, a warning to the entire hall
was chosen as an alternative to his eviction. “I felt they were singling me out as the only cause of
events I wasn’t the sole perpetrator of,” he said. Nevertheless, he said, “I think I had a productive conversation with
Dean Terry.”

While hall residents said the letter is being taken seriously, some complained that the hall has received an unfair reputation.
Several Fiji fraternity members on the hall said freshmen pledges have been discouraged from visiting the hall. “At least from
what they say, they have been verbally discouraged from coming up here,” said one. Many residents said that they had
not heard the complaints about their hall. “I think it’s really sad that none of the complaints of the last
two terms even came back to us,” one hall resident said.

Fourth Sentelle residents said the Administration has no direct evidence of drug use. Many considered Terry’s explicit warning of drug
use on fourth Sentelle as part of his renewed effort to control drugs on campus. Fourth Sentelle was the only
hall on campus warned by Terry. “The Dean’s Outbasket,” released this week, reflects Terry’s concern. A section of the newsletter
is devoted to a discussion of Davidson’s drug problem, which he claims has “escalated” this year. Terry presents two actions
to remedy the problem. “First, I am going to ask security to be on the lookout for any suspicions of
people selling drugs in any quantity and to report those persons to me. Second, I intend to involve parents more
frequently as I suspect students of using drugs,” Terry said in the notice. Terry also described plans to hold a
workshop on drugs, and to hire a counselor “whose primary emphasis will be on drug counseling.”

Typesetting Positions Available at Good Pay. Contact The Davidsonian at 892-2000 ext. 148 or 149.

---

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’™ bring this money-savin’ coupon.

STEAK & BISCUIT AND FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.78
Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due.
This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours only at participating Hardee's
Restaurants through May 31, 1984.
© 1983, Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.
