From The Locker Room
Friday, March 23, 1984 / The Davidsonian 11

IMAC Basketball: Whoops — We Almost Forgot
By STEVE BYERS

My apologies to all of you IMAC basketball stars who received no recognition in the paper last week. I had
assigned the article to Hunter Gourley, who found that IMAC “Czar” Steve Soud, alias Richard Nixon, had shredded all known
records of the tournament. But this event was simply too big to be stopped by such trivial obstacles, and we
just could not allow this opportunity — for cheap shots — to pass us by. We will try to present
an accurate overview of the tourney, but details and facts will be lacking.

Let’s start with the women’s tournament, where upsets ruled the day. Pre-season favorite Warner Hall, with junior bookend forwards Anne
Porges and Rebecca Bates, was surprised by the very talented, though erratic, Sisters, Inc., in the semi’s. It looked like
Dana Lemon and Anne Elliot were shoe-ins to lead their team to the championships but — horror of horrors —
a freshman team, First and Foremost, defeated Sisters, Inc., in the finals. Holly Gaston sparked the upstart squad in the
upset toward the league championship. Though they stumbled this season, look for big things out of Warner Hall next year
as Bates and Porges close out their careers.

In what can only be described as the Cinderella/N.C. State story of 1984, player-coach Steve (“shredder”) Soud led his Starcade
’83 squad into the finals of the men’s B-league tourney. How can you not like a team with Dave Flowers,
Dave (“A little dab’ll do you”) Snyder, the Rock, and Peter Burr (who?) on the roster? Thank goodness cooler heads
prevailed in the championship, as Pavlov's Dogs defeated Starcade rather convincingly behind the inside play of Tom Ratchford and Rich
DuBose. A special award goes out this year to freshman Marcus Allen, who did a beautiful imitation of Lorenzo Charles
in league play, complete with bulging muscles and intimidating snarl.

As always, though, the highlight of the IMAC tournament was found in men’s A-league action, where the KA’s Supreme Court
exacted revenge on the SAE’s in the semi’s (for a flickerball setback) and then cruised into the finals. The SAE
vs. KA semifinal was a war with more than a few frat members in attendance. Scott Brandon was the star
of the very talented Hard to Swallow, which had to beat an underrated BSC squad in order to play the
KA’s. The SAE’s were playing on borrowed time, however, for they had won this tourney last year on a last-second
scoop shot by Brandon, and the law of averages always evens things out.

The other semifinal paired the undefeated Penetrators, a freshman team, against Bye, a team composed of sophomores, juniors, seniors, independents,
PiKA’s, etc. Our own Hunter Gourley assembled this motley crew with the expressed purpose of breaking the KA/SAE stranglehold on
IMAC basketball, and they almost pulled it off. The Penetrators had already defeated Bye in the regular season, but the
playoffs proved to be another not-so-similar story. Chris (“the Hippie”) Roberts, Horace Manor, Joe Johnson, and Jim (Dr. Pump Fake)
Sowerby pounded the boards relentlessly and never really let the Penetrators get on a roll.

Like most hyped events, the championship showdown was disappointing and somewhat anticlimactic. The Supreme Court bolted out to an early
14-0 lead, and the game was never in much doubt after that. A late second-half spurt by Bye, spurred by
their defense, was a day late and a dollar short. Seniors Bill Satterwhite and Carl Rist, junior Scott “Fast Scotty”
Huie, and sophomores Chip Craig, Steve Dockery, and Grady Smith all played important roles for their team. Congratulations to Satterwhite
on his first IMAC title in four years after too many close-but-no-cigar finishes. (The KA’s were spared in that no
Phi Delt’s refereed their last few games, or surely a bronze medal would be hanging from their necks, not a
gold.)

Hunter and Steve's All-IMAC A-league team: Scott Brandon, Chip Craig, Chris Roberts, Carl Rist, and David Turner, with Bill Satterwhite
as our sixth man. Best newcomer: Mike Holt.

Quote of the week (dedicated to Morgan Ward): Kentucky is one coach short of a national championship. - Jim McConkey
assessing the Wildcat’s chances in theNCAA Tournament. Lacrosse Team Receives National Accreditation

By CHRIS HOLDEN

This spring has seen the blossoming of that Davidson stepchild we call club lacrosse. After being student-run over the past
years, the club has acquired a coach and is gaining considerable respect among southern rivals. Lacrosse is growing rapidly in
popularity in this region, and it appears that now is a good time for small schools like Davidson to establish
a lacrosse tradition in hopes of keeping abreast of the sport’s growth.

Lacrosse at Davidson is closest to varsity status in that practices are held daily, organization and outside sponsorship are good,
and turnout is consistent. Some sources maintain that southern lacrosse will soon rival lacrosse in the North. Davidson hopes to
ride that oncoming wave.

This year’s team leaders are Jay Norman, star goalie, and Minor Henson, sometimes star mid-fielder. This season, however, lacrosse has
a new twist. Jim Simon, former coach at San Diego State, recently relocated to the Charlotte area and contacted Norman
about coaching at Davidson. His arrival sparked new interest among team members, and he has been welcomed enthusiastically into the
ranks. Sideline observers report a fresh undercurrent of vigor in this year’s squad, and better results are predicted than in
recent years.

The team is now a fully accredited member of the United States Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association. Though not yet eligible for
post-season play, team members can be candidates for All-America selection, and the team’s weekly results will be published in the
USILA newsletter.

Competition this year has been called formidable, with such area goliaths on tap as Clemson, UNC’s club team, N.C. State,
and Auburn, following Georgia on a two-game road trip. Said team captain Norman, “Our schedule sounds tough, but that’s because
we try to play USILA teams in an attempt to add credibility to our program. We realize that athletic funding
is short, but we feel uncomfortable allowing the players to compete in such a dangerous sport without the benefit of
school-sponsored medical care. Not only can’t we get an ankle taped, we can't even get a roll of tape.”

The squad is confident, with more experience this year than in the past. Leadership should come not only from captains
Norman and Henson, but also from mid-fielders Bradley McCall, Clark Carter, and Thomas Evans, as well as seasoned attackmen Jerry
Meyer, Ed Lilly, and that beefy scoring machine Chris Holden. Newcomers to look for include freshmen defensemen Michael Holt and
mid-field threat Whitney Montgomery.

McKee And Gilmore to Try For Olympics

By ANDY BARRON

Davidson freshman Heather McKee will attend a field hockey Olympic Development Camp this summer in an effort to make the
1988 United States Olympic Team. In addition to McKee, junior Kara Gilmore and possibly one or two other players may
attend camps.

For McKee, attending camp this summer is a follow-up to a fall filled with honors. Along with five other Wildcats,
Heather was on the All-Deep-South squad. She also played on the All-Southeast team in a tournament in Baltimore, as well
as in a national tournament in Long Beach, California. McKee will attend camp at either Franklin and Marshall in Pennsylvania
or Towson State in Maryland.

“Heather is an excellent player,” field hockey coach Patty Daley said. “She is one of the strongest defensive players at
her age that I’ve ever seen. She should do very well at camp this summer.”

The Olympic Development Camps are divided into A, B, C, and D levels. The camps are located all over the
country. Approximately 80 players go to each camp. If a player does well at camp, she will advance to the
next level. The goal of the camps is to find the best players and give them the best possible training
in order to have a strong Olympic team.

“My goal this summer is to do well in ‘C’ camp and make it to the next camp, a ‘B’
camp,” said McKee. “If I keep improving, hopefully I will move up. My long-range goal is to make the 1988
Olympic team. That is a long way away, though. I’ll have to get a lot stronger, as well as improve,
to make the Olympic team.”
