Friday, September 21, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Quips And Cranks Hit With Budget Cuts

By LISA THOMAS

The Quips and Cranks staff is struggling to operate with a depleted budget without compromising the quality of this year’s
book, according to co-editor Kathleen Micham. She said the budget now contains a little more than enough money to pay
for the printing contract.

Last spring, Quips and Cranks submitted a budget request of $26,474.65 to the Activities Tax Council, a board which allots
funds from student activity fees to student-run organizations. Of this amount, the yearbook was granted $23,300. The staff petitioned for
more money and received an additional $1,300. Micham said the Council's re-evaluation of their decision showed that “they intended to
be fair.”

The $1,300 was originally allotted for a new photo enlarger and typewriter. Micham said the enlarger will be purchased. The
money for the typewriter, however, must go toward other necessities, even though none of the Quips and Cranks typewriters are
in adequate working condition.

The lowered budget will affect the final product in several ways, but Micham hopes the cutbacks will be “things that
the students will not notice.” According to Micham, the book will have a simpler cover and less color than last
year’s edition. The number of color photos and candids will be reduced and little or no spot color — tint
behind printed pages — will be used. The staff is also limiting duplicating notices.

Advisory Papers continued from page 1

“I told him [Kuykendall] to take these as submissions from various interest groups, not just as submissions,” Laughlin said. Aside
from articles outlining the history and purposes of various campus groups, subjects such as Patterson Court include “four or five
different submissions,” Laughlin said. “Every submission is unique in its own way.”

Laughlin said the papers are meant to give Kuykendall “an idea of the broad stands groups of people have been
taking. I can’t say it represents all student opinion,” he said. “I think you would be hard-pressed to find any
document that would do that.”

Other members of the committee include seniors Warren Gould and Tim McGaughey, and sophomores Chet Barksdale and Mark Sandy.

Self-Selection continued from page 1

He said the committee is now formulating procedural guidelines to be presented to campus fraternities. After hearing a complaint from
a freshman or fraternities, the committee first calls a hearing. It then investigates the matter and, if the complaint is
found valid, a representative from the concerned fraternity is invited to a hearing. The committee then decides if any punitive
action should be taken.

The committee consists of members from various campus fraternities. Aside from Jenkins and Hackett, the committee this year includes senior
Rob McCormick, a Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity member, junior Rusk member Monicah McGee, senior SAE Shep Robinson, and junior independent
Arienne Cheek.

According to Jenkins, freshmen will visit Patterson Court houses next week. Committee members will meet with freshman hall counselors Wednesday.
“We're really going to have to get communication between hall counselors and the Self-Selection Committee,” Jenkins said. Both he and
Hackett consider hall counselors the vital link in educating freshmen about self-selection. Jenkins said committee members will probably visit freshman
halls beginning October 1.and delivering all off-campus mailings by hand to save money. Micham said, “We are not even keeping
tape in the office. Everybody has to use their own tape to post notices.” No advertisements have yet been sold,
but the staff plans to expand the sales campaign. In the past, Quips and Cranks has given parents the opportunity
to send Valentine’s flowers to students. In addition to this fund-raising project, the staff is considering the possibility of providing
a passport photo service to students.

Along with budget problems, senior Mike Tantillo, business manager for the yearbook, resigned his position this week. According to Micham,
Tantillo offered to train someone to assume his position but there are no prospects at this time. Micham said she
will take over the bookkeeping responsibilities and her co-editor Jane Campbell will handle advertising and fundraising. “I am disappointed that
he decided to quit,” Micham said of Tantillo’s resignation. Tantillo declined to comment.

Project ’87 Task Force Ready
continued from page 1

The report will include a study of minority experiences at Davidson over the past 20 years and a broader look
at minority experiences in education throughout the United States. It will also give a clear statement of the purpose of
the College in the question of racial awareness at Davidson and suggestions of ways of achieving that purpose, Kuykendall said.
The members of the committee are: SGA President John Laughlin, seniors Janet Stovall and Atondra Williams, sophomore Andrew Yon; mathematics
Professor Bruce Jackson, psychology Professor John Kelton, French Professor Lauren Yoder, Spanish Professor J. Alberto Hernandez-Chiroldes, history Professor Malcolm Partin;
Dean of Students Will Terry, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid John Griffith, Vice-President of Academic Affairs and Dean of
Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann, Associate Dean of Admissions and Students Paula Miller; Daniel G. Clodfelter '72, Dan S. LaFar,
Jr. '61, Calvin E. Murphy '70; and Trustees Thelma Adair, John A. Mawhinney, Jr. and J. Randolph Taylor.

Kuykendall Takes Office
continued from page 1

need to be around campus.” He enjoys attending college sporting events, as will be clear, he says, by his regular
attendance at the football games. He particularly enjoys what he calls “the sports people don’t care about” — the non-revenue
sports such as baseball. At Auburn, where the university’s football team spent several years on NCAA probation, Kuykendall felt skeptical
of college athletics. He views the professionalization of college athletics with “sorrow and reservation, with respect to higher academics.”

Kuykendall is amused by the simultaneous notoriety and anonymity which he has encountered here. Either people know that he is
the president, or they are oblivious to his importance to the Davidson community, something that Kuykendall says is fine with
him. “I’m willing to be a representative of Davidson College in everything I do. After all, I work for Davidson
College. But it's my being a personification of the College that I'm not comfortable with. We ought to just be
a part of this community. We don't expect special treatment.”

Kuykendall seems to have a clear perception of where he can fit into the Davidson Community. He intends to be
in touch with the students: “I hope that's something that will develop very naturally.”

First Union National Bank
P.O. Box 39
Davidson
Cornelius
Huntersville
