Friday, October 19, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Panel Discusses European View Of America
By BO TAYLOE

“With all your resources, how is it possible that all you could find was a peanut farmer and a B-movie
actor?” This question, according to Barbara Wojhoski and a panel discussing the foreign perception of American politics, exemplifies the European
view of the American electoral process. Wojhoski and five faculty members comprised the panel, which met at the Open Luncheon
Wednesday.

Political Science Professor Lewis Ortmayer opened the discussion by describing the view of the foreign press and concluded with comments
on the East European perspective. Political Science Professors Brian Shaw and James Hollifield focused on France while German Professor Douglass
Stott and Wojhoski discussed German views.

Ortmayer related a tendency among foreigners to prefer the challenger over the incumbent President while expecting the President to win.
According to the “Survey of World Press,” Ortmayer said 79 percent of the major foreign editors polled predicted Ronald Reagan
would win. A majority of the editors stated also that their countrymen preferred Walter Mondale. The two most important issues,
media leaders said, consisted of the lack of agreement on arms control and the deficit of the U.S. government.

The panelists concurred that the election has impact abroad. They said foreigners may not understand the American electoral process, but
they have an opinion about it. “The concerns of various political parties converge on the issue of East-West dialogue,” Wojhoski
said, in a “life or death urgency.” The maintenance of peace supersedes all other issues for West Germans. The American
economy stands as the second major concern in the election for the West Germans, according to Wojhoski. Referring to interest
rates, she said “they feel like they have kept their economy in bounds and we haven't.”

The American “cult of personality” amazes the French, who “think we do a very poor job in selecting leaders,” Hollifield
said. French political candidates are highly trained, he explained, and the French do not understand how men with the background
of Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan can be elected. The French view politics cynically and wonder how the Americans can
force one of their few capable Presidents to resign over an issue such as Watergate, he added.

“People are concerned overwhelmingly with the issue of war and peace,” Shaw said. “The French are not convinced that Reagan
is the best man for peace.” Hollifield disagreed. He asserted that...

The Davidson debate team prepares to deny that “America deserves Reagan” during Tuesday’s public debate.

Project Match Tests Attitudes
(continued from page 1)

...the entering freshman classes of the past four years, using interviews and a questionnaire which he devised. The Class of
'86 was tested again in its sophomore year, he said. The Learning Context Questionnaire (LCQ) consists of 50 questions (such
as “For every problem there exists one solution,” and “Asking questions is more important than finding answers”) and six levels
of agreement, from “strongly agree” to “strongly disagree.” Griffith conducted more extensive interviews with a more limited scope of students,
he said, which covered the same general concepts. He described students as “very cooperative” in the study. Students received the
LCQ forms in the mail, he said, and 90 percent responded. While he considers it premature to draw conclusions from
the study, he said the attitudes of Davidson students appear “typical of bright, highly motivated students.”

Project Match’s Faculty Steering Committee consists of psychology Professor Ruth Ault, English Professor Frank Bliss, French Professor Everett Jacobus, psychology
Professor John Kelton, biology Professor Don Kimmel, and philosophy Professor Earl MacCormac. Griffith said each professor has pursued his or
her own research within the study.

Kimmel said he modified his Biology 21 class last spring to represent more accurately the scheme of intellectual development created
by psychologist William Perry, which is the foundation of Project Match. According to Kimmel, Perry’s scheme has numerous levels of
intellectual growth on which people move from lower to progressively higher levels. From an acquiescent trust of authority, for example,
we gradually develop our critical and analytical faculties.

Kimmel said he familiarized his Biology 21 students with the Perry scheme, and adjusted his lectures, tests, and study groups
to examine it in the classroom. Students were asked to keep a journal of their impressions of the course, he
said, and on tests “I asked them a short series of questions about the questions in the test.” He said
his efforts resulted in a “fair evaluation of students in the course of a term.” He said he is currently
using the Perry scheme in an experimental biology course.

According to Ault, Project Match derives its name from the attempt to “match” each student to his or her own
level of intellectual development. She said she structured a seminar course last year to allow students either to construct their
own plan of study or follow one which she devised. Final grades for the two groups approximately equalled each other,
she said, which offered evidence that the two groups chose the proper level of development.That because of their fear of
the Russians, the French supported Reagan’s deployment of medium-range nuclear weapons. According to Hollifield, the biggest issue of the election
for the French was the economy. France’s recent economic shift to the right might reflect expectations that Reagan will be
re-elected, he said. Soviet citizens are receiving “better information than ever before” about the American electoral process, Ortmayer said, and
they are “very worried about the East-West arms race.” The Soviet press has distinguished between the government and the American
public in the past, he added, in order to stress common characteristics between the Soviet and the American people. For
the first time, however, the Soviet press is now casting America as a whole in an anti-Soviet light. “Speaking about
the election is synonymous with speaking about Reagan,” Stott said, describing the East German view of American politics. “What bothers
them about Reagan is that he is making the Russians antsy. Rhetoric is getting a lot of attention, and they
are afraid that the rhetoric is going to spark something.” The East Germans are concerned with an “ostentatious pro-Americanism, almost
a hysteria,” they associate with what “Reagan expresses,” he said. Shaw pointed out that the French regarded American behavior at
the summer Olympics as “ugly nationalism as opposed to patriotism.” West Germans view Americans as “people who place a lot
of emphasis on image,” Wojhoski said. She added that the Germans “are uncertain if we are extremely naïve or if
we are so cynical that we present this democratic process for the public at large while people in the backstage
are pulling the strings.”

Women’s Committee Seeks ‘Positive Approach’
By ROXANNA GUILFORD

Now in its third year as an official Union committee, the Women’s Concerns Committee has established itself as a facilitator
of discussion, information, and various student activities. This year, senior Elizabeth Laughlin heads the committee. Her co-vice-chairmen are junior Mary
Beth Harding and senior Ellen Papadeas. Senior David Sisk, the only male member of the committee, edits the newsletter which
he sees as an “open forum for the entire campus” rather than simply a reflection of the WCC's views. At
the first meeting this term, Laughlin said, the committee established three objectives for the year: “First, to present a positive
approach to living as a woman, secondly, to provide access to resources for women, and finally to become a resource
ourselves.” Both Laughlin and Sisk emphasized that the WCC is open to the entire campus. “We have tried to reach
a broader range of people,” Laughlin said. “In targeting our programs, we hope to make a greater number of people
interested and involved.” Sisk said “everyone at Davidson is invited to join, or just come and listen, it is not
a militant feminist club.” Activities planned for this term include a debate between regional female representatives from the Mondale and
Reagan camps. Sisk pointed out that these are key women in the campaigns, and not “flunkies off the street.” A
panel of four members will receive prepared questions, and political science Professor Mary Thornberry will moderate the event. There will
be an opportunity for audience questions as well. The debate is tentatively scheduled for Oct. 31. Next Wednesday, the WCC
will sponsor a “Coffee and Cokes” in the Chambers gallery. Also in the works are programs on the feminization of
poverty, self-defense for men and women, and car maintenance for men and women. In addition, Sisk soon hopes to have
the semi-monthly newsletter distributed door to door. Right now, anyone can pick one up in the Union, he said. The
WCC formed in the 1982-83 school year under Sherburne Laughlin '82. She was followed by Papadeas, whose term expired last
spring. Meetings are held every other week, usually at 9 p.m. on Mondays in the Big Screen Room.

Humes Receives Grant
(continued from page 1)

Israel. Religion Professor Max Polley, director of first-year Humanities, said the team “was concerned about the speed [at which] we
go through the material,” and decided to spend more time on The Odyssey, and the Greek and medieval art periods.
Polley said the in-class writing workshops incorporated into the program have “improved the students’ writing tremendously.” The new emphasis on
writing “seems to be what sold the program to the NEH,” he said. Polley said the team differed on whether
the course should cover certain areas and periods in-depth or continue to give equal attention to a broad range of
topics. He said the present curriculum falls in between the two extremes. “We drop into one area in depth [such
as The Odyssey] without pulling it out of historical context,” while studying sufficient material preceding and following the in-depth topic,
Polley said. In past years, he said, the course has treated each period of history equally. Asked how the school
can measure the effects of the curriculum changes, Polley said surveys completed by juniors and seniors, and graduates are helpful.
Feedback from other professors, he added, helps to determine if Humanities students are well-prepared, or slipping, as they pursue their
majors.
