6 Friday, September 14, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Adjusters Deny SPE’s Use Of Main Street House

continued from page 1

uses of property which do not conform to the purpose for which that property is zoned. The section of North Main Street containing the SPE house is zoned for residential use, not for use by fraternities.

5-E gives the adjustors three criteria to use:
- the nonconforming use is not detrimental to the health or safety of the inhabitants, neighbors, or general public.
- the use does not reduce neighborhood property values, or affect the use of neighboring properties;
- the use does not substantially differ from the use for which the area is zoned.

An unfavorable decision on any one of the criteria would deny any extension. Currie said the adjustors found SPE in violation of all three criteria. He said health of residents due to sleep loss caused by traffic and noise concerned the adjustors; property values of adjoining land were reduced; and the use differed substantially enough to warrant denying an extension.

The adjustors took into account contentions by SPE that special situations like the fraternity’s were common in most college towns, and that the fraternity house was not in use year-round, Currie said.

SPE requested a hearing by the Board of Adjustment in April, according to board chairperson Bob Currie. The Adjusters realized then that the use of the Main Street residence as a fraternity house violated a 1976 zoning ordinance. Though a grandfather clause in that rule allowed the fraternity to remain, the clause expired in 1981. The ordinance required SPE to give up the house or request an extension.

The Sigma Phi Epsilon house

Eyes Patterson Court

continued from page 1

SPE system, according to MacMillan. “We're pleased with the way Patterson Court is operating now,” he said. The fraternity moved off campus in 1971 with the advent of self-selection. The SPE national organization then required all chapters to maintain a selective membership policy. Over the years, however, the national organization has come to allow each chapter to operate in a way compatible with the guidelines of each particular college, MacMillan said.

Dean of Students Will Terry said he had talked informally with MacMillan and a member of the SPE alumni board to arrange guidelines for the fraternity’s return to campus. Terry said he had asked MacMillan for a written request outlining “how they're going to conduct their program here.” Terry said he will forward that request to the Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL). The CCRL would review it and make a recommendation to President John Kuykendall, who would make the final decision, according to Terry.

Athletic Director

continued from page 1

John Kuykendall, said the director will also be extensively involved with fundraising for the athletic program. He will also need to be “sensitive to the operation of athletics.” Love added that it is “success that is important — winning is not the primary objective.” Both Stroud and Love concurred that Coach Farrell had held two positions that were simply too much for any one individual.

When asked if he considered remaining full-time director, Farrell replied, “No. Coaching is my first love. I have not had, nor do I have any intentions of becoming an A.D.” He said that at age 50, “if I have not done it by now [become an A.D.], I don’t really foresee it in my future.”

Both the Richmond News Leader and The Charlotte Observer reported that Terry Holland ’59, once head basketball coach here, and the present coach of the University of Virginia’s team, had declined Davidson’s offer to become athletic director. Holland stated in the News Leader article (Sept. 7, 1984) that as coach at Davidson he had indeed sought such a position. Now, however, he said, “I know it [becoming an A.D.] seems like the next logical step, but this is so hard to think about right now.” Stroud felt that it was inappropriate to comment on who the committee was considering.for the position. The Observer reported that Kuykendall, a classmate of Holland’s, had asked him to take the position. Stroud and Love denied that Davidson offered the position to Holland. Kuykendall said no one has been offered the position and said he has talked with Holland in the past concerning athletics here, but did not offer him the position of athletic director.

Peggy Pierotti

The grandfather clause by the Adjustors. SPE did not request a hearing, but the town took no action, Currie said. Last March, however, North Main Street residents asked the town Planning Board to deny fraternal organizations the right to use houses in residential areas. Town attorney Richard Kline said the adjustors found the Fiji house to fall under a different section of the ordinance. The Beaty Street building was built as a fraternity house, and the adjustors said it should be allowed to remain in use, Kline said. Kline said the town plans no further action affecting the Fijis.

New Professors Arrive

This article is the first in a series on Davidson’s new professors.

By ANDREA DIEDRICH

One of the new professors at Davidson this year is a familiar face in the community. Mrs. Rosemary Raynal has lived in Davidson for the past five years. She may look familiar to many students because she is the wife of Charles Raynal, the minister at Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Mrs. Raynal began teaching here as a part of the freshmen writing task force. She teaches a section of English 21, English Composition.

Mrs. Raynal is from Elkin, N.C. and received her B.A. from the University of North Carolina at Greensboro. She received her M.A. in English from Southeastern Louisiana University. She has extensive teaching experience. She taught high school English for one year in Ashland, Va., and then for three years in New Haven, Ct. She taught writing at Southeastern Louisiana for five years and then moved to Davidson. After teaching writing and humanities at Central Piedmont Community College in Charlotte for five years, Mrs. Raynal joined the faculty here.

Aside from spending time with her husband and their two children and teaching, Mrs. Raynal has other interests. A hobby of hers is splitting oak trees and making them into baskets. She also enjoys cooking and reading.

Professor Richard Neidinger

The new professor in the Mathematics department this year is Dr. Richard Neidinger. Neidinger is originally from St. Louis, but he received his undergraduate degree in math and physics from Trinity University in San Antonio, Tx. He earned his M.A. and Ph.D. in math from the University of Texas at Austin.

Neidinger came to Davidson because of his desire to teach at a school with high academic standards that equally supports teaching and research. He and his wife Barbara, a C.P.A. at Ernst & Whinney, decided they would prefer to live south of the North Carolina-Virginia border. After adjusting from big-city living in Austin, Neidinger has found Davidson to be a “beautiful community,” and he “likes the personal atmosphere.” He finds the honor code especially appealing after coming from a school without one. “You feel you can trust everyone more. I really believe in it,” he said.

Neidinger’s personal interests include racquetball and sailing. He and his wife are active Presbyterians and plan to attend Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

She's determined to change hers by getting an education. And the more she loves to learn, the more he learns how to love.

Sometimes students end up being the best teachers.

COLUMBIA PICTURES Presents AN ACORN PICTURES Production A LEWIS GILBERT Film MICHAEL CAINE * JULIE WALTERS “EDUCATING RITA” Music by DAVID HENTSCHEL Music Produced by JOHN GILBERT Co-Produced by WILLIAM P. CARTLIDGE Screenplay by WILLY RUSSELL Produced and Directed by LEWIS GILBERT

© 1983 COLUMBIA PICTURES INDUSTRIES, INC.