4 Friday, October 26, 1984 / The Davidsonian

An Interview With Ambassador Jack Perry

Editor's note: David McGee conducted this interview with Ambassador Jack Perry, the Rusk Endowment Professor, two weeks ago. Following are
Perry's comments, edited for clarity.

By DAVID McGEE

The Davidsonian: Why should a student today be interested in international affairs? What are some of the incentives for someone
to take international affairs courses?

Perry: What is there about international education that recommends itself to the ordinary student? I'd like to address that on
two levels. First, it is supposed to teach you to grasp the world that you live in, and I believe
it’s almost impossible in the 1980s and the rest of this century to understand our times and country if we
don’t understand the whole world. There are a lot of clichés about the neighborhood village and about the shrunken planet
and all these things. They are clichés, but they happen to be true.

Another aspect is what about international studies is relevant to the job, the career, and the profession? I am going
to be courageous enough to take the stand: it is relevant, and that whether you're going to be a doctor,
a lawyer, a minister, a teacher, or whatever, you need more knowledge of international affairs and of the world as
a whole than was true a few years ago. And I'm going to argue that a doctor, even if he
looks at eye, ear, nose, and throat 18 hours a day in Charlotte, is still going to have an international
side to his profession. For one thing, he’s going to need to know what's going on around the world in
medicine. In Stockholm, they're probably doing something in his field that he needs to know about, or in Moscow, Paris,
or Tokyo. If he’s a lawyer, it’s very likely that he’s going to get to some extent into international practice
or be touched by international practice. The world economy is so tied together that it’s simply impossible to function domestically
without functioning internationally. So you tie all of that together and I think you've got professional as well as liberal
arts reasons for acquiring an international education.

But I'd like to add one other thing. Having been in Washington all those years and watched how this country
functions in trying to devise a foreign policy, I think that every educated American citizen has got a heavy responsibility
to try to be a functioning citizen, who can vote and comment and debate intelligently on foreign policy issues. Our
foreign policy is made in the most haphazard manner imaginable in Washington. We have no strategy. We sort of stumble
along every four years on a new path. Given the dangers of the nuclear era, given the environmental hazards to
the planet, given the terrible problems that the international economy faces, I think the United States has got to have
a more coherent foreign policy and I think educated young Americans are the ones that are going to have to
make it more coherent.

Are businesses and corporations these days putting more emphasis on international departments or international relations with other countries they do
business with?

I think it’s fair to say that the American economy — say since World War II — has been internationalized
to a great extent. I don’t know whether there are 10 times as many jobs for international specialists now as
there were 10 or 20 years ago — I don’t know the statistics. But my general feeling, and I think
this could be backed up, is that there are many more multi-national corporations, there are many more businesses that have
to have an international component. I think the number of jobs within the different corporations and banks and so forth
bearing on international affairs or with an international component is certainly growing and will continue to grow.

Tell us some of your immediate thoughts or plans for the Rusk program in international studies.

Well, I had the pleasure last week of talking to Dean Rusk [’31] for an hour in Athens — and
I must say it’s an inspiration to talk to him — and he liked the idea of the program very
much. His own conviction is that this generation of students has got some terrible choices and some terrible questions to
worry about. He named several of them: from arms control to the pollution of the planet to energy resources and
all sorts of things that must be faced. He said that this generation has got to have an international education.
Sort of taking off from that, after all, as Dean Rusk’s name and his inspiration that is the starting point
for our program, the main thing I want to do is get every student at Davidson that...I can get excited
about international affairs, interested in it, excited. If you want to get right down to specifics about what we’re going
to do, the faculty, the international education committee of the faculty, has been working on a number of splendid ideas,
it seems to me, for what to do with international education at Davidson. Obviously, all the programs that are in
place, as far as some new courses that are international in content. One thing that I think is very commendable
that the faculty has proposed and I hope goes into effect for next year is a program whereby all freshmen
would take a course called “Introduction to International Studies/Affairs,” or some title like it, which would begin in the winter
quarter and would go for a whole year. It would be a general introduction to global problems, to one area
to be studied in particular, and this course would be taken by everybody. I'm a receptor, a listening device right
now and anybody that has any ideas I’m wide open to hear them and I hope many students will come
forward with some ideas.

Would you tell us a bit about your background?

I was born in Atlanta in 1930, went to boys high school in Atlanta, which is the alma mater of
Dean Rusk. And then I went to Mercer University which is in Macon, GA. Then I went into the army
where I learned Russian and got onto the international track a little bit. In 1954, I got out of the
army and spent a couple of years working as a journalist for the Associated Press. And then I went to
graduate school at Columbia in New York and some years later got my Ph.D. in Political Science and International Relations
in Soviet Affairs and somewhere along the way got my M.A. and certificate from the Russian Institute. So I’m a
product of area studies in a sense, and that’s something I’m interested in here at Davidson: concentration on area studies.
Then after Columbia, I went into the foreign service and spent 24 years mostly in Soviet affairs. I served in
three foreign communist countries: Moscow in the 60s, Prague in the 70s, and then Bulgaria from 1979 to 1981, where
I served as ambassador under the Carter administration and the first months of the Reagan administration. Then I went to
The Citadel in Charleston for a year as diplomat in residence, retired, and joined the faculty two years ago.

Perry: I'm greatly honored to be coming to Davidson. It has an enormously high reputation. The thing that I like
about it is that it is a real, old-fashioned liberal arts college that still believes in liberal arts. That’s what
I believe in, and at the same time I believe the world is in a heck of a mess. I
don’t like to be a pessimist, because my nature is optimistic. Most diplomats are optimistic almost professionally. But since I’ve
gotten out of the foreign service and have seen how much apathy there is among so many Americans about the
world situation, all the different aspects of it — the little wars that are going on all over the world,
the nuclear danger, the environmental danger, the threat to the world economic system, protectionism — all those things. There’s a
lot of apathy about that and I really have a conviction that young people that are graduating from Davidson can
make a difference. I think we need a new generation to take charge and come up with some new ways
of solving the world’s problems, and I hope we can produce some of those under this program here at Davidson.

On the primary level, a liberal arts education is supposed to teach you to grasp the world that you live
in, and I believe it’s almost impossible in the 1980s and the rest of this century to understand our times
and country if we don’t understand the whole world. As far as I’m concerned, all the programs that are in
place will probably be continued. I mean, there are some good things going on — as you know the program
at Cambridge, the England summer, the year abroad programs, the South Asia program — all of these things, the other
semesters in Spain, and so forth, all of those are awfully good. Davidson needs more foreign professors on the campus,
perhaps more foreign students, more opportunities for students to go abroad, perhaps for briefer tours, some new professors added to
the faculty in international affairs.

Month 28036 892-7521 — Pita Bread Sandwiches To Go — Whole Wheat Bagels — Wine and Beer Specials of the
NO TRICKS, JUST TREATS! Trissy Lomax, owner 128 S. Main St. Davidson, N.C. UNITED BANK CAROLINA I-77 at Hwy 73
Cornelius/Lake 137 N. Main St. Davidson 892-7815 Norman 892-7805
