14 Friday, October 26, 1984/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Production Manager
Kevin Horan, Business Manager
Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor
Will Thomason, Advertising Manager

Perceptions

Whispered criticism and quiet cynicism can only damage the Honor Code and the benefits, both ethical and practical, it presents
to Davidson students. That is why Dean Terry has requested that suggestions for changing the Code of Disciplinary Procedure be
presented in writing and with a signature. Too often, students give credence to rumors and falsehoods generated, in part, by
the lack of openness in the Honor system. Misconceptions arise which are the fault of both the students who hear
these rumors and the Honor Council which, to some degree, creates them. Council officers are indeed willing to answer questions,
and students are indeed willing to ask. Usually, however, the questions students want to ask and the ones council members
want to answer differ.

Rumors arise after specific hearings. Something accidentally escapes the Dean’s office or the hearing room that is partly fact and
partly misconception. A student brings this to the attention of a member of the Honor Council who is more than
willing to talk about the Code or procedure in general terms. But since this question concerns a specific case, the
Council member is forced to say, “I can’t answer that.” The Council member can only give an unsatisfactory, general answer.
The student asking the question then feels as if the Council member is stonewalling the question, or at worst, attempting
to deceive. So a divergence occurs between two important aspects of the Code: the public perception of justice so necessary
for the Code to work, and the necessity for the council to maintain the integrity of its decisions, it being
the only body to have fully reviewed the evidence. The Honor Council cannot be allowed to become a clique; neither
can it be allowed to become a circus. This, then, is a dilemma that the SCC and the Honor Council
ought to address when they look at procedure; it is a theoretical problem that may underlie most of the perceived
procedural problems.

Pet Peeves

And speaking of criticism, we’ve decided some things about this place really bother us. Among them:
— Professors who not only run classes five minutes after the bell, but do it three days in a row.
— People who walk 3 abreast up the stairs in Chambers, as if the world weren’t coming to an end
and as if we weren’t five minutes late to class.
— Worthy causes in the middle of Chambers.
— People who put their books in your study carrel as if they own the place.
— The closing time beeper in the library.
— The library.
— Peregrine House doesn’t deliver off campus.
— The Union has discontinued pistachio almond ice cream.
— No matter where you are in the Union, you can hear pool balls bouncing on the ceiling.
— The physical plant applies white fog wherever you walk in the morning.

Ross Holt, Editor

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of
the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates.
Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Ted Wilson, Assistant News Editor; Ginger Broaddus, Richard Cloudt, Andrea Diedrich, Chris Fisher, Roxanna Guilford, Tom Schilling, Chandon
Sinlia, Lee White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson, Chris Hughes, Jill Boyette

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Craig Detweiler, Thurston Hatcher, Stephen Mank, Ann Meador, Matt Morris, Samuel Scott, Treeby Williams, Andrew Wilson

Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Assistant Sports Editor; Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley

Photography Staff: Brad Brechtelsbauer, Jill Boyette, Phillip Dennis, Christian Harberts, Kevin Horan, Warriner Inge, Rocky Kmiecik, Bruce von Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Joanneke Brentjens, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Brooke Knight, Pauline Rhodes

Compositors: Bobby Downie, Mitch Hall, Anne Lambert, Lisa Lano, Martha Yeide

Circulation: David McCurry, Manager

LETTERS

Open Hearing

To the Editors:

Looks like the issues raised by our recent open honor council hearing will come and go with the same sense
of resignation that we use to address so many issues here in our red brick haven. Yes, we have all
formed our private opinions based either on firsthand or “hearsay” evidence and filed them, for the most part, under “case
closed due to lack of interest.” Here, they share space with a lot of other Davidson issues that belong there.
I believe, however, that the problems with the Honor System raised byThis hearing deserves our serious, constructive scrutiny. I am
not going to attempt that in this letter; others have already outlined the defects sufficiently. I would simply suggest two
things. Firstly, we are all in the dark concerning the philosophy and machinations of this secret court that presumably serves
us so well. My own opinions, based on firsthand observation of the hearing, changed radically once I talked with some
of the System’s key players. Davidson students need to know how the System really works and something of the philosophy
it is based on in order to decide whether it is best suited to our dear alma mater. Secondly, there
is apparently a committee in the works (another “shadowy” committee!) to give the System a “once-over.” As a student body
which has come to a general consensus that our System—the one that preserves our collective integrity—has some serious flaws, it
is important that we press for the formation of this committee, demand its membership be balanced and objective, supply it
with our input, and examine the conclusions rendered. There really are not too many issues at Davidson that affect everyone
and are of truly serious stuff. This is one of them, and we should pursue it as such.

Keith Evans

To the Editors:

Ever since I first heard Bob Dylan tell me that “the times they are a-changin’,” I’ve had a special place
in my hierarchy of heroes for folk singers—particularly that idealistic breed born out of the social and political revolutions of
the 1960s. Who shed no tear when Joan Baez sang about “Billy Rose?” Who felt no shame when Dylan reminded
us of Medgar Evers? Who did not sense hope when Lennon imagined that there was no heaven? Who did not
feel disgust when Neil Young described “Southern Man,” or when Neil Young spoke of “Tin Soldiers and Nixon Coming,” or
when Neil Young... Ah, but it is now 1984, and the times they have a-changed. Dylan—who knows if he ever
cared? Joan Baez—she maintains that she had no right to protest against Vietnam. Lennon—he’s been shot. And Neil Young—it seems
as if he gave up his search for a heart of gold and settled for one of steel. I read
in the paper the other day that Neil “born to live on Sugar Mountain” Young publicly supports Ronald Reagan... God
help us. Perhaps a new anthem is in order:

Neil Young and Reagan coming
We're finally on our own
This summer I heard the drumming
More dead in Lebanon
More dead in Lebanon
More dead in Lebanon...

(With apologies to Crosby, Stills, Nash, and Young.)

William B. Naso

The Dean of Students is soliciting from students suggestions for the Code of Disciplinary Procedure (Honor Council procedure). Please put
your suggestions in writing, sign them, and turn them into the Dean’s office or give them to John Laughlin. The
suggestions will be reviewed by the Student Conduct Council and the Honor Council. There will be further opportunity for interested
students to discuss those proposals after the Councils’ review. Copies of the Code may be obtained from the Dean of
Students Office. Thank you in advance for suggestions and cooperation.

The Davidsonian “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions
articles on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community. We adhere to these guidelines:
1) We require that all articles be in our hands at 7 p.m. Monday.
2) We accept typed articles and those written legibly, double-spaced.
3) We require that opinions be signed. We will print unsigned articles only if compelling reason exists for withholding the
author’s name, and the author is known to either the editor or executive editor.
4) We will not edit opinions for style or content but we reserve the right to edit for rules of
common English. We will inform the author of substantial changes.
5) Since space for Opinions articles is limited, we reserve the right to select articles from those we receive for
publication. We will attempt to print any article we withhold from publication for space reasons the next week.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere to
these four guidelines:
1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2) We require that letters be neatly typed.
3) We require that letters be signed and include the author's phone number and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.
4) We reserve the right not to print letters that a) function as advertisements; b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or
inside jokes; c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in other letters printed on the same topic.
