Friday, September 14, 1984 / The Davidsonian

OPINIONS

Is God A Republican?
David Resnik

Most Americans would be surprised to learn that God is a Republican.
— Walter Mondale, September 6, 1984

I’ve heard people say that one should avoid discussing politics or religion. But both together at once? Well, like it or not, people have been discussing politics and religion a lot these days as a result of President Ronald Reagan’s and former Vice-President Walter Mondale’s recent exchange of rhetoric on the issue. Reagan breathed new life into this perennial debate in a Dallas morning prayer speech during the week of the Republican Convention. He tittered his way through a politics and religion argument and proudly ordained that “religion and politics are necessarily related.”

I admit that there are historic and social connections between politics and religion and that the two kinds of institutions may not be separable. But this fact provides no good reason for breaking all walls between the church and the state. We should try to keep politics and religion separate even though we may not be entirely successful. My strategy in this essay will be as follows: first, I will attack Reagan’s conclusion and provide my own opinion, then I will attack his argument.

Though no wall divides the church and the state, the United States Constitution stipulated some separation between the two agencies. The First Amendment states that Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the exercise thereof. This amendment leaves room for some religion in politics; all it prevents is an official state religion (i.e., Iran). It allows the state to undertake various religious practices, such as making people swear on the Bible, or to adopt various religious beliefs, such as “In God we trust” (our national motto). Most people don’t agree with our government’s current religious practices, since they reflect a concern for procedure and tradition more than anything else. But an increase in the ties between the church and the state might prove unpopular and dangerous.

When Reagan claims that politics and religion are necessarily related, I take him to mean that the two institutions ought to influence each other. But if we let religion have an overly active role in politics or vice-versa, we will limit political and religious freedom. I believe very strongly in freedom of choice in politics and religion. This freedom includes the right to choose one’s faith (or lack of it) without feeling political persecution and the right to hold political beliefs without fear of religious retribution. I see no crucial difference between legal and social persecution. As long as one’s actions and beliefs are limited, freedom of choice will be as well. Even if Reagan legislates no religious laws, his use of religious rhetoric in politics will create social and personal pressures that are tantamount to legal restrictions.

Should all good Christians support Reagan? Is God a Republican? Are those Christians who do not support Reagan bad Christians? Should we disregard any atheist’s political views? If you insist on mixing politics and religion (the Christian religion), then your answer should be “yes” to all these questions.

Reagan’s own argument in favor of a strong connection between politics and religion was as follows:
1) Politics is based on morality.
2) Morality is supported/justified by religion.
3) Therefore, religion is the basis of politics.

The argument, as I have formulated it, is not valid. But even if it could be made valid, I would still call attention to the following objections. Even if one agreed that politics is based on morality, this does not entail a commitment to a specific morality. Different moral systems could support the same political system. For example, Eskimos and Alaskan oil-workers have entirely different moralities, yet they live under the same laws. The same argument applies to the connection between morality and religion. One may agree that religion supports morality without specifying a particular morality. For example, an atheist and a born-again Christian could have identical moralities for entirely different reasons. So Reagan has supplied us with an argument for political tolerance of different religious and moral systems; since so many different religious and moral views support the same political system, we should regard them as political equals.

But has Reagan been preaching tolerance? It would hardly seem so. Reagan has been seeking the support of the American Coalition for Traditional Values (ACTV), a radical born-again Christian group led by Jerry Falwell, Jim Bakker, and 28 other television preachers. The ACTV is conducting a voter registration drive to counter Jesse Jackson's efforts. The ACTV’s goals are to register 2 million voters by November, reelect Reagan, and have a firm grip on the Republican Party by 1988.

Regardless of what position you take on Reagan's record on economic or foreign policy, you must question his insistence on mixing politics and religion. If he is using religion as a mere political football, then you should question his sincerity. If he really believes his rhetoric, then you must question what limits he would put on religious freedom, political freedom, and other civil rights. (With a handful of Supreme Court positions soon to be open, civil rights could be an important issue). America has always regarded itself as the land of the free and a land of God. We can be both, but only if we restrict ties between the church and the state.

Resnik, a Davidsonian Editor Emeritus, is a senior philosophy major from Chapel Hill.Hill, N.C. Playing Only To Win Destroys Game
Mike Stephens

Over spring break last year, I discovered, along with half a billion other consumers, the game Trivial Pursuit. Without actually purchasing a game (more due to the fact that I could not find it in any of the stores I checked than to my lack of desire to buy one), I managed to participate in the game several times before returning to Davidson. After classes resumed, I was not privileged to play Trivial Pursuit again for the remainder of the school year, but I held the game in very high regard in my memory. As a matter of fact, I waited anxiously for a chance to once more try my luck at this newfound academic challenge.

The year ended, and I went home. For a long time, I didn’t get to play, and my hunger for a chance increased. I have long been interested in trivia, so Trivial Pursuit offered me an opportunity to combine both the challenge of attempting to pick the dark recesses of my brain for little-known and little-needed facts and the luck, or lack thereof, needed to throw the required numbers with the single, yet so powerful, die.

Finally, toward the end of the summer, I received an invitation to play amongst some friends who were also fans of this now not-so-new game. They, however, owned a board. Not knowing what I was getting myself into, I agreed to play. The time was set, and I went to their house. It looked innocent enough, and when my host, still smiling, offered me my choice of colors, I expected an enjoyable evening of mental challenge.

I learned quickly enough, however, that Trivial Pursuit is not a nice game. The rolling for starting positions was relatively uneventful, but once the questions began, I wished I had never seen those tiny pie slices and their circular containers. It fell upon me to ask the first question. “Which president...” I started. Quickly I was interrupted by the answer — the correct one, I might add. “Grover Cleveland.” The answer was matter-of-fact and straight to the point. I sloughed it off as a lucky guess. The next question. “This device...” Again interrupting, “Oh, I know that one! It’s a sundial.” I began to suspect foul play, so I asked what sort of psychic phenomenon I was witnessing. The answer was simple. “I’ve heard the question before.”

When I had two pie slices and the rest of the crew was fighting for the center position twenty-five minutes after the game began, I had much less respect for the persons against whom I was playing. It seems that for several months they had been playing with the same set of questions several times a week — sometimes nightly. For some odd reason, I no longer found the game fun. When I expressed my concern to them, they immediately pointed out that the extra questions cost more than the game board at the store where they purchased their original set. Quite disgusted with the whole affair, I finished the game, which to my opponents was more like a mad rush to roll a three, and left hoping to block the event from my mind.

A little later in the summer, I was offered a chance to play with some other people who owned a board. I figured it might be a fair match, however, because they were all in their early teens and did not understand the answers well enough to memorize them correctly. Occasionally they would miss an answer, but a missed answer loses its mystique when the reason for the inaccuracy is a player confusing the blue and orange questions on the dog-eared card.

As the summer progressed, I witnessed businessmen and women reading the extra card sets to one another over their lunch breaks. They informed me that they couldn’t play the game in the time allotted, so they were “practicing.” It seems to me that a far superior way of practicing for Trivial Pursuit would be to read books or attempt meaningful conversation. Apparently, the cost of winning in Trivial Pursuit is to destroy its educational benefits, or at least those associated with playing the game. It would be a shame if such a fine game as Trivial Pursuit were to be relegated to an exercise in dice throwing due to the fact that no one ever missed the questions. It should be, along with most other games that civilized man has ever invented, played for fun — not for blood. If one were actually to learn the answers to all the 30,000 questions now available for Trivial Pursuit, due to the fact that most of them are by nature trivial, he or she would be no better of a human being for having done so. I, for one, am perfectly happy to miss a question every now and then for the sake of enjoying the game.

While I do stop short of insisting on imposed government restraints on the playing of Trivial Pursuit, I think it would be wise for those who commonly play to take a break once in a while and play Monopoly or Backgammon. I do still enjoy the game and hope that I have the good sense not to burn myself out on it. I have been told by many people much older and wiser than I that if I were to eat only chocolate ice cream, I would eventually tire of it. After my experiences with Trivial Pursuit, I believe I now understand what they meant.

Stephens is a sophomore from Roswell, Georgia.