Friday, March 30, 1984 / The Davidsonian 9

BY STEVE BYERS

The Battle for Seattle. The Brawl for it all. Welcome to the wonderful world of hype. This weekend Houston, Virginia,
Georgetown, and Kentucky vie for that coveted prize: the right to have their faces smeared all over the cover of
Sports Illustrated. A national title and a No. 1 ranking are also part of the package, but the publicity is
more important to the players.

The Final Four is an event, a spectacle unmatched in sports. The Super Bowl has too much build-up, while the
World Series is watered down being spread over several weeks. As N.C. State proved last year, a team like Virginia
cannot be overlooked, though it is easy to ignore them. They don’t have any catchy nicknames, and they don’t have
too many Las Vegas bookies behind them either. But they do have capable inside players and a great set of
guards.

—From The Locker Room

Final Four Go For Cover Of Sports Illustrated

And remember, this is do or die now, so if the Cavaliers can put together back-to-back strong games and if
the others falter, who knows? Virginia is my sentimental favorite for three reasons: they are big underdogs, they represent the
ACC, and Coach Terry Holland is a former Davidson student and coach.

The Houston Cougars need to answer some questions. Can Guy Lewis coach? Can they make a free throw? Can they
hit any shot that isn’t a dunk? If there ever was a team due to win the title, it is
this Houston team, which lost in the semifinals in ’82 and in the final last year. They do sport the
best nickname in the Final Four — Phi Slamma Jamma — and their center has the best name, Akeem “The
Dream” Abdul Olajuwon. Virginia’s center, Olden Polynice, runs a close second. If Lewis allows his team to play their type
of game, which is full-court, run and gun basketball, and Akeem stays out of foul trouble, they may not have
to worry about missed free throws.

Coach John Thompson and his Georgetown squad have been labeled “Grandmaster Flash and Furious Twelve,” an appropriate title for a
defense-oriented team that is at least nine or ten players deep. Thompson usually wears the opponent down, throwing a variety
of defenses and players at them until the other team relaxes for just a minute and then it’s over. Center
Patrick Ewing leads this gang of intimidators (others say “punks” and “thugs”), who always look as if they're getting ready
to punch your lights out. The Hoyas are the favorites in this mini-tournament, and if form prevails, they will win
the national title Monday night, but not many friends along the way.

That leaves Kentucky, the team with the most talent of the four, but probably the fewest supporters willing to pick
them for the title. On paper the Wildcats look unbeatable: a front line that goes 7'1", 6'11" and 6'8", a
sharpshooting “two” guard and a lightning-quick point guard. Who can beat a team like that? And yet they did lose
this season, four times in fact (including an embarrassing blowout at Auburn), so anything could happen. Still though, I’m betting
that even Coach Joe B. Hall can’t screw this team up, and that they will withstand the challenges of Georgetown
and Houston to win it all.

My only regret — besides Carolina's early exit of course — is that Ralph Sampson no longer plays for Virginia.
Picture a Final Four of Olajuwon, Ewing, Sampson, Melvin Turpin, and Sam Bowie. Al McGuire would call it the battle
of the...“aircraft carriers.” Just imagine the slams and rejections in those games.

QUOTE OF THE WEEK (from the run-that-one-by-me-again dept.): “It's not the sitting that bothers me, it's the not playing.” —
Georgia freshman Melvin Howard on his adjustment to college basketball.

Equestrian Team To Host Last Show Of Season
By JANIS EVANS

In its two shows since January, the equestrian team has faced tough competition from the region’s other schools, particularly the
University of South Carolina and the College of Charleston. With these larger, more experienced teams making their final push to
qualify for the regionals, the normally consistent performances of the Davidson riders were greatly hampered.

Davidson entered all nine of its riders at the College of Charleston show February 19. This show turned out to
be one of the most competitive shows of the season. Of its 12 entrants, Davidson brought home five ribbons. The
Division I (walk-trot) riders fared the best. In class 1, junior Kelly Sundberg placed second, her third finish in the
top three of the three shows she has entered this season. The three class 2 riders finished as follows: sophomores
Trish Lennon, second; Janice Evans, third; and Jan Withers, fifth. The only other team member taking a ribbon was sophomore
Julie Waters, who placed third in class 5. Also attending the show were freshman Sheryl Aikman, junior Susan Moore, senior
Mandy Dotson, and freshman Kate Lehman.

Only Evans, Waters, and Aikman went to the March 3 show at St. Andrew’s College. Evans took a second place
in class 2, and Waters continued to show improvement from a mid-season lull, getting fourth place in class 5, and
sixth place in class 8.

The regional horse show for the eight schools in region 9 is April 15. With one show remaining in the
season, two Davidson team members have a good chance to qualify. Points are acquired depending on finishes in the regular
season shows, and 21 points are required to qualify for the regional show. Sundberg now has 16 points and needs
a second place in the upcoming show. Evans has the team-high total of 19 points, and needs a fifth place
to qualify.

—Pundits Predict
John Byrd, Equipment Manager: Virginia (“I’ll take the guards over the trees”)
Coach Charlie Slagle: Georgetown
Peter Krentz: the “thugs” of Georgetown
Tom Kazee: Houston (If they shoot 60 percent at the foul line)
Randy Nelson: Houston
John Kelton: Georgetown
Sterling Martin: Houston
Jim McConkey: Kentucky

Davidson will host its last show of the season at 12 noon this Sunday, at Engleside Stables. In addition to
the regular 10 hunt seat classes, the show will also feature the Wildcat Classic jump class, designed by coach Nancy
Hoffman.

Tournament
Gerry Born: Virginia
Emil Parker: Virginia
Steve Soud, Sports Editor Emeritus: Georgetown
Pepper Bego: Houston
Ken Niebuhr: Georgetown
Fast Scotty: Houston
Ted Wolfe: Georgetown
Jeff McSwain: Houston
Pete Burr: Houston
Charles Wiley: Georgetown (“I've picked them all along”)

IF YOU WANT TO BE A PHYSICIAN, WE’LL PAY FOR IT.
If you're willing to invest your skills and knowledge as an Air Force medical officer, we'll invest in you and
pay your way through medical school. It’s the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program and it pays for tuition, books,
supplies, equipment and lab fees plus a monthly income of more than $550. See your Air Force recruiter for details.

TSGT BOB PAYNE

Order in advance—
Wine & Beer by the case: Cost plus 10%
Keg beer: Cost plus 10%
CALL COLLECT 919-755-4134
128 S. Main St.-Davidson, N.C
Trissy Lomax, owner
28036
892-7521
