HE DAVIDSONIAN  
Volume LXXIV, Number 4  
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036  
Friday, October 5, 1984  

Caroline Hunt, the wife of senatorial candidate James Hunt, Jr., visited Davidson yesterday. She met briefly with Hunt for Senate Committee members in the Center for Special Studies.

Few Davidson Students Apply For Fellowships  
By ROXANNA GUILFORD  

“An exceedingly small number of Davidson seniors” are competing for fellowships and scholarships in national competition, according to a recent report of the Faculty Committee on Graduate Fellowships and Scholarships. “Except for the Watson Fellowship, for which Davidson students apply in healthy numbers, our students show little enthusiasm for attempting to win the best-known scholarships and fellowships,” philosophy Professor and committee chairman Lance Stell wrote in the report.

Stell said only one Davidson student last year, Hunter Monroe ’84, applied for the Rhodes scholarship. Monroe received the scholarship. Stell attributed the lack of interest to factors ranging from a “who me?” mindset to the system of teaching at Davidson. While some students simply may not be aware of all the possible fellowships and scholarships, Stell does not view this as a major reason. While he acknowledged various other “complicated reasons” for the low number of applicants, he said “some of that is just plain apathy or inertia.”

Stell said the lack of interest in graduate fellowships among students here is unusual. “At most colleges similar to Davidson,” Stell said, “there is heavy pressure on these awards. Competition within many schools like Davidson is fierce,” he said. For Davidson to join the ranks of (continued on page 4)

Perry, Faculty Cultivate Ideas For Rusk Program  
By DAVID McGEE  

Since the Trustees approved the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies in 1983, the College faculty and administration have formulated ideas concerning the focus of Davidson’s international education curriculum in coming years, including a new three-term course for freshmen in international studies.

Last Thursday night in Atlanta, Ga., Davidson named Ambassador Jack Perry to head the Rusk program. Perry will move to Davidson next summer, but will remain in contact throughout the year with the International Education Committee to develop a specific plan for the program by next fall.

Perry was on campus today and yesterday meeting with students, faculty, and Trustees. Yesterday, he outlined his initial thoughts and plans for the program before the International Education Committee. He said he wants students to gain a global awareness and “to think in world terms.” In addition, Perry would put emphasis on foreign language studies. He would like to have students specialize in one area of the world in a concentrated study. Also, Perry said, the international

Student Self-Study Group To Help With Accreditation  
By JOHN GATHINGS  

The 1984 student Self-Study Committee has organized and will gather student viewpoints “on all aspects of the College” as part of an accreditation review, according to committee co-chairman John Laughlin. The committee will obtain student input for inclusion in an informal report, due February 1, and present it to a head committee. This committee will then evaluate the student information and incorporate it into a report to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.

“There is no reason to doubt we will be re-accredited,” Laughlin said. Laughlin wants a study comprehensive and accurate in its representation of student opinion. “We hope to include a broad range of student input,” he said. “Ten years ago it wasJust a questionnaire handed out to 200 students.” This year, Laughlin plans to reach a broad cross-section. The student committee will base its report on three surveys, each distributed to 200 students. As a result, 600 students will participate in the survey. The committee will contact each of the students selected in a random sample. The student will return the survey to his or her committee contact. This method will safeguard the accuracy of the survey to a greater degree than an impersonal approach would, Laughlin said. “We want to ensure a high rate of return on this,” he added.

Structure of the Report

Once the committee receives the information from the three surveys, it must compile the material. The information will be run through the College computer’s Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) system, according to Laughlin. The student committee will use this information to write an informal report. The report will present statistical information as well as prose responses. The head committee is then responsible for evaluating the student report. “We hope (continued on page 5)

program a student undertakes should have some relationship to the student’s future career and major. For now, Perry plans to begin an assessment of the current international programs Davidson offers. “I want to gather ideas from every possible source,” he said. Perry may begin the program next fall with a lecture series. Other considerations include a requirement of international literacy for graduation and a certification for completing studies under the Rusk program.

Introduction To International Studies

The International Education Committee has submitted a grant proposal which, if accepted, would fund an international studies course for freshmen. The faculty has not approved the program yet. The program would be a three-term class, which would begin in the winter term. The first term would aim at increasing international literacy, covering geography, culture, economics, and recent global history. At the end of the term, freshmen would submit a proposal for summer study outside the United States, and the “best” proposal, according to the grant proposal, would receive (continued on page 4)

Maloney Awarded Service Medal

By LEE WHITE

“Institutions have a way of shaping our lives,” remarked religion Professor Samuel Maloney, accepting the United States Air Force Meritorious Service Medal at a ceremony Wednesday evening in Hodson Hall. The award recognizes his service in the reserve as an Air Force Chaplain. Maloney retired last May after serving as Chaplain of the North Carolina National Guard and for the 317th Combat Support Group. As a chaplain, he performed pastoral duties and counseling work. The citation said Maloney was distinguished in performance of his duties, and it said he has shown “professional skill, leadership and inspiration” over a “long and distinguished career.” Maloney has served 38 years in the military, both on active and reserve duty.

As a high school senior, Maloney planned to attend Davidson and become a minister. The attack on Pearl Harbor changed those plans, he said. His father was drafted, and to remain with his mother, Maloney entered college at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville. A year later, he enlisted in the Army Air Corps and in the cadet aviation program. Commissioned as a second lieutenant in June of 1944, he served in the Pacific theater during World War II as commander of a B-24. (continued on page 5)