Friday, October 12, 1984 / The Davidsonian

student generation. And there one reads the line from Chaucer that reflects the man: “Gladly would he learn, and gladly teach.” And not that man alone, though he was surely one of a kind. But the nature of Davidson implies for all of his profession that scholarship is never an end in itself. Education in this place is intended to be knowledge mediated through character. The keys to our scholarship will always be the sorts of people we bring here to teach and learn, and the sort of context we can provide for their work. We will need, in these years ahead, to be very jealous of that context.

This College is a special place. I suppose, if asked, there might be many in our day who would want to equate the identity of a college with some other institution in our society, or with the configuration of one of the College’s parts. Like the seven blind men of Hindustan, modern observers — even some who love the College — lay a hand on one piece and call it the whole. So a college is mighty like a business, or a church, or an athletic team, or a military unit or a laboratory, or even a university; to any or all of which we must answer, “Yes... but ultimately, no!” To be sure, the College is and intends to be businesslike and churchly, organized and well-disciplined, motivated by intellectual curiosity and the quest for comprehensiveness and unity in learning. But the essence of the College reaches beyond such considerations. We cannot simply reckon success in terms of dollars and cents — or souls, or games, or battles won — or new things found or old things rediscovered. Our forebears established this institution, and we seek to maintain and enhance it as a place in which learning is cherished for the sake of what it can do to transform life — both the lives of individuals and, consequently, the life of the commonwealth.

Much of this present address was thought out in a hotel room high above the campus of a great national university. From the window, I could see the marching band preparing for the evening’s game, and dozens of students — even on a Saturday afternoon — as they came and went from studies. As I watched, I found myself wondering just what Davidson might offer that such a magnificent institution could not provide. To some imperfect extent, I believe that I know: We have the will to pass on and instill learning in a personal way, in what one recent commentator has called a “pastoral” way. By that he meant a genuine concern that the student understand the knowledge being disseminated, a concern for the causes of any lack of understanding, and a further concern that the student be enabled to discover for her/himself what differences that learning can make for life.

And further — and this brings me to the second of my two dream-words — I believe that we have the intention that the education that Davidson provides should be invested for the common good. Education, in our tradition, is — should be — an act of servanthood. I need to tell you at this early stage of our relationship that I find myself disappointed, even a little offended, when I hear this college referred to as “elitist” or “aristocratic.” This is not to say that we mean to be anything other than the best; nor is it to say that we will henceforth be penny-wise and pound-foolish when it comes to providing the best faculties, facilities, and materials for the education of the best students we can attract to this institution.nor to say, therefore—sad to say from the vantage of some—that tuition and our zeal for the annual fund or the 1987 Campaign and subsequent campaigns will diminish to any degree. But it is to say that the genius of education in our reformed tradition at Davidson College is that it has always been directed to the common good. It is never selfish, never restricted to the group to which Jacob Bronowski once referred as “the aristocracy of the intellect.” “Truth is in order to goodness.” Just as learning can never be simply abstracted from life, so that it becomes merely “academic,” neither can it be dedicated simply to the private benefit of a privileged class—for me, so that I can make my mark. A piece of this College’s heritage that has never quite received its proper due, in my judgment, is that part which has to do with the mandate Davidson has intended to deliver to all of its sons and daughters that they must serve the welfare and virtue of the community. Many of you may have seen the personal testimony of Col. Fred Cherry, a P.O.W. in Vietnam, who was incarcerated in Cu Loc Prison (“The Zoo”) with Navy Lieutenant j.g. Porter Halyburton, Davidson class of ‘63. Cherry, who is black, presumed that the guards had put Porter in the same cell because he was from the South, so that the two could not possibly get along. But the captors had missed something about the man, maybe something they couldn't possibly have known. Wrote Cherry: “Hally fed me. And he always made me welcome to any part of his food. If he thought I'd want the greens out of his soup, he'd give them to me.” Eventually, of course, the two were separated, and Cherry testifies to the depth of their relationship. “I never hated to lose anybody so much in my entire life. We had become very good friends. [Hally] was responsible for my life.” Now pray God that no other Davidson alumnus or any other among God's children ever faces such an ordeal; and never mind any self-righteous pretensions that Davidson College taught Porter Halyburton to be willing, quite literally, to lay down his life for his friend. Such lessons are not glibly taught. But don’t discount the possibility that an encouragement to servanthood is an important piece of what Davidson is about and should be about as we send graduates into a world that sometimes seems to forget such homely virtues. The message is servanthood: servanthood in the classroom and in the courtroom, in the wards of hospitals and the corridors of power, in banks and corporations and commercial ventures, in homes and offices and places of worship, in matters civic and social, economic and political. The graduates of Davidson College in the years to come, as in the years now past, will be able to make a difference in this world to the extent that they are willing to give of themselves. I understand the charge that has been given to me this day as the charge to be of service, to this community and all who are involved in it, and, thereby, to the world that it seeks to serve. I do accept, and I invite you to join me in the effort.