Friday, January 27, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Meetze: Lack Of Funds Delays Athletic Complex

By LISA THOMAS

“If someone were to call me tomorrow and say ‘We have the funds,’ we could go,” said Director of the Physical Plant Grover Meetze, referring to the already existing construction schedule for the new athletic complex. Under this schedule, he said, the project could be completed by 1986.

After approval of the basic concept of the complex by the Trustees last May, “the major thrust was to get a great sum of money pledged,” according to Athletic Director Ed Farrell. However, this money has simply not materialized.

Vice-president of Development Jack Powers is in charge of the fund-raising aspects of the new building. According to Powers, $1.25 million has been pledged, $1 million of which was pledged by the Belk Foundation. The development office has one other prospect for a major contribution, and if that individual makes a commitment, a full-scale campaign for funds can be launched. Until now, they have concentrated on “a small number of individuals who are dedicated to Davidson and have the financial ability to help out. You have to already have a great deal of money before you appeal to the general public,” Powers said. The Belk Foundation has already paid one-third of their pledge and another donor has paid $50,000 of a $200,000 commitment.

No definite schedule for pledges has been set, according to Powers, but the building is one of the last major building projects of the 1987 Program. “If we had a schedule it [the complex] should be completed by 1987,” Powers said.

Meetze is taking advantage of the delay by investigating ways to complete the project as economically as possible without sacrificing efficiency. Meetze has been working closely with Little and Associates of Charlotte (who designed the Commons) in developing the plans. “If we built a building with everything we want, it would cost $8 to 12 million,” Meetze said. That, however, is based on a modest figure of $60 per square foot for the 140,000 complex. Many schools, said Meetze, use a round figure of $100 per square foot in their estimates.

Farrell, however, warns against excessive frugality, warning that “it’s a major complex and it’s going to be expensive. If we cut too many corners, what we get will be inadequate, and we'll have to live with it for years.”

The model now favored by Meetze and the architects is much more centralized than Johnston Gym. Glass panels will allow spectators to view activities in all areas of the complex from the student entrance. Other visitors will enter directly into the 6,000-seat gym from another entrance, at the opposite end of the complex. Plans for new parking facilities are also part of the project.

The tennis facility, which was originally incorporated as part of the complex, has now been redesigned to stand alone. The development office has about 80 percent of the funding for the tennis facility, and according to Powers, it should be completed by the end of this year. Meetze, however, hesitates to begin this construction before all of the other plans are finalized. “We don’t want to spend that much money until we know how that [the tennis facility] will relate to the whole thing,” Meetze said.

Still, Meetze does agree that the building will have to be done in phases, and he stresses the need to keep perspective on the layout of the whole campus. “Each building must fit in the whole design,” Meetze said. Plans for renovating Johnston Gym into an arts complex also accompany the athletic complex project.

Symposium Discusses Science, Technology

Some of the nation’s leading technologists visited Davidson College last Thursday and Friday to present their ideas about the role of technology in the liberal arts curriculum. The occasion was a two-day symposium, “Technology and Science: Important Distinctions for Liberal Arts Colleges,” funded by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Some 131 educators from 15 states turned out to hear the discussion. The experts agreed that...Science and technology are separate subjects. “Engineering is the design of artificial things, and science is the discovery of natural things,” said David P. Billington of the department of civil engineering at Princeton University. Edwin Layton of the University of Minnesota went further, saying that no amount of study in the basic sciences will produce technological literacy, because engineering and science are fundamentally different cultures. “The root of this confusion,” he said, “is the widely accepted theory that technology is no more than applied science, and that if one understands the science, one understands also its applications. This idea is simply false.”

James E. Brittain of Georgia Tech spoke of the “significant differences” between science and engineering, which he considered synonymous with technology. The experts also agreed that liberal arts students need to be taught about technology. “Science and technology are the really distinctive characteristics of Western civilization,” said Melvin Kranzberg, Callaway professor of the history of technology at Georgia Tech. “They have changed our world, our thoughts, our lives. So we need a new liberal arts which takes cognizance of the new world.” Not all students need become engineers and scientists, he said, but all must be educated to understand the interactions of science and technology on the one hand, humanity and society on the other.

Kranzberg is a founder and current president of the Society for the History of Technology. He formerly served as national president of the scientific research society Sigma Xi. Leon Trilling, professor of aeronautics and astronautics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, offered another view. “As scientific literacy is achieved by doing science,” he said, “technical literacy is best achieved by designing and testing a simple device under suitable constraints — by ‘doing’ engineering.”

Layton agreed that liberal arts students need more exposure to technology, as opposed to science. “Traditionally,” he said, “science has influenced the way people think. Technological knowledge has had comparatively little effect on the way people think, but the end products of technology change the way people live and work.” Since engineering is impregnated with values, he said, the study of engineering has relevance for the humanities.

Five additional symposia are planned. They are “Technology and Values: Decision Theory and Electric Rates,” Mar. 22-23; “Mathematics of Clustering Algorithms,” in October; “Photography: A Technological Art Form,” Jan. 1985; “Technology and Freedom,” Mar. 1985; and “Collapse of the City Infrastructure: Water, Sewer and Public Policy,” Oct. 1985.

---

After Graduation Consider What One More Year of College Will Earn You

Peabody College of Vanderbilt University offers Masters Degrees leading to careers in:
- Human Resource Development in Corporations
- Policy Development and Program Evaluation
- College Student Personnel Services
- Library and Information Science
- College Development
- Teaching programs

Write or call:
Room 210, Peabody College
Vanderbilt University
Nashville, TN 37203

For information about these and other programs:
Office of Admissions & Financial Aid
Vanderbilt
615-322-8410

Please send me information about Peabody College of Vanderbilt University

NAME:
ADDRESS:
CITY:
STATE:
ZIP:
UNDERGRADUATE COLLEGE:
GRADUATION DATE:

---

Questron Corporation

Questron Corporation is seeking University and Community Representatives and Coordinators. Excellent and lucrative opportunity for reliable and ambitious personnel. Ideal for students; set your own hours. Earn next year’s tuition before summer. Personnel hired at this time will have the option to continue full-time throughout the summer. Graduating this year? Many permanent positions are available, too.

To apply, send a self-addressed, stamped, business-size envelope. Application form and information will reach you by return mail.

Questron Corporation
Suite 204
220 Broadway
New York, NY 10007