W/.Ae.-A-- vv AHIUSUa j;, December 5, 1984/The Davidsonian 3

SGA Committee Addresses Security Situation

By LISA THOMAS

Prompted by a fall-term theft incident in Knox Dormitory, the SGA has reactivated its Security committee to decrease a perceived
lack of student awareness surrounding the issue of campus security. Chaired by junior Carroll Overton, the committee has begun an
escort service from the library to Knox, Irwin, and Akers dormitories. According to Overton, students will be available in the
library to accompany those who are afraid to return to their dorms at late hours. The committee is also considering
the possibility of recommending the installation of a combination- or card-lock system in the dorms. There are no definite plans
for a locking system at this time, but Overton is preparing a formal proposal to present to the SGA.

Housing Director Bill Bolding said, “security in all of its facets is a primary problem right now.” “As far as
I know, we are the only campus around with open dorms at all hours,” he added. Bolding said that all
of the dorms are vulnerable to theft, although the problem has been accentuated in the three outer dorms this year.
According to Bolding, many people feel that security issues question the efficacy of the Honor Code. He said that it
is not a question of honor or of the failure of the Honor Code. “It’s a matter of people from
off-campus coming on.” With the rapid growth of Charlotte, Davidson is no longer an isolated, rural community. College President John
Kuykendall said, “it is a fact of life we have to confront that no place on campus is invulnerable. We
are now suburban Charlotte.” Kuykendall stated that the incidents that have occurred appear to be matters of chance, rather than
planned offenses. He added, “My main concern is that we

Davidsonian, Union Offices Uncontested In Elections

By DAVID VAN PELT

Six positions in Tuesday’s SGA elections, including The Davidsonian editorship and all College Union posts, will be uncontested. “Our main
goal will be to keep the student body informed on what is going on on campus and in town,” said
sophomore John Gathings. Gathings and sophomore Kevin Horan will become the next Davidsonian editors. “We want to continue the local
focus of the paper,” he said. Gathings served as Features Editor of The Davidsonian for two terms, Managing Editor for
one term, and is now Production Manager. After editing his high school literary magazine, Horan began working on The Davidsonian
as a photographer. He said he has studied production, editing, and for the last two terms has been The Davidsonian’s
Business Manager, “which threw me into learning about all different areas,” he said. Gathings said he and Horan will work
to “make sure we're covering the pertinent issues and how they affect the student body.”

“I can’t believe more people didn’t sign up,” said sophomore Lucinda Kellam, who will run unopposed for Union Vice-President. She
cited poor publicity as the reason for the number of uncontested races. An accurate response to the “feelings of the
community” is what the Union “is really striving for,” Kellam said. She said her current position on the Campus Forum
Committee has prepared her for the position of Union vice-president, which primarily helps select members of Union committees. She said
she hopes to “bring all different types of people together” to participate in Union activities. “It’s amazing what the Union
can do if it has involvement,” said junior Frank Hobart, who will become Union Social Vice-President. Though Hobart said he
enjoyed his two-year service on the SGA, as Irwin Dorm and junior class senator, he said he is “interested in
getting more involved with students.” He said his aim as Union social vice-president will be to make the Union “do
exactly what the students want it to do.”

Though junior Edwin Evans is not currently a member of any Union Board Committee, he said he is “very familiar
with the way it works.” Evans, the cousin of the current Union President Thomas Evans, will become the next president.
The Union president's responsibilities consist of appointing Union committee members and “carrying on and supporting” Union activities. Sophomore Lynn Michie
said she feels her two terms as program coordinator for the Y-Corps tutoring program and her work with the Davidson
CROP program have prepared her for her role as Y-Corps vice-president. She sees the purpose of the Y-Corps offices as
“finding out what needs there are in the community.” She plans to maintain the current Y-Corps services and “add any
new programs which the student body thinks we need to have.” An environmental program is one which she will try
to implement.

Juniors Sara Beasley and Tom Cardwell will run unopposed for freshman advisors. They are both currently hall counselors and will
“continue our support for a strong program,” said Cardwell. Beasley anticipates major changes in hall counselor policies toward drugs, vandalism,
or other areas. “Every year you need to redefine certain policies.” They see this as one of their chief responsibilities.Don’t
go one, two, or three steps behind an event, but that we take precautionary measures.” Bolding agreed that “proactive measures
must be taken instead of reactive ones.” Dean of Students Will Terry said that although the College provides personnel, a
security system will be only as good “as the students want to make it.” Terry suggested that a student security
committee conduct a campaign to make students “security conscious.” Kuykendall agreed that students' awareness must be raised before any effective
changes can be made in the security system. Director of the Physical Plant Grover Meetze welcomed student interest in security
and cited examples of past security measures that were rejected by students. When Davidson first admitted women, locks were placed
on the front doors of the women’s dorms and students reacted by removing the doors from their hinges. Meetze added
that the current security system was established by a vote of the SGA. Kuykendall and Terry cited revisions in the
campus dispatch system as one improvement in campus security. Terry added that “we may need to establish a pattern of
patrolling based on the traffic patterns of students.” Bolding said that simply having a more visible patrolling force on campus
would discourage trespassers. Bolding is “frustrated” with the state of campus security because “people are talking but someone needs to
take the initiative.” “I'm not seeing any movement,” he said.

Windy Endowment. Emanon’s Betsy Downes attempts to extract money from an alumni account during the SGA Phonathon. The phonathon began
last Monday and will end Thursday, with proceeds going to the College’s Living Endowment.

Some In Davidson Feel Impact Of Gandhi
By DAVID McGEE

“We have lost our innocence,” said history Professor Job Thomas, a native Indian, about the Oct. 31 assassination of Indian
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. Gandhi’s determined, forceful style of leadership was exemplified last June in her decision to invade the
Golden Temple of Amritsar, the holiest shrine of the Sikhs, a religious minority in India. In addition to Thomas, religion
professor William Mahoney, who spent last term in India, and exchange student from India Chandan Sinha reflected this week on
the impact of Gandhi's assassination and troubled India’s future.

“In a way the country has gained,” Thomas said. India’s constitutional process survived the crisis with the smooth passage of
power to Indira Gandhi's son, Rajiv, 40, who has assumed the post of prime minister. Thomas feels that communal relations
in India will be tested in the coming months. In one way, the “senselessness” of the assassination may foster unity
among India’s many ethnic communities, he said. But the Sikh community has suffered an increased loss of trust by other
Indians, he said. The Sikhs, who constitute two percent of India’s population, have experienced an uneasy and often violent relationship
with India’s Hindu majority. Sikhism, which emerged in the 16th century amid turmoil between Hinduism and Islam, grew to emphasize
self-protection to combat centuries of oppression. Most Sikhs reside in Punjab, one of India’s most prosperous provinces. The good harvests
and robust economic growth of recent years, many observers say, resulted in part from Indira Gandhi's ability to maintain unity.
“India has 1/50 of the resources the U.S. has,” Thomas said. “Every region is dependent on the other... It is
very easy to share prosperity, but not poverty.”

Mahoney was on a train to Madras the morning of the assassination. The train, he said, came to an abrupt
halt near Madras. Immediately the passengers sealed off the train and closed its metal window shutters, he said. Though he
could not speak the local dialect, he gradually pieced together the news of Gandhi's assassination. “In India,” he said, “the
natural reaction to a crisis like this is to shut everything down.” When he arrived in Madras, he found the
usually bustling city deserted. “It was eerie,” he said. “The country held together remarkably well,” he said. Though rioters indiscriminately
attacked Sikhs in many cities, Mahoney said, Rajiv Gandhi visited many troubled communities and exerted a calming influence. “A lot
of the press coverage revealed that Sikhs were celebrating. That just wasn't true.” Mahoney said Sikh leaders in India denounced
the assassination.

Exchange student Chandan Sinha said he was “quite shocked” upon hearing of Gandhi's assassination. “I thought she would survive. That
has something to do with her personality.” Sinha described the Indian leader as “cunning, forceful, and very ruthless also.” Gandhi
“did everything she did for the benefit of India,” he said. She is responsible for “a great deal” of India’s
technological development, Sinha said. “You have to realize we are a very young nation,” Sinha said, explaining the political and
religious turmoil which has plagued India since it gained independence from England in 1947. “Thirty-seven years is nothing in the
history of any nation.” Sinha stressed the difficulty of uniting a country with 750 million inhabitants, 18 languages, and over
300 regional dialects. “We are in the process of nation-building. It is a process which is going to continue for
many years.”
