Friday, January 13, 1984 / The Davidsonian

OPINIONS

Denial Of Faith Depends On Faith
Charles Wiley

I am Christian. According to Eric Hill (“The Reality of Reason,” The Davidsonian, Dec. 14) I have abandoned reality, my mind, and my life. In short, I am tragically stupid. I disagree, and I will use reason — his god — to defend faith in my God.

Hill’s thesis is this: reason is the only means to understand reality; therefore, faith is useless. Hill’s argument consists of four main points which I will address individually.

Hill’s first point is that humans can have “contact with reality” only through sense perceptions interpreted by reason. Why? Hill apparently feels his statement is self-evident, for he gives us no argument. He does not even tell us what reality is, a definition essential to his argument. He assumes a definition of reality that fits his conclusion, leaving us with a brilliant piece of circular reasoning: we can understand reality only through reason because reality is understandable only through reason. He does give a very nice definition of reason, “the integration of interpreted sense into concepts,” but his failure to substantiate his assumed definition of reality hurts his case considerably. Moreover, thinkers such as Sartre, Kant, and perhaps even Hume have acknowledged that reality may extend beyond the range of rational thought.

The second point is humans survive only by means of reason. This is Hill’s strongest point, for the question boils down to his opinion versus mine. I acknowledge that reason is absolutely essential to survival; however, I see other features of human nature which I believe are also essential for a quality life. I believe that love is such a human trait. Love gives a quality to life that nothing else can, and I deny that it can be explained in purely logical terms. Why? I can only appeal to my intuition and hope that you share that intuition.

Next, faith “is the decision to abandon reality, to abandon the mind and to abandon life.” Hill deduces this statement from Ayn Rand’s definition of faith: the “commitment of one’s consciousness to beliefs for which one has no sensory evidence or rational belief.” Hill makes two errors here. First, he uses a definition of faith from one whose anti-faith stand is well known. He must either use an accepted definition of faith or substantiate Rand’s definition. Second, Hill’s deduction is based on his view of reason and reality that I have already shown to be assumed. So Hill has “proven” his view of faith by deducing from two assumptions. Furthermore, Hill has not explained why faith and reason are necessarily contradictory. I hardly think any of us would accuse Aquinas or Einstein of abandoning their minds, yet both believed in God.

Hill’s fourth point is that reason brings the “comfortable life” to humans in the form of material wealth, while biblical faith commands Christians “to suffer out 60 or 70 years at a meager subsistence.” I acknowledge freely that reason is the only means to financial success, but I do not find financial success and the Christian faith contradictory. Achieving financial success and making that success an ultimate end are not equivalent. Nowhere in the Bible do we find the command, “Thou shalt not possess wealth.” What we do find is the command not to seek wealth above all other things and to share that wealth with others. Where Hill got the idea that Christians must “suffer out 60 or 70 years at a meager subsistence” I do not know. He did not get it from the Bible, nor does it follow logically from the assertion that wealth should not be an ultimate end in life. Moreover, our present Western economy owes much of its success to the Protestant work ethic, so Hill’s own lifestyle depends on the labor and reason of people of faith.

God has not called on me to abdicate reason. No, God gave me my mind, and for that reason if no other I should use it. Reason poses tough questions for the person of faith: “How can a good God allow suffering?” “How can I know there is a God?” etc. However, Christians must not run from these questions. We must confront them. I have shown in this article that Hill’s argument against faith rests on his own faith: faith in reason and in a particular view of reality. Mr. Hill, based on your assumptions, faith in God would be intellectual suicide. We can come no closer together in this dialogue until we both admit that our disagreement rests mainly in our assumptions and agree to look critically at those assumptions. I hope we can both be honest enough to do this. Remember, “There are more things in heaven and earth,Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy.” Wiley is a senior religion major from Kernersville, N.C.

Christianity Does Not Exclude Reason
Hunter Monroe

I agree with the gist of the Opinion “A Kernel of Faith” (The Davidsonian, Dec. 7, 1983) and want to rebut the two responses to the article. Matt Morris’ letter (The Davidsonian, Dec. 14, 1983) is so flippant that I am not sure whether he seriously objects to “A Kernel...” In any case, his letter is unconvincing. First, he states that the opinion makes unsupported statements, and yet he does not support this particular statement. Admittedly, Lorenz and Cooper did not support their points in depth, but they sought to demonstrate their rationality; they both made 4.0s freshman year. 

Second, Morris asks why the opinion was written. I find this question curious, since the purpose of the Opinions Page is to allow people to present their points of view on important questions. The two wrote the article because they thought their ideas were worth sharing. 

Third, he says that these people with different perceptions of reality scare him. This attitude disturbs me; most persecution occurs because of one group’s inability to deal with another which is in some way different. People who present their views forcefully do not scare me; people who try to discredit others and their opinions with ridicule do. I wonder if Morris realizes that Davidson’s Statement of Purpose “recognizes God as the source of all truth” and “sees Jesus Christ as the central fact of history.” What a scary place. (Oops! That’s ridicule, isn’t it?)

Eric Hill’s response to “A Kernel” impressed me; he obviously spent more time writing it than the five minutes Morris used. Nevertheless, he overstates the importance of reason and financial success. Reason is a powerful tool, but Hill fails to mention its limitations. For instance, in the early 1900s Kurt Goedel demonstrated mathematically that any sufficiently powerful, consistent, logical system contains true statements which cannot be proved true or false. In other words, any useful system of reasoning will fail in a search for complete knowledge. Also, the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle of particle physics states that any observation changes what is being observed. By Hill’s own analysis, such tainted sense data will produce faulty concepts. A man may try to deal with the death of a friend in a rational way, but he will find that he must also deal with it on an emotional level. I cannot will myself to feel a certain way, nor could I pass off the death of a friend as merely another piece of sense data. Completely rational human beings do not exist. Poetry shows the effectiveness of a non-rational approach to understanding through imagery, metaphor, and perhaps even some biblical references. 

Finally, a rational person must realize that he takes a leap of faith in applying reason to the world. He assumes that the world is reasonable. Thus, as Hill does not acknowledge, reason has limitations and is based on faith. Even if the world is reasonable, Hill’s statement that a rational man (person?) controls his destiny does not follow. My brother dreamed for years of being a military aviator, but his plans fell through when his eyesight deteriorated only slightly. If I had been born in a poor country I would not be in control of my destiny; I might be dead by my age. Man has some control over his destiny, but there are plenty of smart, unemployed people. 

I also disagree with Hill’s emphasis on financial success. Such a goal is not sinful; Lorenz and Cooper did not say that it is. However, many concentrate too much on seeking the “good” life (making money). In my experience, people concerned about having a comfortable life raise their standards of comfort as their salary increases. I know very few people who have too much money. Our consumption-oriented society distorts our sense of need and luxury. Much of the world needs three meals a day, while we need TVs and Walkmans. I just hope that, in choosing careers, people might consider where they can most benefit others and not just themselves.

A person does not have to abandon his rationality to be a Christian. C.S. Lewis, a triple honors graduate of Oxford, gives a good rational justification for Christianity in Mere Christianity. Christianity does require a person to place the spiritual above the material and to regard service above self. A materialistic and selfish person will obviously find this religion unreasonable. But a rational person must recognize the limits and assumptions of his rationality. When he wonders why the world is reasonable in the first place, he just might discover his faith.

Monroe is a senior Mathematics major from Chapel Hill, NC.