Friday, March 23, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Risky Business Advocates ‘Why Not’ Philosophy
By MATT MORRIS

Risky Business, this week's pop film, surely lives up to its title. A film about a young Chicago lad who seeks to supplement his allowance by temporarily operating a bordello in the middle of Middle America generally runs all kinds of risks. It’s to the movie’s credit that the characters involved come off as appealing and realistic. Written by first-time director Paul Brickman, the script roars with huge belly-laughs as Tom Cruise, this generation’s Andy Hardy, attempts to maintain equilibrium between his parents, his school, and his highly profitable, albeit risky, business.

However, the approach never encroaches on satire, and the moral remains confusing — even frightening. Director Brickman seems to side with the conniving Cruise and all his teeny-bop visions right down to the last image. Instead of being “the Graduate of the 80s” as the posters proclaim, Risky Business is the '80s answer to that pre-hippie “anti” film, and the answer provided here calls for conformity and materialism, occasionally giving way to decadence and a “Why not?” philosophy. If the movie's attitude had been more light-hearted this approach could be easier to take. As it is, Risky Business moves toward more far-reaching social implications, but then plays chicken and toys with the issues.

Not to say that the film isn’t funny; it is. Tom Cruise perfectly embodies the air-guitar generation. In a wonderful sequence, Cruise, temporarily freed from his parents, jumps about on Mom and Dad’s sacred furniture to the tune of Bob Seger, armed only with his underwear and a candlestick. Dad’s turntable certainly had never spun such stuff. Here the movie revels in good semi-rebellious fun; a new “anti” film for the under-30 crowd, without the dated longhairs one has come to expect. Rebecca de Mornay excites as Cruise’s girlfriend/call girl, but the movie is ultimately about making money, not love. Their relationship evokes only laughter. Also amusing, but no more than that, is

Classifieds

CAMP BECKET boys camp has openings for counselors and program specialists. Also Nurses (RN). Located in the mountains of western Massachusetts within driving distance to Boston and NYC, the camp offers a broad camping program emphasizing personal development. Contact the placement office for more information and interview schedule.

EXCITING SUMMER JOBS for college students or faculty as counselor/instructors in tennis, water ski, crafts, kayak, canoe, riflery, rock climb, etc. Includes good salary, food, lodging, and a fun and rewarding experience. Reply immediately to The Summit or call 704-884-5388.

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’ bring along this money-savin’ coupon.

STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND ORANGE JUICE $1.29

Camps, Box 100, Cedar Mountain, NC 28718

NORTH MECKLENBURG YMCA’s Lake Norman Day Camp is looking for people interested in working with children, 5-12 years old, in a day camp setting. Camp sessions run June 11 through July 20, with staff orientation beginning the week of June 4. Salary dependent upon experience. Please come by the Y to fill out an application before Wednesday, April 18.

TEST YOURSELF: Can you manage your time productively? Work 2-4 hrs/wk consistently? Are you success-oriented? Self-motivated? Marketing position available on campus. 1-800-243-6679.

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours through May 31, 1984 only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants.

© 1983, Hardee’s Food Systems, Inc.

FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at participating Hardee's Restaurants through May 31, 1984.

© 1983, Hardee’s Food Systems, Inc.is Rob Peel as Cruise’s philosophical buddy Highland. His now (in)famous credo, “Sometimes you’ve just gotta say, ‘What the f——,’” triggers the business ethic in Cruise. Yet again Brickman has elicited only empty ha-ha’s from this potentially interesting character. The tone of the movie is muddled. Sid Luft’s moody photography combined with the spacy sounds of Tangerine Dream hint at subtler, darker themes. But they are mere appetizers. A particularly annoying example occurs when Cruise and de Mornay are in the midst of passionate love-making, and the camera pulls back to show a picture of Cruise at seven years. Lost innocence? Irony? Is this some kind of statement or what? Sequences like this in Risky Business are never followed up, but mere throwaways. One ought to consider the movie just that.

— Music By STEPHEN MANK

In a comparatively humble way, Liverpool is beating a path back up the charts. Bands like Flock of Seagulls and Echo and the Bunnymen are regaining the favor of western England that was once held by groups like Peter and Gordon, Billy J. Kramer and the Dakotas, Gerry and the Pacemakers, and of course, the Beatles. These days, music composed of perfectly controlled vocals, funky, frantic drums, bass, and tinny pizzicato guitars, all against a background sheen of synthesizers dominates the charts. It’s a fool-proof formula. Witness Duran Duran and Aztec Camera; even Culture Club and Eurythmics have incorporated this style into their music to some degree.

Icicle Works is one of those bands that hones this art with uncompromising clarity. Like their Liverpool contemporaries, Icicle Works, on their album of the same name, takes the 30-minute psychedelic “happenings” of the 60’s and crams it into dance songs one-tenth as long. Compositions like “Nirvana” with its guitar solo played backwards extol the virtues of love, happiness, and living the ideal life. Titles include “Lover’s Day,” “Love is a Wonderful Colour,” and of course, “In the Cauldron of Love.” Motifs tend towards the eastern with a certain, almost druidic undercurrent. “Out of Season” is about a young boy’s desire to marry a girl whose “eyes are as dark as November / When it falls on our village.” The final line, “there is something growing out of season,” unites the British mythos of Stonehenge and tree gods with the ancient eastern philosophers, religious masters, and gurus.

The lyrics are intelligent, the beat is good, the songs are appealing, and all three musicians are terribly proficient; nonetheless, Icicle Works is missing something, or rather, they have too much. The days of Fred Astaire, when dancers floated across the floor in a perfect fusion of music and movement, are gone. Today dancing is a mad flailing of limbs and a crazy gyration of torsos to blaringly apparent beats. Quite simply, high production and polish are unnecessary and unwelcome. It is silly to have people jumping about, working themselves to a sweat against a backdrop of satin and glass perfection. There is no rawness. The question at hand is, where does one draw the line between high aspirations and pretension? Icicle Works don’t quite seem to know on what side of the line they fall. Icicle Works are fine musicians, singers, and songwriters; all they need to do is learn to fall away from conventions of British pop. For in spite of their conformity, they are truly masters of their field.

Quick Pan

When AC/DC first made Heavy Metal devil rock popular with “Highway to Hell,” I laughed along with everyone else — I mean, what could be funnier than a song about going to Hell that ends, “And I’m goin’ down / AAAAAAAUUGH.” Now a band called Motley Crue is climbing the charts with an LP called Shout at the Devil (even Ozzy Osborne only Barks at the Moon). What I want to know is when did the joke stop being for us and start being on us?