Friday, October 5, 1984 / The Davidsonian - 7

Dance Troupe Captures Intensity In Movement

By ALLISON WILLS

Toe dancing to the music of Prince is highly unusual, but the Nanette Bearden Contemporary Dance Theater made it seem natural in what was perhaps the most moving piece of last night’s performance. The group specializes in combining the strength and discipline of traditional dance with the emotion and appeal of contemporary movement.

Founded in 1976 by Nanette Bearden, the company strives to bring the arts closer to the general public by involving the audience in the intense energy and sensitivity generated on stage. The effect is dynamic, exciting, and sensual with lighting and simple costumes designed to accentuate the 12 dancers’ lean, strong bodies.

The hour-long performance, sponsored by the Black Student Coalition and the Union, featured five dancers and was a bizarre combination of strange movements and intertwined bodies structured by a conformity of motion. The second was a short, effective duet performed only to percussion instruments and characterized by sharp, energetic movements. Another short piece followed — a solo by Keith Henderson which had a vaudeville theme and featured mock tap dancing.

The highlight of the show was a duet performed by Robin Williams and Walter Rutledge entitled “The Beautiful Ones.” Choreographed to music by Prince, this piece seemed to move the audience more than the other works. Dancing on toe, Williams captured the elegance of traditional ballet with controlled turns and extensions while straying from tradition enough to establish an individual style. Often a bent wrist or flexed ankle updated the classical just enough to incorporate the rock music.

The performance ended with a piece set in a ballroom in Spanish Harlem featuring the entire company. Its theme and costumes were distinctively Spanish, and the movement incorporated ballet with the humor and gaiety of the setting.

Outstanding choreography, young, promising dancers, and universal themes have won the company awards and praise worldwide. While the dancers’ talent and discipline aesthetically please audiences, their superior ability to convey passion engages the viewer. Not only does an audience witness dance in a performance of the Nanette Bearden company, it also experiences it.

BUFFET — ALL YOU CAN EAT —
Mooresville’s First And Finest Italian Restaurant

KING OF PIZZA

Sunday
12 Noon til 9:00 P.M.

Tues., Wed. & Thurs.
5 P.M. til 9 P.M.

241 SOUTH BROAD STREET MOORESVILLE 663-3030

Meal Includes:
SPAGHETTI 100% Durham Wheat
OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE
FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD
PARMESAN—ROMANO CHEESE

SALAD BAR 45 Items
FRESH GREEN VEGETABLES
DELICIOUS FRUITS
FLAVORFUL MEATS
RICH DRESSINGS
TASTY CHEESES
WINE CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE

DESSERT-TEMPTING HAWAIIAN SALAD

ALL FOR $8.99 PER PERSON
SPECIAL RATES FOR CHILDREN UNDER 12—25¢ PER YEAR

Lunch Buffet—Mon.-Sat., 11:30 AM-2:30 PM $2.99

PIZZA Still Mooresville’s Finest
SPICY PEPPERONI
CANADIAN BACON
ITALIAN SAUSAGE
CHOICE BEEF
FRESHLY DICED GREEN PEPPERS
SWEET ONIONS

SOUP OF THE DAY
CREAM OF POTATO
VEGETABLE BEEF STOCK
CHICKEN NOODLE
CHILI CON CARNE

Nanette Bearden dancers perform

— Music

By STEVE MANK

Most anyone these days can imitate James Brown. Even people who have never heard him can, thanks to a vicious imitation by Eddie Murphy that sounds like “HEEOUGH!”

However banal Brown sounds, he possesses a peculiar ability to excite. More than most any other artist, Brown can force you to dance whether you want to or not.

His new album, Unity, recorded with Afrika Bambaataa, harkens back to the mean embryonic stages of funk. This is not synthesized and made lush or programmed. This is hard, hard funk, complete with a huge band playing like a small one, complete with the wailing, woowooing, and the “HEEOUGH.”

But the most fascinating thing about Unity is the theme. Only James Brown could get away with making a concept album in 1984 — especially one with the frequently repeated mantra, “peace, love, unity, and [of course] having fun.”

The whole album is really only one song interpreted many ways. In between each track (“Unity 1-6") is strange shouting, sounding something like, “man, this ain’t never been put on an album b’fo’. HEEOUGH!”

Brown, who signs the liner notes G. F. O. S. (“Godfather of Soul"), dedicates the record to the cause of peace. Not nuclear disarmament, or foreign aid, or helping the poor — just peace.

Musically, Unity is not peaceful at all. Together the drums and bass sound like a rumbling volcano while guitars twinkle somewhere far above. The occasional horn riffs blare up in a Brown imitation that beats even Murphy's.

What with Brown's vocal chord ripping screams and Bambaataa’s yips and caws, the album sounds downright tribal. It should be no surprise that the two dedicated the L. P. to the Zulu nation.

But in many ways, in spite of its good intentions, Unity does seem a trifle idealistic. James Brown of all people should know that an appeal for peace should be accompanied by a means of achieving it, or at least some real social commentary.

Brown, though, has never really been a cerebral artist. If anything, his appeal lies in his ability to go right for the ganglia. His philosophy — and a noble philosophy it is — is to make music so moving that the listener is dancing before he or she can analyze the music intellectually.

In that sense, it may be hard to get peace when people only listen on a very guttural level.

It is to Brown and Bambaataa’s advantage, though, that the music is so bold. For even though the message is sometimes lost in the “HEEOUGH,” the “HEEOUGH” is the most important thing anyway.

The Davidsonian presently has paid business and typesetting positions available.

Call 892-2000 Ext. 148