12 Friday, April 6, 1984 / The Davidsonian

OPINIONS

Honor Council Should Publish Its Decisions

Dr. Lance Stell

The Honor Code and the widespread support which it enjoys make life in our community non-morally better than it would be otherwise. Instead of paying the costs of overcoming a presumption that they will be deceitful, community members have the luxury of the opposite presumption. Of course, the benefits which attend the Honor Code are not free. A sufficient proportion of the community must be willing to refrain from the advantages which deceit might win them, and they must do so primarily on the motive that the system of honor deserves their support and not primarily because a personal cost/benefit analysis of deceitful conduct leaves them net disinclined. To enjoy support which is motivated in this way, the system must be fair and, what is equally important from a practical point of view, it must be perceived as fair.

I offer the following suggestion as a friend of the system, keeping in mind that a true friend wants the best for those to whom he is loyal. Suggesting an improvement in a friend does not make a person disloyal or an enemy. I suggest that the Honor Council publish its decisions together with supporting (and dissenting) opinions and that these be made available through the Dean of Students office to any member of the community who makes a signed written request. Here are the reasons for my suggestion.

1. Breaches of the Honor Code are not private wrongs. They are public in at least two senses. First, they take unfair advantage of and insult all those community members who exercise the self-control to forgo the apparent advantages of deceit. Second, they threaten the bonds of trust which are necessary in a community whose members want not to pay the offensive costs associated with the presumption that each person will cheat if given the chance.

2. The Honor Council is an elected public body charged with the community’s business. Council members are not vigilantes meting out private justice in secret by their own lights. The Code they have a duty to protect and enforce articulates standards by which all have consented to abide. As representatives of their fellow community members, those elected to the Honor Council are responsible to the community and answerable to it.

3. How should the Honor Council discharge its duty of responsibility to the community it serves? First, it should conscientiously uphold the principles of the Code and conduct its proceedings in such a way that only the guilty are punished (I think the Council discharges this duty rather well). Second, it should be open with the community about both its decisions and the reasons for those decisions. This latter duty is especially important if council members want the support and goodwill of the community they serve in exchange for executing the first duty.

4. Publication of Council decisions and opinions would have some desirable consequences. It would help forestall groundless rumors which contain a fantastic variety of accounts of what the Council has done and what its reasons were. It would help allay fears that the Council plays favorites or operates haphazardly. Finally, most importantly of all, the Council has a duty not to violate the rights of those community members who are imperiled by its activities viz., the suspected, the accused, the convicted, and those who are called as witnesses. Assurance that the Council has taken these rights seriously is not possible if its decisions together with supporting reasons are kept secret.

At least two objections to my proposal should be considered. Firstly, it has been objected that publication of decisions and supporting opinions would undermine a spirit of forgiveness which ought to be extended to Honor Code offenders when they are re-admitted to the community. I think that there may be a morally important point here but perhaps a confusion as well. People who are genuinely sorry for the wrong they have done should be forgiven and it is vengeful to refuse (unless some wrongs are beyond forgiving). But forgiveness of offenders presupposes that who the offenders are is known. In order for something to be an act of forgiveness, it must be intentionally and knowingly done to a recipient. We ought not to confuse the benefit of having others ignorant of the wrong we have done with the quite different benefit of receiving forgiveness for wrongdoing.

Lastly, it has been objected that permitting community members to have access to Honor Council decisions and opinions would result in malicious persecution of violators (and perhaps others) by way of, say, unseemly publicity in the Davidsonian. I think this speculative prediction raises a serious challenge whether students will be serious, conscientious, and not vindictive with the knowledge they may acquire when permitted access to Honor Council decisions and opinions.Since this speculative prediction is empirical, it would be a mistake to insist baldly that what it predicts won’t (or can’t) happen. However, I wonder what evidence exists for thinking that the prediction might be true. It is surely not consistent with the general run of student conduct as I know it. But others may have different evidence. If one were to rationally oppose my suggestion regarding the publication of Honor Council decisions and opinions on the ground that this prediction was true, he or she would have to have good evidence for thinking so. However, if he or she had such evidence, it would likely support an argument that the Honor Code itself should be abolished. I think such evidence does not exist.

Stell is an Associate Professor of philosophy.

Some Activism Misses Point
Mike Stephens

Since coming to Davidson several months ago, I have noticed an overwhelming concern on the part of a number of students with the so-called “fate of the world.” A lot of students are, rightfully so, interested in the eventual result of mankind’s historical tendency toward self-destruction. This concern exhibits itself in a number of different forms, among them the numerous campus concerns groups. A Davidson student has the opportunity to be involved with everything from freeing political “prisoners of conscience” through an Amnesty International letter-writing campaign to placing a papier-mâché missile in the Union conversation pit.

While the concerns examined by these Davidson students are well worth the attention given them, at times it seems that a cure is being affected on the symptoms of an underlying problem, and not on its source. A lot of things in this world are worth fighting for, and for the most part a lot of people are fighting for them. But all too often during the fight, these same people, armed with good intentions, lose sight of their reasons for fighting in the first place. The biggest gripe I have with all of those who devote their lives to the struggle for peace and equality through such programs, far too numerous to mention, is that as yet, no one has shown me that some of these movements are connected in any way at all to the ends which they hope to achieve.

The basic problem in this world is not the presence of nuclear weapons. We didn’t have world peace before we had nuclear weapons, and we don’t have it now. As a matter of fact, ever since mankind found out that rock is harder than flesh and bone we’ve had a problem with world peace. Eliminating nuclear weapons will not cause world peace. It will simply mean that we will be able to kill fewer people at one time.

As far as problems of equality and hunger are concerned, all of the amendments, government programs, and interventions of private industry that we can develop before the end of this century are not going to stop the problems they were designed to correct. They will help the temporary situations these problems create, and their efforts are much needed, so long as those behind the efforts realize that the difficulty is not socio-political or military in nature — the problem is spiritual. Man was created in God’s image and is instructed by God to love his brother. The answer is quite simple. It is very difficult to love someone while firing an automatic weapon in his direction. The same goes for letting him starve to death while your refrigerator is full of food or demeaning him because of the color of his parents’ skin.

I really don’t mind being cornered by a member of SANE and being told that if I personally don’t stop nuclear warfare before tomorrow morning I might not see tomorrow evening, as long as he or she realizes that the weapons themselves are not the problem. The most powerful world peace movement was begun in a small fishing village around 2000 years ago by a man who didn’t once mention nuclear warfare or the plight of the snail darter. He told us to love each other and then died for his radical beliefs. The only way I can see to end the poverty, hunger, hatred, and fear all too present in today’s world is for people to treat one another as human beings and not as statistics. I realize that this is idealistic and seems rather removed from the pressing problem of whether or not we have enough nuclear weapons to blow up the Earth ten times or just enough to blow it up once, but am I so tuned out to think that if each person shared the love that he is capable of sharing, we wouldn’t have problems like nuclear war? I don’t think so. It isn’t something new we need, it’s a return to the basic principle of love. So maybe now I’ll be labeled as a religious fanatic and an idealist instead of a barbarian war-monger. I guess I like that better, anyway. God loves you.

Stephens is a freshman from Roswell, GA and is Opinions editor of The Davidsonian.