Friday, May 11, 1984 / The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Davidson Tennis Solid; Plays A Strong Season

By STEVE BYERS

The world of amateur athletics suffered two setbacks this past week. On a state level, North Carolina demi-god Michael Jordan
decided to pass up his senior season in favor of turning pro. Nationally, the Soviets announced they were not coming
to the summer Olympics. But locally, the Davidson men’s tennis team remains oblivious to the problems of the “real” world.
Coach Jeff Frank continues to produce consistent, quality teams which embody the true spirit of amateur athletics.

Tournament Play

Davidson recently completed its season with a 15-8 record and a third-place finish in the Southern Conference Tournament. Junior Sedge
Gray advanced to the finals in the number two singles flight before bowing to UT-C’s Orlando Lourenco. Gray was defending
champion at this position. The Cats also lost in the finals at number two doubles, but junior John Hackett and
sophomore Craig Hall are blossoming into a great doubles tandem. UT-C won its seventh consecutive tournament, while Furman finished second
for the sixth time in the last seven years. Keep in mind, though, that both of these schools offer tennis
scholarships (Davidson does not) and have considerably more money to pump into their programs than Davidson. The Cats compensate for
these disadvantages by playing what senior Mark Nottingham calls an “intelligent, hustling, scrappy” brand of tennis.

Frank was far from disappointed, though, at the team’s showing in the tournament. “We played mentally tough in the tournament,
and I was quite pleased with our overall performance.”

Season’s Performance

And mastering the mental aspects of the game is no easy task, especially considering that three of Davidson’s key players
this season were freshmen — Hayes Dallas, Trip Caldwell, and Michael “Monk” Meyer. Frank is impressed with all three players
but singled out Dallas: “He had an incredible year, considering he was playing number one singles as a freshman.”

Gray readily admits that he was out of shape for most of the season and that his concentration was not
what it should have been. But he was prepared for the tournament, and the hard courts at ETSU were ideal
for his serve and volley game. “Sedge can play with anybody in the country when he wants to,” added Frank.
Gray is the best tournament player on the squad, and it showed at ETSU.

Nottingham, after playing one and two singles his first three years at Davidson, was shifted to number three this season,
but he did not complain. In fact, he enjoyed it — “I had more fun out there this year, because
there wasn’t the pressure on me that I had playing higher.” Nottingham, however, did not have a great season. He
blamed injuries, sickness, and a horrible slump midway through the schedule. Frank noted that Nottingham’s problems were probably more psychological
than physical. He said that all seniors have a difficult time concentrating on tennis during the spring term, and Nottingham
was no exception. But the coach quickly added, “He came through in the clutch, as I knew he would.”

Positions four, five, and six — Hall, Hackett, and sophomore Bobby Nichols, respectively — produced the best records on the
team. Hackett boasted the best individual record on the squad, and Frank described his performance as “solid all season long.”
Nichols overcame a confidence problem (at the start of the season) with Frank’s help and finished with the second best
record. Hall began slow, due to injuries and falling behind in school work, but he came on and finished strong.

Notice how everyone seemed to improve and play his best tennis at tournament time. This is the sign of a
good team, one with maturity, experience, and confidence, and Frank proudly points to Davidson’s blazing finish — winning seven out
of their last eight matches. Looking back over the past season's successes makes Frank happy, especially when you consider that
matches against UNC and South Carolina were scheduled only to give Davidson experience against top-quality competition.

But about next year...

Incoming Recruits

Frank has received commitments from four outstanding players. The big catch appears to be Bill Young from Washington, who is
ranked among...the top 40 juniors in the country. Richmond, Va. native Jim Thompson is also on his way to Davidson
and is ranked number 17 in MATA (a very strong region in juniors tennis which includes the highly competitive D.C.
area). As if that were not sufficient, Frank also successfully recruited Rick Hodge (“a great athlete and a potentially great
doubles player”) and Ecuadoran Carlos Ortega (“one of the top players in his age group in Florida”). If this sounds
like an exceptional recruiting year, it is. As Frank says, “You just can’t turn down great players.” Yes, the prospects
for next season are tremendous: the team loses only Nottingham to graduation, four top freshmen enter the program, and an
indoor tennis facility will be constructed on campus over the summer. This will eliminate conflicts with the women’s team for
practice time and the inevitable problems resulting from inclement weather. Look for Dallas to get some strong challenges at number
one from newcomer Young and a rejuvenated Gray. Frank may be facing a tough decision on who to play where.
But these are the kinds of dilemmas that Frank does not mind, believe me.

Cats Take Gardner-Webb In Last Game Of Season
By ANDY BARRON

The Davidson baseball team concluded its season last Saturday by sweeping Gardner-Webb in a doubleheader. The twin bill ended a
season highlighted by improvement and rain.

“We missed 13 games due to rain,” said Coach George Greer. “We feel we could have won many of those
games and accomplished one of our main goals this season, to go over .500.”

Despite failing to win half their games, by going 12-16, the team did have the best record of any Davidson
baseball team since 1975. The team succeeded in accomplishing another goal, winning more than three games against Division I schools.
Davidson won seven such games this year.

“The rainouts really hurt us because not only did we not get to play some more games we could have
won, but not playing during the week hurt our timing,” said sophomore shortstop Keith Helfant. Helfant had a fine year
this year, leading the team in batting with a .352 percentage. That is a dramatic improvement over his performance last
year of .214. Look for Helfant to have another fine spring next season.

In addition to Helfant, sophomores Tim Waters and Scott Weaver showed tremendous progress over last year. Both raised their batting
averages and committed fewer errors. Waters was also listed in USA TODAY as tenth in the nation in the category
of doubles per game. Waters led the team with 11 doubles.

Pitching is an area where the Cats need to improve. Freshmen Billy Waitsman and Steve Condon were inconsistent, though each
displayed moments of great promise. Weaver led the team in innings pitched, victories, and complete games. Success or continued mediocrity
will hinge on the pitching staff's ability to improve even further.

The fine seasons by this year’s crop of freshmen are a source of great optimism. Freshman third baseman Dave Turgeon
led the team in home runs and runs batted in. Freshmen Dan Simonds and Dave DePaul were regular starters at
catcher and center field respectively and played very well, especially defensively.

“I think we all learned a lot this season,” said DePaul. “We'll only lose three players to graduation and we
are getting some good recruits, so next season looks promising. Only wish we could play now.”

The team does lose three fine players in seniors Scott Redding, Mick Smith, and Jeff McSwain. All three made important
contributions to the team in the form of fine play and leadership.

“They are great kids,” said Coach Greer. “They were tri-captains by unanimous consent and did an outstanding job. I wish
they were coming back.”

On his final season, Redding said, “I was disappointed that both the team and myself didn’t do a little better.
However, it was as good as any team I've been on since I was here. The freshmen have a way
to go, but have already made a lot of progress. Watch out for them in the future.”
