10 Friday, February 3, 1984 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Ann Meador, Editor
David Resnik, Executive Editor
Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor
John Gathings, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

Griffith Street

When one first hears the rumors concerning Griffith Street Properties, it seems that a monolithic alliance between big business and a powerful private college has engaged in a plot to usurp property at the expense of small-town landowners. It seems paternalistic and downright nefarious, as if the corporation and the College are trying to transplant the residents — mostly black and lower income — to hide them away from the white, affluent College visitors.

This may not be the case. The men behind Griffith Street Properties seem to have a genuine concern for the College and for Griffith Street residents. In the cases where homeowners have been relocated, they have been put in a better position than before. Many of the houses on Griffith Street are substandard or very near it. Still, the first appearances are what the residents have perceived. Indeed, it seems unlikely that is all they have been given to perceive.

The situation would be divisive anywhere, but in Davidson it is especially so. A deep division has always existed between blacks and whites in Davidson, and between upper and lower income. Despite the fact that local blacks are gaining more representation in town government, tension still exists. A housing shortage also exists in town; one community member commented that at least eight people would be willing to purchase any house that goes on the market. It doesn’t take an economics whiz to realize that this drives prices up, undoubtedly out of the range of the poorer residents’ incomes. Thus any large-scale attempt to purchase land can easily be perceived as an attempt to force the less affluent members of the community into a smaller and smaller area. Because of housing shortages, such an attempt might force people out of Davidson, where their roots are, into the outlying areas of the county.

It is incumbent upon the Griffith Street corporation and the College, then, to demonstrate to the community (not just to the Griffith Street residents) that their intent is not sinister. The project must be coordinated with the town and town planners. Despite any good intentions on the part of the corporation and the College, and any help they offer individual residents, rumors can sink the plan once and for all and further increase tensions in the town.

The project’s merit cannot be decided by considering only the interests of the College. It is a decision that must include the full participation of the town and the members of the community. Only when the lines of communication are open among every interested party can appearances be dispelled and the potential benefit or danger to the community be revealed.

Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class.

Davidson College News Staff: David McGee, Assistant News Editor: Boyd Blackburn, Roxanna Guilford, Rand Hartsell, Bob Loper, Wayne Magruder, Frances Palmer, John Ruppenthal, Tom Schilling, Julie Sternal, Lisa Thomas, David Van Pelt, Elizabeth White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Ida Phillips, Assistant Arts and Entertainment Editor: Miguel Abreu, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris, Tim Waples, Andrew Wilson

Sports Staff: Scott Huie, Assistant Sports Editor: Kerry Brown, Steve Byers, Hunter Gourley

Photography Staff: Carroll Overton, Assistant Photography Editor: Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael Dent, Caryl Dawson, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, RockyKmeicik, Laura McGee, Anderson Scott, Mike Snell, Bruce von Stein
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey
Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt
Production Staff: Kevin Horan
Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Debby Williams
Copy Editing: Christine Jackson
Circulation: David McCurry, Manager
Postal rates, Advertising rates available on request.
Copyright held by the Trustees

"Oh William, I'd just love to go on by a picnic."
- R. Cloudt, 2/3/74

"So what time you get off at the plant? Thought maybe we could go to the gym, then hit a few bars."

Letters

Mistakes

To the Editors:

We, the members of the so-called “Triumvirate,” would like to point out a few of the mistakes made in Kerry Brown's Jan. 27 article, titled “Hissam Contends for Southern Conference Crown.” This title may be true, but the conference tournament is not until the end of the season, and the article is not about Tom’s preparation for it. The photograph that accompanied the article was not of Mike Keeley as labelled, but of Mike Adams. Rod Duffee, who was said to have “corralled an opponent in 3:56” for Davidson, is not even a student at Davidson, but at Furman. Davidson wrestling may not be nationally ranked, but we are certainly not “victory starved.” We have an overall individual match record of 40 wins, 23 losses, and one tie. At the recent Washington and Lee Tournament, we placed third out of a strong field of eight teams. We had two first-place winners, Tom Hissam and John T. Lay; two second-place winners, John Breidenstine and Mike Keeley; and two fourth-place winners, Mike Adams and Tom Cardwell.

While these errors irritate us, what was left out of the article makes us livid. Brown presents a three-man team, but this is not the case. All the team’s wrestlers have outstanding high school records behind them. Freshmen Mike Adams and John T. Lay are off to a tremendous start. Sophomores Brian Rice and Taylor Simpson, who were not even mentioned, both have proven themselves on the mat this year. Sophomore Tom Cardwell is a valuable team leader due to his hard work and experience. The majority of the team’s leadership comes not from the “Triumvirate,” but from Coach Vince Arduini. Arduini has done a fantastic job directing the team and deserves much credit. In the future, we hope The Davidsonian will get its facts straight and not mislead its readers and insult the school’s wrestling team.

Mike Keeley
John D. Breidenstine
Tom Hissam

Excuse

To the Editors:

What was [Sports Editor Steve] Soud’s excuse for not having a column last week? It’s not that the readers particularly miss his inane and most often obscure comments, but we, speaking for myself at least, would like to know how he gets away with it. If he told you he was too busy, he surely was not serious. We all know that he spends his time lollygagging around the library talking to any available coed he can find. It’s irresponsibility like this that gives sports journalism a bad name. You guys shouldn't let this bum push you around. Stick to your guns. Make Soud meet the same deadlines that everyone else must. He's the sports editor and should set a good example for the others on the staff. Starting to write the basketball highlights at 11 p.m. on Thursday night is a pitiful effort for one in such an important position, although I must give him credit for turning those highlights in at all.

Rocky Kmiecik

Editors’ note: Kmiecik is Soud's housemate.

Pity The Fool

To the Editors:

This letter is in response to the Jan. 27 article entitled, “What an Experience: What-a-Burger.” Yes, we agree, it is an