Friday, September 28, 1984 / The Davidsonian

From The Concession Stand

Flutie Seems Shoo-in For Heisman Trophy

By STEVE BYERS

Okay, so Bo Jackson has separated his shoulder and therefore won’t win the Heisman. Navy’s Napoleon McCallum, another strong candidate,
was also eliminated last week when he sustained a season-ending injury. Miami quarterback Bernie Kosar bid farewell to his chances
last Saturday after his dismal performance in the loss to Florida State, his second such poor showing this year. And
that’s all it takes: Bye, bye Bernie.

Who’s left? Well, Pitt tackle Bill Fralic is being pumped as a Heisman candidate, but Fralic’s got a problem. The
N.Y. Athletic Club doesn’t usually reward losses (Pitt is 0-3), and the chances of them picking an offensive lineman are
slim and none. Three prominent tailbacks are still in contention: Ohio State’s Keith Byars, Nebraska’s Jeff Smith, and Tennessee’s Johnnie
Jones. But this year’s Heisman Trophy belongs to a 5’9” quarterback who plays football for Boston College. It is Doug
Flutie’s to win or lose, as of right now. Barring an injury or a string of bad games, Flutie is
a shoo-in against this relatively weak field. Almost single-handedly he has taken BC from a perennial doormat to a high
national ranking (5th in this week’s AP poll) and victories over such powerhouses as Alabama and Clemson.

He is no fluke. His size and speed give him an extra dimension most college (and pro, too) quarterbacks lack
— the ability to avoid defensive linemen. Combine this with a surprisingly strong arm and an uncanny knack for reading
defenses, and you have a great QB on your hands. Add a touch of flair — he excels in pressure
situations and come-from-behind wins — and you have a legitimate and deserving Heisman candidate.

I saw Flutie for the first time this year last Sunday on the UNC Coaches Show. The highlights of the
UNC-BC game of the night before were little more than a promo film for Flutie. He literally picked apart the
Carolina secondary, throwing for 354 yards and six touchdowns, and he didn’t even play the fourth quarter. When the defense
prevented him from passing normally, he simply threw sidearm or half-pitched for touchdowns. If the Heisman voters are serious about
choosing college football’s most valuable player, few have done more for the game than Flutie.

Other Business

Now that I’m off my soapbox, let me address some other recent news in the world of sports. Congratulations to
Pete Johnson, who has the distinction of being the only running back to pass the Miami Dolphins’ physical this season.
Chuck Muncie and Rickey Young were axed by the lab boys, who found traces of drugs in their urine.

Speaking of axes, my compliments to the University of Florida for telling football Coach Charley Pell to take a walk.
Pell is responsible for over 150 violations at both Clemson and Florida. While I'm sure a lot of major college
coaches cut some corners, 150 violations is ridiculous. Considering that he even authorized spying on some opponents’ practices, look for
Pell to turn up in Central America in the near future.

Monday Night Football just isn’t the same without Howard Cosell — it’s better. O.J. is an adequate replacement, but I
hope that ABC can lure John Madden away from CBS next year. Can you imagine the sound effects in the
booth with Madden and “Dandy” Don Meredith together? By the way, ABC’s innovation, the reverse angle replay, is helpful. Their
new gimmick, however, which details a team’s drive on a miniature field, is superfluous.

Congratulations and best of luck to the Chicago Cubs, who deserved the N.L. East title after a 39-year drought. Cubs
second baseman Ryne Sandberg should be voted the N.L.'s MVP this year, and pitcher Rick Sutcliffe has a good shot
at the Cy Young. Mets rookie sensation Dwight Gooden should win the Cy Young if Sutcliffe doesn’t. In the American
League, my vote would go to TigersReliever Willie Hernandez for both awards.

Quote of the Week: “The Butler did it again.” — Georgia Coach Vince Dooley on kicker Kevin Butler's 60-yard field
goal that beat Clemson, 26-23.

Peggy Ierotti
Field hockey players face off.

Hockey Loses 3 At Longwood
Lou Hamilton, who injured her knee and may miss the rest of the season. “We didn’t play with confidence,” Coach
Patty Daley said. “Against both High Point and St. Mary's we didn’t control the ball, we didn’t mark people, and
we failed to improve. The first half of the Longwood game was fantastic, but the second half was the longest
half of my life with the injuries and the score. But I look for us to bounce back. It won't
be easy, but we're a better team than last weekend showed.”

By ANDY BARRON
Davidson's field hockey team hit a dry spell at a poor time. The Cats had hoped their trip to the
Longwood Tournament would improve their 2-2 record, but instead they lost three straight games. High Point started Davidson in the
wrong direction by beating the Cats 2-0. Mount St. Mary’s then beat Davidson 4-1. Longwood ended the weekend by defeating
Davidson 6-0. To make matters worse, Davidson lost senior co-captain Lou Hamilton, who injured her knee and may miss the
rest of the season.

Stanley H. Kaplan
The Smart
preparation FOR:
GMAT - LSAT - GRE
4407-21 Soon Lane Suite B
Winston Salem, NC 27106
EDUCATIONAL CENTER
(919) 723-7388

Men’s, Women’s Teams Open Cross Country Season
By ANDY BARRON
Davidson's men’s and women’s cross country teams opened their seasons here last Saturday. The men’s team finished fourth among the
six participating teams while the women took second place out of the four competing women’s teams. Duke won both team
competitions easily. The Duke women were led by Ellen Reynolds, who won with a time of 19:13 for the three-mile
course. Dave Mitchell led the Duke men by winning the men’s race in a time of 25:42 for the five-mile
course. Both of these times are new records because the courses were new.

“I'm glad to get that first meet over with,” said sophomore Trey Jammes. “The first one is the toughest. Now
that the team is done with the tough one, I think we will start to improve.”

The men’s team was led by sophomore Greg Foreman, who finished eighth in a time of 26:47. The other four
runners for Davidson that counted toward the team score were junior Taylor Simpson, who finished 15th, junior Frank Hague (23),
junior Bob Watkins (24), and Jammes (31). The team scores were Duke 20, Emory 75, Lynchburg 79, Davidson 92, Campbell
99, and Catawba with no score.

“The heat and the dust were tough,” Watkins said. “It was also difficult running on a new course because we
didn't have any real home course advantage.”

Senior captain Jean Webb, who finished fourth in a time of 20:53, led the women’s team. The rest of the
top five on the team were freshmen Kappa Peddy (9), junior Judy Dalton (10), senior Suzie Dresser (13), and senior
Arienae Cheek (15). The team scores were Duke 17, Davidson 51, Campbell 62, and Salem 101. The team missed senior
Sarah Patterson, who did not participate due to sore ankles.

“I'm really optimistic about the season,” Webb said. “We've got a good deal of talent and everyone is working hard.
If we can stay healthy, I think we will have a great season.”

Both Davidson teams will compete tomorrow here at Davidson. The women will run at 10:30 a.m. against Appalachian State and
Western Carolina. The men’s race should begin at about 11:15 a.m. with Davidson hosting Appalachian State, Western Carolina, The Citadel,
and Furman.

“If we can get the top nine runners toward the front of the pack, we will be a very competitive
team,” said Hague. “The competition on Saturday should be intense. The people who come out and watch us should see
a great race.”

The Davidsonian presently has paid business and typesetting positions available. Call 892-2000 Ext. 148.
