8 Friday, October 5, 1984 / The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Cats Defy Expectations In Loss To Pennsylvania

By SCOTT HUIE

City bus drivers supposedly have their fingers on the pulse of the streets, and the one in Philadelphia who took the Wildcats from the airport to 60,000-seat Franklin Stadium last Saturday — call him Butch — had some interesting comments. Word around town, according to Butch, was that Davidson would not get past midfield nor would they be able to hold Pennsylvania under 70 points. Loaded words, indeed, but they were enough to fire the Cats up such that they came within one and a half minutes and a punt return coverage from pulling a big, big upset. Just the same, Davidson fell 19-14.

The loss remains a loss, the Cats remain winless in four tries, and the claim to moral victory is becoming a hackneyed boast. But still, it is hard not to say we were just a pigskin away from putting it in Penn’s face. Nevertheless, this one hurt, and the culprit for the umpteenth time in a row was the special teams. The pain reached a crescendo late in the fourth quarter with Davidson trying to hold a 14-13 lead. The Cats tried to pin Penn deep in their territory with a punt, but the Quaker return man had other thoughts as he returned the kick 68 yards to Davidson’s 5-yard line. Two plays later, Penn sealed it with a touchdown.

Coach Ed Farrell described the punt return: “The guy simply made an excellent run, eluded a couple of tackles, and was off to the races. We defensed Penn well, but that return just killed us.”

For three quarters the game was a defensive struggle with the Quakers scoring the lone touchdown. After they built the lead to 13 early in the fourth quarter, Davidson pulled out a new weapon, an offensive explosion in the form of two touchdown passes. The first was a 9-yard strike from quarterback Steve Bradley to wingback Mike Jones. The second came on a 4-yard pass from quarterback Jeff Haney to halfback David Turner. For the day, Turner turned in a stellar performance with 76 yards rushing on 14 carries and nine pass receptions for 74 yards. Defensively, free safety Gary Stewart can write home about his exploits — nine tackles.

Overall, the Cats’ dominance was clear. They led in first downs 21 to 12, yards rushing 220 to 111, offensive plays 79 to 54, and time of possession 39 minutes to 21. But unfortunately, leading in possession time has little merit in the win-loss column.

Cross Country Improves

By ANDY BARRON

One week can make a big difference in how a team performs. Just ask Davidson's cross country teams. After a disappointing first meet, Davidson’s women’s team defeated Western Carolina in a dual meet, and the men finished fourth out of five strong teams.

“The men ran very well considering it’s early in the season and the competition was so tough,” commented Coach Sterling Martin. “Quite frankly, I didn’t expect us to beat anyone. That’s the first time in my memory that we've ever beaten Furman,” Martin said.

Sophomore Greg Foreman once again led the men’s team. Foreman finished eighth overall in a time of 27:15 for the 5.1 mile course. Sophomore Trey Jammes was next for the Cats, coming in fifteenth in a time of 27:43. Juniors Taylor Simpson (17th in 27:48), Frank Hague (19th in 28:02), and Robert Watkins (25th in 28:20) rounded out Davidson's scoring.

“It was great to have more people toward the front of the pack,” said Foreman. “Our top five runners were only 65 seconds apart. If we can continue to do that, we will be tough.”

Appalachian State won the team competition with 33 points. Other teams competing included Western Carolina (64), The Citadel (66), Davidson (88), and Furman (96).

The women’s team wasn’t good, it was great. Perfect, to be exact. Although the race was only a dual meet with Western Carolina, a perfect score (when the first five runners to finish are on the same team) is a rarity.

“The women ran extremely well,” said Martin. “The race should give them some momentum going into the regional meet this weekend. If they can continue to run as a team, they...will do well,” he added. Senior Jean Webb led the effort, winning the race in a time of 21:18 for the 3.1-mile race. Freshman Kappa Peddy was a close second in 21:25. Junior Judy Dalton (3rd in 22:21), senior Susie Dresser (4th in 22:32), and sophomore Alison McEntire (5th in 22:49) accounted for the rest of the scoring.

Warriner Inge Davidson players at a pre-Homecoming practice.

Cats Face Citadel In Homecoming Battle
By SCOTT HUIE

Homecoming games usually present victories on silver platters, but it will be no cakewalk tomorrow. Last year The Citadel slaughtered the Cats 41-12 in Charleston. This year they are 1-3, but don’t let those numbers fool you. Two of those losses went to strong South Carolina and budding powerhouse Georgia Tech. Last week the Bulldogs played bad football, losing 16-6 to East Tennessee, so they will be trying to regroup against the Cats.

Citadel Head Coach Tom Moore said, “It’s important for us to bounce back from last week with a positive reaction. Davidson is not a game we can afford to lose.” The Bulldogs’ strength lies in their offensive arsenal, where they run from the pro set, a wide-open offense featuring a sophisticated passing attack. The fulcrum is a passing combination that brings back memories of the Philadelphia connection: Ron Jaworski to Harold Carmichael. Quarterback Robert Hill has completed 52 of 99 passes for 906 yards and six touchdowns.

With tomorrow not being just another game, Farrell said, “Every game is important, but a good showing for the Homecoming crowd would be nice. I hope that enthusiasm is rampant, but Davidson fans tend to be casual about it. At Penn, we had about 200 fans on our side, but their support really made us feel like somebody’s team.”

Soccer Team Takes 3, Loses 1 On Road Trip
By BOYD BLACKBURN

Davidson soccer came out of a tough road stretch this week with three wins and a loss.

Western Carolina
Last Friday afternoon Davidson scored a 1-0 victory over Western Carolina. After a scoreless half in which the Wildcats carried the play but could not find the net, junior Steve Bernhardt scored on a free kick from 30 yards out. The ball bounded into the net after a defender missed his clear.

Warren Wilson
This 5-0 victory at Swannanoa gave several substitutes a chance to get a lot of playing time. Junior Sean Goudie and sophomore Carter Grine scored their first goals of the season. Newcomer Craig Mattison got his third goal of the year and Davidson’s second leading scorer Tony Cabrales chalked one up also. Davidson’s other goal came off a free kick after a Warren Wilson player slugged senior Mike Mauzé.

VMI
It was a cakewalk for Davidson as they built a 4-0 halftime lead against the Cadets from Lexington, Va. Cabrales got two goals and junior Wallis Goodman got his fifth of the year during a melee in front of the goal. Davidson’s other goal came as a culmination of sharp passing between Mattison and sophomore Brian Shockley. Shockley made the big cross to Mauzé who slammed it home. That was all the scoring for Davidson this day. Slagle called the game, “Our best against a team that wasn’t as good as us. It is important to play well against the poor teams as well as the tough teams.”

Appalachian State
Unfortunately, the week ended on a sour note. The Wildcats lost 2-1 in Boone to Appalachian State University. Twenty minutes into the game, Davidson was called for a high kick inside the penalty box. ASU converted the indirect kick and took a 1-0 lead. Appalachian went on to dominate the first half, as Davidson had trouble adjusting to the astro-turf. They got their second score after a shot deflected off senior sweeper Jim Wright’s leg and into the goal. Davidson played ASU hard in the second half. Sophomore Steve Stith was hot and created several chances. Senior Mike Lufkin scored the Wildcats’ goal after a Stith shot bounced off an ASU fullback. ASU is now the favorite to win the Northern division of the Southern conference record. Davidson is 1-1 in the conference and needs to win the rest of the conference games to have a chance for the title. Fortunately, ASU now owes us a visit. Davidson is now 5-5-1 overall.