4 Friday, October 19, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Student Found Not Guilty After 7 Hour Hearing

(continued from page 1)

footnotes with the sources Kusch listed in the bibliography. “I pulled some of these books... and I couldn’t find any sentences that were lifted directly out of any book. I had thoughts that (the paper) came from somewhere else.” Kusch testified later in the hearing, in response to questions from the defense advisors Tim Waples, Chris Blake, and Anne Miano, that he had arranged at least two meetings with Venturelli to discuss a different paper topic, but had missed one of the meetings. Venturelli, he said, missed the other.

During exam week last spring, Venturelli said he took the matter to Dean of Students Will Terry. Venturelli testified that he was unsure whether Kusch had plagiarized the paper, and added, “after four months, if you don’t come up with any evidence then [the hearing] is ridiculous... it turns into a witch hunt.”

English Professor John Engell, who taught Kusch in English 22 (English Composition II) last spring, testified that he read, at Venturelli’s request, Kusch’s sociology paper. Engell said he had graded nine papers written by Kusch including rough and final drafts. “Therefore,” Engell said, “I had a good deal of knowledge of Jeff’s writing.” He said Kusch had improved his writing ability during the course. Later in his testimony, Engell said, “in my opinion, and I have never had an honor case before, based on my 14 years as a teacher, this paper was plagiarized.” Engell said he based his suspicions on the difference between the writing styles of the paper Kusch wrote for Venturelli and the papers Kusch wrote for English 22. The paragraph and general organization of Kusch’s sociology paper, Engell said, varied from his English 22 papers. He said the sociology paper was better than anything Kusch had done for English 22. Engell cited two examples in the paper where references to deviance or deviant behavior indicated, Engell said, changes in the writing style. The two sections of the paper that dealt with deviance, Engell said, were “less direct.” One contained a grammatical error, and both were “more chatty,” he said. He repeated, when cross-examined by the defense advisors, “I still believe that this paper is plagiarized, but I have no direct evidence.”

Following the testimony of Venturelli and Engell, Tantillo asked Mauzé to take the stand and present a letter written by economics Professor Clark Ross which contained an evaluation of the economic content of Kusch’s paper. Ross did not testify because he was out of the country. The defense advisors objected to presenting the letter as evidence before the council. Council Chairperson Nancy Rosselot instructed the council to accept Mauzé’s testimony on the letter as hearsay evidence. According to the Code of Disciplinary Procedure, “Hearsay evidence (testimony by a witness to what a person not present at the hearing has stated) should be received and evaluated with caution, since no opportunity exists to question the absent person. Objections to evidence are ruled upon by the Chairman alone.” Mauzé did not read the letter, but paraphrased its contents. Ross, who does not know Kusch, read Kusch’s paper, Mauzé testified, and did not believe a freshman, who had not had Economics 101, could have written the paper. Rather, he said, only one of the College's strongest economics majors could have written it. Ross said, according to Mauzé, the paper resembled “clear, succinct, economic writing.”

Waples called Blake to the stand. Blake presented to the council the opinion of economics Professor Peter Hess. Blake’s testimony was admitted as hearsay evidence. Blake testified that Hess, who does not know Kusch, read Kusch’s paper and felt that Kusch was, according to Blake, “way in over his head.” The student, Blake said, in Hess’s opinion had no formal contact with economics, and if Hess were to grade the paper, he would have given it a failing grade. Hess thought the paper was not a good handling of economic theory, Blake testified. After the solicitors cross-examined Blake, Blake called Waples to the stand, and Waples testified that Kusch reads current economic materials and has a general interest in economics. Waples presented a letter from a Merrill Lynch accounting executive who, he said, has worked with Kusch in the past. The letter praised Kusch’s knowledge and ability to deal with stocks and investments, and was admitted to the council as hearsay evidence.

The defense advisors then called Kusch as a witness. Responding to questions, Kusch testified that he changed the topic of his sociology paper when, he said, he “could not find the proper angle of the paper.” Throughout the proceedings, Kusch said he had difficulty answering specific questions because of the time that had elapsed between the hearing and when he turned in his paper. Kusch said he and Venturelli discussed his paper in a phone conversation over the summer. He said he wrote another paper on homosexuality during the summer and sent it to Venturelli. The solicitors introduced as evidence the homosexuality paper Kusch wrote, and the defense advisors presented the rough draft from which the original paper was typed, and the sources Kusch footnoted in his paper. According to Batten, the student solicitors had not seen the rough draft before filing charges because they were not sure if Kusch could produce it. Council members questioned Kusch extensively on his knowledge of economics.

Closing Statements

In their closing statement, the defense advisors said the solicitors had based their case on speculation and opinions. They emphasized that Kusch had an “intuitive and rudimentary understanding” of economics. Concerning Engell’s testimony, Blake said Kusch’s increased interest in the subject matter of the paper he turned in to Venturelli could account for the differences in writing style. Blake said Kusch credited his paper properly.and about questions of the paper's content, he said, “bad papers are not the equivalent of plagiarized papers.” Batten said in the solicitor’s closing statement, “we don’t have a smoking gun,” and added that the burden of presenting a specific source that Kusch could have plagiarized from was overwhelming. The writing ability and knowledge of the paper came from an outside source, he said, citing Engell’s testimony that Kusch was not capable of writing the paper. He said where the paper mentions deviance is where the writing style changes. Batten said one of Kusch’s footnotes gave credit to material that did not appear on the page cited in the footnote. The Council members deciding the case deliberated during periodic recesses and for 90 minutes after the hearing ended. Rosselot announced the verdict to a gathering of about 25 students and professors outside of Eu Hall. Kusch said he was “obviously happy” he was found not guilty. “It seems like there should be something more than just a not guilty verdict, after all you go through,” he added.

Hearing Procedure

Kusch’s honor hearing was the first open one since February 1982. This hearing was the first case handled by the defense advisors and the student solicitors in their term of office. The following Honor Council members heard the case and decided the verdict: senior Council Chairperson Nancy Rosselot, seniors Ed Henderson and Shep Robinson, juniors Sayres Rudy and Ed Lilly, and sophomore Michael Holt. The student body elects the defense advisors and student solicitors; the former aid the accused in preparing his or her defense, and the latter investigate suspicions of honor violations submitted to them or to the Dean of Students. The solicitors decide whether adequate evidence exists to file charges against a student suspected of an honor violation. If the accused does not admit guilt to the Dean of Students, the case goes before the Honor Council. If the accused admits guilt, the Dean of Students will handle the case and decide the sanction or the accused may have the Honor Council determine the sanction.

Terry, Council Members Look At Procedure

(continued from page 1)

Terry said he and Blake also hope to discuss the procedure with members of the Review Board and the SCC. Though some procedural problems cropped up during the Kusch case, Blake said they do not relate only to that case. He said no procedural violations occurred during the investigation into the plagiarism charge against Kusch. Some confusion did develop, but “there's nothing overtly wrong,” Waples said. Kusch’s father, Robert E. Kusch, a Vero Beach, FL lawyer, expressed dissatisfaction with the way his son's case had been handled. “In the preparatory stage, things went wrong,” he said. “Within the school there should be some very serious discussion of this thing.” Students attending the hearing have also raised general questions about council procedures, especially concerning a perceived lack of grounds for a hearing. “I have heard people say that the case should never have been brought to trial,” Batten said. “That reflects a misunderstanding.” He said the solicitors felt that if they did not bring the case before the Honor Council, they would have judged Kusch innocent. Batten said it is not the solicitors' role to judge guilt or innocence. “We thought the best thing was to have a trial,” Batten said. He said the solicitors decided a minimum level of evidence existed for a hearing. Batten cited the “strong statements” the solicitors received from economics Professor Clark Ross and English Professor John Engell, and discrepancies between the sources and the way Kusch used them in his paper.

Other procedural questions involve the length of time between the spring term complaint and the fall term charge, why solicitors questioned Kusch in a taped conversation before presenting him with a written charge, why the solicitors present the final closing arguments in honor code hearings rather than the defense advisors, and admission of hearsay evidence in Honor Code hearings. The Code of Disciplinary Procedures allows no more than 10 days to elapse between an honor violation complaint and any formal charges. However, the Code allows the Dean of Students to ignore holidays, weekends, and vacations if he sees fit. Terry said he understood the concern about cases extended over the summer. He said it had occurred, however. Usually only “open-and-shut” cases were brought to hearings during the summer, he added. Terry acknowledged that the solicitors may have erred in interviewing Kusch on tape before the charges were given to him. But, Terry said, they did not attempt to use any material from that discussion as evidence. Robert Kusch noted that usually the defense made closing arguments last in courts of law. This is an important theoretical factor in “presumption of innocence,” he said. Blake said the order of closing arguments should be discussed thoughtfully. Another problem Robert Kusch said he saw was the admission of hearsay evidence. Hearsay evidence is evidence of what one person has said, reported to the hearing by someone else. In the Kusch hearing, both sides used hearsay evidence in reporting professors’ remarks. Robert Kusch said both solicitors and defense advisers ought to be present when a witness is interviewed whose testimony will be used as hearsay evidence. The Code of Disciplinary Procedures allows hearsay evidence, but cautions council members to weigh it with care since the original witness cannot be cross-examined. Terry said the code was designed to include such factors as hearsay evidence. He emphasized that the hearing room was not a court of law. He said Judge J. Dickinson Phillips, a 4th Circuit Court of Appeals justice, had designed the Code so that amateurs — students — could apply it. Solicitor Mike Tantillo noted the system as designed is “not an adversarial system.” Rather, he said, the hearing process is an attempt to find the truth.