Friday, January 13, 1984 / The Davidsonian ~ ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Short Courses Provide Fun, Self-Improvement
By JOHN GATHINGS

Only a few hours remain to sign up for the Union Board's extravaganza featuring Will Terry, lots of wine, and ladies' nightgowns. All play a part in the upcoming variety of short courses, offered annually to students interested in pursuing self-improvement, exploring human rights, or just learning new hobbies. Courses range from the excitement of clogging to a serious examination of Christian giving.

Amnesty International is sponsoring a free series of lectures by a variety of Davidson professors which will focus on different aspects of human rights. Associate professor of philosophy Lance Stell will talk about the topic from a philosophical point of view. Providing a historical angle, political science professor Brian Shaw will speak on the “political ramifications of human rights” according to AI coordinator Hunter Monroe. Shaw will concentrate his talk on Latin America.

Chaplain Charlie Summers and Chapel Committee Co-chairman Scott Brady are teaming up to examine the problem of “How Much is Enough” in the charity of Christians. Brady says that since many Davidson students are financially secure, he and Summers decided there was a need for discussion of how far a person should go in giving money to the needy. By reviewing biblical examples, Brady hopes to make it easier for students to confront this issue.

The lighter side of short courses includes a five-session wine tasting course, lessons in color analysis, bridge, clogging, and knitting. For those desiring a personal touch in nightwear, an English smocking course is being offered. To be taught on Mondays by The Needlecraft Center, the course provides instruction on the skill of smocking ladies' nightgowns.

On the “heavy” side are two courses aimed at widening culinary horizons. For the sixth consecutive year Ruth Pittard is offering a course on bread baking. Pittard enjoys teaching the class, charging only one dollar which goes to cover the cost of ingredients. She does not feel right about charging for her time spent teaching the course, because “it’s really a fun thing to do. I enjoy it a lot!” She offers the opportunity for students to come back and learn more about baking in general. She has been baking for 10-12 years and says she is “glad to teach anybody who expresses an interest in baking.”

Dean of Students Will Terry will lead the second course on culinary skills, teaching southern cooking. Terry characterizes his menu as “old southern fare,” featuring country ham, grits, cheese soufflé, and vegetables cooked in ham hocks. Although he said, “I would doubt I am a famous cook on campus,” he feels confident his 20 years of cooking provide a background for instruction.

Trivial Pursuit Satisfies The College Bowl Addict
By MIKE STEPHENS

At last something has been done for those long and frustrating off seasons for all the would-be College Bowlers out there. Trivial Pursuit, the new and surprisingly popular game of knowledge, chance, and skill, has finally arrived.

For those who have yet to hear about Trivial Pursuit, an explanation is in order. The object is simple: each player or team of players travels around a game board, answering questions from categories which include Sports and Leisure, Arts and Literature, Geography, Entertainment, History, and Science and Nature. The player receives a colored piece for each correct answer. Upon securing the six necessary colors, the player must reach the center hexagon and answer a question in a category chosen by the other players.

That’s all there is to it, but for trivia addicts, Trivial Pursuit represents a golden opportunity to fine-tune their skills. The questions range from obscure historical facts about famous persons to rather up-to-date information. The following look at the categories shows they cover their material well.

Sports and Leisure: This section includes questions about Ty Cobb and the formula of several barroom favorites. From curling to crewing, it’s all here.

Science and Nature: Scientific trivia is an odd area. This is probably the weakest section in the game, hedging against asking any hard-core science questions. Most involve facts about nature and are often on the obscure side. The chemists and physicists were definitely slighted.

History: Well done, but...Not particularly easy for one who is simply a history buff. The facts included in this section really deserve the term trivia. Often historical facts and trivia are confused. History is who delivered the Gettysburg Address. Trivia is a question about Abraham Lincoln’s unusual facial characteristics. (Yes, that is an actual question.)

Arts and Literature: Self-explanatory. Expect everything from the Mona Lisa and Sherlock Holmes to Warhol’s Marilyn Monroe silkscreens. Unpredictable but not impossible.

Geography: Not the most exciting category. It does, however, offer a wealth of obscure facts. A person well-versed on state capitals and little-known points of the globe will like this category.

Entertainment: Now this is real trivia. Be prepared to rack your brain to place such persons as the elusive Mrs. Calabash and Warren Beatty’s sister. A healthy interest in old movies and TV shows does not go unrewarded. Both the most interesting and frustrating category on the board.

The set contains 1,000 cards with six questions per card. With a total of 6,000 questions, it is almost impossible to hear the same question twice in one game. An average game lasts several hours, and loose-fitting clothes are advised. Moderate doses are also prescribed, because Trivial Pursuit is addictive. Three other sets of 6,000 questions ($15 per set) are currently available, each in a specialized field. The game currently sells for $25, if you can find it. It’s a hefty investment, but for anyone who gets cold sweats all summer due to trivia deprivation, Trivial Pursuit is worth the capital outlay.

By STEVE MANK

Punk rock was not pretty. In fact, its sole objective seemed to be to create the most raucous, banal, non-music possible. But early, hardcore punk gave rise to more listenable forms that, though they do nothing to hide their influences, stand on their own as positive, musical forces. X’s new LP, More Fun in the New World, goes far beyond the Los Angeles punk scene. The band’s command of cynical irony blends easily.

The album opens with the semi-title track “The New World.” This jocular rambling commentary on the U.S. today has something (not necessarily nice) to say about every aspect of domesticated home-life in relation to the government, finally ending with references to the old Motown hit, “Dancing in the Streets.” On “I Must Not Think Bad Thoughts” bassist John Doe and vocalist Exene (ex-EE-nuh) Cervenka together chant a hypnotic mantra of death, destruction, and other nasty stuff. The lyrics, though at first glance innocent, point out the kind of hypocrisy that taints foreign affairs.

Elsewhere the brash, forceful music pummels its way through an unrelenting barrage of songs as Exene’s sometimes lilting, sometimes harsh voice sings of forgotten memories, doomsday, drunkenness, and mid-life depression. If all this seems to reverberate a certain other L.A.-based band of days gone by, it is not by coincidence. Ray Manzarek, the keyboardist for the Doors, was responsible for production of the recording, and, as he was the Doors’ primary musical force, his influence on the X sound is clearly more than passive.

Musically X is imperfect, and the lyrics, though good, still leave much to be desired. But X does something very few bands are able to do — create a mood. The tight integration of lyrics and music on songs such as “Painting the Town Blue,” truly allow one to feel the depression of a woman who is really all alone in the world. And having achieved that, any imperfection just disappears.

If X’s relationship to punk proves that the end justifies the means, ABC’s Beauty Stab efficiently brings new meaning to the phrase fluff and nonsense. By meticulously incorporating every possible cliché (and a few impossible ones) the insipid vocals contrast with the delightfully lush background of pre-programmed synthesizers. If there’s one thing the fifties taught us it is that there is no place in popular music for image-conscious musical idiocy — well, most of us, that is.