8 Friday, May 4, 1984 / The Davidsonian

By STEVE MANK

Somehow, it must be written in the stars that a Joe Jackson record review should begin, “Joe Jackson is the kind of artist who likes to pursue a new musical direction with each album he makes, and his latest is no exception.” To Joe, always changing must keep his interest piqued, but the reviews must get pretty redundant. Joe has pursued new wave, rock 'n’ roll, and has even, on his last effort, Night and Day, delved into the realm of nightclub music. Each style is different, and each, if nothing more, is interesting. His latest L.P. Body and Soul is, um, no exception.

The latest motif Jackson explores is soft jazz in the sixties tradition which sounds more like his previous album than any other album has ever sounded like any other album. Even the cover is like a time warp, with its catalogue number written as large as the title and its liner notes on the back. The notes are fun in and of themselves. There is an exhaustive explanation of the recording process and a full, sparkling review of the album within.

The first track of the album begins with “The Verdict,” a Herb Alpertesque commentary on people that are unhappy based loosely on the Paul Newman movie. The horn reveries grab the listener's attention effectively, but just when Jackson has the listener where he wants him or her, he shrinks back into adequate piano-playing and frankly clichéd lyrics — “Some people live so fast; They're so scared of getting old.” “The Verdict,” a fair song, resigns itself to two songs that might as well be throwaways. Jackson, it would seem, does not know the difference between a slow song and one void of power. A song, whatever the speed, should be able to reach out and grab you; it is hard to believe that an artist of Jackson’s integrity would be satisfied with jostling you a little bit with background music.

The final cut on the first side, “Go For It,” does offer some hope, however. The buoyant beat and carnival keyboards recall Elvis Costello, yet are tastefully different. The lyrics, again, use about as many clichés as the first song and, not only that, they are pretty much the same clichés.

Side two opens with a “pan to Sam and Jenny making love in the surf” theme, an instrumental called, “Loisaida.” Its rolling movements are interesting, but they come so close to being good that you almost resent Jackson’s teasing you the way he does. Once again, he rescues the ailing listener with perhaps the best song on the album, “Happy Ending,” a peppy introspective song in the Sergio Mendes genre about a — you guessed it — happy ending, after which the album fades out with quite the opposite.

The most annoying thing about Body and Soul is that Joe Jackson always comes so close to something good, only to falter at the last minute. Basically, the L.P. succeeds in recalling a lost age, but he never really makes any improvements on it. Where he could make a daring statement, Jackson is content merely to fall back onto predictable old hat. Most importantly, the album’s only statement is its peculiarity — it is the best of its kind today, but it has no competition. Were it released back when everyone was doing what Jackson is doing now, it would amount to little more than a drop in the bucket.

Man Without His Art Is

By MATT MORRIS

“It was time for a bit of the old"Ultra-violence," intones Alex (Malcolm McDowell) at the opening of Stanley Kubrick’s visionary satire, *A Clockwork Orange*. What is the "ultra-violence" that this bowler-hatted young lad with false eyelashes speaks of? In the druggy drool of nightmarish London circa 1985, the classic English Teddy Boy, now called a "Droog," has graduated from riding motorscooters to banging old drunks over the head with billy clubs. *Clockwork* reflects the confusion and delusion of any age with remarkable taste and technical virtuosity. Kubrick’s genius glows here as his frighteningly objective camera follows Alex’s violent, rebellious life, watching but never commenting on the garishly dehumanized collective identity that every so-called "social scientist" loves so much. Malcolm McDowell tortures people for the sheer pleasure of it. In *Clockwork*’s bland world filled with preachy preachers, sterile "erotic" art, and vile corruption, what could possibly be more fun than straight sadism? An evil notion, but ultimately accurate. Each nauseatingly graphic image works as a relief, a sedative to the staid monotony of a droog’s computerized world. The key signature to "Singin’ In The Rain," one of Alex’s favorite brutality tunes, matches perfectly the rhythm of a swift kick into the side of an innocent. Each of the droog’s violent rumbles retains a balletic pace; the old ultra-violence becomes a reactionary creative expression, a performance piece served up with all the charm of a Gene Kelly movie. Sick? You bet, but Alex’s choreographed terrorism is far more artistically appealing, and strangely more humane, than the rest of the dehumanized world.

Taken almost directly from English writer Anthony Burgess’s future-shock novel of the same title, *A Clockwork Orange* becomes Kubrick satire at its best, condemning present-day ironies and conflicts through sci-fi parody. Interestingly enough, Burgess’s wife was raped and killed by three American soldiers during the Second World War, and perhaps it was this incident that inspired the scathing novel. Yet the film’s overwhelming power belongs entirely to Kubrick, and it is his mastery of cinema that propels *Clockwork*. Using the most minimal light possible, each sequence retains a steamy documentary look, and the cinema-verité viewpoint (the use of a hand-held camera randomly following the action) adds a touch of harsh realism to the proceedings. At one point, Alex jumps from a high window and Kubrick, ever the observer, actually follows McDowell's suicidal plunge by throwing his camera out of the window, making for a hair-raising subjective viewpoint. 

*A Clockwork Orange* is not only about what is said, but how each scene is presented. Kubrick notoriously drops visual clues right and left, enhancing *Clockwork*’s allegorical connotations. Each picture, each frame of the film contains within a careful, thought-out composition that leads to deeper revelation. Snakes, phalli, and overflowing erotic images twist and turn their way through the film, showing the act of sex as both ritual and commodity. When Alex is ultimately punished for his sins, Big Brother wields a paddle worse than death. Through medication and subliminal, hypnotic messages, Alex’s romantic interests, those passions which define him as human, are ripped from his soul. After the "corrective" therapy, which seems a far more terrifying cruelty than anything Alex ever dealt out, the mere sound of his favorite composer, "Ludwig Van" (Beethoven), sends Alex into delirious aural agony. Alex is a broken human — a man without violence but also without love, without art. And what, Kubrick asks, is man without his art but a clockwork orange?

---

Keg beer: Order in advance
Wine and Beer by the case: Cost plus 10%
Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St.-Davidson, N.C 28036 - 892-7521