Friday, September 28, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Silkwood Traces Nuclear Worker’s Last Days
By MATT MORRIS

Silkwood (1983)
Starring Meryl Streep, Kurt Russell, and Cher.
Directed by Mike Nichols.
8 p.m. tonight in Love Auditorium. $1.50.

In 1974, Karen Silkwood, an employee of a Kerr-McGhee nuclear plant, was killed in a car crash. Many believe that
Silkwood was carrying an exposé against her employer to a meeting with a Washington Post reporter and was intentionally sideswiped
by a frightened nuclear-union member. The fact that she was up to her neck in a woman-who-knew-too-much intrigue becomes a
moot point in the film Silkwood, showing tonight in Love Auditorium.

Refusing to play detective (any attempt at political statement remains obscure), the movie instead retains a stark approach to the
narrative. It’s a film about the working class — ordinary folk suddenly lost in extraordinary surroundings. Centering on Karen Silkwood
(Meryl Streep), her boyfriend Drew (Kurt Russell), and her lesbian roommate Dolly (Cher), all Kerr-McGhee employees, the movie follows each
of these characters during the days leading to Silkwood’s untimely death.

As the title character, Meryl Streep generally convinces, though she is not entirely successful. Streep’s “y’alls” are carefully placed and
each cigarette southernly lit, yet in the early segments she is “thinking” too much and her Silkwood becomes a caricature
instead of a character. Spontaneity finally bleeds in, and Streep plays more on instinct; she playfully romps through life, snatching
fellow employees’ lunches like a feisty Puck. New Yorker Streep even manages to capture a bit of southern pride —
in the face of shifty bureaucrats, Silkwood asserts her position in an honest, forceful way.

Cher and Kurt Russell, both capable performers, give strong efforts here, but their time on screen is much too brief.
Dolly’s feelings toward Karen are fascinating but soon forgotten; similarly, it’s hard to tell how Drew will react to Karen
simply because we don’t get to know him very well. Still, both make an imprint, and Russell in particular has
a knack for making something out of nothing (think of his TV-movie performance as Elvis Presley). His love scenes with
Silkwood light up the dreary Texan setting with heartfelt giggles, tears, and embraces. We get the idea that Drew and
Karen, like all good lovers, know what the other thinks and can anticipate the other’s emotions. If only we could
understand Drew and Dolly as well as Silkwood does, the supporting performances might seem more complete.

Director Mike Nichols has constructed Silkwood as a series of long standstill camera shots that allow the characters and settings
to lock firmly in the mind. For the most part Silkwood is a quiet film; Nichols realizes working-class emptiness by
filming his performers saying and doing nothing. This technique creates a highly atmospheric effect, yet Nichols is careful not to
overuse his static iconography and includes evocative symbolism in the frame — watch how flags are placed in this film.

Ultimately, Silkwood evokes the feel of a midwestern nuclear town hanging on the edge of contamination while retaining certain moral
principles. We see town meetings, proud old men, children scurrying about.At MacDonald's, people are loving and having a good time
with each other. Then, during the controversy and Karen's subsequent investigation, we see a sudden inversion of morality — suspicion,
fear, guilt, and finally death. The movie opens and closes with the song “Amazing Grace,” and the lyrics, as sung
by Streep, perfectly capture what the movie is all about — humankind waiting for sweeter sounds and finer paradises.

Chaos, Culture Highlight Rollicking Tom Jones
By CRAIG DETWEILER

Tom Jones (1963)
Starring Albert Finney, Susannah York, Hugh Griffith, Edith Evans, Joyce Redman, and David Warner.
Directed by Tony Richardson.
Saturday, 8 p.m. Love Auditorium.

Having to compress 800 pages of refined English literature into an entertaining two hours can be a weighty problem. In
a miraculous feat of filmmaking, producer-director Tony Richardson, writer John Osborne, and a spirited ensemble manage to convey the chaos,
culture, and biting satire that dominate Henry Fielding’s Tom Jones. Twentieth-century cinematic invention creates a rollicking seventeenth-century England.

Tom Jones traces the maturation of the amorous, amiable title character. Born a foundling, Tom overcomes his lamentable situation to
win the hearts of numerous ladies and the scorn of many well-bred “gentlemen.” Dramatic tension arises from Tom's secret love
for the cultivated Sophie Western. As the adopted son of Squire Allworthy, he must compete with the Squire's stuffy nephew,
Master Blifil, for inheritance, respect, and Sophie. While all social institutions and mores work against Tom, his genuineness and benevolence
compensate for his weaker background. In a journey from Hampshire to London, Tom encounters the ways and wiles of the
world, striving to remain true to his beloved Sophie.

Physical comedy, light satire, word games, and barbs aimed directly at the audience make the potentially serious episodes into rich,
funny escapades. Technical precision and imaginative performances combine to produce the desired effect — satire and salute to the bawdy,
affected affairs of the English aristocracy. Filmed throughout Great Britain, Tom Jones feels like it is set in Fielding’s world.
Rolling pastures, country estates, chaotic barnyards, and depraved cities comprise the believable backdrop. Jumpy, close-up camera angles communicate the revelry
present at period hunts and banquets.

Brilliant casting provides character actors who appear almost grotesque. The stern Square and Thwackum look leaden and unapproachable. Hugh Griffith
makes an effective Squire Western because his big nose, unkempt hair, and bugged-out eyes jibe with the crazed, lovable character.
As Tom Jones, a surprisingly young Albert Finney actually appears to be gullible, good-hearted, and ornery. With their visual cues
defined, the cast of Tom Jones is left to embody the affectations and spirit of the 18th century. In numerous
eating, drinking, and frolicking scenes, the ensemble captures the pure, opulent self-indulgence that Fielding reveals in the novel.

With cast, set, and atmosphere realized effectively, the viewer can concentrate upon the complicated story. The resulting entertainment carries both
a celebratory tone and a serious comment on predatory lifestyles and relationships. Fielding’s absurd, totally incredible plot twists create great
pleasure. Just when one believes Fielding wouldn't dare to include another uncanny coincidence, another occurs. The funniest scenes revolve around
the Inn at Upton. Foreshadowing the conclusion of the tale, the Inn at Upton serves as the converging point of
most major characters. The classic eating scene between Tom and Mrs. Waters combines tension of hilarious hedonism and revolting indulgence.
Their affected sexuality makes one laugh and wince at the same time.

While the convoluted plot may frustrate the viewer, Tom Jones delivers in the surprise, efficient ending. Appearing to belittle and
simplify the tremendous series of events which preceded it, the conclusion actually serves to reestablish order within the confused society.
Approach Tom Jones for true cinematic delight, with the extravagant lifestyles supplying laughter and joy. The concise ending hints that
the almost grotesque, abusive scenes beforehand are not supposed to carry devastating weight. Just as Fielding wanted to teach and
entertain, the cast and crew of Tom Jones aim for laughter with a light message. As one laughs at the
horrendous hypocrisy of the characters, the similarities between their vice and our own emerge.

DELIVERY 7 DAYS A WEEK
8:30 — 11:45
892-8686
