4 Friday, March 30, 1984 / The Davidsonian

By IDA PHILLIPS

The Rusk Scholars visiting Davidson are having no difficulties blending into the college community. The modest group, composed of Zachary
Dovey, Thomas Giles, Rachel Johnson, Gigi Letts, Rosamund Oddie, and Alistair Summers, explained that their selection as scholars had little
to do with academic excellence. Enrolled at St. Paul’s in London, the students were chosen from thirty applicants on the
basis of a letter and an interview.

Members of the group cited various reasons for entering the competition, Johnson’s being an interest in the “animal house image
of American colleges.” Besides envisioning a Hollywood-created college, the students had an image of the typical American. They described the
prototype as being “loud,” “funny,” “great fun,” and a “bloody good chap.” Giles imagined these characters could be found “playing
basketball or hanging around McDonald’s with chewing gum in their mouths.” But Oddie added that she had yet to meet
“any of those wonderful people.”

Since Hardee's is the nearest fast food joint, the students have not encountered many McDonald’s groupies at Davidson. Instead, they
have discovered that Davidson students are “extremely nice” and have eagerly welcomed these six neophytes. Although they have met a
few “oddballs,” they have concluded that for the most part Davidson students are generic types. “The students are very conventional.
Their behavior and the way they dress is all similar,” said Oddie.

Always eager to broaden their cultural horizons, Davidson students have made great efforts to acquaint themselves with the six from
St. Paul’s. Giles found it amusing that “people come up to you and say, ‘I love your accent, will you
please say something?’ And all you have to do is say y’all and they start screaming.” Dovey found the Southern
twang equally fascinating, particularly when being contorted into the French language in class.

The group noted some striking differences between American and British students’ attitudes towards their bodies and minds. They found members
of the Richard Simmons/Jane Fonda era extremely fit. “It’s odd to see so many girls on the track or jogging
around,” observed Oddie. “Girls don’t do that much at home.” Yet the students revealed that an emphasis on the body
can leave the mind neglected. “There’s very little talk about life outside of Davidson. People at home aren’t super-political but
there’s little discussion of politics here,” observed Dovey. Oddie added, “If students at Davidson talk about intellectual things, it’s usually
about their courses, or the dating dilemma.”

Pronouncing the first syllable of dilemma with a long “i” as in “die,” the group seemed very intrigued by this
mysterious Davidson malady. They noticed a distinct segregation between the sexes at Davidson, which they attributed to fraternities and all-women
eating houses. “There are not that many cross friendships, particularly among freshmen,” one observed. They were particularly perplexed by the
fact that unisex establishments often have parties solely with students from other schools. They wondered if this defeated the purpose
of going to school together.

Each scholar is enrolled in two courses, one of which they audit. This relatively light course load grants the students
an abundance of time to enjoy their American counterparts. “We're Rusk Scholars so we expect to be entertained,” joked Giles.

Town Zoning Rules Forbid WDAV Move

(continued from page 1)

that WDAV’s problem is not unique. He said there is a problem with lack of office space all over campus.
There is the possibility that WDAV may move into the space vacated by the Student Store, if the College decides
to move the Student Store into the Post Office on Main Street when the Post Office moves to its new
location. But Clark pointed out that competition for the Student Store space is rather diverse. “Not only would the College
Union liketo utilize that space for student functions, but so would the Careers Office, the Counseling services, and the Alumni
Offices—all of which presently share space with WDAV—like to expand their locations [into the Student Store]. Clark would like to
remove WDAV from that competitive picture. Clark explained three goals for WDAV. The first is to relocate. The second is
to improve its present 20,000-watt broadcasting power. The third is to get “an increased commitment from the college congruent with
the station’s needs,” Clark said. “WDAV has been a fully professional program since 1978. Each year the college has supplied
the station with space, electricity within the station, and $30,000. But that is no longer enough. Not only do we
need more space but our personnel costs are around $90,000 a year.

Laughlin Elected President (continued from page 1)

a new all-women’s eating house forming next year. Laughlin is personally interested in students having more input in Trustee decisions.
He sees the Trustees as the “crux of power” on campus and hinted that there would be SGA proposals in
the coming year designed to better communicate student opinion to the Board. Woo would like to make SGA a more
vital part of the student body on campus. “People tend to overlook the value of SGA as a working body
because many of their actions have no immediate effect,” she said. She cited the security problem which was brought to
the attention of Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze as an example of the organization’s effectiveness. The newly elected officers were
pleased by the strong turnout which they saw as an increased awareness and interest in SGA by the student body.
Laughlin and Woo wished to express their strong commitment to reporting accurately the views of the student body.

Clark also pointed out that WDAV is not qualified to receive government funds channeled through the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
Because of its already cramped quarters, WDAV has no redundant studio room (a room which provides extra space for interviews
and other production tasks)—the only requirement WDAV does not meet for CPB funding. Clark estimates that WDAV could have received
$35,000 last year from the CPB. “Hopefully when we find out what and where our future is to be, we
can make a request for the funds we qualify for,” Clark said. “It would be nice to tell our subscribers
that all donations go directly for programming.”

Central America Protest (continued from page 1)

approached. “It’s sad. This is supposed to be our political process,” she said. “But it’s important to keep talking in
any way possible.” The three went to Washington in a rented car and stayed Monday night in a friend’s house.
On Tuesday they met with members of regional state delegations. There, they received a briefing on the current status of
the pertinent aid bills. The group also discussed the arguments of proponents of military aid. A professional lobbyist spoke on
the best way to approach and question congressmen. After a rally on the Capitol steps, they began lobbying in earnest
with a trip to Helms’ office. There they talked with an aide who, King said, “made no effort to pay
any attention to us.” The Davidson students then split off from the North Carolina delegation and met with the representatives
from Florida. They tried to pinpoint the congressmen’s positions, but, said Holbrook, “you can’t tell. They are wizards at not
telling what they think.” King said that the trip benefitted him by putting factual support behind a moral decision. It
“has affirmed my position by letting me know more about the situation,” he said. Holbrook said she went because “I
strongly believe our policy in Central America is wrong. There is real danger for the U.S. as well as for
the people of Central America. So when this day came up, I went to do what I could.”
