14 Friday, September 14, 1984 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Production Manager
Kevin Horan, Business Manager
Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor
Will Thomason, Advertising Manager
Ross Holt, Editor

The Real Problem

Does Davidson have a drug problem? Maybe. But the Dean’s office’s latest efforts to get the campus “on the wagon,”
so to speak, might create problems. It is paramount that the Dean’s office, as in all of its disciplinary actions,
must enforce the new policy fairly. For example, many have accused the Dean’s office of “targeting” particular individuals or groups
on campus. Whether this happens or not, the rumors do exist. It’s also somewhat of a given that freshmen are
policed more so than upperclassmen. Those under age 19 can’t legally drink, but it seems illicit freshman drug use has
received more attention than freshman drinking. The Dean’s office must strive to eliminate or neutralize these perceptions; if it cannot,
it will be without the support of a segment of the community as it tackles the perceived “problem.”

The harsher policies, though, are not exclusively punitive. The hiring of a drug counselor should aid more fully those who
develop drug problems. As Dean Terry has said before: “If a student has a drug problem, and they can’t solve
it, then we can give them time to seek help.” Let’s hope a policy to curtail drug use doesn’t in
turn become a problem itself.

Once More, With Feeling

We discussed Davidson’s race problems in our last editorial of spring term. That editorial followed two R.A.C.E. forums and weeks
of commentary, sometimes vituperative, in The Davidsonian’s Opinions section. Fortunately, however, spring term ended on a happy, if somewhat apprehensive
note. The Trustees began to take notice of the problem and a rally during the last week of classes brought
many students together to celebrate the gains, rather than recapitulate the anger, of the term.

As articles in today’s Opinions section point out, however, students, Trustees, and administrators cannot lose the momentum built up by
the impassioned discussion in the spring. To do so would sink race problems into the same quagmire as self-selection and
athletics, where serious concerns emerge time and again, only to be resubmerged as people become bored with them. If this
happens, the impetus for change will fade away, and with it any Black presence at Davidson.

We heartily commend President Kuykendall for helping carry through this initiative. The Presidential Advisory Committee for Project '87 will be
a crucial step toward some kind of racial equity here. But as we stated last spring, the “powers that be”
must listen to the voices of students and committees and College presidents. Students can change each other’s attitudes, and maybe
even those of their professors and administrators. Only the Trustees can make the structural changes necessary for healthy race relations
awareness at Davidson.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available
on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Boyd Blackburn, Ted Wilson, Assistant News Editors; Richard Cloudt, Andrea Diedrich, Chris Fisher, Roxanna Guilford, Jay Hurt, KarlLorenz,
Shane Meeks, Tom Schilling, Chandon Sinlia, Lee White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Corliss Carter, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris, Andrew Wilson

Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Assistant Sports Editor; Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley

Photography Staff: Carroll Overton, Assistant Photography Editor; Brad Brechtelsbauer, Kevin Horan, Rocky Kmeicik, Laura McGee

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Laurin de Beck, Joanneke Brentjens, John Redding, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Jay Hurt, Kevin Horan, Brooke Knight

Compositors: Anne Lambert, Lisa Lano, Martha Yeide

Circulation: David McCurry, Manager

In the summer of '84, the dynamic duo receive an urgent call from the DL housing office.

"That's tomorrow, Robin! There's not much time! Call Commissioner Gordon and tell him the Joker will have to wait. To
the Bat-Mobile!"

"Holy housing shortage, Batman! By September 4th, a new dorm will be ready!"

"Leaping lounges and lofts, Batman! The Bat Anti-Housing Shortage Pump is working!"

"No time to lose, Boy Wonder! There's the Bat Signal over the Athletic Complex!"

LETTERS

The Davidsonian is your chance to make your views known. The opinions section is an open forum available to everyone
who wishes to make a statement about what is important to them. The Davidsonian both encourages and requires your input.
If you feel strongly about any issue of major or personal concern, write it down and present it to a
Davidsonian staff member, or bring it to the paper offices.

The Davidsonian "Opinions" section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions
articles on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community. We adhere to these guidelines:

1) We require that all articles be in our hands at 7 p.m. Monday.
2) We accept typed articles and those written legibly, double-spaced.
3) We require that opinions be signed. We will print unsigned articles only if a compelling reason exists for withholding
the author’s name, and the author is known to either the editor or executive editor.
4) We will not edit opinions for style or content but we reserve the right to edit for rules of
common English. We will inform the author of substantial changes.
5) Since space for Opinions articles is limited, we reserve the right to select articles from those we receive for
publication. We will attempt to print any article we withhold from publication for space reasons the next week.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere to
these four guidelines:

1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2) We require that letters be neatly typed.
3) We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.
4) We reserve the right not to print letters that:
a) function as advertisements;
b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes;
c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in other letters printed on the same topic.
