= Friday, January 20, 1984 / The Davidsonian 15

Death Penalty No Deterrent
Randy Matthews

Deterrence of crime is most often used to justify the death penalty. Studies throughout the last 30 years state that
capital punishment provides no such deterrent. Thorsten Sellin’s study is most often cited. Sellin compared the crime rates in states
which did and did not have capital punishment and found no significant difference. Michigan abolished the death penalty in 1859.
Yet Michigan’s crime rate remained as low as that of Ohio and Indiana, both of which had capital punishment.

The notion of deterrence assumes that potential murderers use rational judgment to govern their behavior. Yet most murders are committed
in the heat of passion. The perpetrators do not have an opportunity to weigh the costs until too late. As
such, the recidivism rate is very low for murder. The point of killing someone to prevent them from further murders
is not valid. Even premeditated crimes are rarely affected by capital punishment’s threat. Most people who commit such crimes believe
they will not be caught. The evidence shows that capital punishment cannot be an effective crime deterrent.

Many people claim that the murder victim’s family should be the primary concern: How do the children feel about their
mother’s killer living for years at the taxpayers’ expense? Yet the family gains nothing from the execution. These criminals can
work to earn money for the victim’s family and to help pay for prison expenses. Prison systems in Arizona, Kansas,
and Minnesota prove the feasibility of this concept. In Minnesota, convicts work in a prison producing computer parts. Prisoners in
Kansas and Arizona produce sheet metal and jewelry. Society should not execute prisoners when they can work to provide restitution
for their victims’ families.

Still another justification of capital punishment maintains that many prisoners deserve to die. This statement may be true in many
cases. Yet men make mistakes. Many people have been executed in the United States only to have the real criminal
confess later. Watt Espy, who has done much research on American executions, claims that 10 innocent men have been executed
in Alabama alone. He has found similar cases in virtually every other state. What should society do after an innocent
man has been executed? How do we comfort his widow and children? Placing an apologetic tombstone over his grave would
accomplish nothing. As long as humanity is fallible, we should never invoke irrevocable punishments.

Matthews is a senior religion major from Charlotte, N.C. (This article also appeared in The Charlotte Observer.)

Simple Retribution
Steve Shriver

In today’s society several norms have been abandoned or discarded because they are supposedly ineffective or impractical. One such norm
is the punishment of convicted criminals. It appears that society at large does have some sense of justice but they
have a great misinterpretation as to how that justice should be carried out. Most people would agree that a person
who robs a bank should go to jail, but what about people who rape innocent women in their own homes,
or murder old men for their social security checks? How does society react to crimes of malicious intent or violent
crimes committed by repeat offenders?

The answer today seems to be rehabilitation or treatment for those persons who cannot, for one reason or another, control
their desire to murder, rape, or both. I have one reply to this kind of bleeding heart concept: what about
the victims and their families who have to live with the memory of a daughter raped by a repeat offender
or the son who died because a drunk driver ran into him? These violent crimes should be punished with the
severity of the crime. If a man murders, he should know that his fate will be execution, not two years
and time off for good behavior. If a man violently rapes a woman, then he ought to realize that he
will suffer death at the hands of the society he has offended. I am not advocating what some would call
justified murder, I just advocate simple retribution for violent crimes that this society should not take as lightly as has
been evidenced by our current judicial system. Murder is a violent crime that can be deterred by only one really
effective measure, capital punishment. Think about it: if you eliminate the people...that are murdering, then they cannot murder more than
once. And once is more than enough. Shriver is a freshman from Rocky Mount, NC.

A Few Informal Fallacies
David Resnik

Instead of boring you with another response to “The Kernel of Faith,” I would like to point out a few
informal fallacies that were committed in last week’s opinions section. In his article “Christianity Does Not Exclude Reason,” Hunter Monroe
said he does not doubt the rationality of Lorenz and Cooper because “they both made 4.0s freshman year.” He also
mentions that C.S. Lewis did not abandon his rationality because he is a “triple honors graduate at Harvard.” Both of
these arguments are blatant appeals to authority. Am I to believe something just because my political or intellectual superior tells
me to believe it? Should we believe what Monroe says because he is a Rhodes Scholar? I am particularly disappointed
with Monroe’s association of scholarly people with scholarly ideas. One wonders if he would use the same kind of argument
if he weren’t a scholar himself.

Charles Wiley commits the same fallacy when he states that “thinkers such as Sartre, Kant, and perhaps even Hume have
acknowledged that reality may extend beyond the range of rational thought.” Wiley also said he hardly thinks any of us
“would accuse Aquinas or Einstein of abandoning their minds, yet both believed in God.” Wiley also commits the fallacy of
Argumentum ad Hominem (circumstantial) in stating that Eric Hill makes an error when “he uses a definition of faith from
one whose anti-faith stand is well known.” This is like saying one cannot reject a Republican’s taxation policy because his/her
opposition to taxation is well known. There may be other reasons for rejecting a definition of faith or taxation, but
they cannot be based on the circumstances or incidental beliefs of the author.

Appeals to authority are sometimes legitimate. If one intends to learn about physics, then an appeal to Einstein might be
appropriate. Or if one wants some medical advice, then consulting a physician would be appropriate. But the question of Reason
and Faith is a philosophical issue, and no such authorities exist nor should they exist. If they did, then the
discipline would have ended when Plato finished his last dialogue. Oh, by the way, “The Kernel of Faith” opinion committed
no fallacies because it presented no arguments, unless we consider the whole article an appeal to authority — God.

Resnik is a Junior Philosophy major from Chapel Hill, N.C. and is Executive Editor of The Davidsonian.

and mentally. Through working with the 1983 Davidson football team, I have been fortunate to take part in an excelling
community of gifted student-athletes who have learned how to face the challenges of Davidson academics and athletics. Through their football
experience, these men are preparing themselves to face the challenges of the real world, because they must constantly work hard
not only in the classroom or on the field but in both phases of life. Many players choose difficult majors,
such as Physics, Pre-medicine, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Economics, to name a few, and still report to practice and games day
after day. Playing football at Davidson requires a commitment which most non-athletes never realize, and that ideal of commitment is
later reflected in the careers of each graduating player.

Davidson College indeed spends its money “on people, not trophies,” and with increased expenditures on better facilities and scholarships, Davidson
College will continue to spend its money on people. Dimmock comments that members of the college community who advocate athletics
“do not understand what Davidson is, was, or should be.” Well, according to the Catalog, “Davidson College is an institution
of higher learning.” The athletic department supports this statement of purpose by promoting higher learning through the development of the
individual athlete in all phases of life.

David G. Williams, Jr. ’87

Letters Policy
The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere to
certain guidelines: neatly typed, signed letters must be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday. Please include your phone number
and address. If you have a compelling reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.
We reserve the right to edit letters for length or clarity.
