Friday, March 23, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Candidates Present Opinions For SGA Elections

For President: Warren Gould

The president of the Student Government has many important duties. He presides over the Senate and the Student Executive Council;
he serves on the Student Conduct Council and Council on Campus and Religious Life. He also serves on a committee
which advises the College president on the upcoming Davidson College budget. And he is, except on rare occasions, the only
student allowed inside faculty and trustee meetings. For one person to fulfill successfully all these roles, he (using the term
generically) must be able to judge accurately campus sentiment, act judiciously and quickly in pressing situations, and provide the leadership
and commitment to motivate the Senate and execute its resolutions. The SGA President must be open-minded and willing to lay
aside his own biases when and if they do not coincide with campus opinion: his first priority is to represent
the students.

If elected, I would make working with Dr. Kuykendall a top priority. The presidential advisory paper, now almost completed, was
an excellent idea, and I would use the paper — actually more of a book — as the basis for
explaining student groups and opinions. Similarly, the College is conducting a “self-study” next year, and this is something with which
the SGA should also be actively involved. One of my major concerns at Davidson is the campus’ diversity, and I
would want this stressed: what would the College be doing to get more blacks at Davidson — and keep them
here; should the College recruit students from outside the Southeast; are financial aid cutbacks limiting the type of student who
can afford Davidson?

Security and athletics will continue to be important issues. The College will have a new security system by next fall,
but many students feel this will not be enough. And the more the SGA Athletic Committee studies the place of
intercollegiate sports at Davidson, the more complicated it realizes the issue is. Central to the problem is budgeting and emphasis:
many feel the non-revenue and smaller sports need to receive more emphasis in the sports program — namely, more money.
If this is the decision of the College, a re-examination of athletic goals is necessary. My personal goal would be
to make sure that student input is heard and seriously considered throughout the complex discussion.

In this week’s campaign I am emphasizing my past experience as well as my stands on issues and goals. For
it is my experience and my past performance in and out of the SGA which I feel especially makes me
the more qualified candidate. I have been a class senator continuously since the fall of my freshman year; I have
served under three different SGA presidents. I have served on such committees as the Student Conduct Council, the Commons Committee,
the SGA Weekend Committee, and the Presidential Advisory Paper Committee. I am currently Junior Class co-President. It has been my
work as chairman of the important Patterson Court Study Committee, however, which has especially taught me the importance of student
input and the value of solid organization, motivation, and leadership. Our committee conducted three surveys, two open forums, and one
referendum in which the campus voted on several social-system proposals, including ours — ours clearly received the most votes. The
changes we encouraged were, to the great satisfaction of our committee, almost wholly incorporated into the social system this year
by a committee newly established by Dean Terry. My work this fall and winter as social chairman of Pi Kappa
Alpha fraternity made me only further appreciate the qualities necessary in a leader.

I believe I possess these qualities — they are necessary to chair successfully an important committee; they are necessary to
plan, organize, and delegate the social life of a fraternity; and they are necessary to make a responsible and effective
SGA president. Experience is what I have come to realize gives such added competency to a difficult job. It means
more confidence, more knowledge. I have the necessary experience, I believe, and the competence to be your next SGA president.

For President: John Laughlin

The position of SGA president at Davidson is one which is extremely important because he or she is in the
capacity of representing the entire student body. Not only does he oversee the activities of the student government, but he
is one of the few mediums through which the students can input into Trustee, Administration, and Faculty decisions. The president
is the one student who has the privilege of speaking in front of these groups during their periodic meetings, and
is called on to represent accurately and fairly the student body of this institution. This person also has the responsibility
to initiate the creation and operation of committees or groups designed to perform certain tasks and address issues crucial to
student life at Davidson.

In order to perform these tasks well and efficiently, the president must have four outstanding qualities. First, he must have
the vision to identify the issues which truly concern the student body, and be able to set goals which address
these issues. Also, he must possess good organizational skills in order to manage the attainment of these goals. If one
avenue toward the resolution of an issue is blocked, he must have the ability to redirect efforts onto a more
effective path toward success. Third, the president must have the leadership skills necessary to motivate those around him to perform
tasks and get results. If SGA members are not enthusiastic and dedicated to their jobs, the goals ofthe group will
be compromised or remain unreached. Finally, the SGA president must have the year-long commitment necessary to perform his duties to
the best of his abilities. He must be committed to making the SGA as effective as possible, so the body
as a whole will have purpose and dynamism. I believe that I have these qualities and would like to use
them by serving as SGA president for the coming year. During the past three years and during the past year
in which I was co-president of the Junior Class, I have dedicated my energies to a number of SGA projects
and have worked hard for the students and the college. I have co-chaired the SGA Phonathon campaign which last year
raised over $100,000 for Davidson's Living Endowment. I have helped compile the Presidential Advisory Paper to be presented to Dr.
Kuykendall upon his arrival at the college; I have worked with the Semester Implementation and the Faculty Evaluation committees to
ensure that the voice of the student body was heard amongst the Faculty, and have served in the various positions
which are bestowed upon the president of each class. If I indeed have the honor to serve as SGA president,
there are several issues which I feel need attention. One important situation will be the coming of our new president
and the beginning of his term of office. Dr. Kuykendall appears to be a very receptive man and truly concerned
about student opinions and concerns. I would work to build strong ties with the president so that student views will
get utmost consideration. I will work for better relations with the Trustees, so that they also are well informed on
student issues; such items which they need to address are security on and off campus, as well as the intercollegiate
athletic situation at Davidson. Finally, I will strive for better relations between racial groups of the college, ensuring that steps
will be taken to open the door for more active interaction and communication between groups. I want to serve Davidson,
and more importantly, I want to serve my peers who have come to mean so much to me. I feel
that I will serve my colleagues well if elected to this office, and will strive to keep the traditions and
caliber of the student government and the college at their level of excellence.

For Vice-president: Beadsie Woo

Nearing the completion of my second term of office as a class senator, I feel that I have the experience
in and familiarity with the SGA Senate and its proceedings to effectively serve as SGA vice-president. In my two years,
I have served on three committees and have chaired one. Two of these committees were formed to deal with controversial
issues with which the student body had an active interest; they concerned the self-selection process and the implementation of the
semester system. I worked with Warren Gould on the self-selection question—polling student opinion, eliciting responses to possible alternatives, and raising
awareness of the problem. The end result and ultimate goal of the committee was the clarification of the system and
the institution of an administering committee to assure adherence to the rules. The process by which the end was reached
exposed me to the need for awareness-raising on the campus. I found that the academic emphasis of the college often
precluded the involvement and interest in campus issues and concerns. As vice-president, I would actively work for the continuance and
expansion of Lentz Ivey’s Project Participation (of which I am already a member). In working for a smooth transition from
trimesters to semesters, I accomplished several things: (1) the conveyance and expression of student opinion to the faculty; (2) the
establishment of an effective and cooperative line of communication between students, faculty, and administration; and (3) the realization and understanding
among students and faculty of the full implications of the change. The general attitude of the committee was one which
did not support the change itself, rather it advocated the smoothness of the transition and the minimization of its effects
on the students. As the chairman, I was pleased that the committee members were willing to work for the benefit
of the College. As the vice-president, I would seek students with similar attitudes and encourage their participation in the SGA.
I would also capitalize on the communication line, using it as an instrument by which to further the interests of
the students, faculty, and administration. Next year, the opportunities and responsibilities of the SGA will be much greater than in
past years. Next year could be one of the most active and successful years the SGA has ever experienced. I
hope to be an influential part of that year by serving as SGA’s vice-president.

For Vice-President: Jay Gaither

Over the past three years I’ve developed a feel for Davidson campus life. I like the school and the people
and I want to help in building as strong a student body as possible. My contact with people of all
walks of life has exposed me to a variety of attitudes and opinions, and I feel that my ability to
represent effectively has been enhanced as a result. I’m open-minded, honest, and enthusiastic and my previous experience with student government
gives me the ability to be an effective vice-president. Prior to Davidson, I worked for six years with student government,
often representing my school in state, regional, and national workshops and conventions. The bottom line is representation. Who do you
feel will best reflect your ideals in your student government? I hope you'll vote “diversity.”
