THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXIII, Number 12
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, January 13, 1984

Hunter Monroe Wins Rhodes Scholarship
By LISA THOMAS

Senior Hunter Monroe received what he termed “the greatest honor of his life” Dec. 17 when he became Davidson’s 21st recipient of the Rhodes Scholarship. Monroe’s selection was based on an application and two interviews. Of the 32 nationwide recipients, Monroe was one of two from the six-state southeastern district and the only winner from North Carolina.

When asked about the interviews, Monroe said that many questions were directed to his interest in economic aid. “That’s the one thing I might do as a career,” he said. The interviews emphasized a computer program which Monroe developed in conjunction with Chairman of the Economic Department Clark Ross. The program suggests solutions and strategies for reducing food deficits in eight West African countries. The project, which was commissioned through Ross, who is an economic consultant on Africa for the U.S. government, came from a request from the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) in Paris. The U.S. government will provide the program as a planning tool to the developing countries.

Questions also centered on Monroe’s time spent doing mission work in Zaire and his participation in Davidson’s Cambridge Program. Mathematics professor Lunsford King attributes much of Monroe’s success to his varied interests and positive attitude. He said that Monroe’s “enthusiasm for mathematics carries into other areas, and he has lots of energy.” Monroe also said, “most of the other students I was competing with were on semester systems and were right in the middle of exams. I think that was an important edge for me — that we are on trimesters.”

The scholarship pays for all fees and tuition for a two- to three-year stay at Oxford University in England and provides for living expenses as well. Monroe wants to enter Oxford’s Balliol College for a bachelor’s degree in Philosophy of Politics and Economy.

Monroe’s selection puts Davidson in a fifth place tie with Bowdoin College for the number of Rhodes Scholarship recipients among liberal arts colleges. However, Monroe does not feel that this will affect future selection decisions. “They don’t consider things like that. They like to choose the best candidates, contrary to what most people think. A lot of people think they choose at least one native and at least one male from each state.” As winner of Virginia Polytechnic Institute Regional Mathematics contest, Monroe is also entitled to a graduate fellowship at that institution, although he does not plan to take it within the next two years.

Last year Elizabeth Kiss became Davidson’s first female Rhodes Scholar. She is currently studying at Balliol College, Oxford.

The Rhodes Scholarship
The Rhodes Scholarship was begun by British financier Cecil Rhodes, who delineated in his will the type of scholar he wanted to receive these awards. Rhodes earned his fortune by mining gold and diamonds in South Africa. Rhodes' criteria for selection include: “literary and scholastic achievements, truthfulness, courage, devotion to duty, sympathy for and protection of the weak, kindliness, unselfishness and fellowship, exhibition of moral force of character and of instincts to lead and to take an interest in one’s contemporaries, physical vigor as shown by fondness for and success in sports.” The selection process begins after the aspirants fill out an application. Students may apply in their home state or the state of their college or university.

Inside This Week
‘Pipes Burst: Professor Cynthia Lewis’s house flooded over Christmas break. Page 3
‘Workshops: Sloan Foundation-funded workshops allow faculty to study mathematical models. Page 3
‘Top Ten: The year’s best films featured in this week’s film review. Page 7
‘Hernandez Quits: Sophomore basketball player tosses in his towel. Page 8
‘Kernels Popped: Two students respond to reason. Page 11
‘Woodpeckers Swarm: Absolutely true predictions for 1984. Back pageApplicants are invited to state interviews and two are chosen as state finalists. Finally, a committee composed of past Rhodes scholars chooses the 32 recipients, four from each of eight districts.

On Syrian Peace Delegation

Peggy Pierotti

Bio Prof Grant Dies

By ALLISON WILLS

Associate professor of Biology Cynthia Thomas Grant died early last Thursday morning of undetermined causes. Grant, 46, joined the faculty in 1972 and earned tenure in 1980. She taught immunology, introductory biology, and biochemistry.

“I always felt Cindy was very concerned about the kind of place Davidson was,” Dean of Students Will Terry said. “She really wanted to see its best traditions upheld, and she was a very supportive member of the college community in upholding those traditions.”

A native of Burlington, Vt., Grant received her bachelor’s degree from Wellesley College and completed a year of graduate study at Boston University. She received her PhD from Yale University in 1965. She was awarded a post-doctorate fellowship at Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Massachusetts for 1964-65 and was employed as a research assistant there before coming to Davidson.

Physics professor Robert Manning, long-time friend and colleague, described Grant as having a “good analytical mind.” “Cindy was a good researcher. One thing she enjoyed most was being in the lab,” he said.

(Continued on page 4)

Cynthia Grant

Trustee Adair Accompanies Jackson

By DAVID McGEE

For Davidson Trustee Thelma Adair, the past holiday season was not a vacation, although she did take a trip. She went to Syria as a member of presidential candidate Jesse Jackson’s delegation, which obtained the release of Navy pilot Lt. Robert O. Goodman on Jan. 3. Goodman was taken prisoner when Syrian forces downed his plane over Lebanon Dec. 4.

The only woman of the delegation’s seven primary members, Adair was asked to go because of her past experience with peace efforts in the Middle East. She said in a telephone interview with The Davidsonian that her trip to Syria served as a mission of mercy to seek new options for peace there.

“Before we left we discussed the fact that our mission — because it was one of peace and mercy — has its limitations,” she said. She said the members of the delegation were “more than delighted” with the results of their trip and are thankful for how well the Syrian government treated them.

Though she declined to comment on the Reagan Administration’s current Middle East policies, Adair feels additional initiatives like Jackson's delegation are necessary for a solution to the problems in the Middle East.

In response to criticism that Jackson’s trip was politically motivated, she said, “I can’t see how it could not affect his candidacy. Jesse himself has said that all political actions have moral implications and all moral actions have political implications.

“But many people don’t know that he [Jackson] at first did not plan to go. Our group was made up of persons, both black and white and from different denominations, who are interested in pursuing peace throughout the world. As men and women of faith, we have a responsibility to seek peace throughout the world we live in.”

Adair is currently a Professor of Education at Queens College of the University of the City of New York. She attended Barber-Scotia and Bennett Colleges in North Carolina. She has served as Moderator of the United Presbyterian Church, the second woman to hold that office in the church’s history. Adair is also president of Church Women United, an ecumenical movement of Christian women, and serves on the Student, Religious, and Campus Life committees of the Davidson Board of Trustees.