Friday, May 11, 1984 / The Davidsonian

Political Science Class Conducts Drug Survey
By DAVID McGEE

Students in Political Science Professor Thomas Kazee’s Public Opinion class have completed a survey of drug use at Davidson and are now analyzing the results. The class decided on the poll when Dean of Students Will Terry suggested to Kazee that his class conduct a poll on drug use. Terry had considered hiring an outside polling agency but decided against it because of the expense and the negative reaction he anticipated from students.

Kazee emphasized that the survey reveals mostly student attitudes and behaviors toward drug use and does not point to any policy recommendations specifically. Terry said he would be interested in the poll mainly for its informative value and doubted that the results would lead to any policy changes or direct action by the college.

The survey asked for demographic information, student opinion, and the extent of the respondent’s use of alcohol and illegal drugs. A total of 424 students were surveyed: 268 male, 153 female. The students selected for the poll were chosen randomly from the student body population. The survey’s standard error is positive or negative 5 percent. The survey's level of confidence is 95 percent. These two statistics mean that 95 out of 100 of the sample surveys would reflect the true value of the population if the entire student body were surveyed. The percentages below could vary by positive or negative 5 percent from their stated values.

For the purposes of the survey, the term “drugs” referred to a number of controlled substances but did not include alcohol, caffeine, aspirin, or similar “over the counter” medications. The following statements are taken from the survey. Respondents were asked if they strongly agreed, agreed, did not know, disagreed, or strongly disagreed with the given statement.

Drug use is a serious problem at Davidson College.
3.3 Strongly agree
28.3 Agree
27.1 Don’t know
36.6 Disagree
4.7 Strongly disagree

The College administration should work harder to enforce regulations against the use of drugs by Davidson College students.
9.4 Strongly agree
39.2 Agree
15.8 Don’t know
28.8 Disagree
6.8 Strongly disagree

It is difficult to obtain drugs on the Davidson College campus.
0.5 Strongly agree
3.5 Agree
46.7 Don’t know
28.3 Disagree
21.0 Strongly disagree

I see nothing wrong with the occasional use of Marijuana.
16.1 Strongly agree
33.4 Agree
9.2 Don’t know
26.3 Disagree
14.9 Strongly Disagree

In your estimation, has drug use on campus increased since you have been at Davidson?
33.5 Yes
17.2 No
49.3 Don't know

Which of the following sentences best describes your experience with drugs at Davidson?
58.1 — I have not used drugs at Davidson.
15.2 — I have experimented with, but do not “use” drugs.
12.1 — I have used drugs rarely (several times per year).
8.1 — I have used drugs occasionally (several times per month).
3.1 — I have used drugs frequently (1-3 times per week).
3.6 — I have used drugs regularly (4 or more times per week).

The following questions applied to the respondents who have used drugs. Using the list below, indicate which drugs you have used since you have been at Davidson College.
1.3 Amphetamines
3.9 Cocaine
0.6 Heroin
0.6 LSD
92.3 Marijuana
1.3 Other

When did you first experiment with drugs?
1.7 Grade school
21.0 Junior High School
55.7 High School
21.6 College

Which of the following statements describe the situations in which you use drugs at Davidson?
1.4 — I use drugs when I am alone.
83.1 — I use drugs with a few friends.
2.1 — I use drugs with a large group of friends.
3.5 — I use drugs at parties.
9.9 — I no longer use drugs.

350 Of 609 To Attend Davidson As Class Of 1988
By RAND HARTSELL

The Class of 1988 will be filled by next Monday, according to Dean of Admissions John Griffith. Of the 609 accepted applicants, 172 men and 132 women have confirmed that they will attend Davidson next year. Griffith expects next year’s freshman class will have about 350 members. These figures are lower than the target sizes for men and women, Griffith said. He explained that it will be necessary to...“Go to the waiting list in order to bring the number up to our intended sizes of 210 men and 140 women.” While these numbers are comparable to last year’s figures on applicants, acceptances, and enrollments, Griffith pointed out that there is a nationwide decline in the number of college applicants. “By the end of this decade,” he said, “there will be 25 percent fewer graduating high school 17 and 18-year-olds than in 1979.” Griffith also said in the Northeast there will be 40 percent fewer graduating high school 17 and 18-year-olds. Recently, Liberal Arts colleges have been unable to attract as many students as, for example, engineering and computer science-oriented schools, Griffith said. Because of the higher male versus female attraction toward engineering and computer science programs, the female section of next year’s freshman class has been easier to fill than the male section.

Griffith added that the Admissions Office has observed a gradual change towards “overlapping” with other schools. Ten years ago, the average Davidson applicant applied to other schools such as UNC-Chapel Hill, Duke, Wake Forest, Washington and Lee, Vanderbilt, and the University of the South. Now the change has been to overlap with UNC, Wake, and Duke still; but schools such as Dartmouth and Williams have replaced the more southeast regional schools. Griffith said this shift reflects Davidson’s change in perception and association with the traditionally prominent schools. It also reflects a recruitment of southern students by northern institutions, Griffith said. Applicants from areas outside the south have enjoyed an increased acceptance rate, Griffith said, pointing to an increased level of the quality of those applicants. Statistics on the total number of minorities and other breakdowns including SAT scores and geography are not compiled yet, but Griffith sees very little change in these respects compared to last year’s class. “I do have an impression of a more diverse class with regards to non-black minorities with an increased number of Hispanics and Orientals. But I don't have that information available yet,” he said. “We are very excited about this year’s class. There are some marvelous kids in it,” he said. Griffith pointed out two future students, one who manages his own business, which makes enough to support his family. Another is a dancer who has performed with a leading U.S. ballet company. “This class also shows an extensive amount of international travel,” Griffith said, “[which is] indicative of an appreciation for international interdependence.”

Latin American Policy Group Organized
By ALLISON WILLS

A new organization, Latin American Policy Alternatives (LAPA), is studying issues related to Central America and proposing alternatives to the Reagan Administration’s Central American policies. Students became interested when Economics professor Jason Thompson spoke on U.S. aid to Central America in late April. “They wanted to start a group to express our views and to see what we could do at Davidson,” Thompson said. He believes that Central American issues are the most important issues related to the U.S. anywhere and, he said, “the likelihood of war there is very great.” “Reagan’s notion is that this area represents a conflict between the U.S. and the Communist world, but the position of LAPA is that the problem is not East/West but a problem of inequality,” Thompson said. “People are starving and we should have the first priority of feeding them before we supply arms. I think one of our positions will be to stop arms to Central America.”

“We don’t want to just be negative; that’s why we want to offer something constructive and formulate alternatives to the Reagan Administration’s policies,” Thompson said. This group is a branch of the Central American Awareness Committee. The CAAC serves solely as an educational forum with no political bias, but Thompson's group separated for the purpose of making a “progressive statement.” Twenty-five students and professors signed up for the group, which has held three meetings so far. The group met Tuesday to discuss the elections in El Salvador. “Our number one priority is food, shelter, and clothing for the people of Latin America,” Thompson said. “Other concerns are access to political justice and economic opportunity.”