4 Wednesday, December 12, 1984/The Davidsonian

Student Claims Elections Lacked
(continued from page 1)

On Tuesday of winter term and that the election is the following Tuesday. Vaughn, explaining his position, said, “I've been interested in the Union Board office for a number of weeks now. Last Tuesday night, Lucinda Kellam asked me why I hadn’t signed up.” Vaughn said he knew approximately when the sign-ups were but “put it in the back of my mind [thinking] as soon as I see the publicity, I’ll sign up.” He said he explained his situation to Laughlin Tuesday, a week ago, which was the deadline. “He was sympathetic,” Vaughn said, but thought the by-laws would deem him ineligible to sign up late.

The Elections Council met last Thursday morning to “try to make a fair decision,” said council Chairperson Jennifer Gotto. She said, “we used two campus media, the SGA minutes and fliers in the dorms” for publicity. The Davidsonian, because it published the following day, did not announce the deadline. She said, “Rob came across as knowing about the election sign-ups and knew when they were. We got the feeling he wanted his case to be treated as an isolated [one].” The Council decided not to allow Vaughn to run.

Gotto added, “Now that Rob is contesting publicity,” the Council feels his complaint is justified. “It opens up a different question,” she said, “it moves from Rob’s isolated case to all the offices.” Gotto, who put up a total of 30 fliers on the main doors of all dorms, said, “I assumed it would be enough; obviously I assumed wrong.”

Vaughn argued, “adequate [publicity] means I should have known when the deadline was. I, as an interested student, should have been affected by adequate publicity.” He presented petitions signed by 357 students who claimed publicity to be deficient.

Laughlin opened the floor for comments. One student said, “three flyers per dorm isn’t enough,” considering many are torn off during parties. Senior John Peeples asked, “What is usual publicity?” The council responded, “for winter elections there are no big posters.” Another student added, “last winter there were fliers in every bathroom.” Junior Sayres Rudy said, “I went in search of publicity; I actually looked and there was nothing.” SGA off-campus senator Ann Miano said, “I’m disturbed because students need a choice. I feel I haven’t given the student body an opportunity to have a choice.”

Again, Peeples raised the question of whether a precedent has been set for the 12 faculty committees including the steering committee. The faculty committees include Computer and Instructional Support, Undergraduate Program, Special Activities, Faculty, Library, Student Development Services, Athletics, History and Purpose, Institutional Planning, Organization and Administration, Financial Resources, Physical Resources, and Institutional Advancement.

Each of these 6-to-14-member committees will construct its own report “with a host of recommendations,” according to Kelton. Each committee will use information from the SGA report, as soon as it is completed, as well as a 33-page faculty questionnaire. Instead of each committee distributing its own survey, Kelton said, they submitted questions to be included in one comprehensive questionnaire, distributed to all Davidson faculty members, which has a Dec. 17 deadline for completion.

In addition, each academic department is responsible for completing its own self-study report which is due Dec. 15. As things now stand, according to religion Professor Sam Maloney, chairman of the faculty committee, “A lot of things are...on hold until all the data is in.” The faculty self-study committees will produce a preliminary draft by March 15, and a final draft by May 1. According to Kelton, the primary focus of the self-study report “is not so much a historical chronicle as much as creating a set of goals for the future.” The self-study is required by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools for a renewal of Davidson’s accreditation. Kelton said the individual faculty reports will be consolidated, with some editing and modification, by the Steering Committee into a final self-study report over the summer. The final result, Kelton said, “will be available for inspection by the community in early fall.”

SPERM DONORS NEEDED
$25.00 Per Acceptable Donation
Call: Fertility Laboratory
Charlotte Memorial Hospital and Medical Center
(704) 331-3227

EXPRESS THE WONDERFUL FEELINGS OF CHRISTMAS
— with Gifts - Our Specialty!
For everyone on your list — Wrapped Free, of course!
— with invitations, napkins, & candles — to make your parties more festive!
— with cards to share special greetings!
— with ornaments and decorations to give — or to give your room a holiday air!

Sophomore Mickey McDonald, a member of the Elections Council, said “every year, fall and spring there is more publicity because freshmen are involved. A lot of people say winter term elections aren’t publicized enough. Maybe the Senate should work on it.” He added, “it was publicized the same last year as this year.”

Sophomore Lucinda Kellam, who was running unopposed for Union Vice-President, said “publicity was poor, but it concerns me that now people will run just so the elections won't have candidates running unopposed,” and just to have an office. Junior Nick Lowther added, “I’m a hall counselor and didn’t know about the freshman advisor’s elections.” The Senate voted to suspend the bylaws and reschedule the sign-ups and elections. Laughlin said he did not have an immediate reaction to the decision: “We'll just have to wait to see if it was a good or bad one.”

Self-Study Issues Surveys To Students
Maloney said the committee on faculty was divided into eight parts to facilitate study. Teaching load and other duties, statistical analysis, and working conditions are three of the areas which he said have been divided among committee members for investigation. He said his committee will rely largely on faculty and student surveys and departmental reports for its investigation, as well as information gathered by Assistant to the President Rick Love and self-study committee member Elizabeth Covington. Covington and Love, Maloney said, provide information “not readily available” in the Dean's Office or historical records.

BUFFET — ALL YOU CAN EAT —
Mooresville’s First And Finest Italian Restaurant
KING Of PIZZA
Sunday 12 Noon til 9:00 P.M.
Tues., Wed. & Thurs. 5 P.M. til 9 P.M.

SPAGHETTI
100% Durham Wheat
OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE
FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD
PARMESAN—ROMANO CHEESE

SALAD BAR
45 Items
FRESH GREEN VEGETABLES
DELICIOUS FRUITS
FLAVORFUL MEATS
RICH DRESSINGS
TASTY CHEESES
WINE CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE

ALL FOR $3.89
Meal Includes: DESSERT-TEMPTING HAWAIIAN SALAD
SPECIAL RATES FOR CHILDREN UNDER 12—25¢ PER YEAR

Lunch Buffet—Mon.-Sat., 11 AM-2:30 PM $2.99

PIZZA
Still Mooresville’s Finest
SPICY PEPPERONI
CANADIAN BACON
ITALIAN SAUSAGE
CHOICE BEEF
FRESHLY DICED GREEN PEPPERS
SWEET ONIONS

SOUP OF THE DAY
CREAM OF POTATO
VEGETABLE BEEF STOCK
CHICKEN NOODLE
CHILI CON CARNE

PER PERSON