4 Friday, March 22, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Four Compete For Student Government Presidency

Jay Gaither

My experience in local, regional, and state student government prior to Davidson encouraged interest in the SGA. In terms of specific experience here, I have served as dorm senator, which has given me the opportunity to judge the SGA from the inside. This experience has heightened my conviction that the SGA is oftentimes little more than an organization that exists for the sole purpose of self-perpetuation. To support such a bold statement, consider the following: my opponents can rattle off a string of involvement and “service” that may sound impressive to the casual listener. They assume that Davidson students would then conclude that they have been helped, or served, by these people and the professed accomplishments. But I and others say that the SGA has done little to represent and enact the views of students. In short, though my opponents have sat on many committees, established nice records for elections such as this, and have functioned as effective bureaucrats, they have failed to serve as an adequate vehicle in voicing student concerns. In this sense, the SGA and many of its members have merely perpetuated their own interests without addressing student needs. This is certainly not the fault of individuals, but the fault of an inadequate structure of student government.

Last year I ran for vice president on the platform of broadening the base of student representation. I was supported on this issue by many students, yet nothing was done by those elected. This issue touched every other issue at Davidson. Now, particular concerns are addressed by dipping into the convenient pool of senators and forming committees which ostensibly seek to determine student opinion. But this procedure has often excluded the involvement of freshmen, minorities, and athletes, to name a few. These and other interest groups are shut out not because they are apathetic; rather, the inherent structure of the SGA prevents their participation. My experience is the realization that the SGA has not fulfilled its purpose; my opponents’ experience has settled the SGA into this dangerous rut.

As stated earlier, my primary goal as president is to broaden the base of representation. In order to provide Davidson with a student forum large enough to possess a true voice, I propose a “new and improved” senate based on the ideals of democratic government. The present system is inefficient in that a very small number of senators are given the impossible task of interpreting and expressing the ideas of a huge constituency. To wit: how many of you actually know how you can make specific opinions heard? Our present system provides few representatives with little differentiation between them. The system I propose seeks to establish a smaller student-to-senator ratio necessary for effective representation and student involvement. Issues such as race relations, athletics, Patterson Court, trustee contact, and SGA procedure will be better addressed with a more representative student government.

The reason I see increased student representation as my primary goal is that I place more importance on student ideas than my own personal interests. The duty of the president and executive council is not to establish policy but to react to and execute the ideas of a more democratic senate. My opponents intend to continue to pursue their own personal goals within the present framework. I intend to elevate the feelings of students to the point where the voice of the student government is the voice of the student body. I urge each student to examine his or her needs and decide if the present system really personifies student needs. If you would like a greater voice in the SGA, vote Jay Gaither for president.

Edward Hay

During the past three years at Davidson, I have had the opportunity to serve on the SGA Senate as Freshman Class Senator, Sophomore Class President, and Junior Class President. This experience has allowed me to become extremely familiar with the procedures, operations, and by-laws of the SGA. I have served on SGA committees offering services to the campus as well as those dealing with more immediate student issues. Through my committed attendance at the weekly Senate Executive Committee meetings as well as the weekly Senate meetings, themselves, I have developed an excellent understanding of the purpose and responsibilities of the SGA. My committee activities include Rides Board Chairman (82-83, 83-84), Faculty Evaluation Committee (82-83), Elections Council Chairman (83-84), Leadership Training Committee (83-84, 84-85), SGA Weekend Committee (83-84), Career Symposium Chairman (83-84, 84-85), Trustee Contact Committee (84-85), Self-Study Committee (84-85), and Student Conduct Council (83-84, 84-85). On committees, I have served as chairman or as an active member in all cases.

In addition to practical SGA experience, I have participated in many leadership seminars and workshops through the North Carolina Fellows Program, both at Davidson and at the Center for Creative Leadership in Greensboro, NC, and through the SGA Leadership Training Committee. These have given me an awareness of the leadership and management skills necessary to most effectively run an organization. Finally, my participation in a wide variety of campus activities and organizations over my three years has given the necessary contact with the campus as a whole. I feel confident that I have the leadership skills and experience needed to do an excellent job.

I hope that the SGA’s role as an effective receiver and communicator of student opinion and service-provider will be improved upon and expanded. The framework for receiving and communicating student opinion is already set up, for the most part, in the form of faculty committee and advisory board appointments, the SGA Senate, and its committees. With good leadership, hard work, and commitment this framework can be revived and publicized so that students and faculty, administration, and trustees will know that it exists and will use it as it is intended to be used. Service functions provided by the SGA to the campus can also be improved upon and enhanced through strong leadership. I feel strongly that the SGA can play a more significant and effective role in the life of Davidson College if it simply takes the time and effort needed to fulfill its responsibilities as stated in the SGA By-laws and in the Davidson College Constitution. I am committed tomaking the SGA live up to its purpose. The role of the office of SGA President is one of listener, communicator, and facilitator. The SGA President represents the opinions, attitudes, and feelings of the student body to the faculty, administration, and trustees. Thus, he must have an effective method of getting student opinion and be able to communicate it accurately. He has the responsibility of attending all faculty and board of trustee meetings. The SGA President oversees the running of all SGA functions, committees, and appointments. He presides over the weekly meetings of the Senate Executive Committee and the Senate. The SGA President also serves as a member of the Student Conduct Council, the Advisory Council on Fiscal, Personnel, and Development, and the Advisory Council on Campus Life (CCRL). I have the qualifications needed to do an excellent job and I would be honored to be able to serve as your next SGA President.

Beadsie

What if we abolish student government? It is often regarded as a puppet of the administration, as an organization bogged down with committees and bylaws, as a group of senators who make hollow promises. So, why not just get rid of it? I believe SGA has a meaningful purpose: to present student opinions, attitudes, problems, and suggestions to the administrative policymakers via the SGA president and to follow up that presentation with constructive solutions and persistence until action is taken. The SGA president, in addition to acting as student liaison to the administration, trustees, and faculty, should promote unity and provide direction for the senate, and ensure that the senators conscientiously fulfill their duties as student representatives.

In my three years in student government, two as class senator and one as SGA vice-president, I have learned the importance of committees and under what conditions they work most effectively. I also see the necessity of raising student awareness and concern without which any SGA action is weak and empty, and gladly accept the duties, responsibilities, and time commitment of the SGA president. From this position and with my knowledge of student government, I can move forward to improve the SGA in those areas which are deficient in meeting student needs.

An effective and innovative SGA president must have the perception to gauge student opinions and attitudes, the clarity of purpose and determination to act on those opinions for the betterment of the college community, and the energy and enthusiasm to perpetuate the support and activity of the Senate. As SGA president, I would work hard to represent student opinion fairly and to respond quickly and with conviction on issues of concern. I would focus on the internal structure of the Senate, effecting change from within. I propose that, as an extension of and supplement to the upcoming bylaws revisions, the SGA undergo a self-study to estimate strengths and weaknesses and to target problem areas. If the SGA has an image problem, then something must be wrong. I want to know what it is, and I want to make it right.

I believe that the duties of SGA senators do not end with weekly attendance at meetings; rather those duties should extend to the concerns of the senators’ constituents and to the issues which face the College. There must be motivation and sincerity within the senate: motivation to work and sincerity in the belief that perseverance and hard work will accomplish goals. Student government is limited in its ability to be the panacea for student problems only insofar as its leadership’s vision and energy are limited. The SGA president acts as a student leader, a liaison to administrators and faculty members, a diplomat, a representative of the students and the College, and an insightful, informed, and creative policymaker. It is a challenging job, I can do it.

Mickey McDonald

I have been involved in many varying activities on campus for the past year and a half and currently hold leadership positions in most of these activities. Through this wide participation, I have been exposed to a broad base of students and student opinions. Now, I would like to bring these various concerns to and represent the whole campus in the position of Student Government President.

In the past year, I have been excited to see President Kuykendall be more open to more and stronger student involvement. Also, as a Self-Study subcommittee chairman, I have seen the necessity of increased awareness of SGA activities on campus and a need for stronger and more activities in which the SGA takes part in—this is the student opinion from many of those who completed the survey. Two programs that have been quite successful in the past and should be continued in much the same fashion are SGA Weekend and the SGA Phonathon. I believe the current BSC weekend is an integral part in encouraging minority students to attend Davidson. However, I would like to see and help combine BSC and SGA weekends.

The committee and advisory board system is an integral part of the SGA. However, I would like to see a greater awareness of the advisory boards—signups to be on the boards and the activities the boards participate in and try to implement. Also, it is important that the committees follow through on their programs and actually work through the completion of some of their ideas and implemented programs.

Important issues that must receive continued attention are the parking (or lack thereof!), security and the best way to handle the security problems—especially during the weekends, the lack of computer availability, and minority as well as women’s issues. Two issues that are going to increase in importance next year focus on intercollegiate sports and Patterson Court. I am concerned for the continuation of an active sports program. I am also concerned about the continuation of strong fraternities, women’s eating houses, coed eating houses, and the BSC.

I am excited about representing the entire campus next year as SGA president and hope I can get a chance to bring forth all the concerns I have seen this year, through this position. I ask for your support on March 26, but more importantly, I hope each of you express your concern for next year and the direction the SGA can take by voting for both SGA offices in next Tuesday's elections.