10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor
Kevin Horan, Executive Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Brooke Knight, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor
Stephen Mank, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager
Amy Harrell, Circulation Manager

The ‘Real World’

The end of another academic year is approaching and with it comes the usual frenzy of papers. This means packed computer terminal areas all day and night, desperately-needed reserve readings that are a week overdue, and days that stretch from 7 a.m. to 3 a.m. For the graduating seniors, this is the last time this ritual will be enacted at Davidson. Graduation releases them from the problems in the secure environment of Davidson and turns them loose on the ‘real world.’

With the “real world” so close on the heels of the seniors, it is an appropriate time to recognize the “real world” across the street from us. This past February the town of Davidson made an official statement calling for the elimination “of all federal subsidies of every kind and nature from the federal budget.” If the Reagan administration does cut out these funds, the Davidson Community Center will be forced to request $33,850 from local funds in order to operate at the capacity at which it has previously. The statement is not a rejection of available federal funds. It is simply a statement of support for the President’s efforts to cut the federal budget deficit. Nevertheless, the town’s statement localizes the ramifications of the possible cut and should spark active response from the campus community.

Mayor Russell Knox appointed members to the Davidson Community Facilities Committee to make recommendations to the town concerning the community center. In addition to various town representatives, the College is also represented on this committee. It is important for student opinion to be a part of this representation of the College. Unless students become concerned about the situation and get involved, their valuable opinions will be absent from the decision-making process. Involvement in the representative body, as well as involvement in the community center’s programs, is a worthwhile experience. By working with members of the town, students have the opportunity to effect change with “real” results. The community center provides hot meals for senior citizens, cultural opportunities for young people, and a meeting place for everyone. If Federal Revenue Sharing Funds are lost, these programs are potentially endangered. Consequently, a lot of people will be affected. Student input could make a difference while there is still time to save the programs and the aims of the community center from the threat of a loss of funds. The first step would be to schedule a piece of time out of that hectic work schedule to attend the town council meeting on Tuesday.

Friday, May 10, 1985

THE DAVIDSONIAN

How ‘Bout Catching THE ZIPPER FOR A

To the Editors:

Especially against that vast military machine in Costa Rica, whose militia and police together total about 3000 men. And imagine those silly “contras” being indignant over the Sandinistas’ forming the infamous “block committees,” and banning

I, too, believe there is a lack of understanding in the world. For example, Nicaraguan amphibious forays onto Costa Rican beaches and the assassination of an opposition leader on Costa Rican embassy premises in Managua is all right.I mean, really, the Americans are going to invade any day, right? Those poor free trade unions—as well as tightly controlling the food supply. Why, they don’t have a leg to stand on! I think I am beginning to understand a little better now. Thanks, Davidson, you've taught me a lot about “open-mindedness” this year. Sandinistas have to keep their guard up. Thank you for your time.

Russell Booker

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere to these four guidelines:
1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2) We require that letters be neatly typed.
3) We require that letters be signed and include the author’s name. If you have a compelling reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.
4) We reserve the right not to print letters that:
   a) function as advertisements;
   b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes;
   c) represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed on the same topic.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Ted Wilson, Assistant News Editor; Richard Cloudt, Andrea Diedrich, Roxanna Guilford, Nelle McCorkle, Stephen Mank, Tom Schilling, Lee White, Allison Wills
Arts and Entertainment Staff: Bill Bugg, Craig Detweiler, Thurston Hatcher, Matt Morris, Samuel Scott, Treeby Williams, Allison Wills
Sports Staff: Patricia Hahn, Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley, Perry Mathewes, Edwin Page
Photography Staff: Christian Harberts, Assistant Photography Editor; Brad Brechtelsbauer, Jill Boyette, Phillip Dennis, Warriner Inge, Rocky Kmiecik, Bruce von Stein
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey
Advertising Staff: Joanneke Brentjens, David Van Pelt
Production Staff: Pauline Rhodes, David Soud
Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Anne Lambert, Lisa Lano, Martha Yeide, Frank Roberts

The Davidsonian’s “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions articles on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community. We adhere to these guidelines:
1) We require that all articles be in our hands at 7 p.m. Monday.
2) We accept typed articles and those written legibly, double-spaced.
3) We require that opinions be signed. We will print unsigned articles only if a compelling reason exists for withholding the author’s name, and the author is known to either the editor or executive editor.
4) We will not edit opinions for style or content but we reserve the right to edit for rules of common English. We will inform the author of substantial changes.
5) Since space for Opinions articles is limited, we reserve the right to select articles from those we receive for publication. We will attempt to print any article we withhold from publication the next week.

With this issue, The Davidsonian ceases publication for the 1984-85 school year. The paper will resume publication in September.