THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor
Kevin Horan, Executive Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Brooke Knight, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager
Amy Harrell, Circulation Manager

Decision Commended

On Tuesday, February 26, President Kuykendall sent a letter to Sigma Phi Epsilon President Scott Purdy, welcoming SPE to Patterson Court. His decision, which requires SPE to provide food services but leaves open the option of up to a two-year delay, draws to a close a sensitive subject for both the members of Patterson Court and of SPE.

With this decision, Kuykendall straddled both sides of a delicate issue and came up with a solution worth commending. If the second variance is granted, those who joined SPE as a social fraternity will graduate before the requirement takes effect. He made the decision in time to notify future pledges of the fraternity’s changing status. The variances provide a transition period for the fraternity and allow time for members to rework house policies to accommodate the new requirements.

The President’s solution also preserves the interests of Patterson Court. The fear of many Court members, that a new social house allowing dining in the Commons would threaten small-group dining, has been recognized. SPE has been slated to become a “full participant” in the traditions of the Court, subject to the same requirements as all other fraternities and eating houses. His decision was, in our opinion, the fairest for all concerned. But his decision is laudable for its accomplishments in the present as well as its implications for the future. Kuykendall has set a precedent which ensures the future of Patterson Court dining. The addition of another house has the potential to strengthen an ailing Patterson Court.

Welcome Aboard

We feel it necessary to take this time to make a few welcomes and introduce ourselves to a few people. To the prospective Davidson students who are visiting us for the annual SGA Weekend, we welcome and congratulate you on your accomplishments. You were invited to campus because of your competitiveness and obvious desire to succeed, and we all admire those traits.

To the many transfer students who have joined us for the first time this spring, we welcome you and invite your contributions to our publication. Staffed and managed by students, we publish weekly to the entire campus as well as our subscribing readers. We are constantly in need of writers, photographers, artists, and anyone else who is interested in journalism. Our offices are on the top floor of the Union and are always open, so feel free to stop by and talk.

And finally, to our new staff, we welcome and thank you for your efforts and help in publishing this and subsequent editions. You are The Davidsonian, without which our publication would cease to exist.

And So Times Pass

And so the curtain rises only to find that another year has passed and it is once again time for The Davidsonian to change its leadership. We commend Ross Holt and David McGee for their time and talents which they contributed to the publication. Their efforts strengthened the voice and foundation of our campus news medium and made our job all the easier as we start our year.as editors. We hope you notice the many changes we have already made—the new masthead, the change of columns, and the basic change of design. More importantly, we hope you find these changes appealing without tarnishing the publication’s credibility. Our goal when we ran for this office was to make stylistic changes in the paper, without losing any of the voice, in the hopes of improving the publication’s popularity. With this issue comes the bulk of our stylistic changes, which we will continue to fine-tune as our year progresses. Ross and Dave, one down, 26 to go!

~N

Friday, March 22, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Clarification

To the Editors:

The article by Ross Holt on self-selection in the last issue of The Davidsonian (February 15) was on the whole a good article and generally accurate. There was, however, one thing that troubled members of the coed eating houses and therefore troubled me. Some in Emanon and Pax got the impression that my memo to Dr. Spencer reflected a bias against coed houses. (I did not give the memo to The Davidsonian to begin with.)

Let me be quite clear that I support coed eating houses strongly. They provide a very healthy alternative to single-sex houses. I wish that more Freshmen, men and women, saw them as the attractive social option that I see them as. My only serious concern with the increase of single-sex houses is their possible negative effect on coed houses. I would urge Freshmen who did not participate in self-selection, who are on a waiting list, or who did not get in the house of their choice to give serious thought to participating in Pax and Emanon. I hope very much that in the next year or two an enthusiastic group will consider forming a third coed house. I hope this corrects the erroneous impression left by last week’s article.

Will H. Terry

To the Editors,

We know that Spring Term brings lake trips, road trips, rays, raids, shorts, sports, and tennis courts. Also, a new Union Board. So just around the corner lie all kinds of great stuff—speakers, films, singers, parties, and programs. We’ve got the groundwork set; the committee chairs have been chosen—now we need the sum and substance . . . the committee members. Our committee sign-ups started Tuesday with a Coffee and Cokes in front of Chambers. They moved to Union Lobby and will wind up at today’s Friday Afternoon Club. Anyone may sign up, and everyone should. We’re definitely psyched.

Thank you,
Rob Vaughn
President
Union Board

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere to these four guidelines:
1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2) We require that letters be neatly typed.
3) We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.
4) We reserve the right not to print letters that:
a) function as advertisements;
b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes;
c) represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed on the same topic.