Friday, October 25, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tennis Center opened, plans revealed
By EDWIN PAGE

Last Saturday Davidson College took its first step toward constructing a complete sports complex with the dedication of the new
Louise and Carl Knobloch Tennis Center. The Knobloch Center contains four synthetic polymer surface courts which provide space for year-round
play. The glare-free indirect lighting coupled with advanced heating and air-conditioning makes the courts amenable to play at any time
— day or night, winter or summer. The facility also includes student locker areas and showers, an enclosed viewing area,
and office space for women’s tennis coach Caroline Brown.

The new tennis center was named in honor of Louise and Carl Knobloch, grandparents of Eleanor and Emmy Knobloch of
the classes of ’82 and '84, respectively, and parents of the principal donors, Mr. and Mrs. Carl Knobloch, Jr. of
Atlanta. Another major donor is the Stowe family of Belmont.

“The Knobloch Center is a tremendous addition to already outstanding Davidson tennis facilities,” men’s tennis coach Jeff Frank said. Brown
agrees, “From a recruiting standpoint I have already seen it as a positive influence on prospects. It’s one of the
best collegiate facilities anywhere.”

Just as exciting as the opening of the new Knobloch Center was the announcement of plans for a total sports
complex that will contain, in addition to the tennis center, a 6,000-seat arena for basketball, a natatorium with an Olympic-size
pool, a diving tank, and spectator seating area; a multipurpose floor area for everything from aerobics to weight training; and
administrative space for the coaching staff and other department personnel.

The seats of the arena will be retractable, providing much-needed space for intramural and recreational uses. The extra floor space
will also make it easier for Davidson to establish women’s volleyball, currently a very successful club sport, as a new
varsity sport.

Along with providing Davidson with a more attractive facility to aid basketball recruiting, the 6,000 seats in the arena (up
from 2,500 in Johnston gym) will help the college in many ways. The arena will allow the Cats to bring
attractive Division I opponents to campus, playing the big games at home and not in the relatively unfamiliar confines of
Charlotte. Also, the proposed arena would alleviate the question of the feasibility of Davidson using the new 20,000-seat coliseum in
Charlotte. Finally, it provides for the needs of the college for now and into the next century.

The natatorium will allow the college to reestablish swimming and diving teams that, despite their success, were discontinued because the
school lacked an adequate facility. Chairman of the Board of Trustees Ben Craig said that the Knobloch Center is evidence
of Davidson’s “commitment to men’s and women’s sports, to providing the finest facilities and to providing the opportunity to participate
in lifetime sports to all students.”

Davidson athletic director Kit Morris concurred. “Plans for construction of the new sports complex at Davidson are a continuation of
a predominant theme on campus — commitment to excellence. I think the Board feels a strong sense of timeliness and
a deep commitment to move forward.”

While delays in this type of project are certainly not unheard of (i.e., the new basketball arenas at both UNC
and Western Carolina), Morris expressed optimism that the project would be ready for use by the fall 1988 target date.
Although fundraising is still largely in the organizational stages, several major contributions have already been received. Along with those mentioned
above, The Belk Foundation of Charlotte, and Mr. and Mrs. John Baker of New York City have contributed significantly.

Who's On First?
The Condon, Leibrant conspiracy
By ANDY BARRON

There’s a conspiracy going on in baseball right here at peaceful Davidson College. A conspiracy the NCAA would love to
hear about and will after this reporter spills the beans.Junior pitcher Steve Condon has been pitching professionally for the past
several years under the assumed name of Charles Leibrant. Neither Condon (Leibrant) nor Davidson baseball coach George Greer could be
reached for comment. Though NCAA rules do not allow an athlete to participate in college and professional ranks simultaneously, the
athlete must be playing a different sport professionally than the one being played at the college level. This loophole might
be applied to Condon’s case since Condon throws right-handed for Davidson but left-handed as Charlie Leibrant for the Kansas City
Royals. The NCAA refused comment until their pending investigation has been completed. However, one long-time baseball observer said, “I don’t
see any problem with Condon’s situation since he approaches professional ball as a lefty and college as a righty. It
has to be okay that way. As long as he doesn’t want to hit like he did in the World
Series, I think he’ll continue to fit in at Davidson.” The left-right discrepancy between Condon and his alter ego also
explains why he hasn't been too tired to pitch at practice every day and in the World Series. Condon’s means
and schedule of travel between Davidson and the various locations at which the Royals play has yet to be explained.

The amazing aspect of this story has to be how Condon has been able to keep his secret for so
long. Fortunately for Condon, Davidson's low profile nationally and the Royals’ obscurity to people in North Carolina make for a
very small number of people that would see both Kansas City and Davidson in action. Unfortunately for Condon (or, should
we say, Leibrant), the Royals made both the play-offs and the World Series. In addition to extra schedule juggling, Condon/Leibrant
exposed himself as a Royal to local fans and it didn't take long for the bubble to burst. The consequences
of Condon’s actions could be far-reaching in their effect on Davidson baseball. Condon most likely will be ruled ineligible to
play baseball. In addition, Davidson's baseball program could be put on probation, a horrid prospect that would darken the previously
glorious outlook on the 1986 season. Such is the price of a scam as complicated and devious as Condon’s.

In fact, we'll even pay you more than $600 a month while you attend medical school. That’s in addition to
paying for your tuition, required books, and fees. It’s all part of the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. And
here’s how it works! If you’re selected for a Physicians Scholarship from the Army, Navy, or Air Force, you’re commissioned
as an officer in the Reserves. While you’re in school, you’ll serve 45 days a year on active duty gaining
valuable medical experience. After graduation, you will serve three or more years, the length depending on the requirements of the
Service selected and years of scholarship assistance received. As an Armed Forces physician, you’ll receive officers' pay and benefits and
enjoy the advantages of working regular hours. You’ll also see a diversity of patients and have opportunities to use sophisticated
medical technology. But most importantly, while you’re in medical school, we’ll help pay the bills. For more information, send in
this coupon. There’s no obligation.

YES! Tell me how the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program can help pay my medical school expenses. I understand
there is no obligation. Mail this coupon to Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box 2865, Huntington Station, NY 11746-2102. Check up
to three: ARMY, NAVY, AIR FORCE. College, Field of Study.
