Friday, January 18, 1985 / The Davidsonian

Students gather during a Sunday memorial service to honor Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

Sociology Dept. To Undergo Changes
By DAVID VAN PELT

The new chairman of the Sociology department will probably be named sometime next month, according to Vice-President of Academic Affairs
and Dean of Faculty T. C. Price Zimmerman. According to Zimmerman, the new chairman will determine curriculum changes in the
department based on the recent departure of Professor Peter Venturelli and the departure of visiting sociology and anthropology Professor James
Wooten at the end of this year.

Venturelli left for a new teaching post during Christmas break, Zimmerman said. Venturelli’s contract extended to the end of this
school year, Zimmerman said, but the administration agreed to his early departure. “We could have insisted that he fulfill the
contract and remain here through the spring, but we chose to assist him in accepting a new position,” he said.

Venturelli was teaching two courses this term, “Introductory Sociology” and “Society and the Individual.” Venturelli returns to campus weekly to
instruct students in the latter course, which involves primarily one long research paper, Zimmerman said. Patrick Conover, a Charlotte sociologist,
is now teaching the “Introductory Sociology” course, according to Zimmerman.

Wooten will finish a two-year visiting appointment at the end of the school year, according to Zimmerman. “A visiting appointment
is different from a regular appointment,” he said. A regular appointment, he said, includes an evaluation at the end of
the contract period to consider extending the appointment. A visiting appointment does not include this provision, he said.

Sakharov Speaks On U.S.S.R., Soviets, And Middle East
By TED WILSON

“They think every diplomat and journalist is a CIA agent and are paranoid about dealing with everyone in foreign countries,”
said former KGB and CIA agent Vladimir Sakharov of the Soviet Union. Sakharov, who is known for his keen insight
into Soviet long-term policy objectives, Soviet operations abroad, guerilla training procedures, and Soviet foreign economic, political and ideological planning, spoke
Monday night in a full Love Auditorium.

Speaking on “The Middle East Context of Soviet-American Relations,” Sakharov said we have forgotten that “the most important international issue
[and area] is the Middle East. There is a lack of interest in the Middle East in the academic and
political society.” He said American businesses show little interest in the area. Americans now represent 1 percent of the industry
done in that area, whereas 10 years ago, American business conducted 40 percent of the Middle East’s industry.

“It’s important for us to be present with political, business interests in the Middle East,” he said, suggesting the Middle
East will become the battleground between the Soviet Union and the United States. Sakharov said the Soviet Union, which has
a long tradition of “wheeling and dealing in the Middle East,” has other reasons for being there besides seeking oil.
He said the Soviet population is declining. While the birthrate is about one child per family, the average life expectancy,
now 62, is declining. (Sakharov said later heavy drinking and poor diet contribute to the decline.) However, he said, while
the Russian population is declining, “the Soviet Moslem population is increasing.” He questioned the degree of loyalty the Islamic armed
forces will have to the elitist Russian government. “The Russians are making sure there is little foreign presence in foreign
countries.”

He said the Russians are suspicious of Americans, and “they perceive that it is in America’s interest to get the
Soviet Union. “Americans have their misconceptions, also. It’s a misconception that [the USSR] only deals with terrorists. They are more
sophisticated than that. They prefer to deal with organizations that will provide a nucleus and who will deal with Soviet
interests.”

The new generation of Russians has been exposed to more western ways. Sakharov said, “the old generation touched and felt
... World War II. They feel they built the Soviet state and feel responsible for it and what goes on
in it.” The younger generation, he said, who enjoyed the Russian Renaissance from 1962-67 lived in “a revolutionary atmosphere.” They
drank at cafés, were more open to Western culture, and had different expectations from their predecessors.Wooten said his departure may
affect curriculum concerning race relations “in that no one currently on the staff teaches in that area.” Wooten is teaching
“Introductory Sociology” and “Race Relations” this term. According to Zimmermann, courses in race relations “are fundamental to the ongoing program
of the College and the department and will certainly be supplied. We have no intention to drop these subjects from
the curriculum.” He said courses such as “Race Relations” may not be offered for several terms, but “race relations is
too important to the whole community to let it be dropped.” Zimmermann said he is unsure whether all courses taught
by Venturelli will continue to be offered. The new chairman will consider such curriculum matters, he said.

Vladimir Sakharov entertained by Holiday on Ice and the Harlem Globetrotters, and listened to jazz, he said. “That phase stopped
in '67, but the new generation has something in the back of their heads and their perception of the United
States is different.” “The perceptions [we got] from movies and foreign influence from the Russian Renaissance” left them with “a
sense of helplessness after 1967. All the freedom was gone that we once had between '62 and '67.” Sakharov said
knowing Arabic languages is key for the foreigners who deal with the Middle East. He said the Soviets have very
rigorous Arabic language programs. Through speaking well, “You can win their confidence and [better deal] with the Arabians,” he said.
“We [Americans] assume that everyone in the world speaks English and if the Arabians don’t, that’s tough.” He said our
foreign affairs educational system has some flaws. “We teach our graduate students 1000 theories based on one professor's thoughts.” Then,
Sakharov said, there are agents who conduct “CIA clandestine operations who don't know much about [them].” He said, however, “American
students have a unique opportunity. We have a negative system of international studies but we have an excellent opportunity within
the system. It's up to the individual to develop his abilities [and] to find the right schools." He noted that
the lack of money in Middle East studies is a large problem. Sakharov said he sees no big breakthrough in
the developments of Soviet-American relations in nuclear arms. He says both sides realize the implications of a nuclear war and
the Soviets, too, want to “protect their family and property.” He said the Schultz-Gromyko talks were “rating boasting. Negotiations, if
they continue, will take maybe ten years. [I see] no immediate results. It is a positive and significant fact that
the two countries finally got together.”

Turnout For Election High
By LISA THOMAS

“The SGA is pleased with the number of people who voted,” SGA Chancellor and co-chairperson of the Elections Council Christie
Johnson said of Tuesday’s winter term elections. According to Johnson, the high turnout was “probably because of the publicity surrounding
the conflict with the by-law concerning publicizing the elections.” Fifty-three percent of the student body registered in Tuesday's vote which
was postponed from Dec. 11 by an SGA decision to suspend the by-laws and move the elections to Jan. 15.
The decision was in response to junior Rob Vaughn’s claim that the Elections Council had failed to provide sufficient publicity
for the election sign-ups. Vaughn won the race for Union President. Junior Dave Stout, who also announced his candidacy during
the sign-up extension, was elected Union Social Vice-President. Two offices, Union Vice-President and editor of The Davidsonian, remained uncontested after
the extension. According to co-chairperson of the elections council, junior Jennifer Gotto, “Winter term elections are like off-year national elections,
and don't usually have a large turnout. The turnout was probably the largest this school has seen in a long
time, and all of the races were good, close races,” she said. Election winners were: Rob Vaughn, Union President; Lucinda
Kellam, Union Vice-President; Dave Stout, Union Social Vice-President; John Gathings and Kevin Horan, editors of The Davidsonian; Sara Beasley and
Tommy Cardwell, freshman advisors; Dana Lemon and Pepper Bego, editors of The Wildcat Handbook; and Anne Lambert, President of the
Y-Student Service Corps.
