Friday, February 8, 1985 / The Davidsonian

Media Analyst Addresses Sexism In Advertising
By ROXANNA GUILFORD

This past week, Davidson's Women’s Concerns Committee (WCC) sponsored its third annual Women’s Week. Each day the WCC presented various
speakers, poetry readings, workshops, and performances. According to WCC President Elizabeth Laughlin, Women’s Week had been in the works since
last April. Since July, Laughlin has been making specific plans and contacting resources. Women’s Week was the culmination of nine
months' worth of work, she said.

“The Naked Truth”

The week began officially Tuesday evening with a presentation by Dr. Jean Kilbourne titled “The Naked Truth: Advertising’s Image of
Women.” In this slide and lecture program, Kilbourne, a nationally known media analyst, explored the subtle and not-so-subtle ways in
which advertising exploits women. She sought to make her audience “take advertisements seriously” and to become aware of the images
they present, she said. She noted the great influence of commercials in shaping attitudes, which, in turn, affect behavior. After
her introductory remarks, she narrated a slide show which presented evidence of her claims. Images of the “ideal” woman, with
faultless face and prepubescent bodies represented, she said, the impossible standards set for women. The face becomes a mask, and
the body a package, she said.

The flip side of this “ideal woman” mythology, however, is what distresses Kilbourne most. Since women can never reach the
ideal, the images create a loathing for “imperfect womanhood,” she said. The message, according to Kilbourne, is “you’re ugly, you’re
disgusting.” In addition, feminine hygiene ads announce that to be a woman is to smell bad. Nearly all ads, but
especially those for diet aids, she said, denounce the natural female form. According to these standards, Kilbourne added, Marilyn Monroe
would be considered obese. According to Kilbourne, what a woman is, she is taught to despise. She pointed out that
all advertisements play upon anxiety. For women, they create a self-loathing, then proceed to push products (often unnecessary and unhealthy)
to address this “problem,” she said.

Included in this female self-loathing is a fear of aging. The dignified man’s counterpart is a dowdy woman. She is
told to look young, or else lose her man. Other women, especially younger ones, are portrayed as competition, Kilbourne said.

Sex In Advertising

A small part of Kilbourne’s presentation concentrated upon subliminal sexual innuendo. Although she admitted that the use of subliminal advertising
cannot be proved, she showed slides of advertisements containing undeniable sexual content. In general, Kilbourne spoke against the image of
women as inferior and brainless objects. However, she said she reserves her greatest outrage for two particularly offensive advertising images:
children as sex objects and violence against women. Using little girls in sexual roles is a relatively new, but very
disturbing trend, Kilbourne said. This takes on frightening proportions, viewed in the context of a society where 25 percent of
its female children are sexually molested. While Kilbourne does not see any causality implied by this, she maintains that the
advertisements create an acceptable climate for such crimes. Fortunately, Kilbourne believes that this exploitation of children can still be curbed.
She urged those concerned to write the offending companies in care of the network or magazine and protest.

Violence against women, however, is far more entrenched in today’s society. The objectification of women lays the groundwork, she said.
If women are viewed as simply a collection of disparate body parts, Kilbourne said, and not as people, their abuse
becomes all the more thinkable. Many advertisements seem to follow this thinking, portraying women as victims of assault, rape, bondage,
sadism, and murder, she said. Men are told that “it is manly”To be brutal.” She views the increase in portrayals
of violence against women as possible backlash against the women’s movement. It is not a conscious conspiracy, however, she said.
Rather, Kilbourne maintains that it “is a function of the collective mindset. Violence is inevitable when you turn a woman
into a thing.”

Kilbourne was the first of a series of speakers and events this week. On Wednesday, Dr. Mary Lee Daugherty spoke
at the Open Luncheon on her experiences with the women of Appalachia. She is a consultant to the Council on
Religion in Appalachia and has produced numerous documentaries. That evening, local poets Rebecca Devet and Julie Suk gave an informal
reading of their works in the 900 Room. Missy Kuykendall led a seminar on “Risk Taking and Assertiveness” yesterday afternoon.
This workshop addressed the attitudes which keep women from asserting themselves. Last night, English Professor John Engell presented the Fine
Film Persona and provided some seeds for discussion after the movie.

This afternoon, Dr. Daugherty conducted a seminar and showed her videotape “A Comparison of Appalachian Women to Women in the
Third World.” The entertainment in the 900 Room also reflects the concerns of Women's Week. Tonight and tomorrow night, Barbara
Bailey Hutchinson will perform in the 900 Room. Using both original and well-known music, she performs on the piano and
guitar as well as sings.

WCC president Elizabeth Laughlin sees “a great deal of misunderstanding about women’s concerns at Davidson.” She was pleased, however, by
the turnout at the week's events. Laughlin will turn over her office to junior Melissa Jones at the end of
Winter term. Students interested in the WCC should contact Laughlin or Jones, or attend a meeting (alternate Mondays at 9:30
p.m. in the Union).

Diplomat Discusses Foreign Policy

Classes, luncheons, and discussions at the Center for Special Studies, and formal talks on specific topics in foreign policy. Jack
Perry, director of Davidson’s Dean Rusk Program for International Studies, joined Saunders Wednesday in attending a senior political science colloquium.
Yesterday, Perry, a former ambassador to Bulgaria, spoke on U.S.-Soviet relations at the Center for Special Studies.

Saunders gave his first presentation Monday afternoon in the Morrison room, where he analyzed the forces involved with the Palestinian
question in the Middle East. Israel, Jordan, Syria, and the Palestinians are the principal players, he said, adding, “In none
will you find a commitment to a peaceful settlement, in none a readiness to explore the possibilities for a peaceful
settlement.” The former diplomat described the current situation as one predating negotiations, requiring steps designed to create an environment where
negotiations can take place. The Sadat visit to Jerusalem in 1973 served such a purpose, he said.

Except for Syria, Saunders said, the forces involved face a highly destabilizing situation: “Israel is divided over a widely fractured
spectrum,” regarding the West Bank and Gaza Strip and the fate of the more than one million Palestinians living there.
This situation, he said, “is a prescription for political paralysis.” King Hussein of Jordan faces a threat to his rule
if Israel drives the Palestinians out of the occupied lands west of the Jordan river, Palestinians would swell to two-thirds
of Jordan's population. Meanwhile, the Palestinians are divided into the Syrian-backed “rejectionist” camp, which demands access to all of Palestine,
and the camp of Yassar Arafat, which argues that “a state in a part of Palestine is better than no
state.” Saunders described the Syrians as spoilers who “will undermine any settlement of which they are not a part.”

The Wilson Fellow asserted that concessions are needed on all sides if negotiations can succeed and suggested that Israel’s move
toward self-autonomy in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank would be a good start. Furthermore, he ruled out the
U.S. as a broker in the settlement, asserting that, “In my view [it would be] a bad idea.”

Monday evening in the 900 Room Saunders discussed foreign policy making in Washington, calling it “an intensely human process” which
“combines sets of goals with some notion of the political environment one is going to have to construct in order
to get there.” In a discussion of crisis management on Tuesday, the former diplomat contrasted the business-like attitude of Americans
in seeking a quick, final resolution with the reality of a situation requiring years, perhaps decades, to resolve.

Saunders will leave campus today; he departs Sunday to the Middle East, where he will spend three weeks researching articles
and books which he is writing. English Professor Frank Bliss, who served as coordinator for the Wilson Fellow, said “[each
year] people tend to say this is our most effective visitor to campus.”
