Steven White

It’s a big production, it’s a good show, he’s got a message. To some of us, the idea is offensive.
How badly do you want to pay five dollars to hear gospel rock? The Concert Committee is using student activity
funds to bring a very expensive Christian rocker to Love Auditorium at 8 p.m. February 22. The majority of the
funds used to schedule, pay for, and promote the Michael W. Smith Tour comes from a pool of money which
might otherwise be used to bring other types of bands later in the year (specifically, a first-rate, popular, non-religious, and
well-known group for Spring Frolics). In order that we, as students, might be blessed with this performance, the support of
many churches and youth groups in the Charlotte area has been solicited. The college may make some money on the
undertaking, but the initial fee for such a show could subtract a very significant amount of money from the concert
budget. Wagon-loads of high-school Christians will make it possible for the Concert Committee to get such a show off the
ground and into the heavens. What’s wrong with a Christian singing about forgiveness and love in a rock concert? Is
that what students want? The issue raises numerous questions. Is it indeed appropriate for the Union to undertake such a
mission? How might we otherwise spend money designated for concerts? Is it wrong for the College to cater to students
and area citizens who have special tastes and interests? Have the interests of a vague majority been too dominant in
previous scheduling? Could we benefit from several smaller, less expensive shows? Above all, are we simply getting this band because
of certain connections? Who is promoting this well-financed Christian business adventure? Should not the interests of a broad segment of
the student body be considered when such an expensive venture is undertaken? If many of us are indeed uninterested and
do not attend, costs may not be covered, the concert budget will suffer the damages, and the students will be
less likely to see a more appealing type of band. How many students will buy tickets? “Who is Michael W.
Smith?” you ask. “What does he play? Where does he come from?” “Oh,” I reply, “just check the tops of
the gospel rock charts (you know where to find one). You'll find that he may indeed be the latest thing
for many of us! Muffy’s little brother’s youth group told her about him!” Is Davidson doing a public service by
bringing this band to the area? Do we really want a Christian rock act? Though this may be seen locally
as a big-time event, it seems as though the Union concert people might have been more careful and considerate with
student money. Perhaps, on the other hand, I am wrong. Please pardon my ideological slant and consider these issues.

White is a senior from Greenville, N.C.

Another Kind Of Right To Life
Kathy Bray

Not the purse holding the coins of your descendants till you spend them in wars. Not a bank where your
genes gather interest and interesting mutations in the tainted rain, any more than you are. and wife are sticking pins
in the son they did not want. They will explain for hours how wicked he is, how he wants discipline.
We are all born of woman, in the rose

To the Opinions Editor:

I submit the following work by Marge Piercy in response to your intellectually corrupt and emotionally bankrupt article in which
you implied that moral decisions, which ultimately determine a woman’s life, are better made by frustrated people who resort to
violence than women themselves. Also, must I remind you that women’s lives, too, are “viable,” and that bombing abortion clinics
is a flagrant encroachment on women’s rights to “life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness?”

Right to Life

A woman is not a pear tree thrusting her fruit in mindless fecundity into the world. Even pear trees bear
heavily one year and rest and grow the next. An orchard gone wild drops few warm rotting fruit in the
grass but the trees stretch high and wiry gifting the birds forty feet up among inch-long thorns broken atavistically from
the smooth wood. A woman is not a basket you place your buns in to keep them warm. Not a
brood hen you slip duck eggs under.

Kathy Bray

Now you legislate mineral rights in a woman. You lay claim to her pastures for grazing, fields for growing babies
like iceberg lettuce. You value children so dearly that none ever go hungry, none weep with no one to tend
them. You plant corn and you harvest it to eat or sell. You put the lamb in the pasture to
fatten and haul it in to butcher for chops. You slice the mountain in two for a road and gouge
the high plains for coal and the waters turn muddy for miles and years. Fish die but you do not
call them yours unless you wished to eat them.When mothers work, none lack fresh fruit. Of the womb, we suckled
our mother's blood, and every baby born has a right to love like a seedling to sun. Every baby born
unloved, unwanted, is a bill that will come due in twenty years with interest, an anger that must find a
target, a pain that will beget pain. A decade downstream, a child screams, a woman falls, a synagogue is torched,
a firing squad is summoned, a button is pushed, and the world burns. I will choose what enters me, what
becomes flesh of my flesh. Without choice, no politics, no ethics lives. I am not your cornfield, not your uranium
mine, not your calf for fattening, not your cow for milking. You may not use me as your factory. None
chew lead or cough to death, and your orphanages are empty. Every noon, the best restaurants serve poor children steaks.
At this moment, at nine o'clock, a partera performs a tabletop abortion on an unwed mother in Texas who can't
get Medicaid any longer. In five days, she will die of tetanus, and her little daughter will cry and be
taken away. Next door, a husband is a non-negotiable demand. Bray is a senior center major from San Antonio, Texas.
"Right to Life" copyright published by permission of Alfred A. Knopf, Inc. 1980 by Marge Piercy.

Priests and legislators do not hold shares in my womb or my mind. This is my body. If I give
it to you, I want it back. My life is their control. The Somoza regime purchased its arms and goods
from the United States. Because they bought American goods and were anti-communist, the U.S. government supported it. The United States
turned a blind eye when the Somoza government exploited and murdered. The United States just kept the taxpayers’ money flowing
into Nicaragua. The people of Nicaragua finally gained enough power and overthrew the Somoza tyrants. The Nicaraguans were now offered
two choices: a return to dictatorship under a U.S.-backed regime, or the Marxist Sandinista government. They chose the Sandinistas. The
Nicaraguans are now rebuilding their armed forces with the aid of Cuba and the Soviet Union. Who else can they
turn to? The United States would not sell weapons to them because they are not anti-communist right-wingers like the Somozas
were. So they have no choice but to turn elsewhere. The United States charges that Nicaragua does not need to
build up its army and that it is doing so in order to invade its neighbors. But the Sandinistas must
build up their armed forces to survive. The U.S. is attempting to overthrow them by mining Nicaraguan harbors and sending
aid to the guerillas fighting the Sandinistas. Nicaragua is surrounded by El Salvador and Honduras, and each country is crawling
with U.S. training troops. The Nicaraguans are worried, and they have a right to be. It cannot be denied that
the U.S. government is trying to oust the Sandinistas and replace them with a pro-American regime. But the last U.S.-backed
government was the oppressive Somozas. The Nicaraguans are satisfied with their own government, which they just re-elected, and do not
want the U.S. interfering in their business. Should we support the U.S. government’s attempt to overthrow an established government in
another country just because they are not right-wing fascists like the Somoza dictators were?

Kevin C. Dunn

Phonathon

To the Editors:

We want to thank everyone who participated in this year's Phonathon. Approximately 300 students made 3,852 calls over seven evenings.
We would have done well to have matched last year's total of $103,000. Instead, we actually increased it by 33
percent; our total this year was over $137,000. Congratulations to everyone for this tremendous success. Rusk and PAX deserve special
recognition since they had the highest total of all the groups. In one evening, they raised over $21,000. The Phonathon
Committee would especially like to thank the following night chairmen and committee members for their efforts: Dave White, Roger Kromer,
Dana Lemon, Catherine Melton, Boyd Blackburn, Catherine Norton, Dan Lindsey, Harding Erwin, Ross Hunter, Christie Johnson, Steve Hughes, Kevin Horan,
Andy Kromer, Jay Wilkins, Rob Bradford, Dan Murrey, Howie Moyes, Sheley Revis, Katherine Prillaman, Jill Boyette, Christie McGuire, Liz Relyea,
and Bonnie Bolton.

Christi Hayes
Mark Sandy

Thank You

To the Editors:

Thank you, Ross Holt and Dave McGee, for editing the paper for the last year. You all have made many
improvements and have carried on a great tradition. The paper has become well-respected and well-read, thanks to your efforts and
all of those who helped you. You must be glad to finally have the great burden off your shoulders. Believe
me, it gets better every day you're no longer editors. Have a good spring term! Go out and enjoy the
sunshine and free Thursday nights! I know you have done what sometimes appears to be a thankless job. Well, I
thank you.

David B. Resnik

Editor's note: Resnik is an Editor Emeritus of The Davidsonian.
