- THE DAVIDSONIAN
  John Gathings, Editor
  Kevin Horan, Executive Editor
  Will Thomason, Business Manager
  Brooke Knight, Managing Editor
  David Van Pelt, News Editor
  Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
  Andy Barron, Sports Editor
  Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
  Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor
  John Elster, Advertising Manager
  Amy Harrell, Circulation Manager

THE ELECTRON | Honor Council

On Tuesday we will, once again, elect new members of the Honor Council. Holding the most powerful positions on campus, these leaders will be elected without any campaigning, face-to-face contact, or verbal discussion. Is this an effective way to select our most powerful leaders? We feel it is not.

The SGA Elections Council implemented the rule prohibiting campaigning last year. Though the rule was designed to strengthen the Council’s integrity, it instead weakens it if we do not take voting seriously. Their decision de-politicizes the process, but it sacrifices the personal aspect necessary to make an informed decision. Without the right of candidates to campaign or even discuss issues with students, we must rely on personal recommendations, knowledge of personalities, and gut reactions to decide which candidates are the most qualified. This threatens to make the Honor Council elections nothing more than a popularity contest. Do the candidates elected possess the integrity demanded of them, or are they merely the most public campus figures?

FeaCleubl- @ MICROSCOPE? ... OH, WE SOLD THAT SO WE COULD PAY FOR THIS LOVELY MONUMENT...

Friday, March 29, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

The restrictions placed on Honor Council elections put an extra burden of responsibility on the voter. Student access to the candidates is severely limited, therefore the informed voter is left to research each candidate on his own, if he can first discover who the candidates are.

To the Editors:

There will be much discussion of Karl Lorenz’s opinions on abortion as published in The Davidsonian on March 22, 1985. Without joining the argument, I would like to point out that use of the terms “mongoloid” and “mongolian idiot” to describe persons with trisomy-21, or Down’s syndrome, is offensive and outdated.

Seek Answers

Before elections start on Tuesday, we implore you to take them very seriously. The Honor Council is responsible for upholding and defending the backbone of Davidson College—its Honor Code. Without a strong and reliable Honor Council, the strength of our Code is threatened. We seek only to remind you that this should not be a popularity contest, but rather a decision on the integrity of individuals.

Because of the campaigning rules for these offices, this election requires more work on the part of the voters than any other. Because of the nature of the office, this election also requires more careful deliberation on the part of voters, as officers serve concurrent terms until graduation. Get out and find out who is running for these offices. Do some research on the candidates and make the best possible choice, not only for yourself, but also for the good of your college.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Letters of general interest, but we adhere to these four guidelines: 

1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday. 
2) We require that letters be neatly typed. 
3) We require that letters be signed. 

The Davidsonian “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions articles on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community. The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

We adhere to these guidelines: 

1) We require that all articles be in our hands at 7 p.m. Monday. 
2) We accept typed articles and those written legibly, double-spaced. 
3) We require that opinions be signed. We will print signed articles only if a compelling reason exists for withholding the author’s name, and the author is known to either the editor or executive editor. 
4) We will not edit opinions for style or content but we reserve the right to edit for rules of common English. We will inform the author of substantial changes. 
5) Since space for Opinions articles is limited, we reserve the right to select articles from those we receive for publication. We will attempt to print any article we withhold from publication for space reasons the next week.

News Staff: Ted Wilson, Assistant News Editor, Richard Cloudt, Andrea Diedrich, Roxanna Guilford, Nelle McCorkle, Tom Schilling, Lee White, Allison Wills 

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Bill Bugg, Craig Detweiler, Thurston Hatcher, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris, Samuel Scott, Treeby Williams, Allison Wills 

Sports Staff: Patricia Hahn, Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley, Perry Mathewes, Edwin Page 

Photography Staff: Christian Harberts, Assistant Photography Editor; Brad Brechtelsbauer, Jill Boyette, Phillip Dennis, Warriner Inge, Rocky Kmiecik, Bruce von Stein 

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey 

Advertising Staff: Joanneke Brentjens, David Van Pelt 

Production Staff: Pauline Rhodes 

Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Anne Lambert, Lisa Lano, Martha Yeide, Frank Roberts 

Letters Policy Definition Refined Syndrome, is at best terribly insensitive and at worst a racial slur and should be avoided. As for the other side of the coin, in Mongolia individuals with trisomy-21 are known as “Caucasoid idiots.” 

John H. Williamson 
Chairman Biology Department 

Include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors. 

4) We reserve the right not to print letters that: 
a) function as advertisements; 
b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes; 
c) represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed on the same topic.