Friday, October 4, 1985. THE DAVIDSONIAN

Who’s On First? College football: the good, the bad and the ugly

By ANDY BARRON

Confusion dominates the world of college football. The last off-season failed to clear the congested air surrounding Brigham Young’s controversial national championship. No dominant team has surfaced during this young season, no favorites for the Heisman Trophy have broken away from the pack, and NCAA violations seem to have become a brand of legitimacy to would-be contenders.

Before writing this column, I took a random poll to see how many people could name the number one team in college football. I conducted this rigorous, scientific poll over a period of about fifteen minutes, asking a broad cross-section of the people I recognized on my way to the library. Less than one-third of the people interrogated knew the Iowa Hawkeyes are this week’s king of the college football mountain.

Iowa has a fine coach in Hayden Fry and as rabid a bunch of fans as anywhere in the nation. However, I want to know who would want to play football at Iowa? Apparently, some pretty talented players wanted to go to Iowa City to play ball because the Hawkeyes have been POUNDING some teams. Quarterback Long is currently the nation’s fourth leading passer and a definite Heisman Trophy candidate.

As in any young season, any offensive player with greater than marginal talent is considered a Heisman Trophy candidate. Though the list has been pared considerably, a dozen legitimate contenders continue to present their case. Auburn running back Bo Jackson leads the Heisman parade with his 190-plus yards a game rushing. Brigham Young quarterback Robbie Bosco’s air assault on the nation’s defensive backfields makes him Jackson’s leading competitor. Though Jackson and Bosco are not the only legitimate candidates, I would be surprised to see anyone else succeed Doug Flutie as the nation’s premier college football player.

Unfortunately, in today’s world of college football, any program that moves from the cellar to the top of the rankings gets questions concerning its integrity. So many teams are on probation or about to go on probation that any team possessing the courage to run a clean program might win the national championship by being the only team ELIGIBLE for the national championship.

The latest scandal concerns “boosters” paying players weekly “allowances” in exchange for the players attending the “boosters’” school. Texas Christian recently joined Southwestern Conference rivals Southern Methodist, Texas, and Texas A&M on the NCAA's blacklist. Southern Methodist, the nation’s third-ranked team, recently went on probation again (SMU has spent eleven of the last fourteen years on probation!) and the others also appear ready to sit out the post-season festivities.

TCU should get a pat on the back for their handling of their recent ethical slip-up. Coach Jim Wacker, who vowed to run a program “clean enough to eat off” when he took the head coaching position two years ago, revealed the violations (six players receiving money to play) as soon as he found out about them. By cleaning their own house, TCU should receive a mild penalty, if any, from the NCAA. SMU should take notice.

The rankings controversy of last year and the rampant cheating are deeply interwoven. The pressure on coaches to achieve high rankings makes cheating so tempting. Brigham Young, deemed an unworthy national champion for playing a weak schedule, got the national championship when their chief competition, and probably the nation’s real number one team, Florida, went on probation for massive rules violations.

As baseball is under siege for its drug use, college football faces a serious problem in rampant cheating. The two main problems, illegal payoffs in recruiting by fans and tragic academic violations, need to be addressed quickly. A radical idea to end “booster” payoffs would be for Congress to make suchpractices illegal. Right now, only the players who take money and the schools these players play for are punished. Making “booster” payments illegal would punish the real criminals. Don’t look for Congress to take this step soon, however, and expect the cheating to go on.

The real tragedy in college football is the hundreds of athletes who fail to receive an education for any of a dozen possible reasons. Some athletes shouldn't be in college, some might do better in school if the demands associated with playing major college football, in terms of both time and pressure, weren't so great, and some are encouraged not to worry about school and therefore don’t. The point is, too many “student-athletes” aren't graduating. No proposal or rule will make every football player graduate. What the NCAA needs to do is establish education as the most important part of college athletics. Rules that cut the time involved in playing football or tied scholarship levels for a school to that school’s graduation rate of football players would be good first steps.

College football has plenty of problems; but the fan shouldn't despair. The broad base of good teams has made college football more competitive and more exciting than ever. Iowa, Oklahoma State, and Air Force are in the top twenty while former juggernauts such as Southern California and Notre Dame are absent. With more coaches like TCU's Wacker, there's hope the game will get cleaned up and that across the nation the term “student-athlete” won't be a contradiction.

|-77 at Hwy 73

Field hockey sees progress
By EDWIN PAGE

This week the Davidson women’s field hockey team managed to get their game back on track and continue the improvement that has marked most of the season. Yet once again the Cats have nothing to show for their efforts in the win column. Against their toughest competition to date, the Cats fell 6-2 to High Point on Monday and dropped a 2-1 nailbiter at Wake Forest on Wednesday.

Davidson spotted High Point an insurmountable 3-0 lead in the first 10 minutes of the game. All three goals came on corners. After the rocky start, the Cats fought back on goals by freshman Margo Mims and junior co-captain Heather McKee, who scored on a penalty stroke. High Point added another goal and the game remained 4-2 until High Point added two cheapies at the end of the game to make the final margin an ugly 6-2, a score not indicative of the actual closeness of the game.

On Wednesday, the Cats went up against a talented Wake Forest team and came home with their finest effort of the season. In the rain at Wake Forest, an early goal put the Cats in the hole again 1-0. Later in the half, junior Margy Oliver, playing what coach Patty Daley called her best game, knotted the score at one apiece. In the second half, the game stayed in front of the Davidson goal for most of the 35 minutes, but the defense, led by McKee, juniors Pam Harmann and goalie Nana Lay, stalled the Wake Forest attack until late in the game when the Deacons went ahead for good.

Despite the loss, the Cats came home optimistic. According to Daley, “We put a lot together and we played outstanding defense.” The Cats need to build on last week’s good play because the schedule doesn’t get any easier for a while. On Tuesday at 4:30, the Cats play Duke at home in only the second contest at Davidson this year. Then on Thursday, they travel to play a very talented Radford team. These two games mark the toughest part of the schedule. But with the kind of play they exhibited at Wake Forest, the Cats might make things interesting.

Pizza Delivery 892-8686
Cornelius Lake Norman 892-7805

UNITED CAROLINA BANK
137 N. Main St. Davidson 892-7815