David Williams

Normally it seems unnecessary to carry on a controversy for an extended period of time. However, in light of Heidi
Hooker’s dozen or so unfounded accusations in her opinions article in last week’s Davidsonian, I feel as if I have
no alternative but to respond rationally.

Hooker states that I “told McNeilly, as a condition for her interview for [my] article, that the article would not
be on the front page but on the third or fourth pages.” I have no idea where Hooker received her
information, but I never promised McNeilly anything about the location of the article in the paper. Toward the end of
our interview, McNeilly did ask me on what page the article might possibly appear, and I told her that I
thought it would probably appear on page three or four. However, no conditions were ever made for the interview; the
decision on where to place an article in a newspaper is decided by the editor, not the reporter. If McNeilly
had denied me an interview, it would have only been to the loss of Rusk house, as the article would
then have been one-sided.

Ms. Hooker states that I “jumped in too deep without opening [my] eyes” in reporting the article. I guess that
if I had opened my eyes, I would have printed the full police report in the article, which states that
“students were throwing one another across the room on their bellies and backs on a floor saturated in alcohol.” Ms.
Hooker states that “Paintings were carefully watched and bartenders were sensitive towards the consumption of liquor.” I guess that if
I had “opened my eyes,” I would have also printed from the police report that “students were getting behind the
bar mixing their own drinks,” and that “a lot of foul language was used by some of the students toward
the police. There were 50-60 students in the room during the disturbance... and the biggest majority was highly intoxicated. Some
were unable to walk and had to be carried out.” Instead, I “closed” my eyes and reported Thrower's comments: “I
felt like the members of Rusk House did an excellent job as far as overall security and protecting the paintings.”
And I reported McNeilly’s statement: “We hired students to watch the paintings for 1 hour and 1-1/2 hour shifts. Also,
we kept tables between paintings and the crowd.”

The most ridiculous accusation in Hooker's article is the claim that I didn’t do “anything more than research the superficial
details from official reports.” Ms. Hooker, I only talked to three policemen, examined the damaged Cushman, interviewed the President, Treasurer,
and Social Chairman of Rusk, and had the Dean of Students spend over an hour composing what I hoped would
be a neutral statement about the incident. I did all this in only 48 hours! The only statements I did
not include in the article were those from the official police report.

And finally, where did Hooker get the idea that the opening and closing paragraphs of my article were anti-Rusk? I
want to formally apologize to the members of Rusk if I embarrassed them by “magnifying their semi-formal to such campus-wide
attention;” that was not the intent of the article. But I have never had any “anti-Rusk” sentiments, as Hooker claims.
Maybe Hooker would rather have seen a “pro-Rusk” article, with an opening statement such as: “Although a fight broke out,
and the party had to be closed down, and the President had to be called to the scene, and a
police car was turned over, nothing major really happened at the Rusk semi-formal.” As a journalist, I believe that it
is my obligation to be as non-partisan as possible. Maybe Ms. Hooker should attempt to remove the log from her
eyes before she tries to remove the speck from someone else’s.

Williams is a junior political science major from Memphis, Tenn.

---

Adulthood is more than going off to college

Dan Murrey

Dear Mom,

You’re not going to believe what’s happened to me. Well, actually, you probably will. In fact, you probably would have
predicted it considering you have watched me develop through the stages of pre-adolescent bedroom messiness and the general apathy concerning
living conditions in my adolescence, to the proud early college years during which I was on a first-name basis with
the county health officials. Yes, you will probably smile the omniscient smile of a loving mother who had known the
truth all along but could never quite convince her son of it.

You see, last night I returned to my room from a laborious night of socializing in the library, only to
be blasted in the nose with a stench roughly equivalent to that given off by twenty-six gallons of spoiled yak’s
milk. After checking my shoes and my roommate’s underwear to make sure they were not the source, I turned to
my refrigerator. An eerie feeling possessed me as I opened the door — a feeling akin to that of a
frontiersman, a pioneer, an explorer of the unknown reaches of the universe who is about to see things never before
seen by human eyes. I watched in awe as a mutated form of bacteria, which had been growing on a
slab of cheese, rose up, unscrewed the top of the salad dressing, and began consuming my beloved Marie’s Blue Cheese.
The milk had coagulated and taken on a greenish-orange hue much like the slab of cheese. A can of Hershey’s
syrup (no one knows where that came from) had become firmly embedded in the door rack and had acquired the
consistency of pine tar.

At this point, most people consider you to be an adult when you make the break from home and begin
college.— living on your own and setting your own house rules

I had neither the courage nor the desire to open the cup of sour cream to find out what it
was doing. I quickly unplugged the monster, moved it into the hallway, and locked the door, thus ensuring that the
cheese bacteria would not ooze up into the loft in the middle of the night and asphyxiate me in my
sleep. Finally, after notifying the Orkin SWAT Team, I sat down amid the mass of books, clothes, cassette tapes, letters,
and newspapers to ponder the situation. After several minutes of reflection, I was brought to the question that you and
Dad have been asking me for years — am I really ready for all of this freedom?

Most people consider you to be an adult when you make the break from home and begin college — living
on your own and setting your own house rules. But I wonder, if this is true, then why is the
Orkin Army outside right now scouring my fridge with poisonous gases — would a real adult have come to this?
It seems that leaving home really has nothing to do with it. As we both know, the break from childhood
to adulthood is neither that easy nor that distinct. It is an ongoing process that involves many factors, not the
least of which is learning to handle my new playthings like cars, computers, and refrigerators. Another aspect seems to be
learning to deal with things like alcohol, dating, and Dr. Jackson's calculus reviews. But I guess the most important —
and most distinctive — attribute of an adult is how he deals with other people, especially in tight living situations
as with roommates or in a family. It’s tough enough to give each person I meet a fair shot, attempting
to greet them without any prejudices, but it is even more difficult to do so with those with whom I
live closely. After living with you for years as a mother, I must now expand that view to see you
also as a person with whom I can live as a housemate and a friend.

I suppose I see becoming an adult as becoming an equal — not forgetting that you are my mother, but
realizing that all adults living in a community, no matter what their relationship to one another, have contributions they must
make and needs that must be met. And as an equal, I have a responsibility to use (and maintain) my
“playthings” and privileges as an adult properly in order to receive the benefits of living in a society or, more
particularly, a family. This all seems very self-evident now, but I never really saw it so clearly before I looked
in my fridge. By the way, the Orkin man is leaving now, and I need to thank him. I'll see
you for Parents’ Weekend; I hope my room will be ready.

Love,
Dan

Murrey is a junior religion major from Pulaski, Tennessee.

Panic and alienation not solutions for AIDS
Tim Brown

On the whole matter of AIDS, one aspect of public policy I find disturbing: the fixing of our sights on
the victim — orphan, homosexual, unwanted child, tart — and the victim thereupon becomes the focus of statutes, of laws,
biases, and attitudes. A concern. Los Angeles recently made law: That it is illegal to discriminate in any way against
an AIDS victim. I wonder, and might you too, about the tribunes who introduced the law on, say, a Friday.
Did they withdraw their children from public school on the following Monday? The question is a provocative one: What about
nonsufferers who cannot afford a private institution? What are they supposed to do? I ask the tribunes.

Another concern: Should society be encouraged to distinguish one sufferer from another, to treat differently a 25-year-old male who frequents
a homosexual club on Fridays and Saturdays and a seven-year-old boy who contracted AIDS by way of a blood transfusion?
In fine: They either suffer from AIDS or they don’t.

About AIDS, a disease 6,000 people are dying from, in this country alone: We really don’t know that much. Statistics
suggest that AIDS fatalities will double every year, or every ten months, or every nine. That a million of us
have been exposed to it, or two million. That it is a disease for gays and lesbians only; for gays,
lesbians, and drug addicts only; for everyone. Thomas V. DiBacco, a historian at American University, likens AIDS to cholera. The
Indianapolis Star warns AIDS could kill 262 million by 2000 and that it is as lethal as a nuclear explosion.
Others compare it to the bubonic plague which killed one-fourth of Europe’s population in the 1300s, or 60 million people.
And doctors now state cocksuredly: We can detect AIDS in a blood bank 99.4 percent of the time — terrific
news for those who receive the remaining 0.6 percent of the blood.

I agree. It has been sensationalized. But the sensationalism becomes more acceptable upon reading that when Rock Hudson was discharged,
all nurses who tended him burned their dresses, this scenario taking place in a modern hospital; upon reading of a
doctor treating AIDS patients in San Francisco who says he calls, frequently, another doctor whenever he feels just a wee
bit under the weather.

I leave you, as I would like to be left — with some hope. The virus has been identified, isolated,
and cultured. We know how it spreads. We now have drugs to slow its reproduction and its destruction of disease-fighting
blood cells. In this article, I call not for quarantine, but instead, I seek only to calm fears and to
promote understanding.

Brown is a sophomore from Mint Hill, N.C. and is opinions editor of The Davidsonian.
