College plans sports complex, p.9

The Davidsonian
Volume LXXV, Number 6
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, October 25, 1985

College establishes Arnette Memorial Book Fund
By NELLE McCORKLE

The Davidson College community has established an endowed book fund at the E.H. Little Library in memory of Nancy Rodden Arnette, who died last Wednesday after an extended illness.

Arnette started working for the college 11 years ago as secretary for the Self-Study and in 1975 became secretary to the vice-president for academic affairs T.C. Price Zimmermann. Many members of the faculty and staff worked closely with Arnette through the Academic Affairs Office. Wednesday, several commented on their colleague and friend.

History Professor David Shi noted the appropriateness of the Book Fund, saying: “Perhaps because of her own background as a former English major in college, Nancy seemed to take an especially keen and sincere interest in what faculty members were researching and writing about. I remember being somewhat taken aback when she told me how much she had enjoyed reading one of my books.

“It was a joy to walk into her office because you could always count on her greeting you with a smile and a genuine interest in your work and family.”

Director of South Asian Studies I. Job Thomas said, “It’s so hard to think that someone so businesslike and cheerful who made you so comfortable and was so full of good spirit within a very short time is not there any more.”

Zimmermann said: “Nancy Arnette was in every way an exceptional person. Unfailingly cheerful and optimistic under the stress of life’s daily routines, she faced the supreme test of a mortal illness with magnificent resources of perseverance and courage. Her responses to the difficult decisions she faced were characteristically generous. She submitted herself to protracted and often painful treatments out of a loving sense of responsibility to those whom she knew depended on her.

“Outgoing in her concern for and support of others, she was herself a very private person, preferring to carry her own burdens as quietly as possible, revealing them only to a few close friends. Even on the most difficult days she had for everyone a smile, a cheerful word, a sympathetic ear.

“When disappointed in people she still bore no grudges, preferring to live at peace with others and herself. She talked little about her faith and lived it much. That is a lesson we can all learn from the example of her life.”

Loyce Davis, Secretary to the President, said, “I have lost a dear friend and co-worker. Nancy and I shared so much over the more than ten years she sat across the hall.”

Convocation features Rusk
By DAVID WILLIAMS

Former Secretary of State Dean Rusk ’31 spoke at Fall Convocation yesterday concerning the possibilities of future nuclear war and answered questions from a student panel on topics of current international salience.

Rusk first reminisced about his childhood when he would recite the first question of the Presbyterian catechism, “What is the chief end of man?” He said that “many years later, in the Cuban missile crisis, it was sobering to realize that this had become an operating question before governments of the world.”

He said that in 1959 author C.P. Snow predicted a nuclear war would come within 10 years. “But in 1985, we have put behind us 40 years without the firing of a single nuclear weapon in anger,” Rusk said. He continued: “I mention this as a partial antidote to all the Doomsday talk which has been boomed at you from all directions.

“My approach [to nuclear war] is not rooted in a fear which leads to irrational thought, but in the reality of the enormous power of human beings who have eaten the fruits of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. The fingers on the nuclear triggers are not itching, waiting for a pretext to pull them. We have learned in these 40 years that the Soviets have no more interest in destroying mother Russia than we have in destroying America.

Thus, in our diplomatic relations with the U.S.S.R., Rusk said: “We and the Russians must learn not to play games of chicken with each other. You might have nuclear war if people are driven into a corner. For that reason John F. Kennedy went to special pains not to drive Mr. Kruschev into that corner.”I think we and the Russians need to watch the level of rhetoric between our two sides, because it’s always possible that either side could believe the rhetoric.” He added: “We ought to be able to find a way to reduce these stockpiles of weapons among frail human beings.” On the November summit between Gorbachev and Reagan, Rusk commented: “I hope they will not waste time with ideological invective against each other. I hope they would have the sense not to make threats to each other, but would try to find the greatest common interests and responsibilities which we and they share. At the moment, I would hope that Gorbachev and Reagan shake hands and go away without doing any damage.”

Concerning the role of the media in international affairs, Rusk said: “There is no question that the media plays an increasing role in handling international matters. The very answer given to the question, ‘what is news?’ by the news media can’t help but give us a distorted view of the world.” Rusk stated that most treaties and agreements between countries are kept, and most countries are at peace, but “agreement, normality and serenity are not newsworthy. And there are also problems with context of time.” Rusk commented that the problem of terrorism “is one of the most difficult problems which we have to deal with.” He said that (continued on page 3)

from me — and I don’t have to tell you that I miss her greatly. She was one of the brightest, most loving, compassionate and unselfish people I have ever known. She taught all of us who were close to her just what courage means.” Davidson resident Mary Virginia Ratliff, who worked with Arnette on a United Methodist Church study of higher education, called Arnette “unpretentious in spite of the fact that she had so many abilities. She could do anything!” Ratliff’s husband, economics professor Charles Ratliff sang with Arnette in the choir of the Davidson United Methodist Church; he described Arnette as “keenly perceptive” and having a “loving relationship with all other people.” Sociology/Anthropology Professor Rosemary Zumwalt called Arnette “absolutely competent in everything she did...she could handle any number of things and remain collected and happy and cheerful. “[I] found her to always be warm and friendly and willing to talk — very intellectually curious — we exchanged thoughts on Margaret Mead’s Blackberry Winter... Nancy was a person with a lot of dimensions. “I’m about to plant my bulbs this year, and I remember discussing them last year with Nancy. This year when they come up I'll think about Nancy.” Rick Love, Assistant to the President, said: “I suppose when we say so readily that it’s the people who make Davidson special, each of us has specific individuals in mind. Nancy has been one of those individuals for me, for many of us. We'll miss her as a bright and capable colleague, but even more as a dear, dear friend.”

JYA Inauguration Reinhardt Paul Gunther. College officially announces JYA program switch

By NELLE McCORKLE and AARON LEVINE

The JYA program with the Julius-Maximilians University in Würzburg, Germany was officially inaugurated on Thursday at the Fall Convocation. The official signing of the agreement between President Theodore Berchem of Würzburg and President Kuykendall took place an hour before the convocation itself. Under the agreement's terms, up to thirty students will study at Würzburg beginning in 1986. Davidson will provide two full scholarships for Würzburg students to study here. Presidents Kuykendall and Berchem signed the agreement at 9:30 a.m. in the Baxter-Davidson Room in Chambers. After the signing of the agreement, which Registrar Sue Ross sealed, Kuykendall toasted, “We raise our glasses in celebration of this happy day.”

During the Convocation itself, in further recognition of the signing, Berchem and Würzburg Chancellor Reinhard Paul Ginther were presented with honorary doctorates, in letters and laws, respectively. Afterwards, Berchem addressed faculty, staff, and students. In his speech Berchem quoted Nietzsche, saying, “...a true education only begins high above the world of necessity, of struggle for existence, and of need.” Würzburg is one of Germany’s most prestigious universities. Nobel laureate in physics William Roentgen, who discovered the X-Ray in 1895, was a faculty member. Five other Nobel recipients over the years, including this year’s prizewinner in physics, have had ties with the school. Today the university has established relationships with 13 foreign universities in 11 countries.