2.

Student Elections Announced

Elections for SGA president and vice president will be held March 26, 1985, from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. in
the Chambers Lobby and the Conversation Pit. Sign-ups for Quips and Cranks editor, Hobart Park editor, class senators, Honor Council,
Student Conduct Council, CCRL, Review Board, Defense Advisor, and Student Solicitor are being held in the Dean of Students’ Office
from March 19 to March 26.

Essay Contest Offers Scholarship

A national essay contest offering a $10,000 scholarship and three $2,500 honorable mentions has been announced by the Institute of
Financial Education.

The contest, based on the theme “You Can Save Your Country,” is open to all full-time students at four-year colleges.
Essays are limited to 1,500 words. They will be judged on the basis of documentation, originality, clarity, logic, and persuasiveness
in their presentation of how federal deficit spending affects the country’s and the writer's future. Entry deadline is Tuesday, April
23, 1985.

IFE President Dale Bottom said the Institute is conducting the essay contest “to help alert our young people to the
problems they will face because the federal government is building up the national debt—and to generate some thinking that could
help lead to possible solutions.”

Bottom noted that the federal government has amassed $1.6 trillion in debt and currently spends $4.00 for every $3.00 it
collects from taxes and other revenues.

“We must tell our elected officials in Washington, D.C., that we don’t want to saddle ourselves and future generations with
a crushing debt burden,” said Bottom in a letter to college presidents.

Essays entered in the IFE contest will be forwarded to Congress.

Essays should be sent to “You Can Save Your Country” national essay contest, Institute of Financial Education, 111 East Wacker
Drive, Chicago, IL 60601. The essays must be typed, double-spaced on plain white letter-size (8-1/2x11) paper and include the home
address and home telephone number of the contestant—plus the name and address of the school. The writer’s name must appear
on each page of the essay.

Entries must be postmarked no later than April 23, 1985, and received no later than the close of business April
29, 1985.

Students Arrive For SGA Weekend

This weekend the Admissions Office hosts 112 of Davidson's strongest high school applicants for SGA Weekend, according to Admissions Counselor
Steve Soud.

This year’s group is “the most we’ve ever had,” according to Soud. He said the event offers applicants the chance
to become acquainted with Davidson College through a series of speeches, panel discussions, and informal meetings with Davidson students and
faculty.

Last night prospective students heard an overview of Davidson life from students who spoke on the social, athletic, and academic
aspects of Davidson. The Admissions Office sponsored a coffee and cokes reception this morning, followed by a seminar entitled Life
A.D. (After Davidson), in which Davidson alumni and professors will assess the value of a liberal arts education. A faculty
reception will follow this afternoon and a banquet will be held tonight.

Spencer Elects New Officers

Spencer House is now firmly established as a member of Patterson Court. Having fulfilled the College’s requirement of a minimum
of 60 women committed to a new house’s contract, members elected officers: Connie Clark, president; Laura Annunziata, vice-president; Corliss Carter,
secretary; Elizabeth Crook, treasurer; Kate Brewer and Sian Hunter, house managers; and Holly Carlton, social chairman.

Another stipulation for the development of the new house was that Fannie Brandon and Mable Torrence, formerly cooks at F
& M, be hired. According to Annunziata, “We hear they’re great!”

The house will soon start a fundraiser for famine in Africa through the Red Cross. Other projects include the formation
of IMAC teams for softball, volleyball, and racquetball.

Though the house currently accommodates 60 women, Annunziata said, “We will take as many as we can get.”

Trustees Approve New Budget

The Board of Trustees approved a tuition increase for the 1985-86 academic year and a proposal to allocate money for
the recruitment of minorities at its February meeting.

In a letter to parents, President Kuykendall explained the proposed increase in tuition costs included in the budget. The comprehensive
fee schedule for 1985-86 remains just below the $10,000 mark at $9,995. Kuykendall called upon parents to keep in mind
Davidson’s fees as compared to most institutions of similar standing which charge a great deal more than $10,000.

According to Comptroller Bob Davidson, the total expenditures for 1985-86 equal $16,449,458. These expenditures do not include the auxiliary enterprises
such as the Commons food services, the student store, and the laundry which are generally self-sustaining. The revenue for the
expenditures is generated through tuition, gifts, trusts, and the endowment as well as profit-making auxiliary enterprises which generate about $400,000.
The tuition covers a little more than half of expenditures.

Material contributed by Andrea Diedrich.

THE FABULOUS

PLANTS
POWELL

LONG TAILED

STUDY ABROAD

ENGINEERING WARD
SWEDEN AND ENGLAND

THE MULULAN GE STOVE

MING STREET

Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St. Davidson, N.C.
28036
892-7521

Welcome to Spring Wine Special—
$3.60 750ml
$5.60 1.5L Magnum
Imported From France
