Friday, January 25, 1985 / The Davidsonian

Of The House Of Usher: A Cautionary Tale

Be no longer a Chaos, but a World, or even a Worldkin. Produce! Produce! Were it but the pitifullest infinitesimal fraction of a Product, produce it!
—Thomas Carlyle, Sartor Resartus

This has not been a good week. The word came last weekend that the family homestead sold (we call it the Ponderosa, or “House of Usher” for short), so I hopped Piedmont’s equivalent of the Concorde to help out with the move in Music City (a three-minute flight from CLT). I describe the highlights of the weekend as a caution to anyone who thinks that a Mayflower Moving Kit is any more help than a mess kit when it comes to breaking familial camp. Yes, I may be a rube, a greenhorn in matters domestic; but I can tell when I’m being made light of.

Stop one: the Good-Yes Moving Co. These men — surly, sullen, of few words — can smell a moving neophyte a mile away. “So you’ll be real careful with our stuff?” I asked, nodding in hopes they would start nodding too. “Sign here,” the slippery-haired manager answered. A tour of the furniture storage facilities comforted me enormously. “Temperature controlled? How controlled?” I ventured, knees knocking and teeth chattering. “Well,” Mr. Glossy Head said, “we always know what temperature it is in here. I’d say that’s pretty controlled.” My nose went from blue to violet.

Assured now that our treasures would survive unsullied, we returned to our little Biltmore House. All we had to do now was remove years of accretion placed in our little Manderley by the Troll of Additive Vandalism. This troll is the one who finds out what a family never uses, then puts lots of it in the attic and basement. Most of these objects are larger than the door through which they ostensibly entered the space; that is a Troll trademark. Another clue: these objects all date from 1973. Given the high desirability of items such as macramé purses and pants with generous cuffs, our attic task went quickly.

The real grump producer was yet to come. Kitchen. Rated R. After packing our kitchen utensils I now understand the beauty of the simple life. I'd trade all the crock pots and ice jets in the kitchen of our Tara for a knife and a box of matches. Maybe a piece of string. And a spoon. My point is that we were unearthing Carolingian devices from those cabinets. Two pastry squirters and 16 peanut brittle tins from Aunt Idy do not a kitchen make. Ours was a kitchen gone out of bounds.

I must point out the truest fact of this tale. If you plan to move the day after the Super Bowl, the moving company will fake a snowstorm to delay the job, because all their workers will be hung over. This is what happened to us; so even as I write, the story is unfinished. All the treasures of our Xanadu sit boxed and crated (mostly boxed), waiting for Mr. Slippery Head and his cohorts to toss them in their van (and I have no doubt they'll toss them).

The moral of all this is simple. Streamline your life at all costs. It’s not that I think our family is a bunch of pack rats, it’s just that I think that saving shiny paper, bits of string, and lint will ultimately slow us down.

—ANN MEADOR

First Union National Bank
P.O. Box 39
Davidson Cornelius Huntersville

BUFFET — ALL YOU CAN EAT —
Mooresville’s First And Finest Italian Restaurant
KING Of PIZZA

Sunday 12 Noon - 9:00 P.M.
Tues., Wed. & Thurs. 5 P.M. - 9:00 P.M.

241 SOUTH BROAD STREET — MOORESVILLE — 663-3030

Meal Includes:
SPAGHETTI 100% Durham Wheat
OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE
FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD
PARMESAN — ROMANO CHEESE

SALAD BAR 45 Items
FRESH GREEN VEGETABLES
DELICIOUS FRUITS
FLAVORFUL MEATS
RICH DRESSINGS
TASTYCHEESES * WINE  
CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE  
DESSERT-TEMPTING HAWAIIAN SALAD  
PIZZA  
Still Mooresville’s Finest  
SPICY PEPPERONI  
CANADIAN BACON  
ITALIAN SAUSAGE  
CHICKEN BEEF  
FRESHLY DICED GREEN PEPPERS  
SWEET ONIONS  
SOUP OF THE DAY  
CREAM OF POTATO  
VEGETABLE BEEF STOCK  
CHICKEN NOODLE  
CHILI CON CARNE  
$4.89 PER PERSON  
SPECIAL RATES FOR CHILDREN UNDER 12—25¢ PER YEAR  
Lunch Buffet—Mon.-Sat., 11 AM-2:30 PM $2.99  

---

Splash: Mermaid Adds New Twist To A Romantic Comedy  
By CRAIG DETWEILER  

Splash — Starring Tom Hanks, Daryl Hannah, Eugene Levy, and John Candy. Directed by Ron Howard. A 1984 release. ***1/3*.  

Comedy is sort of funny. It’s hard to categorize, memorize, or plagiarize. Different people, cultures, and age groups respond to widely divergent forms of humor. Viewing Splash in a Salisbury, England movie theatre on a Friday night last summer, I realized the humor gap that separates England from America, like mammals from amphibians. While I laughed at the broad, obvious gags of Splash, my British surroundings remained curiously silent. Ron Howard’s Splash harkens back to the innocent, screwball comedies of Hollywood in the 1930s. Splash contains an arresting combination of fantasy, romance, and comedy that assures entertainment.  

The skimpy plot suggests that a boating accident of a young boy can spark a deep love within his rescuer, a friendly neighborhood mermaid. As the boy gradually becomes an adult food wholesaler in New York City, the mermaid blossoms into a ravishing beauty. Splash takes off from what happens when the mermaid decides to find her lost love in the Big Apple. From her naked arrival at the Statue of Liberty, the mermaid (named Madison after the avenue) undergoes the painful adjustments facing any newcomer to New York City. Madison's arrival at the Statue of Liberty suggests that she is an immigrant about to undergo a trying introduction to American life. Only a real prince charming, like the lonely food distributor, can rescue the mermaid from the evil forces throughout New York.  

The comedy revolves around the absurdities evident in commercial American culture that its inhabitants cannot perceive. Perhaps my British co-viewers did not laugh because Splash is a distinctly American film about specifically American taste and attitudes. In one of the film’s funniest sequences, Madison embarks upon a shopping spree, a familiar endeavor to all true Americans. The fascination she develops for television, spending an entire day in the Stereo/Video department, strikes us as humorous because of its superficial excess. Yet the real humor comes from realizing how similar Madison's devotion to TV comes to the actual American situation. Madison becomes absorbed by the American dream as sold by television, and she takes her vocabulary from its limited supplies.  

Lowell Ganz, Bruce Jay Friedman, and Babaloo (Babaloo?) Mandel compose an admirable script combining satire, slapstick, and romance. The cast does an excellent job of fulfilling their clearly defined roles. Tom Hanks makes an effective, empathy-inducing prince, trying to protect his innocent love. Daryl Hannah brings startling beauty and genuine humor to her role as the lost mermaid. John Candy, playing Hank's lecherous brother, provides the necessary raunchiness, grossness, and broadness to pad the comic episodes. Only Eugene Levy as a cruel scientist seems to overplay his role, supplying more contempt than comedy with his heartless character.  

Like most current comedies, Splash runs out of material and dissolves into a long, closing chase, but enough diverting laughs are offered during the film's first 3/4's. Splash captures the clean, rollicking fun of early Hollywood comedies. Boy meets girl, boy loves girl, boy almost loses girl, but love ultimately conquers all. A warm, entertaining evening at the movies for a chilly Midwinter weekend can be found with Splash. If you've got a genuine, light sense of humor, are willing to laugh at American ideals, and suffer through melodramatic chases, then Splash will supply refreshment for your impoverished American comedy quotient.