6
Postmaster witnesses many years of change

By NELLE McCORKLE

Who manages 3,400 boxes, processes a bulk mailing of 20,000 pieces, and remains calm about a rat at large in
the mailroom? John Fisher, Davidson Postmaster, handles all aspects of his job cheerfully.

“Last week,” Fisher laughed, “we had a rat come in here with the mail from Charlotte... in the mail hamper.
We’ve got all kinds of traps set but we haven't seen hide nor hair of it since... that rat is
probably in New York!”

Fisher, who has been Postmaster since 1981, was born in Laurinburg but came to Davidson when he was only one
year old.

Except for service in a Naval Air Corps torpedo squadron in the Pacific as an aviation ordnanceman from 1944-46, Fisher
has “been here ever since.” Currently, he lives on the land his grandfather farmed, five miles from Davidson.

“I’ve held every job in here,” Fisher said of the Davidson Post Office. Beginning in 1957 as a substitute rural
carrier (at the suggestion of his uncle, a rural carrier in eastern North Carolina), Fisher worked as substitute clerk, regular
clerk, assistant to the postmaster, postal operations supervisor, and (in Charlotte) accountable paper manager before becoming postmaster. Now Fisher supervises
two rural carriers, six clerks, and a custodian.

Of the changes he has seen in the postal system during his career, Fisher called the Post Office’s 1984 move
to the building it now occupies “the biggest and best change. We love our building and we’re real proud of
it. We went through a lot of work, but it was worth it.”

Despite doubling the size of the Post Office in each of the three changes over which Fisher has presided, “We
try to render the same service.” In the most recent move, the Postal Inspection Service required the Davidson Post Office
to install key-opened rather than combination-opened postal boxes, an order Fisher called “less convenient,” but essential to security.

Describing his relationship with the college, Fisher said, “I’ve always had such a close working relationship with them that I
just sort of look at them like a brother.” Fisher deals daily with the college mailroom, Admissions Office, Athletic Department
— “almost every department.”

“I really enjoy working with you kids over there,” Fisher said. “I get a tremendous charge out of working with
you... I think anybody in here will tell you the same thing.”

“One of the biggest things in my job,” Fisher said, “is handing you a package. There’s nothing more rewarding than
to hear you say, ‘Mom came through again!’”

All operations at the Davidson Post Office are done by hand which gave Fisher an unusual opportunity with a recent
package containing a garden hose in an opened box. “More or less for a joke,” Fisher put the hose’s nozzle
into a postal box. When the recipient opened his box, he pulled the entire hose out into the Post Office.

Of his hometown, Fisher said, “I tell you one thing — I’ve been around here a few years. We've still
got the nice quiet town that we had when I was a boy.”

Fisher and his wife, an Elox electronics assembly employee, have three children and five grandchildren.

During his 28-year career, Fisher has held every position at the Davidson Post Office.

College police

By LAURA BATTEN

Officer Tim Ramsey joined the Davidson police force in 1983, after working five years in the grounds department.

Ramsey was born in Myrtle Beach, S.C. but grew up in Charlotte, where he has lived the past 23 years.
Ramsey attended Central Piedmont Community College and then joined the Davidson grounds department in 1978, at which time he began
basic recruit training at Charlotte Police Academy.

Ramsey, who has always been interested in police work, became a member of the Davidson police force a year and
a half ago, after graduating from the Academy. A major reason for joining, Ramsey said, was that he had already
put in five years here, and had established good working relationships and had made many college friends.

When asked to account for the majority of the crime here at Davidson, Ramsey replied, “Town people. No doubt.”

However, Ramsey also asserts that it is the students’ own carelessness and neglect that permits much of the crime, especially
larceny.

“If you make it convenient for someone to steal something, he will... No one thinks it’s going to happen to
them,” he said.

Ramsey enjoys fishing and hunting but claims, “I never got into guns until I was a police officer.”

BRINGING GOVERNMENT INFORMATION TO YOU

Information from the Federal Government on subjects ranging from agriculture to zoology is available at Depository Libraries across the nation.

You can visit these libraries and use the Depository collection without charge.

To find one in your area, contact your local library or write to the Federal Depository Library Program, Office of
the Public Printer, Washington, DC 20401.

The Federal Depository Library Program

This program is supported by The Advertising Council and is a public service of this publication.
