Friday, September 27, 1985

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Who's On First?
By ANDY BARRON

Anyone who saw Davidson’s soccer team upset mighty Duke last week witnessed one of the biggest wins in Davidson soccer
history. The win highlights Davidson’s constant improvement in soccer. Coach Charlie Slagle continues to bring in talented freshmen and the
program moves slowly toward making teams like Duke peers instead of powerful bullies.

While Davidson edges toward the higher reaches of NCAA soccer, most Davidson students know virtually nothing about the sport. In
fact, I would guess that a large number of Davidson students had never seen a soccer game before watching the
Wildcats in action. To Americans as a whole, soccer is still a foreign sport. Outside the United States, soccer reigns
as king. Every nation in Europe and South America has a soccer league and play runs approximately from October through
April.

What makes soccer an interesting sport is its international appeal. Since every nation plays soccer, international competition comes naturally. The
European Cup, for example, is a tournament of the winners of each nation’s league. In America, many have thought it
would be a good idea to have the best American baseball team play the Japanese champion in a real World
Series. In Europe, bunches of international tournaments take place annually.

Unfortunately, soccer’s chief claim to fame lately has been fan riots. Last May, 38 people died and 437 more were
injured at the European Cup final at Brussels between Liverpool of England and Juventus of Turin, Italy. The tragedy occurred
after a group of “hooligans” from the Liverpool fan section attacked the Juventus section, causing a panic and a rush
toward the lone exit by the Juventus fans. The mad rush crushed the victims and led to further fan violence
before the game even started. Officials ordered the game to be played because they feared more violence if the game
was postponed.

The terrible irony of this tragedy is that soccer’s most glorious event short of the World Cup would have gone
almost completely unnoticed in the United States had the riots not occurred. The fact that two of the world’s most
prestigious soccer clubs were playing for Europe’s most hallowed award would not have been enough to draw the attention of
America’s sports public. What a shame.

I have often wondered if soccer will ever “make it” in America. The recent demise of the North American Soccer
League did not help soccer’s chances in the United States. However, mismanagement played a big part in the NASL’s downfall.
At the grassroots level, soccer continues to grow. I have always thought that if a group of dedicated owners formed
a small league of teams manned by strictly American players (Americans would be less expensive than foreign imports and would
attract long-term followings), soccer would flourish if given time.

Soccer has a disadvantage not shared by football, basketball, or baseball in that it doesn't lend itself to television. Soccer
games don’t have time-outs, two-minute warnings, or space between innings to sneak in commercials. For a sport to succeed today,
television money is essential. The NASL’s brief contract with ABC television was the high point of American soccer. Unfortunately, no
one watched The Wonderful World Of Soccer, the games, ABC pulled out, and the NASL went into a fatal tailspin.

If Americans gave soccer a chance, I think soccer would succeed. Soccer can be fast and furious, smooth and graceful,
powerful and rough, or all of the above. There is something for everyone. In addition, a point in soccer is
an achievement, a work of art painstakingly compiled by an offense struggling to beat a defense determined not to fall.
Many sports in America suffer from an abundance of scoring (NFL football, especially). Touchdowns are a dime-a-dozen, goals are treasures.

My plea: watch some soccer. See every match you can at Davidson. Then, when the sport has you in its
grip, you will be ready for this summer and the World Cup, sports’ most watched event. (Yes, even more than
the Olympics!) Anyone who watches the World...Cup with an open mind cannot help but become a soccer fan. Remember last
Friday. Remember the excitement as Davidson turned back Duke’s unrelenting offense again and again and again. Davidson 1, Duke 0!
Soccer truly is a great sport!

Hills Propel Women, Slow Men Cross Country
By RAND HARTSELL

Maybe someone forgot to tell Lynchburg’s women runners that they had to race Davidson last Saturday morning. On the other
hand, Davidson’s men’s team probably wishes they hadn’t been told that they were supposed to race after the women finished.

Sophomore Kappa Peddy led Davidson’s jaunt through the rolling hillside (well, more like mountains) of Lynchburg, Virginia as they compiled
a nearly perfect score of 17 points compared to Lynchburg’s 42. (In cross-country, a team’s individual finishing places are added
to determine the team’s score, with the low score winning. Since five runners score, the lowest score a team can
have is 15, or places one through five.) Only one Lynchburg runner was able to break up the Cats' monopoly
on finish places. Senior captain Judy Dalton and sophomores Laura Fannin, Morrow Reeves, and Debbie Niles occupied places two, three,
five, and six respectively. Lynchburg’s murderous course turned out to be the only aspect of the race which offered Davidson’s
women any challenge. “It was the hardest course we’ll run all year,” said women’s coach Sarah Patterson. Fortunately, the women’s
team had another week of training under their belts or else the course might have gotten the better of them.
“One week of hard training made a noticeable difference,” Patterson continued. “Kappa and Judy were a lot closer together this
past weekend than the weekend before. I expect everyone to get stronger and stronger as the season goes on.” Already,
Fannin’s performance in practice is responding to the speed work the Cats have done. Speedwork, for you armchair runners, is
not the incorporation of amphetamines into one’s training program. It’s a series of runs at a faster than normal pace,
designed to train a runner’s cardiovascular system to handle the fast pace of racing. The recovery periods between runs merit
the regimen its runner's vernacular term — “intervals.”

The men’s team may wish it had used amphetamines. Senior captain Frank Hague turned in a good performance, finishing fourth
overall. Both Roanoke and Lynchburg, however, ran tight team races, with Roanoke demonstrating its collective prowess over the five-mile course.
They racked up only 24 points, placing first, second, sixth, seventh, and eighth. Senior Rob Watkins again anchored the second
position for Davidson; but he was more than 40 seconds off Hague’s pace. “I was happy with my race considering
the hills,” Watkins said. A shake-up characterized the next few positions with freshman Bill Whitfield moving up a notch to
the number three spot. Senior Taylor Simpson, sophomore Bill Breidenstine, and juniors Greg Foreman and Emil Cekada rounded out the
Cats' top seven. Unfortunately, the Cats will lose Simpson to shin splints for tomorrow’s race at The Citadel in Charleston,
S.C. Western Carolina and host The Citadel will be out of the Cats' reach. Davidson has an outside chance to
avenge their loss to Furman of two weeks ago. Success in that endeavor will depend on Watkins and Foreman staying
with Hague, and on Whitfield’s, Breidenstine's, and Cekada’s ability to pull each other along. Coach Sterling Martin hopes freshman Bob
Cornish (sorry about the typo last week Bob) has recovered from the flu bug that afflicted him during the week
preceding the Lynchburg meet. His and sophomore Chris Fisher's presence will also have to be felt in light of Simpson's
absence. The women’s team doesn’t anticipate any difficulty with their lone opponent, Furman, with the exception of Patterson's sister, one
of the Furman runners.

Come See Our Great Selection of Sweaters
Shetlands
Cottons
Lambswool
Orlons
In V-Necks, Crew Necks, Sleeveless
Fashion and Quality Apparel For Men and Women

The Korner Pub... the tradition continues.
WEDNESDAY COLLEGE NIGHT
FREE FOOD!
(1 mile north)

UNITED CAROLINA BANK
1-77 at Hwy Cornelius /L. : Norman
137 N. Main St. 292-7805 Davidson 892-7815
