Opinions

Humans are superior beings... or are they?
Sayres Rudy

At the end of our two-year stint in Humanities, my class and I, having read Lewis Thomas’ *Medusa and the
Snail*, got into a tussle over the real differences between humans and animals. Naturally, I came to the defense of
the humans and all their virtues. I distinctly remember establishing our superiority over the animal kingdom by listing things we
can do that snails, boars, goats, rabbits, and so on can’t do. We humans, I argued, can make shopping lists,
plan, go to proms, recall the past, and use washing machines. I happen to be a direct descendant of Saul
Lieberman, a human, who invented the wheel, so I took this all pretty personally. I made this argument and heard
the perfunctory grumblings of devil’s advocacy so common in such discussions. The grumblings must have made up for in soundness
what they lacked in inspiration because I felt quite emphatic. The ring of the bell that brings the end of
class, and usually amnesia, rang.

It’s been a year and a half since that discussion, and I have given it a lot of thought. I’m
glad I took a position and argued it fairly well. The problem I see as I look back is that
I was dead wrong. I was beginning with the asinine premise that intellectually superior beings are wholly superior beings, and
I was ending with the obvious, equally asinine conclusion, praising humans all over the place.

Well, I’ve been watching animals very closely. Called to Lake Tahoe this summer to do three guest lectures at a
local college on the Ethics of Solipsism and one entitled “Home Ec and You,” I had the opportunity to stay
with my cousin who has two Briards. Briards are very large, strange-looking herding dogs. I went for a long walk
with both of them late one afternoon. They fascinated me. Both would go out a hundred yards ahead of me,
but suddenly the female would turn around, make a beeline for me, circle me, and touch me with her nose.
As it was explained to me later, she was actually checking to be sure I was okay. The Briard will
go off to pursue its curiosity and have its fun, but without being taught to, it will always come back
to see how you're doing.

My own dog, no genius by any standards, saw some ducks on the lake this summer near my place in
the Poconos. I walk around lakes a lot with dogs. Anyway, he, D’art, my dog, jumped in and swam after
the ducks. He swims beautifully and he has never had a lesson. So many examples like these abound. Let’s just
admit it, animals are born with superior innate qualities. And I mean superior by our own standards. Humans have to
be taught everything. We don’t keep in touch, like the herding Briards. We can’t just swim like D’art. We are
hopeless unless we are taught. In a way, we are inferior because we are so advanced; we have come so
far that our instinct is dead. We are not superior beings. We are teachers.

There is a great deal to be said for having come this far, of course. In *Zen and the Art
of Motorcycle Maintenance*, Robert Pirsig, with whom I often agree, writes that man's movement “from agony to bare existence to
modern life can soberly be described as upward progress...” In some ways, he is right, but we have a helluva
long way to go, and backwards. We may never catch up to the animals. We were probably even with them
once, but as we “progressed,” the animals, with their instinctive simplicity and untaught abilities, stayed right where they were and
left us in the dust.

Pirsig means by the term “progress” the wiping out of diseases, the self-protection, and increased standard of living that humans
have learned to accomplish. That is progress, and he stops there, I suspect out of boredom with the topic. But
in haste, he ignores the real issue that I see, and that is that while we have vastly progressed, we
have improved our conditions and not ourselves. I’m not saying we're evil or wicked either. We simply shouldn't confuse the
two forms of improvement. We have improved ourselves very little, I hate to say. We have created capitalism and flickerball
and an entire existence founded on the basis of competition. The result is that our external conditions are improving, but
our internal self is seething with the desire to do better than other humans, as an end in itself. We
have created competition in much the same way that we created nuclear arms. We didn’t really know what would happen
long-term, but we went for it.

At this point in my babbling, I think of Renoir or Monet or whomever you prefer. Most of them spent
a great deal of time challenging the Salon in Paris with their blurs and trying to survive without money. They,
too, didn’t know what would happen long-term, and they went for it. They created beauty. We know humans can improve
themselves. It's just that few do, and when they do, they are called genius by the rest of us, who
are out there competing.

This all reminds me of an Amnesty International film about how a normal, cheerful family man became an expert at
conducting tortures in the Greek Army. It was very upsetting to see the human potential for cruelty, and as I
said to my good friend, David Stout, “They can just turn humans into animals.” Even for Dave, the answer was
brilliant: “Animals don’t torture each other.” I'll never forget that. Another thing humans are taught—to keep in touch, to swim,
and to torture. Think. Renoir...

For me, the final irony is what humans do to animals as signs of their alleged superiority. I dare you
to find out how animals are treated so that veal and lamb can be served to you. With parsley. I’m
not scolding. I'm searching. So we've evolved.and we could be one up. We are supposed to be social beings. But
our instincts toward unity, toward cooperation, toward love and keeping in touch are disappearing. The animals are one up. They
have their instinct. I would love to relate what Lewis Thomas had to say about all this, but I lost
my copy of Medusa and the Snail. Interesting, I have watched squirrels bury food in my wintery-white New York backyard
for years. Come spring, they remember where they put everything. Rudy is a senior Center major from Scarsdale, NY.

South Africa: U.S. disinvestment irresponsible
Bruce Sarkisian

Since early this year, demonstrating against South Africa’s apartheid policies has been the thing to do on college campuses all
across America. Students are protesting so that their schools and American corporations will withdraw their investments in South Africa. They
believe that if America pulls its money out, the government will be weakened and therefore forced to reform its apartheid
policies. This, however, is faulty logic.

The American companies in South Africa are the only ones that really practice fair employment policies. Companies run by Afrikaners
still exclude blacks from management positions for the most part. If American investments were pulled out of South Africa, the
Blacks would lose virtually all their opportunities to obtain high-level positions. The president of South Africa, P.W. Botha, has repeatedly
stated that his government will not be forced to reform because of raging black mobs. American divestment would encourage the
blacks even more to revolt, and as they do so their protests become more and more violent. We have seen
this in recent weeks when, as more countries announce economic sanctions against South Africa, black funeral demonstrations have become increasingly
violent and destructive and more and more blacks have been killed by state police. I believe that President Botha would
sooner declare martial law than reform his policies because of black mobs.

There is absolutely no question that apartheid in South Africa must be abolished. In the United States, these policies would
never have been instituted, and if they had, they would have been eliminated many years ago because we are a
conscientious and caring nation. However, the situation in South Africa is much different. The Afrikaners have been in South Africa
since the seventeenth century. They do not have another homeland to go to and they feel that if the blacks
are given majority rule they will be driven out of the country. By resisting reform, the whites are just protecting
themselves. Reform will come in South Africa, but it may be relatively slow in coming. American divestment would only worsen
the already turbulent situation and would be totally irresponsible.

Sarkisian is a freshman from Bronxville, NY.

America still captive
Tim Brown

To America, from Lebanon, Benjamin Weir returns, inspiring hereby many to opine — to offer suggestions as to what ought
to be done to save the six Americans still held captive. Here are four persuasions I have found common:

(1) The U.S. should encourage, by diplomatic means (of course), Kuwait to release the seventeen convicted terrorists, for whom the
Shiites will exchange the six remaining hostages. In this space, diplomacy means the art of letting Kuwait have it, or
should I say see it, on the order the U.S. does. But you're right — it’s true. Bowing to the
demand of these terrorists (with some of the same terrorists that murdered 241 U.S. Marines in October 1983) serves to
reward and encourage similar actions in the future, period.

(2) Retaliate with immediate force, even at the sake of being careless: this reminding me of one similar belief held
by Secretary of State George P. Schultz. He speaks in New York, as if he had had one too many
at a speakeasy, “The United States must retaliate against terrorists — even if we are not absolutely certain who they
are and even if innocent people are killed in the process.” Oh God, what would I not give to see
him buttressing to no avail and hectically patching the argument in a 900 Room filled with Davidson students.

(3) The U.S. can succeed in freeing the remaining six, as it succeeded in the TWA crisis. Au contraire. The
TWA terrorists sought the release of 766 prisoners — most of them Shiites, who were detained in southern Lebanon at
Ansar prison then moved to the Israeli prison Atlit, who (this point is important) were never charged with any crimes.
Israel had been planning to release them anyhow. Whereas, the terrorists we are dealing with now want back 17 convicted
terrorists, imprisoned for their December 1983 bombing of Kuwaiti government buildings, along with, oh, a few other small lean-tos. The
U.S. and French embassies specifically. The Fourth Geneva Convention, article 49 explicitly, allowed the Israeli Army to imprison these people,
to then transfer them to Israel. It reads exactly — “The occupying power may undertake total or partial evacuation of
a given area if the security of the population or imperative military reasons so demand. Such evacuations may not involve
the displacement of protected persons outside the bounds of the occupied territory except where for material reason it is impossible
to avoid such displacement.” The Israeli Army dismantled its prison camp at Ansar, in withdrawing from southern Lebanon.

(4) We ought to leave the Middle East altogether. John Barlton Martin imports, in contradiction, one reason for continuing our
presence. Oil. We need it, as does Japan and Western Europe. Survival of Israel, a commitment which ranks near the
top of our national, vital interests. The protection of our own. Our first commitment, of course, is to the defense
of our territory and to the protection of U.S. lives and property abroad. The strategical importance of the Middle East.
“Only a few places are as important: the Panama Canal, the Strait of Gibraltar, the Suez, the Strait of Malacca.”
I thank Dr. Proctor for affording me his time and use of his newspaper clippings. This is not to say
he agrees with my point.

Brown is a sophomore from Mint Hill, N.C. and is opinions editor of The Davidsonian.
