Friday, October 18, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Observing rules of the road makes bicycling safer
Ray Thrower

Over the past few weeks, The Davidson College Police Department has seen an increase in the number of bicycles being stolen from the campus. Not one of the bicycles stolen had a locking device in use. The Davidson College Police Department is especially concerned about the outer perimeter housing. It only takes a few seconds for someone to walk up and ride off with your bicycle. This year we have a record number of bicycles registered on campus. In order to reduce the chances of your bicycle being stolen, we suggest that you follow these precautions:

Always lock your bicycle. Use a lock with a 7/16” case-hardened shackle and a 3/8” thick alloy chain. Permanently engrave your driver’s license number on the frame of your bicycle. You can obtain an engraver at the Campus Police Department Office and the officer on duty will show you how to use the engraver and where to put your driver’s license number on the frame of the bicycle. Make sure that your bicycle is registered with the Davidson College Police Department. When you register your bicycle, make sure that you record your serial number and then place it in a safe place. Check your bicycle frequently to make sure that it is where you last put it. Do not leave your bicycle in remote areas at night. Report any suspicious persons or activity to the campus police department at 892-5131. If your bicycle is stolen, report it immediately. The longer you wait to report your bicycle stolen, the less chance there is that it will be recovered.

Look for the following card. If you should receive one, remember that next time there might not be anything to put it on.

GO PLEASE secure your property
PUBLIC SAFETY: 892-5131

Bicycle safety is the second major concern of the campus police department. Bicycle riding was once considered a healthy form of recreation. Now it is also an important means of transportation. Because bicycles are considered vehicles in North Carolina, bicycle riders must obey the same traffic laws as motor vehicle drivers do. Like drivers, they must ride on the right side of the road, stopping at all stop signs and red lights, and they must also give hand signals. Bicycles are legally entitled to use most roads in North Carolina as long as they obey the same rules of the road as a motor vehicle. Davidson Police Chief Jack Warlick stated, “Bicyclists are in violation of Davidson town ordinances when they ride their bicycles on the sidewalks on the building side of the downtown area.” Violators are subject to a fine. The following is a list of the ten basic bicycle rules of the road:

No. 1. Obey

Holiday selects Cornelius
By ANDREA DIEDRICH

A Holiday Inn will be built at the Cornelius exit off I-77 next year. According to Bob Currie, Davidson’s Business Manager, the College is excited about the prospect of having hotel accommodations closer to Davidson. At the same time, he expressed disappointment that the College was unable to persuade the developers to lease the five-acre site the College owns at the northwest quadrant of the intersection of Griffith Street and I-77. Currie feels they chose the Cornelius exit rather than the Davidson exit because North Carolina Highway 73 crosses I-77 at Cornelius whereas Griffith Street ends at Lake Norman. He hopes that once one hotel is built in Cornelius, others will follow and then the College’s land will become even more desirable for leasing.

According to a recent article in the Charlotte Observer, the Holiday Inn will be built by Norman Associates, DMC Properties, and CLT Development Corporation. Currie said they hope to complete planning by December 1985 and complete construction by August 1986. The hotel will be built on the northeast quadrant of the intersection near Quincy’s Restaurant. According to the Observer, the hotel will cost approximately $4.5 million. It will have 120 rooms, a restaurant, lounge, and meeting rooms.

Urban Growth
The decision to build a Holiday Inn at the Cornelius exit reflects not only the needs of Davidson College, but also the steady growth and urbanization of North Mecklenburg County. This growth was the subject of the Open Luncheon held last Wednesday in the 900 Room. Velva Woolen, Charlotte City Council Member, Dave Howard, planning manager for Charlotte, and Al Stewart, Chairman of the Geography Department at UNCC addressed the question, “Will Charlotte devour Davidson and when...?”

According to Stewart, a steady growth in the number of jobs and a growth in the economy are causing an increase in the urbanization of Charlotte and Mecklenburg County. He claimed that Charlotte is becoming a...

“Knowledge is of two kinds. We know a subject ourselves, or we know where we can find information upon it.” Boswell, Life of Johnson (1773)Traffic laws. Know your local and state traffic laws and obey them. Obey all signs, signals, and markings.

No. 2. Stay to the right. Keep to the right of the road. Do not weave in and out of traffic.

No. 3. Ride single file. Always ride single file with plenty of space between bikes.

No. 4. Walk it across. At busy intersections, get off your bike and walk it across. Never dart across traffic.

No. 5. Use your light at night. Don’t ride at night without a white light on the front and a red reflector or lamp on the rear of your wheel.

No. 6. Use a carrier. Do not try to carry books or other items in your arms when trying to ride your bike. Use a basket or carrier.

No. 7. One to a bike. Carrying someone as a passenger can make your handling and control of the bike very difficult.

No. 8. Don’t be a showoff. Fancy bike riding could prove fatal.

No. 9. Use hand signals. Use hand signals to indicate turning or stopping. The more you can let the person in front of you or behind you know of your intentions, the safer it will be for you. Remember that you have no protection on a bike if you have an accident.

No. 10. Drive a safe bike. Make sure that your bike is in good mechanical condition each time you ride it.

Many accidents happen because drivers do not see cyclists soon enough. Most fatal accidents occur on open country roads. Obey the rules; remember common sense counts on bicycles just as it does anywhere else.

Site for new Inn coming a regional center in the south rather than just a center for the Carolinas. Stewart said North Mecklenburg will grow faster than the rest of the county and predicted radical increases in the population density over the next twenty years. According to statistics, the total number of households in North Mecklenburg will increase from approximately 5,000 in 1980 to 13,000 in 2005. These figures indicate that the need for housing will increase dramatically as well. Stewart predicted that most of the development in the Davidson-Cornelius area will occur west of I-77 on Lake Norman. “It seems to me Davidson will sit on the edge of this development and not be the center of it,” he said. “The lake shore will be the most developed and Davidson will be bypassed rather than overwhelmed by future development.” Howard predicted Mecklenburg will be a completely urbanized county some time in the more distant future.

Copying policy changed
By KEITH FINCH

The photo-duplication center in the basement of Chambers has instituted a new policy prohibiting the general public from using the machines. Instead, individuals and organizations must submit work orders along with the items they wish duplicated. The new system was adopted because of faculty complaints about long waiting lines at copiers and the inordinate amount of mechanical difficulty which the service experienced, according to Director of Personnel and Administrative Services Robert Stephenson. Central Services secretary Jane Biggerstaff said most students using the copiers in the past did not know how to operate the machines and often made mistakes resulting in significant down-time. She said the copy room staff can duplicate material faster than inexperienced students, therefore copying is more efficient. She added that because less time is wasted, students and faculty members can expect to get their work done fairly soon — usually by a little later the same day.

Stephenson explained that more than half a million copies were made on the copy room’s two machines during the first three and a half weeks of classes, and that “if we had not been closed, there would have been no way that volume could have been accommodated.” The new policy will also help the college save money. Biggerstaff stated that last year the copy room lost between $5,000 and $10,000 as a result of wasted paper and the failure of people to properly report their copying so that they could be billed. Collection of funds has been simplified under the new system; all duplication must carry a form with the name of the organization or individual to be billed.

The new policy will very probably continue in the future. With regard to the length of any trial period, Stephenson said that “we didn’t set any time limit.” He added that although the final decision to implement the policy was ultimately his, he discussed the question with many other people before finally arriving at a conclusion. Since the beginning of the fall term, anything to be duplicated has been required to be accompanied by a form specifying the number of copies required, the name of the organization or person paying for the duplication, and other special information regarding such things as color, reduction, or enlargement. Students and faculty may no longer operate the machines themselves, but must submit their material to the duplication room staff for copying.