Friday, February 1, 1985 / The Davidsonian

OPINION

Bombing Of Abortion Clinics Is Not Senseless

Mike Stephens

Senseless violence makes me sick. The mentality that tells one or two individuals that they have the right to decide to destroy the property and safety of others is completely beyond me. Vandalism of any sort has always caused me to see the darker side of human nature, but I find myself in a quandary when I realize that I actually sympathize with the men who recently destroyed three locations offering “safe, effective, medically supervised pregnancy terminations.”

After midnight on Christmas Eve, Matthew Goldsby and Jimmy Simmons, both of Pensacola, Florida, set off three black powder bombs in abortion clinics in the Pensacola area. Several days later, both were arrested and are now awaiting trial. All three offices were unoccupied, but property damage was severe. These bombings were similar, though probably unrelated, to several other abortion clinic bombings which have happened in the last several years. Both of the men professed Christianity, opposing abortion for religious reasons. Says Barbara Radford of the National Abortion Federation, “Why this isn’t considered terrorism, I don’t know.” Says Dr. William Permenter, who operated one of the clinics, “I don’t like them... I don’t think that anyone who’s ever done one can say they like doing abortions... but you know there is a need for them.” Dr. Bo Bagenholm states, “I’m not going to quit just because of some fanatic. What kind of man would I be if I gave in to a little pressure?” Says Goldsby’s mother, “I don’t approve of the bombings, but I’m glad the killing has stopped.”

I will begin by revealing my position on the matter. I do not condone actions such as these under any circumstances. I do not think that what they did was right. I cannot see myself ever supporting this sort of violence. Nonetheless, I do sympathize with them. What they did was not, as one magazine article suggested, a “terrorist activity.” It was not done out of “religious fanaticism.” It was not done as a huge publicity stunt, hoping to raise public awareness on a subject of great importance. It was done as a cry for help; a cry from the 1.5 million children killed yearly in the sterile world of the abortion clinic.

Placing ten pounds of black powder in a pipe and igniting it within a doctor’s office seems to me a rather desperate move, especially from a pair of quiet “religious types.” Whatever moved these men to do this must have been very important to them, for they are probably going to spend a great deal of time (possibly 80 years) in prison for their actions. I suspect that they were very frustrated. Given their points-of-view, who wouldn’t be? These men feel that aborting a child is taking the life of a living human being—a human being that has no capacity to defend itself. To the men who destroyed the “pregnancy termination” clinics, there is no difference between aborting a fetus and taking a revolver into a neo-natal ward and shooting an infant. The only division between the two is that at present it is legal to go to one of these clinics and secure an abortion, but shooting infants is considered homicide. I can certainly see why someone would try to destroy a facility where he felt widespread, legal murder of infants was taking place. To Goldsby and Simmons, the men who bombed the clinics, there was no difference.

I will not attempt to present the legal history of abortion within this essay. There is enough easily accessible material available for anyone who truly cares to know, that I would probably only give an imperfect repetition of what you already know. The Supreme Court recognizes only “viable” human beings who have the “capability of meaningful life” as having the legal right to the protection of the state. This is about as vague a statement as can be made concerning the issue of abortion. Specifically, a problem arises when one begins to define what a “viable” human being with the “capability of meaningful life” is. I personally would be curious just to hear their definition of “meaningful life.” At any rate, sometime in the future this question must be answered, for abortion is much too volatile an issue to be allowed to remain fallow for much longer. What that decision will be is yet unknown.

Below are my opinions on the subject:

Abortions have always existed. If we make them illegal, then they will continue to exist and will become more dangerous to the persons receiving them. If they are legal, then they are safer for the women receiving them. Abortions have always been wrong. They have always involved the voluntary killing of an unprotected infant. To use this kind of rationale to legalize abortion is much the same as saying murder has always existed. If we make it illegal, then murder will continue to exist and it will become more dangerous to the persons involved with it. If murder was legal, fewer innocent people would be killed by stray gunfire. Fewer police officers would be killed trying to apprehend these criminals. This, of course, is absurd.

We do not know precisely when life begins, so to say that an abortion is killing a human being is simply wild conjecture. This is also absurd, for if we don’t know when life begins, how can we justify practicing abortions until we find out? Suppose we discover that scientifically all “viable life” does begin at conception. Does that absolve us from all the abortions, which would then be defined as the killing of a being “capable of a meaningful life,” committed before that time? Of course not. If we don’t know, then we should at least stop abortions until we do know. Otherwise, each abortion is a shot fired into a dark room that may or may not contain a living person.

The “prospect of the future happiness” of the mother is more important than that of the developing child. “All men are created equal, and are endowed by their creator with certain inalienable rights, among these rights are Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness.” “We the people of the United States...secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity.” If the fetus is a “viable human being” then it has as much right to the “prospect of future happiness” as does the mother. We must give the fetus the benefit of the present doubt until we determine whether or not it is alive. The rest of my reasons specifically come from my religious beliefs. If a human being has a soul, which I believe it does, then I do not wish to be the one designating exactly when that soul and the developing child are united. The above reasons, however, are stimulated out of a sense of fairness for the child whose life is in the balance. We cannot gamble when the stakes are this high. It makes no sense to allow abortions to continue while there is some doubt as to exactly what a fetus is. If it were up to me, there would be no abortions... or murders, or rapes, or bombings of medical clinics. These things, however, will continue as long as human beings continue to be thoughtless, self-centered, and perverse. No matter what legal action is taken, I don’t believe we will ever be able to legislate popular morality. I do not believe that the actions of government must or necessarily should be dictated by religious concerns. I do think, however, that a society whose only morality comes from the limits set by law upon its actions is pretty bankrupt. Just because we can do something doesn’t mean it is right. Which brings me back to the bombings and my quandary. I cannot condone senseless violence. But the violence, in this case, wasn’t senseless. The bombings were carefully planned as not to injure anyone — only to destroy the clinics where abortions were being offered. The justification? Each abortion stopped by closing the clinic is a “viable human life” saved from a senseless death. If by destroying three buildings, one abortion was prevented, then all the trouble — even 80 years in prison — is worthwhile. My trouble is this: every year 1.5 million abortions are executed — in my opinion representing 1.5 million lives needlessly snuffed out; about a month ago, two men sought to put an end to at least some of the killing by blowing up three “pregnancy termination centers.” The former is legal, the latter not... but which is the lesser of the two evils? You decide. Stephens is a sophomore from Roswell, Ga., and opinions editor of The Davidsonian.

SPE’s Reasons For Returning ‘Drivel’ David Sisk

The most vociferous argument I’ve heard the SPEs advance to support their move back to Patterson Court tends to revolve around two points. First, they claim that SPE should be allowed to operate as a social house in order to “give Davidson a new alternative”; this, they claim, is the “wave of the future,” if you will. Secondly, the SPEs dismiss all opposition to their attempted return as self-interested parties protecting a “special interest.” By inference, the SPEs claim that Patterson Court is not enough of an alternative to the Commons, and that their fraternity is being unfairly treated. First of all, there is no “special interest” on Patterson Court except the viability of the Court as a whole. The PCC voted overwhelmingly to reject SPE’s return unless it serves meals, and in so doing PCC members are merely representing the feelings of the majority of their constituents on the Court. Every house voted on the SPE question, and every house rejected the social proposal by a large margin. The PCC acted as its constituents demanded, unlike the seemingly spineless CCRL. If the attitude of the entire Court is expressed in such overwhelming numbers, I would hesitate to call it a “special interest” — “the will of the majority” seems more appropriate a description. As to whether the SPE proposal represents the destiny of Patterson Court, let’s face some harsh realities. The SPEs want to move back on campus because they are losing their house on Main Street. It’s that simple. There is no way the Town Council will allow SPE to purchase another house in Davidson; unless the fraternity wants to have parties and conduct business in members’ dorm rooms, they have to get hold of one of the empty houses on the Court. For SPE, it isn’t a question of choosing an option, but of choosing the option open to them. Simply because the SPEs need to move or die does not seem to me to be sufficient grounds to justify their desire as “a new alternative for Davidson.” It is patently obvious that the biggest consideration the SPEs have is for their own survival as an organization and not as the shining example for Davidson's future. I cannot blame the SPEs for wanting to survive and continue as a viable social organization, but I can and do blame them for hiding their real motives under a smokescreen of empty, pompous rhetoric. The group that stands to gain from SPE’s existence as a social house is SPE itself, and not the rest of Patterson Court. I think it's about time that we stopped hearing all this hot air about “special interests” and “Davidson's destiny.” Since when do the actions of one fraternity reflect the inevitable future of an entire college's social system? It is absurd for SPE to make such claims, and even more ludicrous for anyone to swallow them. Listen up, SPE. Your claims are no more special or altruistic than a simple desire to survive. Call your struggle a struggle and not a popular, grassroots move to a brighter future. Your fraternity is the only group that will gain anything from a return to the Court as a social house, and you know it. Quit babbling about “special interests” and “new alternatives.” If you want a sympathetic ear for such shallow drivel, I suggest you talk to each other. I am sick and tired of your whining. Sink or swim like the rest of the eating houses and fraternities on Patterson Court, but for goodness’ sake stop trying to wrap your struggle in the shining mantle of the persecuted prophets. Such a garment does not even begin to fit. Sisk is a senior English major who eats at Emanon.