Wednesday, April 10, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN 3

Chaplain Opposes Reagan’s Central America Policy

By DAVID VAN PELT

Davidson Chaplain Charlie Summers saw the effects of war on a Third-World nation last month as part of a 21-member
Christian peace delegation visiting Nicaragua. Summers saw in this embattled Central American nation reasons to oppose the Reagan Administration’s current
policy of aid to the contras seeking to overthrow the leftist Sandinista regime. “We have reason to talk with this
country. We should talk with them, not fight with them.”

After a brief training and Bible study session in Miami, members of the Witness for Peace delegation flew to Nicaragua
on March 12 and spent ten days in Nicaragua. According to Summers, Witness for Peace is an organization formed two
years ago to encourage North American Christians to visit Nicaragua and report back to their countrymen about the current political
situation, particularly as it relates to the church. Summers said the group was made up of clergymen, businessmen, retired people,
and several students, eleven of whom were from North Carolina.

The group divided its visit to Nicaragua between Managua, the capital, and rural mountain communities in northern Nicaragua, according to
Summers. One site the group visited was the Logartillo communal farm near the village of Achuapa, which contra forces raided
last December, killing six people. Summers said the attack on Logartillo, which he called “hardly a military target,” typifies the
military tactics of the contras. The insurgents, he said, rarely attack military installations. Instead, they concentrate on mountain villages and
other isolated civilian targets. This makes the insurgents appear to Summers “hardly to be freedom-fighters liberating the poor. It’s a
kind of a guerilla war of attrition,” he said.

Group members also heard from villagers about the popular contra method of kidnapping peasants and marching them to Honduras, Summers
said. After visiting Logartillo and meeting with a variety of church representatives and laborers in Achuapa, the delegation spent two
days at another farm cooperative called Los Hornos. According to Summers, “It has not yet been attacked, but they’re expecting
it to be next on the list.” Some delegation members balked at the idea of helping community members build a
trench for protection in case of attack, Summers said, because they did not believe that their purpose was to help
construct military facilities. Summers said an elderly woman changed their minds with a plea for her grandchildren who would have
no other place to hide if the Contras attack.

In Managua, the delegation held interviews with church leaders, businessmen, and journalists, in order to collect opinions opposing and favoring
the Sandinista regime. Summers said the religious freedom he witnessed in Nicaragua contradicts frequent reports of religious persecution. “Some people
claim that there is persecution of the church,” he said. “We found no persecution of the church.” Summers said the
religious persecution prevalent in Cuba has not come to pass in Nicaragua. The Sandinistas “actively encourage Christians to take part
in government at all levels, directly contrary to Fidel Castro.”

Summers said the Sandinista government is less repressive and more open to criticism than other Central American countries. Nicaragua’s opposition
paper, La Prensa, is the only opposition paper in Central America, he said. “The people generally support the government, and
those who are not as free to speak out.” The Sandinista government censors coverage of war and shortages and suffered
poor crop harvests last year; Summers feels that the war has caused most of Nicaragua’s problems. It’s “a poor country
and they’re depleting their scarce resources by having to fight a war.” He said U.S. aid to the rebels has
caused the Sandinistas by necessity to pursue closer ties with the USSR and other Eastern bloc countries.

The Sandinistas have effected many benefits in Nicaraguan life, Summers said. They have made health care available to all people
and have installed doctors in many remote villages for the first time. The infant mortality rate, he said, has fallen
from 25 percent before the overthrow of Nicaraguan dictator Somoza in 1979 to 2 percent now. The Sandinistas have doubled
the number of school facilities and clergy because the Church was no longer by itself powerful enough to mold opinions
in a nation...

The ideas that Sigmund Freud introduced in the 19th century have influenced 20th-century attitudes. Freud compared “human sexuality [to] a
boiler room,” arguing we “must allow the sexual energy to come out.” Freudianism, according to Wolfe, has turned the Bible
belt state of North Carolina into one of the national leaders “in pornography outlets per capita.” He added, “The typical
Mountain Dew crossroads of the Bible belt in addition to Arby’s fast food drive-through... and hot wax car wash... now
has the village brothel, a house of prostitution.” He said pornographic theatres and pornography in general are now “a customary
part of America.” They represent “an...Astonishing change, especially in a religious country. And it’s due to the ideas of Freud.”
Wolfe said Americans are now reevaluating their attitudes and ideas. He said we're “at the end of the line for
these trends I've talked about. They've begun to run out of momentum.” He said one of the greatest changes we’ve
experienced in the last decade is “the wholesale reevaluation of Marxism.” He added there is no “intellectual rationale” to excuse
the existence of Marxist concentration camps in the USSR about which we are learning from Russian writers. Hence, new theories
of power have emerged, one of which suggests “the moral equivalency of the East and West. Morally the USA and
USSR are on equal levels. You choose your evils,” he explains.

Wolfe said, “We're beginning to see we're playing with fire in the arts.” For example, some contemporary musicals feature 1950
costumes and music. He added artists “hold reaching out to a popular audience.” He said, as the clerisy meets the
educated audiences halfway, “difficult” art must emerge. “There must at least be a harlequin in a black and white costume
impersonating a chicken or something.” In addition, the modernism that produced large 20th-century buildings with no main front door is
giving way to new architecture and central front doors.

New computer technology influences our attitudes and thoughts towards sex, Wolfe said. “Like the energy in a computer, the energy
of sex is constant. The difference is in the yes/no gates of the system...” whereby the human dictates when he
uses the stored energy. “This idea is completely foreign to Freudianism.” Wolfe emphasized, “There must be some kind of reevaluation.
A new set of values are to be created.” He added, “It is impossible to go back to old values
in their old forms.”

“We must find new moral approximations,” he said. “Cities are drawing up laws against pornography because it violates the civil
rights of the people pictured.” He added, “It’s impossible to use the notion that pornography is evil” because for the
intellectuals that’s an unacceptable argument. After the lecture, Wolfe said in the twenty-first century we can expect to see more
ornate and decorative work on such items as computers and spacesuits. He added, “The serious arts [the opera] will be
much more popular... difficult but popular.” As pornography will decline, Wolfe said, Americans “will want to feel culturally superior as
well as entertained.”

Summers tripled the number of teachers. The Sandinistas have also made education free through college, he said. Summers said the
poor primarily benefit from the Sandinistas' reform. “If you are upper middle class or rich, you are not affected by
the program, and tend not to like the Sandinistas.” Summers sharply criticized Reagan’s new peace initiative, in which he proposes
to suspend funding to the Contras for the months pending Sandinista concessions. “It’s a knuckleball. It's an attempt to confuse
people so that he gets what he wants, which is to get fourteen million dollars to give to the Contras
to do whatever they want with it.” Instead of the current policy, Summers said the United States should demand guarantees
on the use of military power in exchange for international economic aid.

Hobart Park To Arrive Soon
By STEVE MANK

Students anxiously awaiting the arrival of Hobart Park may have to wait no longer—hopefully. The campus literary magazine, which has
yet to release an edition this year, is at the printers’ where it has been for the past ten weeks.
“We took it to the printers the ninth or tenth week last term, they said we'd have it back in
three weeks,” Martha Wilson, editor of Hobart Park, said. According to Wilson, the month-long delay has been attributed by the
printers to various equipment failures. The printers claim the publication will be ready by this Friday and are paying delivery
charges themselves. But the literary magazine is still in search of a new firm. “We're changing printers because of the
problems we've been having with this one,” assistant editor Allison McGill explained.

The editors are more optimistic about their issue of the magazine. The submission deadline was April 2 and the magazine
should be published before the end of this term. “We hope to have the next one out by the ninth
week,” McGill said. The Miscellany, the Davidson literary journal, is also having publishing problems. That magazine, which has suffered slow-release
difficulties in the past, is being held up in production.

Free information from the Federal Government is available to you at more than 1,380 Depository Libraries across the country. Congress
established the Depository Library Program in 1814 to provide free access to Government information. To find the Federal Depository in
your area, contact your local library or write to the Federal Depository Library Program, Office of the Public Printer, Washington,
DC 20401.
