Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

November 11, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN:

Let’s give:

David Host

The budget crisis, with its accompanying prohibitive debt, befuddles both the Democratic House and the Republican Senate. Most members of Congress acknowledge that the deficit is out of control, but no one can agree upon a solution. The Democrats try to paint themselves as fiscally responsible, pressing for economically destructive tax hikes. They refuse to consider a disentanglement of the web of needless government programs as a solution, however. The time has come for a revolutionary reassessment of the “big government” that the New Deal established. Congress has met the Reagan Administration with determined resistance to any such reassessment, however.

James C. Miller, the Reagan appointee to head the Office of Management and Budget, has suggested one feasible proposal to reverse government expansionism. He suggests that the federal government relinquish its monopoly on the postal service. Exclusive government control over the postal system serves as an example of the needless meddling and hypocrisy of liberal government. The government cannot exempt an effective monopoly from antitrust laws, but sees its own trust as beyond question. A return of the postal system to private enterprise would carry benefits to both the government and the consumer. It would certainly be preferable to the current situation.

The time has come for a revolutionary reassessment of the “Big Government” that the New Deal established.

In 1978, a first-class stamp cost 13 cents. Today, it costs 22 cents. Further rises will become reality, as the government cannot afford to add to its deficit. Free competition would lead to lower costs to the consumer, and a rise in quality of service. The efficiency of the freely competing overnight delivery services testifies to this fact.

The same principle applies to public education. The government continues to grope for a solution to the rising costs and falling quality of publicly administered education. Its answer thus far has been the creation of an ineffective department and more expenditures. An effective solution would be the phasing out of the public education system, allowing private industry to develop schools of higher quality. Instead of wasting funds upon the administration of education, the government could give funds directly to families to cover the costs of private education. Certainly, the government would regulate these institutions to ensure the admittance of any child. Compulsory education laws would remain intact. A family could freely choose the right school for its children, however. The choice would be between schools of better quality, with less costs.

Both of these proposals would begin a healthy trend back towards a reliance upon the private sector. The principles behind the successful Reagan tax cut program of 1981 would apply. Private money would flow into an already expanding economy, instead of into governmental enigmas. The federal government could use its tax money elsewhere, especially in deficit reduction programs. In reducing its size, government could keep critical aspects of both social and defense spending. Governmental reduction is a palatable alternative to irresponsibility. It deserves at least a chance.

For further reference on the postal service and education arguments, see Milton Friedman's Capitalism and Freedom, from which these arguments were taken.

Host is a sophomore from Lexington, KY.

You’ve seen the rest, now try the best

No homecoming date to wake up to Sunday morning?

Don’t worry.

Someone will be by your room soon to offer you this faithful companion.