Thursday, December 12, 1985

THE DAVIDSONIAN: Beyond Davidson

Great Britain signs agreement, McFarlane resigns

Headlining the news for the week of December 2-9:

Internationally—

European news—
Great Britain signed an agreement with the U.S. to join in the research and development of the Strategic Defense Initiative;
West Germany is reportedly considering signing a similar agreement with the U.S. next year. Citing claims of mismanagement, high expense,
and an anti-West bias, Britain announced that it will pull out of UNESCO; the U.S. withdrew last year.

—— a weekly news summary JANE AURELL

In France, President Mitterrand welcomed Polish leader Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski to Paris. Meanwhile, in one of the decade’s biggest robberies,
$9.4 million was stolen from Brinks, Inc. headquarters in northwest Paris. NATO offices in France and in Belgium fell victim
to terrorist bomb attacks. In Italy, on a three-month visa from the U.S.S.R. for medical treatment, Yelena Bonner, the wife
of Soviet dissident Andrei Sakharov, had a private audience with Pope John Paul II; she flew to the U.S. on
Saturday where she was reunited with her mother, daughter, and grandchildren. Culminating in the reaffirmation of the recommendations made by
the 1962-65 Second Vatican Council, the two-week synod of Catholic bishops called by Pope John Paul II ended Saturday.

South African news—
The government announced that it will pass new laws allowing all blacks to own and occupy land in urban areas.
Meanwhile, in her most audacious challenge to the government yet, Winnie Mandela defied her court-imposed silence and spoke at a
mass funeral for twelve persons slain in an anti-government protest on Nov. 21. On Saturday, in a statement called the
Harare Declaration, the World Council of Churches called for the international community to apply sanctions to pressure for the end
of the white minority rule in South Africa. A white South African soldier, said to be tormented by actions he
has taken against the blacks, is seeking asylum in the U.S.

Asian news—
In the Philippines, Corazon Aquino, the widow of assassinated leader Benigno Aquino, announced that she will run as an opposition
candidate to Marcos in the Feb. 7 Presidential election; the U.S. is urging Salvador Laurel, the other opposition candidate, to
join Aquino on a ticket opposing Marcos, but as of Monday the prospects of such a unity appeared unlikely. Meanwhile,
Gen. Fabian Ver was acquitted for the 1983 assassination of Benigno Aquino and was promptly reinstated by Marcos as head
of the country’s armed forces. Vietnam returned the remains of seven more Americans killed in the Vietnam War. According to
a former American advisor on biological warfare, the Japanese used American and other P.O.W.’s in germ warfare experimentation during WWII.

Central and South American news—
In Nicaragua, the contras shot down a Nicaraguan helicopter piloted by members of the Cuban military. Concerned with evidence of
increasing Cuban military activity in Nicaragua, Secretary of State Shultz said that the U.S. is considering furthering its involvement in
the region. Nicaragua and China established diplomatic relations. Earlier in the week, Secretary of State Shultz went to Colombia for
a meeting of the Organization of American States (OAS).

Other news—
With Cuba being the only dissenter and 39 nations abstaining, the U.N. General Assembly voted overwhelmingly to condemn all acts
of terrorism. In the U.S., Congress is considering unifying the Green Berets, the Army Delta Force, and other anti-terrorist special
forces under a single civilian command; the forces would be strategically positioned in regional bases so as to make them
more readily deployable in the event of a crisis.

Domestically—
Robert McFarlane resigned his post as National Security Advisor; McFarlane’s deputy, Vice Admiral John Poindexter, was named by President Reagan
to be his successor. Reversing his previously held stance, Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger agreed that changes should be made in
the national military structure; among the proposed changes is the strengthening of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Meanwhile, a Congressional
Budget Office report released on Wednesday stated that one-third of the nation’s Army reserve troops would be “unprepared or only
marginally ready” for the first month of a European war. Anne Henderson-Pollard, the wife of Jonathan Pollard (the American accused
of selling secrets to Israel), was arrested and accused of planning to sell secrets to China.

In election bids—
Joseph Kennedy, the son of the late Senator Robert Kennedy, will seek the Massachusetts congressional seat being vacated by House
Speaker Tip O'Neill. Kathleen Kennedy, Joseph Kennedy’s sister, may seek a congressional seat in Maryland. Fred Grandy, better known as
Gopher on the “Love Boat,” will run for Congress from Iowa’s sixth district. Jesse Jackson is considering forming a PAC
to carry out the “progressive thrust” of his Rainbow Coalition; this is seen by some to be an indication of
his intentions to run for president in 1988.

The space shuttle, carrying a seven-member crew including Mexico's first astronaut, completed a successful mission in which it deployed three
satellites, made two space walks, and experimented with various space construction techniques. The New England Journal of Medicine announced a
new breakthrough in cancer research. The new cancer treatment is called adoptive immunotherapy and turns ordinary white blood cells into
“killer cells” that attack malignant tumors; however, the potential for negative side-effects has not been fully determined.

Thought for the week—
“...to see what is right and not to do it is cowardice.” —Confucius

Senior class considers gift
By LAURA BATTEN

For the fourth consecutive year, a senior class will vote among several proposals for the Senior Gift. The purpose of
theGift is to obtain for the college something which is beneficial but not necessarily exigent, according to Senior Gift Committee
Chairman Jennifer Gotto. This fall, the Senior Gift Committee, vice-chaired by Vince Dennis, has been investigating gift possibilities in several
areas of the campus. It has also taken suggestions from the senior class. The committee, made up of about ten
seniors, has met every other week to consider potential gifts and has now narrowed the choices down to four.

One option is a summer scholarship for work, travel, and study abroad. The scholarship would be awarded by the Dean
Rusk Program in International Studies, which would provide merit-based grants to two or three students per year. A second alternative
is a lecture series, also handled by the Rusk Program. The series would ensure at least one speaker and presentation
every year. The type of speaker and presentation would be selected through the Rusk Program.

Another idea for the gift is the investment in two vans for student service. The vans would be checked out
through the Union desk by a student group or a student service. The vans would allow groups to drive to
Charlotte for such activities as athletic and cultural events and rides to the airport. The final alternative is the installment
of handicapped facilities (such as ramps) on campus to ease the movement of handicapped students. The hope would be that
the increased number of facilities would promote diversification of the student body and faculty by attracting more handicapped students and
professors, as well as disabled visitors.

After Christmas, Sharon Maguire and Robert McLean will be selecting brokers from the senior class. The collection of money will
be carried out through the eating houses and fraternities, as it is believed that this is the most efficient way
to contact the entire senior class. The brochures describing the gift will be written and the stationery designed. Anyone with
artistic ability and interest is welcome to help with the design. The actual campaigning begins early spring term. The vote
will be held Dec. 19 in Chambers.

---

Locks on New Dorms Cause Mixed Reactions
By HEIDI HOOKER

A Simplex, coded lock system was installed on the Peter Knox, Akers, and Mary Irwin Belk dormitories on November 8.
Installing some kind of locks on all dorms has been a major concern of both the housing office and security
this year. Housing Director Tom Jennings hopes to have locks on all dorms within two years, with women’s dorms receiving
priority. Jennings plans to change the codes for each dorm’s locks at the beginning of each term.

Jennings said he is pleased that “Davidson is now taking this direction in security, considering the enlarging community around Davidson
related to the growth and expansion of Charlotte.” He anticipated that the lock issue would be met with the resistance
of students wanting to preserve “the tradition of the unlocked campus under the Honor Code.” Officer Ray Thrower believes this
security measure is significant in the school’s recognition of the “crime threat imposed by outsiders, not the insiders, of the
campus.” He said, “Jennings is really sharp in his efforts and his concern for student welfare” and believes that initial
displeasure with the locks is “natural and just a matter of people getting used to them.”

Jennings said the major drawback of the new lock system is that rain or humid weather causes doors to swell,
which prevents them from locking. One door on Knox will not close and lock unless it is slammed. Jennings is
currently working on this problem. Last year, the housing office tested an electronic security system in Knox. However, it was
ineffective because students could deactivate it by pushing a button on the side of the door. With the new lock
system, the doors secure themselves every time they close and may only be opened by the code or a master
key supplied to police and maintenance.

Some students were positive about the new locks. Senior Doug Desjardins is “impressed at how surprisingly well the locks have
been accepted.” Resident Advisor Emily Bond said she has gotten no complaints. Sophomore Anna Erwin said that at the first
R.A. meeting with the dorm residents, the lock issue “did not go over well and created some fuss.” Some students
are very enthusiastic about the new dorm security. Sophomore Cathy Sloop said, “It is a good effort to keep strangers
out of the halls.” She said she feels much more secure at night. Sophomore Sandra Ivey said the system was
preventing “imports from invading the halls’ bathrooms and spreading their suitcases all over the place though they don't belong there.”

Though they felt there were many complaints in general about the locks, both students agreed that the locks are inconvenient
for guests or visitors. Sophomore Sally Robinson said another inconvenience is “that the first floor people have to let others
in all the time, which is a pain.” Some students question the effectiveness of the locks in improving security. Sophomore
Carter Adcock said if someone really wanted to get in they could since the combinations have been printed out and
spread by word of mouth. Sophomore Chuck Harris questions “how effective security can be when lock combinations are posted on
a list over bathroom mirrors in Knox so that they can be just ripped down and accessible to others if
just left around.” Sophomores Kelley Hardman and Walt Reynolds agreed the locks should not be turned on all day long
but just at night. Sophomore Elizabeth Keenan and Hardman both suggested that the locks be lighted in some way for
nighttime use.
