8 Friday, January 11, 1985 / The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Cats Rise To 2-0 In Conference After Latest Win

By ANDY BARRON

Hold on to your hats, basketball fans, it’s Southern Conference schedule time. You remember, long shots, and most importantly, the worst referees this country has to offer. Remember the predictions about Davidson finishing last? Wrong so far. Davidson may be 5-9 overall, but it is 2-0 in conference play. The Wildcats upped their record last night by beating East Tennessee 69-58. An explosive 10-0 start and solid play at the end won this game for Davidson. Five players in double figures, and a real team effort, add up to “win.”

Let’s not forget those refs. The officials’ refusal to call defensive fouls aided Davidson’s defense. East Tennessee didn’t score until 11:30 was left in the first half. But Davidson still had a chance to lose, though it didn’t. For the record, the Cats are in first place (as of now).

Unfortunately, the Christmas break was not very cheery. Davidson’s final Christmas break game was the annual engagement with Notre Dame. The Fighting Irish usually attract a big group of loyal alumni and an equally fervent mob of Notre Dame haters. This game was no exception. Over five thousand fans watched as Davidson brought the ball up the floor early in the second half trailing only 39-37. But the Cats turned the ball over and then watched their potential upset decline into a 79-62 loss. Sophomore Chris Heineman had 16 points to lead Davidson and freshman Derek Rucker added 12. Irish forward Ken Barlow had 23 points, which equaled Davidson’s six frontcourt players' combined output.

“We missed a lot of good shots right when we needed them,” Coach Bobby Hussey said. “We can’t win if we can’t make easy shots.”

The Notre Dame game was preceded by Davidson’s only win over the break. The Cats nipped Furman 68-67, despite being down by six at halftime. Rucker’s 16 points and junior Ken Niebuhr’s 12 paced Davidson. This was an important win because it was a combination conference and road win.

“We kept falling behind and catching up,” said Rucker. “I thought we played a good second half and made the shots we needed down the stretch.”

“The circumstances made this game tough,” said Hussey. “Traveling back from Portland gave us very little time to prepare. We didn’t play that well except for at the end, which was what counted.” But it was an important win nonetheless.

The big trip over break was to Portland, Oregon, to play in the Far West Classic. Unfortunately, the Wildcats lost all three games they played. The losses were by the frustrating margins of five, two, and one points. Oregon commenced Davidson’s woes by beating the Cats.

Rucker once again led the team in scoring with 16 while playing almost the entire game. “We didn’t shoot well, even though we got good shots,” commented Hussey. “The ball just wouldn’t go down.”

Pennsylvania provided the most frustrating of the tough losses by edging Davidson 81-80. The fact that Davidson missed several game-winning tip-ins right before the buzzer made the flight home that much longer. The bright spot was the combined play up front of Niebuhr, Born, and freshman Jeff Himes. Niebuhr had 20 points, Born 17, and Himes had the most productive game of his young career with 15 points and a team-high nine rebounds. If Davidson can combine such frontcourt play with its typical solid guard play, the rest of the season could be quite productive.

Davidson's no. 11 shoots against East Tenn. defenders

By STEVE BYERS

First, back by popular demand, it’s the second edition of From The Concession Stand’s semi-biannual Awards and Citations column. Let’s give credit where credit is due. Here goes:

Worst Call of 1984: Auburn Coach Pat Dye’s decision to go for a touchdown on fourth and goal at the Alabama one-yard line. A gimme field goal would have given Auburn an 18-17 lead and a Sugar Bowl berth had the Tigers held on. As it was, Bo Jackson went the wrong way on the play and Auburn wound up in the Liberty Bowl.

Worst Mascot: The Boomer Sooner Schooner, which cost Oklahoma 15 yards and three points in its Orange Bowl loss.

Best Sign at a College Basketball Game: “At least Ralph could read and write.” Duke students, naturally, hoisted this message for all to see during the first Duke-Virginia game, in reference to Olden Polynice’s academic troubles. Chris Washburn Beware!

Worst TV Innovation of Holiday Season: ABC wins this, hands down, for its decision to monitor Oklahoma State Coach Pat Jones’ heartbeat during the Gator Bowl. ABC should have...55—50. Oregon ran off eleven points at the beginning of the game and led the whole way. Junior Jim McConkey fueled the Wildcat comeback with team highs of 14 points and six rebounds. “We were a little impatient with our offense,” Hussey commented on the team’s poor start. “Our kids made one heckuva comeback and I’m proud of the way they played.”

Davidson fell to the University of Portland 51—49 in the next game. Once again the Cats were behind at halftime and were unable to make up the deficit. The Cats were hurt by sophomore Ace Tanner, Heineman, and junior Gerry Born getting in foul trouble and a poor first half of shooting (6-19) by the whole team.

Way back in the distant past, before Christmas, Davidson played two games that would make any schedule tough. The Cats played then third-ranked St. John’s close for one half, but eventually fell to the Redmen’s vast amount of talent, 77-51. Then came Duke, now ranked number two in all major polls and, just as importantly, Duke’s infamous home court advantage. The Blue Devils took a thirteen-point halftime lead and ended up winning 82-65.

“The St. John’s and Duke games showed us that if we execute well and get a supreme effort from everyone, we can play with anyone,” said Hussey. “Execution and shooting are the keys. The games in which we’ve shot poorly, our overall game has been poor. Every game will be a battle, with us as the underdog. We must play our best to win.”

Best “Prank”: N.C. State freshman Chris Washburn taking a friend’s stereo system after warning him that it might be stolen. That’s a real knee-slapper, Chris, but unfortunately the Raleigh D.A. doesn’t have your sense of humor.

Best Camera Angle During A Bowl Game: NBC, during the Orange Bowl, used a camera (remote-controlled by a computer) suspended by wires directly above the field, able to follow the action all over the field. Not always helpful, but invariably entertaining.

Two Trends Which Should Be Outlawed: The Wave and all T-shirts and buttons that use the anything “Busters” logo.

Two Guys Who Won’t Have Anything To Talk About When Doug Flutie Quits Football: Mike Lufkin and Sean Goudie.

Best Disappearance Act After Olympics: Carl Lewis. Who?

Best Candidates For Sympathy Cards: Bernard King and Walter Payton, two athletes who deserve to play on championship teams but probably never will.

Now, it’s high time we talk basketball. Guess who St. John’s Coach Lou Carnesecca includes on his All-Big East team? Scott Huie, of course. It’s true, I heard it myself. Don’t laugh, either. Who knows what Huie could do if he could post up the “Pearl”?

Good news for the Wildcats. Marshall, one of the preseason favorites for the Southern Conference title, is in disarray. Two of the Thundering Herd’s best players, Sam Ervin and Don Turney, have quit the team and will not return this season. Meanwhile, the Herd is not playing well and Rick Huckabay’s team enters its conference schedule below .500.

Bad news for the Cats. Although Marshall may not be as good as some originally thought, VMI and Appalachian State are certainly better. The Keydets beat Marshall (with Ervin and Turney) at Marshall last Saturday, which would have been a miracle last year. Look—VMI is nobody’s doormat this year. As for ASU, the Mountaineers have already defeated Western Carolina and barely lost at Wake Forest. If transfer Lynwood Robinson continues to improve, ASU will soon have the best team in the conference. Very soon.

If the Cats are going to challenge in the conference, junior Pepper Bego must regain the form he showed at the beginning of the season. Junior Gerry Born needs more help inside and freshman Jeff Hines has to become more aggressive offensively. Undoubtedly, the surprise of the year is the play of freshman point guard Derek Rucker. He has more than held his own against some quality opposition, namely The Midget from Wake Forest and the much-heralded Notre Dame frosh, David Rivers.

Better late than never, here’s my All-Southern Conference team: Glenn Clyburn (ASU), Regan Truesdale (The Citadel), Gerald Wilkins (UTC), Quinton Lytle (WCU), and Tom Curry (Marshall). I include the freshman Curry only because he’s potentially the best “big man” in the league, which isn’t saying much this season.

Now for my All-Unknown team. Here are five college players who deserve more recognition than they receive: Steve Mitchell (UAB), “EZ” Ed Pinckney (Villanova), Dell Curry (VPI), Karl “The Mailman” Malone (La. Tech), and Terry Catledge (South Ala.).

Stay tuned for Super Bowl predictions next week.