Friday, September 20, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

X-Country Finishes First Meet, Only To Finish Last
By RAND HARTSELL

The consensus? Not very pretty but we’re glad it’s over! On Saturday, from the coaches on down to the freshmen
on Davidson’s men’s and women’s cross-country teams, there was a collective sigh of relief that the first meet of the
’85 season was behind them. The men finished ninth out of nine teams and the women sixth out of six.
Wake Forest and the University of Virginia dominated both races, with Wake scoring a surprising upset of pre-meet favorite and
nationally top-ten ranked UVA. Duke, DePaul, Georgia State, the Citadel, Furman, and Radford all victimized the men’s teams. The women
fell prey to the same teams, except the Citadel, Furman, and Radford who don’t field women’s teams.

The Cats were far from psychologically decimated, however. “We knew we were stepping in high cotton,” head coach Sterling Martin
said. “We weren’t at all unhappy considering we had only been practicing together for a few days.” Indeed, on the
men’s side, team captain senior Frank Hague, senior Bob Watkins, and junior Emil Cekada all set personal best times for
five miles. That degree of success has been encouraging for the men. The performance of the team as a whole,
however unencouraging compared to the competition’s performance, has spurred some desire in Davidson’s Harriers. “Even though we were defeated badly,”
explains assistant coach Sarah Patterson, “everyone has worked hard during practice since the Wake meet.” Hague was particularly pleased with
freshmen Bill Whitfield and Bob Carnish’s performances. Whitfield placed fourth for Davidson and Carnish sixth. “It’s good that the freshmen
are running well,” Hague said. “It gives them confidence and motivates the upper-classmen to work harder.”

Unidentified freshman takes a dive at last week's regatta.

Lady Cats Field Win Over Salem College, 3-1
By EDWIN PAGE

Davidson’s field hockey team kicked off their 1985 season last Friday in a disappointing but not altogether surprising manner by
losing to the University of the South 8-0. However, the Lady Cats evened their record by beating Salem College 3-1
on Tuesday. The University of the South jumped on the inexperienced defense of the Cats for five goals in the
first half and added three more in the second for an easy win. Despite the lopsided score, Davidson coach Patty
Daley was not frustrated by the loss. Instead of dwelling on the defeat, the team worked hard at improving the
weaknesses exposed in the first game and readied themselves for Tuesday’s contest at Salem.

The work evidently paid off. In the first half, the contest remained scoreless, but early in the second half, the
Cats pulled away on goals by senior Suzy Klineman and sophomore Janet Bitter. That was all the offense the Cats
would need as Salem could muster only a single goal late in the game on a flick just out of
junior goalie Nana Lay’s reach. In spite of the victory, Daley sees room for improvement, even in the defense that
allowed only one goal against Salem. The halfbacks are hitting the ball better and clearing it more quickly, but she
feels they committed too many fouls. Sophomore MandyInterviews with Whitfield and Carnish, who tied for first in the freshman Cake
Race. Carnish spoke for both himself and Whitfield when asked about their impressions of their first collegiate race: “Scary as
hell. Bill and I ran together until the last mile and a half.” Both runners explained that the five-mile distance
is a bit foreign to them as the standard high school distance is 5 kilometers, roughly 3.1 miles. “I had
trouble pacing myself,” Whitfield said. “I went too slowly; both of us had a lot left at the end of
the race.” Both runners look forward to tomorrow’s meet in Lynchburg. The hilly course suits Whitfield and Carnish who claim
to run better over such terrain.

Women’s captain, senior Judy Dalton, summed up both teams' prospects for tomorrow's race. The women face Lynchburg College while the
men face Lynchburg College and Roanoke College as well. “Those teams are more in our league.” When told that assistant
coach Patterson expected the Cats’ women to win the meet, Dalton agreed: “Kappa Peddy [sophomore] has recovered from her spring
injury and ran very strongly last Saturday. I expect all of us will improve our running as teams, although, with
the hilly course, our times won't reflect that improvement.” Look for both Dalton and sophomore Laura Fannin to be closer
to Peddy against Lynchburg.

The men also expect improved performances over last week’s opening meet. Lynchburg’s course is hilly and has treacherous footing. Watkins
and Hague ran most of the race together at Wake. In order to have a successful meet against Lynchburg and
Roanoke, junior Greg Foreman will need to overcome the nausea that struck him at the two-mile mark in the Wake
race. Expect to see senior Taylor Simpson, and sophomores Chris Fisher and Bill Breidenstein, move up in the ranks as
their experience will be a valuable asset in upcoming meets. If so, the consensus next week will read: Very pretty,
let's do it again.

Barrett has played well at left back and Lay is continually improving in goal. Daley is also looking for more
consistent intensity from the attack. At the early part of the second half, the Davidson attack was very sharp, cutting
off Salem passes and carrying the ball upfield very quickly, and this is the kind of play Daley would like
to see for a whole game. Freshman Suzanne Mauze played very well at left outside forward and sophomore Susan Roarke
was solid at left link. The Cats put their winning streak on the line against a tough Pfeiffer team that
plays the equivalent of run-and-gun hockey. Daley is looking for a tough fight but believes the Cats have a good
shot if they can take Pfeiffer out of their game. “I'm very pleased with the growth we've shown in two
games and about where we're going.”

Davidson Students Win A Giant Bear! Register Every Time You Visit In September.

THE VILLAGE STORE
Everything To Make Your Room A Home!

UNITED CAROLINA BANK
137 N. Main St. Davidson 892-7815
I-77 at Hwy Cornelius /L. Norman 892-7805
