4 Friday, May 3, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Computer Center’s User Services Building To Open

By TED WILSON

By next fall, the User Services Building should be ready for use, according to Director of the Computer Services Center
John Casey. The College is restoring the former location of the Davidson Post Office to house the new computer building.

Casey said the User Services Building will handle “the bulk of services to academic users,” and will house “staff offices
for personnel who work the closest with students and faculty.” The new building will also have a large personal computer
lab, a terminal room, a conference room, and a graphics area. Casey said the College would buy ten more computers
for the building, which has the capacity to accommodate additional terminals.

He said the User Services Building will not affect the functions of the Computer Service Center and the computer rooms
in the basement of Chambers. “We will retain two rooms there with terminals and printers, and this building [the CSC]
will remain with a principally administrative computer staff and for administrative operations.”

Casey said the building is needed because the College has never had a location suitable for teaching users while providing
enough space for them to work. He explained: “It adds space which is badly needed. The [CSC] had only six
terminals” before they were replaced by offices last year, “and was not an adequate teaching facility. We also didn't have
all the staff in this building.”

The new building is comprehensive, housing staff offices while providing training and additional terminals. Casey added: “We are concerned to
make it a showcase for academic computing. We haven't had that until now.” He said that the building will be
an asset in recruiting prospective students and faculty members. The lack of a unified center “has been, and would have
become, a drawback to drawing people here.” The College wants to “show it off,” he said. “We need a way
to symbolize to people that we do this [offer computer services] as well as we do other things” here at
Davidson.

Casey said, “I don’t know the exact cost... the renovation is being done by both the Physical Plant Office and
outside contractors.” However, “the President has approved in the neighborhood of $70,000 to do the renovation.” He said that, in
effect, the money “is from available funds, largely gift income and some from the operating budget of the Physical Plant.”

“The initial projection for the User Services Building is $70,000 to renovate the old post office in addition to $100,000
to furnish the center,” he said. However, Casey added, “we haven't gotten that much money and it isn’t clear how
much we'll be able to do. We'll probably invest between $50,000 and $60,000 in equipment and furnishings by next fall.”

Casey said: “By and large the Board of Trustees and the administration have been sympathetic” to the new computer needs,
“but there has been an understandable concern about the cost. We have currently invested in hardware and software $1 million
over the last four years, and you...can’t call that unsympathetic.” Casey said, “there are no plans to add new staff
members,” though two internal staff changes have occurred. Betty Bradley, former coordinator of User Services, is now working for First
Union Bank. Casey said that she is being replaced and that a search has begun for a new coordinator. In
addition, the College hired Dr. John Savarese as the new assistant director of the CSC. He replaces Associate Professor of
German Hansford Epes, who, according to Casey, “wanted to go back to full-time teaching” here.

Though the College does not plan to hire additional staff members, Casey said the need for student workers will increase
with the opening of the User Services Building. “They are an essential part of what we do. There are twelve
students working for us, and they staff 100 hours per week,” teaching workshops and aiding student users. “We need a
30-50 percent increase [of student workers] with the new building,” Casey said, adding “we'd like to staff the terminal room
and Personal Computer room as we do in Chambers” to allow students and faculty to get “quick answers” about problems
they're having at the building.

With the expansion of the computer system and with more users operating the terminals, Casey said, “we have a concern
about the capacity” of the system. “The academic computers have been pretty slow lately.” He said, “The Board of Trustees
approved to upgrade the administrative computer system, and we're going to take parts of that system and use them in
the academic system.” Casey added, “We're adding memory and a communication line to the academic system to help the capacity
problem.” He said, “there is an opportunity [to add] more memory in the future, and then we will have expanded
it to its complete maximum.”

The administrative system needed expanding because of its slow response time and because it ran out of disc storage space.
Casey said, “We have already increased the disc storage space by 50 percent on each system,” and have changed the
processor itself to one that has four times the processing power to improve response time on the administrative system.

Though the User Services Building provides academic users more terminals and printers, Casey said, “it’s just a matter of time
when we'll need space for more terminal clusters. We recognize there's going to be a need for another location to
[meet the] demand.” However, Casey said there are “no plans to build something from scratch.” So far, the College has
used established buildings for its computer centers. “They will pay off with continued use, and we won’t abandon them [when]
we need another place for terminals and personal computers along the road.”

CONGRATULATIONS TO OUR NEW BROTHERS

Jody Hart
Trip Jobe
Brooke Knight
Steve Lau
David Maynard
Will Mitchell
Ken Mobley
Matt Newsome
Steve Onili
Steve Ott
Dan Rikard
David Rosselot
Bob Sherrill
Rob Sitton
Allen Smith
Stephen Smith
Michael Spear
Eric Strother
Richard Tankard
Jim Thompson
Todd Wallenius
Ted Wilson
Pete Wright
Rob Zimmerman

ARAM FIDELIS"... Sigma Chapter, Kappa Alpha Order

RATRES USQUE AD
