4 Friday, February 15, 1985 / The Davidsonian

Is Self-Selection Caught In A Paradox?
(continued from page 1)

parties and other group events. Still, the prolonged rush period, now extending into winter term, helped avoid the old problems caused by selectivity. Other options became available, as well, with the opening of non-selective eating houses and with the advent of coeducation. With the blend of quasi-selective fraternities, non-selective co-ed eating houses, and eventually single-sex houses and the Commons, the Court has developed the compromise system still in effect today.

The Art Of Negotiation
Terry said “the bottom line” is still the individual's right to self-select. Citing the necessity for freshmen to show interest in the houses they may wish to join, he said, selectivity becomes a problem when people are rejected. “This is where the shoe will pinch,” he said. In spite of this, he said, the present system provides the “opportunity for negotiation with houses.” Terry noted that many unencouraged students negotiated into fraternities had succeeded in the organization and had been accepted. He also said most fraternity “shotgunners” he had talked to who were neither encouraged nor welcomed at first were generally happy with their social life after four years.

Terry said the social life section of the College Catalog may give a “false expectation” to incoming freshmen. He has taken it upon himself to modify the Self-selection description in next year’s catalog, he said.

Current Policy
Currently, the social system operates under guidelines set up in 1975 by the Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL), modified by recommendations Terry made to Spencer during Spencer’s last month in office. In 1978, the CCRL report said the Davidson social system was based on the premises of small-group dining and that “the final decision about joining a particular group is the student’s.” “The Principle of Self-selection is fundamental,” the report added. The CCRL noted, however, that freshmen should show interest in the houses they want to join. “Freshman participation cannot be encouraged too strongly, because that participation will encourage a warm welcome for him at the house into which he self-selects,” the report said. The CCRL also approved all houses’ use of encouragement, though it barred active discouragement. Encouragement, it said, would establish “a strong reciprocal relationship between the freshman and the house.” But it said encouragement “is neither a necessary nor sufficient condition” for house membership.” It also gave freshmen who believed they had been discouraged the right to appeal to the Patterson Court Council (PCC) subcommittee, which was to govern Self-selection.

During his last month in office, Spencer requested Terry’s recommendations on social system policy. Terry told Spencer he based his suggestions on perceptions he had gained during his 12 years as Dean and in “the past year of student discussions.” Terry’s recommendations included:
— the philosophy of Self-selection should be maintained so that the right of the individual to make the final decision is preserved;
— all houses should be allowed to encourage freshmen, but no house be allowed to discourage anyone actively;
— orientation to the Court should be in depth, emphasizing the freshman’s right to self-select but also emphasizing the necessity for showing active interest in a house; and
— a committee be formed to organize and monitor Self-selection.

The final recommendation set up the current Self-selection committee, proscribed its makeup, and delineated its powers. Terry prefaced his recommendations with “observations made over the past 12 years and information based on the past year of student discussions.” They included:
— fraternities have “developed a better quality of fellowship, friendship, and group loyalty than have coeducational eating clubs”;
— fraternities “make a significantly more valuable contribution” to social life than do co-ed houses;
— “the number of students being hurt by rejection by fraternities has increased dramatically over the past three years and markedly this past year (82-83)”;
— most students do not want a total bid system, neither do they want strict enforcement of Self-selection, and a two-tier system would not be popular; and
— any social system must “command the loyalty of a great majority of students or it cannot be enforced.”

Underlying Questions
Surrounding the discussion of the practical Self-selection issues are more theoretical questions concerning Davidson’s social life. What should the social system here do, and how should it achieve its purpose? Should the Administration attempt to design it, or to regulate it? Or should the will of the students guide this system?

Kuykendall said the College has two areas of interest in the social system. Whatever system frames it, he said, should be “constructive of community” and not destructive of the unity of the College. The system should also allow students “self-expression, ‘fun,’ social interaction with people they want to be around, and some they don't want to be around,” he said. He said the system should be something in which no student should have to be involved, but also something which each student should have a right to. Kuykendall said the administration should not impose a certain policy on students, but neither should the students say “this is what we're going to do.”

Terry noted that “too much direct interference is going to raise all sorts of hackles that defeat the very thing you’re trying to do.” He said he would like to see “some grassroots direction.” “I don’t see the social system as an opportunity for social engineering,” he said. Flexibility is the key to the issue, he said. “You want a social system responsive to student desires, without it costing an arm and a leg every time you try to change it.” Kuykendall said the theory behind the current system is “representative of some pretty significant principles.” The system will work different ways during different years, but, he said, “the testHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Of the final validity for any system is that it can maintain the basic principles which undergird it. Any system should reflect the nature of the College, Kuykendall said. “Any policy ought to have certain principles, premises, that bespeak the values of the institution.”

SCC To Consider Changes In Council Procedure (continued from page 1)

Dean of Students Will Terry said faculty members have voiced concern over students not following self-scheduled exam rules. Professors are not required to give self-scheduled exams and have the option of giving scheduled exams.

SCC To Discuss Council Procedure

The Student Conduct Council (SCC), which determines policy for the Honor Council, will meet Thursday, March 14, to consider changes in the way the Honor Council carries out trials and complaints of honor violations, according to Terry. Though no agenda has been set, Terry and Honor Council members this week discussed with The Davidsonian issues the SCC will likely cover. Most agreed the amount of time allowed between a complaint of a violation and the trial, if one follows, needs condensing. Presently, 10 days are permitted between a complaint of a violation and the issuing of a charge against a student. The Dean may extend this period, however. Most favor a 30-day limit between a complaint and for any resulting trial to begin. But Terry said a new 30-day limit may interfere with Davidson’s Christmas holiday, which sometimes lasts for three weeks. One Council member suggested that the limit be set at 35 days to accommodate the instance of a report of an alleged violation before a three-week Christmas holiday.

Others have considered changing the elections of Student Solicitors and Defense Advisors so that both offices would always have experienced members. Terry said he may recommend having more than one team of solicitors and defense advisors in order to alleviate heavy workloads both offices have had in the past. “One year,” Terry said, “a solicitor had to finish three of his courses over the summer,” because of the number of trials the Council held that year. One Council member said staggering the elections of solicitors and defense advisors would hinder students running for the offices on one ticket.

Another issue concerns the order in which the defense advisors and solicitors present their closing arguments in a trial. Under present procedure, the solicitors deliver their closing arguments last. One Council member said allowing the defense advisors to give their closing arguments after the solicitors would be more fair to a student charged with a violation.

The SCC may address the question of whether trials should always be open to the public. Now, trials are open unless the accused party requests that their trial be closed. In the past four years, the Council has held two open trials. The most recent one occurred last fall; the Honor Council found sophomore Jeff Kusch innocent of a plagiarism charge, which originated from a complaint by sociology Professor Peter Venturelli. Many here at Davidson feel that the community has a right to know the business carried out by the Honor Council. Others, however, place a higher priority on the privacy of accused students. One Council member said the Council and the Dean have been “relatively unwilling to discuss changes. . . . They don’t want to be the ones challenging the system.”

Knox To Get Locks

(continued from page 1)

Or mechanical efforts to solve all the problems. But that doesn’t mean you don’t want to do all you can.” Meetze said “any security measure supported by the college family is good. But we must have support.” He said students “can’t break the lock system and give out information” for the system to work. However, “if properly administered, it could be positive.” Terry agreed with Meetze that students must still use common sense and take safety precautions, even with the new lock system. He said, “We can have a cop on every corner, a lock on every door, and a telephone on every fence post, and if people want to be stupid about their own personal security, it won't do any good.” Though Knox residents have yet to test the new system, opinions vary about its future effectiveness and convenience.

Steve Condon said “it’s ridiculous. I see no need for it. If people lock their doors, there would be no problem.” Condon added, “It’s like any issue here at Davidson — it gets blown out of proportion.” Todd Beddard said “it’s a good idea, after all the problems we’ve had out here.” Living far off the main campus warrants installing a lock, he said. Katherine Prillaman said “I like the fact that there will be some system but I don’t like the way they’re doing it, because the combination will get out; but I can’t really propose [a better] solution because keys and cards can be copied and have to be given to a lot of different people on campus” such as maintenance workers, students, and the administration. Prillaman added that the lock system “is not destroying what Davidson College is. We're just accepting reality. The lock system will make Davidson a better place.” Emilie Sebesta expressed the sentiment of many residents, saying “it’s a good idea but after a week almost everyone on campus will know the combination.” She said she thought “as rape goes, most of it involves people who know you, and they will know the lock combination.” Resident Advisor Mary Edwards said “My general impression is that I’m in favor of the system. Recent awareness of the lack of security has [demonstrated] a need for this kind of system.” She said it’s “secure and convenient enough to be a good system for the campus.” She said problems may come “with the irresponsible use and indiscriminate giving out of the number by students.”