The Davidsonian
Volume LXXV, Number 8
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, November 8, 1985

Race Relations Task Force reports progress toward recommendation

By JIM DILLON

In response to the report of the Task Force on Racial and Ethnic Concerns to the Davidson College community, four
panelists reported progress toward the Task Force’s recommendations in an effort to improve the quality of racial and ethnic life
at Davidson during a meeting of RACE (Racial Attitudes Concerning Everyone).

The panel, which consisted of College President John Kuykendall, Vice President for Development John Griffith, Assistant Dean of Students Paula
Moore Miller, and Acting Dean of Admissions Gardner Roller Ligo, reported that the four offices represented had been working toward
the recommendations made in the Task Force report.

Kuykendall reported that the Board of Trustees had accepted the policy statement made by the Task Force as the policy
of the College and has allocated a $100,000 budget toward its implementation this year. “To illustrate the level of commitment
of the Trustees, every faculty and staff member at this college could have had their salary increased by one percent.
The real growth in the budget that has resulted is 12 and a half percent. This is a significant commitment
by the Trustees,” Kuykendall said.

Following the Task Force recommendations, the Board of Trustees allocated the $100,000 budget as follows: $11,000 to hire a minority
counselor in the Dean of Students office, $11,000 to hire a minority officer in the Admissions Office, $10,000 for travel
to recruit minority students, $40,000 for merit scholarships for minority students, $8,000 for the hiring of a part-time minority employee
in the Personnel office, and $20,000 as a Task Force Contingency Fund to be used to employ part-time and visiting
faculty members.

“The real worth of what is being done now will be measured in what will occur in future years,” Kuykendall
said.

Kuykendall said the search for black faculty members has been a competitive one. “One of the sobering realities we faced
is the competition we face in the area of recruitment of black faculty members. We have a special consciousness of
that,” Kuykendall said. One black faculty member was hired for the current term, and Kuykendall said two possibilities are being
sought for spring term, but he said there has been no real progress toward finding possible full-time black faculty members.

Kuykendall established a citizens advisory committee of black community members in Davidson, but he expressed his disappointment with turnout at
its meetings. “Sixteen to 18 blacks have expressed interest in the committee, but I’m sorry to say that attendance at
meetings has been fairly disappointing. We've had as many as five and as few as two so we have limited
results to date in that aspect,” Kuykendall said.

Miller reported that the Dean of Students Office has instituted tutoring programs and a freshman orientation program for black students.
“The tutoring program is in place, going strongly, and running smoothly, thanks to the help of a lot of departments
and students who agreed to tutor,” Miller said.

Miller reported that the school is looking into the possibility of having a black woman pastor who was raised in
Davidson work in the Counseling Office and assist college Chaplain Charlie Summers. Miller noted that problems with black students feeling
out of place still persist at Davidson. “A lot of black students come into my office and tell me that
all the other students are asking about their hair and dancing with them at parties. Black students just don't feel
welcome sometimes. Even if you welcome them with open arms, they don’t feel welcome,” Miller said.

Miller moved into a full-time position in the Dean of Students office as a result of the increased budget. Gary
Mason is a newly appointed assistant dean of admissions, the other position made possible by the increased budget. Ligo said
Mason primarily deals with minority recruitment. “He is a professional admissions person, and he brings a variety of talents and
insights to the admissions office,” Ligo said.

Ligo reported that the admissions office has initiated a visitation weekend for black students and their parents, and she said
black alumni were also present at the weekend. Ligo also reported that financial aid and other awards for minority students
were increased. “We committed more money than we were allowed to, but we simply got bought out in some situations
by places like Stanford, Harvard, MIT, and Yale. We just have to convince them that Davidson is the place to
be,” Ligo said.

Applications from minority students were up last year, and that trend is expected to continue, according to Ligo. Programs such
as Student Search are now...Reaching more racial minority students, and travel and recruitment are up as well, Ligo said. “We
are now reaching toward an increased number of blacks, and we are also reaching toward more minority transfer students. We're
deliberately searching in different places and into more areas where we know there is a larger college-bound minority population,” Ligo
said. Griffith reported that the Office of Development is searching for ways to increase the budget, and he said the
school is in need of funds. He said two Winston-Salem companies have expressed interest in such funds. “What these companies
keep telling us is that the Board of Trustees will have to make the decision, but the Board of Trustees
are from Connecticut, and they assume that Amherst and Williams have taken the lead. Tell us what's different and better
about Davidson and what can be used as a model for other schools. We aim to be convincing,” Griffith said.
Griffith noted that Davidson is ranked in the 75th percentile for private liberal arts colleges in the percentage of black
students and in the 90th percentile in the percentage of black faculty. “So indeed we are in a position, a
profile that we are worthy of funding. What we're thinking about is around a million dollars. That's what we want,”
Griffith said. Griffith said he talked to a Davidson alumnus who had an extremely optimistic view of Davidson's future in
racial relations. “His vision is that Davidson will someday be the center for black-white communication among southern colleges. I share
that because I think it’s exciting to see that an alumnus from the '40s would think that,” Griffith said.

President John Kuykendall speaks to parents about Davidson and their child’s life here during last week’s Parents’ Weekend.

False alarm raises questions
By ANDREA DIEDRICH

The fire alarm in Irwin Dormitory went off last Saturday around 2:15 a.m. and rang for 30 minutes before someone
turned it off, Irwin's Resident Advisor David Williams said. Williams said he reported the alarm to the campus police almost
immediately and after some investigating felt certain it was a false alarm. Sergeant Wayne King responded to the call in
five to ten minutes but arrived without keys to turn it off, Williams said. “I felt that was ridiculous because
when we [the RAs] were told we would not be given keys to turn off the alarms I assumed the
police would have keys to turn off the alarms immediately,” Williams said. When King returned about ten minutes later neither
key he had fit the lock. It was another fifteen minutes before Maintenance Engineer Phillip Cashion arrived and turned off
the alarm.

Since the RAs no longer have the responsibility of turning off the alarms it is not clear who does hold
that responsibility. Public Safety Director Jackie Hughes said the responsibility rests with the Housing Office, although the campus police will
respond if they are available. He said the police turn off the alarms and unlock doors for students as a
courtesy, but the responsibility for anything related to the dorms rests with Housing. Housing director Tom Jennings said the responsibility
has been delegated to the police since he and officer Ray Thrower made an agreement shifting responsibility from the RAs
to the police officers. Jennings decided to take responsibility from the RAs for two reasons. First, if the RAs are
not in the dorm when an alarm goes off the police have to be called anyway. This problem has been
partially solved by the new weekend RA schedule, Jennings said. Second, if the RAs are in the dorm Jennings feels
students might be more likely to pull fire alarms because they know the alarm can be easily turned off. “I
made the agreement with Thrower as a deterrent to prevent students from pulling alarms,” Jennings said.

“Jennings and I discussed the desire of the maintenance department to have police officers respond to alarms in order to
have a record to see if there were any problems with the alarms, but we never made a definite agreement,”
Thrower said. Hughes said he does not believe students intentionally set off fire alarms very often although the police do
not investigate the cause of false alarms. He feels alarms are set off most of the time by smoke from
cooking. Cashion said the smoke alarms are so sensitive “lighting a match in the hall can set off the alarm.”
He said the degree of sensitivity does not bother him because “that means the alarms are doing their jobs.”
