The Davidsonian
Volume LXXIV, Number 18
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Wednesday, April 10, 1985

Author Tom Wolfe Addresses Audience On Clerisy

Tom Wolfe addresses a packed crowd in Love Auditorium.

By TED WILSON

“I’ve tried to be a heretic,” author Thomas Wolfe said after his speech last night on “The Great Reevaluation: New Ideas and Intellectual Fashions in the Twilight of the 20th Century.” “Someone had to write and talk about the Clerisy as they write about other areas of life. Someone should write about the world of writers.”

Wolfe, author of several books, including The Right Stuff and The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test, is this year’s Reynolds Lecturer. Sponsored by the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation, the lecture series began 24 years ago to bring distinguished guest speakers in the Humanities, Sciences, Arts, and Philosophy to campus.

Wolfe defined clerisy as the world of artists, teachers, and thinkers who have “molded” peoples’ attitudes. He said their role in the past has been to “mold the consciousness of a nation.” In the 18th and 19th centuries, the clerisy “mediated between the upper class and the lower class and gave direction to the ambitions of the nation.” But now, there is “a dislocation between objective facts and attitudes of the clerisy,” and hence, “the clerisy must meet the educated public halfway.”

“The clerisy creates the attitude that if an American is to be considered cultivated, he should appreciate contemporary arts.” Hence, there is “a huge audience for difficult arts.” New painters are reintroducing figures that still have contorted features, but are lively and somewhat narrative. “The role of the painter today is to take the junk of American media and to expropriate it,” he said. The painter must “subvert the media itself and create a new form.”

Wolfe said today’s dislocation between the clerisy and the people they represent “goes back to America’s version of clerisy.” He said the clerisy always seeks “some sort of catastrophic trend to embrace.” In the 1920s, they saw the “notion of an American bourgeoisie; the 30s [brought] the Depression; FDR’s New Deal has been labeled ‘Social Fascism’; and Lyndon B. Johnson’s social plan has been called ‘Liberal Fascism.’”

Wolfe said the clerisy “embraced the War in Vietnam like a long-lost lover by writers [who described] the war, the enslavement, and the apocalypse.” The war justified their “role as clerisy, set upon an apocalyptic landscape.” But now “catastrophes are lacking in this country,” he said, and the clerisy has nothing to embrace.

Wolfe said we are experiencing “a wholesale shift in ideas and attitudes” as the dawn of the twenty-first century approaches. He said such idea changes occurred at the end of both the 18th and 19th centuries. The French Revolution in 1789 introduced new ideas “that changed the history of the world.” And, one hundred years ago in the 1800s, Marxism, Freudianism, and Modernism emerged, the latter of which provided the “look” of the twentieth century and the arts. He said, “You can look at the map today to see the impact of Marxism,” adding it “affected the (continued on page 3)

New Head Football Coach Gatto Sets Goals

By ANDY BARRON

Victor (Vic) Gatto was named as Davidson’s new head football coach in an announcement last Tuesday by Director of Athletics Christopher (Kit) Morris.

“We are delighted to have someone with Vic’s outstanding qualities become part of the Davidson program,” Morris said. “As an athlete, a coach, and an educator his career has been marked by distinction and achievement.”

“We were especially impressed with his ability to restore programs, so ably demonstrated at both Bates College and Tufts University. Vic possesses the character, imagination, leadership, and commitment that we have sought in this search from day one.”

Gatto coached Tufts University to an 8-0-0 record in 1979 and was named Northeastern Coach of the Year. His overall record at Tufts was 34-19-3 in seven seasons. In addition, he was an All-Ivy League halfback on the 1968 Harvard team that went 8-0-1 and won a share of the conference championship. He still holds the Harvard career rushing record with 2,130 yards.

At Davidson, Gatto replaces Ed Farrell, who will become director of athletics at the University of North Carolina at Asheville. Farrell coached at Davidson for 11 years. At the relatively young age of 38, Gatto will be starting his 13th season as aCollegiate head coach next fall. Gatto was only 26 years old when he became head coach at Bates College in Maine in 1973. At Bates, Gatto won his initial game to end a 26-game losing streak. His 1977 team was 4-3-1, giving Bates its first winning season in a decade. At Tufts, he coached four Division III first-team All-Americans—defensive tackle Mark Buden (1978), quarterback Chris Connors (1979), tackle Mike Brown (1980), and nose guard Tim Keegen (1980).

“I am very excited to be at Davidson,” Gatto said. Gatto has several ideas to improve Davidson's playing: “Davidson football is in a transition period, but I think with an imaginative passing attack we can be competitive. We've got to take a closer look, but my inclination is to have a wide-open style of offense that will enable us to compete with many opponents. We want a ball control, passing type of game similar to that used by many pro teams. One of our primary goals will be to get student-athletes who can be successful in the classroom and on the field. Another goal is to gain support in the immediate community and from our alumni.”

Gatto received his Master's Degree in 1971 from Harvard and has nearly completed requirements for his doctorate. He is a native of Natick, Massachusetts, is married, and has three children.

Admissions Office Focuses On Minority Recruitment
By JOHN GATHINGS

The Office of Admissions and Financial Aid is planning strategies to meet the goals outlined in the Task Force on Racial/Ethnic Concerns’ policy statement. The statement, which was approved at the February Trustee meeting, requires the College “to enroll students and to employ faculty and staff whose performance and contribution will be consistent with Davidson’s traditional standards of excellence;” also “to intensify efforts to seek trustees, faculty, staff, and students of various racial/ethnic heritages.”

In response to the statement, the Office of Admissions and Financial Aid has budgeted additional money for minority recruiting, scholarships, and a full-time assistant dean of admissions. Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid John Griffith said these changes were necessary. “This will allow us to be competitive in recruitment and admissions of minority students,” Griffith said.

In their budget meeting, the trustees approved an additional $10,000 in the admissions recruiting budget for minorities. Griffith emphasized, “this should be put into perspective with the fact that the total travel budget for last year was $22,000.” At other schools, “a typical admissions travel budget ranges from $50,000 to $80,000.”

The budget also allocates $40,000 to establish merit scholarships for minority students. Griffith said the Faculty Committee on Admissions and Financial Aid, who is responsible for selecting merit scholars, will “use the same criteria as for any student.” Griffith said these scholarships make Davidson competitive with other schools. “To compete for the outstanding black scholar, we would have to respond to the recruiting activities of these schools.”

The Trustees also provided for a full-time assistant dean of admissions. While the admissions office is still reviewing applications for the position, other staff members are busy with minority concerns. “We have someone working just about full time in the recruitment of black students,” Griffith said.

Presently, the office plans a joint program with Charlotte Mecklenburg schools. In a program similar to SGA Weekend, black juniors will visit Davidson, but only for a day. “The strategies we are moving toward are aimed at identifying black students earlier than the fall of senior year,” Griffith said.

The new budget goes into effect on July 1. Former SGA President John Laughlin said the Trustees had approved a total of $100,000 to enact the goals of the Task Force Report. Co-Chairman of the Task Force Bruce Jackson said of the Trustees, “I'm pleased that they were able to find a way to do it.” He added, “I think this is a very quick response to us.”

Most of the work now is left up to the individual departments affected by the policy. “It is an implementing question now,” Jackson said. The Dean of Students Office has already moved to act on the policy. Beginning in July, Assistant Dean of Admissions and Assistant Dean of Students Paula Miller will become a full-time assistant dean of students. Miller said the job will involve a “support system for all students.” Although there will not be a specific focus on minority concerns, Miller said that “minority students will certainly benefit.”