Thursday, December 12, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Lucinda Kellam

The role of Union President is difficult to define because it can entail as little or as much as the
individual puts into it. The specific responsibilities of the Union President involve: interviewing and selecting the committee chairs of the
Union Board, chairing the Union Board and Union Policy Committee, supervising Union programming, interpreting the bylaws, etc. However, a good
Union President should not just address these issues at face value, but take them a step further in their fulfillment.
For instance, instead of simply finding two committee chairs, the Union President, with the help of the two vice presidents,
should recruit, interview, and select diverse and motivated committee chairs who will program activities that will appeal to the entire
college community. The Union President should be able to look beyond the weekly programming and try to give direction to
the Union as a whole. This particular aspect will be crucial in the upcoming year with the raise in the
drinking age. Most of all, the Union President should have the initiative to help guide the Union as a whole
and the ability to motivate others to want to help in this process.

I feel I am uniquely qualified to fulfill the role of Union President for a number of reasons. First, as
co-curricular Vice President this year I have gained valuable experience that enables me to set higher goals for Union President
in the coming year. Having already participated in the selection of committee chairmen, the Union Board, and the Policy Committee,
I have learned a great deal about the administrative process of the Union. My familiarity with this process of the
Union will make me more able to motivate others to participate.

Secondly, I feel I possess an ability to motivate and organize others well. This year, as chairman of the Artists
Series, my committee sold out the season for only the second time in the history of the series. Most of
all, I feel that these experiences, combined with my personality, enable me to perceive fairly well what the cultural and
social needs of the college community are. I hope to be instrumental in helping the Union accommodate the changing needs
of the college community by involving as many people as we can. Lastly, I encourage everyone to participate in Tuesday's
elections and I would greatly appreciate your support.

Alan Futral

On Sept. 1, 1986 the drinking age will be raised to 21. I make this observation neither in protest nor
support, but to call to light the imminent change that the new law will bring to Davidson's social life. The
Union, with proper handling and energy, will become an even larger part of every student’s life. Over the last three
years, the Student Union has made visible changes and has enjoyed unprecedented support from the student body. The most pressing
task of the incoming officers is to ensure this continual positive evolution. The Union is on a roll, so the
officers must be charged with enough vigor and foresight to keep it rolling.

I got involved with the Union as a freshman when George Guise, Bobby Houck, and I were asked by Rob
Vaughn to play in the 900 Room on Friday afternoons. From those meager beginnings (scarcely 20 people showed up to
hear us croon), I went on to help Rob with some other 900 Room programs. Later, I was chosen as
the 900 Room coordinator, a brand new title, and I was given membership to the Union Board. Both the official
committee and board membership were newly created positions. My job as 900 Room coordinator was to program events for the
evenings, and more importantly, start the committee from scratch. I had to define my job position, convince people to help
me, and program with little or no precedent to guide me. Out of this confusion, I managed to solicit the
help of some very capable people, and together we developed the Friday Afternoon Club, Monday Night Football, and Cinema and
Draft into subcommittees.

Friday Afternoon Club now has many different musicians, free food, t-shirts, and a sizable audience. An auditionary committee holds tryouts
and organizes the performances. Cinema and Draft features popular films and popcorn. We developed a program called “A Night With...”
in which a student guest D.J. spins tunes from his favorite band. Monday Night Football and Wonderdogs also doubled in
attendance. Each one of...these programs has its own subcommittee chairman, and a committee that are part of the 900 Room
committee. Occasionally, we issue a 900 Club calendar for a busy week. I instigated the redecoration of the room and
programmed special social events like open-mike, spaghetti dinners, and the 900 Room opening party. The Union is organized much in
the same way that the 900 Room committee is now organized. It has many separate committees which program for the
Union as a whole. I have learned the value of harnessing enthusiastic and creative people within a framework in which
the time and effort they invest produces results semi-independently of the larger organization. I believe the President of the Union,
like the 900 Room coordinator, must catalyze the energies of these separate committee chairmen, organize them into a unified general
purpose, and keep the ball rolling. I have proven that I have this ability, and I'm eager to use it.
Please vote.

Matlock continued (continued from page 1)

was achieved was a fresh start,” he said. Matlock emphasized that the summit meetings set up a structure for future
interaction and that they gave the U.S. and the Soviet Union “real impetus in negotiations under way.” He said each
party “agreed to accelerate the work of our negotiations, to concentrate on areas where there is greatest common ground and
to apply a fifty percent reduction of strategic weapons in appropriate categories.” He said that substantial agreement was made to
broaden contact between the two nations. In future years, Matlock said, “we're going to have peace in any event,” because
both countries are too rational to destroy each other. However, the United States “will have continued differences with” the Soviet
Union, and “there is no reason to hope that the Soviet Union will become a virtual ally of the United
States.” Matlock said the future will fall somewhere between utter nuclear war and a U.S.-Soviet alliance. “The question is whether
some of the friction and tension will be replaced with a greater degree of cooperation. This question will be answered
over the next several months and years,” Matlock said.

A shift by the Soviets to non-military means to spread their influence, to elimination of the first strike threat, and
to a new compliance with past agreements in the near future could lead to significant progress to a stronger relationship
between the two superpowers. “The Soviets have a theory that they should support national liberation movements. There is no problem
if the support is economic or political, but it is a problem if they send in arms and troops,” Matlock
said. Matlock summarized the prospects of the future of U.S.-Soviet relations: “We do hope for a relationship of less tension
and more cooperation. But we're not going out and saying ‘this is a new dawn.’ What we want to put
into place is a steady policy, one that will not move with the ups and downs and can attain American
objectives in the relationship in a peaceful way.”

A defense against cancer can be cooked up in your kitchen. There is evidence that diet and cancer are related.
Some foods may promote cancer, while others may protect you from it. Foods related to lowering the risk of cancer
of the larynx and esophagus all have high amounts of carotene, a form of Vitamin A which is in cantaloupes,
peaches, broccoli, spinach, all dark green leafy vegetables, sweet potatoes, carrots, pumpkin, winter squash, and tomatoes, citrus fruits, and brussels
sprouts. Foods that may help reduce the risk of gastrointestinal and respiratory tract cancer are cabbage, broccoli, brussels sprouts, kohlrabi,
and cauliflower. Fruits, vegetables, and whole-grain cereals such as oatmeal, bran, and wheat may help lower the risk of colorectal
cancer. Foods high in fats, salt- or nitrite-cured foods like ham, and types of sausages smoked by traditional methods should
be eaten in moderation. Be moderate in consumption of alcohol also. A good rule of thumb is to cut down
on fat and don't be fat. Weight reduction may lower cancer risk. Our 12-year study of nearly a million Americans
uncovered high cancer risks particularly among people 40% or more overweight. Now, more than ever, we know you can cook
up your own defense against cancer. No one faces cancer alone.

AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY
