8 Friday, November 8, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Who's On First?
By ANDY BARRON

Why, why, why, why, why?! Why was Whitey Herzog named manager of the year in the National League by the
baseball writers? Anyone could have taken the Cardinals to the World Series with all the great years their players had.
Willie McGee didn’t hit .353 because of great moves by Whitey Herzog. Just because St. Louis wasn't supposed to have
a great season this year means the sports writers who made those predictions were wrong. Pete Rose kept a bunch
of nobodies in the pennant race until September and deserves the honor.

Why doesn’t every team in the NFL use an offensive or defensive lineman in the backfield on short yardage situations?
Certainly Chicago's William Perry isn’t the only lineman who could perform such a task.

Why does the NHL condone fighting? Hockey is a rough game and some fighting will occur when tempers flare. However,
there are too many “goons” playing professional hockey because the NHL lets intimidation and completely unnecessary roughness go undeterred. Anyone
who watches hockey more than just a few times realizes that the fighting gets old quickly. Hockey is one of
the fastest, most graceful, and most exciting sports around when fighting is kept to a minimum. Aggressive players, yes; goons,
no.

Why is artificial turf allowed in outdoor stadiums? Piles of evidence prove the surface causes tremendous strain on knees and
bones, and most fans would agree the rugs ruin the games meant to be played on grass (especially baseball and
soccer). Thank goodness baseball commissioner Peter Ueberroth has made grass stadiums a prerequisite for new franchises.

A few unanswered questions from the world of sports...

Why is pro basketball so boring when college basketball ranks among the most exciting sports around? The endless season of
the pro version has to be a factor, but I think pro basketball suffers from excess talent, if that is
possible.

Why can’t Billy Martin last a full year with the Yankees? He did a great job again this year. If
the Yankees start losing again, you can bet new Yankee skipper Lou Piniella will be looking over his shoulder.

Why is Mary Lou Retton on every time I go near a television? She drove me crazy during the Olympics
(I thought the Romanian gymnast should have beaten her). One more Eveready commercial and I'll go crazy!

Why don’t college football teams have a national championship tournament like every other sport? The game is so balanced and
has so many good teams that no champion by poll will ever be legitimate. There has to be a way
to work out a tournament that uses the bowl games so that, God forbid, the infamous “Bowl Committees” don’t lose
all that money their games generate.

Why do 16 out of 21 teams in the NHL make the playoffs? Talk about making the regular season meaningless.

Why is Joaquin Andujar such a jerk?

Why do people care about the NFL, a league in which every team in one division (the AFC Central) has
a 4-5 record?

Most importantly, why doesn’t the school build some more street hockey courts? As it is now, the legions of loyal
hockey players have only one place on the whole campus to play (next to Richardson Field), and there they have
to put up with those pesky basketball players. Come on, powers that be at Davidson, this is a real need.

SAE, Babes lead going into MAC tournament
By EDWIN PAGE

It’s that time again. The leaves are changing and the weather is cooling off, a sure sign that it’s almost
playoff time. Davidson's annual rite of humiliation — for freshmen, — flickerball season, ended this week and post-season action starts
Sunday.

In the men’s division, SAE’s Drop and Give posted a perfect record to maintain the coveted top spot in the
rankings all season long. KA Gold rebounded from a thrilling preseason exhibition loss to Drop and Give to go 5-0
in the regular season and lay claim to the number two spot. A PiKA team, Say You're Scared, is likewise
undefeated and goes into the tournament ranked third. A second hoddy team, J.J. Gold, posted a 4-1 record, good enough
for the fourth spot. Three freshmen teams, First Center’s entry Uba-Duba and the Cosby Kids (2-2), Third East's OFF (1-2-1),
and Kinky Pinky's (2-2), actually managed to grasp the peculiarities of flickerball well enough to make the playoffs.As a reward
for this achievement, each will be fed as an appetizer to one of the top four seeds in the first
round Sunday. In the women’s division, perennial powerhouse Penthouse Babes is once again undefeated and the tournament favorite, but they
will have some tough aquatic competition if they are to repeat as champions. The 4-0 Crabs and the 4-1 Barracudas
will have some say in the outcome of the tournament. The big surprise of the women’s side is number five
Rapunzel’s Revenge, based on Fourth Rich. These long-haired, tower-dwelling types have mastered the game at an unusually tender age and
could do well.

Rain has played havoc with this year’s regular season, postponing several games. Accumulated rust could therefore become an important factor
in the early rounds, making for some potential upsets. First-round action begins Sunday and continues through Tuesday. Schedules are posted
in the gym, Chambers, and all over your neighborhood. The IMAC Council requests that you check your refereeing assignments and
make sure to be at your assigned games. To make it worth your while, payment is $4 per game during
the playoffs instead of the usual two.

Can KA or PiKA make the SAE’s Drop and give? Will the Trajans Rage? Can anyone defeat OFF? Can the
Barracudas or the Crabs take a bite out of the Babes? For the answers to these and more questions, stay
tuned. Same Bat time, same Bat channel.

X-Country finishes fourth
By RAND HARTSELL

Davidson's women’s cross country team took part in a bit of history on Saturday, November 2; they competed in the
first Southern Conference women’s cross-country championship held in Charleston, SC at the Citadel's home course. Davidson's women finished fourth ahead
of Western Carolina but behind champion East Tennessee State, Appalachian State, and Marshall. The men’s team beat Western Carolina also,
but fell prey to the rest of the field as East Tennessee won its eighth consecutive title. Marshall, Appalachian, Citadel,
Furman, Tennessee-Chattanooga, and VMI also beat Davidson.

Sophomore Kappa Peddy led Davidson's women, finishing 17th overall. Nursing an injured knee, Peddy turned in a 20:06 performance over
the flat 5000 meter (3.1 miles) course. “We did about as well as we could have considering our injuries,” assistant
coach Sarah Patterson said. Sophomore Morrow Reeves has an injured knee which hobbled her performance as well. Senior Judy Dalton
finished second for the Cats, followed by sophomore Laura Fannin, senior Caroline Kelly, sophomores Sarah Longley and Reeves, freshman Susan
Austin, and sophomore Debbie Niles.

East Tennessee senior (and shoe-in for All American honors) Brian Dunne blazed the Citadel's five-mile course in a torrid 23:39.
Since joining the Southern Conference in 1978, ETSU has yet to lose either the individual or team title. Davidson junior
Greg Foreman finished twenty-first overall as he set a personal best for five miles in 26:08, 22 seconds faster than
he thought he had run. “I died between three and four miles,” Foreman recalled, “but I was able to dig
out a good last mile.” Senior Frank Hague was second for the Cats with freshman Bill Whitfield, sophomore Bill Breidenstine,
senior Rob Watkins, junior Emil Cekada, and sophomore Chris Fisher and freshman Bob Cornish rounding out Davidson’s team. “Five of
us set personal best records for five miles,” Hague said. “We really put together a good effort collectively.”

“It was really good to have a lot of supporters cheering for us,” Foreman said, alluding to the number of
Davidson supporters who showed up for the race, many of whom, but not all, were students’ parents. “Sarah's (Patterson) father
helped me during the race, especially when I needed some inspiration to find a kick at the end of the
race.”

Most of the team (men and women) will conclude their season on November 16 in Greenville, SC at the NCAA
district meet. Dalton, who qualified for the NAIA Championship in Kenosha, WI, will travel there on November 23. Peddy has
also qualified but has opted to have orthopedic surgery performed in order to repair her injured knee. Foreman has also
qualified for the race but, as of this writing, is still undecided.

For 73 Years
MENSWEAR and WOMEN’S WEAR with you in mind
Store Hours — 9 A.M. till 5:30 P.M. Mon. thru Sat.
Phones (704) 664-4711 or 663-3701
Downtown Mitchell Mack Class of '42 Mooresville

UNITED CAROLINA BANK
137 N. Main St.
Davidson 892-7815
892-7805
Lake Norman I-77 at Hwy 73
