THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor  
Kevin Horan, Associate Editor  
Brooke Knight, Managing Editor  
Will Thomason, Business Manager  
Ann Roddey, Production Editor  
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors  
Andy Barron, Sports Editor  
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor  
John Elster, Advertising Manager  
Amy Harrell, Circulation Manager  

Self-study

After approximately two years of labor, Davidson has finally completed its self-study, a work of not just great thought, but also great length. From a committee comprised of about 165 students, faculty members, and professors comes to us the ideas and the recommendations for further improving upon the quality of life afforded to us here at Davidson. These recommendations are many, and we urge you to seek out copies of the Self-Study and browse through its 351 pages at your leisure. Rest assured you will be amazed and perplexed, if not even surprised by some of the recommendations made by our peers and professors. Particularly interesting is the recommendation for the option to change a pass/fail course to a letter grade course any time prior to the tenth week, given the student has a C or better in the course. Options of this sort abound with possible changes for the better noted throughout the work. Not just changes, but inadequacies are noted as well — for example, the inadequacy of our existing theatrical companies, and symphonies of great size and ability. Unfortunately, like any piece of great literature, you will find that the Self-Study also has its faults. Mainly that parts of it are outdated. One example in particular deals with a subject currently on most students' minds by stating that the student parking facilities are sufficient. We have already discussed the inadequacies of that realm of our campus life. All things considered, let’s hope that the Self-Study does not, like some campus endeavors, get filed away like a novel to press prom flowers and gather dust and great memories of two years spent on introspective research. Too much time has been spent by too many valuable people for this to happen. Instead, it should become the most active work on campus, for only from this work and conclusions drawn there, will Davidson find such changes as improved theatre and art facilities, changed athletic programs, and adjusted curriculum. The self-study is over, now let’s study it ourselves.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Andy Ball, Laura Batten, Richard Cloudt, Jim Dillon, Keith Finch, Andrea Gross, Heidi Hooker, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, David Williams  
Features Staff: Laura Ballenger, Bill Bugg, Martha Johnson, Matt Morris, Samuel Scott  
Sports Staff: Edwin Page, assistant sports editor; Rand Hartsell  
Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Beth Drummond, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong Lye, David Petranick, John Reuter  
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Kim Nikles  
Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Kim Crabtree, Beth Drummond, Kristin Galloway, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen Keely, Kara Kooken, Kris Kost, Beth Parker, Kim Robertson, Margaret White, Ben Yarborough  
Compositors: Doug Kim, Ann Roddey, David Soud, Sara Strachan, Laure Van Dierdonck  

Friday, October 4, 1985

THE DAVIDSONIAN

JOHN, THE STUDY LOOKS GOOD THISTIME BUT I HOPE IT’S NOT GETTIN’ TOO INTROSPECTIVE.

Letters - Speaker

To the Editor:

I would like to comment upon the speaker, Jack Wheeler, an “adventurer-philosopher” brought to Davidson by the Speakers Committee two weeks ago. As a member of the speakers committee, I feel that it is important to have such controversial figures speak at Davidson. It frightens me, however, that his impressive presentation could have greatly influenced Davidsonians who had not been previously informed on his subject.

Mr. Wheeler’s viewpoint was very one-sided. He painted a red, white, and blue glaze over “anti-Soviet” revolutions in several countries. He also portrayed the Soviet Union as an evil, immoral country filled with black Russian war machines. Human nature may make one feel comfortable with this image of our country’s adversary. Common sense, however, tells us that every government is composed of good and bad people making good and bad decisions. Mr. Wheeler’s implication that to be pro-American one has to be completely anti-Soviet is indicative of a philosophy which lacks sound reasoning.

Mr. Wheeler lumped together the fights and plights of rebel groups in several radically different countries. While the causes of countries which have been invaded by the Soviet Union can hardly be argued, it is not fair to categorize these countries actually in a state of civil war. The Afghanistani and Cambodian rebels share few similarities with guerillas in Nicaragua and Zaire. The country mentioned of which I have some knowledge is Nicaragua. In this case, at least, Mr. Wheeler combined some beautiful photography with a few facts, and a lot of propaganda and contra rhetoric to give a highly biased opinion of the situation. He admitted that he has never been on a non-military expedition inside the government-controlled areas of Nicaragua. Thus, his reports of the lives of “average Nicaraguans” were probably taken from dissatisfied soldiers in the mountains of Honduras!

Mr. Wheeler’s assertions were not based on anything remotely resembling objective study. Though he does an excellent job at his professed favorite activity, (“pissing-off the left”), attitudes such as Jack Wheeler’s are hardly helpful to students searching for the truth behind world politics.

Sharon E. Spong

Basketball

To the Editor:

I think it’s about time they did away with the basketball goals in Johnston Gym. They're obtrusive—a plain nuisance if you ask me. They detract from the gym’s real purpose. How can we be expected to concentrate on our indoor aerobics or indoor volleyball or indoor soccer or indoor street hockey or indoor P.E. classes or indoor study halls with these eyesores hanging over us like three reviews on a Friday?

In fact, they probably ought to go ahead as planned and convert Johnston to a theater-arts building. Nobody around here plays basketball. Hell, Hussey can take them boys outside if all they want to do is shoot ball. They play most of their games in the Coliseum, anyway.

Okay, I don’t want to be unreasonable. I’m willing to put the goals up during the winter. But, hey, NCAA Division I basketball teams don’t need to practice during the off-season. And I challenge anybody to find somebody else around campus who's interested in pick-up games. Face it, the vote’s in: Davidson students don’t really care about basketball. They’d rather fight for court space in the new tennis arena. Maybe they could redesign Johnston for indoor tennis. I’m wondering if we have enough courts yet to handle the demand.

William Naso