2 Western Union Film Service

SGA End-of-the-Term Report

The “SGA End of the Term Report” is published as a supplement to and a summary of the weekly SGA
minutes. The Report is designed to inform the student body of the SGA’s work over the past ten weeks and
to share plans for the coming months. The following is the fall term report. Any suggestions or questions should be
directed to any SGA senator or the committee chairpersons below.

Twelve dorm senators, three freshmen class senators, and three off-campus senators were elected this fall. Working with these senators, and
those class senators elected last spring, has facilitated our roles as President and Vice-President. The ten committees of the SGA
have been very active this past term carrying out their responsibilities and planning events for winter and spring terms.

Admissions
With admissions counselor Steve Soud, the Admissions Committee has been planning SGA Weekend ’86. The weekend of April 6th through
8th will welcome over one hundred prospective students to Davidson. [Vic Isaacs, -6267 or Karen Kemerait, -6759]

Athletics
The committee has been working with Sterling Martin in the development of a physical education handbook. The handbook will highlight
the courses offered in the P.E. department, explaining time commitments, fees, and requirements for credit. The handbook will be completed
prior to spring term. [Walt Gramley, -7398 or John McNichols, -6473]

Career Symposium
This year’s Career Symposium, to be held Jan. 14 through 16, features professionals from fields ranging from architecture to medicine.
They will be on hand to meet with students in small groups to answer questions and to give advice. The
symposium will also feature three open luncheons. [Edward Hay, -6052]

Charter & Bylaws
The revision of the SGA Bylaws is almost complete. Ken Mobley and his committee are working to make copies of
the Bylaws available on reserve in the library in January for inspection by the student body. All comments, questions, and
criticisms are welcomed. [Ken Mobley, -6613]

Leadership Training
Betsy Downs and her committee have planned a series of leadership workshops focusing on various aspects of leadership. The workshops
will begin Jan. 20. [Betsy Downs, -6316]

Phonathon
The Phonathon is underway! This volunteer-fueled undertaking raises money to offset the college’s operating costs which are not covered by
tuition. Student volunteers phone alumni and parents; there is a friendly competition between Patterson Court houses. Join in the fun
before it ends Dec. 14. [Dave Handy, -6248; Christi Hayes, -8626; Mark Sandy, -6409; or Hunter Roddey, ext. 115]

Rides
The Rides Committee provided transportation to the airport for over 70 students prior to Thanksgiving break. This service will again
operate prior to Christmas break. Sign-ups for rides will be held in the lobby of Chambers. [Olivier Van Dierdonck, -6052]

Security and Parking
Louis Zbinden and his committee have spent much of fall term working with the security officers. Campus security officers are
working to increase student awareness of and regard for security and individual responsibility. There will be a weekly column in
the paper summarizing the campus security items of concern. Security escorts are available upon request by using the phones installed
on the second floor of Chambers, in Cunningham, and at the police hut. Replacement light fixtures for the Patterson Court
area are forthcoming. [Louis Zbinden, -6323]

Student/Faculty Socials
The Coffee & Cokes organized by Sally Gray and Sally Schilling were quite successful. Upcoming plans include an afternoon social
with the jazz ensemble performing. [Sally Gray, -3598 or Sally Schilling, -7556]

Trustee Contact Committee
Anil Sood has organized a group of students who act as liaisons with the trustees. The students met with the
trustees at their fall meeting and have since written the trustees letters keeping them up-to-date about goings-on at Davidson. [Anil
Sood, -6371]

Winter term elections will be held Tuesday, Dec. 17. Student Solicitors, Defense Advisors, Freshmen Advisors, YSSC President, YSSC Vice-President, Wildcat
Handbook, and Davidsonian editors will be elected. Polling places will be in Chambers and the Union.

Shalom Christian Bookstore
Inspirational Books, Gifts, Music
For God's Children of all ages
126 South Main Street
892-0166

Thursday, December 12, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN News SummaryIf you would like to learn more about SGA, come to our meetings. They are held every
Tuesday evening at 9 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.

Beadsie Woo
Christie Johnson

Prospective minority students to visit this weekend

About 60 minority high school juniors and seniors from Mecklenburg County and the East Coast will visit Davidson Dec. 12-14
for a weekend called “Davidson: College and Career Perspectives at a Highly Selective Liberal Arts College.” The students will arrive
this afternoon and attend a reception and dinner in the 900 Room. After the dinner, Patrick Hudson ’77 will speak
on “The Value of a Liberal Arts Education.” Hudson is a former assistant attorney general for South Carolina and is
now an attorney in Columbia, S.C.

On Friday, students will attend classes, tour the campus, explore Davidson’s facilities, meet with student leaders and other members of
the community, and attend social events to experience college life at Davidson. Sessions will cover making applications to college, college
and student life, financing an education, and how students can take advantage of a Davidson education. The students will leave
campus Saturday morning.

Davidson’s Office of Admissions and Financial Aid has organized the weekend, which is co-sponsored by the Black Student Coalition, the
R.A.C.E. (Racial Attitudes Concerning Everyone) committee, and the Patterson Court Council.

Music department to perform Christmas Vespers

The Davidson College Concert Choir, Wind Ensemble, and organists Laura McDonald and Wilmer Welsh will perform music by Giovanni Gabrieli,
Dietrich Buxtehude, John Taverner, Heinrich Schutz, and Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart in a Christmas Vespers service at 7:15 p.m. Dec. 15
in Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The Rev. Charles Summers, Davidson College chaplain, will preside. The event is a part of
the Vesper Concert Series and will be broadcast live on WDAV (89.9 FM) in a program hosted by Program Director
Susan Page beginning at 7 p.m.

Offerings collected during the service will be given to the Uptown Day Shelter, a program providing food, clothing, and job
counseling for homeless people, sponsored by downtown churches in Charlotte.

Senators plan individual class projects

SGA underclass senators are working on individual class projects for the first time. The junior class distributed a survey concerning
independent study to all Davidson professors. The survey asked the professors what they believe can be gained from independent study.
The surveys were handed out to the professors last week and are expected back by December 16. The junior class
officers intend to compile the results of the survey and publish a pamphlet before the spring term registration. Junior class
president Alex Maultsby said, “We won’t know the format [of the pamphlet] until we get the [surveys] back.”

The sophomore class project is a summer jobs file. Surveys were distributed to Davidson students earlier this year asking them
for their past summer jobs. The results of this survey will be put into a file that will be kept
in the Career Office. The file will be available for student use before the end of the school year.

The freshman class is planning a forum on alcohol awareness at Davidson because the legal drinking age will rise to
21 next September. The freshman class officers are trying to get state legislators, Davidson college officials, and local police officers
to speak and answer questions about the effect the new drinking age will have on Patterson Court. This forum will
be open to all students and is scheduled for after Christmas.

Material contributed by David Bearce.

Sophomore class summer jobs notebook completed

The sophomore class SGA senators, in conjunction with the Career’s Office, have completed a notebook of the surveys taken in
September concerning students’ 1985 summer jobs. Jobs are grouped both by geographical location and types of jobs. The notebook and
several job directories from the Career’s Office will be available from Wednesday through Friday in front of Chambers Gallery. After
Friday, the notebook will be in the Career’s Office from 10-2 p.m.

“This is an excellent time to get ideas for an interesting summer job before looking during Christmas break,” sophomore class
president Sally Schilling said.

Material contributed by Sally Schilling.

CAROLINA BANK
Main St. Davidson
892-7815
892-7805
Lake Norman
I-77 at Hwy 73
