Friday, January 25, 1985 / The Davidsonian 11

OPINIONS

Sakharov’s Views on the Middle East Are Outdated

Bilal El-Amine and Sally Howell

Although Vladimir Sakharov was an entertaining speaker who made several valid points about the United States’ and Soviet Union’s interests
and intentions toward the Middle East, we would like to express our dissatisfaction with both Sakharov as an expert on
the region and the Davidson audience’s reaction to his speech.

One of Sakharov’s first points was that the number of Muslim citizens in the Soviet Union is growing much faster
than the Slavic Russian population. It is even estimated that in the next decade the number of Muslims will exceed
the number of Slavs. Sakharov maintained that this enables the Soviet government to further its influence in the predominantly Muslim
Middle East by using religious similarities to appeal to the Arabs’ sense of Muslim unity.

We feel, however, that this is not only disadvantageous to the Russian leaders in the Soviet Union, but is also
not an effective policy. Communism and Islam are irreconcilable because the nature of both is that of an entire social
system. For this reason, the Arabs are unwilling to accept communism as anything more than a means to overthrow the
existing order. By no means are they willing to adopt communism as their way of life. Furthermore, the Gulf states
have witnessed the Soviet expansionist invasion of Afghanistan and are fearful and unwilling to have this happen in their own
states. This has, in fact, led Arab leaders to seek the friendship and protection of the United States.

Soviet policies of using their Muslim population to gain support in the Middle East may also threaten Soviet leaders by
activating a Muslim front, both within and outside of the Soviet borders, to increase Muslim influence in the Politburo. This
is not an unrealistic suggestion when the revolutionary appeal of fundamental Islam is considered. The expansionist nature and potential explosiveness
of fundamentalist Islam must not be underestimated.

Another major flaw we saw in Sakharov’s premises was the actual outdatedness of his arguments and information. His experience in
the region appears to have ended when he left in the early Seventies. Not only has the Middle East changed
tremendously since then, but it is also difficult to apply experiences gained in one area to other conflicts in the
region. Hence the foundations for his arguments and predictions appear to be misfounded. For instance, three incidents which have overwhelmingly
influenced the reshaping of the Arab mind in this decade have been the Iranian revolution, the Lebanese Civil War, and
the Camp David Accords. When Sakharov implied that he could predict long-range Soviet policies in the area, it struck us
that many Arabs are unwilling to be held to their own personal predictions in an area as unstable and turbulent
as the Middle East. This is made obvious by the absolute surprise the world expressed over the Iranian revolution, including
the surprise of Iran’s closest Arab allies.

We were also shocked to note that the conflict within the Middle East with the most far-reaching and disturbing implications,
that between the Arabs and the Israelis, was completely overlooked by Sakharov. The major setback to U.S. foreign relations with
Arab nations in the region is the United States’ close alliance with Israel. The Arab leaders, viewing this alliance with
hostility, feel that it has given Israel the power to act belligerently against its neighbors and to occupy territory in
Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, and Egypt. Hence the United States, in its best diplomatic efforts, will always be limited by the
resentment and distrust of the Arab world. A good example of this hostility was the attack against the U.S. Marine
barracks in Lebanon.

We are frustrated that Love Auditorium was packed for a speaker whose understanding of the Middle East was distorted and
outdated. We wish that he could have put aside his pro-America worldview to give us a responsible, well-informed, and objective
address on an area of the world that this community in particular seems to be ignorant of. It is depressing
that this ignorance allowed the Davidson audience to receive Sakharov’s speech without question. An easy remedy for this lack of
understanding would be for the Davidson community to expose itself to a higher level of international awareness. This could be
accomplished through an upgrading of our area studies opportunities and through attracting responsible speakers to the College. Greater student participation
in international events here on campus is necessary for the administration to be convinced that this is a worthy investment
on the part of the College.

El-Amine is a sophomore political science major from Dharan, Saudi Arabia. Howell is a senior Center major from Charlotte, N.C.

The Davidsonian “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions
articles on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community. We adhere to these guidelines:
1) We require that all articles be in our hands by 7 p.m. Monday.
2) We accept typed articles and those written legibly, double-spaced.
3) We require that opinions be signed. We will print unsigned articles only if a compelling reason exists for withholding
the author’s name, and the author is known to either the editor or executive editor.
4) We will not edit opinions for style or content but we reserve the right to edit for length.The right
to edit for rules of common English. We will inform the author of substantial changes. 5) Since space for Opinions
articles is limited, we reserve the right to select articles from those we receive for publication. We will attempt to
print any article we withhold from publication for space reasons the next week. Realize this fact and, acknowledging the lack
of spots in adequate locations, take a much more tolerant attitude towards cars parked on the curb around Patterson Court.
The problem is especially serious at lunch and dinner times. Also, if the police refuse to adopt a more reasonable
stance on this issue, let them be at the very least indiscriminate in their ticketing. SAE isn’t any worse than
the other houses, but it isn’t any better either. Check it out, Mr. Policeman! Every meal you’ll find 20 cars
parked in front of SAE just begging to get one of those obnoxious little tickets. Only once this year have
I seen a ticket on a BMW. How come the dude in the little go-go buggy “runs out of time”
as soon as he finishes with the Delts? And another thing. If you cops continue with this unreasonable practice, then
how about dropping fines to three or five dollars like they used to be? Take a look at other campuses
and you'll find five dollars is about average—I know it’s two dollars at Furman. The point of this letter is
not to attack SAE. I want the cops to get off everybody's backs in light of the circumstances. I know
I am supported by most of the student body. I beg a response from the Davidson College Campus Police, either
through this paper or through the absence of the tickets.

A. Boyd Blackburn

RAPE

To the editors:

While I admire the intentions of the RAPE Committee, as a direct result of its flyer distribution in my dorm
this past week, I am forced to question the committee’s priorities. At this point, it appears to me that RAPE
is doing more harm than good. According to statistics quoted in last week’s Davidsonian, acquaintance rape accounts for about 70
percent of all rapes. Assuming that acquaintance rape is the same as “date” rape, I would argue that at Davidson
this form of rape occurs at least 95 percent of the time, if not more often. With this in mind,
why does RAPE put out flyers with self-protection tips, 50 percent of which are directed towards the less common non-acquaintance
rape? The flyers’ advice like “lock your room and residence hall” and “avoid traveling alone” promotes, I believe, unjust fear
among female students. The flyers also state that “most rapists know their victims in advance.” Are our female students not
supposed to trust their male friends? This is Davidson, not New York City. We trust one another here more than
do students at most campuses. Fear of the sort the flyers produce can almost only serve to undermine this trust.
Locking doors or walking with an escort service does not and will not address or prevent the real rape problem
at Davidson. Davidson is a college. Men and women here have new freedoms that they must use wisely and new
responsibilities to themselves and others that they must accept. In short, Davidson students, male and female, must learn how to
conduct themselves in a college’s social atmosphere. “Date” rapes are a direct result of students failing to learn this. The
RAPE committee should concentrate its resources on this unfortunate social ignorance. RAPE, you are bravely attempting to redress an important
dilemma at Davidson. Please, educate us. Don’t scare us.

Andy Kromer

Football

To the Editors:

I was intrigued to see the incredible irony in last week's issue. The Davidsonian was willing to run D. D.
Wright's article (“No Hoopla, No Respect”) and then prove Wright’s point by printing the wrong photo (that’s D. E. Wright,
not D. D. Wright). It just goes to show that football players are indeed the Rodney Dangerfields of Davidson—no respect.
Wright’s article gives a good insight into the football team’s feelings about life at Davidson: frustration, anger, and even a
sense of persecution. Playing football at Davidson certainly does not live up to the expectations of college football and this
is due to many factors: lack of scholarships, high admission standards, poor facilities, difficult schedules, etc. However, blaming the student
populace is not going to solve the problems. I am sure that D. D., and several others, are frustrated by
the weakness of the football program, but venting their anger on the students’ lack of support is hardly profitable. Granted
that “the fun comes in performing for a crowd,” but this should not be the reason for playing the game—that
borders on the egocentric. Instead, true athletes receive gratification in the knowledge of a game well played, knowing they did
their best regardless of the score or the number of people in the stands. D. D. claims that “it is
hard to get excited about a losing team.” This phenomenon is not unique to football; it holds true for every
sport everywhere. The true measure of success, though, should not be measured by how large the crowd is, but how
well one lives up to their potential. All it takes is a positive attitude, the willingness to try, and not
making excuses if the goals are not reached. Though this is no guarantee for “hoopla,” it will bring respect, which
is far more valuable.

Ian F. Dunn
