10 Friday, February 8, 1985/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
Kevin Horan, Business Manager
John Gathings, Production Manager
Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor
Will Thomason, Advertising Manager
David McCurry, Circulation Manager

Council Procedure

Last fall, as a result of an open Honor Council hearing, many at Davidson felt that the Council’s procedure needed revision. It is now four months hence, and precious little has happened regarding these changes. The Student Conduct Council (SCC), the body that sets procedure for the Council, has not even discussed these changes yet. Solicitors, defense advisors, and other Council members were supposed to meet on the Tuesday following the open hearing. Dean of Students Will Terry was planning to submit student suggestions to the SCC and the Honor Council. Somehow, these initiatives for change faded away after the hearing.

Council members, however, are now supposedly formulating recommendations for change on several issues, but apparently due to the politics of the situation, they will not discuss these changes on the record. The Council must not avoid change by retreating behind its wall of secrecy. Do Council members and the SCC have the courage to reflect on and evaluate the way trials are carried out, or will it take another open hearing to bring these issues to the front burner?

We urge Council members and the SCC to weigh the following suggestions for change in a spirit of constructive criticism. Truly, our honor system is unique and worthwhile; its procedure, though, is due for revision.

The amount of time allowed between complaints of an honor violation and the actual trial needs condensing. A maximum period of 30 days should be allowed without exception to complete a trial after a complaint of a violation. Presently, 10 days are permitted for the solicitors to issue a charge against a student after a complaint, but the Dean may extend this period over school breaks or vacations, if necessary. The open trial last fall occurred four months after a complaint of a violation was made. In all fairness, the accused deserves a prompt trial.

The SCC also needs to define more precisely the guidelines for hearsay evidence (the presentation in a trial of what someone else has said as evidence). Hearsay evidence cannot be cross-examined. Ideally, it should be eliminated altogether, but it may, in a few cases, add significant information in a trial. However, there remains great potential for abuse. It is possible, though not probable, that the solicitors or defense advisors could base a case solely on hearsay evidence.

Another question involves professor testimony. Why aren’t professors required to testify before the Honor Council? The Honor Code depends on professors as much as it does on students, who, if called, must testify before the Council.

A problem that manifested itself during the fall term hearing was inexperience. The Council retains experienced members, but new solicitors and defense advisors are elected every year. Perhaps if solicitors and defense advisors served two-year terms, with new ones elected each year, the Council would benefit by always having experienced solicitors and defense advisors.

The fall term case also brought to light admittedly minor irregularities, but irregularities nonetheless, in the way the accused was treated before the hearing. The rights of the accused should always remain paramount. An accused student should be allowed to have his or her defense advisors present whenever he or she is questioned by the Dean, the solicitors, or Council members. Moreover, when the Council hears final arguments, the solicitors now speak last; this clearly contradicts presumed innocence of the accused.

Finally, the Council should consider opening the process entirely. We need not repeat the arguments for an open system here, but they are strong indeed. Opening up all procedures from now on would ensure the credibility essential to the strength of the Honor Code.

Certainly, other reforms are on students’ and professors’ minds. We encourage everyone to voice their concerns to Dean Terry, Council members, and the SCC. Davidson can only achieve a more perfect system of justice on campus if it aspires to one.

Ross Holt, Editor

Letters

Selfishness

To the Editors:

In response to Peggy Pierotti’s editorial in the Feb. 1 Davidsonian entitled “House Proposal Is Untimely and Selfish,” we would like to disagree. We are two freshmen, who, as unbiased observers, have noticed the recent developments concerning Patterson Court. We believe that the new all-women’s eating house idea is indeed timely. Peggy herself says that “the popularity of Rusk and Warner Hall is very great and [they] are now and will continue to be unable to meet the demand for spaces.” This is obviously true and therefore we are unable to understand why she maintains that the proposal is “untimely.”

Secondly, Peggy contends that the proposal is also selfish, because the present co-ed houses are in need of members. She believes that the present situation is adequate and that the women on the waiting lists at Rusk and Warner Hall could join one of the other houses. It is evident, however, that the women have little desireto join a co-ed house or to be placed on waiting lists. Would Peggy selfishly deprive the women from forming a new women’s eating house in order to save F & M? In conclusion, there is definitely a need for another all-women’s eating house in order to meet present demands. Peggy presents no valid argument why these women should not start their house. Patterson Court should reflect the change in attitudes among the students. If the trend has swayed from co-ed to single-sex houses, what right does anyone have to try to stop it?

Rob Sitton
Richard Tankard

Poppycock

To the Editors:

In reference to recent suggestions that the establishment of a new women’s eating house is a selfish move because of utilitarian concepts, I would like to say poppycock. It has not been demonstrated that a new women’s eating house would hurt the whole of the court, so it is not reasonable to assume that Spencer, as it will be called, will damage the college community. The question, more to the point, is whether or not eighty or so women should form an eating house, despite whatever consequences that action brings. I applaud them and their right to establish their own social setting, and I hope it succeeds. 90 percent of the women in Richardson voted in favor of creating their own, unisex eating house. Who, then, is to tell them they should not follow that which they have determined to be their desire?

I have been flattered by and accepted invitations to meals and events at PAX and Emanon, two excellent houses and the ones perceived as threatened by another women’s eating house. At the risk of sounding cold, isn’t it true that if these houses do have to leave the court it is due to the fact that they don’t offer the situation that people want? You simply can’t deny people the right to decide their lifestyle on the grounds that, for some unknown reason, change just shouldn’t exist. I sincerely hope that PAX and Emanon remain as strong as they now are; their dissolution would be a great loss to the campus. But if they should experience difficulties, perhaps one can view that as the result of the evolution of the eating house system instead of selfishness and ruthlessness on the part of many women who desire single-sex eating arrangements but face the prospect of not getting into overcrowded houses. Wishing to avoid the loneliness of waiting lists, meals in the commons, and separation from friends is very understandable and is, in no sense, selfish. As it was once said, by Sir Francis Bacon, I believe, the only immutable thing is change.

Sayres S. Rudy

Thanks

To the Editors:

The Un-Fellowship would like to thank everyone who contributed to our recent fund-raising project. Half the proceeds from the doughnut sale have helped to buy a heater and a supply of kerosene for a family in Statesville. Special thanks go to APO, which donated $100. The Charlotte Area Fund provided a roll of carpet as well. The recipient of the heater writes:

Greetings in the name of Jesus. Thank you very much for the heater and carpet. I really appreciated everything you did to raise the money to purchase the heater. I have been very warm this week. Thank you so much and may God richly bless you for being such a blessing to me.

Sincerely,
Geraldine Wagner

Thanks for your support!
The Un-Fellowship

Answers

To the Editors:

Because my criticism of the Raised Awareness and Protection for Everyone (RAPE) Committee (The Davidsonian, Jan. 25) went unheard, I am again forced to ask the RAPE Committee to educate Davidson students, not scare them. In my initial letter I made the claim that at least 95 percent of all rapes on our campus are “date” rapes. Melissa McLemore in her response (Feb. 1) did not challenge my figure, so I continue to believe it to be accurate. Melissa, with my figure in mind, please respond to my next question: Why do we need the student patrols? I share the concern of the Davidsonian, which asked in its Jan. 25 edition, “why a student watch is necessary at all. The College pays... a security force for the campus.” Apparently, our female students do not feel threatened when walking about on our campus; the escort service from the library was recently canceled. If the women here do not feel insecure, let me ask again, why do we need the patrols? I believe the mere existence of the patrols and the fact that they will ask girls not to walk alone will only promote unjust fear among Davidson women.

I was pleased to see that Melissa agrees with me in saying “that attitudes of the students are the causes” of rapes on campus. Unfortunately, the watches will not change students’ attitudes in a way that will be beneficial to our school. Davidson’s Director of Public Safety Jackie Hughes says that he sees “no need” for the patrols because there has not been an assault on campus “in a long time.” Although he will go along with the RAPE Committee’s desire for the patrols, he is fearful that “someone (in