8 Friday, January 25, 1985 / The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Davidson Wildcats Top South Carolina, 77-61

By STEVE BYERS

Davidson handed South Carolina its first home loss of the season last night, 77-61. Freshman point guard Derek Rucker, who
finished with a game-high 19 points and five assists, ran the spread offense flawlessly and made crucial free throws down
the stretch to prevent a Gamecock comeback. After the game, both coaches cited the play of Rucker as a key
factor in the Wildcat victory. South Carolina Coach Bill Foster also pointed out that his team was not used to
playing without a shot clock, which became painfully obvious midway through the first half.

Davidson Coach Bobby Hussey had decided to experiment with the spread offense for only a few minutes, but when he
saw Rucker and sophomore Chris Heineman able to penetrate at will, he wisely stuck with it. The result was either
a foul, a short jumper, or a backdoor layup by junior Ken Neibuhr (18 points). Another bright spot for the
Cats was the aggressive play and rebounding of freshman Jeff Himes. His quickness, along with junior Gerry Born’s rebounding (nine
for the game), completely neutralized South Carolina’s big men both offensively and defensively.

This statistic pretty much sums up the game for Davidson: the Cats shot an incredible 81 percent in the second
half (71 percent for the game), while South Carolina shot only 34 percent in the second half (44 percent overall).

A week ago Davidson was 3-0 in the Southern Conference and riding high after a big road win at Appalachian
State. But the Cats dropped two conference games this past week, both hard-fought six-point losses. Davidson played well in both
games but faltered in the stretch. Against VMI it was an impatient offense and defensive lapses which did the Cats
in. In the Marshall game, crucial turnovers and missed free throws at the end spelled doom. So, as of now,
Davidson is 3-2 in the conference and 7-11 overall. Instead of battling for the league title, the Cats are fighting
to keep their heads above water. UT-C currently resides in first place, while an improved VMI club holds down the
second slot.

Jim McConkey makes a jump shot

Anyone surprised at UT-C’s success so far this season? “No, not at all,” said junior Pepper Bego. “They’ll always be
competitive because they recruit so well. Last year they had a lot of good freshmen whom no one ever saw,
but this year these players are blending well with veterans Clifford Morgan and Gerald Wilkins. I’m not surprised at their
success.” Born says of the Moccasins, “We knew they’d be good, with players like Morgan and Wilkins. Right now you’d
have to say they’re a safe bet to win the conference.”

Okay, so UT-C is good. As usual. But how did Davidson lose to VMI Monday night? Sure, the Keydets returned
last year’s starting lineup intact, but VMI is still VMI — right? Wrong. The Keydets are for real this season.
Marshall discovered that earlier, and the Cats found out Monday night, losing 57-51. “VMI was very patient and they don’t
take any bad shots,” said Bego. “They’re well-disciplined. We got a lesson in how to run a patient offense. We
rushed some.

Wrestling Team Drops Match To Winthrop

By MIKE ADAMS

The Davidson wrestling team lost its first dual match Wednesday to Winthrop, 32-12. Winthrop has not had a wrestling program
until this year, but it fielded a surprisingly strong team. There were few bright spots in the match for the
Wildcats. The Cats lost the first five matches. Freshman Steve Lau, 118, and junior Taylor Simpson, 134, lost by pins.
First-time starter sophomore Mark Wennburg, 126, lost 19-10, and sophomoreJ.T. Lay, 142, dropped a 10-3 decision. Senior Brad Essman provided
some excitement in his 150-lb. match. Down 14-4 in the second period, he fought back to a 16-14 deficit with
30 seconds left. He could not close the gap any further, though, and lost the match. The upper five weight
classes fared a little better. Senior Mike Keeley, 158, won the first match for the Cats, 13-0. Freshman Keith Finch,
167, was pinned and freshman Tim Heinze, 177, lost 20-9. The Cats closed on a sound note. Freshman Doug Saintsing,
190, won 7-1 and first-time starter junior Andy Macary won 9-1 at heavyweight. Davidson dropped to 2-1 for the season.

Robert Nesbit shots near the end and their ball movement eventually wore our defense down. Still, Davidson stayed close throughout
the contest, largely due to the play of the 6-7 Born (22 points, eight rebounds — both game highs). Born
didn’t get much help, though. The only other Cat in double figures was Rucker, who finished with 10. The Cats
did an admirable job of defending VMI’s two best offensive threats, Gay Elmore and Cedric Wins. Unfortunately, another Keydet picked
up the slack. “[Darren] Sawyer had a spectacular shooting night, which really helped them,” said Niebuhr. Junior Jim McConkey put
it more succinctly: “Sawyer killed us.” VMI’s forward finished with 20 points.

Last Saturday night in Johnston Gym, Davidson and Marshall collided in a great basketball game. This one has become something
of a bitter rivalry of late, probably because the Thundering Herd always brings a contingent of obnoxious fans to cheer
them on. Marshall is the team you love to hate. It has a cocky, outspoken coach in Rick Huckabay. And
the team plays a style of ball very reminiscent of Georgetown’s: intimidating, ball-hawking, full-court pressure defense. And like UT-C, the
players may come and go, but the Herd continues to win, as they did here Saturday night, 80-74.

The Cats got balanced scoring (five players in double figures), a great rebounding effort from Niebuhr (11 total) and even
some key missed free throws by Marshall. But it wasn’t enough. Davidson could not maintain its lead, and the Herd
comeback forced an overtime. The overtime consisted of Marshall making its foul shots when it had to, while Davidson was
unable to generate anything offensively. Tom Curry and Jeff Battle paced the Herd with 13 points each, while Born led
the Cats with 15. “We should have won that game,” said Bego. “We didn’t have that killer instinct at the
end and our lack of experience probably hurt us. We made too many turnovers down the stretch.”

But there were some bright spots. Niebuhr said, “The Marshall game showed me that we have what it takes to
finish in the upper division of the conference.” Bego added, “Marshall is one of the best teams in the league
and we took them to overtime, which says something about what we can do.”

The Cats face two more conference games this week. They host The Citadel tomorrow night in Johnston Gym and travel
to Western Carolina Thursday for a big road game. Davidson needs both games to stay in the thick of the
race, but it must stop The Citadel’s Regan Truesdale and Western’s Quinton Lytle to have a chance. Despite the 7-11
record, optimism reigns supreme on the Davidson team. Niebuhr mentions “maturity” and the “good attitude” of the squad. Bego refers
to “confidence” and “patience.” Apparently, the players believe in themselves and Coach Hussey, which bodes well for the future. But
Born puts it in perspective: “We're playing pretty well at this point. But we need some breaks.” And soon.

Rocky Kmiecik
