The Davidsonian
Volume LXXIV, Number 22
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, May 10, 1985

Federal Revenue Sharing Cuts
By TED WILSON

This spring Mayor Russell Knox appointed members to the Davidson Community Facilities Committee, which “makes recommendations about the [Davidson] Community
Center to the town,” according to Committee Chairman Randall Kincaid. Kincaid said the committee has broad representation; every group that
has any interest at all in the center has a representative on the Committee. Those represented include community groups such
as the Community Development Club, the College, the chairman of the Board, the county, and all staff and employees of
the center. He emphasized the meetings are entirely open “and there is no need for rumors” about the committee decisions.

Kincaid was one of the original founders of the ten-year-old community center, which is owned by the Mecklenburg County schools.
He said the problem with the center is “purely the building.” He added, “The program is in great shape” and
“everyone on the Town Board wants the program to continue and strengthen.” Though he said “the program is rich and
full and serves a lot of people,” he emphasized “nobody is satisfied with the facilities currently. Everyone has an agenda
about what to do with the facility.” He said, “the town is not satisfied with the cost of the utility
bill.” The users, he said, aren’t satisfied with the lack of handicap facilities, bathrooms for senior citizens, sufficient lighting, heating,
and plumbing. “It needs general sprucing up,” he added.

Pam Johnson, Community Center director, said “a new roof is badly needed on one building and needed on the others.”
She said, “We're talking about lots of children affected by the conditions. During the winter, the heat is at 75
degrees but it’s only reaching 60 degrees.” She said, “it [the roof] leaks when it rains hard.” She added it’s
hard to motivate children to attend school under those conditions.

Kincaid said, “the first thing the Committee did was [to examine] what programs and activities are going on so as
to get a better idea of the kinds of facilities we'd have if we had everything we wanted. We're still
collecting that data.” Second, he said the Committee focused on “the problem of loiterers in the area of the community
center. The chief of police of Davidson is handling it with great skill and sensitivity.” Third, he added, the Committee
is examining “the options for rehabilitating the facility. As a starting point, I proposed that we consider the proposal of
Phil Haas, chairman of the Mecklenburg County Agricultural Extension Service.” He explained that option would involve taking down the oldest
building of the Community Center and rehabilitating the cafeteria, the newer classroom building, and the gym. “The Committee didn’t take
a vote on it; we’re in the process of collecting data on the cost of pursuing that option,” he said.

Kincaid added, “that is only one option of many that the committee will likely consider. I don’t know what the
final recommendation will be from the committee but I hope and expect it to be a unanimous recommendation.” He said
the recommendation will go to the town of Davidson and Mecklenburg County who he hopes will share the cost. Kincaid
emphasized, “no proposal has been made to move the center from its present place. The committee [has] not discussed that
in any way.” Johnson said her role on the (continued on page 4)

Town Council Assesses Davidson Community Center
Davidson Committee Examines Community Center
By TED WILSON

The Board of Commissioners of the Town of Davidson voted 4-1 to publicly oppose further federal revenue sharing, in order
to help reduce the federal deficit. The Davidson community center receives money from Federal Revenue Sharing. On February 12, 1985,
Mayor Russell Knox wrote North Carolina Congressman J. Alex McMillan, “the Mayor and Board of Commissioners of the town of
Davidson, NC, go on record as opposed to further federal revenue sharing with local governments and in favor of the
elimination of all federal subsidies of every kind and nature from the federal budget.” Federal revenue-sharing means,According to Knox's letter,
“the Federal government, through grants, gives money to State and local governments to use as they please.” Knox's letter said
Davidson supports Reagan's effort to freeze Federal spending. He wrote: “This town of 3,384 will receive $33,850 this year from
the Federal government. They now say they don't want it anymore. I commend them all for showing the willingness to
do their share in reducing the Federal deficit.”

Randall Kincaid, a town commissioner, who voted against the proposal, said “it was a political statement by the Board of
Commissioners on the town of Davidson that said in the current federal fiscal crisis everyone must do their part, we
must do ours by seeing the revenue sharing terminated.” However, Kincaid said, “the town board is unanimous in saying that
if the revenue sharing [program] continues, we want our share.” He said Davidson will “never” turn back the money. He
did not speculate when Reagan will make a final decision on revenue sharing.

Kincaid said he voted against the proposal for three reasons. First, “I thought the word subsidy in the resolution is
undefined. It is vague, unclear, and unfortunate.” Second, “I wondered if we should involve the mayor in such a resolution,
but he had no vote.” Knox signed the resolution, but since the mayor votes only in the case of a
tie, he did not vote. Third, Kincaid said, “I wanted to include a statement that said in effect that the
resolution did not in any way call into question our commitment to the community center. The majority was unwilling to
debate those points except for the first and they had the votes to pass it as it stood.”

Kincaid said the Board's vote “should not have been a surprise.” The issue “was covered in the Mecklenburg Gazette and
the meetings are open.” He added, “Why didn't The Davidsonian cover it?” Kincaid said “the community center is partially funded
by revenue sharing.” If the program is dropped from the federal budget, “local funds [could] provide the balance,” he said.
He added, “I don’t speak for the five committee members, but I would vote for local funds if the revenue
sharing is cut off.” He said “the town has a lot of flexibility in its budget.” Because the population is
expanding, the town will receive more revenues. Both the property tax and revenue based on the population of the town
(such as beer and wine tax, ABC revenues, tangible tax, and franchise fees) will increase.

(continued on page 4)

Trustees Approve Football Move To Colonial League

By ANDY BARRON

The Davidson College Board of Trustees voted unanimously last Friday to affiliate its football program with the newly-formed Division I-AA
Colonial League. Play in the Colonial League will begin September 1987. Davidson will remain in the Southern Conference for the
1985 season. The status of the 1986 schedule is currently undetermined.

Davidson is the sixth team to join the Colonial League. The other participants are Bucknell, Colgate, Holy Cross, Lafayette, and
Lehigh. The Colonial League approached Davidson in January about the possibility of becoming the league’s sixth member.

The Trustees also voted to reaffirm Davidson's commitment to NCAA Division I participation in basketball and all other men’s varsity
sports. In accordance with this decision, the Board endorsed plans to raise $10 million to construct a new sports center
on campus. The Southern Conference is expected to decide whether or not Davidson will be allowed to remain in the
Southern Conference after next year. Alternative conferences for men’s varsity sports (excluding football) are being investigated.

The main motivation for joining the Colonial League is the new league’s commitment to offering only need-based aid to athletes.
Davidson has followed such a philosophy since 1974. In addition, Colonial League members will be able to schedule at least
three Ivy League opponents each year by the 1990 season.

“It enhances our efforts to continue to play Division I-AA well into the future and offers us the chance to
be associated with a group of very attractive Colonial and Ivy opponents,” said Athletic Director Christopher Morris. “We have played
a number of these teams on a regular basis during the past 15 years and now welcome the opportunity to
formalize this relationship.”
