Friday, May 3, 1985

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By STEVE MANK

The beauty of The Smiths' new LP, Meat is Murder, is actually a sort of anti-beauty. They are successful not in catering to the whims of the public at large, but in catering to their own (sometimes twisted) whims. The fact that they now top the college charts indicates that they’ve managed to twist the public’s whims as well.

Theirs is a music of contrasts, sharp contrasts. “The Joke Isn’t Funny Anymore” begins as a perfectly legitimate folk song with gently strummed guitar and smoothly crooned vocals, when in comes an insistent tom-tom roll that sounds more like the percussionist has some kind of nervous tick. A low psychedelic guitar wanders lazily through various Indian scales while lead vocalist/lyricist Morrissey’s plea for the ears of some unknown audience turns into a frightening sermon—“You should know times tide will smother you/And I will too.” And still the acoustic guitar strums on.

Each musician seems almost oblivious to the others. The drum may reverberate a thunderous beat, while the bass pretends it’s a guitar sans rhythm, while the guitar becomes something different altogether. All this comes together in a beautiful combination, where a hideous clash is expected. The clash does come, however, with the addition of the vocals. Sure, Morrissey sings with a beautiful, lilting voice, but he’s flat—always. In addition, his lyrics are ominous, mysterious, and at times even preachy. But his voice is a sort of safeguard: those who do not like his singing surely will not be open to what he is singing.

“What She Said” pounds at the eardrums with otherworldly distortion while Morrissey passionately (if droningly) cries some of the darkest images to hit the British top ten. Who would ever suspect that what “she” said was “I smoke ’cos I'm hoping for an/early death/AND I NEED TO CLING TO SOMETHING.”

Morrissey’s songs are quite visual. Considering his past, that’s not at all surprising. In the sixties, film director Paul Morrissey was a member of the underground fold begun by Andy Warhol. Here he was exposed to the world of drag queens, heroin, and whores as he had never seen before. Here also he came into contact with Lou Reed, creator of rock and roll’s most depressing album Berlin, to which Meat is Murder comes not even close.

At times, Morrissey’s lyrics tend towards the naive or even the pretentious, but they’re always well-crafted. In “Barbarism Begins At Home,” The Smiths' explanation of the effects of child abuse, Morrissey uses repetition in ways the Kingsmen (“Louie, Louie”) would not even have dreamed of. The tone of the words is decidedly prosaic and narrative but for the insertion of a smattering of unique and unlikely rhymes every now and again.

At times, The Smiths become hilariously, and embarrassingly shocking. On “Nowhere Fast” Morrissey reveals “I'd like to drop my trousers to the Queen/every sensible child will know what I mean.” All the while Morrissey bares his, ah-soul to the world, the musicians dabble in funk/heavy metal, rockabilly and in one song they even sound almost like a live recording of the Grateful Dead.

Smiths Are Successfully Self-Indulgent

But even when strains of other musical styles ring through, The Smiths are always quite Smiths. As the swell of heavy machinery and bovine lowing creeps into the threshold of hearing, the band begins to beat and thrash their ways through the harrowing, final, title cut. However confident one is of the legitimacy of one’s own carnivorousness, lines like “and the calf that you carve with a smile isMURDER," inevitably brings on waves of guilt. For a band that dedicates the subject of most every song to death, The Smiths manage to retain a modicum of joyousness. True, their lyrics are not overly happy, but such overwhelming sorrow seems to imply a degree of irony. After all, why would anyone want to preserve some of one’s most depressing times on record if there was no hope for recovery? If Morrissey is rich at all, it is these sad times that made him that way. Besides that, contrasts are such an important part of The Smiths’ music that there must surely be an alternative to the sadness hidden deep within each song.

Two Classy Films Highlight Weekend Entertainment
By MATT MORRIS

If you're thinking about going to the beach this weekend, think again—Chinatown, Roman Polanski’s sly, complex detective thriller, and Ingmar Bergman’s Wild Strawberries will be shown in Love on Friday and Saturday respectively, and the two classy acts should be enough to seduce any culturally-minded Davidson student away from the “pleasures” of the south’s modern-day Babylon, Myrtle Beach.

At the same time a spoof and a darned good mystery, Chinatown remains genius/sexual molester Polanski’s most accessible film. The plot, an intimate, twisting tale of “the mysteries of Los Angeles,” follows the efforts of detective Jack Nicholson (doing a beautiful impersonation of himself impersonating Bogey) as he attempts to solve a puzzle involving the likes of Faye Dunaway and big bad John Huston. Alas, dear reader, to reveal any more of the details would only spoil (and confuse) your tormented mind. All that need be said here is that Polanski brilliantly keeps the story rolling along (clocking in at over two hours, Chinatown is never boring) and manages to create a great sense of film noir in 1975 terms.

On the less jovial (but equally intriguing) side is Saturday’s presentation of Wild Strawberries. Anyone interested in an example of filmmaking at its finest or just good entertainment should follow patiently the abstract, dream-like tale of Dr. Borg (Victor Sjostrom), a man who, like many of Bergman’s characters, approaches death without really knowing what it is to be alive. Through a series of interminable subjective sequences, Borg’s entire life, from cold academician to romantic lover, is played out to him and the result is uplifting—Borg, before his death, manages to come into touch with basic human feeling, something his years of teaching science had left out. Of all Bergman’s movies, Wild Strawberries comes closest to being a “down-to-earth” film and it’s a cinematic experience that anyone can gain from. Through montage and set-design that recalls the German Expressionists of the 1920s, Bergman photographs scenes that will make your jaw drop and your mind wander. Don’t miss either of these very special films—the beach was never so good.

WANTED: RIDING MASTER for summer resident camp, 23 horses and program for 120 campers, 21-plus, must have extensive

BUFFET —ALL YOU CAN EAT—
Mooresville’s First And Finest Italian Restaurant
KING Of PIZZA
Sunday 12 Noon til 9:00 P.M.
241 SOUTH BROAD STREET—MOORESVILLE
Tues., Wed. & Thurs. 5 P.M. til 9 P.M.
663-3030

Meal Includes:
SPAGHETTI 100% Durham Wheat
OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE
FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD
PARMESAN-ROMANO CHEESE
SALAD BAR 45 Items
FRESH GREEN VEGETABLES
DELICIOUS FRUITS
FLAVORFUL MEATS
RICH DRESSINGS
TASTY CHEESES
WINE CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE
DESSERT-TEMPTING HAWAIIAN SALAD

PIZZA
Still Mooresville's Finest
SPICY PEPPERONI
CANADIAN BACON
ITALIAN SAUSAGE
GROUND BEEF
FRESH DICED GREEN PEPPERS
SWEET ONIONS

SOUP OF THE DAY
CREAM OF POTATO
VEGETABLE BEEF STOCK
CHICKEN NOODLE
CHILI CON CARNE