8 — Who's On First? Friday, March 22, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

==

Spring Prospects Hopeful For Davidson Athletics

By ANDY BARRON

The beginning of spring term is a tough time to realize you are sports editor of The Davidsonian. If you don’t believe me, ask Steve Byers. Spring training and NCAA basketball don’t leave much time for writing columns, or doing any class work for that matter. Yet this spring holds a lot of promise for Davidson athletics. The women’s tennis team defends their national championship, the men’s tennis team looks strong, and the baseball team has some pitchers to complement a brimming arsenal of sluggers. Yes, it should be a good term to be a Wildcat.

Before mentioning the hopes of the future, I want to extend my congratulations to last term's overachievers. After being told they would finish last in the Southern Conference basketball title hunt, Davidson proceeded to play hard in every game and surprise a lot of people. Too many close losses placed Davidson seventh in the conference race. With everyone returning, next year seems promising. On the individual level, freshman Derek Rucker made second team all-conference and was runner-up in freshman of the year voting. Jeff Himes joined Rucker on the all-freshmen team.

Davidson wrestling captain Mike Keeley deserves recognition for his accomplishments this winter. The 158-pound senior finished second in the NAIA District 26 tournament. Keeley was 14-9 for the year, including winning the Washington and Lee tournament, and was eliminated in the Southern Conference by the eventual winner in his class.

Congratulations to all winter term IMAC champions. KA’s Supreme Court successfully defended their men's A-league championship and the “Ubbies” ended up on top of the B-league pile. BEP&F won the women’s league crown. For a more detailed account see the article by IMAC aficionados Hunter Gourley and Steve Byers. The street hockey crown went to the End of the World. The guys from Grey House beat the Irresistible Force 5-3 in the championship game.

I shall now be presumptuous and name the All-League team for street hockey. The envelope please! (Just imagine the drumroll!) From End of the World: senior Mike Lufkin and juniors Sedge Gray and Tom Ghirardelli. From the Irresistible Force: Pete Burr, sophomore Rich Link, and freshman Josh Buddle. Last, but not least, junior Chip Craig and sophomore Emil Cekada from the Immovable Object. Any objection to these selections should be reconsidered.

Tennis

The biggest story this spring remains the women’s tennis team’s defense of their 1984 NCAA Division III national championship. Davidson was ranked number one in the pre-season poll. In addition, junior Caroline Barclay was given pre-season All-American honors. Be sure to come watch the Lady Cats play this season. After all, they are defending the only national championship Davidson has ever won.

This should also be a good spring for the men’s tennis team. Davidson features three freshmen in the six single positions. Though that makes for a young squad, talent and effort exist in abundance. In junior Sedge Gray and sophomore Hayes Dallas, Davidson has two excellent singles players. As coach Jeff Frank said, “Sedge can play on the same level as the top players in the nation.” Go out and catch some quality tennis this spring at Davidson; it’s your school and it’s free.

Baseball

If you are out in the neighborhood of Knox dorm and you hear a metallic crack followed by a roar of human approval, you may have just missed a home run by one of the Davidson baseball team’s many sluggers. Home runs were not common last year; but with freshmen Bill Masse, Alan Lewis, and Terry Rupp joining sophomore David Turgeon and junior Scott Weaver, the ball boys should expect to spend a lot of time in the pine trees searching for home run balls. Add this year’s increase in pitching talent and it isn’t difficult to understand the baseball team’s enthusiasm this year.

Basketball

What would a spring sports column be without NCAA basketball predictions?As I write, only sixteen teams survive. In a daring move, I picked Georgetown to win it all, and they have yet to be eliminated. However, anyone who knows my prediction proficiency already realizes that since I predicted Georgetown would win, they won’t. For those of you who won’t be able to watch the games this weekend, here’s what will happen.

In the East region, Georgetown will allow Loyola to get close late in the game before blowing them away. As for Illinois-Georgia Tech, I hate to tell all the Atlanta folks, but Illinois suddenly remembered they were a top-five team back at the beginning of the season. So long, Georgia Tech. Georgetown will make their third appearance in the last four years at the Final Four after teaching Illinois a big lesson. By the way, the East region had no upsets in the first two rounds. Imagine that!

My only feelings in the Southeast region are who cares since Kansas lost. I guess the scant numbers of UNC fans on this campus do care. UNC plays Auburn, a team that reminds me of the Georgia team that went to the Final Four two years ago. Georgia beat UNC that year, and Auburn will do the same this year. For some reason, I think Maryland will beat Villanova and then strike the midnight hour on Auburn’s Cinderella story. I’m sure someone will let me know if UNC happens to win.

Memphis State will win the Midwest region. Why? Because the guys from Elvis-land have won so far without much help from All-American Keith Lee. Besides, I hate Oklahoma and would rather see anybody win the region than the Sooners. Memphis State will nip Boston College, and Oklahoma will halt all deliveries by Louisiana Tech star Karl (The Mailman) Malone to set up a meeting between two teams Kansas beat. (Yes, I am bitter!) Oklahoma All-American Wayman Tisdale will find himself between two Memphis State trees (the 6-10 Lee and 7-0 William Bradford) and unable to propel Oklahoma to the Final Four.

How is Kentucky still in the NCAA tournament? Actually, how did they get in the NCAA tournament? If anyone knows the answers to these questions, please get in touch with me as soon as possible. Not that it matters; St. John’s will ground Kenny (Sky) Walker and play Alabama in the regional finals. Alabama has played well recently, rebounds well, and will beat N.C. State. I’m not as confident about this pick as my other prediction concerning the battle of the NASCAR states (UNC vs. Auburn), but I'll be gutsy. Once again, St. John’s will make that question irrelevant by beating whoever wins and representing the West region in the Final Four.

Well, that’s how the weekend will go. Georgetown, St. John’s, Memphis State, and Maryland get my nod to travel to Lexington, Kentucky, to decide who is the best team in college basketball. Next week, we'll see how well I did and list championship predictions from faculty and students. If you have a prediction, get in touch with me and get your name in the paper.

Wake Forest University offers a full-time, two-year MBA program unusually personal in its approach to graduate education. The School emphasizes a close student-faculty atmosphere. The general management curriculum is composed of a highly integrated series of classes and experiences complemented by frequent contact with the local business community. Charles H. Babcock Fellowships and Grants, as well as graduate assistantships, are available to qualified students. Participants come from a variety of backgrounds, and applications are welcome from students in all majors. The schedule at the Babcock School is intense, the work is challenging, standards are high, and the experience is rewarding. In order to receive more information, simply return the attached coupon or call (919) 761-5422.

Babcock Graduate School of Management
7659 Reynolda Station
Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27109

Please send me additional information on your resident MBA program.

Name
Address
City
State
Zip