14 Friday, January 18, 1985 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor  
Kevin Horan, Business Manager  
John Gathings, Production Manager  
Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor  
David Van Pelt, News Editor  
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor  
Steve Byers, Sports Editor  
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor  
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor  
Will Thomason, Advertising Manager  
David McCurry, Circulation Manager  

The Court

Yet again, Patterson Court is in the news. Old controversies die hard; with each year this one seems to take on another aspect. This year, Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity wants to return to the court and occupy a house, but continue to eat in the Commons. The other houses on the court would welcome the fraternity back — if only it would operate its own eating facilities. The CCRL is left to resolve this dispute, or at least recommend a solution to President Kuykendall. That august body must decide in favor of SPE or the PCC, or hack out some new compromise as if Patterson Court has not been compromised enough already.

What’s more, the CCRL must make this decision without a consistent, much less coherent, social system policy as a framework. What passes for policy now is merely the laudable charade called self-selection, a dogma doomed from day one for a number of reasons, not the least of which was and is dishonesty. The decision the CCRL faces now will set a policy for the Court, but only a partial policy. It can, to be sure, add a new option to social life here. But it will not say anything about the co-ed houses, on which the sun appears to be setting, or the fraternities, to which self-selection often means selecting their members themselves.

The arguments on both sides are strong. SPE says that the nature of the court is changing, that students need the other option. They are right. Of course, fraternity members have a more utilitarian but less often stated argument: come June a man with a badge and a gun will put them out on the street. Given new zoning rules in town, relocation is unrealistic (despite the dreams of some); to find adequate zoning the fraternity would have to move over a mile outside of town.

The PCC argues, on the other hand, that a balance of options on the Court already exists and SPE’s return as a social house would only jeopardize that balance. What this really means is that PCC members — house presidents and treasurers — fear the competition an increasingly popular fraternity, with a handsome stipend for the sale of its old house and open season on Commons freshmen, would create. Another PCC argument against social fraternities is that problems could easily arise in the Commons when the time comes for oral encouragement, making self-selection enforcement harder. This is kind of silly, since distinctions in the system are already too warped and inconsistent to be of any real use, except on the rare occasion when a freshman has the nerve to complain.

The CCRL should let SPE do what it proposes, and this week’s vote indicates it probably will. The Patterson Court system will require a massive overhaul in the near future, anyway. For now, the CCRL might as well admit that so many policies operate on the court, one more won’t matter.

Ross Holt, Editor

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held.by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Ted Wilson, Assistant News Editor; Richard Cloudt, Andrea Diedrich, Chris Fisher, Roxanna Guilford, Tom Schilling, Chandon Sinlia, Lee White, Allison Wills, Chris Hughes, Jill Boyette

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Craig Detweiler, Thurston Hatcher, Stephen Mank, Ann Meador, Matt Morris, Samuel Scott, Treeby Williams

Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Assistant Sports Editor; Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley

Photography Staff: Christian Harberts, Assistant Photography Editor; Brad Brechtelsbauer, Jill Boyette, Phillip Dennis, Kevin Horan, Warriner Inge, Rocky Kmiecik, Bruce von Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Joanneke Brentjens, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Brooke Knight, Pauline Rhodes

Compositors: Anne Lambert, Lisa Lano, Martha Yeide

Je Haine! Je t'aime! Frangas mon amour! ~ Frank! You forgot to (a)

Letters To the Editors:

I agree that rape, of any sort, is an unpardonable atrocity. But, the generalization which you make in “Cry RAPE” (The Davidsonian, Jan 11) is inexcusable. Membership in a fraternity does not mean that an individual “must achieve sexual conquests.” While members of the student body are guilty of this behavior, their affiliation with any group is not the cause. You would not have to look far or hard to find individuals fitting your description in other groups on campus, but to implicate fraternities as the cause of the problem is a gross error. Fraternities are not evil agencies; they are groups of young men joined together by common interests and goals. Their members do community service projects, field athletic teams, sponsor parties, share comradeship and help each other through bad times. I believe an apology is in order.

Russell Bitter
Member, Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity

Editor’s note: We did not intend to imply that all fraternities promote the attitude in question, nor did we point to fraternities as its cause. We noted, however, that the attitude exists here, especially in some fraternities. We believe our statement was accurate, and we stand by our editorial.

Surveys

To the Editors:

The 1984-85 Self-Study Student Committee would like to request that those students who have received Self-Study Surveys complete them and return them to the committee. Students may either return them to the students who asked them to complete the surveys, or turn them in at the SGA office on the third floor of the College Union. It is essential that we receive these surveys back in order to ensure that our data results will be of use to the college for the years to come. We thank you for your assistance and cooperation in this matter.

John Laughlin
Elizabeth Brooks
Co-chairs, Self-Study Student Committee

APO Service

To the Editors:

Registration for the spring term is upon us as evidenced by the envelopes circulated to the dorms last week. I want students generally to know that the service provided by Alpha Phi Omega (APO) in delivering envelopes is a significant benefit to both students and our office. Doing this has been a continuing project of APO three times a year for about 11 years. So, let’s all say “many thanks” to President Elena Paul and the APO members.

Richard C. Burts, Jr.

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere to these four guidelines:
1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2) We require that letters be neatly typed.
3) We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.
4) We reserve the right not to print letters that:
   a) function as advertisements;
   b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes;
   c) represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed on the same topic.