10 Friday, November 1, 1985

THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor
Brooke Knight, Executive Editor
Kevin Horan, Associate Editor
Kim Crabtree, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Bill Bugg, Features Editor
Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Richard Tankard, Photography Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager
David Maynard, Circulation Manager
Ann Roddey, Production Editor

Statement of Purpose

The recent visit of Dr. Roger Woods to Davidson has prompted questions concerning the College’s Statement of Purpose. Woods is
a Presbyterian church official studying the relationships between Presbyterian colleges and the church itself. The Statement of Purpose is, in
writing, the ideals of the College: what it ought to be and the goals for which it should strive. Woods
had some problems with the statement and so do we. His main contentions concern the wording of the statement. He
said the biggest problem was “with clarity.” He said there were “a lot of things mixed up together all in
the same paragraph.”

Our problems with it are on a deeper level. Upon reading the statement, questions arise in one’s mind: Is Davidson
following its Statement of Purpose? Should the Statement be changed so that it is current enough for the College to
follow it? The answer to the first question is no; the answer to the second is yes.

For Davidson to follow the statement, all members of the community (trustees, faculty, administration, friends, and students) must follow it.
It reads: “Davidson recognizes God as the source of all truth. As a college committed to the historic Christian faith,
it sees Jesus Christ as the central fact of history, giving purpose, order, and value to the whole life.” A
little over twenty years ago, the trustees tried to follow these sentences exactly. A news release dated October 16, 1964
states: “Davidson College trustees amended the by-laws of the College to require all its faculty to indicate belief in Evangelical
Christianity in writing.” This amendment met with very strong opposition and was never enacted. If the same thing were tried
today, it would be laughed at.

If it is impossible to follow the Statement of Purpose exactly, then it should not stand as an ideological goal
which can never be achieved. Realizing that a goal cannot be accomplished induces a defeatist attitude, hence nullifying the purpose
of the Statement.

We demonstrated above that the Statement should be changed. Some may ask in what ways the Statement should be changed.
If the Statement is watered down to the point where it does not mention the Church or God at all,
then it is essentially breaking ties with the Church, and in doing so, losing a part of its history. It
might be sufficient for the statement to say that the College has strong ties to the Church through its history,
administration, faculty, and students.

Certain parts of the Statement, however, are very useful. Some sections of the Statement contain worthwhile goals which the College
is close to realizing: “In implementing its purpose to promote higher learning, Davidson has chosen to be a college, to
maintain itself as a small community of learners, to emphasize the teaching responsibility of all professors, and to ensure the
opportunity for personal relationships between students and teachers.”

We agree with Woods in his comment that Davidson is a “healthy institution.” A clear, concise and realistic Statement of
Purpose would make the college an even healthier institution.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of
the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates.
Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell,Andy Balf, Laura Batten, Jim Dillon, Keith Finch, Andrea Gross, Heidi Hooker, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, David
Williams

Features Staff: Laura Ballenger, Martha Johnson, Matt Morris

Sports Staff: Edwin Page, assistant sports editor; Mike Adams, Rand Hartsell

Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Beth Drummond, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, David Petranick, John Reuter, Sarah Smith

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Kim Nikles

Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Kristin Galloway, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen Keely, Kara Kooken, Kris Kost, Beth Parker, Kim Robertson,
Margaret White, Ben Yarborough

Compositors: Doug Kim, Ann Roddey, David Soud, Sara Strachan, Laure Van Dierdonck

Letters

Task Force

To the Editor:

In Dr. Kuykendall’s first few weeks as the new President of Davidson College, he set in motion a process which
will have great significance in the future of this institution. Following up on faculty, administrative, and student initiative of the
previous year, Dr. Kuykendall put together the Task Force on Racial/Ethnic Concerns. The Task Force was comprised of five students,
four faculty members, four administrators, four trustees, and four alumni, and chaired by Dr. John Griffith (Vice President for Development)
and Dr. Bruce Jackson of the math department. The purpose of the Task Force was to study Davidson College’s history
with respect to minority students, faculty, staff, etc., and to recommend strategies which might help the school become more responsive
to the needs of minorities in higher education. While the discussion focused in particular on the black presence at Davidson,
it was fully acknowledged that any suggestions could be applicable to other minorities as well.

After several months of deliberations, the Task Force published an 80-page report of its findings and conclusions. The results were
sometimes discouraging, sometimes gratifying, and sometimes promising. It was discovered that, in the face of ever-increasing competition at the national
level, Davidson College is not very likely to attract minority students and professors. Davidson is a small rural town and
perhaps does not have the type of social and cultural diversity for which these sought individuals would be looking. It
was also discovered that Davidson is not doing so poorly in comparison with other liberal arts colleges of our caliber.
In fact, we are doing better than most; this is the encouraging aspect. The promising part of the report was
the discovery that Davidson College has many resources at its disposal which have not yet been tapped.

The Board of Trustees accepted the Task Force’s report, adopting a policy statement which outlines a new positive direction for
the future of Davidson College. The Board allocated money and granted authority to the Administration to follow through on the
proposed strategies. Responsibility now lies with Dr. Kuykendall, the Admissions Office, the Dean’s Office, the faculty, and the student body
to ensure that progress is made toward a new Davidson, a Davidson which is racially diverse and racially aware.

This coming Wednesday, November 6th, we will have a valuable opportunity to find out exactly the steps that have already
been taken, as well as the steps that are still being planned, to implement the very progressive strategies proposed by
the Task Force on Racial/Ethnic Concerns. Wednesday night in the 900 Room at 7:30, the RACE (Racial Attitudes Concerning Everyone)
Committee will sponsor a panel discussion to address these issues. Panel members will be: President John Kuykendall, Vice President for
Development John Griffith, Acting Dean of Admissions Gardner Roller Ligo, and Assistant Dean of Admissions Paula Moore Miller. These individuals
will describe briefly what they or their offices are doing and will be prepared to answer any questions which you
may have.

For those who have not seen or do not remember what the Task Force proposed, and would like to see
and/or to remember, copies of the Task Force report are on reserve in the library and will be available at
the front desk of the Union. Students, professors, staff, and administrators, take advantage of this opportunity to find out about
the future of Davidson College.

Thank You,
Andrew Yon
