Arts & Entertainment

'Night Mother' Explores Mother/Daughter Relations

By LIZ RELYEA

'Night Mother,' by Marsha Norman, is a fascinating character study of two women. Thelma Cates, played by senior Alva Moore,
is in her late fifties. She is a strong character who holds that things are what she says they are.
Her daughter Jessie is played by sophomore Meitra Khazaeli. Jessie is in her late thirties. She suffers from epilepsy but,
in the past year, with the aid of phenobarbital, she has been free from seizures. She has gained control of
her mind and body, and she is determined to hold on to that control. To maintain this control, Jessie has
decided to commit suicide. This act will be the one thing she has done for herself independent of all others.

The action of the play centers around Jessie's suicide wish. Mother and daughter discuss Jessie's impending suicide as if Jessie
were going on a trip. Jessie has provided for her mother. She has ordered groceries and made preparations so that
Thelma will be able to care for herself. During periods of more frequent seizures, Jessie was forced to make lists
so that she could remember what she needed to do and where things around the house were kept. She has
made these same lists for her mother.

Jessie's desperation stems from the inability she has to control her own life. Thelma’s anguish is centered around Jessie’s epilepsy.
Thelma denies all responsibility for her daughter’s condition, blaming it on Jessie’s father. Thelma feels guilty about her daughter’s epilepsy,
so she overprotects Jessie. Everything has always been provided for Jessie. Thelma even introduced Jessie to her ex-husband. During her
final moments with her mother, Jessie discovers that her life has been much more controlled than she realized. Thelma had
masked Jessie’s childhood seizures under the guise of clumsiness. Jessie's husband Cecil was the first to get Jessie’s seizures diagnosed
by a doctor. After a horseback-riding accident, Jessie’s seizures became more severe. Thelma blames Cecil for this accident as well
as the dissolution of her daughter's marriage, but Jessie sees it as another example of her inability to control her
life. “It was his [Cecil's] idea that I could do anything if I just made up my mind to. I
fell off the horse because I didn’t know how to hold on. Cecil left for pretty much the same reason.”

'Night Mother' is being directed by senior English major Jenny Cooper. Cooper has directed two other plays at Davidson. The
first was the workshop one-act, 'Thymus Vulgaris.' The second was this year’s children’s play, 'Henry Mouse.' Cooper says she chose
to do 'Night Mother' because, “I'm, for obvious reasons, interested in plays centered around women.” Cooper hopes to go into
directing professionally.

The play is currently in the process of being blocked. Blocking is generally a slow and painful process for both
actors and director. The stage has yet to be built, and there are no props to work with. The director
must be able to conceptualize the finished product. Cooper encourages input from her two actors. When allowed to move in
accordance to their lines, actors are much more natural in their performance. Moore and Khazaeli have worked together previously in
this year’s one-act play 'Tell Me Another Story, Sing Me Another Song.' In 'Night Mother,' their mother-daughter roles are reversed.
The three women work together exceptionally well. Moore and Khazaeli reveal the frustration and anguish of their characters, as well
as the love they share for each other. 'Night Mother' is a very intense play. The emotional level is quite
strong, but the actors carry it off successfully. It will be presented in the 900 Room on Wednesday, May 8,
and Thursday, May 9.

Peggy Pierotti

Existential Pathos In The Punch-Drunk Clerisy

Introducing . . .

Few encounters raise one’s complexion to full blush as introductions do. Perhaps that’s why I forgot last week to introduce
myself and “Punch-Drunk.” While one-time, mild-mannered 'More or Less' columnist Ann Meador is in France visiting art shrines and otherwise
having a “great spring term,” I am 'The Davidsonian’s' new weekly, if that often, columnist.

By DAVID McGEE

Being the co-editor emeritus of 'The Davidsonian' that I am, I want so much, for a change, to write about
those things I care deeply about. You probably — no, make that might — recognize my name from the by-lines
on all those front-page stories whose relevance somehow didn’t quite take your eyes beyond the first two paragraphs. My forgiveness
flows out just as the column inches on R.A.C.E. meetings...and reports, editorials, news analyses, the new and improved president, athletics,
Sigma Phi Epsilon’s return to Patterson Court, and substance abuse on campus did for a year and a half from
my pen. So let's get to the important stuff! But why “Punch-Drunk?” One need go no further than A Browser's
Dictionary, by John Ciardi, (New York: Harper & Row, Publishers, 1980, p. 318). Ciardi's definition of punch-drunk reads: “Dazed, incoherent,
clumsy. [Commonly said of prize fighters who have lost too many fights, the condition being usually attributed to repeated heavy
blows to the head with resultant damage to small blood vessels and causing small cerebral clots and impaired flow of
oxygen to the brain.] “Hemingway, however, in Death in the Afternoon, insists that the condition is due to syphilis: ‘Boxers,
bull fighters, and soldiers contract syphilis for the reasons that make them choose their professions. In boxing most sudden reversals
of form, the majority of cases of “walking heels,” are products of syphilis. You cannot name the individuals in a
book because it is libelous, but anyone of the profession will tell you of a dozen recent cases.’” As you
can see, “Punch-Drunk” can mean many things. Sadly, however, not among any construed definitions of “Punch-Drunk” should fall my sex
life. All credit, though, is due to Ross Holt, another co-editor emeritus, who found “Punch-Drunk” in A Browser’s Dictionary just
before deadline last week. As for myself, the name calls up visions of a typical Patterson Court party where a
luscious drink known as “grain punch” is served. Down a couple of glasses of that stuff, and you won't need
matches to light your cigarettes. Usually, some innocent soul empties another pint of Everclear in the vat every half hour
or so—without compensating the brew with an equal amount of Kool-Aid. The result, depending on what you had for dinner,
is, that’s right, “Punch-Drunk.” Well, that’s the introduction (Wheww!)—nice meeting you.

Carpe Lupam

For several minutes at Tom Wolfe's lecture a week ago Tuesday, all of Davidson tacitly assumed everyone in the room
unquestionably belonged to what Wolfe called the “clerisy,” society’s well-educated, intelligent elite. He told us what the clerisy was—and that
he did well! But he didn’t bother mentioning who, specifically those here at Davidson, can rightly claim that they stand
in the same station with this country’s clerisy. Tom, Tom, Tom! You let us down! We wanted names! Now Wolfe
couldn't very well have started pointing out who is, and more importantly who isn’t, a card-carrying member of the clerisy,
could he? But that’s the beauty of it! How baffling! Everyone at the speech had his or her academic back
against the wall. If you concluded, “Of course I'm in the clerisy, I have a Ph.D. (don’t bother asking in
WHAT!)—that still counts for something these days, 'ya know.” then Wolfe's speech was “one of the most profound lectures I’ve
ever heard at Davidson.” Or instead, if you fessed up and admitted that the clerisy, when you applied, just laughed
and sent back your resumé, well, Wolfe's talk was “a bad humanities lecture.” Once everyone had things straight with themselves,
they began looking around Love Auditorium. “Oh, the artsy-fartsy crowd from Charlotte, who are they kidding, anyway?” And what of
that non-tenure track professor who rarely appears in anything but tennis shoes and ten-year-old fraternity sportswear? Who had the gall
to trash Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T.C. Price Zimmermann’s yard with toilet paper and shaving
cream and who thinks Chambers lawn is just another classroom? Is he (or she) clerisy? Of course not! Others were
more desperate to prove that they belong. When Wolfe met with about 20 of Davidson's best and brightest at the
Center Wednesday, there were so many names dropped that I’m surprised no one stepped on any on their way out
the door. A typical question asked of Wolfe went as follows: “Do you think the existential pathos you touched on
in The Painted Word (right around p. 63 paragraph three) compares to, say, an early John Irving, or an aged
and empty William Faulkner?” Well, what was really being asked was: “I’m in the clerisy, aren’t I?” Yet, there are
some here at Davidson who just got their ticket into the clerisy, but they had to pay $58 to do
it (and keep a 3.6 or better G.P.A. while in school here). The 43 brand new Phi Beta Kappa members
certainly can rightly stand in the winners’ circle of that lustrous clerisy, can't they? Well, can they? “I’m in the
clerisy, aren’t I?” And how about all those economics majors who read maybe one good novel a year? Are they
clerisy? Who knows if anybody is!
