2 text of the early 20th century, the time in which he wrote. The program includes Twain's early “tall tales,” his anecdotes and sketches, and his pieces of wisdom on “The Human Condition.” Tickets are on sale in the ticket office daily from 2-5; the cost is $3 for students and $5 for the general public.

News Summary

Twain impersonator to perform next Tuesday

Roger Durrett, playwright, director, and dramatist, will perform his one-man show, “An Evening With Mark Twain,” Tuesday, November 12 at 8:15 p.m. in Love Auditorium. Durrett, whose personal interest in Twain has led to extensive research into the author’s life, has been performing as Twain across America for seven years. Billed as a “Step Into History,” the show presents Twain in the context of the early 20th century, the time in which he wrote. The program includes Twain's early “tall tales,” his anecdotes and sketches, and his pieces of wisdom on “The Human Condition.” Tickets are on sale in the ticket office daily from 2-5; the cost is $3 for students and $5 for the general public.

By HEIDI HOOKER

Davidson's College Bowl Team placed third out of the ten schools competing in the Berry College Early Bird Invitational Tournament for the southeastern division of colleges. This round-robin tournament, held last weekend in Rome, Ga., was their first varsity competition of the school year. Davidson competed with Florida State, Auburn, Georgia Tech, Emory, Agnes Scott, and Dalton. Emory placed first and Georgia Tech followed in second. Davidson played more than nine games total: four games Friday night and five on Saturday morning and afternoon. Davidson managed to pull ahead after losing its first three games and won the final six matches, which placed them in third. Several members of the team were given all-star bids. Members competing included team captain Sara Beasley, Mark Chen, Jeff Gregory, and Edwin Page. This year’s team is young. The tournament was the first varsity-level competition for all members except Beasley. Their coach, German Professor Hansford Epes, was pleased with the team’s success despite its inexperience. Beasley was enthusiastic and optimistic about the team’s progress. She commented that the Davidson team had always been commended for its sportsmanship and friendliness. The tournament director congratulated the members before leaving, saying, “Davidson, as always, you've got class.” Beasley evaluated the experience as very energizing in an “electric atmosphere” while at the same time tiring and “marathon-like.” She emphasized that college bowl is not based on trivial pursuits but on college classroom information such as student knowledge in the fields of literature, science, math, history, sports, and current events. Each school makes up a set of questions for matches between other schools. The challenge of College Bowl, in her opinion, is “switching gears quickly” from subject to subject and being the fastest to buzz. The next College Bowl Tournament will be held in January or February. The Regional Tournament in which the southeastern schools compete to qualify for the nationals will be held at the University of Virginia in mid-February.

Friday, November 8, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

SGA prepares for annual phonathon

The Student Government Association will conduct its annual phonathon Dec. 3-11 to raise money for the Living Endowment. Phonathon student co-chairman Mark Sandy said the project involves calling alumni and other people associated with the college in an effort to raise money for the Living Endowment. “Essentially, students’ tuition only meets 51 percent of the college’s operating costs and the Living Endowment helps make up a fair amount of the difference,” he said. According to Sandy, the Phonathon does not set monetary goals because its purpose is to reach people without the opportunity to give in any other way. The phoning will be carried out by more than 350 members of eating houses and fraternities. “Freshmen are welcome to participate on any night; all they have to do is give me a call at -8626,” he said.

Material contributed by Andrea Gross

Stress: What it is and how to deal with it

David Staton

This article is the second in a series of monthly articles to be provided by the Student Counseling Service. Appointments or inquiries may be made at Extension 130.

It’s late in the second set, and John McEnroe’s game has started to slump. The TV commentator observes that his play lacks the competitive edge. Down on the court, the ballboy hears John begin taking himself to task: “Ridiculous! That serve was ludicrous, you hack!” A minute later, McEnroe singles out a photographer and belligerently demands that she follow rules or be expelled. And shortly thereafter, he angrily challenges the linesman on a call few spectators found all that close. Some fans laugh at these antics, and others boo; but all soon notice significant improvement in McEnroe’s play thereafter. Your advantage, Mr. McEnroe...

Some of the fans realize that there is another game besides tennis on the court. More than mere tantruming, John McEnroe’s behavior is a gambit to win from his own mind/body a prize: the stress response. His tennis game needs something, and the stress response provides it. As he develops his anger, his body prepares for “flight or fight,” a genetically built-in strategy to ensure survival in a physical emergency. Mr. McEnroe has learned to create his own “emergencies.”

The stress response is indeed a strategy — one with both advantages and disadvantages, depending upon the situation. In a physical emergency, it is extremely effective. The body dumps catecholamines — adrenalin and noradrenalin — and cortisone into the bloodstream, triggering numerous survival-oriented changes. Heart rate climbs irregularly, blood pressure rises. Perspiration increases. Changes in kidney functioning further increase blood pressure. Changes in the blood increase its clotting potential. Liver function is altered, as blood sugar levels rise. Digestion slows as skeletal muscles are toned and given increased blood supply. Verbal, sequential reflective thinking shuts down in favor of intuitive, reactive attention to the environment, as the senses are heightened and scanning sensory data flood awareness.These are just the right shifts in functioning to win a fight or flee a predator or even win a tennis match. What situations render the stress response disadvantageous? They are especially those in which the task or emergency is only anticipated rather than current, those in which the problem or task is chronic rather than emergent, and those which call for cognitive skills rather than physical strength (i.e., deliberate use of memory, logic, and communication skills). With small reflection, you might realize that these are precisely the characteristics of the academic side of “the Davidson experience,” especially as the term winds down, papers become due, and exams loom just ahead. The typical Davidson student, shielded by his or her youthful health, might little notice the negative effects of chronic stress response. Other than noting a sense of academic “pressure” and perhaps a tension headache or mild insomnia, the student may be largely unaware that chronic stress is creating problems. Chronic evoking of the stress response as described above can lead to difficulties with high blood pressure, increased diabetic risk, and digestive problems (colitis, ulcers). Changes in blood chemistry also can lead to poor use of calcium and osteoporosis in later years. And small tears in the artery walls which occur during the stress response lead to tiny scars which both reduce elasticity and create the primary sites for the accumulation of arterial fats which can ultimately block blood flow to the heart, brain, or any other body parts. These effects may take a decade or two to become pronounced enough to be observed, but they are happening even in the second and third decades of life; and the lifestyle and coping strategies that engender them are developed typically in young adulthood. Students frequently do note when a stress response disrupts cognitive functioning. Getting too “hyped” about an exam or paper—with the shift to heightened senses and distractibility and to nonlinear, loose thought—can be very disruptive and frustrating. Concentration becomes poor and even minor distractions repeatedly take awareness away from study or writing. Skeletal muscles, primed with extra oxygen and sugar, “demand” some action, and pacing takes one away from desk or carrel. When bedtime comes, racing thoughts prevent sleep. Many students believe such stress is their inevitable fate at school, and they endure by praying merely to survive until they can be graduated and leave “academic pressure” behind. Unfortunately, this often simply evolves into “job pressure,” “financial pressure,” and “pressure at home” later on. The college situation offers the opportunity to habituate the stress response for a lifetime—or to learn how to evoke an alternate “relaxation response.” The body does indeed have a response which leads to essentially the opposite of the stress response. The resultant, immediate improvement in concentration, physical calm, and reduced distractibility can be remarkable. And its long-term effects on health can be as lifesaving as the stress response is in a short-term emergency.

Producing Relaxation

Mr. McEnroe and the profs at Davidson all know how to evoke a stress response. But how do you evoke the relaxation response?

1. The single most effective technique is some form of aerobic exercise done regularly in moderation. Interrupting study—even during exams—for 20-40 minutes of exercise can result in improved concentration and attitude which more than make up for the time diverted from the books. Jogging, swimming, or even use of a mini-tramp stored under the bed are good examples which don’t require special skills, expensive equipment, or the scheduling of organized sports.

2. Take a deep breath or two. Next time you feel yourself starting to get too tense or hyped, try taking one or two slow, deep breaths. It slows heart rate and tends to produce relaxation. It’s a good way to start an exam and to finish it.

3. Another technique is to practice meditation or to explore a relaxing fantasy image while in a quiet setting with relaxed posture and eyes closed. Meditation may consist of a simple repetitive thought such as “Calm,” “Peace,” or “Flower.” Especially effective is to imagine yourself in a specific place you already associate with peace and confidence, such as a secluded beach or mountain setting. As you imagine it, attend in detail to each and every sense in turn, including smell, taste, and temperature/touch, as well as sight and sound. Regular practice of meditation or relaxation imagery done 10 minutes each day can not only reduce chronic stress on a day-to-day basis, but also develop a learned relaxation reflex which can then be called upon during an exam or whenever you become “too hyped.”

4. Take a reverse lesson from John McEnroe. We all talk to ourselves and select to a degree where to attend and how to interpret our experiences. To calm down, avoid fussing at yourself. Replace critical comments, threats, and catastrophe statements to self (e.g., “If you don’t get off your incompetent rear end and get this chapter down cold, you're gonna blow your whole GPA!!”) with calming, friendly, and supportive statements to self (e.g., “Allow yourself to calm... relax a little on this... your best is all that you can do, so go for that rather than a grade... you're capable...,” etc.). If you find it difficult to do either the third or fourth technique listed above, the Student Counseling Service can offer additional help to get you going. Also, there is another technique—deep muscle relaxation training—which can be especially effective if you experience a lot of physical tension.

So develop a relaxation response so that you have a choice: stress response for short-term physical emergencies and relaxation response for chronic, anticipated, and/or cognitive situations. Your advantage, Davidson student...