Sports

Blue Devils outmuscle Cats 69-52
By ANDY BARRON

Any students who chose E.H. Little Library and their books over the Davidson-Duke game in Charlotte will be relieved to know they made the right decision. Davidson’s 69-52 loss to Duke will be remembered as a game where no one seemed to be doing what they should have.

Duke, third-ranked in the nation, looked like they would rather have been doing something other than playing Davidson in basketball. Duke’s lack of enthusiasm could have been exploited by the Wildcats thereby turning the game into an upset, but it wasn’t to be. Davidson looked starstruck. The Wildcats played with plenty of enthusiasm and intensity, but missed too many easy shots and made too many bad passes to beat East Tennessee State, much less Duke.

Most importantly, the referees seemed intimidated by Duke’s players, coaches and national ranking. To say the referees called a loose game would be an understatement. The minimal use given to the referees’ whistles made it look like they were looking for their NFL yellow flags to throw at all the penalties that flashed before them. For basketball fans, last night’s game was pure agony. The referees never had control of the game and inconsistency ran

Student support encouraged
By MIKE ADAMS

Men’s basketball coach Bobby Hussey and fourteen students have formed the “Fast Break Committee” to encourage support for the Wildcat basketball team. The committee has scheduled several halftime activities and a raffle of a television to promote attendance at home games.

Junior Connie Clark, who chairs the committee, said its purpose is “to rally support and interest in the Davidson basketball team.” Attendance is the key issue for the committee. “We really want students to go to the games,” Clark said.

The Fast Break Committee is attempting to promote attendance through a variety of halftime activities. Tentatively scheduled events include “King of Pizza” night on Jan. 9, the Benji Hill Juggling Act on Jan. 11 and a “Dash for Cash” on Feb. 3.

In another promotion the committee will raffle a television at the last home game. Students attending home games can register in a designated area between 6:45 and 7:30 p.m. At the end of the season, those students who have attended the most games will become eligible for the raffle of a 19” color television.

Cats dominate UNCC 49ers 68-53
By DARRYL BEGO

To put it bluntly, Davidson dominated UNCC last Saturday in Charlotte. “If we control the boards, we control the tempo of the game, and ultimately the outcome.” Davidson proved these words by senior Jim McConkey true as the Wildcats combined rebounding and a patient half-court game to defeat the UNCC 49ers 68-53.

UNCC controlled the opening tap and raced to an early 4-0 lead on goals by juniors Mike Milling and Keith Williams. But the Cats charged back with eight unanswered points, on goals by junior Chris Heineman, McConkey and two from senior Ken Neibuhr. After the lead shifted back and forth for some time, Davidson took a 21-20 lead on a nifty Gerry Born lean-in bank shot. Born also drew a foul from UNCC’s Mike Washington, sending himself to the charity stripe. The Cats would never trail again, as junior Anthony “Ace” Tanner made up for Born’s missed free throw with a crowd-arousing, follow-up dunk. This provided a spark, because moments later another Born jumper, a Heineman bomb, and the Cats went in at halftime with a 28-22 lead.

The first half was basically an unproductive one, but it was not lacking in intensity. Both teams played tenaciously and their halftime shooting percentages explain their scoring deficiencies. Davidson shot 46.2 percent and UNCC merely 31.3 percent.

Davidson's first half momentum carried over into the secondHalf as the Cats scored a couple of easy lay-ins, but not till after the 49ers made a run at Davidson themselves, narrowing the halftime margin to 36-32. A hook shot by 6'11” UNCC center, Ray Gromlowicz, and consecutive baskets by guard Rodney Abrams, sent coach Bobby Hussey motioning for a time-out. After the time-out, the Cats amok.

It would be a lie to say Duke won because of poor officiating. Duke outshot, outrebounded and, most importantly, outscored Davidson throughout the game. Duke won because even when their offense sputtered, their tough man-to-man defense prevented Davidson from making a run. Duke looked like they were going to run away and hide when they blew to a 24-8 lead with seven minutes left in the half. The Wildcats never gave up, however, and fueled by strong bench play from senior Ken Niebuhr and sophomore Todd Scott, scored eight straight to make the score 24-16. The rest of the half was even and the halftime score had Duke ahead 33-25.

Early in the second half, Davidson cut Duke’s lead to six and appeared ready to make Duke sweat. Then the referees helped kill Davidson’s upset by ignoring the street-fight that developed in front of them. “Duke was bigger and stronger and the physical play definitely didn’t help us,” coach Bobby Hussey said. “We really got by the foul trouble our players got into (Senior Gerry Born and Rucker fouled out for Davidson). They played great defense. I think we could have played better and I’m disappointed that we didn’t.”

Duke finally ran away for good in the second half, but though the Blue Devils won by 17 points, Davidson played Duke much more evenly than the final score indicates. Himes led Davidson with 11 points and the Wildcats got great play from Niebuhr and Scott, who played his best game to date at Davidson.

Davidson has yet to play anybody that wasn’t a pushover in a rebuilding year or in the highest reaches of NCAA basketball. Over the break, Davidson finally plays teams in the middle ground.

Robert Nesbit

Anthony “Ace” Tanner flies on Air Tanner for the easy way to the basket seemed to be pumped up, especially Heineman. It was Heineman from 23 feet and then 18 feet from the corner. He sparked the Cats with his outside shooting and opened up the Cats’ inside game. Heineman said: “When I got the ball, a few times the defense would stay inside and leave me open. I knew that if I would hit a few jumpers it would eventually open up our inside game.”

Open up is just what the game did, for the once close 36-32 early second half score, leaped to a 46-36 margin with 10:47 left to play. The 49ers would never get closer than nine points for the remainder of the game, as the Cats spread their offense and forced the 49ers to foul them.

The keys to the game were the Cats’ rebounding and ball control. McConkey said, “We were fired up to go to the boards because we knew it was a very important part of our winning.” McConkey, who had seven boards added, “We have a play in which we burst into the lanes and hope to get a long rebound after a missed free throw or shot.”

The game ran Davidson's record to 5-1. The win was impressive as everyone on the team was involved and contributed. Senior guard Pepper Bego said: “Everyone helped out. Behind the scenes, those who played little in the game contributed substantially by encouraging the first team to work hard. Also, the fan support was great.”

As far as the UNCC game is concerned, as sophomore center Mike Gynn puts it, “Nothing more should be said, but, take a glance at the scoreboard.”