Arts & Entertainment Opening April 25 Elaborate Shakespearian Production To Appear By ANNE LAMBERT When the curtain opens on the
Davidson College Theater Department’s spring production of William Shakespeare’s The Tempest on April 25th in Hodson Hall, the audience will
view the results of over 90 hours of rehearsal time and 60 hours of work on set design and construction,
30 costume changes, $500 worth of muslin and canvas, and the combined efforts of more than 100 people. Those involved
include a cast of 25, and a tech crew of 60-plus, all under the direction of Dr. Rupert Barber. No
tempest in a teapot, this. Written in 1611, The Tempest is one of Shakespeare’s most theatrical romances, full of magical
illusion, romance, and intrigue. The play opens on the deck of a ship in the midst of a violent storm,
which Prospero has commanded his sprite Ariel to create by magic, in order to bring its passengers to his island.
(Twelve years before, Prospero’s brother Antonio usurped his authority and his title and exiled the rightful duke to an island
with his daughter, Miranda.) This ship’s passengers include Antonio, the usurping Duke, Alonso, the King of Naples, Sebastian, the King’s
brother, the King’s son Ferdinand, Gonzalo, his counselor, and various attendants. All land safely on the island, but Prospero has
contrived that the young handsome prince Ferdinand be separated from the royal party. Supposing the rest of his group lost
at sea, Ferdinand sadly assumes himself now King of Naples. He and Miranda fall in love, a match approved by
Prospero. On the other side of the island, the King and his group are amazed by their magical surroundings. While
he is sleeping, Sebastian and Antonio plot together to kill the King, and place Sebastian in power, but Ariel awakens
Alonso before they can carry out the deed. Meanwhile, two other passengers on the ship, Trinculo and Stephano, jesters to
the court, have also landed on the island. They meet up with the wretched, deformed monster Caliban, a slave to
Prospero, who, out of hatred for his master, conspires with the jesters against him. (Prospero, however, is aware of the
plot and is not threatened by it.) Prospero, employing his magic powers, continues to control the events on the island.
He conjures up a banquet before the king’s party causing them amazement and confusion. He summons the goddesses Iris, Ceres,
and Juno to bless the marriage of Ferdinand and Miranda, and thwarts the conspiracy of Caliban and the jesters by
chasing them away with conjured spirits. At last, Prospero instructs Ariel to bring the king’s group before him. He forgives
his brother, reunites Ferdinand with his father, restores the wrecked ship, rebukes a remorseful Caliban, frees Ariel, and reclaims his
Dukedom, arranging to return to Milan with the King and his company. The Tempest contains many themes dealing with the
nature of art, reality and illusion, rebellion against authority, usurpation of power, and freedom and servitude. The theme of art
and creation of art through imagination is central to The Tempest. Prospero uses his magic, his imagination, to artfully manipulate
situations, events, and people to suit his purposes. Although he possesses a powerful ability, his intentions are always toward a
positive end. “Prospero’s magic is not black magic,” says Dr. Barber, “even though it may be used for [seemingly] bad
ends—for example, the storm. There is still good which results.” Senior John Marks, who plays Prospero, sees him as a
man “almost mad from the power he possesses. Yet at other times, he’s simply weary of his power, he wants
to give it up. It may be a trite interpretation, but I think it’s valid, that the storm that Prospero
creates reflects, as some have said, the storm inside of himself,” the vacillation between good and evil. The sprite Ariel
and the monster Caliban have been seen as allegorical embodiments of Prospero’s imagination, Ariel as a manifestation of good art
and Caliban a representation of art for bad ends. (Some productions of The Tempest have portrayed Caliban as a representative
figure for black Americans, suffering in slavery and rebelling unsuccessfully against a harsh master.) The Tempest also treats the themes
of romantic and parental love, themes that Dr. Barber hopes to emphasize. “The relationship between Prospero and Miranda is a
major relationship of the play. Prospero’s concern for his daughter can help to explain some of his... illogical actions. He
is a father torn between wanting his daughter to stay with him and letting her grow up, letting her leave.”
In that regard, Barber believes, the play has special relevance to the college-age audience. Barber also recognized the importance of
the relationship between Ferdinand and Miranda. “We want to bring out the romantic aspect of the play—its exotic, supernatural elements.
The play is romantic in all sorts of ways, especially the magic of the love relationship.” Time and setting are
essential thematic elements of the play, as well. The text contains numerous references to time; indeed, the word “now” occurs
no less than seventy-nine times during the play. Dr. Joe Gardner has created the island setting using a raked platform
set which extends into the audience. The set, says Dr. Barber, incorporates elements of the Elizabethan stage, with the intent
of bringing the action closerto the viewer. The cast of The Tempest is comprised of several students new to the
Davidson stage, as well as theater veterans. John Marks ends a long Davidson theater career with his role as Prospero
and is excited about the character. “Prospero is at a point in his life where he stands to gain everything
or lose everything. Whatever truth he realizes on this island, he has to leave it behind because he’s going back
to be a ruler. This is his moment of truth.” Marks’ first role at Davidson was as a freshman, playing
Glowgauer in “Once in a Lifetime.” He has since played leads in The Suicide, Poor Murderer, and in last fall’s
production of Misalliance. “It’s been a unique experience these past four years,” Marks acknowledges, “because I’ve had the opportunity to
play everything, from being an ornament on stage to a lead role. I’ve worked with two or three generations of
Davidson actors and actresses. I've done everything,” Marks says, “everything except a musical, because,” he admits, “I can't sing.”

Freshman Maxine Curry and junior Steve Hughes, as the lovers Miranda and Ferdinand, are relatively new to the theater. Hughes
says, “I’m surprised at how comfortable I feel compared to the beginning. The only [previous] theater experience I had was
being a G-man in You Can't Take It With You.” Hughes had three lines in that production, the longest being,
“There's enough gunpowder down there to blow up the whole city.” With the role of Ferdinand, he increases his on-stage
time considerably and enjoys practicing his favorite line: “The white cold virgin snow upon my heart abates the ardor of
my liver.”

Other members of the cast include: Ross Holt, as Alonso; Thurston Hatcher, as Sebastian; John Syme, as Antonio; Wayne MacGruder,
as Gonzalo; Clara Broniac, as Adriana; Bill Crone, as Caliban; Mark Wright, as Trinculo; Dan Michaelis, as Stephano; Laura Pell
Turnburke, as Ariel; Lance Luckey, as the Boatswain; Jeff Green and Bob Boyd, as mariners; Alison McGill, as Iris; Amy
Burton, as Ceres; Sophie Manham, as Juno, and members of the Davidson Dance Troupe. Dr. Garder will design the costumes
and Amy Burton will arrange the music. The box office opens in Hodson Hall on Monday, April 5th. Tickets may
be purchased between 2—5 weekdays.

The Purple Rose Of Cairo: Hilarious And Moving Film
By MATT MORRIS

Cecilia (Mia Farrow) is a young girl living in New Jersey during the dark depression circa 1935. Silly, but enjoyable,
adventure/love story films like The Purple Rose of Cairo play the marquee several times daily and divert our heroine’s attentions
from her real-world situation—an unfaithful husband (Danny Aiello) and a horrible job as a waitress. All is stale in Cecilia’s
life until one day, during a matinee showing of Purple Rose, the lead actor, suave, good-guy Tony Baxter (Jeff Daniels)
strolls off the screen and into Cecilia’s startled arms, proclaiming his love for her. Of course, the other performers on
screen are a bit miffed by the departure of their star, but Cecilia's new “fictional” boyfriend couldn’t care less and
off they stroll into the world seeking adventure and romance.

One of the nicest things about Woody Allen’s 13th movie, also called The Purple Rose of Cairo, is that in
spite of such a fantastic premise, the film comes off as credible, even moving. By the last, heart-breaking moment, Allen
has transformed what could have been merely a jolly comedy of errors into a truly meaningful look at illusion and
reality, the romanticized vs. the truth. Cecilia loves Tom, but he is still a child, an E.T. who, like all
movie heroes, never gets hurt in a fight and is thus removed from the harsher realities of the world. Cecilia
seeks escape from her drab world but she doesn’t completely deny reality. Tom, a charming but flat character, is on
a permanent movie trip that Cecilia enjoys but quickly overdoses on. Part of the magic of movies, Woody Allen understands,
is the fact that they are created in a world that is not perfect. Beauty is only beautiful when there
is ugly. Gil (also played, but in a completely different way, by Jeff Daniels), the actor who portrays Tom, has
the screen character's good looks, but little of his naive charm and kindness. Cecilia ultimately falls for both Tom and
Gil—the romantic ideal and the real McCoy—and her Purple Rose probes into darker undercurrents as Allen reveals the sacrifices Cecilia
must make when caught in a world that doesn’t quite live up to her movie expectations.

To reveal any more of this film would be positively sinful—all that need be said here is that there are
some typically hilarious Woody Allen visual jokes and pokes at old Hollywood—the actual movie-within-a-movie “Purple Rose of Cairo” has a
perfectly silly old Hollywood feel, complete with dry martinis, playboys, and Hattie McDaniel stereotypes. Mia Farrow does a brilliant little
tramp impersonation (under Woody she has always been excellent) and the entire ensemble, including Edward Herrmann, Danny Aiello, and in
a cameo, Ruth Gordon, are all terrific. Purple Rose of Cairo may sound completely out of this world, but the
problems of failed marriages, hopes and dreams, and above all else, the power of movies to control us, delight us,
and leave a scar in our head is earthbound and what The Purple Rose of Cairo is ultimately all about.
