Cats Capture Hornet's Nest p.4

The Davidsonian
Volume LXXV, Number 10
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Thursday, December 19, 1985

Athletic Director Discusses Progress, Plans

Editor’s note: News Editor Andrea Diedrich and staff writer Jeff Lesesne interviewed Athletic Director Christopher Morris. Morris’s comments have been edited for clarity. This is the first of a two-part article.

By ANDREA DIEDRICH and JEFF LESESNE

The Davidsonian: Last year The Davidsonian asked you if a school like Davidson can realistically maintain a Division I program, and you responded that you were not in a position to answer that question because you had never seen a Davidson contest. Now how would you respond?

Morris: I think that we have shown some real promise. There are certain disadvantages that we will always have because of size. We are the smallest school in the country attempting to play a full range of Division I sports. In particular with football, I think that the league configuration into which we’re going, the Colonial League, next to the Ivy League, is the most high-powered league academically; and all the schools are committed to a financial aid policy identical to ours. This is probably the only place in which we could play Division I football. In terms of the universe of Division I, whether we could be successful continuing in the Southern Conference with a full complement of 70 athletic scholarships, I have grave reservations, but the new league setting into which we're going to go holds great promise. We’re going to have to improve to be competitive there, and I think that the early signals that we have seen — the coaching change, the kind of attitude with which Coach Gatto has attacked his job and his appreciation for what the college is about — are factors that should put us in good footing there. Only time will tell over the long pull.

In men’s basketball, I think we're beginning to see the program bear fruit. It’s been over twelve years since we've had a winning season. But the early signs this year are very positive and very encouraging. The resources that we’ve devoted to men’s basketball place us in the position that we can be competitive. When we talked last year, we'd had a decade of losing seasons in baseball, yet what Coach Greer’s team was able to do last spring was nothing short of a phenomenon. They won more games than any Davidson baseball team in history; they won the South Division Championship of the Southern Conference; Coach Greer was named Coach of the Year; Bill Masse was named Freshman of the Year and won the batting championship. That whole team’s coming back, which gives a strong signal to our other team sports that with the right kind of combination of aggressive recruiting within the limitations that our finances impose, solid coaching, strong commitment to success on behalf of team members, we can be successful at the Division I level.

In men’s soccer, to be able to beat a top ten team like Duke and finish as strongly as we did in the Southern Conference is another example of our ability to compete in Division I. If we use these sports as models, then the strong indications seem to be that we can be competitive. It’s also pretty clear to me that because of the size limitations that we have, it’s unlikely that we're going to be able to field a full championship team in sports like men’s and women’s indoor and outdoor track and field, perhaps cross country, probably wrestling, and when we get our new facility completed, men’s and women’s swimming. So we have to alter our goals a little bit. The way that we must seek to define success would be using the measures of broad-based participation as well as having a few people who are competing at the very top of their sports. So we may not have a conference championship team, but in the individual sports we have a few conference champions from among a team that is...broadly representative of the student body. Also, it seems quite clear that we have not been as mindful as we might have been and as we should have been to the need for strong stewardship in the area of women’s athletics. This is an area that we're seeking to address currently. The advisory council on intercollegiate athletics is joining me in asking the president to appoint a committee to review the current status of women’s athletics with the ultimate goal of being able to develop a range of options for the future of that program.

D: How soon will your plans relating to women’s athletics be carried out?

M: Letters of appointment for that committee should be going out from the president shortly. I would imagine that to offer the kind of comprehensive review necessary, it would take at least two months to do it well and to investigate thoroughly what we have and to have a complete discussion about what we want and what would be good and right and acceptable for the college. I think what would not be acceptable would be to run the majority of men’s and women’s programs on dual tracks where the commitment to the sports were so disparate as to be discriminatory. We're simply not going to be about that here.

D: After we join the Colonial Football League, will our other athletic teams be allowed to continue to compete in the Southern Conference? If not, what are our alternatives?

M: That's not a question that’s been resolved in a finite way. What the Southern Conference has said is that when we no longer meet the scheduling requirements for football and basketball, and that would be in the 87-88 school year, then we will no longer enjoy Conference membership. More Conference regulations were in effect in the past when Davidson College was granted a waiver for football participation for a period of about ten years. Although I’m not hanging all my hopes on that one star that we might be granted a waiver again, I've certainly been speaking long and often with my colleagues in the Southern Conference to try to persuade them that the opportunity to remain in the Conference would be a good thing for both us and them. It’s not the only option we're pursuing at this time. Over the long pull, I see independent status as being unattractive and unaffordable, so we're trying to investigate what else may be available and what else would be a good fit for what we're trying to do. The world of college athletics is pretty volatile right now. There has been the development of new conferences, there have been a number of major scandals that have caused colleges and universities to reassess what they're doing — whether what they're doing is right; and how they can bring things back into line. I think that probably what's most important for Davidson at this time is for us to keep our eyes open and our options open and to be sensitive to new thoughts and trends that may be developing that in the near future may become full-fledged opportunities for us.

D: Is there any particular alternative to the Southern Conference that we are investigating?

M: As an alternative to the Southern Conference, probably the thing that looms on the horizon that would be most attractive would be a league that until this year was known as the ECAC South and is now called the Colonial Athletic Association. Their headquarters are based in Richmond and the member schools are Navy, American University, George Mason, James Madison, William and Mary, Richmond, UNC Wilmington, and East Carolina. Three of those schools used to be in the Southern Conference and were in the Conference the last time we won a championship in football or basketball. We've played a number of those schools over the years. It focuses our competition more to the north than to the south and west.

Sports ’85: In sports. Barron reviews the year Page 5 College chaplain looks at the effects of divorce on Page 7