Friday, May 10, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Dean Ross Promoted To Registrar’s Position

By KELLEY DIXON

When Sue Ross became Associate Dean of Students in 1977, she planned to stay in that position only four years.
Eight years later, she is moving up (or across the hall) to the Registrar’s Office.

Before coming to Davidson, Ross taught in a variety of academic settings including St. Mary’s, Queens, and UNC at Chapel
Hill where she was Assistant Dean of Women. Ross has often been mistaken as Dean of Women for Davidson College.
She is not a single-sex Dean (Sorry, Sue), though she has done much work with women at Davidson. She arrived
at DC at a time when women were beginning to assert themselves after a period of quiet struggling to prove
that they belonged here and could hold their own academically. In Ross’s first year, Rusk was started as a women’s
center to initiate programming concerning women’s issues. After Rusk became more of a social outlet, Ross and others materialized the
need for a women’s center in Kimmel House, but the organization was short-lived.

Participating as the Dean’s office representative for the Union Board, Dean Ross was instrumental in starting the Women’s Concerns Committee
and the International Committee. When she must be pinned down to specific duties she has had as Associate Dean of
Students, Ross lists the orientation of transfer students and international students. As a member of the English Department, Ross has
been able to continue academic pursuits as well as to facilitate broader relationships with students. Being the first in her
position to also teach, Ross feels that her academic contact has aided relations between faculty and administration. Her first-year English
classes were confined to the freshman level, but now she only teaches upper-level literature courses.

In her effort to make student contacts in varied groups of men and women, Dean Ross has been “involved in
as many types of life as possible.” She offers dedicated support to Davidson athletics, especially intramural, and is an avid
theatre fan, missing only three workshop productions in her eight years. As a result of her broad student contact, Ross's
job became increasingly counselor-oriented. She is constantly occupied with the “normal growing pains” of college students. Her advice is sought
during family crises and career decisions, she helps students cut through administrative red tape, and she refers students to the
proper channels when she cannot help.

“Davidson College is the kind of environment where risk can be taken,” says Ross. “And that involves failure and success.”
As Associate Dean of Students, her attitude has been one of encouraging growth while respecting limitations. Her disciplinary attitude is
to help the student deal with the consequences of his/her actions while rationally accepting the gravity of the offense. She
feels that it is crucial for students, as young adults, to learn the principle of cause and effect concerning their
actions.

Ross said that every year after her fourth, she has made a conscious career decision to stay in the Dean’s
Office, and this year she was not seeking promotion. Her duties as registrar will include the administration of the academic
regulations of the faculty, coordination of student and faculty academic schedules, evaluation of any academic work done outside Davidson for
transfer, registration of students, and execution of the self-scheduled exam system (no pun or prophecy intended). She will also actively
maintain her position in the English Department as a teaching member. Her only fear about her new job involves the
concept that as one moves up in Administration, one also moves away from students. But because Ross is already perceived
as an accessible member of the faculty, there will probably be an increased amount of traffic through the Registrar's Office.
Ross's promotion makes her an officer of the College, and places her on the President's Administrative Staff. She was approved
for the position by the Executive Committee of Faculty and Trustees.

Dean Terry will select the new Assistant Dean of Students to join him and Assistant Dean Paula Miller. Ross has
no strong feeling as to whether the new person be male or female since both groups have a representative in
the Dean's Office presently. Whether Terry chooses someone from within the College or initiates a nationwide search, he wants to
fill the gap quickly.

Mackinley Zimmerman

Guess Who's Coming to 85-86 will be a great year, and summer never lasts very long!

SPIDRIG, GOODRICH, & GOGGIN (Chamber Music Cup) all the way from New Orleans...

November 7 The Preservation Hall Jazz Band The New Union Cafe The definition of Jazz & Dixieland...

Speakers

Davidson Outdoors trips & Climbs & Camping (Nature as Art)

Cultural Events

Culture as Art

Music and music and music and music and music and...

'85-'86 Artist Series (Best Ever!)

October 2 Daniel McKelway w/ The Charlotte Symphony

November 7 The Acting Company As You Like It

Homecoming Oct. 18-19

Midwinters Jan. 24/25

January 21 The American Ballet Comedy

March 12 Kuchipudi Dance Troupe

March 28 National Theater of the Deaf

FROLICS in April
