Sports

Gridders garner first win of season against Wofford

By MIKE ADAMS

Hats off to the Davidson football team. Charlie Brown and the Peanuts nine may never win a baseball game, but the Cats proved they can win. The Wildcats beat the Wofford Terriers 21-17 in Spartanburg on Saturday to notch their first victory of the season.

The game was decided in large part by turnovers, but this time Davidson got ’em and the opponent gave ’em up. The Terriers had three fumbles and one interception while the Cats gave up only one interception. All three of Davidson’s scores came after Wofford coughed up the ball.

Davidson fell behind 10-0 early in the game. On the Terriers’ second play from scrimmage, they ran a 74-yard option play for a touchdown. Wofford added a field goal with 11:40 left in the second quarter and things looked black for the Cats. But the Wildcat offense responded after Wofford fumbled a punt at Davidson’s 41. The Cats marched 59 yards in 11 plays for their first touchdown in four weeks. Junior quarterback Jack McCollum, who replaced sophomore starter Charlie Winborne, led the drive. He completed two passes for 18 yards and rushed for 13 yards. Junior running back Mike Jones had two carries for 15 yards and sophomore running back Aaron Edwards rushed twice for 13 yards, including a five-yard plunge for the touchdown.

Wofford scored once more before the half to run the score to 17-7. The Cats came out of the dressing room fired up, however, and while the defense held the Terriers in check, the offense added two fourth-quarter touchdowns for the win.

Davidson got its break when senior Scott Morrison intercepted a Wofford pass and returned it to the Terriers' 27-yard line. A 15-yard clipping penalty moved the ball back to the Wofford 42, where the Cats’ offense took over. Ten plays later, Davidson scored on a one-yard pass from McCollum to senior Chuck Goff. Goff, usually a linebacker, lined up as a receiver for this play.

The Cats got the ball back two plays later when Wofford coughed up the ball at their own 28. After a three-yard carry by Edwards and two incomplete passes, quarterback Winborne hit erstwhile quarterback McCollum for a 13-yard gain on fourth down. Five plays later, the Cats put the ball in the end zone with a one-yard run by Edwards for the 21-17 final score.

McCollum and Edwards were the stars of the game for Davidson. McCollum completed nine passes in 20 attempts for 72 yards and a touchdown. He also rushed for 31 yards and caught two passes for 25 yards. Edwards had 68 yards rushing on 17 carries while scoring two touchdowns and catching two passes for 38 yards.

The Davidson football team has faced a lot of adversity this season in the form of injuries and general lack of depth, and with their 0-8 record coming into the Wofford game they appeared to be down for the count. They proved there's still some life left in them, however, and, while they may not be playoff-bound, they restored some pride in the red and black.

Soccer team’s drive for championship ends with loss

By ANDY BARRON

This season’s hopes for a Southern Conference championship for Davidson’s soccer team ended in Saturday’s soggy season finale as Appalachian State beat the Wildcats 3-0. The game propelled the Mountaineers into tomorrow’s Southern Conference title match against Furman and sent Davidson to a premature offseason. Davidson finished the season with an overall record of 8-9-2 and 4-2 in the conference.

“I thought whoever scored first would be in the driver’s seat,” coach Charlie Slagle said. “The conditions of the field made scoring difficult. If we had scored, I don’t think they would have been able to score.”Twice. Since we haven’t been a great goal-scoring team, the conditions were going to make a comeback on our part extra difficult. As it turns out, the latter condition occurred.”

Davidson played extremely well early in the game, putting constant pressure on the Mountaineer goal for almost 20 minutes. A series of corner kicks, throw-ins, and solid combination passing achieved a rebound off the post, but no goals. The play of the game came about halfway through the first half. Appalachian State sent a corner kick into the penalty area and although the corner kick was not especially well played, the Wildcats were unable to clear the ball. After the ball had bounced off several players, a Mountaineer defender jumped on the loose ball and sent a shot at the Davidson goal. The ball knuckled toward the net, took a funny bounce off the ground, and tripped off junior the goal.

Davidson pushed five players into attack positions late in the game in an attempt to tie the score. Though the Cats got several good opportunities, the tying goal they needed so badly eluded them. With so many players attacking, App. State got several breakaway attempts. Two breakaway goals put the game away.

“The last two goals were insignificant,” Slagle said. “Their first goal was enough to put them in the championship game. If we had merely wanted to split 1-0 games with them (Davidson beat App. State 1-0 earlier in the year), I'm pretty sure we could have done that. We were doing everything we could to tie the game. The last two goals just ended the game earlier and gave us a chance to play some people who hadn't had much playing time this season.”

Though Davidson failed to have a winning record, the season was still successful. Davidson had some unfortunate losses (Wake Forest, Marshall, and Belmont Abbey) that hurt their record, but countered with some big wins (e.g., Georgia State). Davidson also played a close game with national powerhouse North Carolina State, a team that humiliated the Wildcats 5-0 only a year ago.

Injuries were a problem for the Wildcats all year. Senior Wallis Goodman missed the last two weeks of the season with a leg injury. Freshman Tracy Hankins was starting when he went down with a season-ending broken bone in his foot. Junior Sean Moser, a starter last season, missed the entire year with a knee injury. Senior Bill Coxhead and sophomore Andy Clarke both missed a number of games with injuries. The list goes on, but the disruption caused by such injuries is already obvious.

The lack of consistent goal scoring, long a Davidson soccer nemesis, haunted the Wildcats again this year. Senior Sean Austin led the team with three goals (several players had two) and junior Brian Shockley led the team in points with ten (two goals, six assists). Davidson was able to score more than two goals in a game only two times, both against VMI. For next year’s team to improve on the efforts of this year’s squad, some scoring punch will have to develop.

All-Conference selections take place tonight and several Davidson players should receive conference honors. Goodman and senior Tony Cabrales both have a good chance to make the All-Conference team for the third straight year. Kelly has a strong case to repeat as the conference's best keeper. Sophomores Mike Spear and Steve Ott have a good shot at making the team for the first time. Ott, incidentally, was voted Most Valuable Player for the Wildcats by the members of the team.

Every member of the team made a contribution this year, especially the seniors. Goodman, Cabrales, Austin, Billy Coxhead, and Sean Goudie form what Slagle calls “the best class to ever go through our program.”

“We keep improving every year,” Slagle said. “This year's bunch was Davidson's best team to date. As of now, we are already working on next year. Our schedule will be as tough as ever, but I think we can play even better next year than we did this season.”