6 Friday, January 18, 1985 / The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Workshop Plays Aim For Audience Involvement

By VALERIE HINTON and THURSTON HATCHER

Ten years ago, the Workshop in Cunningham was exactly what its name suggests. It was used to store unused flats,
props from the fall play, and lighting equipment awaiting a role in the spring production. Now, however, lights hang in
the Workshop, illuminating a unique and intimate space which will come alive each Thursday and Friday night of the next
month with a series of student-directed one-act plays.

Theatre Professors Rupert Barber and Joseph Gardner saw great potential in the Workshop; they realized that in the smaller space
they could avoid the big-stage spectacle and concentrate instead on the essential elements of theatre. The division between the audience
and the actors is diminished in the Workshop, so the audience can experience drama in its purest, most natural form.

This year, all nine plays will be performed in the round, a theatrical mode few Davidson students have experienced. Theatre
in the round is a more immediate style; it is three-dimensional and it allows the audience to view the action
from all four sides. Such an arrangement can present problems, however. Junior Megan Bos, a student director, discovered that her
actors began playing to the center of the stage rather than out to the audience. Because it appears so natural,
it also appears easy, but the actors accustomed to the traditional proscenium stage find the transition to the round difficult.

Bos also described some problems caused by the nearness of the audience to the stage. “The audience is so close
that it’s hard for actors to stay in character. Also, everything has to be realistic. Actors can’t use lots of
makeup, as they do in major plays. You really have to pay more attention to details.”

The Workshop season has proven to be one of the most exciting cultural events of the winter term. Davidson students
try their hand not only at acting and directing, but they also take part behind the scenes making costumes, setting
lights, running sound, and building sets. The Theatre Production class and the Directing class coordinate efforts to produce each season
of one-acts. Members of the “Problems in Directing” class choose the plays they wish to direct and are given three
weeks for try-outs, casting, and of course, directing.

Bos believes that workshop plays are “somewhat easier” on students than the major productions. “Workshop plays are produced after about
two weeks of rehearsal, whereas major plays require six weeks. The lesser amount of time for workshop plays also puts
a lot more pressure on students to learn lines.”

The workshop class is responsible for building the sets for the plays. Bos explains that the class’s limited time requires
that the sets be “really scaled down.”

The season begins at 7 p.m. next Thursday and Friday with Beth Henley’s “Am I Blue?” and “Canadian Gothic” by
Joanna Glass. “Am I Blue?”, directed by Junior Alison McGill, is a sensitive comedy about a college freshman’s confusion with
love and life. Junior Anne Lambert directs “Canadian Gothic,” a play she has found compelling because of its unique nature.
“It is a combination,” she says, “of straight dramatic dialogue and memory monologues.”

Anne Lambert directs Jennifer Poole in a rehearsal of Canadian Gothic.

The second Workshop plays (Jan. 31 and Feb. 1) are challenging character studies in that the roles demand the actors
play a wide variety of ages. Senior Amy Burton directs “Tell Me Another Story,” a play about the special relationship
between a mother and a daughter. Bos described...Her play, “Tennessee,” is the story of an old woman who “comes to
visit her old home and finds another family there. She begins reliving her life and the family becomes the members
of her own family.” Workshop III, to be performed Feb. 7 and 8, is devoted entirely to comedy. “Mother Figure,”
directed by senior Atondra Williams, and “Between Mouthfuls,” directed by senior Valerie Hinton, are part of a collection of inter-related
one-acts by British playwright Alan Ayckbourn. One takes place in a living room, the other in a restaurant; both deal
comically with problems of communication in our fast-paced society. Michael Frayn’s “Chinamen,” directed by senior Thurston Hatcher, is a satirical
look at an atypical London dinner party.

The fourth and final set of plays (Feb. 14 and 15) includes “Enchanted Night,” directed by senior John Marks, and
“Laundry and Bourbon” with director senior Heather Jameson. “Enchanted Night,” a psychological study, focuses on two men who try to
dream each other out of existence. “Laundry and Bourbon” deals with three women recalling dreams and confronting reality on a
Southern front porch. Gardner “can’t overstress the importance of the plays. One-act plays really involve risk-taking, which is exhilarating for
the performers and the audience.” He believes that attending plays is a “nice habit to get into. Based on our
track record, chances are, you’re in for a good performance.” Tryouts for “Enchanted Night” and “Laundry and Bourbon” are at
3 p.m. next Tuesday in the Workshop Theatre in Cunningham.

Material Contributed By Fda Phillips

Davidson Holds High School Pianist Competition
By ANN MEADOR

Twenty-seven talented high school pianists — and a concert pianist from Yale — arrive here today for a weekend of
performance and education as the Davidson Competition 1985 opens. The students, coming from North and South Carolina, will compete for
$300 first-place and $150 second-place prizes in this new competition. In addition, the finest performance of a required piece by
either J. S. Bach, Domenico Scarlatti, or George Handel will receive a $100 prize.

“The $100 prize is our idea,” music Professor Joel Harrison said, referring to himself and music Professor James Swisher. “This
year marks the 300th anniversary of the births of these composers, and we wanted to commemorate it.” The competition will
use a recital format, where each contestant plays a complete, 14-minute program. “This format is unique in this competition,” Harrison
said, because judges in other competitions often interrupt contestants when they have heard enough. “We're looking for everyone who comes
feeling that it was a positive experience win or lose,” he said. That is one advantage of the recital format,
he added.

After the competition ends, the Music department will consider making the event annual. “We would like to continue it,” Harrison
said, “and perhaps add an instrument or completely change it.” He noted that in the past Davidson once held an
organ recital as part of the Sacred Music Convocation, but currently holds only the Davidson Competition.

The competition represents a full weekend of activities. This afternoon’s preliminary auditions will reduce the number of competitors to eight;
John Noel Roberts of Furman and Paul Nitsch of Queens will judge. At 8:15 tonight concert pianist Donald Currier, of
the Yale University School of Music, will present an artist recital. The eight finalists will be announced at the 10
p.m. reception. Saturday morning Currier will teach a master class for the participants, and he will judge the 2 p.m.
final auditions which are open to the public. The competition will conclude with a 5 p.m. awards presentation.

Peggy Pierotti
