Friday, January 11, 1985 / The Davidsonian

OPINIONS

Davidson Students Ignore Women’s Concerns
Melissa Jones

Do the people of Davidson College care about women? We all answer yes. We take pride in a decade of
coeducation. Women at Davidson lead student government, serve as presidents of the Y, and become Rhodes Scholars. We devote a
Humanities lecture to the “Women’s Revolution” and offer a seminar in feminist literature. The history of women at Davidson College
seems a story of success.

But while we at Davidson enjoy our success stories, we fail to demonstrate our concern for women. Less than 20
people attended the presidential election debate sponsored by the Women’s Concerns Committee, although posters and flyers publicized the event well
in advance. For the few faculty and fewer students who came, attorney Gretchen Shappart of the Reagan-Bush campaign and psychologist
Pat Ashley representing the Mondale-Ferraro ticket answered questions concerning civil rights, the economy, comparable worth, the feminization of poverty, and
the impact of federal policies on the Charlotte-Mecklenburg community. Following an active discussion with the audience, a final question with
no satisfactory answer was raised: Where were the women and men of Davidson College?

Both students and faculty had their reasons for not attending the debate. As the term was drawing to a close,
some of us were studying. Some decided to spend Halloween night watching Psycho or enjoying fraternity parties. Others of us,
however, demonstrated a different sense of priorities. One faculty member took her daughter trick-or-treating and then hurried back to campus
to moderate the debate. A student encouraged her coach to join her at the debate, not the movie. Even if
they were a bit jaded by the political season, some faculty and students came to say thanks for the diligent
work of the Women’s Concerns Committee and to welcome two distinguished guests to Davidson. Those of us who made time
in busy evenings to attend enjoyed the fellowship special to our community of learners here at Davidson — a sharing
of concerns among administrators, faculty, and students. Even though we weren't studying with our noses in books, we were learning.
And we confronted some disturbing realities about women in America.

One half of elderly and single women living in our nation today live in poverty. Millions of abortions occur in
this country each year. Women bear the economic burden of our society’s increasing divorce rate, and at least one-third of
households headed by women live below the poverty line. Although working primarily because of economic need, today’s growing female workforce
earns only about 60 percent as much as men and continues to work in jobs undervalued by our society. A
Davidson education cannot shelter women from discrimination; for even after graduating from college, women earn only 63 percent as much
as men and therefore less than a man who passed the eighth grade. Although women working in some white-collar professions
face a narrower wage gap, women who hold a large percentage of sales positions work for less than half the
annual earnings of male sales clerks. A woman’s age, education, and the continuity and length of her work experience...

Group Should Leave Central America
Tim Brown

On September 1, 1984, Dana Parker, a police detective from Huntsville, Ala., and James Powell III, a helicopter pilot from
Memphis, Tenn., were found dead after their helicopter was downed by Nicaraguan soldiers. These men, Vietnam veterans, were members of
the Civilian Military Assistance (CMA), a group of military buffs from Alabama, Tennessee, and Mississippi.

Why is the CMA in Central America? What is it doing? Most importantly, should the CMA be there or is
it creating a dangerous position for the U.S.?

CMA members, most of whom are Vietnam veterans, state that their purpose is to fight communism. Unlike most of us,
they are not satisfied to fight communism through the election of government officials or support for governmental programs. Currently, their
motives are under heavy scrutiny. Many U.S. officials describe these men as soldiers of fortune — persons who follow a
military career wherever there is promise of profit, adventure, and pleasure.

Regardless of its motives, the CMA does make small contributions. These contributions might or might not be defensible to the
reader. Using its own money, the CMA gives military equipment and advice to Salvadoran soldiers. In a more extensive atmosphere,
it helps the Contras, those opposing the Sandinista regime in Nicaragua.

Congress believes the CMA should not be in Central America, and I am firmly inclined to agree. U.S. officials have
no association with the CMA. They are not able to define the form or extent of CMA involvement; however, the
U.S. is held responsible for CMA action. What if CMA members were captured and held hostage like the Americans in
Tehran? What if one member were caught committing an atrocity? Or a political assassination? The Sandinistas and the Cubans would
have a heyday for propaganda. Such propaganda could even draw the U.S. into...war. Let’s look at the events that took
place after Dana Parker and James Powell II were pronounced dead. The CMA stated that the helicopter was on a
rescue mission. The Sandinistas retorted that the helicopter fired rockets. They then made plans to take this issue to the
U.N. Security Council. To create a propaganda blitz, they explained that the two Americans were CIA agents. Nicaragua's official newspaper
depicted them as “mercenary assassins” who kill children. Interested by the media, citizens in Nicaragua flocked to the Managua morgue
to see a light-haired, fair-skinned man with a bullet hole in his temple. This event has serious implications for the
U.S. Radios and newspapers headline that two Americans are killed — not that two CMA members are killed. In the
U.N. and throughout the world, the U.S. is forced to answer for an action it had nothing to do with.
This event is a blot on the already blemished U.S. record in Central America. Finally, this action makes it seem
as if America is involved in combat operations in Nicaragua, which Congress has neither funded nor sanctioned. Brown is a
freshman from Charlotte, N.C.

ence account for less than half of these wage gaps, states the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Although they see different
causes and espouse different solutions, both Ashley and Shappart addressed these problems which face all women. We at Davidson, however,
ignore these disturbing facts of life. Most of us at Davidson find ourselves economically secure and so forget both our
own futures and the realities of other women. No one discussed the issue of comparable worth at the previous evening's
debate on economic policy because one of the debating teams had never heard of the idea. We consider so-called women’s
issues tangential to our lives, not of enough significance to encourage our students strongly to attend a debate, not of
enough importance to strongly influence our presidential voting decisions. Yet women’s issues should concern everyone. We students ought to consider
how double standards of behavior prejudice our social life. As a college community, we need to examine the bias in
our admissions policy carefully. Eventually, many of us will enter the competition for jobs and wages; many of us will
someday face decisions about parenting. Those of us who profess the Christian faith are called to show understanding, compassion, even
love for the poor in our world. Yet the vast majority of the Davidson College community, many of whom had
previously managed to make time for an economics debate, have neglected an opportunity to show concern for women and to
examine their own political and social attitudes. In his inaugural address, President John Kuykendall asserted that Davidson graduates “will be
able to make a difference in this world to the extent that they are willing to give of themselves.” Why
don’t we give part of ourselves to women’s concerns? In the past, we have filled the 900 Room to discuss
the double standard, we have left our books long enough to hear Sonia Johnson speak about feminism; we have embarked
on a retreat to study women and religion. Through Y programs and the Chapel Committee’s Awareness Weekend, we can do
a little something to help women who live alone or in poverty. We can discuss with international students or with
those who have traveled abroad the role of women in other cultures. Soon we can again participate in Women’s Week
here on campus. Of course, it is easy to ignore problems and statistics, and it is safe to cloister ourselves
in the library or to immerse ourselves in court parties. Choosing not to talk about controversial subjects can make all
our conversations quite pleasant. But ignoring our differences and our problems fails to solve anything and prevents us from making
a difference in our society. Our future, our faith, and our common humanity challenge us to talk about women’s issues
and to make women’s concerns our own. Jones is a junior political science major from Raleigh, N.C.

The Davidsonian “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions
articles on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community. We adhere to these guidelines:
1) We require that all articles be in our hands by 7 p.m. Monday.
2) We accept typed articles and those written legibly, double-spaced.
3) We require that opinions be signed. We will print unsigned articles only if a compelling reason exists for withholding
the author's name, and the author is known to either the editor or executive editor.
4) We will not edit opinions for style or content but we reserve the right to edit for rules of
common English. We will inform the author of substantial changes.
5) Since space for Opinions articles is limited, we reserve the right to select articles from those we receive for
publication. We will attempt to print any article we withhold from publication for space reasons the next week.
