Friday, May 3, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

News Summary

Awards Honor Outstanding Students

Davidson College honored the outstanding accomplishments of its faculty and students during its annual Spring Awards Convocation held in Love
Auditorium last Friday at 11 a.m.

Scheduled to coincide with Alumni Weekend, the Convocation saw the faculty and students in attendance in full academic regalia. President
John W. Kuykendall presided over the ceremony and offered some opening remarks.

Also present were junior Lillian Woo, president of the Student Government Association, who welcomed the audience on behalf of the
College, and sophomore Lynn Michie, vice president of the Y Student Service Corps, who delivered the invocation.

Dabney Stuart ’60, professor of English at Washington and Lee University and author of such poetry collections as *The Diving
Bell, The Other Hand,* and *The Common Place,* presented two literary awards. The R. Windley Hall Writing Award for freshmen
went to Heidi Hooker and John Smith. The Vereen Bell Memorial Award for Creative Writing was presented to senior John
Marks.

In addition, more than two dozen students received honors for accomplishments in academic disciplines, campus service, athletics, and personal character.
Following is a list of those awards:

- Bremer German Language Award — senior Timothy Schipke
- James Chapman, Jr. Annual Award in the field of business — junior Kevin Burke
- Jefferson Davis Award for the study of constitutional law — junior Melissa Jones
- David Halbert Howard, Jr. Chemistry Award — junior Daryl Pfister
- William G. McGavock Mathematics Award — seniors Julia Morrisett and Hendrick van Deventer
- A.K. Phifer Award in Economics — junior Stephen Dockery
- Richard Ross Memorial Music Award — senior Laura McDonald
- Susan Roberts Award for women’s intercollegiate athletics — senior Sarah Patterson
- Thomas D. Sparrow Award for intercollegiate athletics — senior Robert Letton
- Department of the Army Superior Cadet Awards — senior Robert Kmiecik, junior Andrew Myers, and sophomore Thomas Ridenhour, Jr.
- James Baker Woods, III Memorial ROTC Award — junior James Burson
- Daniel Blain Woods Premedical Award — junior Shelley Chapman
- Sandy Black Memorial Premedical Award — junior Nathan Spell
- Eumenean Literary Society Award — senior John Driggers
- Alumni Association Award — sophomore Gordon Watkins
- C. Shaw Smith Award for service to the College Union — senior Wilson Lowrey
- Rebecca E. Stimson Award for women’s athletics and leadership — senior Patricia Ives
- Tommy Peters Award for athletics and leadership — senior Kirk Gavel
- Goodwin-Exxon Awards for character, sportsmanship, and consideration for others — senior Paul Coggins, junior Amelia Hartman, and sophomore Lynn
Michie
- Theatre Department Award — senior John Marks
- Charles Malone Richards Award for preministerial students — junior Ellen Oerter
- Agnes Sentelle Brown Award for outstanding character and scholarship — junior Edward Hay
- George L. Gladstone Memorial Award for service and leadership — junior Sara Beasley

In addition, the following students were selected for membership in Omicron Delta Kappa, a national leadership honorary society: Senior Mark
Batten, junior Thomas Cardwell, senior Katherine Gratto, Edward Hay, Melissa Jones, junior Paulette Kurani, and junior Anne Lambert. Others selected
for ODK membership were junior Lisa McNeilly, senior Anne Miano, Ellen Oerter, Sarah Patterson, senior David Resnick, Nathan Spell, senior
Pam Strader, and junior David Vaughn.

Faculty Recital To Be Presented

Frank Albinder, instructor in music and director of the chorus, will present a Faculty Recital on May 8 at 8:15
in Hodson Hall of the Cunningham Fine Arts Building.

Albinder, a bass-baritone, will perform works by John Dowland, Henry Purcell, George Butterworth, Charles E. Ives, Samuel Barber, and Aaron
Copland.

A 1980 graduate of Pomona College with a bachelor’s degree in music, Albinder holds master’s degrees in vocal performance and
choral conducting from the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston. He has performed with the Boston Camerata, the Banchetto
Musicale, and the Boston Schubert Ensemble. In addition, he has served as conductor for the North Parish Choral Society in
Andover, Mass., and soloist for Boston’s First and Second Church.

Albinder will be accompanied on the piano by Joel Harrison, a lecturer in music.

Sponsored by the music department, the recital is open to the public at no charge.

Faculty Members Honored at Convocation

Two Davidson faculty members were honored at Convocation last Friday for teaching and administrative excellence.

“I feel very honored,” said Economics Professor Peter Hess, who received the Omicron Delta Kappa (ODK) teaching award. The honor
is bestowed by student members of the leadership society to a professor demonstrating outstanding teaching ability. “I think it reflects
as much as anything. I really enjoy teaching,” Hess said, praising Davidson students for their motivation and willingness to learn.

Registrar Richard Burts said the institution of Davidson College has been a striking influence on his life. Burts received the
Thomas Jefferson Award for a faculty member who epitomizes the “high ideals of Jefferson.” He said he has tried to
subordinate himself to the good of the institution.

“I just appreciate the recognition,” he said, but “you don’t work to get that kind of thing.”

Burts will retire at the end of this term. “Davidson is a tremendously rich campus experience,” he said. “It hurts
me that there are so many fine people, and programs and experiences, and that I’ve had my nose to the
grindstone.” He plans not to say goodbye to Davidson when he retires, but to inaugurate a new phase of his
relationship with the school. “I expect to come back in the building,” he said.

THE HAIR COTTAGE

ALL Student Haircuts $5.00

Linda, formerly with Davidson’s Headquarters, has relocated to the Hair Cottage. Linda will be working with hair stylist Jane Schenck.
They invite all of their student clientele to call 892-4959 for an appointment.

“THE BEST LITTLE HAIR HOUSE IN DAVIDSON”

UNITED I-77 at Hwy 73
Cornelius/Lake Norman
137 N. Main St. 892-7805
Davidson 892-7815

MOTHER'S DAY ~ MAY 12

THE VILLAGE STORE - LAKE
OFFERS A WIDE SELECTION
OF GIFTS FOR MOM
FREE GIFT WRAP
PATIO GLASSES
PATIO CANDLES
FABRIC FRAMES
TRAVEL ACCESSORIES
COUNTRY DIARY
PICNIC BASKETS
