Friday, October 11, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

News Summary

Security, parking committee and Court Council discuss future escort service

South African to discuss role of women

South African exile and literature scholar Thelma Ravell-Pinto will speak on the role of women in the South African political
crisis on Oct. 16. Ravell-Pinto, who once directed a women’s center for the training and rehabilitation of ex-guerilla women who
fought in the liberation movement in Zimbabwe, will also talk about the image of women in African literature.

Ravell-Pinto has written over 30 essays in books, academic journals, magazines, and newspapers. With her husband, James Ravell, she authored
the 1982 book “Can a White Man Speak for Me? Black Literature in South Africa.” She serves as a consultant
to various anti-apartheid organizations and peace groups and is an editorial board member for “Third Speaker Series,” a translation project
of the Netherlands Organization for International Development Cooperation. Ravell-Pinto, a visiting scholar at Spelman College in Atlanta, Ga., is a
native of Capetown, South Africa. Her speech, at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room, is sponsored by Davidson’s Center for
Special Studies and the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies.

Crop walkers raise $2,000

One hundred and twenty-five people participated in last Sunday’s Crop walk, raising $2,000 for efforts to eliminate hunger. A final
sum between $3,500-$4,000 is expected to be reached as other pledges come in. Walkers who have not turned in their
money should do so by the 20th of this month. Money may be turned in to Pat Sellers, Watts 202
(-6329); Elodie McMillan, faculty dept. 201 (-5356); or Chaplain Charlie Summers. Donations are still being accepted.

Material contributed by Thomas Nicholson.

Trustees meet, elect replacements

Last week's Trustee Meeting included the President’s Report, a report on the College's Self-Study, and the naming of two new
Trustees, according to Assistant to the President Rick Love. Elected by Wilmington Presbytery, the Rev. Edward Hay ’42 of Wilmington
will fill the unexpired term of trustee Bob Grigsby in the Class of 1987. Currently interim Presbyter for Wilmington Presbytery,
Hay is a former member of the College’s Board of Visitors. He holds Bachelor of Divinity and Master of Theology
degrees from Louisville Theological Seminary, and an honorary Doctor of Divinity degree from Rhodes College. Hay is a Trustee of
St. Andrews Presbyterian College and the father of two Davidson alumni, Edward C. Hay Jr. ’71 and May Hay ’79.

The Mecklenburg Presbytery elected the Rev. William Wood ’65 of Charlotte to fill the unexpired term of J. Randolph Taylor,
Class of 1988. Since 1983, Wood has served as senior minister at First Presbyterian Church, Charlotte. Wood holds Bachelor of
Divinity and Doctor of Theology degrees from Union Seminary.

This material contributed by co-news editor Nelle McCorkle.

SPOOK UP FANTASY
CARDS
PARTY GOODS
COSTUMING ACCESSORIES
THE VILLAGE STORE

By HEIDI HOOKER

The SGA Security and Parking Committee and the Patterson Court Council met on Oct. 2 at Dean of Students Will
Terry’s request to discuss the need for providing an escort service to Davidson students, though the service was attempted twice
unsuccessfully and discontinued last year. Chairman of the Security and Parking Committee Louis Zbinden commented that the issue was not
“whether the escort service is or isn’t a good idea but whether it would be used.”

Both committees at the meeting expressed doubts on student interest in such a service and decided to get more information
on current student opinion using some sort of poll through the girls’ dorms and eating houses. Zbinden has postponed taking
any definite action, though, until the positions on his committee are filled and settled by the SGA and its newly-elected
members.

At the meeting, Zbinden proposed the idea of spreading out responsibility for an escort service among the Patterson Court houses
and their members so as to create a court-wide policy in cooperation with promoting campus security. Last year the Security
and Parking Committee made two efforts to establish a service which would provide escorts from the library between 10 p.m.
and 1 a.m. Zbinden felt that the first one, established in response to last fall’s rape incident, failed because it
was not adequately publicized. However, he remarked that when the escort service was set up again for the spring, publicity
was everywhere and the service “stroveto make themselves visible” with signs posted on the library door in particular. Even then
the service was rarely used, though Zbinden felt students were more security conscious than ever last year. Security Officer Ray
Thrower said that patrolling officers are “more than happy to provide escorts to anyone at anytime and anywhere.”

Terry feels that a student escort service should be available to complement this service whether students request it or not.
Terry said students should have “the option to assume responsibility for their own safety.” As to why the escort service
was not being used last year, Chairman of the Patterson Court Council Lisa McNeilly commented that girls are embarrassed to
get an official escort because such protective action or concerns over campus security are often considered as “overreactions.” She added,
“As for me, I'd rather just ask a friend to walk me back.”

According to Rape Crisis Committee chairperson Melissa McLemore, students seem very protective and defensive concerning the issue of Davidson’s campus
safety and are deceived by what Terry describes as “the myth that Davidson’s campus is invulnerable to the outside.” Terry
remarked, “Students perpetuate an idealistic image of Davidson and its security... which promotes carelessness in behavior.” Terry made it clear
that “nobody here is safer than they take responsibility to be,” and students must adjust their attitudes accordingly and take
precautions.

A major concern for students studying late at night in Chambers is that there is no phone and they are
forced to walk back to the dorms alone with no other alternative. Thrower said the campus police has definite plans
for installing on Chambers’ second floor an emergency phone with a direct line to the campus police headquarters so that
needed escorts can be contacted and used from there at late hours. The campus police routinely check all rooms in
Chambers hourly after the library closes.

Many students have also expressed frustrations concerning the lighting problem in relation to campus security. Terry is distressed by the
quantity of lights that have been vandalized this year by students. He said all the lights that were installed this
year through the middle of Patterson Court have been torn down by unidentified students.

Terry expressed a very positive attitude toward campus security, commenting that: “We have the best and most cooperative, intelligent, and
concerned security force ever. They are individuals who care about and communicate with students.” He expressed hopes that the SGA
Security and Parking Committee would be sensitive to student needs by taking such significant steps as providing a student escort
system.

McLemore hopes too that the Committee of Security and Parking will take a stand on campus issues and play an
active role in treating them. She feels that students must not assume it is the school’s responsibility to protect them
but that they must “make it their business to speak up, be aware, and not foster any sense of false
security concerning campus security.” McLemore suggested having a work-study security system similar to the one existing at Georgetown University in
which trained students would supplement the security force in patrolling and keeping an eye on the campus while being available
to escort girls at request. Such students would act as “deterrent bodies” and be less conspicuous than campus police.

Presenting another perspective, McNeilly said that at Virginia Tech the honor code firmly states that a guy cannot refuse to
escort a girl back to a dorm, though this may be unnecessary at Davidson.

McLemore expressed that she was personally impressed that Davidson security had increased its patrolling and had made an effort to
get to know students and be in touch with the campus community. She said she was disappointed in the student
apathy towards and abuse of security measures. In light of campus security, students have requested installing emergency phones in Chambers
on each floor and in the art building and increasing lighting along Patterson Court back to the dorms, in Jackson
Court, on the track, and through the center of Patterson Court.

CAROLINA BANK

$60 PER HUNDRED PAID for remailing letters from home! Send self-addressed, stamped envelope for information, application. Associates, Box 95-B, Roselle,
N.J. 07203.

I-77 at Hwy 73 Lake Norman 892-7805

137 N. Main St. Davidson 892-7815
