Thursday, December 19, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson
Headlining the week of December 10-16—

Central and South American News —
Newly appointed defense secretary Adm. John Poindexter made a secret five-nation tour of Central America to enlist more support for the U.S. position against the Sandinista government of Nicaragua. Back in the U.S., an interfaith group known as Quest for Peace announced that it will raise $27 million to aid Nicaraguan civilians; the figure matches the amount pledged by the Reagan administration for non-military aid to the anti-Sandinista rebels. In El Salvador, guerilla leaders asked the Salvadoran government to join them in a holiday ceasefire; as of late, the government has declined to participate. Guatemala elected Vinicio Cerezo, a center-left Christian democrat, to be its new president. For the first time in Latin American history, five former Argentinian military officers were convicted of human rights violations committed under the government during the 1970s. In Colombia, leftist rebels kidnapped two American engineers employed by Occidental Petroleum and Bechtel Group Co.; the guerillas are demanding $6 million from the corporations as a condition for the release of the Americans.

African News —
In the biggest trial of dissidents in over twenty years, South African courts withdrew charges against twelve black and Asian political leaders; the acquittal restores to the United Democratic Front (an anti-apartheid umbrella organization comprised of more than two million people) many of its key political leaders. Blacks have instigated a “Black Christmas” boycott of white-owned businesses in a further effort to pressure whites to join their call for the government to lift the state of emergency and withdraw its soldiers from the townships. Meanwhile, a monitoring group reported that as of December, South African police had jailed nearly 9,000 people for rioting against white rule. In the U.S., the first installment of a covert aid package to UNITA (the rebels fighting Angola’s Marxist regime) has been tentatively approved but delayed until January in hopes that the possibility of such aid will pressure the Angolan government to withdraw the 35,000 Cuban troops stationed there. In Uganda, a peace pact is reportedly to be signed between the government and its guerilla rivals. Iawait-Wolde Giorgis, Marxist Ethiopia's top famine relief official, is missing and believed to be seeking asylum in the U.S.

European News —
British and Irish officials met in Belfast to begin the implementation of the Nov. 15 accord which gives the Catholic Republic of Ireland a role in the governmental affairs of the predominately Protestant province of Northern Ireland. In London, speaking to the U.S.-British group known as the Pilgrim’s Society, Secretary of State George Shultz urged the European allies to lend support to Washington’s covert aid programs in Afghanistan, Cambodia, Nicaragua, and Angola. Later in the week at a NATO ministerial meeting in Brussels, Belgium, a U.S.-proposed plan to limit to 140 the number of American and Soviet medium-range missile launchers in Europe was endorsed; the ministers also pledged to take measures to curb the costly consequence of arms duplication. In France, scientists filed suit against the U.S., demanding recognition of their claim to the initial discovery of the AIDS virus. Meanwhile, the organizers of an AIDS benefit held on Nov. 25 in Paris, reported Friday that $246,000 was raised to fund the research of the deadly disease.

Soviet-related News —
The Kremlin announced that Sergei Gorshkov (75), the man considered to be the father of the Soviet submarine forces, was relieved of his duties as deputy defense minister and head of the Soviet fleet and replaced by Admiral Vladimir Chernavin. It was also announced that Boris Gostev will replace Vasily Garbuzov as the country’s new finance minister; Garbuzov died Nov. 12. On Friday, the U.S. said that it would work to negotiate a political settlement in Afghanistan that would involve the withdrawal of Soviet troops and an end to U.S. aid to the rebels; negotiations on the accord are currently being sponsored by the U.N. Meanwhile, a party of American businessmen accompanied by Malcolm Baldrige went to the U.S.S.R. to discuss future trade arrangements between the U.S. and U.S.S.R. As part of an art exchange agreement signed Friday, the Soviet Union will send works by such reputable artists as Cezanne, Renoir, Monet, Van Gogh, Matisse, and Picasso for two special exhibits in the U.S.

Other international developments —
In the Philippines, after negotiating their differences, Salvador Laurel agreed to run as vice president on a ticket with Corazon Aquino; the two will oppose Ferdinand Marcos and Arturo Tolentino in the Feb. 7 presidential elections. If elected, Aquino says that she may put Marcos on trial for the 1983 murder of her husband Benigno Aquino, who was a leading opponent of Marcos. In the Mideast, the 13 members of OPEC announced they will begin competing with other independent oil-producing countries; officials report that this may mean lower oil prices in the U.S. On Monday, Israel expressed concern over Syria’s deployment of surface-to-air missiles on the Lebanese-Israeli border; the Syrian missiles threaten Israel’s regular reconnaissance flights over Lebanon.

Davidson native accepts counseling post
By JIM DILLON
Davidson native Brenda Tapia has been hired to assist Charlie Summers in the college chaplain’s office and to work with the student counseling service. “The opportunity to work at Davidson is a godsend,” Tapia said. “All of the places I’ve...worked previously have been with very poor blacks and whites, and this job will give me the opportunity to deal with the other extreme. I want to become as well-rounded as possible.” Tapia was just visiting her parents when she learned of the position at Davidson. “Having grown up here, I won't have as much to learn, get used to, and understand,” Tapia said. “I think in counseling, history is always important. When someone has a problem, it’s not something that has just come overnight. It grows. Since I am familiar with Davidson and know some of its history, it will enable me to move more quickly.”

Tapia said black students may find it easier to talk to her than some of the other counselors. “If you feel like your problem is really with one particular group, then you don't want to talk to someone who is in that group. I think it’s much easier to talk with someone who knows the situation,” Tapia said.

Tapia said she does not see racism as a problem at Davidson although she says there is a lack of understanding. “I don't see racism here,” Tapia said. “The past few weeks as I’ve been walking around the campus, what I have noticed is a lack of knowledge. People are afraid of the unknown, and there haven't been a lot of opportunities to get to know each other. People are people, and until you are with someone, you can't realize that ‘Hey, you're no different than I am.’ I’ve experienced racism, but what exists here is a lack of awareness. There are years of separation that have built walls, and we’ve got to break them down.”

Tapia graduated from North Mecklenburg High School in 1967. She received a bachelor’s degree in psychology from Howard University and has worked for ten years in the counseling profession. She attended the Interdenominational Theological Center in Atlanta and received her degree from Johnson C. Smith University. She has also served as an intern at Grady Hospital as its chaplain.

Most college chaplains are required to have weekly services, according to Tapia, but since Davidson College Presbyterian Church is on campus, Tapia said her role as assistant chaplain will be more casual. “I'll be able to hang out with the students and help people realize that God is everywhere,” Tapia said. “Too often people limit God’s presence to a church building, but God is everywhere. I want to be an active part of the campus by attending basketball games and activities, study breaks, the dorms, and just chewing the fat and having rap sessions.

“Davidson is going to provide students with an excellent academic education, but as I see it, there are two worlds -- the physical and the spiritual. When you leave Davidson, there are a lot of things you'll encounter that academics won't enable you to handle, but people who believe in Christ know that there's nothing we can't handle.”

Tapia added that this job will enable her to give something back to Davidson. “Davidson gave me a lot when I was growing up,” Tapia said. “When I was a young child, I enjoyed mental stimulation and cultural things. There aren't many opportunities for that in the black community, but Davidson gave me those opportunities whereas if I'd been locked into the black community, I wouldn't have experienced them. I saw my first ballet at Davidson. The first orchestra I ever saw was also at Davidson. It was a tutor from Davidson that got me to apply to Howard. He encouraged me and told me how to do it, so I see this as an opportunity to give something back to Davidson.”

Finally, visiting Romania as part of a three-nation tour of Eastern Europe, Secretary of State Shultz warned President Ceausescu that unless it improves its human rights record, Romania could lose its favored trade status with the U.S.

National News — In Gander, Newfoundland, a DC8 charter plane carrying 248 American soldiers returning from a Mideast peace-keeping mission crashed and killed all persons aboard. Voting 271-154 in the House and 61-31 in the Senate, Congress passed the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings bill to balance the federal budget by 1991; attached to the bill is a measure to raise the national debt limit to $2.1 trillion. As part of the new budget control measures, the U.S. will end its funding of UNIFIL, the U.S. peace-keeping force in southern Lebanon. The Senate approved former Indiana Governor Otis Bowen as secretary of health and human services. In other governmental decisions, President Reagan signed a directive that will require lie detector tests for all government employees and contractors who already have or want to obtain high-level security clearances; the directive is in response to the recent wave of spy scandals and press leaks.

Other national news — The American Medical Association called for a complete ban on the media advertisement of all tobacco products. In what will be the largest non-oil acquisition in corporate history, G.E. announced that it will buy RCA for $6.2 billion. Florida Congressman Bill Nelson will be among the seven-member crew of the space shuttle Columbia when it leaves for a five-day mission on Wednesday; Nelson will conduct an experiment that will hopefully advance cancer research in chemotherapy. Finally, actress Anne Baxter, who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage Dec. 4, died last Thursday.

Thought for the week: Enjoy a safe and restful Christmas vacation.