Fraternity Put On Social Probation

Sigma Alpha Epsilon will be put on social probation next month as punishment for accidentally starting a fire on the
roof of Knox dormitory last Sunday, according to Dean of Students Will Terry.

Terry said social activities will be banned from May 7 until May 22 for the incident, which occurred when SAE
members ignited fireworks as part of the fraternity “rundown,” in which SAE pledges attack the fraternity house. Terry said the
rundown will not be allowed “ever.”

Though the fire caused no damage, according to Terry, fraternity members violated a ban he ordered on fireworks in fraternity
activity earlier this year.

Terry said he also suggested that the fraternity pursue a project of their choosing “to enhance the beauty of the
campus.” According to Terry, the fraternity did not contest the action. “They accepted responsibility that they had done the wrong
thing,” he said. Terry announced the disciplinary action at the SAE meeting on Tuesday.

SAE President Gerald Meyer said the action was “fully deserved.” He said the fraternity “blatantly disregarded” Terry’s ban on fireworks.
“We're sincere in our regret,” he said.

News Summary

Friday, April 26, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Locks Prove Effective

The recently installed electric combination lock system on Knox dormitory “is causing more confusion than anything else,” according to Chief
of Security Jackie Hughes. Director of Housing Bill Bolding said, “From what I've heard from students down there, they like
it.” The system, implemented at a cost of $1,000, includes an electric combination alarm and new locks for the three
outside doors required by the combination, with the main doors being locked at night.

Bolding said eventually some kind of security device will be placed on all dormitories. “We’re going to put a system
in elsewhere,” he stated, “probably this one; it looks very promising.” Hughes recommended the SIMPLEX system for future dorm installations,
adding that that system involved changeable locks on every door, which he said, “would help us [the security staff] tremendously.”

Mary Edwards, Resident Advisor for Knox dormitory, commented, “It’s difficult to say right now exactly how successful or unsuccessful the
lock system at Knox has been... time will tell whether this system will be successful at thwarting these security problems.
There have been a few kinks to be worked out, but I think they are being worked out. I believe
it is an effective system.”

MEN: Summer. Counselors needed for coed resident camp located on Lake Wylie. Openings for WSIs, Water, Skiing, Sailing, Gymnastics, Tennis,
and General Sports. Contact: Director, Camp Thunderbird, Rt. 7, Box 50, Clover, S.C., 29710. Ph. 803-831-2121.

WANTED: RIDING MASTER for summer resident camp, 23 horses and program for 120 campers, 21-plus, must have extensive knowledge about
English riding. Contact: Director, Camp Thunderbird, Rt. 7, Box 50, Clover, S.C., 29710. Ph. 803-2121.

1-77 at Hwy 73

UNITED
Cornelius/Lake Norman

137. N. Main St. 292-7805

Davidson
892-7815

Georgetown University

Summer Sessions

Programs at home Programs abroad
Over 200 graduate and undergraduate courses China—Chinese Culture
Dijon, France—French
Approaches to Teaching Writing
English as a Foreign Language
Government Internships
High School Programs
Intercultural Training
Interpretation and Translation Institute
Language Courses
Fiesole, Italy—Italian
Greece—Life and Thought in Ancient Greece
Leningrad, U.S.S.R.—Russian
Oxford, England—Business Administration
Quito, Ecuador—Spanish
Liberation Theology Conference Trier, West Germany—German
Literary Criticism

Send more information:
Name
Address
Zip
Call (202) 625-8106 or mail to:
SSCE—Georgetown University
306 Intercultural Center
Washington, D.C. 20057

Georgetown University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action institution in employment and admissions.

James Taylor Crosby, Stills, & Nash America

Jackson Browne The Beatles Santana The Eagles
The Doobie Brothers Warren Zevon Elvis Costello
Cat Stevens
Simon & Garfunkel
Fleetwood Mac
etc., etc.

fantastic originals!!!

SPRING, GOODRICH, & ZOGGIN

Coming to Davidson on April 26th

A Concert 200 Room intimate show

Don't Miss It!
