2 Friday, February 1, 1985 / The Davidsonian — NEWS SUMMARY

Women’s Week Features Speakers, Discussions

Speakers, discussions, performers, and films will highlight this year's Women’s Week. Sponsored by the Women’s Concerns Committee, the event will
run Tuesday through Friday.

Jean Kilbourne, keynote speaker for the event, will present a talk at 8:15 p.m. Tuesday in Love Auditorium entitled “The
Naked Truth: Advertising’s Image of Women.” The speech will address modern advertising’s dehumanization of both men and women. A reception
will follow in the Morrison Room. Tuesday afternoon, Kilbourne will be available for discussion at 4:30 p.m. in the Union
Conversation Pit.

On Wednesday, Dr. Mary Lee Daugherty will speak at the Open Luncheon on her experiences with women and their problems
in Appalachia. That night, poets Julie Suk and Rebecca Devet will read from their works at 7:30 p.m. in the
900 Room.

Missy Kuykendall will lead a seminar on “Risk-taking and Assertiveness” at 4 p.m. Thursday in the Big Screen Room. At
7:30, English Professor John Engell will introduce the week’s fine film Persona, which will be shown at 8:15 in Love
Auditorium.

Friday, Daugherty will present a videotape and lead a discussion at 2:30 p.m. in the Big Screen Room. At 10
and 11:30 p.m., singer Barbara Bailey will perform in the 900 Room.

Saunders Visits Davidson As Wilson Fellow

Dr. Harold H. Saunders, a former assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern and South Asian affairs, will spend the
week of Feb. 3 at Davidson College as a Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow.

While serving in the State Department, Saunders was involved in every Middle Eastern crisis from 1974 to 1981. He was
a drafter of the five Arab-Israeli agreements signed during the period and headed the Iran Working Group during the hostage
crisis, aiding in negotiations that eventually led to their release.

During his week at Davidson, Saunders will conduct five separate discussions that are open to the public without charge. Monday
at 1 p.m., Saunders will speak on “The U.S. Looks at the World in the 1980s and 1990s” during a
luncheon meeting at the Center for Special Studies. While admission to the talk is free, the lunch costs $1.25. Later
on Monday, Saunders will discuss “The Middle East” at 3 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the Davidson College Union.
He will conclude his Monday schedule with a discussion on “Foreign Policy Making in Washington” at 7:30 p.m. in the
900 Room of the Union.

Tuesday, he will discuss “Crisis Management” at 3 p.m. in the Union's Morrison Room and, Thursday he will hold his
last public presentation in the Morrison Room at 3 p.m. when he discusses “Negotiation.”

Thursday evening at 6 p.m., Saunders will attend a “sign-up” dinner in the Union Conference Room, and, at 7 p.m.,
he will discuss careers in foreign affairs with interested students. In addition, on Monday and Tuesday at 10:30 a.m., Wednesday
at 11 a.m., and Thursday and Friday at 10 a.m. Saunders will conduct informal discussion sessions with interested persons in
the Union’s Conversation Pit.

During the remainder of his visit, he will meet informally with students, attend several classes, and participate in a number
of College activities.

Saunders began his 20-year career in government in 1961 as a member of the National Security Council’s (NSC) White House
staff, a post he held until 1974. In 1974, he moved to the Department of State, serving as a deputy
assistant secretary until 1975, when he was appointed director of intelligence and research. In that position, he provided a worldwide
analytical and intelligence base for government policymaking.

In 1978, Saunders was appointed assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern and South Asian affairs. That same year, President
Jimmy Carter presented him the President's Award for Distinguished Federal Civilian Service, the government’s highest award for civilian employees, for
his work on the Camp David Peace Accords.

During the course of his work with the NSC and State Department, Saunders was centrallyInvolved with America’s strategic build-up in
Southwest Asia, the 1973-74 oil embargo, Henry Kissinger’s shuttle diplomacy, secession, the Lebanese civil war, and the development of current
U.S.-Saudi Arabian relations. Saunders, who earned his undergraduate degree from Princeton University and holds a doctorate from Yale University, retired
from government service with the change of administrations in 1981. A native of Philadelphia, Saunders currently resides in McLean, Va.,
and works as a resident fellow for the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research in Washington, D.C.

The Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellows program has placed Visiting Fellows on the campuses of 162 American colleges since the program
began in 1973. Fellows are recruited by the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation from the areas of business, public service,
and other non-academic professions. Fellows on the Davidson campus in recent years include Senator James W. Fulbright, Joan D. Manley,
Senator Dick Clark, Maxine Kumin, Dr. Joseph English, and William M. Dyal. The Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation has developed
and conducted programs in higher education since 1945.

Seniors Choose Class Gift

The Class of 1985 chose, by a two-to-one margin over its second most vote-getting option, to endow Davidson with a
minority scholarship. According to the executive class gift committee, co-chaired by seniors Martha Nelson and Shep Robinson, the goal of
this year’s seniors will be to raise $75,000 over a five-year period — that averages to $45 per person for
five years if all seniors join in the giving. Once completed, the endowed gift will yield a minority scholarship each
year worth approximately $3,700.

Senior class president Warren Gould was “very pleased” with the class vote. “This minority scholarship will give the College a
clear and insistent message — that we, the seniors of Davidson, support, encourage, and will do our part to improve
the minority experience at our alma mater,” Gould said. The final details of the scholarship’s requirements and guidelines have yet
to be determined by the executive committee, which has, according to Gould, “put in many dedicated and tedious hours” and
done a “fantastic job.” All seniors interested in working with the fundraising for the gift should contact Mike Wilkinson or
Tony Holt preferably within the next week.

CCRL Votes On SPE Options

Monday, the Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) voted on options under which Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity could return
to Patterson Court. Dean of Students Will Terry outlined the options before the CCRL and may recommend one or several
of them to President John Kuykendall, who will make the final decision. Terry presented six options before the CCRL, which
voted on each proposal individually. Two proposals received overwhelming support. Ten CCRL members favored an option of allowing SPE to
return to the Court as a social fraternity with restrictions on how many members it could have; two voted against
this proposal and four abstained. The vote was 12-1-3 in favor of allowing SPE to have a Court house and
operate as a social fraternity with the stipulation that SPE’s non-eating status be reviewed by the Dean of Students and
the CCRL to determine if it threatens other eating houses on the court.

Several other proposals were defeated, namely permitting SPE to return with no restrictions or on the condition that it start
serving meals within a certain amount of time. Ideally, SPE wants to return as a social fraternity, and SPE president
Steve MacMillan said his fraternity would reconsider its options should it be required to serve meals if it opens a
Court house.

CELEBRATE Valentine’s Day the Davidsonian way. Submit your epistles of love, limited to 30 words, to our trained and capable
staff and watch your Valentine’s dreams come true. Messages should be left at Union Desk; deadline for submissions is Wednesday,
February 6 at 7 p.m. Don’t miss out on this rare and special opportunity to adulate the one you love.
Submit today!
