Friday, January 11, 1985 / The Davidsonian

Film Festival Captures Foreign Culture, People

By CRAIG DETWEILER

Foreign Films. The mere mention of the words strikes fear and confusion into the hearts of almost all Americans. Standard
adjectives for motion pictures like “flash,” “entertaining,” and “enjoyable” are replaced by “weird,” “unintelligible,” and “stupid.” The Union Fine Film
Committee, risking financial security and campus-wide reputation, has scheduled a foreign film festival running January 14-19.

Before running to the exit at the first sight of a caption, consider the rich international productions available next week.
Two of the four films warranted recognition in Sight and Sound’s international critics poll of the ten best movies of
all time. We’re not dealing in best of the year, but best ever. Care to argue with snooty, high-brow critics?
Then consider the heartfelt, innovative stories offered within the series. Forgoing the wham-bang, splish-splash, warp-speed mentality of typical Hollywood fare,
these creations of France, Germany, and Japan focus on a vanishing subject — the human condition. Each film offers a
glimpse of its culture, its people, and its values. The “foreign” enables the audience to relate to universal truths about
the game of love, the abuse of women, the trials of youth, the darkness of the heart, the hope of
dreams, and the problem of judgment. The alien and foreign begin to appear vaguely familiar once an honest, open mind
has been brought to the theatre.

I invite you to investigate the foreign film festival. Bring glasses for the captions, the international characters. To lessen the
cultural gap, brief capsule previews will provide necessary background.

Jean Renoir’s La Regle du jeu, or Rules of the Game, offers a humorous, penetrating look at social interaction between
classes. The complexities and trials created by love between the aristocracy and the bourgeois mirror the tensions of pre-war France.
Made in 1939, Renoir’s film captures the tense mood of a society about to be torn apart by another world
war. While dealing with contemporary subject matter, Renoir turns to baroque music and classical French comedy for his inspiration. The
Rules of the Game entertains and challenges the viewer, embodying a people, a time, and a universal problem.

Tuesday’s film, Kenji Mizoguchi’s Ugetsu Monogatari, shares the top ten accolades of La Regle du jeu. Presented in 1953, Ugetsu
focuses upon the gnawing yearnings of Japanese men, caught between the rising work ethic and the fading samurai tradition. Behind
the struggling male egos lie Japanese women desperate for attention and respect within their culture. Ugetsu, a simple 16th-century potter,
encounters a passionate and a drab aspect of Japanese culture, ultimately finding both to be a dream. From a country
absorbed by the elusive American Dream, Ugetsu speaks to all peoples’ aspirations and failures.

Fritz Lang’s German classic, M, treats a more traditional cinematic subject, murder, in grand, eerie style. Starring the quirky, bug-eyed
Peter Lorre as a child murderer, M examines the sickness behind the criminal mind and the sickness created by human
judgment. Tension mounts throughout the picture as underground vigilantes seek to outdistance the police in tracking the murderer marked by
an “M” on his coat. Lang concentrates upon showing rather than telling his audience what’s occurring on-screen. Exploiting the full
potential of a visual medium, Lang focuses upon Lorre’s haunted looks, the setting’s disquieting atmosphere, and the camera’s ability to
exaggerate images. A powerful, jarring film results.

After

---

Sunday 12 Noon till 9:00 P.M.
241 SOUTH BROAD STREET—MOORESVILLE—663-3030

BUFFET — ALL YOU CAN EAT —
Mooresville’s First And Finest Italian Restaurant

KING Of PIZZA

Tues., Wed. & Thurs. 5 P.M. till 9 P.M.

SPAGHETTI
100% Durham Wheat
OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE
FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD
PARMESAN—ROMANO CHEESE

SALAD BAR
45 Items
FRESH GREEN VEGETABLES
DELICIOUS FRUITS
FLAVORFUL MEATS
RICH DRESSINGS
TASTY CHEESES
WINE CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE
DESSERT-TEMPTING HAWAIIAN SALAD

ALL FOR $2.99 PER PERSON
SPECIAL RATES FOR CHILDREN UNDER 12—25¢ PER YEAR

Meal Includes:
PIZZA
Still Mooresville's Finest
SPICY PEPPERONI
CANADIAN BACON
ITALIAN SAUSAGE
CHOICE BEEF
FRESHLY DICED GREEN PEPPERS
SWEET ONIONS

SOUP OF THE DAY
CREAM OF POTATO
VEGETABLE BEEF STOCK
CHICKEN NOODLE
CHILI CON CARNE

Lunch Buffet—Mon.-Sat., 11 AM-2:30 PMa Monday through Wednesday bonanza, the Fine Film Festival concludes Saturday with Francois Truffaut’s homage to
his youth, The 400 Blows. Like the other directors, Truffaut advances filmmaking through innovative technique and heartfelt characterization. Truffaut uses
The 400 Blows to introduce Antoine Doinel, a semi-autobiographical figure who reappears in subsequent Truffaut works. Scenes of Antoine’s Parisian
home, neglecting parents, and neighborhood school educate the viewer about the hero. When Antoine eventually resorts to petty crimes, the
audience sympathizes with the boy’s plight. Truffaut creates a heartwarming valentine to lost innocence and painful maturation. The 400 Blows
concludes the festival with a quiet, passionate examination of the human condition, destined to draw both laughter and tears from
the audience. Regardless of one’s prejudices about the purpose of cinema, the four fine foreign films screening next week demand
serious, thoughtful attention. Viewers who dare to face the challenge of reading captions or listening to dubbed voices will find
rich cinematic treasure. Take a risk, check out a flick. You'll find heartwarming drama, light comedy, and tough questions coming
from the screen. Whatever your conclusions, you'll be glad to join the select few who've dared to confront and conquer
their Fear of Foreign Films.

Gorky Park: Intense Drama
By MATT MORRIS

Gorky Park, this week’s Pop Film, has the rare distinction of being a novel-into-movie that transcends the piece of literature
upon which it is based. Martin Cruz Smith’s engrossing if ultimately empty story of murder behind the iron curtain left
the reader with an unsatisfying conclusion and plenty of questions. The plot concerned Arkady, a determined Russian policeman, and his
investigations into a particularly grotesque murder in Moscow’s infamous Gorky Park. As the novel unwound, the well-intentioned Arkady found himself
trapped in a Kremlin conspiracy where his honorable methods of detection mean nothing in the face of corrupt government. The
book ended with Arkady unable to triumph over the evil KGB or his own restlessness. An unsettling conclusion if there
ever was one, and Smith unfortunately gave his hero no release, no form of protest and the novel remains not
profound but stuporous and tired.

Director Michael Apted (Coal Miner’s Daughter), one of our most efficient and reliable artists working today (and one of the
most underrated) ties his Gorky Park up in a sly, mystical knot giving the film’s premise meat and meaning. And
where the plot muddles (the first hour has some rough sledding) Apted saves the day through the power of sheer
momentum. There is a murder, an investigation and a coverup, all told with such energy that you know you're in
for quite a ride from the first frame. Opening with a deceptively picturesque view of ice skating in Gorky Park
(shot from a dizzyingly low level), the film’s first few sequences hint at the intense drama that lies ahead. Apted
keeps the movie zinging, all the while probing and poking at the Russian government's less-than-perfect methods of operation.

Gorky Park — the film — is a tale of double agents and double entendre that at times reaches almost
Shakespearean heights (complete with complex characters and situations). With William Hurt in the lead role of Arkady, battling the evil
and cynical-as-ever Lee Marvin, the film absorbs the viewer like few others of this genre. Fitting perfectly into this steam
engine of a movie, Hurt, an intelligent guy great at playing intelligent guys, captures Smith's Arkady in a wonderfully understated
way; his portrayal is straightforward and honest. Sure, it was a little crazy casting Hurt as a Russian law enforcer,
but you quickly forget he’s from New Jersey and quickly remember what a reliable performer he’s been in the past
few years. And Lee Marvin hasn't had a role as tasty as this since Point Blank. Watching him menace others,
oozing slime through those dark sheep dog eyes, Marvin seems to be having the time of his life. And what's
the saying, the better the villain the better the movie? Both are splendid.

SUNDAY MONDAY RENT 2 TAPES GET 1 FREE VCR RENTAL MACHINES AVAILABLE

Cathy’s VIDEO
HWY 115 CORNELIUS 892-3165
One Block South Of CASHIONS
SUN. 1-7 - MON. - THURS. 10-7
NO MEMBERSHIP FEES
VHS & BETAS
Over 825 Movies
FRI. & SAT. 10-8
