The Davidsonian  
Volume LXXIV, Number 19  
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036  
Friday, April 19, 1985  

RAPE Draws Suggestions For Campus Safeguards  
By TOM SCHILLING  

The RAPE Committee, in cooperation with the SGA, has tabulated the results of their recently-distributed campus-wide security survey. The results indicate that although most students felt relatively safe at Davidson, many want to see some security improvements, particularly in patrolling procedure, outdoor lighting, and emergency phone availability. 

RAPE Committee Chairperson Melissa McLemore, along with Dean of Students Will Terry and Chief of Security Jackie Hughes, met with Facilities Planning Director Grover Meetze midway through the term to discuss the issue. Their opinions differed widely, according to McLemore, so they agreed to a survey. “We wanted to see what students wanted,” McLemore said. 

SGA Senators distributed the surveys. Questions included: “How effective do you feel our present security is? Would you like to see increased patrolling? Where? Gauge the effectiveness of the dorm locking system?” and several others. The largest responses came from freshmen and from women. “Of all responses, 67 percent were female and 87 percent were from dorm residents.” Although many students were unsure of their opinions, a majority agreed that more patrolling and lighting was a good idea. Areas considered particularly unsafe included the new parking lots, the stadium and track, the wooded area behind the Commons, and all of Patterson Court. 

McLemore added: “All these proposals are still Band-Aids in my opinion. We really need changes in attitudes.” She felt that patrolmen needed to get to know students and to cover more than just dorm lounges and central walkways in their rounds. “I want patrolling in study areas like DCPC and Phi Hall.” In addition, she emphasized the need for police escorts at night. One suggestion was golf carts or similar open vehicles to replace the Cushman carts presently used. The officer could hear better and could see more as well. McLemore pointed out that “If you were stealing a bicycle you could hear a Cushman a mile away.” She added that perhaps the new open vehicles could make less noise. 

On the whole, Davidson's security system was judged favorably by the students. Within the past year, at least, criminal incidents or other events warranting intervention by security were rare. However, a few occurred. In the results of this recent survey, many students, particularly women, merely requested some small improvements. 

Freshman David Cowie demonstrates his frisbee technique, as the campus community prepares to face off in the third annual frisbee golf tournament. See the story on page 7.

N.C. Fellows Program To Undergo Revamping  
By DAVID VAN PELT  

The Davidson N.C. Fellows Program needs revamping. That is the consensus of a group of N.C. Fellows and program administrators who are currently reexamining and changing the program. 

“I think the feeling among students selected to be N.C. Fellows is that they didn’t know why they were there and what their purpose is,” said Harriet Root, Assistant Director of the Careers Office and program director of the N.C. Fellow Program. Root said current N.C. Fellows thought the program did not meet their expectations when they joined the program. 

Each year, the program, established in 1967, chooses eight to ten members of the sophomore class judged to have leadership potential and seeks to develop that potential through leadership workshops, seminars with community leaders, and interaction with N.C. Fellows on other college campuses, according to an N.C. Fellows brochure. 

Root said four Davidson Fellows became interested in revamping the Davidson program after they attended the Center for Creative Leadership in Greensboro during Christmas vacation, an activity funded by N.C. Fellows. Juniors Sara Beasley, Edward Hay, Allen Mast, and Beadsie Woo attended the Center this year, according to Root, and received input on how to add more direction and activities to the program. The four students have found a Fellows core group composed of about five members which meets weekly to consider changes in the program and discuss issues concerning the group. 

According to Woo, the four students who attended the Center were able to see the Davidson N.C. Fellows program in...comparison to Fellows programs at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, North Carolina State, and North Carolina A&T. Woo said the other North Carolina Fellows programs are generally more “viable, active groups on their campuses.” At Davidson, she said, “no one has ever known what is expected of them.”

Woo said it is important to establish concrete guidelines to inform Fellows of their responsibilities within the group. “We do want people to take it [the Fellows] seriously. That has been a problem.” According to Hay, “I really didn't feel like I was getting much out of the program. It felt like a resume stuffer.” Hay said the group has rarely acted upon the optimistic plans outlined by the group each year during its autumn retreat. “But the potential for the Fellows is tremendous,” he said.

Hay said since Christmas the Fellows have formed six committees to deal with important concerns within the group. The accountability committee, he said, addresses “the very core of our problem.” This committee considers the degree to which Fellows should be responsible for group activities and community service. Root said many of the eight Fellows’ faculty advisors as well as Fellows themselves have pressed concern about whether the group should be required to “give something back” in return for the benefits Fellows receive. Fellows can receive aid and financial reimbursement for internships, dinners and luncheons, and meetings with community business leaders. “We want members to feel they have a responsibility to Fellows,” he said.

Hay said two committees deal with planning activities for next fall, winter, and spring. The committees, he said, wish to organize a concrete list of activities for next fall and a more speculative schedule for winter and spring. The Fellows mentor system, according to Hay, “has been something that hasn’t worked very well in the past.” Under this aspect of the Fellows program, eight faculty and administrative officials form personal relationships with individual Fellows. A mentors’ committee will consider changes in this program.

Another committee addresses the Fellows selection system. The current selection system is based upon an application form and essay which narrows the field to 16 to 20 applicants, and the interview teams consisting of Fellows, faculty members, and community leaders which make the final selection. The committee is examining the viability of this system, Root said, and planning to alter the Fellows brochure sent to freshmen the summer before their sophomore year, describing the program. By creating a more definite list of responsibilities for Fellows in the brochure, according to Woo, new Fellows will be more aware of Fellows activities. “If we can communicate to freshmen, this will be more enthusiastic within the group,” she said.

According to Root, the Fellows have conducted several activities since Christmas to increase unity in the group. She said Fellows have used the Initiatives Course behind Erwin Lodge, an obstacle course requiring group participation. Fellows have also made video tapes of hypothetical problem-solving sessions among groups of Fellows. Dean of Students Will Terry, co-chairman of the program directors, praised the changes being made in the Fellows program. He said he hoped they would result in “more formal, actual training” for Fellows. “The impetus [for program changes] came from the students themselves, which is exactly where it should come from.”

Though Root said most Fellows’ mentors desire at least some changes in the Fellows program, there remains a “disparity of opinion” about how extensive those changes should be. Sophomore Fellow Stephen Harrison disagreed with the notion that Fellows should be required to “put something back” into the community as part of the program. “Presumably, we were chosen because we're already putting something in,” he said. According to Harrison, the constraints cause him to miss Fellow programs rather than lack of interest. “Certainly the things I have not gone to have not been because I didn’t believe in them, but because I didn't have the time.” He said he thought the program changes are “headed in the right direction,” but he thinks the primary purpose of the Fellows should be as a “support group” to stimulate new ideas among members.