Opinions Ross Holt

You never give me your money
You only give me your funny papers
And in the middle of negotiation
You break down...
—The Beatles

It’s spring again, and at Davidson that means lake campus, lying out, and baseball. It also means new Davidsonian editors, a new SGA president, and time once again for the Activities Tax Council’s (ATC) yearly romp through the groves of petty bureaucracy. The ATC is, of course, the SGA council charged with allocating funds to student-run organizations on campus. Along with the chairperson, five other students, the Dean of Students, the Union director and Board president, and the business manager sit on the council. They meet before the end of April each year to spread around the student activity fee collected in our tuitions, usually totaling around $65,000, among 10 or so funded organizations.

Last year’s ATC was a charade, a joke which would have been funny had it not done such a grave disservice to students and their money. This year, SGA President Beadsie Woo has appointed a competent senior, Anne Miano, to chair the council. As an SGA senator, Miano has worked closely with SGA councils and committees this year, advocating better Senate oversight. She was also JYA during last spring’s ATO fiasco, when students actually tried to call on the carpet the bumbling results of the ATC’s work.

Miano and the rest of this year’s council can serve the students well if they do not fall into the same traps which captured last year’s ATC. And that is the point of this article — to reflect on some of the mistakes last year’s body made, in hopes that this year’s group can better represent the students, what they need and what they want.

Unrepresentativeness. Chief among the flaws of last year’s ATC was that it showed little concern for what students wanted it to consider. Though students cannot attend the council’s proceedings, council members should make themselves aware of student sentiment concerning the distribution of funds. SGA senators, too, should remember that they have a duty to review ATC recommendations critically and request changes, if necessary.

Many students last year, for instance, questioned the $6000 the ATC gave to the Black Student Coalition (BSC). The BSC received a handsome increase when it moved into its Patterson Court house, and the amount has been growing ever since. Admittedly this is a touchy issue, but it generates a significant amount of grumbling each year. Some students do not see a need for 50 people to receive that much money, and think of it merely as “guilt money.” Students who belong to other houses on the court do not see any logic in paying a social fee to one house while at the same time subsidizing another through their activity fees. On the other hand, the BSC has a strong case for the funds, considering the way Davidson has traditionally treated blacks. The BSC has also had to bear financially the burden of the College’s unwillingness, up until now, to recruit minority students. The nuances of this dilemma are too complex to deal with here, but the ATC must deal with them. The students want this issue discussed, and if ATC members would put their ears to the ground instead of keeping them locked in the Lilly conference room each year, they might hear their constituents. And BSC funding is merely one example of this problem.

The SGA Senate must bear some of this responsibility as well. Usually, senators assume the ATC has done its job, and rubber stamp its recommendations. Don’t rock the boat, don’t make extra work just when papers are coming due and the year’s about to end. When they do this, however, they neglect what the students elected them to do. If the ATC runs away from an issue, the Senate should take up that issue, and force the ATC to wrestle with it.

Presumption of control. Another problem with the ATC is that it often makes line-item cuts in organizations’ budgets that in effect remove policy-making authority from organization leaders. ATC Chairperson Ester Kim defended a $1000 cut in The Davidsonian’s production budget last year by saying the ATC understood that the newspaper wanted to run more pages each week, and the ATC thought more pages were unnecessary. Clearly, the number of pages in The Davidsonian was not the ATC’s decision to make, and cutting funds for that reason alone was an abuse of ATC authority. If cuts are necessary, the ATC must not presume to play the head of an organization. If the cut is fair, and based on an across-the-board picture of student need and interest, the ATC will not need to tell an organization how to absorb the loss.

Sacred Cows. The ATC also tends to protect sacred cows, activities and organizations that have little to do with Davidson students and which survive because ATC members wish to preserve them, for one reason or another. The Davidson Miscellany is a prime example of a sacred cow. The Miscellany, a mediocre literary magazine which pretends to professional status, is the only College publication other schools keep in their libraries. Consequently, it receives funds year after year. Not too many students, however, participate in its production, write for it, or even know what it is. It is the only publication with a faculty adviser, now German Professor J. S. Winkler. Past editors have said they were merely figureheads for the advisers, who in effect produced the magazine. This year’s editor, sophomoreJohn David Ramsey has said he will try to encourage student involvement and has set up a group of student readers. But the staff has not produced an issue this year, except for one edited by Winkler and dated last spring. Furthermore, no posters announcing solicitation of students’ work have appeared on campus. Apparently, an issue of the magazine is now at the printers, but the amount of student involvement remains to be seen. If The Miscellany’s student spokesman cannot prove to the ATC that students run the magazine, then it should be eliminated, thus releasing $3200 in student funds. If students do not 1) determine the final content, 2) design the look and feel, and 3) hold the ultimate responsibility for the publication, then it should be discontinued. An adviser should be just that, an adviser. Otherwise, the College should foot the bill if it wishes to continue the magazine. (In fact, substantial grants for publications of this type are available and easy to get, but advisers apparently have not taken that route because student funds have never been questioned.)

SGA Weekend is another sacred cow. It serves to provide two things: a forum from which the admissions office can sell the ostensibly most promising applicants on the College, and a soapbox from which the student running the weekend can take a shot at the SGA presidency. As such, it takes up a large chunk of the SGA budget. Being heavily SGA Senate weighted, the ATC usually does little more to Weekend funds than chisel down the amount requested. Both the SGA and the ATC need to consider that this program might be better paid for by the admissions office. While students certainly have an interest in next year’s freshman class, SGA Weekend is not a student activity.

Hidden Agendas. Another crippling problem for the ATC is the hidden agenda. As any political science major will tell you, a hidden agenda is operating in a circumstance in which a person advocates something for a stated reason but actually holds unspoken motives for doing so. For instance, this article is an attempt to give this year's ATC some constructive criticism, but its hidden agenda is to allow the writer to vent immense frustration with last year’s proceedings. In the ATC, hidden agendas operate in a number of ways. As suggested before, the Council is SGA-weighted. Often, students who have blatant conflicts of interest are appointed to serve on the council. Finally, one or more students or administrators on the board may feel a certain way about a certain organization and attempt to impose that view on the budget, regardless of the board’s representative function. Obviously, hidden agendas are counterproductive. The sole motivation for any question to any organization, and any actions taken regarding an organization, must be the benefit of the students whose money the ATC is allocating.

Criteria. The fate of Hobart Park last year shows another ATC shortcoming. The same broad criteria were not used to evaluate each organization. The only forum for student literary expression on campus had its budget cut in half. The ATC explained that since the magazine had missed an issue in the fall, and since submissions were apparently few (80 or so), the magazine was unpopular and deserved a budget cut until it could prove student interest. Interestingly, the ATC did not apply the same logic to other organizations. The Miscellany, too, had missed an issue in the fall. It had no, or next to no, student submissions, and the student editor did not even appear before the ATC. And if student interest were a guiding factor, the ATC should have cut the SGA budget to shreds. Lacking here were consistent criteria. The ATC had a goal, to allocate funds fairly, and an objective, to come close to balancing its budget. But it did not have a vision of what its role was, an agreement on what constituted a student organization and how to determine if an organization deserved funds. It was stiflingly conservative in that it did not challenge the status quo and ask what was better for its constituency. A vision is what this year’s ATC needs most. With a genuine awareness of student sentiment, a thoughtful understanding of what organizations are most valuable to students, and the resolve to ask tough questions, the ATC can make a fair and wise allocation of funds. Without that awareness, understanding, and resolve, Davidson's organizations — and students — will be disgraced by another year of petty bureaucracy.

Holt is a senior political science major from Asheboro, N.C., and an editor emeritus of The Davidsonian.

Opinions Policy
The Davidsonian “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions articles on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community. We adhere to these guidelines:
1) We require that all articles be in our hands at 7 p.m. Monday.
2) We accept typed articles and those written legibly, double-spaced.
3) We require that opinions be signed. We will print unsigned articles only if compelling reason exists for withholding the author’s name, and the author is known to either the editor or executive editor.
4) We will not edit opinions for style or content but we reserve the right to edit for rules of common English. We will inform the author of substantial changes.
5) Since space for Opinions articles is limited, we reserve the right to select articles from those we receive for publication. We will attempt to print any article we withhold from publication the next week.