Friday, May 10, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN 9

A Senior’s Farewell To Davidson
Hartley Hall

Ah, how I look forward to Fridays! It is with childlike expectation that I greet each new edition of The
Davidsonian, and with fixed absorption I sit and ponder there the dark shadow of Mankind’s soul editorialized upon its pages.
And so with pressure building for weeks and with a strong desire to see my name in print just one
more time, I was shaken not from my apathy nor my complacency but from my contentment to write a few
words of response.

Steve McMillan’s article was a real gut-wrencher wasn’t it? Steve flatters himself that the hackneyed logic and sufferous platitudes of
his time-worn arguments might even “tear apart Davidson.” Who is arrogant, Steve? Your critical, high tone so removed from the
necessities of practical application is a regrettable departure from your nature and reminds me of your close friends the negativist,
jabber-mouthed Democrats in Congress, so intuitive to identify problems, so impotent to suggest solutions. (I love you Steve, but get
out of here!)

Tim Brown does a little more admirable job, but after careful consideration I must disagree with him. A line-item veto
would, in effect, make the President a legislator—no subtle shift in the balance of power. Tim might be happy to
see some particular president have such power, perhaps even the present one. But, particularly in the area of foreign policy,
the thought scares the hell out of me. The line-item veto is designed to reduce the expense of political “Pork-Barreling,”
but still this is saving money only at the bare margin. Two-thirds of the federal budget goes to Defense and
Social Security. Ultimately, a line-item veto can only go so far. I think that I would just as soon see
politicians keep themselves busy fighting over relatively petty money allocations than have the leisure to dream up grandiose programs for
my own good. Sure it's expensive, but if the government that governs least governs best, then we still have the
best government money can buy. Good try Tim.

Ah, and The Davidsonian itself! Of the many truths that I have garnered these past four years about human nature
this one stands out in my mind: that man is a relative and adaptive animal and remains appropriately indignant despite
his condition or situation. The Davidsonian proves this weekly. And now I am made to feel apologetic for my lack
of indignation (and ‘apathy’)! Give me a break guys. Since Project '87 was sent to the Board of Trustees and
the R.A.P.E. Committee established some basic security measures, no real campus issues have emerged, despite The Davidsonian’s undaunted efforts to
drum some up. The lack of attendance at the SGA forum should be recognized for what it is—a triumph of
past SGA policy and a responsive (though not instant) administration. Just because some of us have trouble getting heated over
the lottery system doesn’t mean that the campus is apathetic. I have never seen a campus that can so quickly
and completely mobilize.

David Williams

While I am a very serious proponent of minority rights and I believe strongly in movements which foster equality of
opportunity and racial harmony, I strongly resent that the Civil War reenactment had to be dropped from the Davidson Town
Day Celebration. The banning of the reenactment symbolizes a movement to repress the freedom of expression which all Americans so
greatly cherish.

On Friday, May 3, The Charlotte Observer stated that several Davidson students had complained that “the reenactment would glorify war
on a day meant to celebrate life,” while “others objected to what they saw as the racist overtones of latter-day
Johnny Rebs appearing in town on a day that is meant to bring people together.” These objecting students have neglected
the purpose of reenacting Civil War battles. In reenacting a battle, the contingent of the Southern Civil War Society is
merely educating people about an important episode in American history. Though the Civil War is not something that any of
us can be proud of, we should not thereby forget that it existed. In ignoring history, men have a tendency
to repeat it. As Walter King of the SCWS has stated: “We just present history as it was. We don’t
say that the South was right and the North was wrong. We’re not racist, and we're not warmongers.”

The Civil War brought about the freedom of slaves and was the force that began the movement for equal opportunity
and racial harmony. How can the Black Student Coalition resent the reenactment of a war whose end brought about freedom
of black Americans? I question the racist overtones which the students perceived in the members of the Southern Civil War
Society. In the first place, the Civil War was fought over other issues besides slavery, such as States’ rights. In
addition, the Civil War brought about...the freedom of slaves and was the force that began the movement for equal opportunity
and racial harmony. How can the Black Student Coalition resent the reenactment of a war whose end brought about freedom
for black Americans? Furthermore, the objecting students were inconsistent in their actions. If they banned one educational display, then they
should have banned all the educational displays, including the nuclear freeze proponents, the hunger walkers, and the abortion opponents. Finally,
the denial of the Southern Civil War Society to allow the Civil War demonstration is simply a movement against one
of the most cherished values of American citizens—the freedom of expression. Freedom of expression is what makes the United States
so different from many other nations of the world. Davidson Town Day is supposed to be a celebration of life
and community, but the objecting students have denied that celebration to the Southern Civil War Society by denying them their
freedom of expression.

Williams is a sophomore political science major from Memphis, TN.

A Plea For The Community Center

Last week, all residents of the Town of Davidson received a letter from our recently elected congressman, Alex McMillan. Many
of us discarded the mailing, expecting another constituent survey. It was, however, a letter that may affect us all in
the near future. The letter was one of praise, for in the face of a growing federal deficit, Mayor Knox
and our Town Council passed a resolution that calls for the elimination of Federal Revenue Sharing. What many do not
realize is that this money directly supports the services at our Community Center. More importantly, this resolution was passed without
the knowledge of the town, and on the heels of a meeting where the Community Development Club expressed their concern
for the Community Center to the Mayor. At this meeting, Mayor Knox pointed out that currently the Community Center is
financed through revenue sharing funds, and that if these funds were cut off, it would not be clear how they
would be replaced. Barely two weeks later, Mayor Knox signed a resolution that was sent both to our Congressman and
President Reagan stating, “That the Mayor and Board of Commissioners of the Town of Davidson, North Carolina, go on record
as opposed to further revenue sharing with local governments . . . .”

We have not lost the Community Center yet, and we would hope that the Town Council will be the first
to state their support for it. Accordingly, we encourage all who share a concern for the future of the Community
Center to document their support by signing the following petition. The petition will be available in the lobby of Chambers
Friday, Monday, and Tuesday mornings and will also be circulated to offices in Chambers and eating houses. Thank you for
your support of this important concern.

Beth Maczka
Missy Kuykendall
Anne Lambert
Charlie Summers
Harriette Root
Ruth Pittard
Chris Gunn
Charles Ratliff
William Brown

Whereas in recent days there has been communication from Congressman Alex McMillan notifying the citizens of Davidson of the recent
resolution by the Town Council to terminate revenue sharing, and whereas Revenue Sharing has provided the financial base for the
Community Center, we the undersigned faculty, staff, and students of Davidson College affirm the value of the Davidson Community Center
and particularly the services that this facility provides, including the hot lunch program for senior citizens, tutoring and recreational facilities
for children, the agriculture extension agency, and meeting facilities for town groups. Furthermore, we urge the Town Council to take
an active role in assuring the successful continuation of this facility in the future.

C.E. Ratliff
