Friday, October 25, 1985  
THE DAVIDSONIAN  

Foundation donates $300,000 to attract new faculty  
By ANDY BALL  

The Charles A. Dana Foundation has given Davidson College a grant of $300,000 to support the college’s efforts to attract outstanding new faculty. The grant, effective over a seven-year period, will enable the college to enhance the quality of curriculum and create retirement programs.

The Dana grant is Davidson’s newest step toward lowering the student-professor ratio from 13:1 to 12:1, according to vice president of academic affairs and dean of faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann. He added that it provides for the appointment and base salaries of four new professors and will work in conjunction with the Mellon Grant, another similar donation, to reach the desired ratio.

The college has also committed an equal amount of money toward an early retirement program for senior faculty members and an additional $575,000 toward salary enhancement, Zimmermann said. The need for a strong early retirement program arises from a 1976 Age Discrimination in Employment Act passed by Congress which raises the age of retirement for employees from 65 to 70. If all professors chose to retire at 70, the number of opportunities for young professors to gain employment would decrease, Zimmermann said.

Assistant professor of biology Pamela Camp is the first of the four faculty members appointed under the grant. Zimmermann said the remaining three will be hired within the seven-year grant period as need dictates. He noted that both the English and History departments are currently reviewing possible candidates for the grant in order to ease the class loads in English Composition and to enhance the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies.

Zimmermann is optimistic about the effect he anticipates the Dana grant will have upon the Davidson faculty. He said he looks forward to “... the enlargement of the faculty with the new talents and energies of younger scholars.”

The Charles A. Dana Foundation has financially assisted Davidson several times before. Included among its various contributions are the funding for the Dana Science Building in 1960 and the partial sponsorship of four faculty members in 1966.

Symposium examines AT&T breakup  
By BILL BUGG and JIMMY LEWIS  

The breakup of AT&T has caused widespread public misunderstanding. Local phone rates have increased in many places, but lower long-distance rates can now be found in the ranks of AT&T's rising competitors. Controversial public policy has been an important factor in the divestiture process, but to what end is not yet fully known.

Why was AT&T dismantled? In what ways has its divestiture affected its ability to serve the public? What roles have public policy and technology played in the scheme of AT&T’s breakup? How can we address the aftermath of the complex and controversial court decisions leading to divestiture?

A New Liberal Arts Symposium examined these and related issues Monday and Tuesday in a series of presentations entitled “Telephones and Technology: the Breakup of AT&T.” The symposium, sponsored by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, IBM Corporation, and Davidson College, featured lectures by Gerald Brock, economist of the Federal Communications Commission, Alfred Partoll, executive vice president for external affairs of AT&T Communications, and Davidson associate professor of political science Mary Thornberry, and Jim Vander Weide, a consultant for Southern Bell on the faculty of the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University.

Judicial Decisions  
In a lecture entitled “The Problem of Regulatory Boundaries: Telephones, Computers, and Communication,” Gerald Brock argued that a series of court decisions were responsible for AT&T's breakup. Originally AT&T thought of itself as one entity, a natural monopoly, and consequently the corporation claimed that any hardware connected to its equipment was its sole right to own, manufacture, and distribute. In Brock’s words, AT&T essentially claimed, “Anything attached to our property is under our services.” A critical case with far-reaching ramifications, according...to Brock, involved a small company, Hush-a-Phone, which developed a simple attachment piece for the telephone receiver to cut down extraneous noise. AT&T claimed that Hush-a-Phone could not market such a piece because in doing so the company would touch AT&T's boundaries. Hush-a-Phone took the case to the Court of Appeals and won—the first of a number of defeats for AT&T. This raised questions about boundaries: into how many areas can AT&T expand? How much does AT&T need to be regulated? In 1980, the Federal Communications Commission ruled that the corporation would be split into two pieces: a competitive, unregulated section, and a regulated monopoly; divestiture soon followed.

Technology
Alfred Partoll espoused the idea that divestiture resulted from the impact technology had on the telecommunications market. In his lecture, “AT&T Divestiture: The Impact of Technology on Public Policy,” describing advances in microelectronics, photonics, and data processing, Partoll reasoned that increases in technology laid the foundation for the entry of competition into the telecommunications field. Partoll said many argue that rapid technological advances necessitate competition, and hence claim that the cheapest and most efficient structure for telecommunications is unregulated competition rather than a natural monopoly. Eventually, the government’s public policy folded to the pressure, and divestiture took place, leading Partoll to conclude, “Technology was at the heart of divestiture.”

Divestiture: A Public Policy Blunder of the Judiciary
The controversy of divestiture was ultimately settled by the judicial branch of the government, Mary Thornberry said in her lecture, “The Breakup as Public Policy: Purple Prose and the Purple Curtain.” Thornberry discussed whether the judicial branch should have the power to formulate such controversial public policy. With the present system of regulation “obviously outmoded,” the legislative branch was not able to pass a communications reform bill. Thornberry stated that the executive branch was not able to forge a position and had “no clear policy in mind.” Therefore, it was left to the judiciary, whose power and wisdom Thornberry questioned, to arrive at a solution.

Aftermath
Divestiture was implemented to benefit the public as a whole, yet local telephone prices are steadily increasing. Why? In a lecture entitled “Licensing the Locals: State and Local Aspects of the Aftermath,” Jim Vander Weide compared the advantages and disadvantages of AT&T as a natural monopoly with those of the new system. Vander Weide claimed that the old system in which AT&T functioned as a natural monopoly did contain certain advantages. One such advantage was that the company did not have to base local price systems on actual costs. Under the new system of evolving competition, regulators have adopted the necessary policy of allowing local prices to equal the actual cost, not the subsidized cost. This has increased local telephone rates for many people, Vander Weide claimed, although he acknowledged that some local service customers will lose money.

UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA MBA PROGRAM
An Admissions Representative from the University of Georgia Graduate School of Business Administration will be on campus to meet with students interested in the MBA Program. Contact the Career Planning and Placement Center for more details and to sign up for an information session.

BUFFET
Sunday 12 Noon - 9:30 P.M.
SPAGHETTI
100% durum wheat
OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE
FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD
PARMESAN—ROMANO CHEESE
ITALIAN SAUSAGE
CHOICE BEEF
SALAD BAR
FRESHLY DICED GREEN PEPPERS
FRESH GREEN VEGETABLES
SWEET ONIONS
FLAVORFUL MEATS
SOUP OF THE DAY
RICH DRESSINGS
CREAM OF POTATO
TASTY CHEESES
VEGETABLE BEEF STOCK
WINE
CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE
CHICKEN NOODLE
DESSERT-TEMPTING
HAWAIIAN SALAD
CREAM OF MUSHROOM
CHILI CON CARNE
CLAM CHOWDER
ALL FOR ONE PRICE
ALL RATES PER PERSON
FOR CHILDREN UNDER 12—25¢ PER YEAR
BUFFET—ALL YOU CAN EAT—
Mooresville’s First And Finest Italian Restaurant
KING Of PIZZA
241 SOUTH BROAD STREET—MOORESVILLE—663-3030
BUFFET
Lunch Buffet—Mon.-Sat., 11 AM-2:30 PM $3.39
Meal Includes:
SPECIAL RATES
PIZZA
Mooresville's Finest
SPICY PEPPERONI
CANADIAN BACON