The Davidsonian  
Friday, April 26, 1985  
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036  
Volume LXXIV, Number 20  

**ATC Cuts Proposed Budgets, Lacks Funds**  
By TED WILSON  

The Activities Tax Council yesterday proposed next year’s budget for student-run organizations. However, no final budgetary decisions will be made until Tuesday. 

“Just because we did better than last year doesn’t mean we did well,” said Peggy Pierotti, next year’s editor of Quips and Cranks. Pierotti said the ATC proposed to give the yearbook $26,000, which is $1,600 shy of her recommendation. She said, “we need about $1,000 more to produce a book of Davidson quality as far as I can tell now,” but she added, “I haven't decided what I’m going to do” about obtaining the rest of the money. 

Pierotti said that, though the ATC’s proposed allotment isn’t enough, “I realize that they don’t have enough money” to accommodate all the other organizations’ requests since the Student Activity Fee has not been raised. Pierotti said she plans “to have paid positions on the yearbook staff,” in contrast to this year. The total staff salaries account for less than $1,000 annually and are less than the salaries paid to the Davidsonian editors and the SGA Chancellor, she said. 

“The reason they cut them [paid positions] out last year was because they [the editors] made a $2,000 addition mistake and they got less than they asked for and needed,” she said, adding salaries were henceforth cut from the budget. Pierotti said while next year’s book will be reduced in size and will have an inexpensive cover, the staff will not reduce the number of color photos. 

John Gathings, editor of The Davidsonian, said the ATC proposed to give the newspaper $13,500, which is $1,300 short of his recommendation. He said the proposed budget is “operable but we won’t get a new addition to our typesetting equipment which we could really use.” He added, “I was afraid of getting less than we did, so generally, I’m satisfied.” 

Martha Wilson, co-editor of next year’s Hobart Park, said, “I’m pretty happy” about the ATC’s proposal to allot $2,845 to the publication. Wilson recommended $2,900, adding: “it was a really tight budget. We were careful to keep it as low as possible.” She said the main reason the ATC came so close to meeting Hobart Park’s proposal is the increase in student support for the publication. “There have been more submissions and more copies picked up,” she said. Wilson said money will be saved by “holding down Xerox costs.” The editors will make fewer copies of the submitted material for their staff members to read and evaluate. She said they can also save by selectively choosing the most competitive production price. Though the production fell $55 short of its goal, Wilson said, “we're not going to contest it.” She said, “I don’t want to take $55 from another organization when we could absorb the cost.” 

Dana Lemon, co-editor of The Wildcat Handbook, also said she would not contest the ATC’s budget proposal. She said the publication plans to get $1,000 of the $1,050 the editors asked for. “We are pleased and we will be able to run it with the [proposed] budget,” she said. “We expected to get the whole amount but $50 isn’t that much,” she added. Lemon said the staff hopes to obtain the rest of the needed money from advertisement sales. She emphasized there will be “no cutbacks” from last year’s budget. 

Lemon also said she was “pleased about the Black Student Coalition’s proposed allotment.” The organization plans to receive $3,900 from the ATC. Though the BSC requested $5,000, “we will not be funding the Martin Luther King Lecture Series next year which is where the majority of our funds were distributed,” she said. The President's office will pay for the events next year. Lemon said the BSC “will have no problems operating on the $3,900 from the ATC.” 

Other student leaders could not be reached or had not yet been informed of the ATC’s budget proposal, which the SGA will vote on at Tuesday's meeting. 

The Davidson College Peace Coalition held a Die-In on Monday to protest aggression in Central America. The statement, which lasted only a short while, occurredon Chamber's lawn, TUF Tries To Retain Yearly Continuity

By DAVID VAN PELT

A year after the dissolution of the Davidson Christian Fellowship, its successor The Unknown Fellowship (TUF) is struggling to establish its identity and reach out to the campus community, according to program coordinators.

According to sophomore John David Ramsey, one of six new coordinators recently chosen for next year, The Unknown Fellowship has had to battle the stigma of cliquishness, close-mindedness, and alienation from campus life which plagued DCF last year. “The reputation we had wasn’t purely fictitious,” Ramsey said.

According to junior coordinator Ted Wolfe, “in the past The Fellowship has closed off a lot of Christians.” The group, he said, “had a certain way of doing things” which alienated many students. He said it was easy for Fellowship members to associate among themselves and appear cliquish without knowing it. “The Fellowship is only as good as the people individually,” he added.

The primary focus of Fellowship activity this year, according to coordinators, has been to define its purpose and establish itself as a viable campus organization. One of DCF’s biggest problems had been a lack of continuity from year to year. According to senior Hank Van Deventer, each year organizers have had to redefine the scope and philosophy of the Fellowship. TUF has undertaken several measures to combat the inconsistency of DCF.

Van Deventer said TUF last week finalized its affiliation with Inter-Varsity, a national organization of Christian fellowships. The organization will advise TUF on campus activities, sponsor conferences and mission training programs, and provide a staff worker to operate on campus. The affiliation with a national organization will “hold consistency year in and year out,” Van Deventer said. All students somehow involved in the Fellowship were asked to vote on the affiliation, he said, which passed overwhelmingly.

Another important aspect of TUF’s reorganization involves the formulation of a Statement of Purpose, which Van Deventer said expresses TUF's desire for “concrete goals.” The Statement of Purpose, he said, originated from a retreat in January which dealt with what the purpose of TUF should be. According to the Statement, “our purpose, through both our words and actions, is to share and encourage growth in Jesus Christ as the Bible reveals Him and as we experience Him in our lives.”

Three subheadings are included in the Statement of Purpose. TUF wishes to encourage missions through relevant academic courses, small groups devoted to the subject, and seminars. Evangelism is another central focus of TUF, according to the Statement, which it hopes to develop by emphasizing communication skills, workshops, and Bible studies. Discipleship and growth is the third TUF goal. TUF encourages “personal and systematic prayer,” knowledge of the Bible, and involvement with missions and evangelism to achieve this end.

The TUF coordinators for this year have also conducted a training program for next year’s coordinators to ease the transition to next year's leadership. This Sunday will mark the final training session before the coordinators for next year take over, according to Van Deventer.

Junior Stewert Cooper cited a lack of communication between large and small groups as harming the effectiveness of the Fellowship in the past. “We really want to build a sense of common unity,” he said. According to coordinators, now that the Fellowship has more clearly defined its role, it can stress involvement with the campus and community. It sponsored several activities this year including a winterizing project. Ramsey said, “the outreach of the Fellowship has not been that strong this year.” The Fellowship hopes by sponsoring activities such as a Bugs Bunny-Charlie Chaplin film festival Saturday night, a square dance on May 2, and a picnic at the Lake Campus on May 10, it can appeal to a broad base of students.

According to Ramsey, TUF can accomplish none of its goals without an open-minded attitude on the part of the students. “The campus is going to have to meet us halfway,” he said. “I think it's important for the campus as a whole to realize that we're trying to change what was wrong with the Fellowship in the past.”