1
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Brooke Knight, Executive Editor
Kevin Horan, Associate Editor
Kim Crabtree, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Bill Bugg, Features Editor; Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor; Ann Roddey, Production Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager; David Maynard, Circulation Manager

John Gathings, Editor

Deaf and Dumb

We really appreciate the effort that Security, the Housing Office, and the Dean of Students Office is making to make
Davidson safe from the evils of the outside world, but somehow this try falls short.

There have been many documented thefts which have caused students to become somewhat more aware of the reality that exists
beyond the insular school.

The newly-installed lock system on the three outer dorms may seem like an easy solution to the problem, but we
have our reservations about it. The following faults have become evident:

First, the four-digit combinations to these locks are readily gotten. The combinations are posted in the dorms as well as
being spread by word of mouth. We can conclude the following: anyone who wants the combination can get it.

Second, it may lull some students into a false sense of security, and they may then become more careless about
locking their doors. Also, in the case of a so-called “incident” a person who is not over-confident in the pieces
of metal and electronics will be better prepared and able to defend themselves.

Third, it is starting to sound as if this is summer camp, where the students are watched over and not
responsible for themselves. One of Davidson’s traditions is that the students are trusted and respected (i.e., treated like adults), not
guarded by a mother hen.

Fourth, repeatedly being “protected” by the college will evoke a fear of the outside world in the students. They will
support Davidson, The Protectionist Society, in which the words “we” and “they” will become mainstays of their referential vocabulary.

Fifth, the locks are a bother, albeit a minor one. Students will almost immediately prop the doors open or find
some way to prevent the locks from engaging, rendering them impotent (and especially dangerous considering that the students believe in
their effectiveness).

We are not saying that students should continue to be blind to the occurrences of the “outside” world, but that
the college should encourage the students to think and act on their own. The impetus for increased security should not
be imposed by the college, but should come from the students themselves. If the students are “mature,” they will realize
that they need to be responsible for both their actions and their possessions. After all, locks are provided on individual
doors within the dorms.

Programs such as the security awareness articles in this publication are an effective way to educate the students; deaf and
dumb locks are not.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 692-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of
the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $13 per year, or $24 per year for first class postal rates.
Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Andy Ball, Laura Batten, David Bearce, Jim Dillon, Keith Finch, Andrea Gross, Heidi Hooker, Jeff Lesesne,
Aaron Levine, Thomas Nicholson, David Williams

Features Staff: Laura Ballenger, Martha Johnson, Jenny Livingston, Matt Morris, Doug Robelen, Chris Sullivan

Sports Staff: Edwin Page, assistant sports editor; Mike Adams, Rand Hartsell
Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Beth Drummond, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, David Petranick, John Reuter, Sarah Smith

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Kim Nikles

Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Kristin Galloway, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen Keeley, Kara Kooken, Kris Kost, Beth Parker, Kim Robertson,
Margaret White, David Williams, Ben Yarborough
Compositors: Doug Kim, Lynda Korfmann, Ann Roddey, David Soud, Sara Strachan, Laure Van Dierdonck

The Davidsonian “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions
articles on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community.

We adhere to these guidelines:

1) We require that all articles be in our hands at 7 p.m. Monday.

2) We accept typed articles and those written legibly, double-spaced.

3) We require that opinions be signed. We will print unsigned articles only if a compelling reason exists for withholding
the author’s name, and the author is known to either the editor or executive editor.

4) We will not edit opinions for style or content but we reserve the right to edit for rules of
common English. We will inform the author of substantial changes.

5) Since space for Opinions articles is limited, we reserve the right to select articles from those we receive for
publication. We will attempt to print any article we withhold from publication the next week.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere to
these four guidelines:

1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.

2) We require that letters be neatly typed.

3) We require that letters be signed and include the author's phone number and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.

4) We reserve the right not to print letters that a) function as advertisements; b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or
inside jokes; c) represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed on the same topic.
