Friday, April 19, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Shannon Speaks On Merton In Staley Lecture Program
By LEE WHITE

“The work of Thomas Merton,” Father William Shannon said Monday night, “has helped me realize God not as someone out
there, but as, in Merton’s words, ‘the hidden ground of love.’”

Shannon, this year’s lecturer in the Staley Distinguished Christian Scholar Lecture Program, presented a series of lectures and events this
week. The subject of these events was “Thomas Merton: A Contemporary Spirituality.”

Thomas Merton (1915-1968) was a Trappist monk. He became famous as a writer with the publication of a bestselling autobiography,
The Seven Storey Mountain, in 1948. Merton was the author of 40 books and 1,000 poems. Shannon is the author
of Thomas Merton's Dark Path: The Inner Experience of a Contemplative (1981). In 1982, he was appointed general editor of
the letters of Thomas Merton. Editing Merton's letters was a three-year task involving tracking down letters written to people living
all over the world. Shannon said the original manuscript of the letters had to be edited because it was “1,276
double-spaced, typed pages.” The finished volume, published this year, is entitled The Hidden Ground of Love.

Shannon was a professor at Nazareth College when his interest in Merton studies was sparked by two students who urged
him to teach a seminar in Merton. Shannon remarked that “the real learners in the educational process are teachers.”

In his speech Monday night, “Prayer and Action in the World,” Shannon described how as he taught students about Merton
he came to see how pertinent his work was. Shannon said he understood Merton’s theological approach to be the methodology
of the “question.” Thomas Merton once wrote: “I do not have clear answers... I do have questions.” Shannon said he
saw the central task of theology as wrestling with difficult questions. In his search for answers to questions about God
and about life, Merton learned from the religious experiences of East and West, he added.

In his speech, Shannon emphasized Merton’s concern with contemplation. In contemplation, Merton sought union with God. In this union, he
met all men and women in God as persons. For Merton, contemplation was the basis for social concern. Shannon quoted
Merton’s words: “I disappear to be everywhere with hiddenness and compassion.” Merton believed that through contemplation one came to awareness.
For Merton, the experience of contemplation was more than a change in behavior. It was a change in consciousness. The
awareness gained from this change in consciousness restored one to a true vision of God. This true vision, Merton believed,
was lost in the Fall.

Shannon said a contemplative lifestyle is a difficult thing to teach. However, he said, an attitude for contemplation could be
encouraged. He remarked that to truly become a contemplative is to become “counter-cultural.”

Shannon spoke Tuesday night on “Merton and Modern Social Issues.” He also conducted a retreat at DCPC Wednesday afternoon.

‘Black Concerns’ Symposium Reaches Other Institutions
By ANDREA DIEDRICH

Davidson College and NCNB sponsored the “Black Concerns in Higher Education” symposium held last Thursday. The symposium was organized to
build the momentum created by the report of the Task Force on Racial and Ethnic Concerns, according to Assistant Dean
of Admissions and Assistant Dean of Students Paula Miller. She and economics professor Clark Ross were the primary organizers of
the symposium. Four prominent black educators spoke at the symposium. Miller said that she was very,

Senior Class
By TED WILSON

Seniors still have time to pledge money for the class gift. The original fund drive from March 22-April 4 has
been extended indefinitely. The senior class raised between $41,000 and $42,000 during the first two weeks of the drive, falling
short of the $65,000 goal, according to Martha Nelson, co-chairperson of the Executive Class Gift Committee. Co-chairperson Shep Robinson said
the drive was “set for two weeks with hopes that people would get [the cards] in” but the Committee anticipated
theyPleased with the outcome of the symposium, the symposium was intended to reach out to other colleges and universities as
well as the Davidson College community. According to Miller, approximately 40 administrators attended the symposium from other institutions, including The
Citadel, The College of Charleston, and the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. Miller feels that one of the factors
that made the symposium such a success was the support and commitment College President John Kuykendall has given to solving
the problem of race relations at Davidson.

Johnson C. Smith University President Dr. Robert Albright spoke on the future of historically black colleges over the next 25
years. Albright believes that several problems are hurting the current status of historically black colleges. One problem is that of
receiving re-accreditation. Another problem Albright has termed the “brain drain phenomenon.” This term describes the difficulty the historically black colleges
are having in competing for the most intelligent black students and faculty members with about 3,000 other institutions. The historically
black colleges are also having difficulty battling for support and resources. Albright also feels all institutions will suffer from a
declining federal commitment to higher education.

Referring to the future, Albright said, “I think black colleges over the next 25 years will perhaps be more critical
in terms of the role they will play to this nation than they have been in the last 25 or
50 years.” He attributes this projection to two factors. First, because public schools plan to raise their academic standards, many
black students will only be given an opportunity to gain a higher education through the historically black colleges which are
more willing to take a chance on students according to Albright. Second, many black students come from suspect educational environments
and need special programs when they get to college which most colleges and universities do not provide.

Albright believes some historically black colleges will merge with institutions close to them and others will become two-year institutions. He
believes some will go out of business while others will be strengthened as states grow and maintain a commitment to
integration. Dr. Marcus Alexis, professor and chairman of the Economics Department at Northwestern University, addressed the issue of recruitment and
retention of black students on predominantly white campuses. Dr. C. Eric Lincoln, professor of religion and culture at Duke University,
spoke on the affirmative action issue. Dr. Bertha Maxwell, Frank Porter Graham Professor and chairman of Afro-American and African studies
at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, spoke about the significance of Afro-American studies as a viable academic discipline.

Gift Winds would not all be turned in by April 4. He said eighty senior “brokers” are “in charge of
contacting three or four other seniors to get pledges” for the project. Nelson said about 100 seniors have not been
contacted. While the committee urges seniors to return the cards as soon as possible, there is no absolute deadline. Robin
said Mike Wilkinson and Tony Holt plan to check the computer list for the brokers who have not turned in
the cards and will put pressure on them to do so. The brokers were chosen from a variety of sources,
including a printout of all seniors categorized according to their eating facilities. He said there was “good representation from fraternities,
eating houses and those eating independent.” Robinson said the fund drive “has been running real well. We've had a training
session and a banquet for the brokers” and have met with President John Kuykendall. He attributes the delay in the
project's completion to seniors being hard to reach. This year’s class gift is to provide $65,000 over a period of
five years to finance a minority scholarship each year worth approximately $3,700.

Come to the 900 Room FRIDAY, April 26th... Speidel, Goodrich, Goggin, and Well. "Well, I don't know... but I think
we need SGG almost as much as the MX Peacekeeper! Nancy likes ‘em a lot too!"
