Friday, January 25, 1985 / The Davidsonian

Professors And Trustee Respond To Apartheid
By TED WILSON

Through petitions and campus forums, four professors and one Trustee have sought to inspire reaction against apartheid in South Africa and America’s policy toward the South African government. Thelma Adair, a Davidson Trustee and a member of the United Presbyterian Church USA, related her feelings about South Africa at the Open Luncheon Wednesday. Last night, political science Professor Harris Proctor, economics Professor Clark Ross, Ambassador Lafayette Diggs, and French Professor Lauren Yoder addressed the history, economics, politics, and moral issues of apartheid.

Proctor explained the rigid class system in South Africa, by which “everyone is classified by race.” Seventeen percent of the population is white; coloreds (mixed-blooded people) comprise nine and one-half percent; Africans make up 70 percent, with the rest of the population consisting of Asians, who are descendants of India. Proctor said the rigid system “determines every aspect of one’s life. No black is a citizen; [they] can’t run for office or vote.” He added, “the blacks, 70 percent of the population, live in 13 percent of the land [area] of South Africa. The land is the “poorest, driest land of the country [where there is] no industry, and little urbanization.” Proctor said there are 10 Bantustans for principal tribes to live on which “in theory are to become independent.” He added, four have supposedly gained independence but “no state in the world, except for South Africa, has recognized their independence.”

“Sixty percent of the blacks live in urban areas, in segregated dormitories distant from factories.” Many blacks, living away from their homeland, seek employment from whites in the urban areas. But, to live there, a black “must have a job and carry a pass to indicate employment. If he has no job, he can’t remain there.” Hence, the blacks are only “temporarily employed,” as the loss of a job means a voyage back to the rural homeland. There is “rigid segregation when blacks and whites are together. Africans are confined to grim homelands,” and inferior economic and social positions, Proctor said. For those who challenge the system, there is a “repressive legislature” and measures are taken such as imprisonment, exile, and death.

Historically, the United States’ policy toward apartheid in South Africa has been “extremely cautious, and ambivalent,” according to Proctor. “There is a gap between rhetoric and reality. [There have been] expressions of abhorrence for apartheid” resulting in “little more than wishful thinking.” President Reagan, Proctor said, has treated the South African government softly. He supports “constructive engagement and gentle diplomacy,” according to Proctor. During Reagan’s administration, the United States has sustained a resolution condemning apartheid. Since the recent election, there has been “growing pressure from a variety of people.” Congressmen voicing their protests outside the South African embassy in Washington is one example of people “urging the President to speak out more” against the South African government, Proctor said.

Ross spoke about the economic aspect of American-South African relations. He began, “No reasonable person can come to the defense of apartheid in South Africa,” agreeing with Proctor that “this is the time for change in U.S. policy.” He added, “reasonable people can disagree on what would be the best U.S. policy change in respect to apartheid.” He said the economic policy becomes complicated “because blacks cannot be insulated from economic changes in South Africa whether the changes are for the better or worse,” because the blacks comprise 70 percent of the population. Ross said — in contrast to the United States where blacks were granted civil rights but have lagged behind whites economically — in South Africa, “civil liberties are not [granted] because that threatens the whites’ position.” Blacks, Ross said, are needed economically in South Africa. “If you deny economic rights to blacks, who do you sell to?”

“From a purely economic perspective, there are problems with disinvestment and trade embargos.” He said disinvestment will reduce the rate of economic growth, and it is difficult to determine what to do with a large corporation’s plant if it is abandoned by the American owner. Cutting off trade also has complications, Ross said. “Trade is intended to be mutually beneficial for both countries” because it allows people to “buy goods cheaper than you can produce them.” Trade restrictions would prevent the Africans from benefiting from the lowest price. Ross also said embargos could hurt neighboring countries as South Africa “is a major exporter of food” and “a conduit of trade from outside countries.” Judging from the situation, Ross said, the only way to succeed is to take positive steps “to show that all South Africans have an economic interest in moving away from apartheid.” He said some white businessmen oppose apartheid because it’s “bad for business and blacks are a big economic force.”

Ross suggested several ways America could make better use of its economic involvement in South Africa. He said the U.S. could: pass legislation requiring firms investing in South Africa to follow proper conduct and take positive steps to argue for political changes and the development of black trade unions, “the most serious threat to apartheid,” insist that Americans invest in education and hospitals, and monitor firms in South Africa to ensure they are operating fairly.

Next, Ambassador Lafayette Diggs spoke on the political aspect of apartheid. He said the African states “have all been colonized and exploited. The emotional response of South Africans is not understood by Europeans and Americans because they haven't had that experience.” Diggs said “racial discrimination is written into the constitution, which shows the inequality.”of the South African regime,” and the government has “violated principles of justice.” Diggs said the Africans “look to the U.S. because the U.S. created a democratic political system and economic system, as we abolished slavery which was a result of colonization.” The problem, he said, is very complicated and doesn’t lend itself to easy solutions. He said “the African formula is to give the impression of change without change.” He said, as an alternative to violence, the West must get involved “to raise and uplift the blacks” to better conditions.

Yoder, reading poetry and relating anecdotes about his own experiences in Africa, presented the emotional aspect of apartheid. “Apartheid degrades South Africans (and to some extent Asians and Coloreds).” The work passes require families to be separated. “A family may see the breadwinner one month out of a year.” Yoder related a talk he had with a South African named Steve. Yoder said he was a strong opponent of violence, at which time Steve told him about workers who had been flogged for not having work passes, and police dragging off the editor of a small local paper. Steve's response to the violence was “I must fight. I don’t want the 12-year-olds to live in fear forever.” Yoder said “Many Africans are no longer claiming the United States as a democratic leader,” because of their policy on apartheid and dealings with South Africa. He said changes were occurring in two areas: sports are now partially integrated, and black trade unions have been allowed since 1979, though some leaders are still being imprisoned.” Yoder said “pressures could be beared, short of disinvestment.” He suggested that movements in Congress could be made to decide upon economic sanctions, cultural exchanges between the Western world and Africa, and mandating the Sullivan principles. Yoder encouraged everyone to sign the petitions condemning apartheid circulating around campus, adding, “Perhaps American policy might change” with pressure from citizens.

Thelma Adair spoke Wednesday at the Open Luncheon on her experiences with and feelings about South Africa. “I'm not going to offer solutions to pass out to the government of South Africa, but I'm going to give my own response through Africa as a continent [about] my own feelings toward South Africa” in relation to the Presbyterian Church, USA, she said. She said Africa is “continually haunted by the phenomenon of weather and nature and is facing perhaps the loss of one fourth of its population because of droughts, lack of markets, governments that have toppled,” and technology that has cursed instead of blessed the countries. She said the rules are so strictly enforced and the conditions so bad, “death at times seemed better” for those who are not members of the white population. Adair said the blacks in South Africa suffer from “low wages, separation, and being denied opportunities for jobs and advancements.” They are denied the equality of life and there is hostility in elementary schools where people “protest the crushing of the human spirit.” Adair has worked with the United Presbyterian Church, USA, which supports the South African Reform Presbyterian Church, The Evangelical Presbyterian Church, and the Presbyterian Church of Africa. She said there is a need to “develop educational opportunities,” and to train lay people and clergy. Through community organizations, they need to bear witness to and deal with “thousands [who are] in prison, homeless, suffering from malnutrition” and who are living in a world of uncertainty. Adair said there was constant civil disobedience by those fighting for rights. “The people are not silent; they are willing to take the results of speaking out,” she said.

Athletic Dept. Looks For Head Football Coach
By DAVID VAN PELT

The Athletic Department will name a new head football coach March 1 at the earliest, according to athletic director Kit Morris. “We have an obligation to be as thorough as possible,” Morris said. “We want to proceed in a way which demonstrates our awareness of the importance of the job.” He said a target date of March 1 “may be unrealistic.” According to Morris, the Athletic Department has advertised the position nationwide in NCAA News and has received applicants “from coast to coast.” Davidson is seeking a head football coach to replace Ed Farrell, who earlier this month did not choose to renew his contract. Morris would not estimate the number of applications the College has received, but said “they come in the morning and evening mail every day.” Morris said he will stop taking applications Feb. 7 and will then begin screening applicants. He will narrow the field to approximately six or eight applicants, he said, and invite them here for personal interviews. Though Morris will make the final decision concerning the new coach, he said he plans to enlist Davidson students, faculty, and staff to observe interviews with the candidates and advise him on the decision. “I will consult with people at Davidson, with our alumni, and certainly our President,” Morris said. According to Morris, “We're looking for someone with integrity, character, an imaginative approach to football and someone with the leadership and organization skills needed to head up our program.” He added that the College seeks applicants “able to embrace with its values and philosophy.” Morris said he is also seeking a candidate able to handle a football program whose course is largely uncertain beyond the 1985 season. Though Davidson will compete in the Division I Southern Conference with three games against Southern Conference opponents and three more to be counted on their conference record, Morris said the schedule is not decided beyond next season.