Who's On First?
Friday, March 29, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Memphis - Georgetown Square Off For National Championship
By ANDY BARRON

The NCAA basketball tournament has proved at least one thing: the Big East is college basketball’s best conference. Big East
teams dominated all comers over the weekend to place Georgetown, St. John’s, and Villanova in the illustrious NCAA final four.
Never before has one conference placed three teams in this exclusive group.

For those of you who don’t believe the Big East is the best, a comparison of the top conferences is
in order. Though the SEC surprised a lot of people (including me) during tournament play, the Cinderella runs of Auburn,
Alabama, and Kentucky do not a strong conference make. The Big Ten flopped in NCAA post-season play, compiling a yawn-creating
4-6 record, and ending its claim as the nation’s top roundball conference.

In fact, the Big East has but one competitor: the ACC. At the start of tournament play, ACC fans were
riled by the NCAA’s tournament committee giving both the Big East and the Big Ten more bids than the ACC
(six as opposed to five). This complaint was well-founded in the case of the Big Ten. Not so for the
Big East. In head-to-head meetings between the two conferences, the Big East won five out of six meetings (Georgia Tech
beat Syracuse to prevent a Big East sweep). Every ACC team was eliminated by a Big East team. Not once
did a Big East team lose a game in which they were favored to win. However, Duke, Maryland, and North
Carolina were all upset; these ACC schools clamped on the choke-collar against Boston College (for Duke), and Villanova (for both
Maryland and North Carolina). After last weekend, Big East fans were reciting the following to any unfortunate ACC supporter they
saw: “What does the Big East eat for lunch?” Answer: “The ACC.”

ACC fans did have one thing to chuckle about last week: my predictions. I was wrong on all four ACC
teams. Maryland not only failed to win the Southeast region, they failed to win a game. UNC beat Auburn and
N.C. State beat Alabama to prove Alabama should stick to auto racing. Yes, even Georgia Tech won a game I
said they would lose. In fact, Georgia Tech just missed upsetting mighty Georgetown and going on to the final four.
I have a feeling the boys from Atlanta will be in the thick of things next year.

As for the rest of my predictions, I’m sure no one noticed I was perfect in the Midwest regional. In
addition, I picked three out of the final four teams. Keeping this back-patting in mind, I now give my predictions
concerning the last two rounds.

Georgetown-St. John’s is easy. Though CBS is tickled pink by having the Hoyas and Redmen meet for a fourth time,
I’m sure St. John’s coach Lou Carnesecca isn’t. Every NCAA champion has one close call before winning it all. Georgetown
got their close call out of the way against Georgia Tech. Though St. John’s did beat Georgetown earlier this year,
Patrick Ewing and company sought and got revenge with a capital “R”, twice. St. John’s looked sluggish at best against
N.C. State and was lucky to win. I think the game will be close most of the way. However, when
the game is over, Georgetown will win by ten. The biggest question in my mind is whether or not Georgetown
coach John Thompson will have another copy of Carnesecca’s lucky sweater.

Memphis State-Villanova is much more difficult for me. I think Memphis State has a lot more talent. But Memphis State
reached the final four despite their stringent efforts to the contrary. While Memphis State tried to lose every game they
played, Villanova’s “never-say-die” attitude overcame poor first halves against both Maryland and UNC. In other words, I want to pick
Villanova. What keeps me from doing so is the past. A Cinderella tear gets to the...Final Four every year, or
so it seems. Last year it was Virginia, N.C. State the year before, etc. N.C. State managed to win it
all; but that was an exception, not the rule. The last underdog from Philadelphia to make the Final Four was
Pennsylvania in 1979. Pennsylvania lost to eventual champ Michigan State 101-67! Memphis State will stumble by Villanova to gain the
dubious honor of facing Georgetown. The championship game will feature All-Americans Patrick Ewing of Georgetown and Keith Lee of Memphis
State. Unfortunately for Lee, Ewing’s supporting cast possesses far more talent, depth, and experience. Ewing won’t dominate Lee, but Georgetown
shouldn’t have too much trouble with Memphis State. Final Score: Georgetown 69, Memphis State 53.

After Week Of Heavy Play, Record Season To 10-7

Davidson's men’s tennis team broke even last week to move their record to 10-7 for the season.

“Virginia Tech was a great match for us,” said Frank. “We had lost to them in the past. Not having
Hayes and Ric hurt, but it made the team work harder. We really got some great performances from Trip Caldwell
(sophomore) and Michael Meyer (sophomore).”

Davidson scored big wins over High Point and Virginia Tech early in the week. The end of the week saw
Davidson get nipped by N.C. State and beaten by Wake Forest.

Davidson’s week got off to a great start against High Point. The Wildcats won 9-1, a score that obscured the
talent on High Point’s strong squad. “I think the clay hurt them [High Point],” said Coach Jeff Frank. “They had
some talented kids; we just played very well that day.”

Davidson’s busy schedule had the Cats playing Virginia Tech the next day. A different team, but the results were the
same as the day before. Davidson beat Virginia Tech 9-0; so convincing was the win that only one match went
more than one set. Davidson won despite the absence of sophomore Hayes Dallas and freshman Ric Hodge, both important players.

“We really thought we could play with N.C. State,” said Frank. “They were a very experienced team and it showed.
I thought we might have been able to win two of the singles matches we lost. Still, our doubles play
was great and I was pleased with our performance.”

The next two matches involved ACC foes. The first one against N.C. State resulted in a disappointing 5-4 loss for
Davidson. However, Davidson won two of the three doubles matches as senior Sedge Gray and Dallas won number one doubles
7-6, 6-4, and senior John Hackett and Caldwell took number two doubles 6-4, 6-4. In singles play, freshman Jim Thompson
won number three 6-2, 7-5, and Hodge won number six 4-6, 6-3, 6-3.

“The fast courts really helped me,” said Hodge. “I’m still getting used to playing on clay and the courts at
N.C. State helped me get out of a slump. I think my play and the team’s play is coming around
and the tough schedule we've played so far will help us down the stretch.”

The Wake Forest match was Davidson's only big loss of the week. The Demon Deacons won 8-1, undoubtedly aided by
their fast courts. The one win for Davidson was Thompson's 1-6, 6-3, 7-6 win in number three singles.

“Jim Thompson has played extremely well this year,” said Frank. “He has won some clutch matches over some big opponents.
We are very pleased with his progress.”

Davidson's schedule continues to be densely packed, though the caliber of competition begins to relax in the weeks ahead.

UNITED CAROLINA BANK
Davidson 892-7815
I-77 at Hwy 73 Cornelius/Lake Norman 137 N. Main St, 292-7805

Welcome to Spring Wine Special
$3.60 750ml
$5.60 1.5L Magnum
Imported From France
Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St.
Davidson, N.C. 28036
892-7521
