Sports Despite 300 Yards In The Air, Turnovers Cost Gridders Game By MIKE ADAMS

The Davidson football team again employed an aerial attack against Gardner-Webb on Saturday. Unfortunately, too many of the 55 passes
attempted fell into the wrong hands. The Cats threw six interceptions. Combine those with four fumbles and you get ten
turnovers, too many scoring opportunities for the opponents and a 49-14 blowout.

Four possessions early in the first quarter really tell the story of the game. After an exchange of punts, Davidson
started a drive on their own 20-yard line. The Cats’ Mike Jones fumbled at the 24 on the first play
of the drive. Gardner-Webb’s quarterback then threw an interception on the first play after the fumble recovery. Finally, to complete
the cycle, sophomore Charles Winborne, the Davidson quarterback, was hit from behind and fumbled the ball at the six-yard line.
Gardner-Webb scored on the next play.

The rest of the game went much the same. The Cats turned the ball over in their own territory eight
times. The Davidson defense prevented scores on five of these opportunities, but three turnovers inside the 50-yard line resulted in
touchdowns for Gardner-Webb.

The lack of a rushing attack allowed aggressive pass rushing by the Gardner-Webb line which resulted in 7 quarterback sacks.
The Davidson quarterbacks were under pressure all day and were forced to rush many throws. The lack of time to
set up and throw contributed to the six interceptions in the game.

The second scoring drive came in the closing minutes of the game. It started on the Gardner-Webb 46. Senior Jay
Poag caught Winborne’s eight-yard scoring toss eight plays later. Poag and sophomore Don Davis were key targets for the Davidson
quarterbacks all day. Davis caught 8 passes for 79 yards and Poag had 12 catches for 177 yards. To put
Poag’s numbers in perspective, only one player had more receiving yards for the Wildcats’ 1984 season than Poag had in
Saturday’s game.

Defensively, the Cats did not play poorly despite the lopsided score. Gardner-Webb just started too many drives inside the Davidson
50. The Wildcat defense held them several times, but were asked to do too much. Statistically, the defense performed well.
Gardner-Webb could manage only 187 yards rushing and 234 yards total offense. They needed few yards to get to the
end zone on most occasions, though.

Excellent defensive performances were turned in by junior Marcus Allen and senior Chuck Goff. Allen, a defensive end, had 11
tackles on the afternoon. He also went in as a tight end on the only rushing touchdown the Wildcats managed.
Goff, a linebacker, had 10 tackles. Sophomore Emanuel Burch and junior Charles Showers played well on the defensive line with
5 tackles for losses between them. In the secondary, sophomores Jim Ruark and Robert Sickles each had one interception.

The Wildcats travel to Lewisburg, Pennsylvania on Saturday to play a tough Bucknell team. Bucknell has won 11 of the
14 times they have played Davidson, so the 0-2 Wildcats will enter the game as underdogs.

One more touchdown from a turnover came on a 76-yard interception return by Gardner-Webb defensive back Eric Brewton. His number
is one the Cats should remember. He intercepted 4 passes for 2 touchdowns and ran back four punts for eighty
yards. The turnovers attacked the Cats on both offense and defense. Offensively, there was no consistency because too many drives
were stopped by an interception or a fumble. Three quarterbacks played in the game for Davidson. Junior Steve Bradley started
and played the most downs. He completed 17 of 38 pass attempts for 185 yards and threw four interceptions.Interceptions. Winborne
had nine completions in 13 attempts and threw one touchdown pass and one interception. The third quarterback, junior Jack McCollum,
was one for four with an interception. The Wildcats threw for almost 300 yards but were again hurt by an
ineffective ground game. Senior running back Horace Manor returned to action after his arm injury, but his timing was clearly
off due to lack of practice. His backup, sophomore Eric Ogden, had a good game with six carries for 30
yards. Despite his yards, the Cats still rushed for a net loss of 36 yards.

The first annual United Carolina Bank/Davidson Soccer Tournament showed the difference between a team hungry for a win and a
team that is overconfident. On Saturday, a hungry Davidson soccer team dominated Georgia Southern 2-0. In Sunday's final, however, an
overconfident Wildcat squad was beaten by Belmont Abbey 3-1. Davidson is now 1-4 on the season.

“We came out flat on Sunday,” sophomore midfielder Andy Clarke said. “We didn’t know a thing about Georgia Southern before
we played them and that got us pumped up to play. The score against Georgia Southern doesn’t show how badly
we beat them. Saturday’s game was so easy that we thought Sunday would also be a breeze.”

Against Georgia Southern, Davidson played its best offensive game to date. The Wildcats outshot their opponent 34-3 and clearly dominated
the field. “I was very pleased with our offense Saturday,” coach Charlie Slagle said. “If their goalie hadn't played as
well as he did, the score would have been even more one-sided.”

Davidson's first goal came on a first-half corner kick. Senior Wallace Goodman pounced on a rebound and stuck it in
the net for Davidson’s first goal of the season. Senior Sean Austin gave Davidson an extra cushion by blasting in
a 35-yard shot past Georgia Southern’s overworked goalie to finish the scoring.

In the championship game, Davidson picked up where they left off by scoring an early goal. Senior Tony Cabrales beat
a defender in the penalty area and sent a quick shot past the Belmont Abbey goalie to give Davidson a
1-0 lead five minutes into the game. Then lethargy set in. For the rest of the first half, Belmont Abbey
gradually took control of the game. Though Davidson led 1-0 at halftime, Belmont Abbey threatened the Davidson goal constantly.

Belmont Abbey scored early in the second half when a defensive gap caused the ball to be neither properly cleared
nor handled by the goalie. An opportunistic Abbey forward took advantage of this lapse and knotted the game at 1-1.
Belmont Abbey took the lead for good on a shot junior goalie Jim Kelly said, “simply beat me.” It’s a
soccer cliché that when a goalie makes a mistake, the other team gets a goal. Such was the case and
Belmont Abbey led 2-1. The third and final Belmont Abbey goal, coming on a corner kick, shook Davidson from its
long slumber. The attacks began to materialize and the Wildcats had many good opportunities. Unfortunately, they scored no goals.

“We failed to anticipate all game,” Slagle said. “The hustle was there, but we were reacting instead of anticipating. We
got caught with our midfielders upfield simply because they didn’t anticipate.”

Davidson needs to get their act together in a hurry because 12th ranked Duke comes to town on Friday. Duke
has already recorded five shutouts in six outings so far this year. Davidson has trouble scoring no matter who they
face, so Duke’s stingy defense will make it extra tough on Davidson’s beleaguered forwards.
