**Sports Hitters Take First Place After Sweep Of Series**

By EDWIN PAGE

When Western Carolina came into town on Saturday, they had what must have seemed to be an easy task ahead of them. To win the Southern Division, all they had to do was win one game in the three-game series with the Davidson Wildcats. They had won six straight conference games, and their ace pitcher, Scott Gay, had not lost a conference game in two seasons.

Gay took the mound for the Catamounts in the first game, but this was not to be his day. Davidson pitcher, junior Scott Weaver, set the tone for the day when he homered in the second inning to give himself and the Cats a 1-0 lead. Weaver pitched a great game for the Cats, limiting Western to only two runs in seven innings, and coming up with good pitches when he needed them most. Meanwhile, the Cats could only manage one more run, and going into the bottom of the seventh, the score was knotted at two. With two outs and freshman Bill Masse at second base, freshman Alan Lewis ripped a clutch single to left, scoring Masse to win the game, 3-2.

The second game was another of the high-scoring affairs that the Cats have become accustomed to. The Catamounts jumped out to a 7-2 lead and appeared to be cruising towards first place. The Cats, however, had other ideas. After rallying for four runs in the fifth, sophomore Mark Thompson slugged a solo shot in the sixth to bring the Cats to a 7-7 tie. Western, however, reclaimed the lead in the seventh with two more runs. Once again, the Cats failed to die. In the seventh, Thompson came to the plate with runners at first and second and drove the ball far out of the park, but just foul. Thompson eventually walked to load the bases, and sophomore Dave DePaul also drew a pass to drive in a run. Pinch hitter, junior Chip Knox, came through with a sacrifice fly to score freshman pinch runner Ken Bogert with the tying run.

Sophomore Billy Waitsman retired Western in the eighth, setting the stage for more Davidson heroics. Sophomore David Turgeon started the Cats' eighth with a double. Sophomore catcher Dan Simonds singled up the middle, and Turgeon slid in safely at home with the game-winner.

On Sunday, it was back to pitching as sophomore Steve Condon pitched what Coach George Greer called “his best game since coming here.” The Cats jumped to an early 1-0 lead when Turgeon’s bouncer up the middle scored Keith Helfant from third. However, that was all the offense the Cats could muster for a while, and it fell to Condon to keep the Cats ahead. He was more than up to the task. Condon breezed until the sixth when, with two out and a man at second, he surrendered a single that scored the runner. In his route from second to home, the Western runner had neglected to touch third base, and when Davidson appealed the play, the runner was called out, erasing the run and ending the inning.

In the seventh, the Cats finally gave Condon a cushion when Turgeon slammed a two-run homer to increase the lead to 3-0. The Catamounts finally tallied in the eighth, but the Cats responded in their half of the inning to make it 4-1 on Lewis’s RBI single. Condon finished the job in the ninth with the help of a spectacular home-run stealing catch by DePaul, giving the Cats a sweep and a taste of first place.

Friday, the Cats travel to App State seeking their first-ever Southern Conference championship. The tournament is double elimination, and unless the Cats can win three straight, they will have to test the depth of the suddenly improved pitching.however, feels that Davidson’s pitching is on par with the rest of the competition. “I think it will come down to hitting, and that’s our strong point.” The conference champion will be decided Sunday, and if the Cats continue to play like they have in sweeping their last eight conference games, they have an excellent shot at being there.

Off Again
Wolfpax II
Spiked Punch
The Ward
Rob Odum
Stomp Session
John Mack & Son
Great Wall of China
Off Again
The Unemployed Old Men
Wolfpax I
Wolfpax II
Spiked Punch
Davidson Roofing Co.
The Breakers
Davidson Roofing
Grant Morain
Tom Oddo
Bill Bolding

IMAC Scores Of The Week
OVER
Wolfpax I (15-11, 15-8)
Spiked Balls I (15-6, 15-7)
Revenge of Leilani
Spiked Balls II
Breakers
Four Play (forfeit)
Spike & the Sidelines
Prepared to Take a Dive (15-7, 7-15, 15-6)
Cobras (forfeit)
The Breakers (10-15, 15-4, 15-12)
Four Play (15-22, 13-15, 15-10)
The Ward (6-15, 15-6, 16-14)
Rob Odum (forfeit)
Stomp Session (15-13, 15-11)
Revenge of Leilani (15-3, 15-2)
Prepared to Take a Dive (12-15, 15-10, 16-14)
O’Gradys (15-10, 15-8)

Volleyball tournament starts Monday, April 29—Look for brackets around campus.

Quarterfinalists in the Racquetball Tournament:
Dan Lindsay
Bobby Winston
Don Stovall

Sophomore Ollie Wagner practices batting.

Men's Tennis
Cats End Season With Wins
By JOE JOHNSON

The men’s varsity tennis team scored two important conference road victories and slipped in a third win (just for good measure) this week in preparation for the 1985 Southern Conference Championships. Davidson brought its record to 5-2 in the conference, 21-10 overall, in defeating Appalachian State 5-4, Western Carolina 8-1, and Johnson C. Smith 8-1.

Senior co-captains Sedge Gray and John Hackett finished their last regular season with a flourish, which is good for the teeth. On Friday, Gray defeated Appalachian’s Laneal Vaugham, the 1984 Southern Conference Runner-up, in a hard-fought battle, 6-2, 2-6, 7-5. The next day he came from behind to top Western’s Tad Grattan 4-6, 6-3, 7-5. The icing on the cake was Monday’s 6-3, 6-3 victory over Smith’s Carlos Lopez. Gray is expected to be seeded third among the conference’s number one players at the upcoming tournament.

If Hackett, usually Davidson’s number six singles player, was trying to lose more than three games in any match this week, he failed miserably. His scores were as follows: 6-1, 6-2 over ASU’s Michael Borden; 6-0, 6-2 over WCU’s Tom Stroud; and 6-3, 6-0 over JCSU’s Scott Wells. If the gentle reader should encounter these fellows on our campus, he may refer to them as “Gods of Tennis.”

Coach Jeff Frank was pleased, of course, to pick up the two conference victories, and he wasn’t exactly desolate about JCSU: “ASU was an especially important win for us because we hadn’t been winning the close ones earlier in the year.” He added further that this week’s performance indicated that the team—especially the freshmen (Jim Thompson, Bill Young, and Rick Hodge)—are tournament-ready.

And now for this week’s tournament, beginning April 24 in Greenville, S.C.: Look for Thompson to be the top seed in the number three singles and for Thompson and sophomore Michael Meyer to be the second-seeded tandem in number three doubles. Gray and Hodge are currently cooking at number one doubles; they dropped no sets this week. Team-wise, Davidson should finish third behind Tennessee-Chattanooga and the home-standing Paladins of Furman... but then again one should never count the forces of Righteousness, Justice, and solid backhands out until the movie’s over.

Scores:
1. Gray (DC) d. Vaughn 6-2, 2-6, 7-5
2. Dallas d. Andrew Wong 6-2, 7-6
3. Longo (ASU) d. Thompson 6-2, 6-4
4. Caruso (ASU) d. Young 6-2, 6-3
5. Luxembourg (ASU) d. Hodge 6-2, 0-6, 6-4
6. Hackett (DC) d. Borden 6-2, 6-2
1. Gray-Hodge (DC) d. Vaughn-Caruso 7-6, 6-3
2. Longo-Luxembourg (ASU) d. Hackett-Caldwell 7-6, 6-4
3. Meyer-Thompson (DC) d. Bentley-Borden 6-3, 6-4

Peggy Pierotti