16 By ANDY BARRON

December overflows with sports events to be watched, enjoyed, and discussed by sports fans of a variety of tastes. Football
season reaches its climax just as basketball and hockey are getting into full swing. The tremendous amount of coverage given
to sports, especially college basketball, makes winter term (generally a drippy, cold, and gloomy experience) a difficult time to ignore
that nearby television showing your favorite team, be it North Carolina, N.C. State, Duke, Georgetown, or Louisville. Yet before I
explore the treacheries involved in balancing school and college basketball, I’d like to recognize several outstanding performances by Davidson athletes.

Fall term sports at Davidson provided many memorable moments, most notably the soccer team’s 1-0 upset of lordly Duke. Yet
the dedication and determination exhibited by all of Davidson’s fall sports yielded efforts worthy of recognition and congratulations. Although the
soccer team failed to win the Southern Conference crown, wins over Duke, Appalachian State, and Georgia State highlighted a successful
season. Seniors Tony Cabrales and Wallis Goodman lead the Davidson post-season honors parade by both making their third consecutive appearance
on the All-Southern Conference team. Joining Cabrales and Goodman on the All-Conference team are junior goalie Jim Kelly, making his
second appearance, and sophomore defender Mike Spear. Finally, coach Charlie Slagle joined his players in receiving post-season recognition as he
was chosen as Southern Conference Coach of the Year.

Football coach Vic Gatto and the team had a difficult season but never gave up despite facing opponents that were
always bigger, faster, and better funded. Leading the Wildcats were seniors Lou Krempel and Tony Smith, who were voted by
their teammates as team most valuable players. Freshman David Trontz received honors as the most valuable freshman, while seniors Chuck
Goff and Russ West received recognition as the hardest working and most dedicated players. In the conference, Davidson's football team
was represented by senior Micah Downing and sophomore Mike Poulos, who both made All-Academic for Southern Conference. Kremple and junior
Gary Stewart were Honorable Mention in this same category.

The field hockey team played well down the stretch to have a successful year. Junior sweeper Heather McKee and junior
goalie Nana Lay made the All-Deep South team, an honor allowing them to progress toward All-American status. Finally, junior Greg
Foreman, senior Judy Dalton, and sophomore Kappa Peddy all qualified for the NAIA national cross country meet. Only Dalton elected
to go, however, as travel expenses had to be paid in part by the runners themselves and the meet took
place close to exams.

Fall sports: the ups and the downs

Senior captain Frank Hague led Davidson’s men’s team all year, though he just missed reaching nationals. As a side note,
Hague and Foreman ran in the Atlanta Marathon over Thanksgiving break and qualified for the Boston Marathon, America’s most prestigious
marathon.

Now, on to college basketball and the winter blahs. First of all, if your favorite team appears on TV the
same night you need to study for a test and you really want to watch the game, study in the
afternoon and feel free to watch the game. If you don’t get any study-time in that afternoon, watch the game
anyway since you'll only be distracted by it while you try to study. Second, if you are a die-hard college
basketball fan, try to live on a hall where nobody has a television in their room. After all, no matter
how much you may hate Al McGuire, Billy Packer, or Dick Vitale, no hoops fan can resist the call of
these television harpies who draw the would-be student to the tube and the game in progress. Finally, never go to
the Union during prime basketball hours (weekend afternoons and nights, as well as weeknights) if you have studying to do.
All fans must follow this rule because ESPN always shows good games from the Big East or Big Ten. Most
importantly, anytime the Davidson Wildcats play in Johnston gym or Charlotte, attend the game! This should be an exciting year
for Davidson basketball and the team needs everyone’s support.

BUFFET —ALL YOU CAN EAT—

Mooresville’s First And Finest Italian Restaurant

KING Of PIZZA SPAGHETTI

100% Durham Wheat
OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE
FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD
PARMESAN—ROMANO CHEESE

SALAD BAR
45 Items
FRESH GREEN VEGETABLES
DELICIOUS FRUITS
FLAVORFUL MEATS
RICH DRESSINGS
TASTY CHEESES
WINE CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE
CHILI CON CARNE

ALL FOR DESSERT-TEMPTING HAWAIIAN SALAD $4.35

ALL RATES PER PERSON
SPECIAL RATES FOR CHILDREN UNDER 12—25¢ PER YEAR

BUFFET BUFFET
Sun., Tues., Wed. & Thurs. 5 P.M. til 9:30 P.M.
241 SOUTH BROAD STREET—MOORESVILLE—663-3030

Lunch Buffet—Mon.-Sat., 11 AM-2:30 PM $3.39

Meal Includes:
PIZZA
Still Mooresville’s Finest
SPICY PEPPERONI
CANADIAN BACON
ITALIAN SAUSAGECHOICE BEEF
FRESHLY DICED GREEN PEPPERS
SWEET ONIONS

™ SOUP OF THE DAY
CREAM OF POTATO
VEGETABLE BEEF STOCK
CHICKEN NOODLE
CREAM OF MUSHROOM
MINESTRONE
CLAM CHOWDER

PER PERSON

Top 20 poll features Wolverines
By ANDY BARRON

In order to clutter the world of college basketball with more opinions, The Davidsonian sports staff will have its very
own Top 20 basketball poll this season. This poll exists due to the fanaticism toward college basketball, both here at
Davidson and across the nation, on the part of the poll’s participants. Anyone wishing to participate in this poll should
contact the sports editor for information. And now, the first ever Davidsonian Top 20.

(1) - Michigan - With everyone and more back from last year’s 26-4 Big Ten champs, including Mr. Everything, 6'10”
senior center Roy Tarpley, Michigan looks like the team to beat. Michigan topped pre-season favorite Georgia Tech 49-44 with good,
physical defense. The Wolverines are loaded.

(2) - North Carolina - Coach Dean Smith has all the tools to bring Tar Heel fans another national title.
With four players standing 6'10” or taller, led by Brad Daugherty, no team in the nation has depth underneath that
which North Carolina possesses. UNC needs freshman Jeff Lebo to live up to his press clippings and provide some outside
scoring to complement all that power inside.

(3) - Georgia Tech - A loss to Michigan dropped the Rambling Wreck from the top spot, but Tech could
be back on top before long. In addition to a hoard of upperclass talent, watch freshman star Tom Hammonds try
to become Tech’s fourth straight newcomer of the year in the ACC.

(4 tie) - Georgetown - Even without Patrick Ewing the Hoyas are one of the nation’s best teams. Coach John
Thompson has plenty of talent to throw at unsuspecting opponents.

(4 tie) - Kansas - Powered by the inside game of 6'11” Danny Manning and 7'1” Greg Dreiling and the
long-range bombs of Ron Kellogg, Kansas ranks as the best team west of the Mississippi River.

(6) - Duke - No one questions Duke’s talent, which ranks among the nation’s best. Whether or not Duke can
win important games is another question. Duke silenced a lot of critics by winning the Big Apple NIT already this
year.

(7) - Syracuse - Dwayne (The Pearl) Washington runs a talented Syracuse team which is actually led by the nation’s
least recognized superstar, Raphael Addison.

(8 tie) - Memphis State - If Coach Dana Kirk and the Tigers aren’t locked away in the dungeon of
NCAA probation, look for this squad to go far this season. Seven-foot junior William Bedford ranks among the nation’s best
centers.

(8 tie) - Kentucky - Kenny (Sky) Walker is the nation’s best player. New coach Eddie Sutton has a good
backcourt to help Walker, but needs some more big bodies to challenge the teams ahead of Kentucky.

(10) - Louisiana State - Coach Dale Brown finds his team engulfed in controversy surrounding possible improprieties concerning Tito Hartford,
a prize recruit no longer with LSU. Still, Brown has plenty of talent, led by 6'9” sophomore John Williams, and
the Tigers will battle Kentucky for the SEC crown.

(11) - Oklahoma - With Indiana Pacer Wayman Tisdale staying in Norman for his senior year, the Sooners would be
a Final Four team. Even without him the run-and-gun, scoring machine that is Oklahoma will challenge Kansas in the fight
for bragging honors in the Big Eight and the West.

(12) - Illinois - This team has a reputation for being chokers, but returns five starters from last season’s 26-9
team.

(13) - Louisville - The Cardinals are young and always have a torturous schedule. By the end of the season,
don’t be surprised if Louisville ends up in the Final Four.

(14) - St. John’s - The way junior Walter Berry plays, Redman fans might be saying Chris Who? by the
end of the year.

(15) - Navy - Dave Robinson grew to 6'11” after entering Annapolis, a height that normally would prevent his being
accepted. The Midshipmen are happy he grew as he has blossomed into one of the country’s best centers.

(16) - Notre Dame - Another team that returns five starters. Point guard Dave Rivers is one of the nation’s
best.

(17 tie) - Nevada-Las Vegas - The Running Rebels scared North Carolina in Alaska and should beat some more folks
before the season ends.

(17 tie) - Alabama-Birmingham - Guard Steve Mitchell leads three other returning starters from last year’s 25-9 team.

(19) - Auburn - Everybody, including All-American Chuck Person, returns for last year’s SEC tournament champs.

(20) - Maryland and North Carolina State - Polls often produce ties (this week’s has three). ACC player of the
Year Len Bias leads Maryland while sophomore Chris Washburn must carry a young, but talented, Wolfpack.
