Arts & Entertainment BSC/Union Present '85 Spring And Summer Fashion

By MAURICE HELFGOTT

Fashion is probably almost as hard to write about as it is to predict. It is probably harder still to
display convincingly; yet that’s what the Spring Affair Fashion Show succeeded in doing. Sponsored by the Davidson College Black Student
Coalition and the College Union, the show sought to present Spring and Summer '85 fashion in a glamorous and attractive
light.

To the appropriate rhythms of “Treat Her Like A Lady,” 12 beautiful girls and one lucky young man were guided
onto the stage and skillfully introduced by Patricia Knox, fashion graduate of Queen’s College and proprietor of Davidson Dry Goods.
There were five scenes from the introduction through sport-business wear to beachwear and the finale. The models all chose their
own outfits from any one of four local stores and it was clear that the fashion available and displayed were
true expressions and extensions of personality.

The major themes were versatile mix 'n match separates, cool cottons, linens, silks, and blends. Winter white proved a favorite
color, black lace and beads with or without sequins created a stunning effect. Loose-cut baggy shapes, big shirts, and attention-seeking
accessories such as brass, beads, sashes, brooches, and oversized dangling earrings are all important features of this Spring’s collections. The
beachwear emphasized the continued predominance of the one-piece with a ‘high thigh’ cut and cut-away shapes at the back. Most
attractive at this show were the brown/black leopard prints and the bold black-white geometric shapes.

This season’s palette, incorporating a wide range of colors from the stunning brights to the subtle pastels and unusual combinations,
was skillfully designed to devastating effect.

My personal favorites included a loose-cut silk dress color-blocked vertically into a rich cream and a creamy beige sported by
Whitney Stevens and an outrageous outfit worn by Janet Stovall incorporating bright greens and floral prints. If I must forward
a critique, I would wonder where James “Sandy” Saunder’s skirt was. As a cosmopolitan and fashionable gentleman, he must know
what the trendy men are wearing in New York, London, Paris, and Milan.

Graduation (Gasp!) Three Weeks Before Mine...

The three-hour drive to Hampden-Sydney College, where my twin brother Eddie graduated last weekend, mainly centered around the beauty of
rural Virginia that surrounded the highway. That’s all I really felt like discussing with my parents, anyway. They, on the
other hand, were more interested in hearing about my job next year.

PUNCH DRUNK By DAVID McGEE

“Ummm, well...” filled most of my responses. I was more interested in the weekend I would spend with my brother
and in witnessing a graduation three weeks before my own. After arriving at the house where my brother lives, a
financial conference commenced immediately between him, my parents, and Hampden-Sydney’s financial-aid officer. I was left behind to do homework. When
they returned, the four of us fell into a “we need to do this, we need to get that” frenzy
as we frequently do.

We needed film for the next day. We needed to visit these friends before they got too busy. After an
hour of running around like chickens about to get our heads cut off, we decided that what we needed to
do was not to need to do anything. And...That’s what we did. Soon, a crowd gathered at my brother’s house
for a cookout. About 20 parents, friends, and students attended. Both Eddie’s housemates grew up in Africa, so the dinner
was quite an international event. A French student was there with his parents. His mother remarked, “Oh, it is so
wonderful here. You have so much. This is paradise. It’s so much nicer than Paris.” Well, such an assessment took
most of us aback: isn't Paris supposed to be paradise?

Since more people were standing in the yard than sitting, we decided to take the couch in Eddie’s room outside.
Twenty-five minutes later, we were still trying to get that green monster of a couch out of the house. The
thing wouldn’t freaking go through the front door. Eddie pulled, and I shoved. Surely someone had gotten it inside, therefore
it could also go outside again — at least in this universe. Out the window? It wouldn't fit. The back
door! And so the sofa went, through the kitchen and gingerly over the meal being prepared. Eddie said, “I bet
Jena (one of his housemates) knows that you can’t get it out of the house without taking it apart! And
she’s making us do this just to spite us!” Jena immediately erupted in laughter as did the crew carrying the
couch. Finally, the couch sat in the front yard, with four people sitting on it. I didn’t stick around to
see if it got back inside.

Meanwhile, my dad kept walking over to the car to find out on the radio which horse won the Kentucky
Derby. He showed more than just a casual interest; he was obsessed with knowing the results. At one point I
asked what he had wagered. My car, perhaps? “My horse was scratched yesterday,” he smiled. It somehow wasn't a reassuring
smile.

Saturday had been chilly, but Sunday was a furnace. Vice President George Bush spoke at the commencement ceremony. Hampden-Sydney's tiny
campus was crawling with 50 Secret Service agents the whole weekend. They were easily spotted: sunglasses, earphone cords tastefully tucked
under their jackets, folded arms with a “go ahead, make my day” expression, and a bulge around their thighs where
a compact machine gun likely was strapped and ready for action. Bush's speech was less than memorable. He spouted history
lessons, anecdotes, and advice with an Orson Welles bellow, just as any commencement speaker would. By the time he had
finished, the shade over our seats had fled, and, red-faced, I had sweated through my shirt collar. But the Republican-saturated,
BMW key chain-toting crowd loved every minute. This is Daddy! Our man! Number two to God! The next president of
the United States!

The next president of the United States? It seems like the last president we had named George became the father
of our country, so your guess is probably as good as a New York lottery ticket. I had to be
at work at 8:30 that night — in Davidson. The trip home, plus the hour and 15 minutes to Davidson,
added up to... four hours and 15 minutes... without dinner! “Burn rubber, Dad,” I said as we pulled out of
Hampden-Sydney at 5 p.m. And with a little help from my lead foot, I arrived only 30 minutes late for
work, but with my soap dish and checkbook left behind, somewhere, lost, probably for good. They're replaceable, though, unlike a
wonderful weekend.
