wv + 4

New professors add diversity to campus

By LAURA BATTEN and AARON LEVINE

This is the final installment of new professor profiles.

Catherine Slawy-Sutton

An international professor has joined the French Department this year. Professor Catherine Slawy-Sutton grew up in France and Senegal, and
studied at the University of Nice in France. She considers growing up in Senegal a rich experience. She grew up
and went to school with native Africans. Slawy-Sutton feels that blacks and whites working together helped subdue racism.

When her husband, Professor Homer Sutton, who is also a Davidson professor, was the director of our program at Montpelier,
Slawy-Sutton taught at Montpelier as well. She taught English to Africans and French to foreigners. Her experiences in the academic
world of both France and America have led her to keen observations on the comparison between European (French) and American
academic life. In France, the professors tend to be aloof from the students; the students are mostly on their own,
she explained. The academic life is less regimented in most of Europe than in the United States.

Despite Slawy-Sutton’s university background, she is enthralled by the small-town college atmosphere of Davidson and its honor code, which she
was not familiar with in France. She believes the code promotes a climate of trust and closeness between students and
professors. She earned her Masters in English at the University of Nice, and her PhD in French at the University
of Indiana in Bloomington.

Giles Cutler, Jr.

Joining the ROTC department this year as assistant professor of military science is Captain Giles Cutler, Jr. This term he
is teaching Freshman ROTC and is serving as enrollment and recruiting officer for the department. Cutler is from Bath, N.C.,
which is located in the eastern part of the state. He graduated from East Carolina University in 1973 with a
B.A. in Sociology and Psychology. After starting seminary, Cutler had a change of heart about becoming a minister. Instead, he
went to work for a Tennessee bank, of which he became assistant manager, and later he spent five years working
for the government.

Cutler began his military career in the North Carolina National Guard in 1971, where he was enlisted for two years.
He then went on to Officer Candidate School. Of the approximately 435,000 national guardsmen, Cutler is one of 800 serving
on active duty. Cutler has an assortment of hobbies. He enjoys hunting (he is an avid turkey hunter) and usually
jogs five miles a day. He also spends time training retrievers, including two Labradors of his own.

James Sperling

James Sperling comes to Davidson as a visiting lecturer of political science this year. A native Californian, Sperling was born
in San Francisco and lived in Santa Barbara for many years. He graduated from the University of California at Santa
Barbara with a B.A. in political science in 1974. Sperling has spent quite a bit of time studying abroad. He
won a Fulbright-Hayes graduate fellowship to attend the University of Kiel in Germany and a graduate fellowship to study at
the University of Geneva in Switzerland. While doing post-graduate work at Edinburgh University, Sperling met his wife of 11 years,
Joy. She is an art history professor at the University of Iowa. Sperling received his M.A. at Johns Hopkins School
of Advanced International Studies and is in the process of completing his PhD at the University of California.

Roy C. Caldwell

Roy C. Caldwell, Jr. has joined the French department for this fall and winter as a visiting lecturer. Presently, Caldwell
is completing his dissertation at UNC on comparative literature which he will submit this winter for his Ph.D. Caldwell enjoys
games so he chose to write his dissertation on the ludic (game-like) aspects of narrative, discussing "stories that tell themselves
by game structures.” Caldwell’s paper surveys works of Robbe-Grillet, Kafka, and Sterne.

Caldwell grew up in Nashville, Tenn. and in areas of Virginia. He took Latin in high school but was interested
in the maths and sciences. He attended college at Rensselaer in upstate New York, where he started out as an
engineering student but eventually became a major in European history. He also studied three years of German there. Impressed with
Davidson, Caldwell commented that this is an “intimate community in which students are both bright and eager.” Reflecting on his
experience at Chapel Hill, Caldwell remarked...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

that one has “the privilege of being anonymous” there. However, at Davidson, he said, one has the privilege of isolation
from the “turmoil of the outside world and its complexities,” thus students have the opportunity to devote utter concentration to
studies. Caldwell also felt that the physical separation of departments at UNC, “each in its own isolated building,” created an
atmosphere of rivalry between the different academic areas, and that Davidson's Chambers provided a pleasant and cordial scholastic community. Caldwell
likes to run his classes at a rapid pace and emphasizes active participation from students.

James Sperling

Psychologists provide varied services

The following is the first installment of a monthly guest column written by members of the College Counseling Staff. Each
article will present information relevant to broad concerns about mental health.

At any given time several folks at Davidson cross the fine line from “stimulated” to “stressed,” from “disappointed” to “depressed,”
or from “apprehensive” to “anxious.” Most keep these concerns to themselves to preserve their privacy—others’ problems can exhaust the goodwill
and resources of friends, hall counselors, faculty advisors, or the Dean of Students’ Office. When members of the Davidson community
experience these junctures of crisis, confusion, or behavioral and emotional difficulty, the Davidson College Counseling Center can offer them help.

Consistent with the practices of professional psychologists, the identities of those using the Counseling Center remain confidential. Services are offered
at no charge to students. They include counseling, psychological assessment, psychotherapy, and, when appropriate, referral for community resources. The Counseling
Center is located in the suite of offices in the south basement of the Union Building and anyone desiring an
appointment should contact Mrs. Catherine Wilson at extension 130. Appointments are available in daytime and evening hours. Services are provided
by professionals who have earned doctorates in psychology.

Dr. David Staton is beginning his third year with the Counseling Center, with office hours two days per week. His
graduate training includes a doctorate from UNC-Chapel Hill and an internship at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center. After
working almost a decade with the two-county Gaston-Lincoln Area Mental Health Program as a staff psychologist and as Director of
Psychological Services, he left that position in January to establish a private practice as a licensed clinical psychologist in nearby
Lincolnton. Staton notes that as an alumnus of Davidson, he finds it gratifying to observe the growth of the College
and to contribute to furthering that growth within the community and the individuals seeking services. He adds that students here
are especially engaging and effective clients who grapple with issues and do a lot with their sessions.

New to the Davidson community, Dr. Elizabeth Shaw is a licensed clinical psychologist practicing in Charlotte. She pursued her graduate
training in San Diego, California, and practiced there for five years before relocating to North Carolina a year ago. Eating
disorders are an area of particular interest in her practice. In addition to her clinical work here and in Charlotte,
Shaw has adjunct faculty appointments in the psychology departments at UNCC and Queens College.

Dr. Cole Barton works in the Counseling Center on Tuesday evenings. He is an assistant professor in the psychology department
and directs Davidson's summer internship program at Broughton State Hospital. His clinical experience includes work in private practice, community mental
health, a correctional institution, and a pediatric hospital. He has published research methods. One reason Barton enjoys work in the
Counseling Center is because it allows him to make a professional contribution to the College besides teaching.

By virtue of their unique point on difficulties in the Davidson community, the Counseling Center staff is in a good
position to recognize trends in campus life that may become more widely shared problems. The staff works with the faculty’s
Counseling and Guidance Committee in concert with the Dean of Students’ office and student representatives to identify needs and anticipate
student concerns. To further complement the one-to-one services provided in the counseling center, the staff is also available to make
group presentations to students and staff, and is going to undertake projects with the Psychology Club to heighten campus awareness
of concerns which should receive some preventive focus. Anyone can request information about a specific topic by writing the question
and mailing it to Mrs. Wilson, or if anonymity is not an issue it may be submitted directly to the
counseling office.

Ken Jones
