Opinions ‘Top 40s Communicate Serious Message Craig Detweiler Hearing “We are the World” on the radio for the one zillionth
time the other day, I considered the rather weighty questions and messages that a few artists are daring to ask
within the usually stable confines of radio. After the mindless “more, more, more” and doing “the hustle” during the disco
era, radio tunes seemed to lose their ability to communicate significant facts or feelings. Several current musicians have rediscovered the
opportunity to raise issues and communicate truths through the medium of popular music.

Consider the substantial impact of the two songs geared toward fundraising for the hungry in Africa. “Do They Know it’s
Christmas?” and “We Are The World” may not address the causes of the hunger problem, but they do an admirable
job of dramatizing the need. Band Aid’s ingenious tie-in of Christmas, giving, and the starving Ethiopians opened hearts and wallets.
The USA equivalent also has experienced remarkable success and sales. People are being fed because of a stupid little pop
song. Amazing!

While the world hunger songs are aimed toward fundraising rather than artistry, some musicians like Bruce Springsteen construct a portrait
of the problems they envision with their environment. While we heard “Born in the USA”’s repetitive chorus over and over,
Springsteen also managed to slip in a heavy statement about the plight of Vietnam Vets.

Got in a little hometown jam so they put a rifle in my hand / Sent me off to a
foreign land to go and kill the yellow man / Come back home to the refinery / Hiring man says
“son if it was up to me” / Went down to see my V.A. man / He said “son don’t
you understand” / Born in the USA

The chorus does not proclaim America as the land of freedom and opportunity, but short memories and broken promises. Consider
“Downbound Train” from the “Born in the USA” album:

I had a job, I had a girl / I had something mister in this world / I got laid
off down at the lumber yard / Our love went bad, times got hard / Now I work down at
the carwash, where all it ever does is rain / Don’t you feel like you’re a rider on a downbound
train

Springsteen develops working-class characters who speak directly to Ronald Reagan’s America, the conservative mood, and the problems of unemployment. Ireland’s
U2 tackles global issues of war and peace. From their direct contact with war-torn Northern Ireland arose the call to
fight for peace in “Sunday, Bloody Sunday.” Songwriters Bono Vox and Dave “The Edge” Evans display a sharp, insightful perspective
on our world. They portray their moral dilemma quite vividly:

I can’t believe the news today / I can’t close my eyes and make it go away / Broken bottles
under children’s feet, / Bodies strewn across a dead-end street, / But I won't heed the battle call, /of Dire
Straits composed “Private Dancer” as a dark vision of a world without love. For example:

Well the men come in these places / And the men are all the same / You don’t look at
their faces / And you don’t ask their name / You don’t think of them as human / You don’t
think of them at all / You keep your mind on the money / Keeping your eyes on the wall.

Potential love and meaning get reduced to a sheer economic endeavor. However, the singer expresses dreams beyond her current situation:

I want to make a million dollars / I want to live out by the sea / Have a husband
and some children / Yeah I guess I want a family / But I’m your private dancer / A dancer
for money / I'll do what you want me to do / I’m your private dancer / A dancer for
money / And any old music will do.

Tina Turner conveys the hope that we all share for our lives to be meaningful, satisfying, and significant. Sadly, the
song implies that the private dancer, and maybe we, are unable to escape the situation on our own. Perhaps the
Police best summarized the situation and our options on their “Ghost in the Machine” album. They called upon their listeners
to take a “Secret Journey”:

You will see light in the darkness / You will make some sense of this / When you’ve made your
secret journey / You will find this love you miss.

Whether in social concerns for the poor, the oppressed, and the unemployed or personal concerns like spiritual bankruptcy and unfound
love, popular Top 40 radio has dared lately to raise some serious questions. I hope today’s hits compel you to
wonder about the needs of others and the needs of yourself. Perhaps you can make that secret journey.

Detweiler is a senior English major from Charlotte, NC.

---

Raising Age Will Not Solve Problem
Aaron Levine

Many states are considering or have already passed legislation raising the legal drinking age to 21. In response to the
epidemic of alcohol abuse among certain of America’s youth and the increasing toll of alcohol-related accidents on our highways, the
government is giving the states a choice of either raising their drinking age to 21 by September 1986 or losing
all of their federal highway funds. North Carolina is one of a number of states which has already decided to
raise the age. On September 1986, North Carolina will have a uniform age for the purchase of all alcoholic beverages,
including beer, of course.

Since the drive for raising the drinking age began in earnest, with some states raising it from 18 to 19
and then to 21, Americans have debated the arguments, pro and con, of raising the age. The old argument that
one can fight at 18 and not be able to drink is getting old. Opponents of raising the drinking age
need new arguments to back themselves up.

One of the arguments for raising the age is the opinion that abuse of alcohol and alcohol-related traffic accidents are
rampant among college-age youth. It is a problem, I admit, however, college-age youth, the ones who will be most affected,
are a tiny segment of the population. (Most high-school age youth are under 18 anyway.) In terms of sheer volume,
rampant abuse is greater in the older stages of life. A decline in alcohol abuse among college-age youth will not
change much. Of course, the adult age brackets take in a wider swath of population anyway. Attempting to address the
alcohol problem in regards to them will be more beneficial for America than to cut off the great majority of
us from drinking. When will our politicians ever learn? A problem just does not go away by making it illegal.

When the legal age was 18 in my state, Virginia, for example, many of my old high-school friends were drinking
during their early underclassmen years of high school. Do our elected officials really think we will not drink, now that
the age will be 21 soon? The legal age limit for beer is nearly a farce! How so? First, we
must ask why alcohol is such a big thing for high schoolers and just a normal thing for college students?
It is because the idea of illegality so fascinates America’s youth. When we are too young to do it, doing
it makes us feel more mature. It is the “adult” thing to do, since only “adults” can do it. Taking
a beer is a rite of passage in our society. Once we are adults, beer imparts nothing more on us,
beer is simply what we drink. Also, doing an illegal act and not being caught is a thrill for many
of our younger generation. For college students this is not the case. Once the state raises the age, the thrill
of illegality will return to our college campuses.

I want to make it clear that I do not condone breaking the law. Should we all go out on
September 1986 and break the law? This is an individual choice. However, if there is time for the state legislature
to reverse its decision then I believe we can lobby for a reversal. Before we accept this new law passively
if it should come to this, think of how utterly foolish raising the age would be: 18 “did not work,”
19 “did not work,” and now it’s 21. What if 21 does not work? Will the age be raised to
25, to 30, to 60, to prohibition? Of course, we know that the 1920s prohibition was an utter failure. If
a general prohibition is “nuts,” then what of a prohibition only against our youth under 21? The latter seems more
ridiculous because it only wants to “solve” the problem with one small segment, not with everybody. Why is an administration
who says it wants the government off the backs of the people and the states making such a brazen intrusion
on both with a most pathetic tactic, withholding federal highway funds? What madness! Yet it does not have to be
this way.

Levine is a freshman from Roanoke, Va.
