6

Friday, October 25, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Homecoming frivolity: a weekend on film

By LAURIE BALLENGER

Homecoming means different things to different people. HA! How’s that for meaningless drivel? To many, it means an exhausting, exhilarating
weekend of parties, games, and too much consumption of too many substances (food, alcohol, pick your favorite vice). To others,
it means a quiet, well-planned weekend of contemplation and moderation. Will the ten people who can claim that please step
forward?

Since I didn’t attend every party, dance, or game (shameful, but true, although I tried), I wandered the halls collaring
poor helpless individuals and threatening them with grave physical injury if they didn’t give me a quote.

On Friday, many students went out to dinner. For most, this entailed going to Charlotte and, as everyone’s favorite junior
Barry Clark put it: “Sowing out.” Some boys were amazed at how much their dates could eat. From freshman John
Coleman: “As soon as she looked at the menu, my date’s eyes glazed over and she could only whisper ‘food’.
She threatened to go back in the kitchen and help fix our appetizers. It was frightening.”

Back at the castle, a mellower crowd settled in the 900 Room to listen to the jazz sounds of Cathexis,
while others congregated at band parties on the Court.

On Saturday, the good souls who were conscious at noon trooped to the soccer game to cheer the Cats on
to victory. Freshman Jay Barron described the game as “... intense. It was great to see everyone meeting old friends
and just generally having a good ole homecoming weekend. But people were still paying attention to the game. Each goal
received what had to have been a five-minute standing ovation.”

The football game: sunshine, sunglasses, and seeing everyone. Guzzling Cokes, gobbling hotdogs (more food!) and having post-mortem discussions of the
night before. Wondering how anyone can wear a Wildcat costume and not pass out from heat exhaustion.

After the game: more parties. When will it all end? A bonfire out in the middle of the Court. Mibs
Raney reflected on this event: “I haven’t had S’mores since I quit girl scouts (all the Brownies were mean to
me — that’s why I’m like I am now.) They were incredible, (the S’mores, not the Brownies) of course, chocolate
is one of the dominant pleasures in life. I liked the fact that the dress was casual as compared to
all the semi-formals.”

About 9:30, people started wandering over to the dance at the Commons. Lauren Russell was a bit confused: “I walked
in. Why were all those people staring at the dance? Is this a dance or a dive-over-the-railing-at-the-Commons-party? I liked the
band but the extra crispy chicken nuggets left a lot to be desired. Of course, I’d eaten beaucoups at Eli’s
(I may never recover from the peanut butter pie!) I liked the way they set up the dance with the
band on one side and tables where you could sit and talk on the other. That way it wasn’t so
loud that you couldn’t hear yourself think.”

More parties. More exhaustion. The weekend finally ended. AW! But smile evilly and cherish the thought: there’s always next year.
Oh, who cares, there’s always next weekend!
