6 Friday, February 8, 1985/The Davidsonian

Bird Workshop Presents Three British Comedies

By ROSS HOLT

The workshop presentation of three British comedies this week marks a shift from the mostly American plays of the past
two weeks. Unlike the plays of the previous workshops, these rely on irony of situation as well as on characterization
to make their points.

Audience members familiar with tamer Monty Python skits and the English situation comedies PBS broadcasts will recognize the humor of
Mother Figure and Between Mouthfuls by Alan Ayckbourn, and Chinamen, by Michael Frayn.

Slightly stereotypical but believable characters find themselves in potentially explosive situations with friends, lovers, and other demented characters. Their attempts
to prevent the impending social calamity form the basis of the comedy. They are, in essence, more subtle (and artful)
semblances of shows like John Cleese’s frenetic “Fawlty Towers.”

The evening’s first production, directed by senior Atondra Williams, depicts an evening in the life of a couple whose marriage
is on the rocks. They become moral captives—children—of the woman next door, an incredibly domestic homemaker.

The action takes place in the living room of Leslie Compton (senior Laura Turnburke), a mother harried by her home-life.
The set is a dissonant array of living room furniture, laundry (both clean and dirty), and children’s stuffed toys. Leslie
runs onstage amidst it all, ferrying things between kitchen and bedroom, ignoring intrusions such as telephones and doorbells.

Rosemary (sophomore Noel Brewster), a neighbor, drops in one evening to find out why Leslie pays no attention to the
outside world. When Rosemary’s husband Terry (senior Tim Waples) appears to help persuade Leslie to open up her world, however,
the couple’s marital problems become apparent. Leslie’s oft-practiced motherly instincts resurface and she begins to show them the childishness of
their ways.

Mother Figure works quite well. As Leslie, Turnburke captures the arms-folded, toe-tapping authority of the stern-but-loving mother. Waples and Brewster
are quite convincing, as well, as the feuding couple. All three actors play well off one another, and the timing
is almost always on. The blocking, too, enhances the lines; Leslie controls the situation by ignoring and finally dividing Rosemary
and Terry. Mother Figure integrates a good script, fine actors, fitting production values, and thoughtful direction in an all-around successful
production.

Between Mouthfuls, directed by senior Valerie Hinton, is a more complex play, not as obviously funny, but equally as successful.
It concerns two couples who show up at an Italian restaurant separately. They are served by a somewhat self-absorbed waiter,
who acts like he has more important things to do.

Though the second couple make it known as they enter the restaurant that the couples know each other, the play’s
tension comes from the audience’s and some of the characters’ ignorance of the true relationship between the couples. Until that
tension becomes overt, the waiter (sophomore Wayne Magruder) hovers like a vulture, linking the two tables placed at diagonally opposing
corners of the stage.

Magruder carries off the John Cleese-like waiter’s role with just the right combination of flippancy, arrogance, and unspoken disgust at
his patrons. In doing so, he fires the ensemble and holds the separate elements together. As he moves between tables,
audience attention focuses first on one couple and then on the other as the plot unfolds and the center of
attention falls on both couples at once.

Magruder complements the actors playing the couples in a fine ensemble. Senior Scot Myers and freshman Clara Broniec play the
Pearces, the older couple; senior John Syme and freshman Mary Olive Smith play Martin and Polly, the other couple.

The dialogue does not shift from one couple to the other in ordered, self-contained blocks. Rather, it moves back and
forth in bits of overheard conversation. Consequently, when one couple is engaged in spoken conversation, the other couple must keep
the unheard conversation lively and directed towards their next set of lines. The actors manage this difficult task quite well.

The design, minimal but adequate for the needs of the production, gives the feel of a restaurant. Tablecloths, napkins, and
chair cushions match in color and the lights are appropriately low.

Between Mouthfuls is a tense, witty comedy with uniformly good performances. With production values to match, it complements Mother Figure
quite well.

Chinamen, the final production, directed by senior Thurston Hatcher, is less successful. Senior Jenny Cooper and freshman Lance Luckey play
Jo and Stephen, a couple who are about to begin a dinner party. They discover, however, that they have mistakenly
invited the former husband of a lady who has run away with a gay punk-rocker, both of whom have been
invited themselves.

So, the play revolves around the couple's attempt to prevent Bea, the ex-wife, and ex-husband Barney from meeting. Cooper and
Luckey double roles, Cooper playing Bea and Alex, her boyfriend, and Luckey playing Barney.

The production fails, though, because of a long stretch of tedium in the middle. Though strong in the beginning and
towards the end, dull predictability sets in as Jo and Stephen try to keep the dinner party alive, Bea happy
in the living room, and Barney happy in the kitchen. You’ve seen it all before on American television, and only
the British sense of humor approaches saving the play in the end.

Problems exist in this production, too. The blocking magnifies the tedium, however, sending the actors along the same diagonal between
kitchen and living room interminably. Consequently, large areas of the stage go unused. The actors do not seem to feel
comfortable in their secondary roles until late in the play, either.

Despite the weakness of the third play, this week’s workshops are the best yet. The plays are more theatrical and
better integrate the elements of design and production. And, they depict a wittiness and an outlook you just do not
find on this side of the Atlantic.
