8 Friday, February 15, 1985/The Davidsonian

Grammy Award Nominee To Perform On Campus

By STEVE MANK

Christian contemporary performer and songwriter Michael W. Smith will be coming to Love Auditorium next Friday. Smith will take the stage along with fellow artist Kathy Troccoli.

Smith, who hails from West Virginia, began his performing career after a 1978 move to Nashville. After stints with several local Christian groups, he settled into songwriting and studio keyboard work. Smith's big break came when recording artist Amy Grant began to take notice of his material. The songs he penned for her quickly rose to the top of the gospel charts. The two soon began a partnership which resulted in instrumental backup, an album of collaborations for Smith, and eventually marriage. Two and one-half years of touring followed, with Smith as supporting act for Grant. Lately, he has been touring separately because of his own success and because Grant has been staying home with their newborn son.

Smith’s new record, aptly titled 2, shows him taking an even more important role in his music than the first. Smith is an adept keyboardist and each track finely showcases his synthesized work. At times, the computerized sounds get a little dull and vapid, but the message of the songs is strong enough to make up for the weakness of the music.

Smith, as well as opening act Kathy Troccoli, has received a good deal of recognition including several Grammy Award nominations for gospel music. Following the show here, the two will fly to Los Angeles for the Michael Smith and Kathy Troccoli ceremony. The show promises to be an exercise in excess. Together the two acts will have about 17 musicians onstage.

Concert committee Chairperson Scott Huie said, “Now I realize that some people have prejudices against this kind of music, but I just hope they will give it a shot.” Tickets for the show have almost sold out, but not, according to Huie, to Davidson students. Most of the tickets have sold to Charlotte area Christian youth groups. Students intending to go to the show should buy tickets soon. “Tickets are selling like hotcakes and it's definitely going to be a sellout before the day of the show,” Huie said.

By LAUREN SMITH

“Poetry is the intersection of some fortuitous event and the interworkings of the mind,” said poet Stephen Sandy, practically off the top of his head. I was amazed. We were in a windy Pinto on our way to Winston-Salem where he was to give his next reading, the various parts of the car rattling so loudly that he had to shout.

Sandy visited Davidson Monday. He attended English Professor Anthony Abbott’s creative writing class and spoke individually with student writers in the afternoon. That evening, he read his poetry to an audience of about sixty people in the 900 Room.

Among the awards and honors that Sandy has received are the Academy of American Poets Prize from Yale, a Breadloaf Poetry Fellow Invitation, and a nomination for the Pulitzer Prize. In 1981 he was invited to teach at Rikkyo University in Tokyo. He was a guest at the Ossabaw Island Project in 1974 and in 1980. His latest collection of poetry, entitled Riding to Graylock, has been praised by Pulitzer Prize Nominee poet Dave Smith and critic John Hollander of The Yale Review.

Sandy was educated at Yale and Harvard. At Harvard, he roomed with Abbott. It is this “happy accident” which gave us the privilege of having Sandy on campus, and gave me the privilege of talking to him on the highway between Davidson and Winston-Salem. The wind shook the window that would not close and a truck blew the car we rode in a little sideways as Sandy told me some of his ideas about the creative process. The sort of “fortuitous events” that inspire him may be as large as anImportant political happening, or as small as the utterance of a single word. “Oyster Cove” from his book *Riding to Graylock* began to form in his mind when a student asked the meaning of the word “pergola.” Sandy lives in Bennington, Vermont, with his wife and two children. This trip, during which he read at several universities and colleges, was his first to North Carolina. Perhaps it shall be the occasion for a North Carolina poem.

Poet Steven Sandy

Battle Of The Doughnuts: And The By MARVIN OVERBY ’83 special to The Davidsonian

It could happen only at Davidson. The College’s resident advisors (“RAs” in the inevitable acronymic form) have endorsed not a beer, not a hallucinogenic drug, not a brand of armor-piercing bullets, but a doughnut. Do not adjust your antennae, you heard it right. The RAs now have an official doughnut.

The idea of choosing an official doughnut for the RAs — and, by implication, for the entire housing office juggernaut — was the brainstorm of senior Beth Maczka. And on Monday the idea came to fruition. During a doughnut tasting competition attended by 26 RAs and assorted special guests (including Missy Kuykendall, Charlie Summers, Dana Lemon, and Laura Williams), the group selected Jeannie’s (formerly Emery’s) doughnuts of Mooresville as the best the area has to offer.

Rules for tasting were simple enough for even the best trained of RAs to understand. Each participant was to sample each of four different doughnuts — in addition to Jeannie’s the contestants were Cashion’s, the B & B, and Krispy Kreme. After evaluating the doughnut for taste, texture, clarity, vintage, body, and bouquet, tasters were to describe it in one word or less, tell where and on what occasion they would suggest its use, and rate it in comparison to the others. “Of course,” insisted Maczka a bit defensively, “we cleaned our palates with Coca-Cola between samples.”

Jeannie’s win was a particularly easy one. Maczka seemed to speak for the entire group when she classified the pastry as a “delicate yet unpretentious table doughnut... the binge par excellence.” Second place finisher in the competition was the entry from Cashion’s. On a scale from 26 (best) to 104 (worst), it polled a strong 41. However, at least one judge vehemently disagreed with the ranking and described it as “gnarly, terrible, too sweet, oily, just basically a sucky doughnut.” He went on to argue at length that it should only be served with a plumber's helper to your worst enemy.

To no one’s surprise, the accessible, pedestrian, and ever-so-ordinary doughnuts from Krispy Kreme (a rather disturbing name if you think about it for too long) had a lock on third place. In what was in some ways a crushing blow to those of us who live for “Neil’s Meals,” “Eggs by Ethel,” and the cheeseburger platter with what appears to be genuine Squeeze Parkay processed imitation cheese topping, the entry from B & B came in dead last. And not only did it lose, it was rather roundly abused in the process. In fact, the adjective “heavy” — with all its undeservedly negative connotations — played a key role in almost every description of the doughnut. One acerbic critic compared the pride of B & B to heavy-duty motor oil and suggested it would only be appropriate for barn raisings in Gaston County. Since he or she has every reason to fear for his or her life, I will not reveal the name of said wit (at least not without considerable monetary incentive).

Anyway, I’m sure you — like I — will be able to rest much more soundly now with the knowledge that the area’s doughnuts have been tried, tested, judged, assessed, and ranked by the same people who manage to lose your key deposit each year. I feel safer already.