Friday, September 20, 1985

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ratliff: One Of The Ten Best Professors In Nation

By JEFF LESESNE

Charles Ratliff, Davidson’s Kenan Professor of Economics, finished in the top ten in the 1985 Professor of the Year contest
held by the Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE). Ratliff, one of nine runners-up, received the Gold Medallion
award. He was selected from 256 nominees by a jury chaired by Ernest Boyer, president of the Carnegie Foundation for
the Advancement of Teaching. The jury relied mainly on letters from former students in making its decision.

Boyer noted, “I am confident that there’s no better way of ensuring excellence in schools and colleges than recognizing and
rewarding outstanding teachers.” He continued, “When we single out gifted teachers for special recognition, we send a powerful and important
message that teaching in America counts.”

About the award, Ratliff said, “It was embarrassing to get singled out. It seems the award goes to the College,
not to a single individual.” He said, “I represent other teachers in the profession.” The whole event was a surprise
to Ratliff. He had no idea that he had been nominated. Ratliff said, “I was tipped off when someone congratulated
me in the hall.” He then read about the competition in the library in a newspaper.

According to Ratliff, “One of the nice things about it (the award) was hearing from former students, like some from
30 years ago.” Ratliff added: “My greatest satisfaction [as a teacher] comes from seeing someone light up as the meaning
of something I’m explaining becomes clear. My time in the classroom is the high spot of my day.”

Ratliff came to Davidson as a freshman in 1943. After two years here he went into the Navy during WWII.
He was in the supply corps and the Navy sent him to Chapel Hill and Harvard Business School to take
accounting courses. Ratliff said, “During that time I spent five hours a day in class.” Ratliff returned to Davidson and
was able to graduate on time in 1947. Ratliff was asked by the late Dr. C.K. Brown

Willingham Becomes First

By ANDREA DIEDRICH

Carol Connor Willingham, a member of Davidson’s first class to break the all-male tradition, has broken another tradition here. She
was elected the first woman president of the Davidson College Alumni Association in their summer balloting. Willingham, a 29-year-old Raleigh
stockbroker, is also the youngest person ever to hold the office. Jamie May, alumni director, believes that her youth may
have an even greater impact than her sex. He said, “While she will certainly be sensitive to all the alumni,
her age will have a great appeal to recent graduates.”

Willingham herself does not believe that her sex will have a very strong effect on her plans as president. “I
don’t see the position as enormously related to gender, and I don’t see any great new causes that I’m going
to be supporting just because I’m a woman,” she said. She does plan to utilize her perspective as a woman
in issues that face the College.

Willingham will serve as president-elect during the 1985-1986 year while William Davis serves as president. As president in the 1986-1987
year she will head the alumni association’s board of directors. She will also sit on the college’s board of trustees
for

Economics Professor Charles Ratliff.To remain at Davidson as an accounting instructor for the following year. Ratliff felt it would be
good experience, so he accepted. The following year Brown made him assistant professor of economics. "I never intended to be
a professor," Ratliff said. "I thought I’d go into business, but during my second year here the teaching bug bit
me."

Ratliff left Davidson in 1949-1951 to earn his master’s degree, and in 1953-1954 to obtain his doctoral degree, both from
Duke University. From 1963-1966 Ratliff went to Lahore, Pakistan to set up an economics graduate program at Forman Christian College.
He was with the United Methodist Board of Global Ministries. He returned to teach in Pakistan in 1969-1970.

Ratliff has also served as a visiting professor at UNC at Charlotte; Appalachian State University, Boone, NC; University of the
Punjab and Kinnaird College, both in Lahore, Pakistan.

Ratliff has received numerous other awards for his teaching abilities. He was named Outstanding Educator in America in 1971. He
also received the Alumni Appreciation Award from Davidson in 1970, and in 1972 he received the Thomas Jefferson Award at
Davidson. This award recognizes the faculty member who gives of himself beyond the call of duty. In 1977 he was
named Kenan Professor of Economics, an honor recognizing teaching ability.

Ratliff has been the author of several publications including Interstate Apportionment of Business Income for State Income Tax Purposes. Ratliff
is also active in the Democratic Party of Mecklenburg County and the Methodist Church. He serves on the national board
of directors for the Rural Advancement Fund/National Sharecroppers Fund. He also directed Bread for the World in 1983-84.

Ratliff is also a member of the National Tax Association, Southern Economic Association, American Economic Association, Association for Asian Studies,
Southern Finance Association, American Association of University Professors, American Council for the United Nations University, Fulbright Alumni Association, Phi Beta
Kappa, and Omicron Delta Kappa.

Ratliff is married to the former Mary Virginia Heilig and has three children.

Woman President Of Alumni

Both years. May sees Willingham’s enthusiasm about Davidson as one of her strongest assets as president-elect of the alumni association.
“Her proven record of alumni service was key to her election,” he said. “All the candidates were outstanding.” She has
served as decade chairman of alumni fund-raising, and she is on the Davidson alumni admissions program (DAAP) in Raleigh.

Willingham was placed on the ballot for election following her nomination by the alumni body and reviewed by the alumni
board of directors. Two other alumni were on the ballot.

Welcome To All — Especially the Freshmen! Bring this ad for free frozen yogurt Trissy Lomax, owner 128 S. Main
St. Davidson, N.C.

Twenty-five percent of the alumni voted. May was very positive about the turnout and commented, “It’s the highest percentage we've
ever had, and it is much higher than at most other colleges and universities.”

Willingham will be installed as president-elect on October 19 as a part of the homecoming festivities. She graduated from Davidson
in 1977 with a degree in economics, and currently works for Robinson-Humphries/American Express. She is married to Edward Lee Willingham
IV, a 1976 Davidson graduate and has two children.

Carol Willingham
First Union National Bank
P.O. Box 39
Davidson Cornelius Huntersville
