8 Friday, February 8, 1985/The Davidsonian

Skiing: If the post-holiday hoopla has left you feeling flat, Valentine’s Day portends few knockers on your dorm door, and the winter-time blues at Davidson make suicide a viable alternative to flunking exams, cheer up. Street hockey isn’t the only option for outdoor sport enthusiasts—or even for library grinders with their pale faces and armloads of books. Pack some people into any available car and cruise down I-77 past Statesville. (No, not to go bowling—although that, too, can be fun with the proper ratio of alcohol to blood cells swimming happily around in the body’s stream.) Keep cruising and flash your right-side blinkers at the Elkin exit. Kick it out onto Highway 421 past North Wilkesboro toward Boone. Boone is where it all begins—the skiing, that is. Once in this thriving little burg of a metropolis, turn left somewhere, I forget exactly, 421 Business perhaps, go down the hill and through the intersection past Wendy’s—a must post-trip pit stop. Follow the signs from there. A bunch of minor resorts, and their bogus billboard advertisements, will accost the unwary road warrior, but these trifling temptations should be quickly passed by. Actually, I don’t recall ever seeing skiers at Hounds Ear and other off-beat places.

Indoor Track Prepares Team For New Season
By DWAYNE D. WRIGHT

There was a time when the track season did not start until the flowers began blooming. Then, to the delight of track coaches all around the world, someone invented indoor track. Davidson track coach Gwen Harris is making good use of the indoor season to prepare her team for the upcoming outdoor season.

“I look at indoor as preparation for outdoor,” Harris said. “A lot of the indoor races will help get us ready for running outdoor events.”

According to Harris, last Saturday's indoor meet at Virginia Tech served as a way for the team to get its feet wet. It was a preparation meet for all the teams that competed because no score was kept. Harris said it showed the team members that they can be competitive, and in the process, it made them realize the type of hard work that it will take to be successful.

Harris is very enthusiastic and optimistic about this year’s team, which is comprised of 30 men and eight women. “I am hoping that we do well in the Southern Conference meet, and I want to do well in home meets. I think we will do better this year, we need to show people that we can do well because we are a good team,” she said.

Although the recent bad weather has hindered team workouts, Harris's philosophy is to bring the team along slowly. “I like progressive things, they'll start out running a certain time but by outdoor there will be less work but more quality.”

Harris thinks the next two meets will be the most important for the team. She views the meet tomorrow at Lynchburg, Va., as “a good meet for the men. Some of the teams are better than we are but most of them are in our class. The guys are very optimistic about their chances.”

She laughs, she cries, she feels angry, she feels lonely, she feels guilty, she makes breakfast, she makes love, she makes do, she is strong, she is weak, she is brave, she is scared, she is...

Century-Fox Presents
PAUL MAZURSKY'S
AN UNMARRIED WOMAN
JILL CLAYBURGH
ALAN BATES
MICHAEL MURPHY
CLIFF GORMANslopes anyway: it must be the lower altitudes. Sights should be set on one of the big three, either Sugar Mountain, Ski Beech, or Hawks’ Nest—formerly called Seven Devils. These slopes, and other inferior imitations, are less than a leisurely two-to-three hour ramble away from Davidson. ETA’s, of course, vary depending on the condition and speed of the BMW or VW. The route offers sudden, though not quite breath-taking variations in scenery and climate. For day-trippers, I’d recommend a 7 a.m. take-off to ensure maximum snow-balling time for the money.

Local Booners and other ski-buffs seem to agree that Sugar and Beech offer the best of all skiing—lots of different runs for all levels of skiers from the first-time beginner to the supposed expert. They warn, however, that it’s best to ski these two places early in the week. After Thursday, there are more people to ski upon than packed powder surfaces, and profit-minded owners jack up the prices to wicked weekend rates.

Speaking of rates, Sugar and Beech ask steep prices for skiing their steep downhill runs. Lift tickets for the 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekday snow-cutter cost about $18. For the not-so-brave class-cutter intent on hollering his or her name at the 8 or 9 a.m. roll-call, Beech offers a 12:30 p.m. to 10 p.m. package deal for around $14. The best buy for students toting valid I.D. cards is to ski at Hawks’ Nest—$6 for a day or night ticket.

Spendthrifts who do not own or borrow ski equipment should consider renting skis, boots, and poles in down-the-mountain shops and not at the higher-priced rip-off counters of the resorts. Food can be another costly commodity while mountain-top hopping. A bag lunch or dinner helps with the cash flow. A tin of sardines or anchovies sometimes proves edible if you're hungry enough, but don’t expect to be the hit of the cafeteria with such low-budget fare.

Whether day-skiing or night-skiing, the great get-away is there for the taking. The ski-bunnies and suave ski-patrollers are there too, around the clock. There’s plenty of company and action for the beginner, novice, no-good few-timer, intermediate, and skilled. Fill up the flask, point the skis downhill, get in the Jean-Claude Killy tuck, and bust it down the mountain. And if you're worried about turning, especially to avoid other non-moving or speeding objects, don’t. You can either fall down and slide to a slippery stop or you can step out of the way. But be careful about performing the latter maneuver. Your feet are probably at least five meters long, and if you cross your skis, look out for the “face-plant” blues.

BUFFET —ALL YOU CAN EAT—
Mooresville’s First And Finest Italian Restaurant
KING Of PIZZA & SPAGHETTI
241 SOUTH BROAD STREET—MOORESVILLE ~ 663-3030

Sunday 12 Noon til 9:00 P.M.
Tues., Wed. & Thurs. 5 P.M. 'til 9 P.M.

100% Durham Wheat
OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE
FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD
PARMESAN—ROMANO CHEESE
SALAD BAR 45 Items
FRESH GREEN VEGETABLES
DELICIOUS FRUITS
FLAVORFUL MEATS
RICH DRESSINGS
TASTY CHEESES
WINE CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE

ALL FOR $4.89
Meal Includes: DESSERT-TEMPTING HAWAIIAN SALAD
SPECIAL RATES FOR CHILDREN UNDER 12—25¢ PER YEAR

Lunch Buffet—Mon.-Sat., 11 AM-2:30 PM $2.99

PIZZA
Still Mooresville’s Finest
SPICY PEPPERONI
CANADIAN BACON
ITALIAN SAUSAGE
GROUND BEEF
FRESH DICED GREEN PEPPERS
SWEET ONIONS

SOUP OF THE DAY
CREAM OF POTATO
VEGETABLE BEEF STOCK
CHICKEN NOODLE
CHILI CON CARNE

PER PERSON