Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Friday, September 27, 1985  
THE DAVIDSONIAN  

PE Grades To Appear On Student Records  
By NELLE McCORKLE  

For the first time, failing grades in Physical Education courses will appear on students' permanent records, according to Registrar Sue Ross. For the past two years, students have been required to complete the PE requirements before beginning the seventh term at Davidson, Ross said. Eighty members of the class of 1987 who had not completed the requirement at the end of spring term 1985 were required to participate in summer contract courses, camps, classes in their hometowns, and other approved activities before they were permitted to return to Davidson. 

"We felt ample notification had been given throughout the year," said PE Director Sterling Martin, referring to the letters his office had sent regularly to those students whose requirements were incomplete. Five of those eighty students did not complete their remaining requirements, and Ross said that although those students were planning to transfer or otherwise withdraw, none of them is eligible to return because of PE deficiencies. She said, "One of the five students wrote me that he was transferring, but he promised to swim every day during the summer! I wrote him back that he'd have to take a contract course," but never heard from the student in reply. 

Ross said students failing to fulfill PE requirements by the seventh term are subject to the Faculty Executive Committee's conditions for readmission. She said, "It would be helpful if freshman/sophomore faculty advisors would remind students each term of PE requirements." Of the over forty courses the PE department offers, Ross said, "They (the department) have worked diligently to provide varied activities to accommodate students' needs, and to promote the philosophy of a healthy body as part of the total healthy student." 

Ross said the Faculty Executive Committee and Student Government Association endorsed a PE department recommendation that failing grades be recorded permanently. The Faculty Executive Committee, an elected group of professors, voted to make this recommendation a regulation, effective this term. Under the new ruling, a student who does not complete a PE course for which he or she is registered will receive an "F" on his or her record. 

---

Campus Police Sport New Look, Image  
By ANDY BALL  

With the fall term now barely inching into its third week, most students are beginning to become readjusted to the sights and sounds of campus life. One difference is the new Davidson College Police Officers' uniforms. 

"They're the official Davidson Police uniforms instead of the blue, Campus Security ones we had last year," says Campus Police Chief Jackie Hughes, citing one of the ways the Department is changing its image. "We're just trying to get across the idea that we are Police officers - and not Security Guards." 

Chief Hughes has good reason to concern himself with image. He's been on the force here for the last thirteen years, seven of which were spent as Chief Director of Public Safety for the college, as well as assistant Chief of Police for the town of Davidson. 

"A security guard isn't required to have any kind of training," Hughes said. "All you need to do is pick any guy off the street and hire him. A police officer must go through a lot more specialization." 

Jackie Hughes should know. After serving in the army from 1948-72 and retiring as a Master Sergeant, he began qualifying for hisAssociate’s Degree in Law Enforcement at CPCC in Charlotte. In addition to the two years of classes he completed, he was also required to complete a minimum of 360 hours of police service and training. In 1972, Chief Hughes bought a house near the college, joined the Davidson Police Department, and in 1973, was assigned to the campus (precinct 2). He was rapidly promoted to Lieutenant and then to Captain in 1974. By 1978, he had become Chief Director of Public Safety and was working on requirements to receive his Advanced Law Enforcement Certificate. “It’s quite hard to get,” stated Hughes. “There are a lot of service and training hours involved, as well as a requirement of nine years of experience in the field.” Hughes completed the nine years and received his certification in 1981. Issued by the Justice Department and signed by the Attorney General, the certificate is not only wholly impressive but also, as Hughes put it, “really nice to have.”

But why the need to distinguish between security guard and police officer? “It’s mostly in cases where we have to deal with backup from the outside that it’s most important.” When working in conjunction with the ERS (emergency rescue service), the fire department, and the rest of the Davidson Police Department, instant recognition as a certified police officer is vital to communication between the involved agencies. “Before, it was sometimes hard to perform adequately,” Hughes admitted.

Along with the new look of the department, Hughes reports that it is also continuing to arrange meetings with freshmen Hall Counselors and Resident Advisors in order to develop better crime prevention techniques. “With only two officers on duty at a time, students need to be aware that they’ve got to watch out for themselves.”

Originally from Ohio, Hughes has lived with his wife in Davidson for fourteen years and has four children and five grandchildren.

DUKE THE FUQUA SCHOOL OF BUSINESS MBA

The Fuqua School of Business at Duke University offers one of the finest available opportunities for unsurpassed professional management training. We are interested in men and women who have proven academic, leadership, and social abilities.

Michael Hostetler
Director of Admissions

Thursday, appointment information may be obtained of the Fuqua School will be on campus October 3 by contacting:

Office of Career Services and Placement

University of South Carolina School of Law Representatives Will Interview Interested Students

Wednesday, October 2, 1985
From 2 p.m. until 5 p.m.
Contact the Office of Placement Services for an appointment

Shalom Christian Book Store

Now you know — we have 1500 different Christian titles in stock — But did you know we have film and film developing? Compare our prices:

Color Film Developing:
Contour Prints Glossy Prints
12 exp. $2.59 12 exp. $3.28
15 exp. (disc) 3.14 24 exp. 5.59
24 exp. 4.17 36 exp. 8.48
36 exp. 6.42

Our film prices are great too!
Hours: Tues. - Fri. 9:30-5:30; Sat. 9:30-5 p.m.