Opinions: Doomsdayers, Sunshiners Send False Message

Robert Maydole

Some people believe that nuclear war is inevitable. They are your doomsdayers. Others believe that a nuclear war will not occur. Let’s refer to them as “sunshiners.” Both are dangerously fatalistic. Doomsdayers scare us into believing that there is nothing that can be done to prevent nuclear war. Sunshiners lull us into believing that there is nothing we have to do to prevent it, because it won’t occur anyway. The doomsdayers spread false despair, while the sunshiners create false hope. Both generate apathy.

The logic of the doomsdayers and sunshiners is commonly flawed. They both reason fallaciously from what has been to what will be. Doomsdayers point out that weapons deployed have been weapons used; and from this, they infer that the deployment of nuclear weapons guarantees their use. Sunshiners believe that the absence of nuclear war to date ensures its absence forever. Neither the doomsdayers nor the sunshiners know what they are talking about. No one knows what the future has in store. What we can know, however, is that there is significant risk of nuclear war, and that this risk has been growing steadily in recent years.

Experts have predicted that by the year 2000, twenty or so nations will possess or be capable of possessing nuclear weapons.

The convocation speaker of last week, Dean Rusk, bathed us in sunshine. He assured us that nuclear war is not in the cards, and that the human race is “going to make it.” He said, “I do not see a single situation in the real world that is pointing toward nuclear war.” Rusk presented two arguments for his view. The first ran like this: We have had nuclear weapons for forty years now without having had a nuclear war; so we won’t have one in the future. Logic students will recognize this as a classic example of the post hoc fallacy.

Rusk’s second argument was more substantial, but equally flawed. He argued that we won’t have a nuclear war because everyone, including the Russians, knows just how horrible and catastrophic such a war would be. The usual name for this argument is MAD, mutual assured destruction, the strategy embraced by the administrations Rusk served as Secretary of State twenty years ago. There are two main problems with MAD, and Rusk dealt with neither in his speech.

First, MAD presupposes that rational agents always act in their rational self-interest, even when acting rationally. This is false on both the individual and national level. Rational agents sometimes make mistakes in judgment. Moreover, rational agents sometimes fall prey to weakness of will, and then fail to act rationally, even when they think rationally. Worse, we sometimes have reason to question the full rationality of our leaders.

The second problem with MAD and Rusk’s argument is that they ignore the recent developments in nuclear weapons technology. Nuclear weapons are now being built for the purpose of being able to fight so-called limited wars. Such words as “counterforce,” “damage limitation,” “escalation control,” and “flexible response” are commonplace in the vocabulary of strategists and certain military personnel. Few strategists today think of nuclear war as an all-or-nothing proposition, at least not in the beginning. Whether or not a limited nuclear war could remain limited (and even a limited nuclear war would be horrible) is something that requires careful scrutiny, however gruesome the task. Suffice it to say that there is a significant risk that a limited nuclear conflict would quickly escalate to a total nuclear holocaust. The upshot is, the risk of total nuclear war notwithstanding, weapons technology has made it possible to think of nuclear weapons as usable. MAD, therefore, is a relic of the past.

Aware, perhaps, that the logic of his position was shaky, Rusk tried one more tack to persuade his audience that nuclear war is impossible. He appealed to faith. But Rusk’s faith in our ability to avoid nuclear war was not of the religious sort; at least it didn’t appear that way. He made no appeal to scripture or revelation, and never did presume to maintain that God will prevent nuclear war from occurring. No, Rusk’s faith was of the secular sort, and indistinguishable as such from mere opinion.

That there is significant risk of nuclear war is evident for the following reasons. First, there are more than fifty thousand nuclear warheads in the world. Many of these warheads are already targeted and are poised to be fired in a moment’s notice. Once fired, they cannot be recalled. There is a risk, even if small, that one or a few of these warheads will be fired either intentionally or accidentally. And once fired, there is some risk, perhaps a bit larger, that additional warheads will be fired. There is even a small risk that most of the twenty or so thousand strategic warheads will be fired, escalation control measures notwithstanding.

Second, the vertical and horizontal proliferation of nuclear weapons makes the risk of nuclear war real. Experts have predicted that by the year 2000, twenty or so nations will possess or be capable of possessing nuclear weapons. Imagine the risk of catastrophe if non-superpower adversaries in the Middle East possessed nuclear weapons during a hot crisis!

Third, global tensions in the nuclear context make the risk real that nuclear weapons will be used to resolve the conflict. The U.S. used nuclear weapons on Japan, and has threatened to use them on Berlin, Korea, and Vietnam. Moreover, the U.S. maintains a policy of first use of tactical nuclear weapons.In other words, we will use nuclear weapons against Soviet conventional forces if we have to avoid defeat in a conventional war. Fourth, recent developments in nuclear technology, such as increased missile accuracy, miniaturization of warheads and missiles, and stealth technology have caused a tightening of the trip wire, and have occasioned nuclear powers to consider both launch on warning and “use ‘em or lose ’em” strategies. This has certainly caused a dramatic increase in the risk of nuclear war. Fifth, nuclear technology and weapons systems have become exceedingly complex, and there seems to be a direct relationship between technological complexity and the risk of system failure. The larger the computer program, the more likely it is that it will have bugs. Yet oddly enough, the increased complexity of nuclear weapons systems has resulted in an even greater dependency on computers. How soon will it be when the decision to use or not use nuclear weapons will be all but left to computers? Will a U.S. president or a Soviet premier really be knowledgeable enough to challenge the recommendation of the computers, especially in a situation where a decision must be made within a few minutes? The complexity of nuclear technology has increased the risk of nuclear war significantly. Sixth, human beings themselves are far from being infallible. Human miscalculation is always a possibility. Moreover, there is always a risk that a deranged leader, a Hitler type, will have his finger on the button. That risk in particular seems to be growing, especially in light of the T.V. demagoguery of our time. We can see then that there are many things in the real world that point in the direction of nuclear war. So we ought to be thankful to Dean Rusk for calling our attention to the nuclear predicament, even if he is overly sanguine about it. How then should we as citizens of the earth act in the face of the risk of nuclear war? Should we ignore the risk and embrace the fatalism of the doomsdayers and sunshiners? Or should we learn as much as we can about the nuclear predicament and then work to diminish and eliminate the risk of nuclear war? The Dean Rusk Program is surely predicated on an affirmative answer to the last question.

Maydole is an associate professor of philosophy.

Just Words
Tim Brown

Do you know? Have you heard? That President Reagan recently sent Senator Paul Laxalt to the Philippines, to express his strong warning to President Marcos that Mr. Marcos better get his --- a-moving towards establishing a democracy, or else. Or else what, Mr. Reagan? Or else we’ll leave you guys and give you over to the communist insurgents! Give you no more loans! . . . and give up Subic Bay Naval Base and Clark Air Base? It makes good sense, you see, to hand over the Philippines to communist insurgents, 3,000 of whose members demonstrated outside the U.S. embassy in Manila just a fortnight ago, with placards denouncing the United States, reminiscent of those we encountered in Iran, just a few years back. And it makes just as good sense to give up Subic Bay Naval Base and Clark Air Base — even if they would be phenomenally expensive to replace.

Democratic elections in the Philippines: not likely. As he does now, Mr. Marcos shall have his hands full. Full of problems such as a Philippine economy sapped by debt crisis, official corruption which weakens credibility, rioting growing more vehement, and communist insurgents. He let martial law stand for 10 years, had it lifted, and now uses broad “emergency” powers instead, every bit as constraining as martial law. Members of the opposition parties have been imprisoned, tortured, and killed — political opposition such as Benigno Aquino, killed in cold blood by the Philippine military as he walked across a tarmac after returning home from exile — all of this before the TV and world press. And communist insurgents — who, just a few years ago, had not enough partisans to fill a school bus — now have 25,000 members and control of 20 percent of the countryside. If the Philippines’ socioeconomic problems increase as they suspect, U.S. officials estimate the guerillas’ strength will also: to 25,000 members with a growth rate of 20 to 50 percent a year.

But what about President Marcos’ agreement with our Senator Laxalt, that democratic elections should be held in 1987? Come on now, man, do you really think Marcos will allow elections if he knows he will lose? Can we keep him from cheating if such an election were to be allowed? Can we keep him from threatening the voter? These questions suggest chances we might have to take. If the United States is gradually to separate from Marcos, and thereby cleanse its hands, it should invest its resources (such as its minds, which are not infallible) in moderate political opposition. Unlike the communist guerillas, the moderates are not eager to seek industrial and agricultural collectivism, an end to U.S. access to Philippine military bases, and support from outside revolutionaries. Such as? The Soviet Union and Vietnam. And an election date of 1987 would suit these moderates fine, giving them time to overcome their two greatest weaknesses: leadership deeply divided and lack of an “organized” national constituency.

Brown is a sophomore from Mint Hill, N.C. and is opinions editor of The Davidsonian.