THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXIV, Number 12
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, January 18, 1985

Incident Stirs Concern About Rapes On Campus
Many Rapes Are Not Reported; RAPE Seeks To Raise Awareness
By DAVID VAN PELT

Last week’s alleged rape drew attention to a growing concern among Davidson administration and campus groups about the frequency of such incidents on campus and the measures needed to prevent them.

“Many women refuse to believe it can happen at Davidson,” said Anne Miano, a member of the new Raised Awareness and Protection for Everyone (RAPE) Committee formed to counsel victims and educate the Davidson community about rape. “There is a feeling that if you recognize what is going on, you destroy what is uniquely Davidson,” Miano said.

Last week’s incident marks only the second rape on record at Davidson, she said, but many more go unreported. “We don’t have anything to point out to show people it’s been going on because it hasn't been reported,” she said. “It's very hard to shock people into reality when you can’t show records and say, ‘This is reality.’”

Despite the lack of recorded incidents, Miano said she feels that rape is not uncommon at Davidson. “I think if you took a poll asking people, ‘Have you ever known someone ever raped on campus?’ you would get an overwhelming yes, especially among women.” Miano noted that most rape cases at Davidson probably involve acquaintance rape, which accounts for approximately 70 percent of all rapes.

Dean of Students Sue Ross said most conversations with students concerning rape “go on in very general terms. Maybe someone knows someone who has been forced to have sex.” Ross said college-age persons are particularly vulnerable to confusion in sexual intentions.

(continued on page 4)

Town, County Police Take Evidence; Search For Suspect Continues
By ROSS HOLT

Town police and Mecklenburg County police are pressing the search for a man who allegedly raped a Davidson student in her Little dormitory room last Saturday. Town police chief Jack Warlick, whose officers became actively involved in the investigation this week, said police have several suspects in the case. But, he said, no arrests appear imminent, because police have not questioned all the suspects. Warlick confirmed the existence of physical evidence, which he said may lead to an arrest.

The victim, a 20-year-old sophomore, reported the alleged rape Saturday night. She told County police she awoke between 3:30 and 6 a.m. Saturday morning as a man she could not identify raped her. She described her attacker as a 5'9”...

‘No Hoopla, No Respect’
Editors’ note: Senior Dwayne D. Wright shares his thoughts on his four years as a football player at Davidson.
By DWAYNE D. WRIGHT

Davidson is unlike any other school that I have ever been associated with. Where I come from, athletics, especially football, are a source of pride for the colleges and high schools. Football players are respected. The people enjoy football. Of course, these people take their football seriously — sometimes too seriously — but in doing so, they make the game fun for both the players and themselves. Without the fans, the band, the cheerleaders, and all the other hoopla that surrounds a football game, the event is more akin to a war than sport. The fun comes in performing for a crowd, in hearing the cheers, in hearing the band play.

My experience with four years of Davidson football has been that playing football here just isn’t any fun. There is no hoopla and no respect. The hoopla and respect give a player extra incen-tive to perform well, and that extra mental boost is essential for a team like Davidson’s which lacks the size and talent of its opponents. The lack of hoopla, though, does not adequately explain the mediocrity of Davidson football. To be successful, Davidson will have to start recruiting bigger and better players. The only way to do this is to lower the admissions standards and/or to offer full scholarships. The former is not likely to happen — nor should it happen. The latter must happen if the team is to be competitive in a league (Southern Conference) in which the other schools offer full scholarships.

For many players, Davidson is a letdown compared to high school. Players come in with high expectations for a program that is in Division I-AA. After all, college football is supposed to be a step above high school. Here, there is disappointment with the facilities, the uniforms, and the lack of any material benefits (sweats, bags, shorts — the kinds of things that one can wear to let it be known that he is a football player). This disappointment hurts team morale, which contributes to team success. Early on, one gets the feeling that Davidson tolerates football, but does not support it. (continued on page 11)

white male of medium build with short hair, according to the county police report. Police also believe the suspect wore a blue baseball cap with the letter “B” in gold script on it, County Officer S. L. Price said. Price filed the initial police report, and is handling the investigation for the County. Price would neither confirm nor deny reports that the alleged rapist was a student. Dean of Students Will Terry said the College is “involved with and cooperating with the police.” Warlick and Price both urged students to contact police with any information about the case, especially regarding the baseball cap. Posters have appeared in campus dorms which carry a description of the cap and give two numbers for students to call County police. Some students have reported difficulty in reaching appropriate County of- (continued on page 4)

CCRL To Allow Court Social Houses
By DAVID McGEE

The Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) Monday voted 9-3 to allow campus groups which would not provide meals to operate houses on Patterson Court. However, the CCRL did not determine specific criteria such organizations must meet to run a Court house. At the meeting, the CCRL discussed the general principles the Court abides by, and it will consider the practical aspects of allowing social houses on the Court at a meeting next Monday.

Among the principles discussed by the CCRL, according to Patterson Court Council President Murray Simpson, were whether or not houses could stop serving meals and remain on the Court, and the priorities the CCRL would consider in allotting Court houses to interested groups. Presently, two Court houses are unoccupied. Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity has asked the CCRL if it could move on campus into one of the Court's unoccupied houses and not serve meals. Most SPE members eat at the Commons. SPE proposed returning to the Court after the Davidson Board of Adjustors last May denied the fraternity special use zoning of its house at 409 N. Main Street.

At a PCC meeting yesterday, issues associated with SPE’s proposal were discussed. Several members stated that SPE would gain an unfair rush advantage by (continued on page 4)