10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Brooke Knight, Executive Editor
Kim Crabtree, Managing Editor
Ann Roddey, Production Editor
John Gathings, Editor
Kevin Horan, Associate Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Richard Tankard, Photography Editor
Bill Bugg, Features Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager
David Maynard, Circulation Manager

Convocation

Yesterday’s Fall Convocation provided the Davidson community with an opportunity to express its gratitude to those who have made the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies possible. The program is designed to enhance the Davidson student’s awareness of world affairs. The Davidson community was fortunate to have the opportunity to hear Dean Rusk ’31 inaugurate the program himself in yesterday’s ceremony. Dean Rusk’s remarks, which received a standing ovation, were well spoken. What he said about East-West relationships was informative, yet his remarks about the nuclear arms race seemed somewhat overly optimistic.

Many members of the Davidson community have expressed fear of nuclear arms and a commitment to opposing this form of weaponry. This fear is well-founded. While nuclear arms have not been used in the past forty years in anger, we should not be lulled into a false sense of security nor should we abandon our determination to make sure that they are never used in the future. We realize that Dean Rusk’s remarks about the arms race were said in a positive context, one which told the seniors that they would, in essence, “make it.” We understand his view that future generations should not be overly worried but should act upon their convictions. These comments, however, can easily be misconstrued to infer unrealistic optimism.

The constantly changing condition of today’s world, rapid advancements in weapons technology and increasing tensions around the globe are ever-present reminders of the possibility of war in the near future. The Dean Rusk program will inform and enable us to make the kinds of decisions that will ensure our future, hence, like Dean Rusk, we must act on our beliefs, remain true to our commitments, and oppose policies that threaten our well-being.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Andy Ball, Laura Batten, Jim Dillon, Keith Finch, Andrea Gross, Heidi Hooker, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, David Williams

Features Staff: Laura Ballenger, Martha Johnson, Matt Morris

Sports Staff: Edwin Page, assistant sports editor; Mike Adams, Rand Hartsell

Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Beth Drummond, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, David Petranick, John Reuter, Sarah Smith

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Kim Nikles

Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Kristin Galloway, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen Keely, Kara Kooken, Kris Kost, Beth Parker, Kim Robertson, Margaret White, Ben Yarborough

Compositors: Doug Kim, Ann Roddey, David Soud, Sara Strachan, Laure Van Dierdorick

Friday, October 25, 1985

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Carnival

To the Editor:

Tomorrow is Ada Jenkins Day in Davidson. A sort of carnival will be held at the Davidson Community Center. Details of the events are announced on posters around town. This is a more important memorial day than most students and citizens may realize. Ada Jenkins was an active woman in the town of Davidson a number of years ago, working for improvement of the quality of life in the black community. When the old Chambers building on campus burned down in 1921, she obtained permission to salvage the bricks. It is with these bricks that the black school, now the Community Center, is built. When desegregation was enacted, this became a home for various activities. This is the only contribution of Ms. Jenkins that I have heard, but I am sure there are many more.To be discovered just by asking any long-time resident or by stopping by the Community Center tomorrow. One of the scheduled events is a presentation by the Davidson Girl Scout on community history. I encourage those who are interested to attend.

Linda Tatsapaugh

India

To the Editor:

The Term-in-India students felt that we needed to tell you more about the research and study taking place here at Madras Christian College, so here is an update of what is going on. The eighteen students here represent eleven different departments and their areas of study are equally diverse. Besides our classes in Tamil and our lectures on History, Religion, Art, Literature, and Contemporary Culture, we are each responsible for an independent study guided by a Madras Christian College or University of Madras professor.

The topics range from religious interests such as Jainism (John Odom), puja or devotional rites (Mark Gosnell), the Meenakshi temple of Madurai (William White), temple music (Steve Marik), non-baptized believers (Catherine Melton), Hindu festivals (Joty Harding), and mass religious conversion (Pamela Colquitt); to fine arts, especially Classical music and dance (Mark Swift, Yaffa Weaver), to architecture (Mike Braff, Rick Avery), Rama and Krishna mythology (Holly Parrish), yoga philosophy (Laura Kline), and current issues like Integrated Rural Development (Gordon Watkins), education (Tim Norville), the individual in society (Sherri Schwenke), leprosy (Binney Jannetta), and women’s concerns (Julie White).

We have visited several places that pertain to individual topics as well as the general group study. When we went to Bangalore a couple of people went to Sravana-Belgola, a Jain pilgrimage center. In Madurai several people spent time sitting in the Meenakshi temple and some surrounding village temples. Many people have taken side trips here at the college to such places as the hospital complex at Vellore, several villages in the Madras area, private family homes where they attended individual and public pujas, and we have all attended various musical and dance performances.

As we travel North in the next several weeks we will visit the Elephanta, Ajanta, and Ellora cave temples, the forts and palaces of Jaipur, Agra, and Fatehpur Sikri, and continue with our lectures and studies on the road.

Pamela Colquitt

AT&T

To the Editor:

Monday and Tuesday a symposium was held in the Chambers Gallery, yet most students were unaware that it took place. Three prestigious institutions, the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, the IBM Corporation, and Davidson College, sponsored the lecture series, “Telephones and Technology: The Breakup of AT&T.” The program’s stated purpose was to spark “the study of technology as part of the undergraduate program of traditional liberal arts majors.” Toward this end four knowledgeable and articulate speakers were secured, and a professional brochure was published.

Advance publicity for the symposium was insufficient and ineffective. As a result, it was poorly attended by students, faculty, and administration. Most of the students present attended at the request of an Economics professor. An additional problem surfaced when the Monday night session was locked out of the gallery for more than fifteen minutes.

The symposium was the last in a series focusing on the relationship between technology and the liberal arts. The importance of this topic to undergraduates is immense, for they are about to enter a world in which electronics, computers, telecommunications, and rapidly expanding technologies play increasingly important roles. It is regrettable that so few attended a symposium of such high quality.

Russell Bitter

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere to these four guidelines:

1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2) We require that letters be neatly typed.
3) We require that letters be signed and include the author's phone number and address. If you have a compelling reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.
4) We reserve the right not to print letters that:
   a) function as advertisements;
   b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes;
   c) represent a viewpoint similar to other letters printed on the very same topic.