Friday, September 20, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson — a weekly news summary
By JANE AURELL

Headlining the news for the week of September 11-18:

Internationally—
President Reagan, followed shortly by the EEC (excluding Great Britain), issued limited sanctions against South Africa. President Botha suggested a
possible end to the “pass laws” as well as an offer of renewed citizenship to blacks in the four “independent”
homelands. These efforts are part of a plan to dismantle apartheid. Bishop Tutu scoffed at the proposals. Meanwhile, South African
business leaders met in Zambia with members of the outlawed ANC. South African troops invaded Angola. A high-ranking Soviet double
agent defected to Great Britain and disclosed — to date — the names of 31 Soviet agents who were then
subsequently expelled by the Thatcher government. The Soviet government has retaliated with the expulsion of 31 Britons from the USSR.
China is making internal political changes in an effort to “rejuvenate” her aging Politburo and move toward modernization. Israel released
the last of the Shiite Muslim detainees demanded by the TWA hijackers last June. In West Germany, another top-level government
employee — a spy — defected to East Germany. The West German government announced plans to participate in research for
the U.S. “Star Wars” project. In what may be a massive government cover-up, two French agents are believed responsible for
the sinking of the Greenpeace ship in New Zealand last July. Reverend Weir, one of the seven American hostages being
held in Lebanon, has been released; there is no new word on the other six.

Domestically—
For the first time since 1914, the U.S. — with a national debt of 1.8 trillion dollars — has become
a debtor nation. Meanwhile, President Reagan (anti-protectionist) and Congress continue to battle over the issue of import quotas. Also on
the home front — The U.S. military announced the successful completion of a critical ASAT test. A satellite, in orbit
since 1978, intercepted the comet Giacobini-Zinner yielding new information about the composition of comets. Finally, Pete Rose broke Ty Cobb’s
career hitting record — 4192... Yea, Pete!

Thought for the Week:
“Great people are ordinary people in the service of a great idea.” — from Dr. Walter N. Kalaf

Davidson Attracts Many Transfer Students
By NELLE McCORKLE

Twelve transfer students enrolled at Davidson for the 1985-86 academic year give varied reasons for choosing the College. “I felt
it time to evolve into more than a number,” reports Mike Jarmon of Winston-Salem. Of his decision to enroll at
Davidson after two years at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Jarmon said the “perfect setting” influenced his
choice. Tae Kim, of Carrollton, Texas, selected Davidson for its “small size,” which he called “a welcomed change” from his
former college, the University of Texas at Austin. Davidson’s location was a factor in Kim’s decision, as it was in
Ranjit Rawlley’s of New Delhi, India, formerly of Knox College. Rawlley, an experienced hiker in his native Himalayas, cited Davidson’s
proximity to “good backpacking routes.” Geography also helped Jon Boles, of Tallahassee, Florida, decide on Davidson. Boles reported that he
left Auburn University because, “I always wanted to go North to school.” He, like Belton Myers of Charlotte, cited a
campus visit as the decisive factor. Maurya MacNeil, of Bethesda, Maryland, was looking for a “small, challenging, but fun school,”
when she left the University of Vermont. Of Davidson, MacNeil observed, “Everyone is really friendly. I feel like I’ve been
here so long. Adjusting wasn’t hard at all. I feel like I’m part of Davidson after only a week.”

Ten transfer students are sophomores, but two of these, Jarmon and Myers, lack only several courses to become juniors.years at
the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Myers commented on his desire to return to the small school atmosphere
of his school, the North Carolina School of Science and Mathematics. While Kim praised Davidson’s “outstanding liberal arts program,” Julie
Lehman of Atlanta, Georgia, and formerly of Rhodes College, admitted that the laundry service had been a factor in her
choice.

After a week of classes, Boles commented, “There are fantastic opportunities here.” Jarmon observed simply, “too much to do.”

The new transfer students:
First row: Belton Myers, Tae Kim, Maurya MacNeil, Julie Lehman & Mike Jarmon.
Second row: Jon Boles, Sarah Longley, Julie Walsh & Ranjit Rawlley.
Not pictured: Jenny Artman, Laura Ross & Valerie Shaffer.

Other transfer students are: Sarah Longley of Houston, Texas, from Baylor University; Julie Walsh of Essex, Connecticut, from Carnegie-Mellon University;
Jenny Artman of Scituate, Massachusetts, from Brandeis University; Laura Ross of Concord, North Carolina, from Salem College; and Valerie Shaffer
of Monroeville, Pennsylvania, from Alleghany College.

How To Be Safe At Davidson: Practical Steps To Take
Campus Security
By Ray Thrower

Davidson College is a community of 1,800 persons working, living, and studying on campus. As in virtually all communities, public
safety, crime, and the loss of property are daily concerns. The Davidson College Public Safety Office is responsible for the
safety and security of the college community. This task, however, is one we cannot accomplish alone. We need the help
of every student, faculty, and staff member. Security awareness is a self-serving quality. As a property owner, you have a
monetary interest to protect yourself from becoming a victim. We hope that you will be motivated to join us in
our effort to make Davidson College a safe and secure environment to learn, live, and work in.

The Public Safety Office needs for you to act as the eyes and ears of Davidson College in order to
assist us in our effort to deter crime. Over $11,000.00 of property was stolen last school year. The two main
reasons were:
1) Dormitory rooms were left open and unattended.
2) Dormitory room doors were closed but not locked.

Here are a few tips to decrease your chances of becoming a victim:
- Be alert to strangers wandering aimlessly around your dormitory halls and classrooms. A common ploy for such individuals bent
on criminal intent is to say that they are looking for someone. If you have any cause to doubt their
sincerity, call Public Safety at 892-5131.
- Never leave valuables such as wallets, purses, or jewelry lying out in your room. Place such articles in a
locked drawer or somewhere out of sight. If you leave your room, lock the door and windows. It takes only
about eight seconds for someone to walk into your room and remove your valuables.
- Do not carry large sums of money. Do not leave your checkbook, currency, or other valuable items lying around
campus unattended. Be particularly careful in places such as the 24-hour study room, Chambers, the gym, and other public areas.
- Record the serial numbers, brand names, and descriptions of personal property or valuables which are kept in your room.
Keep a duplicated copy of this information at your home. Be an active participant in our operation ID program. Engravers
are available at the Public Safety Office.
- If you are entrusted with a key to a specific room, storage, or lab area, make sure the door
is locked when you leave. Never prop open a door for someone who might be joining you later. You could
be inviting unknown persons into your area without your knowledge.
- If a larceny does occur, report it immediately. A delay of even one hour could result in the individual
not being apprehended.
- Be alert for suspicious characters and dangerous situations. At night, walk only on well-lit streets and pathways. Remember the
buddy system; always walk in pairs or groups. Be security conscious at all times and you will be less likely
to become a crime statistic. Always let someone know where you are going and how long you intend to be.
If you were not to return, they could be alerted to this and, if necessary, contact authorities. Public Safety will
be happy to provide an escort.
