Thursday, December 12, 1985

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Awareness weekend teaches ministry skills

By AARON LEVINE

Last weekend, approximately 25 Davidson students spent an “Awareness Weekend” working with Charlotte’s poor, homeless, and needy through several inner-city ministries. In its third year, the weekend provides an opportunity for students to learn about the Christian ministry to the poor. College Chaplain Charles Summers said: “At the beginning of the Christmas season, there are a lot of people who are not having their basic needs met. The students benefit from having a good sense that they are doing something worthwhile. Some of the students have never been to an inner city and this is their first exposure to the problems there.”

Junior Steve Baggarly, a participant in last year’s “Awareness Weekend,” said, “Any interaction with people different from ourselves is priceless because we need to appreciate differences and underlying similarities.” He added that one cannot actually love someone one does not know.

Senior Ellen Oerter, another participant in this year’s Awareness Weekend, emphasized the importance of the Habitat for Humanity program which aids the homeless. Student participants spent part of their time repairing houses. She said, “Habitat for Humanity has perceived that lack of home ownership has been a problem, and creates other problems.” One problem is a lack of control that the needy may feel when they are renting from a landlord who can easily evict them. Owning their own home would give these people a sense of control.

Senior Rick Boden said, “I went because I desire to minister to numerous needs of the poor and oppressed.” He added, “Jesus calls us to use our talents to serve others around us.”

Senior Karl Lorenz said he got to know those who went better than he knew them before. He said, “Christ commits us to this service.” He said that effecting change is often relegated to voting; instead, one should give of oneself.

Phonathon gets students involved

By MARGOT MIMS

This year’s SGA phonathon is a fundraiser involving over 20 hours of phone calling and over 300 students. The emphasis has changed this year, according to Living Endowment Director Gracia Slater and phonathon director Hunter Roddey ’85. They stressed the importance of increases in individual donations and of attracting new donors, rather than an increase in a total dollar goal.

“Of the $55,000 we have raised over the first four nights, $22,000 of that is new money,” Roddey said. “This may serve as a better indicator of how well we are doing.” An increase in total dollars raised is not expected this year. According to Gracia Slater it is not a serious concern. “The dollar amount is not as high this year because we are in better shape going into the phonathon,” she said. “Some people have increased what they’re giving, which is more exciting to us.”

Because some alumni now contact annual donors, there are fewer donors to be contacted by phone. “The pool is not as large this year, but returns are better because you are calling people who are less likely to have been contacted before,” Slater said.

Appealing to many is the fact that it is the Davidson student who is calling potential donors. SGA-appointed sophomore Dave Handy, and juniors Christi Hayes and Mark Sandy serve as the co-chairpersons of the 1985 phonathon. Sandy believed “the donors are much more responsive to the students than they would be with people not presently associated with the college.”

The student-run phonathon allows the alumni and parents to keep in touch with the activities going on at Davidson. Slater said, “Davidson students are our main asset and that’s why we are here.” The phonathon was established in the fall of 1980. David Waddill ’81 submitted a proposal for a phonathon to Lee Willingham, director of the Living Endowment at that time. Willingham, impressed by Waddill’s eagerness to raise funds for a new fieldhouse/gymnasium, agreed to incorporate the program.

Cameron Chalmers, a sophomore phonathon volunteer, reflected on her first few days: “It is a good way for students to not only do a social service for Davidson, but also to have fun.” The money raised in the phonathon is for the Living Endowment.

Officer realizes boyhood aspiration

By TREEBY WILLIAMSON

As a boy growing up in Davidson, Wayne King always wanted to be a policeman. With thirteen years as a policeman behind him already and six years before that as a prison guard, Davidson College Police Sergeant Wayne King has certainly realized his boyhood ambition.

In his career as a prison guard and police officer, King has experienced various life-threatening situations. While a guard with the North Carolina Prison Department, he was once assaulted by prisoners. Though his career as a policeman has not been quite so violent, it still poses risks. On one occasion a suspect pulled a gun on him. Nevertheless, King feels his efforts are rewarded when he apprehends a criminal.

As a Davidson College police officer, King seeks to gain students’ confidence by meeting and encouraging them to feel comfortable in contacting and making use of Davidson security if necessary. MostStudents, according to King, accept the presence of the campus police without causing trouble. King echoes the advice of many before him when he states the necessity for students to lock their doors and protect valuables. This, he feels, is the college's greatest security problem. Some students, says King, are simply not aware of the very real possibility of theft. However, the addition of a crime prevention officer has increased student awareness, in King's opinion. Officer King is married and lives in Mooresville. He has both a daughter and a granddaughter. In his spare time, King enjoys hunting and fishing.

McKelway discusses Christianity in South Africa
By ANDREA GROSS

Davidson religion professor Alexander McKelway returned Friday, Dec. 6, from a two-week trip to South Africa. McKelway was one of a nine-member group of political scientists and educators headed by William Jackson who made the journey. Jackson is a former Davidson faculty member who is now co-director of the Fulbright Institute for Foreign Affairs at the University of Arkansas.

McKelway was most struck during his visit by “police brutality and violence.” He describes the police as “out of control” and repeatedly encountered stories of the torturing of suspects and detainment for no justifiable reason. He mentioned that although the South Africa Foundation had hoped that his group would end their journey convinced that economic sanctions against the nation, such as disinvestment, are only detrimental to efforts to end apartheid, neither he nor most other members of his delegation are convinced that this is so. He also feels that the military power of “White South African Society” makes thought of any imminent black revolution impossible. However, he stressed the fact that while his trip left him with a “deeper, more vivid sense of the situation” in South Africa, he did not in any way become an expert in the area’s politics.

The South Africa Foundation, a group of progressive business people who oppose apartheid and urge rapid governmental reforms, including majority rule, sponsored the trip. McKelway described his trip as an “intensive series of seminars.” The theologian, along with the rest of the delegation, met with military, church, black township and government leaders, newspaper personnel, and business people including Mr. Relly, Chairman of the Anglo-American Company, the largest business enterprise in South Africa. The dialogues, which ranged over a variety of topics including Christology and the relevance of Christianity to blacks’ struggles, took place all over South Africa in cities such as Johannesburg and Cape Town and black townships such as Crossroads and Soweto, a community of four to six million blacks outside of Johannesburg. The group also visited Namibia and Angola.

McKelway had discussions with Nico Smith, a white Dutch Reformed theologian and minister to a parish in Mamelodi, a township outside of Pretoria where women and children were killed in fighting three weeks ago; John de Gruchy, an important theologian at the University of Cape Town; and James Andrews, stated Clerk (Chief Executive) of the Presbyterian Church in the United States of America. In his talks with Smith, McKelway learned more about the Dutch Reformed Church of the late '30s and '40s, who created the doctrine of apartheid. Smith described apartheid in the context of the Afrikaners who took over when the British left South Africa in 1948. At this time, apartheid was constitutional in order to advance Afrikaner political and economic power. With de Gruchy, McKelway discussed important political activity among students involved in protests at the University of Cape Town. The University, South Africa’s oldest, is to some extent integrated, admitting small numbers of blacks, coloreds, and Indians.

McKelway met with James Andrews in Harare, the capital of Zimbabwe, where an emergency meeting of the World Council of Churches was in session to discuss the South African situation. While in Harare, McKelway also sat in on the council's dialogue of Thursday, Dec. 5, and attended a communion service in the city’s Cathedral. Although the group may meet again in late January, they do not plan any more trips together to South Africa. McKelway plans to write some articles about the church and the theological side of his discussions. He will be speaking at Davidson about his trip sometime in early January.

John Reuter