Kuykendall plans for year ahead, p.4

The Davidsonian
Volume LXXV, Number 3
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, October 4, 1985

Davidson looks at itself
Self-study outlines ‘constructive changes’

By ANDREA DIEDRICH

The Davidson College Self-Study Report for the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools was released this Tuesday approximately two years after the process began. The Visiting Committee from the Southern Association will be in Davidson from Nov. 3 through Nov. 6 according to psychology Professor John Kelton, who is Chairman of the Steering Committee for the Self Study and Associate Dean of the Faculty.

The Visiting Committee, chaired by Denton Coker, Provost at Stetson University, will examine Davidson in terms of the Criteria for Accreditation (December 1983 edition) and decide whether or not to reaffirm Davidson’s initial accreditation of 1963-64. The Committee is expected to meet with selected faculty and staff, Kelton said.

A positive aspect of the self-study aside from reaffirmation of accreditation that Kelton emphasized is the benefits that can arise from “self-examination.” Kelton hopes the study will lead to constructive change at Davidson. He also pointed out that since every member of last year’s faculty participated in the self-study, most of the current faculty has had the opportunity to examine some aspect of the College in detail.

As Associate Dean of the Faculty, Kelton explained he is responsible for making sure the recommendations aren’t just dropped or ignored. “If the self-study is to be worth the effort, time and money, we must build on it and use it as a springboard,” he said.

Although the emphasis is on problems with Davidson, the Introduction to the Self-Study says, “The consensus of this report is that things are going well at Davidson College. People are doing a good job and the College is confident about its mission.”

The Introduction also explains that preparation for the self-study began in the late fall of 1983 when the Steering Committee was elected by the faculty. In the spring of 1984, committee chairs were chosen by the Steering Committee. Then every resident faculty member was assigned to a committee. Consideration was given to the committee preference indicated by faculty members in a poll conducted by the Steering Committee.

Each committee covered a different aspect of the College. Examples of those committees are History and Purpose, Undergraduate Program, Faculty, Athletics, and Institutional Research and Planning.

The Student Government Association also appointed a committee of students to survey a portion of the student body about three aspects of student life: services, activities and government/academic concerns. Those surveys were used by several of the self-study committees.

The Introduction also explains that each academic department conducted its own self-study. Kelton said these reports are integrated in the Self-Study as well as available for reference as separate entities. The final report represents the work of each committee after the Steering Committee reviewed and edited each individual report.The final chapter is a report written by the Steering Committee that tries to emphasize those aspects of the complete report that require the most attention. There are six priority recommendations in the Steering Committee’s report. One recommendation involves the adaptation of a mission statement to supplement the Statement of Purpose. The mission statement would express “the purposes of the institution in terms of contemporary issues and concerns” in contemporary language. Another priority recommendation is “that a task force representing the Trustees, faculty, administration, staff, students, and alumni be established to determine the best philosophy and policy for athletics at Davidson.” The Athletic Committee, chaired by English Professor Gil Holland, recommended “that the college seriously consider joining Division III of the NCAA and competing in that division in all sports, both male and female.”

Kelton said he does not know when, if ever, the Steering Committee’s priority recommendations will be acted upon, but he emphasized that there has already been a strong interest in the report expressed by groups including the Strategic Planning Task Force. He said the report has been distributed to the faculty, administration offices, Trustees, Visiting Committee, student government leaders, and student government offices.

Following are some examples of recommendations made by the committees. The Self-Study is 351 pages long, so these examples represent only a very small portion of the whole Self-Study. The Undergraduate Program Committee, chaired by psychology Professor Edward Palmer, recommended “that the College consider establishing a college-administered merit scholarship program open to all students without qualifications of ethnicity, sex or religion, with a view towards establishing equality with competing institutions in enrolling the exceptionally gifted student.” They also recommended “that the plus and minus grading option be added to all standard grade categories except F,” and “that up to the beginning of the tenth week, students who have performed above C level in a Pass-Fail course have the opportunity for letter-grade conversion upon request.”

The Library Committee, chaired by history Professor David Shi, suggested “that the library staff undertake a comprehensive user survey and cost analysis to determine the feasibility of opening the library on Saturday evenings and/or Sunday mornings.” The Computer and Instructional Support Committee, chaired by political science Professor Thomas Kazee, recommended “that the combined number of terminals and personal computers available to students be increased to approximate the faculty/student ratio.” The Student Committee, chaired by biology Professor David Grant, recommended “that locking systems be installed in all dormitories and that scheduled hours for closing be established.”

The other members of the Steering Committee are physics Professor Laurence Cain, economics Professor Peter Hess, religion Professor Max Polley, French Professor Lauren Yoder, and Assistant to the President Rick Love. English Professor Frank Bliss acted as final editor of the Self-Study.