10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor
Kevin Horan, Executive Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Brooke Knight, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor
Stephen Mank, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager
Amy Harrell, Circulation Manager

A Role Model

A trustee of Davidson College, Sam Ervin, Jr. represented the College to the rest of the world. His actions and attitudes were admired by many and reflected well on the College. However, he should also serve as a role model, not only to the College community, but to everyone.

Ervin was a remarkable man in many ways. His near obsession with the Constitution gave him a strong set of guiding principles, even in the face of outspoken opponents. Though his political views have often been strongly criticized, it is important that Ervin be recognized for his universally acceptable characteristics: his perseverance, honesty, and selflessness.

Ervin had built a solid career by the time he was chosen to conduct the Watergate hearings. He finished law school at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, was admitted to the bar, and went on to further his law education at Harvard. He worked his way up the court system, from county judge, to superior court judge, up to NC Supreme Court justice. He was not put off by hard work, but pushed on for more where most people would have been satisfied.

Ervin was also an honest man. He believed in frankly expressing his opinions on issues. In addition, he led a long political career with no hints of improprieties. This was a strong personal characteristic which made him an ideal choice for the Watergate committee. This kind of honesty and respectability is rare in a world of so much scandal. He was almost beyond reproach.

Throughout his life, Ervin demonstrated himself to be a selfless man. He made decisions based on his strong faith in the provisions of the Constitution, rather than on personal bias and a desire for popularity. He presented himself as a humble man, not pompous or egotistical about his achievements. He often called himself just “a country lawyer,” and respected the rights and needs of all people, rather than those of an elitist minority.

This attitude appropriately reflected his life. He had gained recognition, not through slick maneuvering, but through hard work and dedication. He felt a strong desire to emphasize the principles he respected and wrote several books, including his account of the Watergate trial. Even up to the time prior to his hospitalization, Ervin was working on a book documenting the history of the historic Burke County Courthouse.

The ideals that Ervin represented should serve as an example to everyone.

Friday, April 26, 1985

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOR THE BEST FIREWORKS DISPLAY

Letters

Thanks

To the Editors:

I would like to express my deep appreciation for The Davidsonian’s article and editorial about the North Carolina Fellows. The article reflected careful and thorough reporting. The editorial was equally considered. How wonderful it is to read an opinion which is positive! Thanks to The Davidsonian for taking time and making space to inform the campus about our efforts to revitalize our organization. From within the Fellows themselves, I anticipate an even greater incentive to improve. And I believe that we can count on increased understanding of our program from the whole campus. Three cheers for The Davidsonian.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone(704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Ted Wilson, Assistant News Editor; Richard Cloudt, Andrea Diedrich, Roxanna Guilford, Nelle McCorkle, Stephen Mank, Tom Schilling, Lee White, Allison Wills

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Bill Bugg, Craig Detweiler, Thurston Hatcher, Matt Morris, Samuel Scott, Treeby Williams, Allison Wills

Sports Staff: Patricia Hahn, Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley, Perry Mathewes, Edwin Page

Photography Staff: Christian Harberts, Assistant Photography Editor; Brad Brechtelsbauer, Jill Boyette, Phillip Dennis, Warriner Inge, Rocky Kmiecik, Bruce von Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Joanneke Brentjens, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Pauline Rhodes, David Soud

Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Anne Lambert, Lisa Lano, Martha Yeide, Frank Roberts, Sara Beasly

Freedom

To the Editors:

Yes, we at Davidson are fortunate to live in a country where the freedoms to express opinion and affect governmental policy exist. If nostalgic students here want to make believe that 1985 is 1965 by digging up the archaic die-in, they possess every right to do so. These same students, however, should realize that if they tried to hold a die-in in those countries in which America is now trying to aid the cause of freedom, those people would not need to pretend to be dead, for the governments of those countries would make sure they were dead. Yes, the members of the peace coalition should be happy that they live in a country where they have the right of free expression.

This brings to mind the fact that Peggy Pierotti, living in a free country, has the right of free expression. She has the right to take a stand on an issue, and in fact, I admire her for doing so. Taking stands on controversial issues takes a lot of courage. While most people are simply willing to lament in their discontentment or remain silent, Peggy is not afraid to speak her mind. Peggy, thank you for not being apathetic on issues that concern all Davidson students. If your opinions have caused one person to reflect on one issue, then your articles have not been useless.

James Lewis

Elections

To the Editors:

Now that elections are over and Davidson has settled into a comfortable Spring Term, the SGA is ready to begin. Our first major step to improving Student Government is an open forum to be held Monday, April 29 at 4 p.m. in the Gallery. This forum is designed to gather student input: concerns, criticism, suggestions, opinions, gripes—on any SGA-related subject: elections, SGA weekend, Phonathon, security. We look forward to seeing you on Monday and hearing your ideas.

Beadsie Woo

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere to these four guidelines:

1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2) We require that letters be neatly typed.
3) We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.
4) We reserve the right not to print letters that:
   a) function as advertisements;
   b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes;
   c) represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed on the same topic.