The Davidsonian
Volume LXXIV, Number 16
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, March 22, 1985

Photographer Holdt displays “American Pictures” and his beard to a crowd of Davidson students

Watson Recipients Pursue International Projects
By DAVID VAN PELT

At least two Davidson seniors do not have to worry about their plans for next year. Seniors Beth Maczka and Ginna McGee will pursue international study projects next year as recipients of 1985 Watson Scholarships. The $10,000 fellowship grants which were announced this week will allow Maczka to study women’s concerns in India and McGee to photograph Catholic pilgrimages in Europe and Central America.

Maczka, a Center major, became interested in the role of women in Indian culture during a trip to India last summer. She said she was shocked by the repressed position of women in Indian culture, caused in part by the dowry system of marriage. She noted the common practice of “bride-burning” in which the husband murders his wife, typifies the repressed position of women in Indian culture according to Maczka. Nevertheless, Maczka contends that a women’s movement is originating in India, and she will study three communities that she said exhibit an enlightened attitude toward women in Indian society. One group which fascinated Maczka during her trip to India last summer was the Catholic Samaritan Sisters, who serve the poor and infirm in rural and urban areas.

By LEE WHITE

Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity will return to Patterson Court under the terms of a decision reached by College President John Kuykendall. According to a letter to fraternity President Scott Purdy, SPE may occupy a house on Patterson Court as a social house, at first. Kuykendall granted SPE a one-year variance regarding the requirement that the house serve meals. Another one-year variance could then be requested, subject to review by the Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) and the Patterson Court Council. The house would have to begin serving meals by fall term, 1987. Former SPE President Steve MacMillan said the fraternity members’ reaction to the decision was positive. MacMillan said the fraternity was eager to become “more involved with the college community.” He said more involvement was the reason SPE wanted to move back on campus.

Security Issues Affect Dorms
By TED WILSON

Dorm row will have a new look next fall as the College will locate more women on the central part of campus. In addition, if the College perfects the lock system currently on Knox, other dorms may have similar devices next year, according to Housing Director Bill Bolding. Dorm changes include reserving the basement, as well as the first, second, and third floors of Belk, for freshman men. Second Little has been reserved for men and fourth Little for the overflow of freshmen. Third and fourth Sentelle and first and second West Duke are designated for women, while first East Knox and second Knox have been saved for men. Bolding said one reason for changing the dorm composition was security, as the change will “get more women on this [central] part of the campus.”

In addition to composition changes, dorms may have lock systems by next fall. Bolding said, “We're still working the bugs out of the [Knox] system.” He added, “We're trying to perfect it to the way we want it” before committing to an expansion of the system. Bolding said he hopes the system will be perfected by the summer. He added that “the more [labor] we do ourselves,” the more the cost of the lock system can be defrayed. The Knox system cost approximately $2,200 for three doors.

More housing changes may be in store in the future. As the administration works toward housing 90 percent of Davidson students on campus, Bolding said, “The College may eventually build some new, varied housing” that may include student apartments. This winter, because of zoning laws, Henderson and Derby houses filed for and received a variance for zoning, according to Mayor Russell Knox. The Board of Adjustors granted the College a one-year extension on the use of the houses which, according to Bolding, are “non-conforming uses with zoning laws.” Bolding said residence halls are not permitted in single-family zoning districts. Until now, “the College has been given time to work it [the zoning problem] out.” Bolding said. Mayor Knox said after this year the College could reapply for another variance of zoning for Henderson and Derby.Houses but that it “is a mutual desire of the College and town” to house potential residents of these houses on campus by the 1986-87 school year, rather than find another off-campus site. MacMillan feels that the other houses on the Court support the move. He added that he felt SPE would continue to grow and be strong. Next fall, the 89 members of the fraternity will move into the house formerly occupied by ETC. During spring term, they will be cleaning up the house, which is presently used for storage. They hope to host social events during spring term to help the house become a part of Patterson Court. SPE’s return to campus resulted from much deliberation by the CCRL and by Kuykendall. The CCRL voted last term to allow campus groups not providing meals to operate Patterson Court houses. However, no specific criteria governing such houses were set. Results of the CCRL votes on the issue were then presented to Kuykendall. According to Assistant to the President Rick Love, Kuykendall felt the best use of Patterson Court areas. The Samaritan Sisters operate missions throughout India, and Maczka plans to examine the way in which the Catholic sisters interact with their community. Maczka will also spend time with a Hindu women’s spiritual community, which offers 30 sisters and eight brothers the opportunity for a contemplative, self-sufficient life dedicated to spiritual advancement. “One of the main things these sisters believe in is the relationship between science and spirituality,” she said. 

A third community with a very different spiritual basis is a women’s center with a very different spiritual basis, the Arthik Samata Mandal atheist community in southeast India. This community, run by a group of men, operates a ten-month training program that educates Indian women to assume an active role in society. “It’s a very spiritually oriented group though they deny any religious orientation,” Maczka said. Ginna McGee's fascination with religious pilgrimages began when she stumbled upon a Catholic pilgrimage while bicycling through Ireland last summer. McGee, a political science major, studied art history and English at Oxford during the summer, and decided to combine her love of photography with her new interest in pilgrimages in a Watson proposal.

Kuykendall Gives Final OK To SPE Move On Campus

The provision under which SPE will come back on campus was intended to give members as much latitude as possible, particularly those members who had joined the fraternity without committing to dining. Sophomore CCRL member Bobby Houck said he was pleased with Kuykendall’s decisions. He said the CCRL’s concern was that the fraternity should provide eating operations, and that the decision reached was a flexible one. MacMillan said he was pleased with the way Kuykendall and the CCRL handled the proposal. Pi Kappa Alpha President Charles Jenkins said members of his fraternity welcomed SPE back on campus, and would welcome any off-campus fraternity that returned to Patterson Court. However, he added, “We would like to see them come back on equal standing.” He said he understood there was no financial reason that SPE could not begin serving meals next fall. McGee said she chose to study primarily pilgrimages in the Iberian Peninsula and Central America because they are Catholic rites as are those she witnessed in Ireland. She said she will begin her photographic exploration in Central America in the fall. She will visit numerous pilgrimage sites in Mexico and Guatemala, with special emphasis on Central American Catholic rites which worship a black-skinned Christ. In Spain, McGee will concentrate on pilgrimage sites such as Santiago de Compostela, an important shrine for over a thousand years. Though McGee said she will spend considerable time in Spain to make use of her study of Spanish, she will also photograph pilgrimage sites in Portugal and southern France. She plans to explore religious pilgrimages “until my money runs out, or for a year, whichever comes first.” McGee said English professor Gill Holland, philosophy professor Lance Stell, and several faculty members at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, which she attended last year, aided her in her proposal. McGee and Maczka applied for the Fellowship in October. The application process included two interviews with Davidson faculty members, two written proposals, and a final interview with a national representative from the Watson Foundation.