8
Who's On First?

Friday, September 20, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Test Your S.Q. In The Davidsonian’s Sports Quiz

Andy Barron

For your reading entertainment, I have included a short sports quiz. I made the quiz rather rapidly so no one is expected to get all the answers, since many don’t make sense. Nevertheless, here they are.

1) Who is Nick Lowery?

2) What does Bill Elliot have to do with cigarette prices?

3) Who is the Braves general manager?

4) What do Wayne Gretzky and Jackie Gleason have in common?

5) What sports figure has a “foul” appetite?

6) What tennis player’s sub-par play can be attributed to “Bad News?”

7) What are the Braves paying for Bruce Sutter’s services?

8) What do Essendon, Carleton, and Fitzroy do on television?

9) Who will pass “Bear” Bryant this season as college football’s all-time winningest coach?

10) How much did Eric Dickerson pay in fines for holding out of camp this season?

Before I give the answers to the quiz, I must give this summer’s Davidsonian Sports Editor Awards. No summer is complete without recognizing the many exemplary achievements and antics in the world of sports. As always, the categories change from term to term.

Baseball Player Most Deserving of a Lifetime Contract: Dwight Gooden, baseball’s best player at age 20. Honorable Mention: Don Mattingly.

Most Stunning Prediction For 1985-86 NFL Season: Sports Illustrated saying Kansas City will edge the Los Angeles Raiders out of the play-offs.

Too Good To Be True Award: See Most Stunning Prediction Award.

Take My Ball And Go Home Award: The St. Louis Cardinals’ Joaquin Andujar for not playing in the All-Star Game. The National League didn’t seem to need him, though, as they embarrassed the American Leaguers yet again.

If I Could Do It All Over Again: Though there are many worthy candidates, the Atlanta Braves win for letting Donnie Moore go so as to buy Bruce Sutter. Moore is the main reason the California Angels are still in the pennant race while the cost for Sutter is, well, the answer to quiz question seven. Honorable Mention: The Braves for trading Bret Butler for Len Barker.

Base Running Expertise: Dale Berra of the New York Yankees wins this hands down for following Bobby Meachem to home plate against the White Sox. This allowed catcher Carlton Fisk to tag both Meachem and Berra out at home.

Most Archaic Equipment: Jimmy Connors, who still plays with a T-2000 racquet despite the fact they are no longer made.

Now, here are the answers you’ve either been waiting for or have skipped directly over to see after reading the questions.

1) The place kicker for the Kansas City Chiefs. A tougher question would be since when did Lowery kick 58-yard field goals as he did against the Raiders last Thursday.

2) Since the Winston Company gave Mr. Elliot a $1 million bonus for, of all things, winning a few NASCAR races, cigarette prices just might go up. Neat, eh?

3) With the deals the Braves have been cutting lately, I’d say no one. If anyone knows of a different answer, let me know.

4) Amazingly enough, both are known as “The Great One.” I propose slapshots at 50 paces to see who gets to keep the nickname.

5) Boston Red Sox third baseman Wade Boggs, who eats chicken every day. It must be some time because Boggs has baseball’s best batting average at .368.

6) Tatum O’Neill’s sweetheart and the world’s number one tennis player John McEnroe. According to the mother of a nameless Davidson student, McEnroe has looked too tired to play recently. That's the breaks!

7) I'd say about 15 games.

8) Any ESPN viewer knows that they all play Australian Rules Football.

9) Grambling’s Eddie Robinson is three wins away from passing Bryant’s total of 323 career victories. Just to point out how astronomical this total is, only 4 ten coaches have ever won 200 games.

10) Dickerson paid $47,000 for reporting 47 days late to camp. That works out to about, oh, $1000 a day.

How did you do? If you got all ten right, you did better than the answers, which only got eight right. By getting all the questions right, you outdid the columnist, a dubious honor at best.

Part-Time Waiters And Waitresses Wanted

Good Tips!

Experience preferred but not required

See Bob Johnson

We've Started Delivery!

Open 7 Days A Week
Call 892-8686