Thursday, December 12, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN : 19

Soviet-type propaganda permeates U.S. as well
Nate Spell

In the November 8 issue of The Davidsonian, Bruce Sarkisian had a few “Comments on [the] American-Soviet Summit.” He sought
to remind us that despite Mr. Gorbachev’s positive personal image, the Soviet leader is disseminating propaganda designed to bias public
opinion toward the U.S.S.R. and to portray our president as a “merciless war-monger.” Absolutely! We have grown to expect from
the Soviets’ distortion of “facts” and attempts to divert scrutiny from their own questionable actions in the world and at
home. It is common practice in the game of negotiating maneuvers that each side tries to bolster its position and
its influence prior to a meeting so that any agreements will not call for more sacrifice than a side wishes
to make. Mr. Sarkisian should not be so naive, however, as to believe that the United States does not do
exactly the same thing. What is the name “Star Wars,” but an advertisement for a glorious new-fangled, high-flying, sci-fying, whiz-bang
gizmo that will save all mankind and will make nuclear arms obsolete? When donkeys fly! Strategic Defense Initiative? This is
another name for the Star Wars project which veils the destabilizing influence it has on arms negotiations. The U.S. calls
attention to civil and human rights abuses within the Soviet Union with great fervor on the eve of negotiations, as
well as Soviet involvement in the Third World. These are calculated moves on our part. The Western Europeans are not
fooled by the propaganda and winning personalities of either superpower leader. Let us be as nuclear war.

London School of Economics and Political Science
A chance to study and live in London
Junior-year programs, One-Year Master's Degrees and Opportunities in the Social Sciences. The wide range of subjects includes Postgraduate Diplomas. Research

It is true, as Mr. Sarkisian claims, that the Soviets are trying to divert attention from their wrongful involvement and
deplorable activities in countries where they have no legitimate concern. He describes the citizens of these countries as “victims of
Marxist-Leninist ideology, which in itself is bad enough, but when imposed against one’s will, it becomes all the more tyrannical.”
Agreed. Let us here, as in the case of propaganda, also be cognizant of U.S. actions. If I may presume
to speak on behalf of many citizens of countries which currently are in the throes of guerrilla warfare, I suggest
that they do not care from which ideology the unrest originates. People in El Salvador, Nicaragua, Afghanistan, Cambodia, and elsewhere
want peace, security, and a government which will provide a stable environment for them to go on with the process
of their work and lives. In any country, if the U.S. or U.S.S.R. backs a tyrannical government or revolutionary group
which causes undesired unrest and loss to the people, then it is wrong. We might say that the Soviets are
more strongly involved in such activities, but this is not a matter for the bargaining table in Geneva. Besides not
having a clean position from which to argue this issue, the matter of superpower involvement in other countries, while related
to international security, is dwarfed by the realityof nuclear arms and the potential peril they represent. Currently, the world may
not be on the brink of nuclear war, but existing levels of nuclear weapons pose much more of a threat
to world survival than the largely political matter of where and to what extent the superpowers are meddling where they
are not wanted. “Star Wars,” on the other hand, directly affects the future of the arms race and thus the
risk of perception. To look further at the “Star Wars” project, it is naive to claim, as Mr. Sarkisian does,
that “the only reason the Soviets want to see ‘Star Wars’ scrapped is that they don’t have the technology to
build it.” Surprise! Neither do we! Mr. Reagan chose to consider the S.D.I. against the advice of most of the
available scientific experts. There was a large body of opinion by those who would best know that such a space-based
antiballistic missile system is technologically not feasible. Instead, Mr. Reagan chose to believe the words of a few who thought
that we can build such a device in the future. Even if it is feasible, the system will take years
of costly research to develop. By the best estimates, such a system will never be able to stop all incoming
missiles. If only a small percentage of the U.S.S.R.’s missiles penetrate our defenses (I have heard the S.D.I. might stop
95 percent of incoming ICBMs), the U.S. will be virtually destroyed. Also, “Star Wars” will do nothing to stop intermediate-range
and submarine-launched missiles. It cannot protect our allies in Europe. Don't you know the West Germans just love that? The
real reason the U.S.S.R. wants “Star Wars” scrapped is that it will provoke an escalation of the nuclear arms race
into space. They are not technologically ready to make that jump, and no sensible person on earth should desire such
an occurrence. Though I could continue with other points to Mr. Sarkisian’s argument, I will stop here. I am sure
Mr. Sarkisian was trying to do us all a favor and alert us to the sneakiness of the “crafty Soviet
propagandists” in his article. His was a noble purpose, but we must avoid throwing stones when our house is made
of glass.

Spell is a senior chemistry major from Lexington, S.C.

CARS FOR RENT
U-Save Auto Rental

Accounting and Finance
@ Actuarial Science
@ Anthropology
@ Business Studies
@ Economics
@ Econometrics
@ Economic History
@ European Studies
@ Geography
@ Government
@ Industrial Relations
@ International History
@ International Relations
@ Law
@ Management Science
@ Operational Research
@ Personnel Management
@ Philosophy
@ Population Studies
@ Politics
@ Regional and Urban Planning Studies
@ Sea-Use Policy
@ Social Administration
@ Social Planning in Developing Countries
@ Social Work
@ Sociology
@ Social Psychology
@ Statistical and Mathematical Sciences
@ Systems Analysis

FOUR-DOORS AND TWO DOORS $16 A DAY
FIRST 50 MILES FREE
INSURANCE OPTIONAL
TRUCKS FOR ONLY $20 A DAY!
664-2703 Night and Day Service

Application forms from:
Admissions Registrar, L.S.E., Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, England, stating whether undergraduate or postgraduate and quoting Room 10.

SEE: Dean Barnette or Sonny Stutts
Port City Motor Co.
First Union National Bank
P.O. Box 39
Davidson Cornelius Mooresville, N.C.
Huntersville
