Sports Preview
Friday, September 13, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cross Country Team Runs Toward Nationals
By ANDY BARRON

To most Davidson students, the town of Kenosha, Wisconsin has little or no significance. But to the men’s and women’s
cross country teams, Kenosha represents the ultimate goal: the NAIA National Championship for cross country.

“We want to get the whole team qualified for nationals this year,” said men’s captain senior Frank Hague. “Last year
several individuals qualified. This year we want everyone there.”

The men have a strong nucleus of upperclassmen and a talented bunch of freshmen with which to reach Kenosha. In
addition to Hague, Rob Watkins and Taylor Simpson, both seniors, and juniors Greg Foreman and Emil Cekada should all have
great years. Hague and Foreman went to Nationals last year and intend to return. All of the above returned in
good shape and are ready to run. A large number of freshmen have shown up for practices and several should
make important contributions to the team.

“I think four or five of the freshmen should help us,” Hague commented. “If we can keep a lot of
people interested in running cross country, we may form a junior varsity squad to enable more people to run in
meets.”

“We are very happy so many freshmen, both men and women, have shown interest in the team,” coach Sterling Martin
said. “Our task now is to keep those people interested. We need patience to allow the freshmen to develop.”

The women’s team should once again have a strong year. Unlike previous years when Martin handled both the men’s and
women’s teams, this season the women will be guided by Sarah Patterson, who graduated last spring after a fine cross
country career at Davidson. Senior captain Judy Dalton will provide additional leadership for what will be a young, but talented
team.

“We have good people running with us this year,” Patterson said. “We don’t have the experience that the men have,
but everyone is working hard and we should be fine.”

Dalton will be aided by a strong contingent of sophomores. Kappa Peddy, Laura Fannin, Debbie Niles, Sarah Longley, and Morrow
Reaves all have a valuable year of experience to aid them this season. Peddy and Fannin joined Dalton in the
women’s trip to Kenosha last year. Longley transferred to Davidson this year after spending last year at Baylor and is
expected to be a big help.

“Starting a week later than usual has hurt us somewhat,” Dalton said. “An extra week would allow us to be
in better shape and better prepared for our first meet.”

Davidson will run all its meets away from home this season. This will make team selection more difficult since fewer
people will have a chance to run in meets.

“Team selection is difficult when we can’t give people several chances to show what they can do,” Martin said. “We
hope to take a lot of people to our first meet and have some sort of a time trial.”

“I think away meets bring out the best in people,” Patterson said. “It keeps people hungry when they know they
have to perform to keep their spot on the varsity.”

The varsity spots go up for grabs this Saturday at Winston-Salem as Davidson opens both the men’s and women’s seasons
against Duke, Wake Forest, and DePaul.

New Faces And Youth Dominate Field Hockey Team
By EDWIN PAGE

If you watched a lot of Davidson field hockey last year, you may be in for a bit of a
surprise at the September 20 home opener because even the most dedicated of fans will probably have to keep a
roster handy to figure out exactly who all of these people are in Davidson uniforms.

Only six of last year’s players return for this year’s edition of Wildcat field hockey and many of these familiar
faces will be in new positions. Although the team is a young one, on the whole it boasts more experience
than last year’s 3-15 squad. That team had a very experienced defense, but was hampered by a very young offensive
unit. This year the situation has changed drastically. With the exception of outstanding junior sweeper co-captain Heather McKee, the defense
lacks experience. Junior Pam Harmon shifts from forward to occupy the center halfback position and junior Nana Lay trades in
her skirt for the goalie gear. Freshmen and new faces comprise the rest of the defense. Despite this youth, coach
Patty Daley expects good play from the group. “They have the potential to be very solid, but it may take
a few games for them to develop.” Lay has played well at her new position and Daley feels the defense
is improving constantly.

Up front the Cats have what should be a much improved attack. Newcomer sophomore Susan Roarke will hold down the
left link (halfback) while Janet Bitter, and the team’s other captain Suzy Klineman will split their time between forward and
right link. Freshman Margot Mims will also help hold down the right link. Bitter and Klineman will anchor the attack
and new faces Margy Oliver and Katy White will add much-needed speed and depth to the front line.

Coach Daley called this “the best preseason I’ve ever been through. The team’s conditioning and skills have improved rapidly. They
are putting more into it than ever before.” Early in the preseason,The Cats saw their only action thus far in
a scrimmage with the Fighting Croutons of Pfeiffer. In the first half, the young defense was riddled for 5 goals
but steadied and allowed only two more. The Cats will be underdogs for much of the year, but it’s a
role Daley likes. With the greater intensity exhibited by this squad and the continuing improvement she expects during the season,
she feels Davidson may well surprise some people. If the defense solidifies quickly and the team can avoid the injuries
that decimated last year’s squad, these underdogs just might turn vicious. Klineman is optimistic about the team. “The new players
have a lot of talent. It’s only a matter of learning to play as a team.” The Cats open their
season today at the University of the South. Their first appearance at home is against the aforementioned Thousand Islanders of
Pfeiffer.

The Variables And Constants Of Davidson Sports
By ANDY BARRON

If you are wondering why The Davidsonian published only a sports section this week, ask Charlie Slagle. He had the
foresight (and the schedules) to let me know that Davidson sports would begin well before school started and suggested a
special all-sports Davidsonian. I said I would and here it is.

The strange thing about this particular fall at Davidson with regard to sports is that so many things are changing.
Davidson graduates of as recently as two years ago wouldn't recognize the old place. The athletic department has undergone a
substantial overhaul in the past year in the areas of personnel, facilities, and, most importantly, conference.

Probably the most important change of the last year has been the resignations of Ed Farrell from first his position
as athletic director and then as head football coach. Kit Morris became the new athletic director last January. One of
Morris’ first tasks was to find a new football coach. Vic Gatto eventually filled the last gap left by Farrell's
departure. In the short time that they have been at Davidson, both Morris and Gatto have made their presence felt.
Morris has been one of the prime movers in Davidson’s decision to join the new Colonial League for football starting
in the fall of 1987. This move means Davidson will have to leave the Southern Conference in all varsity sports.
This is a rather drastic move since Davidson has been in the Southern Conference for about 50 years. Yet Morris
feels strongly about finding a conference where strong academic standards are the rule rather than the exception.

Gatto has only coached one football game at Davidson, but if one game ever made a difference to a school,
Gatto’s debut did just that. The apathy and pessimism that surrounded the football team’s last two seasons seemed to have
disappeared last Saturday. Instead, hope and excitement made a long-looked-for appearance at Richardson Field. Gatto would be the first to
say that one game, especially a loss, doesn’t make a season. Nevertheless, Davidson football finally seems ready to find the
light at the end of what has been a long, dark tunnel, if not this year, then soon.

Two new facilities will make their debut this year. Tomorrow the soccer team plays on their new field for the
first time. The men’s and women’s tennis teams also have a beautiful new indoor tennis building in which to sharpen
their skills during the winter. The athletic department and the board of trustees continue to discuss a possible new gym
for the basketball team, but even if a new auditorium is given final approval, it will be several years before
the basketball teams leave cozy Johnston Gym.

Despite the many upheavals and seemingly constant change, Davidson sports fans will not feel a complete sense of alienation. In
addition to varsity football, soccer, men’s and women’s cross country, and women’s field hockey, fall term means that hallowed Davidson
tradition, flickerball. Long the cause of great confusion to freshmen and the pride of the few who grasp the sport’s
many intricacies, flickerball is still Davidson’s lone fall intramural sport. I’ve always wondered why there wasn’t a second IMAC sport
in the fall. I guess flickerball stands alone to force freshmen halls to band together and to give the upperclassmen
a surefire way to display their superiority. Good luck freshmen and remember, if you don’t win this year, next year
YOU can beat some poor freshmen hall.

There is still a wide variety of club sports. Students interested in rugby, football, soccer, volleyball, and water skiing should
seek the appropriate club and start playing. Though the varsity and administrative levels of Davidson athletics are going through a
major transition, some things will probably never change. There is certainly plenty of sports to keep the avid sports fan
and participant content. By the way, if you thought this sports extra was helpful in any way, be sure to
tell Coach Slagle what a great idea he had.
