Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Forty more cars than spaces, page 3

The Davidsonian
Volume LXXV, Number 4
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, October 11, 1985

Police close party to prevent damages
By DAVID WILLIAMS

What began as an “excellent” semi-formal in the Chambers Gallery last Saturday night had, by early Sunday morning, turned into
a small nightmare for the women of Rusk House. Campus Police Officer Ray Thrower, hired by Rusk House to patrol
the party, said that at about 1:05 a.m. he “noticed that the crowd was getting a little rowdy.” He said:
“There was quite a bit of alcohol consumed; much was on the floor.” Thrower called Sergeant Wayne King to the
scene and during this time “a fight broke out. Officer King and I considered it a real fight. We asked
[the two men involved in the fight] to quit. They would not. We pulled them apart.”

For five minutes King and Thrower analyzed the situation and decided to close the party. “The main reason we closed
it down was that we feared that someone would get hurt,” Thrower said. He added: “Two or three tables were
torn up. If we could keep anything else from getting damaged, we would.” Paintings by Art Professor Herb Jackson, some
of which had been valued at over $17,000, were also hanging in the gallery during the party, and police feared
that the paintings could be damaged.

Members of Rusk House were then mystified when, according to Rusk Social Chairman Fran Houck, Officer Thrower “turned on the
lights and told everyone to leave. He asked the band to leave. He told me that [President] Kuykendall was on
his way” to the gallery. “We thought it was unnecessary to wake him up,” Houck said.

Thrower defended his action of bringing Kuykendall to the scene. “I felt like the members of Rusk House did an
excellent job as far as overall security and protecting the paintings,” he said. “But standard operating procedure when something like
this happens is to notify the Dean’s Office. We could not get a hold of Dean Terry or the two
other deans. At the last point, we called President Kuykendall.” Another reason that Thrower and King called Kuykendall, Thrower said,
was that: “We couldn’t get the students to leave. We needed someone to help clear them out.” Thrower added that
he and King spent nearly twenty minutes clearing students from the building. Approximately five persons were present in the Gallery
when Kuykendall came to the scene. “When he arrived, there was nothing but a sticky floor,” Houck said.

The main reason we closed it down was that we feared someone would get hurt.

While Kuykendall was looking at the condition of the gallery, someone reported to Thrower and King that King’s Cushman Police
Scooter, which was parked directly in front of Chambers, had been turned on its side. It was first reported that
several thousand dollars damage had been done to the Cushman. However, Campus Police indicated later that damage was estimated at
around $50. Rusk House has offered to assume responsibility for the costs of repairing the Cushman. However, Rusk is asking
that those who are responsible for damaging the Cushman turn themselves in to the police. Rusk President Lisa McNeilly

---said: “I have no intention of second-guessing the police. I appreciate their efforts to keep the party under control. [Closing
down] the party was what they judged to be necessary.”

McNeilly stated that she wrote a letter on behalf of Rusk House to President Kuykendall, which apologized to the president
for being awakened because of the incident. “The letter was on his desk by 8:30 Monday morning.”

McNeilly also expressed that Jackson’s paintings were being carefully guarded during the party. “We hired students to watch the paintings
for 1-hour and 1-1/2 hour shifts. Also, we kept tables between the paintings and the crowd.”

McNeilly emphasized that Rusk had been looking for a place off campus to hold the semi-formal, which could not be
held inside the Rusk House because of the size of the expected attendance. “Dean Terry suggested that we have it
off campus, and we talked over his suggestion.”

Other alternatives for the location of the party were Vail Commons, Johnston Gym, and the Tennis Center. “Perhaps if we
had had it in the Commons, this [incident] wouldn’t have happened,” McNeilly said. According to McNeilly, however, the Commons requires
organizations having parties at the Commons to attend and pay for a 7:30 p.m. seated dinner, “and our social budget
could not afford it.”

Dean of Students Will Terry issued the following statement concerning the incident on Tuesday: “There are people on the campus
who are always looking for reasons to condemn student behavior, particularly their social life, and who wish to make more
of such an occasion as the Rusk party than it deserves. I regret, if for no other reason than that
it is grist for that mill, that the party degenerated at the end of the evening.

“I am sorry the President had to be called since I was out of town and could not be reached.
Security believed the mood of the party was changing, and that led them to believe that an administrative presence was
desirable. I will not second-guess them because I have great confidence in Officers Thrower and King and believe they acted
in the best interests of the students in closing down the party and calling the President. It is always a
severe disappointment when certain Davidson students do not conform to their usual good judgment and reasonable standard of behavior.

“My impression is there was not enough effort made to control the serving of alcohol and that is a serious
omission that led to the deterioration of what had been a fun party. Students must accept more responsibility in this
area. We cannot tolerate situations where the safety of individuals and property can be threatened because of lack of control.

“I would like very much to have the names of those students who were rude to security, those who were
fighting and those who refused to follow the request of Messrs. Thrower and King. It should be clear that the
gallery will not be used for any but the most sedate affairs in the future, and evidently the Rusk formal
is not a sedate affair.”

Freshman Beth Drummond is surprised by a roving reporter.

INSIDE:
Page 4
their impressions of Davidson and America.
Page 5
