Opinions The Davidsonian Friday, November 8, 1985

Students should reevaluate alcohol attitudes
Tom Jennings

To drink, or not to drink? This question faces students daily at Davidson and other colleges and universities across the country. The overwhelming majority of students choose to drink — at least to drink occasionally. The Davidson campus community is part of a society which includes alcohol as an integral part of social events, celebrations, romantic occasions, and sports events (almost any event).

Recently, in the Student Housing Office, a survey of Davidson College students was conducted in order to determine the drinking behaviors of our learned populace. Students who came by the Housing Office to pick up U.P.S. packages, fill out work requests, ask questions, or just visit were asked to complete an eleven-item questionnaire. Although this method did not yield a technically random sample, we were non-discriminating of those students who completed the survey, and our sample population closely resembles the general population of Davidson students by class and gender.

The results of the survey are interesting but not surprising. Men drink more frequently and in greater quantities than women. Freshmen and sophomores attend more alcohol-oriented parties than juniors and seniors. More than one-fourth of the Davidson students have had a “black-out” experience, where for a period of time, they cannot remember things they did while drinking. Eighteen percent of the men surveyed said that in the past year they had attended work or school while intoxicated, and forty-five percent of the men said that during the past year they drove a motor vehicle while intoxicated. Over sixty-five percent of those people surveyed said that they knew at least one friend or acquaintance at Davidson who had a drinking problem. Twenty-seven percent of those students questioned said that they drink five or more beers/drinks when they drink alcohol. Over fifty percent of our respondents said they drink alcohol at least once a week.

O.K. — so we all know college students drink; what’s the big fuss? What do all the statistics mean? My primary purpose for compiling these figures was to determine how much alcohol is being used and how much it is being abused. Davidson students responded with a wide variety of drinking patterns. We have students who do not drink (twelve percent), students who drink moderately (two cans of beer per day or less — thirty percent), and students who drink abusively (more than five cans of beer in one evening — twenty-seven percent). The remaining thirty-one percent are somewhere between the moderates and the abusers, and they could fall into either category depending on who is making the categories. Most college students would probably say that three-four drinks a night, a couple of times a week, is moderate. Alcohol educators or counselors may contend that this borders on abusive drinking.

That men drink greater quantities of alcohol in an evening than do women is not unusual; men are, in general, larger physically and may require greater quantities of the drug to reach the same level of effect. Why is it that men drink more frequently than women? Do men have to drink to feel like they fit in, to cope with academic and social pressures, to compete with other men, to impress others, to give themselves excuses to do things that they would not usually do while sober, to relax...?

Sixty-six percent of the male respondents drink at least once a week while only twenty-six percent of the women reported drinking that often. Eleven percent of the men said that they drink every day, while none of the women drink that frequently. Another concern for Davidson students is the issue of drinking and driving. Forty-five percent of the men and twelve percent of the women said they had driven while intoxicated this year. This suggests that over 375 Davidson men were guilty of this offense this year. And about the men who have gone to work or school intoxicated at least once this year — those eighteen percent — almost one in five students — do you think you have a drinking problem? Only one woman said that she had shown up for school or work while intoxicated.

Blackout? One in four students had blackouts this year. These periods of memory lapse are a sign of a serious drinking problem. Women reported fifteen percent fewer cases of blackouts than men. Once again the women show lower levels of abuse. Our survey suggests that twenty percent of Davidson’s students know five or more of their peers at Davidson who they think have drinking problems. It is doubtful that they are all thinking of the same five people. Thirty-four percent of our students know at least three Davidson peers who have drinking problems.

The survey assessed behaviors. It did not attempt to find reasons for these behaviors. You are free to make your own conclusions about the causes and effects of drinking on this campus; however, I will offer some thoughts on these statistics. I am not advocating prohibition; in fact, I do not even support raising the drinking age.

Just Words
Tim Brown

If Dr. Bliss hears his office phone ring, say at 4:30, if he hears that certain faint knocking on his door, he knows it is no one other than Tim Brown, seeking his advice, knowledge, and what have you, in regard to writing. His advice to me last Tuesday: Tim, you ought to write on something nonpolitical and more personal. OK! Here it is.

“I’m sorry, Mr. and Mrs. Waldrep. Your son is paralyzed from a broken neck, and he may not survive”: these were the doctor’s words that October 26, 1974.I do support responsible drinking and educating students about responsible drinking. A significant minority of students on this campus are drinking without thinking. By not thinking about why they choose the drug alcohol and by not thinking about the short-term and long-term psychological and physical effects on themselves, students begin lifestyle habits without making conscious decisions about what alcohol use means to them. If you drink without thinking, then you are letting the media, social pressures, physical factors, and emotional factors control you, instead of exerting control over yourself—that is a tragedy. Responsible drinking means understanding that whenever you drink alcohol, you set an example for others. It means knowing your limit for alcohol and stopping before you reach it. It means understanding the difference between alcoholism (a disease, treatable by medical means) and alcohol abuse (a social problem, best addressed through education and example). It means understanding that alcohol is not a solution to life's problems, nor will it help you be more successful, smarter, or sexier. Responsible drinking means being honest with yourself about your drinking behaviors, the reasons why you drink, the payoffs you get from drinking, and the positive and negative effects that alcohol has on other areas of your life. It means consciously deciding whether to drink or not to drink each time you are presented with that option.

Alcohol abuse is a problem here. The amount and frequency of consumption represented in your surveys backs this assertion. Alcohol-related vandalism on Patterson Court and in the residence halls costs you many thousands of dollars every year. Alcohol-related trash problems and minor damages take many hours of staff time to correct; if these problems occur on weekends, parents and visitors leave with a bad impression of Davidson and its students. This reflects directly on everyone associated with the college, including you and me. Those who tolerate or ignore the problem are almost as guilty as those who create it. Alcohol abuse (and the tolerance of abusers) and all of its after-effects breed mediocrity in your college experience. It is a minority of our students who abuse alcohol, but it is a majority of our community who support or tolerate the abuse. I suggest that we re-evaluate our current attitudes and behaviors with regard to alcohol consumption at Davidson. With the new legislation raising the legal drinking age to 21 years (effective September 1, 1986), perhaps there is no time better than this year. A task force on Alcohol Education made up of students, faculty, and Student Affairs staff has been brought together to discuss these issues. This group could also provide educational programming opportunities for students to address the issues of responsible drinking, the effects of alcohol, and the social environment here, in order to provide a base of information upon which students can build healthy attitudes and responsible behavior concerning alcohol.

Alcohol abuse is a social problem with many contributing causes. Alcohol education is the best approach to take for long-term attitudinal changes, and now is an excellent time to begin educating ourselves about alcohol. So before you load your “Silver Bullets” and “Head for the Mountains,” to decide whether it “Tastes Great” or it’s “Less filling,” take a moment to decide whether we should tolerate the alcohol abusers a little longer, continuing to pay for the damages, clean-up, and car accidents, or whether we should make our lifestyle out of the classroom more congruent with our academic excellence. The choice is yours. I solicit thoughtful responses about the survey results, my assertions, alcohol use on campus, and the social climate at Davidson.

Jennings is the Director of Student Housing.

Astroturf diminishes pleasure in athletics

Kent, a former college football player, is now paralyzed and blames a collision with Astroturf for his injury. Meanwhile, the players’ association claims injuries rose 20 percent in 1984 and because of the “fuzzy concrete” injuries were more severe. Less serious injuries frequent other athletes—‘turf toe,” burns, and bruises caused by the abrasive surface. Thereby the athletes express their feelings. And what are mine? Well... I sort of miss the old grass—and the things I associated with it. The mud and dirt, slop and goo. Shoes kicking up sod. Players crusty, caked, and triumphant. For me, Astroturf reduces the glory of, the romance for, the athletic image. And... Don’t you feel the same way? Do you miss the baseballs not bouncing off the field at the speed of light? Do you miss the five yards gained in a cloud of dust? And the Houston Oiler chewing his chaw? The Oilers were told here recently there would be no more chewing. Because it was too difficult for the maintenance crew to search the whole field for tobacco spittle, to scrub it upon finding it, with a brush and soap. When I played, or attempted to play, ball—I focused on nature. Damn—if I could catch. Instead, this Southern boy strove to differentiate milkweed from kudzu, dandelion from, say oh, your average weed. Damn—if I could throw. But a kiss I would throw, along with a dandelion, to my sweetheart—or at least she was my darling until she saw me play. Damn—if I could hit. But I never once failed to go through the rigmarole—of grabbing a handful of dirt, spitting on it, and putting it on my bat. Otherwise, how else can a man grip it properly?—this I would respond to both my parents, after they'd suggest I concentrate more on the ball and less on my emulation of George Foster. Yes, I even had down his elbow’s quirk, and if I were to play today it would only be second nature.