Friday, October 11, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson
By JANE AURELL

Internationally——
Terrorism continues to plague the Middle East. In retaliation for Israel’s attack last week, a PLO faction hijacked the Italian cruise ship Achille Lauro and threatened to blow her up unless Israel released 50 prisoners. The ordeal ended peacefully after 44 hours, but of the twelve Americans on board, one is dead. In Lebanon, the fate of American hostage William Buckley is still unconfirmed. Buckley was reportedly executed on Monday in response to Israel’s bomb attack in Tunisia. The United Nations condemned Israel for the attack; the U.S. abstained.

As arms talks resumed in Geneva this week, the Soviet Union offered a new proposal calling for a 50 percent reduction of American and Soviet nuclear arsenals and a halt to the U.S. Strategic Defense Initiative (“Star Wars”). While recognizing that the Soviet proposal has some promising elements, the Reagan Administration denounced the major tenets as unequal and unverifiable; the Administration refuses to scrap the “Star Wars” program stating that evidence indicates the Soviets have been developing an SDI of their own. Meanwhile, in an effort to garner NATO support for his proposal, Gorbachev made a four-day visit to France to discuss the possibility of a separate arms agreement between the two countries; French President Mitterrand rejected the offer.

In South Africa, President Botha resisted pressure from within his own party to repeal the Group Areas Act, the cornerstone of apartheid which segregates business districts, neighborhoods, and schools. However, some relaxation is evident, as white movie theatres in some areas will be allowed to admit blacks and more beaches in Cape Town and Durban are to be integrated. In the U.S., Secretary of State Shultz said that Botha could expedite an ease to the racial tension by releasing Nelson Mandela and agreeing to negotiate with him and the outlawed African National Congress. Also in the U.S., this year’s Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights Award went to three South African anti-apartheid leaders: Winnie Mandela, the Rev. C.F. Beyers Naude, and the Rev. Allan Boesak.

Elsewhere in the world—
Torrential rains have caused massive flooding and mudslides in Puerto Rico; 66 people have lost their lives and hundreds are missing. In El Salvador, President Duarte is reportedly meeting the demands of the kidnappers who are still holding his daughter. In a meeting in Seoul, South Korea between representatives of the U.S., Japan, West Germany, France, and Britain, the U.S. urged the creation of a $5 billion lending pool to help third world countries; the money would come from the IMF and the World Bank. The U.S. announced Monday that it will no longer recognize the authority of the World Court except in mutually-submitted, non-political cases involving commercial, legal, or border disputes with other countries.

Domestically—
Hostages, arms talks, Supreme Court.... Monday marked the beginning of the Supreme Court’s 17th fall term; abortion, school prayer, affirmative action, and the rights of severely handicapped infants are among the controversial issues on the agenda. In a secret military mission, the space shuttle Atlantis launched two jam-proof communication satellites that will facilitate communication with U.S. military forces around the world. A former CIA employee is being sought for passing intelligence information to the Soviets, and another suspect is being watched. Twenty-five years ago this week, former President John F. Kennedy called for the formation of the Peace Corps.

In new appointments: Admiral William James Crowe will succeed Army General John Vessey as head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; James Miller will succeed David Stockman as Director of the Office of Management and Budget; Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige will head a task force on trade to root out unfair trade methods abroad and formulate retaliatory measures.

In the sports arena—
The Globetrotters took on their first woman team member. And pitching his 300th victory on the last day of the 1985 baseball season, Phil Niekro became the oldest player to pitch a major league shutout.

Thought for the week—
“Nothing great was ever achieved without enthusiasm.” —Ralph Waldo Emerson

Scarcity of spaces frustrates student drivers
By DAVID WILLIAMS

Recent security measures to reduce illegal parking on campus have prompted students to complain that the current Davidson parking lot situation is not up to par with student needs.

“I have received up to $40 in tickets for parking on the grass [near Irwin Dormitory],” junior Dennis Nutter said. “I have had to park there because I cannot find any other place to park.”

Junior Gary Branch echoed these sentiments: “Sunday night, I came back to campus and looked for a space and could not find one, so I parked in the laundry lot. At 1 a.m. I remembered that I had my car in the laundry lot and would receive a ticket if I left it there, so I drove the car around looking for a space. I could not find a space on Patterson Court, in the Belk parking lot, or in the lot by the R.O.T.C. [rappelling] tower. So I gave up looking for a spot and parked on the grass by Sentelle. The next morning I received a $10 ticket. I was a little upset about it.”

Is there a real parking problem at Davidson? Campus Security Chief Jackie Hughes investigated the Davidson parking situation and filed a report with Director of Facilities Planning Grover Meetze. Hughes’ report indicates that at present 586 students have registered their cars for the 1985-86 year. The campus contains 711 parking spaces, 224 of which are reserved for faculty and staff. Thus, 487 campus spaces have been designated as student parking. However, Hughes added that “these figures do not include parking spaces for visitors or special events.”ing for perimeter houses.” If perimeter parking figures are added in, the total comes to roughly 546 student parking spaces in and around the campus. Thus, the campus would need at least 40 more student parking spaces to equal the number of cars presently registered. According to Hughes, at least fifty more student cars will be registered before the end of the school year.

“For the students, there’s a parking problem only on the principle that everyone is going to have to walk,” Chief Hughes said. “Students want to park close to their dorms. But the trustees want a ‘walking’ campus.” Meetze commented that he has received no complaints about parking from students this year. The parking situation, said Meetze, is basically the same as it was last year, when “there was essentially no problem. Maybe the (current) problem lies in where students want to park. However, I am not opposed to continuing to study the problem.”

“Right now we should be close to having enough spaces for students,” Hughes said. “But very few students park in the Fine Arts lot [on Main Street next to the Copeland Gallery]. Until the students use the lots and fill them up, I don’t see us building any more parking lots.”

The Fine Arts parking lot, however, has had several security problems in the past. Two years ago, a 1969 Chevelle belonging to Senior Russ West was stolen off the lot. “The car was locked,” said West. “About 10:00 at night, someone broke into the car, hotwired it, and drove it away. The police waited until the morning to report it, and by that time [the thief] could have been all the way to Texas. I have never gotten the car back.” It has also been reported that at least one other incident has occurred in that lot.

Meetze said that as of right now, no plans are being made for the construction of additional parking space. He added that any future addition would occur as an extension of the new lot next to the rappelling tower. “We have worked to take parking from the interior of the campus to the perimeter, and that is where we are going,” he said. “I’m not anti-parking, but I want to make sure that we have the best environment for the students. I want us to be second to none as far as that goes.”

“Parking has been a perennial problem on this campus,” Dean of Students Will Terry said. “I can never remember a time when somebody didn’t complain about parking.” “However,” he added, “students used not to bring as many cars to campus as they do today. Families were not as affluent and there weren’t as many cars around.”

Approximately twenty years ago, freshmen were not allowed to have cars on campus, and this policy helped to alleviate the parking problem somewhat. However, “a federal anti-discrimination law changed this rule,” Hughes said. “Students could no longer be discriminated against on the basis of age.”

Until five years ago, a parking lot of approximately 100 spaces lay behind Duke and Sentelle dormitories. However, for “beautification” purposes, this lot was bulldozed and removed, and a new student lot was built to the northwest of Patterson Court.

At present, several ideas besides the construction of a new lot have been suggested for alleviating the parking problem. First, it has been suggested that parking privileges could be reserved exclusively for upperclassmen. “Though my interest is unrelated to parking,” stated English Professor John Engell, “I’m in favor of not allowing freshmen to have cars on campus. At a large number of schools, freshmen are not allowed cars. One reason is because during your college years, you should have the opportunity to be concerned with things not necessarily directly related to the hurly-burly of our society. You should be isolated from some of the constraints that wasting your time [such as maintaining a car] put on you.” However, Dean Terry said, “We’re certainly not going to ban cars from freshmen if I can help it.”

Second, students could be charged for parking permits. “We’re the only college in North Carolina that does not charge for parking permits,” Hughes said. UNCC charges an initial fee of $32 for parking permits, while UNC-Chapel Hill charges $78.

Third, a certain grade point average could be required for a student to maintain a car on campus. Students who did not meet a minimum G.P.A. requirement would be refused parking privileges until their G.P.A. was raised sufficiently. Dean Terry commented that this requirement would be “treating students as children.”

Fourth, security could be increased in the Fine Arts lot, which is classified by campus security as legal student parking. “Students need to feel that wherever they park, they can feel secure parking there,” Dean Terry said. Dean Terry added, “We have to be more realistic that there needs to be some flexibility for students parking for lunch or supper on [Patterson] Court.” However, Hughes objected to allowing students to park on Patterson Court, calling it a “danger because the street is not wide enough.” Hughes said that when the SAE’s started a fire at Knox Dorm last year, the fire trucks could not move in to put it out because students had illegally parked on the Court. “If the fire had been any more hazardous, this really could have caused a big problem.”

Current parking regulations state that “during nighttime and weekend hours, any person may legally park in any designated parking area. Vehicles parked illegally may be ticketed any time.” Ticket charges range from a $5 fine for non-registration of vehicle, $10 fine for illegal and improper parking, to a $25 fine for improper parking in a handicapped area or for driving across a brick sidewalk. Regulations state that “appeals for unjust tickets may be made to the Public Safety Office and must be made within three weeks of alleged violations.”