6 Winter election candidates—Davidsonian

Editors

Nelle McCorkle

The Davidsonian editor cannot and should not work alone. While the editor takes final responsibility for all that appears in the newspaper, she or he works as a group with a strong staff. If elected, I hope to build on that creative, energetic, competent staff. As a news co-editor, I’ve learned the principles of selecting, assigning, writing, and editing articles. By assigning articles to staff writers in alternate weeks, the newspaper can increase the pool of writers, avoid overburdening staff members, and provide a broader, more representative view of campus life. The Davidsonian should cover campus news thoughtfully and carefully, remembering that we are also part of a larger community. Toward this end, increased emphasis on town news and continuation of a column of world news seems appropriate. Incisive analysis of major campus issues concerning athletics, student government, social life, the liberal arts program, faculty, and administration marks a good student newspaper, but so does a learning spirit as writers improve individually and collectively. Expansion of the existing features section through contests, reviews, columns, and an annotated calendar could generate increased reader involvement. Davidsonians are proud of their school and should be equally proud of their newspaper.

Brooke Knight and Andy Barron

The office of editor of The Davidsonian demands a tremendous amount of dedication, time, and effort. Only those who have worked all through the night to make sure The Davidsonian reaches the publisher in time to have the paper back to the readers by Friday night realize just how much work goes into a given issue. In running for co-editors of The Davidsonian, we, Brooke Knight and Andy Barron, realize all the responsibilities and obligations attached to the office and feel we have not only the experience necessary to fulfill the office of editor but the determination to make The Davidsonian a paper that Davidson will be proud to call its own.

Brooke Knight has served every office on the production side of a newspaper. In high school, he held the position of editor-in-chief of one of the nation’s leading high school newspapers. Knight joined The Davidsonian his freshman year and worked on the production staff. Last spring, he became Managing Editor, an office second only to the chief editors’. In the fall, he became the Executive Editor, an office that has given him experience in every phase of the production of The Davidsonian.

Andy Barron joined The Davidsonian his freshman year as a member of the sports staff. He soon became assistant sports editor, an office he held for one year before becoming sports editor in the spring of 1985. In addition to the many responsibilities of being a section editor (organizing a staff, assigning articles, and editing copy), he has also written numerous articles and editorials.

Freshman Advisors

Ann Roddey and Brett Flinchum

We are both hall counselors who have been actively involved in the freshman experience this school year. Believe it or not, we are interested in involving ourselves again. After serving as hall counselors as well as participating in other campus extracurriculars, we feel that we have the experience necessary for the job of freshman advisors. Having been treasurer of a fraternity, a member of the self-selection committee, and a production editor of The Davidsonian has made us well aware of freshman issues and concerns. We are excited about using these experiences to aid in our roles as freshman advisors.

As leaders of the hall counselor program, we are particularly interested in the fair and prompt selection of hall counselors. We perceive our job as calling for active participation in and organization of the Orientation process. Our chief goal is the successful initiation and integration of freshmen into Davidson life. Further, we are concerned with the ambiguities of the self-selection process and we plan to work closely with the Patterson Court Council and the Self-Selection Committee to address the problems as they relate to the freshmen. The change in North Carolina law raising the legal drinking age to twenty-one poses a problem for all students, especially freshmen. Working with the administration and those concerned, we hope to best represent the freshmen point of view. We feel that our job is not only to advise freshmen. We plan to continue the bi-weekly meetings of hall counselors and deans of students, hoping to provide an active support system for next year’s hall counselors. We are excited about the possibility of working with freshmen and hall counselors again next year. Please remember us when you vote on Tuesday, Dec. 17.

Tyler Long and Leslie Hamilton

Tyler and I are qualified for the position of freshman advisor primarily because of our enthusiasm. This position requires investments of time and energy and needs to be filled by individuals who will work tirelessly throughout hall counselor selection and training as well as in the ensuing year. With creativity and charisma, freshman advisors must greet freshmen and parents during orientation, encouraging both groups to embrace a positive attitude during this initial encounter with Davidson College. We also want to stress the importance of open-mindedness in freshman advisors. Counselors who are required to work with a diverse group of individuals must put aside prejudices and pre-conceived notions in order to meet students on their own territory. As they help to select competent hall counselors and serve as a resource for this group throughout the year, the freshman advisors must maintain an open mind. We dedicate ourselves to...this goal, realizing that this unprejudiced approach will allow us to realize the full potential of the position of freshmen advisor. Tyler and I believe that our combined past experience as hall counselors, as church and community workers, as well as our participation on Patterson Court, IMAC teams, and study abroad programs, make us well qualified for the position of freshmen advisors. Our diverse experiences, coupled with creativity and enthusiasm, will serve to make next year a successful one for incoming freshmen. Please cast your vote for Tyler Long and Leslie Hamilton for freshman advisors.

Laura Batten and Sean Miller

Dear Laura,

Remember earlier in the year when we discussed running for the positions of Freshman Advisors? Well, the time has come to start campaigning if you are still interested. I think we should print posters that say, “VOTE FOR LAURA BATTEN AND SEAN MILLER FOR FRESHMAN ADVISORS.” Pretty neat, eh? Since we're both hall counselors, we can be sensitive to the needs of next year’s hall counselors and freshmen — don’t forget we were freshmen once, too! The fact that we are good friends and are open with each other and with other people qualifies us to be “awesome” Freshman Advisors. I think we can help the hall counselors-to-be to have as rewarding an experience as we’ve had so far. Write back with your ideas,

Sean

Dear Sean,

Everything sounds great except your campaign slogan — we might need to work on that a little. By the way, why are we writing letters? Oh well, whatever. Because the role of Freshman Advisor depends on the ability to work well and closely with the hall counselors and the Dean of Students’ Office, the position requires two people like us who are enthusiastic and relate well to people. I’m excited about the prospect of becoming a Freshman Advisor, so let’s campaign hard and meet a lot of people this week.

Psyched,
Laura

P.S. “Open with each other?”

College Union Co-Curricular Vice President

Sheryl Aikman

For Christmas, I want to be elected co-curricular vice-president of the College Union. The co-curricular vice-president assumes responsibility for directing a “comprehensive cultural program for the college.” This is a giant undertaking which demands clear goals, organizational skill, and the ability to work with people. My experience as a member of the Union Board, my commitment to the college community, and my enthusiasm for the Union qualify me for this position. As a member-at-large of the Union Board, I have been responsible for big weekend breakfasts in the 900 room, the Union Christmas party, selling Artists Series tickets, and several other activities. Because I do not have a committee to draw on, I worked independently. I covered the ground from early brainstorms to grocery shopping to event evaluations for each project. In my position, I used my abilities to organize, troubleshoot, recruit help, and carry out a proposal. More important than any single event was the opportunity to participate in the workings of the College Union. I contributed ideas, shared my energy, and sparked excitement for the Union's activities. As co-curricular vice-president, I would strive to upgrade the Artists Series, coordinate sponsorships for events between other campus organizations and the Union, and strive to tap unused human resources in our college community. I plan to strive to serve the Union to the ultimate of my abilities and to uphold the precedents set by the Board presently serving the College. When you see my name on the ballot Tuesday, I'd like you to remember two things: my enthusiasm for the College Union and what it stands for, and my whole-hearted desire to serve the college community in this way.

Thursday, December 12, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

As section staff, assigning stories, making sure material comes in on time, and editing material, Barron has been involved in the production end of the paper including layout and typesetting. If elected to the position of co-editors of The Davidsonian, we hope to increase student participation in the paper because only a handful of Davidson students are involved now. By adding more students to all parts of The Davidsonian’s staff, we hope to be able to broaden the coverage of campus events and events concerning Davidson students, professors, administrators, and personnel. We consider the role of editor of The Davidsonian to be one of organizing people in the paper to allow for the best possible news coverage. In order to achieve this organization, the editor must be experienced in all phases of The Davidsonian, be able to work with people, and have knowledge of what makes a good newspaper. We feel our experience and complementary skills make us fully qualified for the office of co-editors of The Davidsonian.

Student Solicitors

Student solicitors are elected from the rising senior class by all students whose duty it is to investigate violations reported to the Dean of Students, to advise the Dean on the appropriateness of a charge against a student, and to present the case before the Honor Council.

CANDIDATES—
Team of: Emily Bond and David Williams
Team of: Jeff Lesesne, David Lloyd, and Alex Maultsby
Team of: John McNeill and Joe Simpson

Student Defense Advisors

Student defense advisors are elected at large by the student body and are members and assist any person accused before the Council who desires their service.

CANDIDATES—
Team of: Lloyd Chapin and George Guise
Team of: J.D. Fleenor and Alan Futral