Arts & Entertainment

College Union Sponsors ‘Celebrate Women Day’

By SARA BEASLEY

The Union patio was the site of a considerable range of activity Wednesday afternoon. “Celebrate Women Day!” was sponsored by the Women’s Concerns Committee, the Rape Committee, and the Union Patio Committee, and featured a variety of entertainment and information. Among the booths arranged around the patio were Davidson’s Women’s Athletics, a collection of music and literature by women, a table for making Mother's Day cards, as well as information about birth control and rape. The May Pole, created from an ordinary lamp post, was the center of a celebratory dance ritual. The Patio was decorated with carnations everywhere and streamers hanging from the tree.

In keeping with a theme of variety in womanhood, the celebration offered an entire program of entertainment and enlightenment. Susie Myers acted as emcee and, in good cheerleading fashion, twice led the responsive crowd in spelling out “W-O-M-E-N.” The Davidson Gospel Choir started the afternoon's festivities with “God Has Smiled On Me.” Pianist and Assistant Choir Director Dee Perry said: “It is a beautiful day and we have each other. Our song, ‘Happy,’ reflects these feelings.” After the Gospel Choir sang, the Girl Scouts of Troop 382 performed several selections. The Girl Scouts, led by Judy Redd, Paige Dalton, and Linda Higbie, performed “We Are the World.” Young participant Kebe Springs exclaimed, “I had a good time!”

Other musical contributions included Alva Moore's soaring soprano voice in “You Make Me Feel Like a Natural Woman.” Lauren Smith read several of her poems, especially those which focused on different aspects of womanhood. Janet Stovall also read some of her poetry, inviting both sexes to reconsider their relationships with each other. Senior John Syme said that he “enjoyed the poetry especially, simply because it was provocative... I'm glad we had this May Day to raise awareness about women’s issues.” Syme also remarked on the performance by Davidson's Dance Troupe, led by Paulette Kurani: “The dance was provocative, too.” Also provoking enthusiasm were skits directed by Roxanna Guilford. “Roxy’s Players” performed memorable dialogues to illustrate the differences (and the similarities) between the sexes. In a skit written by Rob Reiner, Mark Swift and Elizabeth Wintermute acted out two babies learning to distinguish between boy and girl characteristics.

Rusk Scholar Sophie Manham offered this perspective on the events of the day: “It’s a good idea. I'd like to see a lot more of it. Women don’t seem to talk about being a minority, except among themselves. As somewhat of an outsider on campus, I have noticed a rather patriarchal environment in Davidson. I worry that this May Day celebration has been specially packaged. It should stem naturally.” Coach Patty Daley commented that, “It is about time and it is wonderful!” Missy Kuykendall remarked, “I am delighted that Davidson students are doing this.” Sonie Wood read some of her stories and Karen Jones-Meadows contributed to the finale of the afternoon’s events with the reading of her own poetry. The afternoon ended with the crowd of students, community members, children, faculty, and staff dispersing reluctantly, clasping carnations and crayoned Mother's Day cards.

The celebration was the brainstorm of Mary Jo Clark and Pam Strader, was organized by Ellen Papadeas, and was overseen by Women’s Concerns Committee Melissa Jones and Union executives Ruth Pittard and Elizabeth Smiley. Mary Jo Clark summed up by saying, “I thought it was wonderful. The age range of the talent was remarkable. It was a really festive occasion; an opportunity to think about the issues and have a real fun time. We ought to do it again.”tc make it an annual event.” Religion Professor William Mahony added: “I can't think of a more appropriate day than May 1. It is an archaic day for celebrating the feminine cosmos.”

A less popular person on campus this time of year is none other than Director of Housing Bill Bolding. As of Thursday, the waiting list for on-campus rooms was fluctuating around 100. Naturally, those displaced souls — and their parents — need something (or someone) upon which they can vent their frustrations. Yes, these days, Bolding is everyone's favorite punching bag, as it were.

By DAVID McGEE

My roommate, senior David Snyder, would gladly relish attaching Bill Bolding to any ceiling should anyone care to excise their anxiety just as Muhammad Ali would. Snyder hasn't lived in a dorm since his freshman year. He and senior Steven Bernhardt were forced off campus their sophomore year due (unfortunately!) to Steven’s astronomical room-lottery number that he drew that year. Having close to the highest number in the entire lottery doesn’t quite put one on first Watts or in a Duke single. In addition to David’s mediocre draw, the closest to campus the two were destined to live was, at best, the trailer park behind the Buttery & Beanery.

With tears in their eyes, David and Steven immediately entered the off-campus housing market. Their first stop was a house (which we now fondly call the monastery) not far from where David and I have lived for the past two years. Steven and David cordially met their potential landlady in her parlor. “This isn’t such a bad place,” they thought. Just before they saw the downstairs apartment, however, the owner stopped at the basement door and announced, “I might as well tell y'all now that I don't allow smoking, drinking, or any girls. I don't want to worry about what's going on down there.” Steven, after a quick glance at David, said, “We'll take a look at it anyway.”

For those of you frantically searching for a place to live next year, off-campus living can actually be a real joy. Later, you might even thank Bill Bolding for booting you out of the dorms. Well, maybe not. Anyway, I haven't missed living in a dorm for one nanosecond. I haven't missed, for instance, the indigenous piles of muddied, mildewed, and beer-stained shoes, pants, shirts, and jock straps — left to rot in the hall — from that game of mudball last week. Or the shower that you share with 30 other people, for that matter. Or that sorry excuse for a primate who surrounds his three-day Humes paper binge with his pizza box collection in the hall lounge.

Yes, the Sunday morning strolls through knee-deep ilk (beer cartons, old Charlotte Observers, wads of brown laundry paper, football gear, and other assorted grunge) to the fungus and human-hair crested shower are now forgotten memories. Just once, I wish someone would knock on my door at 2 a.m. and ask to borrow the phone and apologize for (this used to just kill me) — waking me up.

But don't be disillusioned. Living off campus does have its hazards. There is always the temptation to study in complete peace and quiet. Along with that goes all the nights you'll sleep soundly — uninterrupted. The tons of privacy you suddenly find yourself with can become quite a burden if you're not careful. You may just have to live through the times when your landlord goes to Singapore for a month, leaving the house to yourself and the Party Squad.

So, despair not, evicted of Davidson! There's light at the bottom of an off-campus lease.