Friday, November 1, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN 11

Rusk’s optimism creates dangerous impression

Lyle Anderson

We were impressed by Dean Rusk’s Convocation speech, and his singular preoccupation with nuclear war. But he created a dangerous
impression in students’ minds that our nuclear policy is governed by rationality: there is little to do but believe (relax)
or else plug into the two-party political system. Yet every substantive point about the current nuclear impasse seemed traceable to
his optimism, personal political history, or his alleged Calvinism.

First, his optimism. He grouped a number of “nuclear” thinkers in the same alarmist pool. But certainly Herman Kahn and
Helen Caldicott are worlds apart. Kahn was both a rabid number cruncher, the inventor of such terms as “LD ratio”
(meaning the ratio of living to dead after wars of various magnitudes), and a headline monger. Alexander Cockburn’s obituary listed
fifteen major Kahn predictions that proved totally baseless; not even his right-wing ideological allies believed him. Caldicott was drawn into
the antinuclear movement, on the other hand, because the Australian government was hiding its complicity with U.S. nuclear testing that
poisoned thousands of aborigines and uranium miners. Her sources for alarmism are recent computer studies on accidental war that our
own government is now trying to repress and obfuscate. With all the recent trends in nuclear technology (increased missile speed
and forward basing, proliferation, and a geometric increase in NORAD’s false alarm rate), the closing “window of vulnerability” — human
decision time for deciding whether signals of possible enemy attack are genuine — is now downward of three minutes by
the Pentagon’s own analysis. Yet Reagan’s insiders refuse as a matter of policy to disclose whether our computers will “launch
on warning” of (possible!) attack in such cases. NORAD has changed, and classified, the method of counting threat assessment conferences
(TAC’s) in order to bring the 1983 figure of 255 down to under 200 for 1984. (Little wonder: assuming the
1983 data and a declared or defaulted computer-launch policy, there is a 23 percent chance per year of an accidental
U.S. launch, according to a number of corroborating recent studies.)

Moreover, Rusk claimed that nuclear weapons have never been used for policy purposes, while Daniel Ellsberg has chronicled 18 occasions
where U.S. presidents have threatened nuclear blackmail since Nagasaki. Rusk gave no hint that the current preoccupation is among nuclear
analysts of all political persuasions: Do we, by design or sheer technological momentum, have a de facto first-strike policy as
“enhanced deterrence”? Star Wars is better offense than defense.

Second, Rusk’s political history. Grouping himself in the postwar “collective security” strategic group meant some continued misrepresentation of the facts.
First, Stalin did not take anything “by force” in Eastern Europe, because it was all conceded by Potsdam and Yalta.
Russia disarmed 80 percent of its forces after the war while, as Rusk indirectly admitted, the U.S. replaced its reliance
on a nuclear monopoly with foreign-based troops and NATO. There was every appearance of an aggressive U.S. posture, along with
McCarthyism and official demands for “rollbacks,” by the time of the Warsaw Pact and Soviet troops in Poland. Because of
internal tensions in East Europe, the Soviets have no missiles on foreign soil, a notable asymmetry. But Cruise, Pershing, and
the officially nonexistent (non-NATO) French and British missiles are designed for “strategic” use, while NATO will negotiate them only as
“tactical” weapons. But for Rusk, the U.S. never “invades” anyone; it merely “contributes” 80 or 90 percent of its clients’
troops (Korea, Vietnam) or missiles (NATO).

Rusk also went so far as to call “The Day After” left-wing alarmism. But the panel included his former colleague
Robert McNamara, the inventor of “cost-efficient” Vietnam carpet bombing; veteran anti-Soviet rabble-rouser William Buckley, who sanctions a “fallback” first-strike option;
noted interventionist Henry Kissinger, whose latest conflict of interest was between the Contadora “peace” process and his Third World investment
counseling for Goldman, Sachs; token “humanist” Elie Wiesel, a Holocaust survivor and perennial Nobel Peace nominee who confessed ignorance on
nuclear issues (and who explained after the Beirut massacre that “You must be in a position of power to possess
all the information” relevant to moral judgment). The only sane remark was by Carl Sagan; if only 10 percent of
superpower arsenals can cause a nuclear winter, then “basic global hygiene” demands an immediate 90 percent reduction. That panel was
more alarming than the film.

Finally, contrast Rusk’s MAD religion with a prophetic statement by Calvinist theologian and Confessing Church founder Karl Barth, made in
1960: Could we really intend to help... even one individual among those suffering under (communism’s) effects, by proclaiming and seeking
to practice toward it a relationship exclusively that of enemies. Have we forgotten that what is at stake in this
“absolute enemy” relationship, to which every brave man in the West is now obligated... is a typical invention of (and
a heritage from) our defunct dictators and that only the “Hitler in us” could be an anticommunist in principle? Did
we give the Eastern [wartime] partner any choice? Did we not provoke him by erecting a massive Western defense alliance,
by encircling him with artillery, by establishing the German Federal Republic — which seemed to...him like a clenched fist pushed
under his nose — and by rearming this republic and equipping it with nuclear missiles? Did we not challenge our
former partner to corresponding countermeasures of power display and thus... strengthen him in his peculiar malice? Did the West finally
know no better than to put its trust in its infamous A- and H-bombs? And did it not serve the
West right to have to realize that the other side had not remained idle in that regard? Was there no
better diplomacy for the West than the one which now maneuvers the world into what seems a blind alley? Moreover,
what kind of Western philosophy and political ethics — and unfortunately even theology — was it whose wisdom consisted of
recasting the Eastern collective man into an angel of darkness and the Western “organization man” into an angel of light?
And then with the help of such metaphysics and mythology... bestowing on the absurd “cold war” struggle its needed higher
consecration? Were we so unsure of the goodness of the Western cause and of the power of resistance of Western
man that we could bring ourselves to admit only senselessly unequal alternatives — freedom and the dignity of man as
against mutual atomic annihilation — then venture to pass off just this latter alternative as a work of true Christian
love?

I think that the Western press and literature instead of meeting the inhuman with inhumanity should have put to the
test the vaunted humanity of the West by quietly observing and understanding Eastern individuals and relationships in their dialectical reality...
As at Reagan press conferences, the student panel was advised not to ask any “hard” questions, nor allowed follow-ups. Though
Rusk’s gentlemanly manner was in some respect a plus, Hannah Arendt has complained that there are too many gentlemen around:
the “banality of evil” peculiar to twentieth-century technocracy makes designing gas chambers at Auschwitz and warheads at Amarillo seem equally
innocuous.

S. Anderson is a visiting assistant professor of philosophy.

College should strengthen Latin American studies
David Williams

Last week the Charles A. Dana Foundation granted $300,000 to Davidson to “attract outstanding new faculty” and “enhance the quality
of curriculum.” Two months ago, the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies commenced in order “to give each student, first,
an informed awareness of our whole planet, and second, direct knowledge of at least one foreign area.” In light of
these appropriate additions to the Davidson curriculum, it seems fundamental that Davidson officials should carefully seek out areas of the
curriculum which need strengthening and use the Dana grant and Dean Rusk program as resources for action upon their findings.

One specific area which could be significantly enhanced is the area of Latin American studies. Granted, Davidson has a strong
Spanish Department under the direction of Chairman Hernandez-Chiroldes. Courses on Latin American people, literature, culture, and ideas and arts are
offered, along with a course in Mexican history. Each of these courses provides the Spanish-speaking student with a comprehensive perspective
on the unique culture of Latin America. Yet because these courses are conducted only in Spanish, the non-Spanish speaking population
of Davidson is virtually excluded from gaining insight or perspective into Latin American culture. To my knowledge, with the exception
of one or two rarely taught seminars, no courses on Latin America are taught in English at Davidson. When one
considers that the population of Latin American countries composes the majority of the population of the Western hemisphere, one can
realize how much of this hemisphere one is overlooking by not having the opportunity to take a course in Latin
American studies.

Let's consider what would happen if the same situation occurred in other departments. If courses on African politics were taught
only in the native language of African countries, Dr. Proctor would probably have to teach African Political Systems in over
100 different languages. If courses on Indian and Chinese history were taught only in Urdu and Chinese, Dr. Thomas would
have a rather difficult time finding enough Urdu-speaking and Chinese-speaking students to take his courses. To get to the point,
grants such as those from the Dana Foundation and the Dean Rusk Endowment could and should be used to develop
such courses and programs that would provide non-Spanish-speaking students with more opportunities to learn about Latin American culture. New professors
brought to Davidson by these grants could work to develop these programs. Political science, history, religion, and arts courses taught
in English could provide those who have studied French and German as their foreign language the opportunity for Latin American
awareness. These types of courses could possibly even generate enough interest among students that they would want to become fluent
in Spanish. If development efforts such as the Dean Rusk program and the Dana grant are to be successful, the
area of Latin American studies would be a worthwhile place for success to begin.

Williams is a junior political science major from Memphis, TN.
