Sports Preview
Friday, September 13, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Men's Soccer Team Battles Tough Schedule And Injuries
By ANDY BARRON

Though Davidson’s soccer team had a mediocre 9-9-1 record last season, the team was not mediocre. Last year the Wildcats returned a host of talented upperclassmen and brought in yet another superb set of freshmen. So, you ask, why was the team 9-9-1? Unfortunately, the Cats had a tough schedule. How tough? Duke, North Carolina State, Wake Forest, South Carolina, Georgia State, and national champion Clemson were included on Davidson’s out-of-conference agenda. Add a challenging Southern Conference season and suddenly 9-9-1 doesn’t look so bad.

This season is similar to last year in many ways. Powerful teams once again fill the schedule and, though graduation robbed Davidson of many fine players, Davidson still has plenty of talent. Does this mean another .500 season? Davidson’s first three games made .500 look appealing. Richmond bombed Davidson 4-0 and then William and Mary added insult to injury by winning 3-0. Wake Forest continued the trend by beating Davidson 1-0.

“I knew going into the season that we had three extremely tough road games to start off with,” said coach Charlie Slagle. “To tell the truth, 1-2 was what I’d hoped we would be after those games. Yet a tough out-of-conference schedule is good for the program. Our goals are always to win the conference and make the best possible effort to make the NCAA tournament. By playing tough teams we allow ourselves a chance to make the NCAA’s and get the best possible preparation for the conference race.”

Davidson returns three All-Conference selections from last year’s squad. Seniors Wallis Goodman and Tony Cabrales and sophomore Jim Kelly will be the leaders as Davidson tries to return to the Southern Conference title game after last year’s near miss. “Goodman, Cabrales, and Kelly all need to have All-Conference years again for us to be successful,” Slagle said. “We also need for our sophomores to mature and have some key players return from injuries.”

It will be Cabrales’s task to help Davidson put more points on the board. Last year’s attack lacked consistency and often failed to put away important goals. Cabrales will be aided by seniors Sean Austin and Sean Goudie as well as juniors Brian Shockley and Carter Grine. If sophomore Craig Mattison can overcome knee problems, the offense could get an additional boost.

Sophomore maturity is crucial in the midfield area. Gone is All-Conference midfielder Mike Lufkin. The midfield leader will be senior Bill Coxhead. Aiding Coxhead are sophomores Steve Ott and Andy Clarke. Due to injuries, Goodman, often a midfielder, has been moved to the back line.

The defense has been hurt by both graduation and injury. David Flowers and Jim Wright have moved from the backline to the sideline as assistant coaches. Junior Sean Moser’s season-ending injury has also hurt. If that wasn’t enough, junior Chris Jones continues to suffer the effects of last year’s season-ending shoulder separation. Yet all is not lost. Goodman has been moved back to help the defense. Goalie Kelly is possibly the team’s strongest player. Add junior Steve Stith and sophomores Mike Spears and Joe Moss and you get a talented and improving defense.

Appalachian State will once again be a difficult obstacle for Davidson to overcome on the road to the conference title game. If Davidson manages to reach the championship match, more than likely they will meet Furman, the team to beat according to Slagle. Yet the talent is there to win the conference title.

The Cats play at home this weekend in the United Carolina Bank/Davidson tournament. It will be at this tournament that Davidson’s new soccer field is unveiled. Davidson starts conference play September 25 at Appalachian State.

Football Team Sports News
Offense Under Gatto
By MIKE ADAMS

Those of you who have watched Davidson’s football team over the last few seasons will notice a drastic change in the Wildcats’ offensive scheme. Davidson attempted 55 passes against Western Carolina in their 13-0 loss on Saturday. Really? This is not the brand of “three-yards-in-a-cloud-of-dust” Wildcat football we have grown to know. Head Coach Vic Gatto promises more of the same, “From a fan’s standpoint we’ll be fun to watch.” Offensively, the Cats will live or die by the forward pass. Gatto says that the 55 attempts on Saturday may become the norm for the season.Leading this aerial attack is junior quarterback Steve Bradley. He returns as the most productive passer from last year’s squad. His principal targets are junior tight end Mike Jones and senior wingback Jay Poag. The Davidson “Multiple” offense will remain one-dimensional — almost entirely passing — until the return of senior running back Horace Manor. Manor seriously injured his arm in the summer and is waiting for medical approval to play. Gatto assesses Manor’s ability as “unbelievable” and calls him one of the best I-AA backs he has seen. He should provide a much-needed ground attack to a team that rushed for only 20 yards in the season opener.

The offensive line played well in Saturday’s game. Led by senior captain Lou Krempel at center, the Cats' front five allowed only 2 sacks. Continued good pass blocking will be essential for Davidson's high-flying offense.

The Wildcat defense will show opponents a variety of sets. The only consistent feature, according to Gatto, will be a four-deep secondary. The anchor of the Davidson defense is junior defensive end Marcus Allen. He is a pre-season IAA All-American and has great strength and quickness. The defensive line has three linemen with starting experience in senior tackle Andy Macary, junior tackle Charles Showers, and sophomore nose guard Emmanuel Burch. Gatto says that Burch has returned from the summer “in the best shape of his life.”

The defensive backfield is hurt by the absence of junior safety Gary Stewart who has mononucleosis. He led the team in tackles last year with 71 and was a defensive leader. Tony Smith, a senior cornerback, has taken over some leadership in the defensive backfield and had a great game on Saturday with 11 tackles and an interception.

The punting duties will be handled by Jay Poag who ripped a 70-yarder against Western Carolina. Senior Bob Carr returns with two years of experience to handle the kick-offs and the place kicking. His only kick-off on Saturday was not returned.

The Wildcat football team promises a new and exciting look this season, but wins might be hard to come by. There is a real lack of depth at every position. With no recruiting taking place last year due to the coaching change, there is no immediate help from the freshmen. This lack of depth may cause problems as the year progresses if there are many injuries. The Wildcats also have a very tough schedule, especially in October when they play four teams with combined 1984 records of 29-13. Most opponents are going to be bigger and stronger than Davidson and a lot will depend on the arm of Steve Bradley.

1985 Soccer Schedule
14 Roanoke 1 p.m.
17 at Salem 4 p.m.
20 Pfeiffer 4 p.m.
23 at Catawba 4 p.m.
30 at High Point
Nov. 5 Conf. Championship at Charleston, SC (M)
16 NCAA Region III at Greenville, SC
23 NAIA National Championship at Kenosha, WI (M/W)
30 NCAA National Championship at Milwaukee, WI

1985 Football Schedule
Sept. 7 Western Carolina 2 p.m.
14 Gardner-Webb 1:30 p.m.
21 at Bucknell 7 p.m.
23 at South Carolina 4 p.m.
25 at Marshall 7:30 p.m.
27 at VMI 2 p.m.
30 Pfeiffer 3 p.m.
Nov. 2 Appalachian State 1:30 p.m.
9 S. Conf. Championship at N. Div. Champion

1985 Cross Country Schedule
Sept. 14 Duke, Wake Forest, DePaul at Winston-Salem (M/W)
21 Lynchburg, Campbell, Emory at Lynchburg, VA (M/W)
28 Appalachian State, Furman, Western Carolina, Citadel at Charleston, SC (M)
Oct. 5 NAIA District 26 Championships at Pembroke, NC (M/W)

1985 Field Hockey Schedule
Sept. 12 Wake Forest 4 p.m.
16 Catawba 1:30 p.m.
19 Marshall 11:30 a.m.
23 at South Carolina 4 p.m.
25 at Marshall 7:30 p.m.
27 at VMI 2 p.m.
30 Pfeiffer 3 p.m.
Oct. 2 at Wake Forest 4 p.m.
5 at Pfeiffer 11 a.m.
7 UNCC 3:30 p.m.
10 at Radford 4 p.m.
13 Georgia State 2 p.m.
15 N.C. State 3:30 p.m.
19 at Newberry 7:30 p.m.
22 Catawba 4 p.m.
25 at Appalachian State 7 p.m.
28 at Erskine 3 p.m.
31 High Point 3:30 p.m.