2

SGA Announces Election Results

The following won elections held during the past two weeks:

Sophomore Senate:
- Sally Schilling (president)
- Karen Kemerait
- Ken Mobley

Junior Senate:
- Alex Maultsby (president)
- Dawn Bhasin
- Emily Bond

Senior Senate:
- Edward Hay (president)
- Jenny Gotto
- David Moye

Sophomore Honor Council:
- Jody Hart
- Janet Bitter
- Holly Sparks

Junior Honor Council:
- Holly Gaston
- Shel Robinson
- Eric Strother

Senior Honor Council:
- Tommy Cardwell
- Mary Edwards
- Robert McLean

CCRL:
- Edwin Evans
- Jon Harbert

Defense Advisors:
- Jim Burson & Sean Goudie

Student Solicitors:
- Philip Lackey, Jeff Willis & Pat Millen

Quips and Cranks:
- Peggy Pierotti
- Hobart Park
- Allison McGill & Martha Wilson

Student Conduct Council:
- Kelley Dixon
- Mary Olive Smith

Review Board:
- Mickey McDonald

Congress Stops ‘Adopt A Contra’ Campus Appeal

(CPS)—After encountering heavy congressional pressure, the National College Republicans have dropped a half-facetious campaign to get college students to “adopt”
individual Nicaraguan rebels. The group has dropped its “Save the Contras” fund drive, only a week after it was launched.

“Some people have no sense of humor about this sort of thing,” College Republican Deputy Director Jeff Pandin says.

The College Republicans launched their drive, Pandin says, to publicize private-sector efforts to back the Nicaraguan rebels with relief supplies,
and to help the Reagan administration win approval for renewed government funding for the rebels. Pandin says the “campaign” was
really just a poster “roughly” modeled on a “Save the Children” poster, which solicits donations by pointing out that for
just a few cents a day, patrons can support an impoverished child abroad.

“For 53 cents a day, you can support a Nicaraguan freedom-fighter,” the College Republican poster says.

Until last June, the Central Intelligence Agency aided rebels fighting the Nicaraguan government regime. Since Congress, upon discovering the CIA’s
program last year, angrily stopped the aid, a dozen or so U.S. conservative organizations have been raising funds to aid
the rebels. To help the administration and the private fundraisers, the College Republicans’ national board authorized the posters in January.
The group distributed some 5,000 posters in mid-March, but quickly was attacked in Congress.

Several congressmen endorsed the College Republicans campaign, Pandin claims, but the overall reaction suggested it would not help renew congressional
support for the rebels. “Because we're associated with the Republican Party people take what we do as having party approval,”
he says. “We have to be sensitive to that.”

The Save the Children Foundation was unhappy too, claiming the College Republican poster violated the copyright on its poster. Pandin
said any funds donated will be returned to the sender.

Colleges Raise Admission Standards

(CPS)—Colleges are going to be even tougher to get into next fall, an American Council on Education (ACE) survey has
found. Institutions nationwide, for the second time this decade, are moving almost in lockstep to raise their admissions standards and
iron “gimmick” courses out of their curricula.

“In general, colleges want to get the message to high school students to take college preparatory courses so colleges can
stop teaching remedial classes,” said Eva Galambos, co-author of a Southern Regional Education Board admissions standards study.

Of more than 400 colleges surveyed, 60 percent plan to upgrade entrance requirements, including standardized test scores. Two-thirds of the
nation’s schools now make freshmen take math and English placement tests in order to be accepted, while 40 percent require
writing samples.Proficiency exams, the study shows. The universities of Illinois and Washington, for example, are examining tougher entrance requirements. Arizona's
new standards go into effect in 1987 and Tennessee’s in 1989. North Carolina’s Higher Education Commission wants to reject students
who score under 700 on their Scholastic Aptitude Tests at state schools. At the University of Southern California, this year’s
new standards mean next fall’s freshman class could boast a 3.45 average GPA. Not everyone favors the tougher standards, however.
Raising minimum SAT scores will “be devastating to our plan for racial admission,” said University of North Carolina spokesman Robert
Dawson. “Four years of school work gives more of a prediction of success than a three-hour examination on Saturday morning.”

Other critics argue tougher standards will disqualify “average students, minorities, and others who may flourish in college despite poor academic
records.” One move to stiffer requirements—particularly higher test scores—comes at the precise time some schools are dropping standardized test scores
as a screen for new applicants. “I have the feeling the SAT might be culturally biased,” said Harvard researcher Dean
Whitla. “Hispanics tend to score lower on the verbal test.” Harvard wants to make the SAT admission requirement optional, and
let entering freshmen take a battery of five achievement tests. “Achievement tests have always been stronger predictors,” Whitla says. The
California Postsecondary Education Commission wants to lower Cal State admission requirements because only 29 percent of the state’s high school
graduates can meet the current standards. But most colleges are moving in the other direction, urging high schools to teach
college-bound students what colleges will expect of them, says ACE study author Elaine El Khawas. And most colleges are sticking
with the SAT.

Seniors Elected To Phi Beta Kappa Membership

The following members of the class of 1985 were elected to membership in the Davidson Phi Beta Kappa chapter:

Albert Farmer Aiken, Jr.
Mark Winslow Batten
Charles Henry Blake, III
Kathryn Jean Clark
Ruth Anne Clark
John Howard Cobb
David Robertson Coxe
Timothy Barrett DeSieno
Craig Nelson Detweiler
Mary Elizabeth Elkin
Barry Ward Elledge, Jr.
Frederic Howard Garner, IV
Katherine Anne Gratto
Jon Michael Hain
Glenda Leilani Hamilton
Mary Lou Hamilton
Charles Andrew Harrison
Robert Boyd Heglar
Kristin Joan Hills
Julie Ann Kern
Lance Alan Lasner
Robert Warren Letton, Jr.
Daniel Payne Lindsey
Robert Benton Loper
Bobby Kenneth McCullen, Jr.
Laura Ellen McDonald
John Kelly McGuirt
Julia Lynn Morrisett
Gregory Francis Murphy
Charles Alexander Nelson
Tanya Mercedes Oglukian
Elena Marie Paul
Judith Virginia Redd
Keith Douglas Revell
Nancy Catherine Rosselot
Murray Stephen Simpson
David Vernon Snyder
Joanne Carol Stryker
Kelly Kay Sundberg
Jill Van Den Bos
Hendrick Wilhelm Van Deventer
James Walker, IV
Martha Kristina Yeide

Union Committee Sponsors Circus

The Royal Lichtenstein Sidewalk Circus will perform on the Chambers lawn this afternoon at 3 p.m. The free show is
sponsored by the Union Cultural Events Committee. The circus presents a brand new cast of performers in its thirteenth annual
national tour. Featured in this year’s edition are wire-walking, unicycling, juggling, and comedian routines, as well as magic animal acts
and two narrated mime fables. This year’s fables are “Two Towns”: a whimsical account of a dancing magician's experiment with
capitalism; and “Herman and the Night”: comic interplay between a cosmic crank and a sprite.

Wednesday, April 10, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN News Summary
