Friday, February 8, 1985 / The Davidsonian

Investigation, Grapevine Hurt Davidson Student Joe Johnson

It is common knowledge that a rape occurred on our campus this month. Though I use this space to discuss
an aspect of the incident other than the trauma suffered by the victim, I do not wish the careless reader
to infer either that I am unsympathetic to the victim or that I consider any aspect of rape more important
than the suffering of its victim. I am considering here the aftermath of the crime not because what is now
wrong is worse than the crime itself, but because it is too late to stop the latter and high time
to stop the former.

The Davidson Grapevine has seen its finest hours in the last few weeks — in itself not necessarily a harmful
development — but there is at least one and probably more than one individual who is most assuredly harmed by
it. SGA Senator Jay Gaither was reported to the Davidson police by several students as fitting the physical description of
the rapist (as well as wearing one of the infamous blue baseball caps with the “B”-ish-looking “D” on it) in
the days following the attack. On Wednesday night (Jan. 16) he was questioned extensively by four officers as to his
whereabouts, whatabouts, and whoabouts the night of the attack, at which time he gave them the phone numbers of a
Greensboro friend with whom he spent Thursday night and of his parents in Newton-Conover, N.C. with whom he spent the
entirety of his weekend. As I (possibly incorrectly) understand the situation, neither party was contacted for approximately five days.

SGA Security and Parking Committee Chairman Carroll Overton was contacted — by Davidson Police Chief Jack Warlick, who suggested that
Gaither be removed from the committee “pending further investigation.” Overton complied, for he had also been contacted by a group
of co-eds who felt that they “expressed the sentiment of the Davidson women” in saying that they didn’t feel safe
with Gaither on the Library Escort Service. The budding young sleuths added that he was something of a “shady character.”
(Indeed, given this year’s rash of dorm thefts, I can only hope these same individuals don’t consider my forehead slanted
or my eyes beady.)

Another word of clarification as to the purpose of this article is in order here. I am not out to
demonstrate Gaither’s innocence; on the other hand, to do so would be directly contrary to my purpose and as superfluous
and unnecessary as “innocent until proven guilty” rhetoric. This article is about mass irresponsibility.

Now to get back to the finger-pointing: the apparent source of the difficulty seems to be indiscretion on the part
of the Davidson police investigating the rape. In being entrusted with the awesome and doubtlessly unenviable task of investigating such
a crime, the investigating officer assumes an implicit responsibility to refrain from harming others in the course of — and
indeed, by the course of — his or her investigation. With this view in mind, the premature release of names
toward the nebulous end of protecting students from one of the Library Escort Service members seems to reek of irresponsibility.
The harm caused by this initial act would be of little consequence were it not for the always dependable Davidson
Student Reaction. For me to expound on the irresponsibility of scurrilous gossip would be as earth-shattering as it would be
to editorialize against the act of rape itself; perhaps it suffices to declare that the campus reaction to the situation
has shown all the discretion of “The People’s Court,” all the sensitivity of a lynch mob, and all the calm,
composed, and careful rationality of a torch-lit seventeenth-century witch hunt.

All harsh words aside, there appear to be at least two courses of action against rape available to us. We
can adopt sound, rational measures to reduce the chances of Davidson students being attacked and to raise their collective awareness
of the alarming frequency of such attacks. The SGA, the Raised Awareness and Protection for Everyone (RAPE) Committee and, for
the most part, the Davidson police are among several groups that are taking these positive and presumably effective measures. We
may also scoot around like a collection of headless chickens who carry axes and make more headless chickens, forever panicking
and chopping, panicking and chopping... Hopefully, those who claim to speak for all the Davidson women — and men —
will consent to the first direction rather than the second, for we cannot continue to go in two directions at
once. I am of the opinion that putting a stop to these ridiculous rumors is a fine step in the
right direction inasmuch as it will save not only further harm to a fellow student, but also a certain credibility
cost and possible financial cost to our College.

It is more than possible that my facts regarding the incidents following the rape are either inaccurate or incomplete; much
of what has happened is simply none of my business. I stand by my charge of irresponsibility even in light
of this possibility, for it remains clear that the results of this investigation indicate anything but critical consideration and moderate
action (i.e., the moderate road of “thinking” between the two extremes of “thinking out loud” and “not thinking at all”).
If the empirical facts are otherwise, they alter only the severity of my charge — not the nature of it.

Johnson is a junior philosophy major from Smithfield, N.C.

David Resnik

I have decided to bomb Mike Stephens’ room. Oh, don’t worry. I’ll make sure he’s not there. No one will
be hurt. I may go to jail for 80 years, but who cares. The bombing will not be senseless because
I’m doing it for aWorthy cause. People like Stephens would enslave 1.5 million women a year. I believe very strongly
in human rights and will take any necessary steps to protect them. Surely Stephens will sympathize with the bombing of
his room, since he sympathizes with the bombings of abortion clinics. Stephens’ article in last week’s Davidsonian “Bombing of Abortion
Clinics Is Not Senseless” truly enraged me. Pardon my use of ad hominem tactics, but I have found most of
his articles sophomoric, fallacious, and tendentious, yet for the most part, harmless. But Stephens’ last article was far from harmless.
While not openly advocating the abortion bombings, Stephens tried to rationalize the bombings by sympathizing with the views of the
bombers. I find it paradoxical that a “good” Christian like Stephens could even think the bombings were not senseless. If
he really cared about human life he would not be able even to sympathize with the bombings. I will not
enter the abortion debate as Stephens does so carelessly in his article. I don’t care what you think about abortion.
No view of the issue can rationalize the bombings or make them not senseless. Violence should not be used to
further political/moral/religious goals even if there is a 99 percent chance that it won’t harm anyone. No matter how “worthy”
the cause may be, the ends do not justify the means. What would’ve happened if the bombings had killed or
injured people? Then living, breathing conscious people would’ve died in order to stop the so-called murder of merely possibly viable
humans. The bombers would find themselves in the absurd position of murdering to stop murder. Any anti-abortionist who truly cared
about human life would not take even the remotest chance of killing a person in order to stop abortions. By
using violent means, anti-abortionists contradict themselves and make their beliefs lack sincerity. If anti-abortionists sincerely believe in their cause, they
should use non-violent means, such as sit-ins or marches, to achieve their ends. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and Mahatma
Gandhi both accomplished meaningful social change through nonviolence. King could have bombed Ku Klux Klan houses to protest the lynching
of blacks. Gandhi could have bombed British outposts to protest British dominion over India. In both cases, their opponents were
killing actual living human beings. But King and Gandhi did not lower themselves to the level of their enemies. They
refused to fight violence with violence. Abortion protesters should learn from the examples of King and Gandhi. A meaningful and
persuasive protest against what one considers senseless violence will not succeed if it is itself senseless and violent. Social goals
should be achieved through education, rational debate, and non-violent protests, not through indoctrination, sophistry, and senseless violence. Stephens did not
advocate violence; he only tried to show how it was not senseless. But his views are only a short step
away from an actual bombing, since his attempt to rationalize violent means psychologically prepares people to execute those means. Resnik
is a senior philosophy major from Chapel Hill, N.C., and an editor emeritus of The Davidsonian.

The patrols will get hurt by taking matters into their own hands instead of calling security. He has expressed his
concern to the RAPE committee, but has obviously gone unheard. As a side note, let me relate the stories of
two of my friends who separately were in Charlotte and Statesville and were asked what was the problem at Davidson.
Words of the patrols made the local news and it seems many people outside of Davidson now believe that we
have a violent rape problem (as compared to a “date” rape problem) that has demanded a drastic measure — student
watches. This is not an image Davidson should portray, especially as inaccurate as it is. I believe the committee’s energy
and resources can be spent in much more beneficial ways to enable them, and all of us who support their
intentions, to reach their goal of changing Davidson students’ attitudes. RAPE, please stop your patrols or at least convince us
of the need for them.

To the Editors:

Avoiding the “pompous rhetoric” that we were so ironically and rudely accused of in the last issue of The Davidsonian,
I will get to the point. The issue is not the survival of Sigma Phi Epsilon, but how we will
continue our operations in the future. Sigma Phi Epsilon has been at Davidson fifty-five years and will continue to, even
if our present petition were denied. If survival were the question, we could easily agree to eat at the house,
an action the PCC has unanimously endorsed. This misses the point, however, for our members strongly favor our present eating
arrangements. My feelings are this: it is often much easier to do that which is expedient rather than what is
right. I think Davidson College encourages and reinforces our own desires to act as we feel is right. Another mistake
is our purported claims as “the wave of the future” and “Davidson's destiny.” We do not seek such labels but
rather genuinely believe that we can provide a healthy alternative to Patterson Court. The CCRL supported this view by the
substantial margin of 12-1-3 after obtaining much input from all sides. In closing, several have expressed the concern that our
proposal indicated the end of Patterson Court eating. In truth, it merely acknowledges that not everyone prefers such arrangements. The
closing of three Patterson Court houses in less than two years demonstrated that preferences have changed. The overwhelming support for
a new all-women’s eating house also reinforces the preference of many, though not all, to choose eating on the Court.
I do not feel our proposal threatens such support, but rather can strengthen Patterson Court membership in a new dimension.

Steve MacMillan
