Friday, February 1, 1985 / The Davidsonian 5

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Tennessee And Tell Me Another Story Hit Home

By ROSS HOLT

A character study of an aged hill-woman and a tender examination of mother-daughter relationships highlight this week’s workshop plays. Tennessee
by Romulus Linney, directed by junior Meagan Bos, and Tell Me Another Story, Sing Me A Song, by Jean Lenox
Toddie, directed by senior Amy Burton, both span large parts of their characters' lives and translate the characters’ emotions in
equally fine productions.

Tennessee is the story of the life of an old mountain woman, so old she is “either 19 or 90,”
as one character says. The woman, played effectively by sophomore Laeta Kalogridis, has departed her Tennessee home on foot for
a final visit to her homestead in North Carolina. At the homestead, however, lives a family that has purchased the
land from the woman’s now dead relatives. With the curious family members watching, the woman acts out the course of
her life to explain why she returned.

Kalogridis shines as the woman. A difficult role, the character indeed ages from 19 to 90 during the course of
the play. Kalogridis manages the transitions impressively. As an old, old woman, she is stooped and even appears toothless; her
accent, reflecting both region and age, never falters; and her hands and gestures appear arthritic and aged. None of the
aspects of her character, however, ever turn into cliché. Kalogridis also executes the woman's transformations in age well, especially her
first in which she goes from 90 back to 19. Kalogridis carries this transformation so subtly that you do not
know it is happening until it has ended. Later, she moves from young adulthood to late middle age with a
mere pulling back of the hair.

The show essentially belongs to Kalogridis, but it is framed by the dreams of the mountain family. Senior Scot Myers,
freshmen Beth Parker, and Dan Michaelis play mother, father, and son who work the land and hope for it one
day to pay. They also briefly play characters from the old woman's youth. The actors create their characters consistently, but
at times fail to project their lines. Still, for most of the play they are watching Kalogridis, and deserve commendation
for standing still in character. It is harder than it appears.

As the old woman's husband Griswold, junior Allen brings a commanding presence to the stage. In well-blocked scenes, he and
Kalogridis create an adversarial relationship between their characters as funny as it is, ultimately, heart-rending. The play also boasts good
production values. Director Bos makes good use of two boxes, which serve equally as a table, a wagon bench, and
a tombstone. Lighting successfully creates compelling moods, though they seem a bit too sudden sometimes. Tennessee is a quiet play
given a thoughtful production. With a bitter twist in the end, it offers a moving account of a woman who
has lived her empty life, as she says, “between two flashes of a mirror.”

Tell Me Another Story, Sing Me A Song shifts in

Art Professor To Give Exhibition

By TREEBY WILLIAMSON

Bats, bicycles, and other childhood memories appear in art Professor Pamela DeLaura’s upcoming exhibit, “Works on Paper.” The combination of
prints and mixed media (a technique which uses such materials as watercolor, pencil, pastel in one drawing), approximately 20 in
all, focuses on DeLaura’s “directly autobiographical childhood memories.” DeLaura has been working on the childhood theme for four years. Though
the drawings include commentaries, written by the artist, explaining the particular circumstances which inspired the work of art, DeLaura wishes
the accompanying text to be simply “a departing point” from which viewers can look back to their childhood.

According to DeLaura, who grew up in Erie, Penn., her work still “has universal implications” despite its personal nature. Art
has always been a part of her life. In grade school she “did all right in math and English, but
art class was the euphoric experience of the day.” She said, “I never considered myself an artist, however, because I
thought you had to be chosen from birth — fated — to be an artist. But I always loved looking
at pictures.”

Even through high school, DeLaura never considered art school as an option. But with the strong encouragement from some of
her high school teachers, she decided to make art a career. She graduated from State University of New York College
at Buffalo with a major in studio art and then attended the Tyler School of Art, a part of Temple
University in Philadelphia, for her graduate work. During this time, there were many instances when she questioned her intentions. “I
asked myselfwhat I was trying to do in becoming an artist? Was I as good as all those real artists?”
In creating a piece of art, DeLaura begins with a memory and tries to visualize it as an image. She
jots random thoughts down in a notebook. She also makes rough sketches and drawings. DeLaura has spent up to 12
hours straight working on a drawing. She explained that “There's a lot of discipline involved. It's a lot easier to
turn on the television than work, but you've got to have discipline if you want to get anywhere.” DeLaura tries
to work in two modes. In the subjective mode she tries to convey what she feels. In the objective mode
she asks herself if what she wants to express “makes sense as a concrete piece of art.” Often, I'll stare
at a work for two hours before I decide what I want to do next. It's all a part of
the process. When I start getting frustrated, though, I stop.”

DeLaura specifically addresses herself to her viewer, who she feels is very important. Yet she describes herself as “not so
idealistic in thinking that everyone will like it or will understand what I’m doing. All I want is for them
to relate my work to themselves. I want to strike an emotional chord, be it big or little.” DeLaura plans
to focus on the theme of childhood indefinitely. Yet she feels that as an artist, “You can’t plan your life,
though sometimes I wish I could. Of course, any artist wants recognition — to be in a famous gallery because
no one does it [art] just for himself. You have to show your work to others. If you make something
and just shove it under the bed, you won't last.” She would also like to continue teaching, preferably where she
and her husband, a musician, can find work. “I like teaching and the freedom I'm given at Davidson to teach
what I want, how I want.”

DeLaura wants to focus from the hills to the modern world, from the life of one character to the intertwined
lives of two. The play derives its title from the plea of a five-year-old girl played by senior Alva Moore,
who is scared of the dark. Her mother, played by Meitra Khazaeli, responds as all mothers do, unwilling to pamper
her child yet deeply desiring to do so. Tell Me Another Story then follows the mother-daughter relationship through crises both
major and minor, until the roles have become more or less reversed.

This play is unique in that it is made up of the universal language of growing up and of family
drama. Audience members can hear themselves and their parents in the lines, some of which are clichés (“What would the
neighbors think?”). The play, consequently, threatens to be pat, perhaps even trite. Burton's well-integrated production, however, rises above this threat.
Moore and Khazaeli bring the daughter and the mother beyond the stereotypical, and use the moveable set pieces to enhance
and define their characters. Moore displays a good feel for the whims of childhood, the capriciousness of the teenage years,
and the responsibility of adulthood. Her process of maturation matches well with Khazaeli, who herself moves from the authority of
parenthood to the desire to relax restraints as a grandparent. Khazaeli and Moore have genuine chemistry on stage; they have
recreated the subtle touches and inflections of the relationship they are portraying.

The set consists of six boxes which the actors arrange in various positions. The boxes serve as beds, chairs, tables,
even upstairs rooms. Burton has wisely set up a rhythm for their movement, so the set pieces do not end
up in the same place time and again. As used by the actors, they serve symbolic purposes too: at one
point a counter or bar becomes a wall between mother and daughter. Tell Me Another Story is about everyone. It
encapsulates a story of which most of us have lived at least part into a concise drama. It ultimately helps
put that story into a new perspective.

This week's workshop plays offer commentary on the family and the individual within the family. The two strong productions drive
their messages home.

Pamela DeLaura conveys her belief that art should “make a statement and make people think” and is therefore a vital
part of our society. “Works on Paper” begins Feb. 4 and runs until Feb. 28 in Chambers Gallery. There is
a reception from 4 to 6 p.m. Feb. 6 as well as a talk in the Gallery from 10 to
11 a.m. Feb. 7.
