Friday, October 18, 1985  
THE DAVIDSONIAN  

The real Davidson experience  
Anthony Gristina  

It seems to me that many high school students entertain grave misconceptions of the infamous freshman year at college. Although this is a very broad conclusion, I feel that it is especially true at Davidson. Speaking strictly from a male bias, I was overwhelmed by the stories concerning illicit affairs that occurred at the so-called fraternity parties. I must now laugh at myself when I recall the fantasies I created about what I would do at these gatherings. Little did I know that attending these parties is about as contrived as actually playing a role in one of the numerous affected movies that Hollywood created about them. From the moment the house threshold is crossed, the facade appears and Act I begins. Facade runs into facade, please excuse my lackadaisical personification, with conversations ranging from the enormous amount of alcohol consumed to the intensity of last night’s sexual plunder. In all honesty, both actors would learn more about each other by simply making eye contact and remaining in silence. To avoid the risk of being labeled a hypocrite, I must admit that I am guilty of all the crimes mentioned and it must be understood that I am not attacking the insecure freshman, for I once was one. These parties must be viewed as a learning experience to be enjoyed or suffered in moderation and subsequently dismissed as you would evolve out of a stage like the shift from Motley Crue to Mozart. My illustration is only to point out that the most meaningful experiences of my first year took place in the privacy and intimacy of my Belk dorm room and not on the stage of expectation in a frat house.  

To clarify myself further, I must state that the Davidson student was not designed to participate in the typical fraternity scene, and that quite simply is why they must assume an unnatural role at the gathering. Frat parties are designed to support the mentality of a state school student who goes to college with ambitions of becoming a bank teller, not the starved minds of the “intellectually elite” as The Charlotte Observer labelled us. I know that you now want my opinion of the natural role. The significance of freshman year is to get to know yourself, because without this knowledge one cannot dream of finding direction. This endeavor is essential at Davidson because most of the students here are of a complex nature with great potential. Intelligence is a quality that must be mastered, because if left uncontrolled or unused it can be more of a hindrance than an asset. A disused intellect can only lead to depression because you cannot feign contentment to your own person. I have often heard that the best mirror one could ever have is the face of a true friend. If this is valid, and I know it is, then the only way to get to know yourself is through someone else, because introspection is always self-biased. This bias is an aspect of human nature, a kind of emotional self-defense. If a person could view himself through another person’s eyes at will, the entire world would be in a state of manic depression. It is the same phenomenon of hearing one’s voice on a tape recorder. People are vain enough about photographs, but imagine the impact of seeing a movie of yourself through a free-thinking human lens capable of focusing on and exaggerating whatever it feels like. Therefore, in order to become acquainted with yourself, one must choose a small number of honest and varied individuals and an intimate relationship must be formed. It must be developed to a point that if a comrade exaggerates or is holding something back, you can...

Should the U.S. get  
Aaron Levine  

Recently, there has been much talk concerning our trade deficit, expected to reach $150 billion this year. The Democrats are talking tough on trade; recently, they proposed a possible 25 percent surcharge from countries, such as Japan, who have large trade surpluses with the U.S. The Republicans are countering the Democrats with their own proposals. The White House is considering asking Congress for $300 million to help U.S. exporters to compete against foreign countries. Does this mean that “free trade” is dead? Has free trade been discredited? Free trade benefits us in that it allows for a wider selection of goods, lower prices through competition, and economic growth. Besides, competition forces us to be more efficient, better than the other guy. This is nice talk; however, we need to take a sobering look at reality. Between 1974 and 1984, for example, the percentage of imports in the U.S. shoe market has jumped from 18 percent to 54 percent. In 1984, 60 percent of our radio/TV market consisted of imports. These are only a window to a large problem. Something ought to be done. Do the protectionists have a point? Free trade is nice, yet it can work only if everybody “plays by the rules.” Does Japan, for example, abide by the pious words of “free trade”? The government subsidizes the domestic machine tool industry, discouraging U.S. imports. How can we compete against this? The Canadian tariff on wire and cable is three times that of the U.S. John Culbertson, economist, states that “free trade” is destroying America’s industrial base and hurting our economic prospects. We are losing jobs and industry to foreigners. How can our highly-paid workers compete with those in the low-wage countries?Sense it from knowledge of his psyche. Honesty is the key because without it we would be at the party with the facades. Small groups, on the other extreme, tend to assist truth because there is nothing to hide behind alcohol or your sexuality. I am not attempting to state that self-actualization is merely a matter of making a few friends. To find yourself, friends must be probed, and their minds must be dissected for relevant information. This requires much effort because frat parties are designed to support the mentality of a state school student who goes to college with ambitions of becoming a bank teller, not the starved minds of the ‘intellectually elite’. Few people enjoy being too opinionated. When someone states an opinion, they are opening themselves to attack from disagreeing views and most people are too self-centered to want to waste time in an argument that doesn’t concern them. Therefore, one’s sources of information have to be devoted and sincere as well as honest. Dialogue is essential in the search and with time and numerous verbalized sentiments, I am confident that you will begin to see yourself as you really are, and with this invaluable knowledge contemplate a future for your new acquaintance, your “self.” This venture must be a group effort involving your family and friends because you are relative to society. You have to judge yourself by some standard, and society calibrates the scale unless of course you are schizophrenic and are relative to yourself. The process of self-discovery is not insured simply by following my formula. In some people, there is nothing to discover. I am sad to admit that I have encountered people who are as superficial as they appear. Other exceptions include people who are of such timid character that they wouldn't even contradict themselves. Never admitting that you are wrong is suicidal to your personality. These people have no identity because their soul lies in their facade. In other words, they are a shell, hollow like an egg with no yolk. This is a dangerous form of existence because if their shell is punctured, it will undoubtedly crumble, because there is nothing inside to support it. This breed has a contrived personality and thrives at the fraternity parties because they are the best actors of us all, capable of reproducing any trend. The telltale to this individual is simply that he is not an individual at all. There will be no consistency to his character and he will appear to be a series of random imitations. Luckily for us, this is a rare breed at Davidson. I do not pretend that the information I have presented is some unique revelation, it is merely observation. I have simply verbalized human nature because everyone of substance eventually finds himself. It is simply a matter of time, and all that I hope to achieve with this article is to expedite the process. I only hope to spark the concern in the reader that he might be wasting his time at Davidson if he considers college a continuous party. College is a person's last chance to achieve direction because you are capable of concentration on yourself alone. The student is buffered from the responsibilities of the outside world, namely economic. When you have to support yourself, and maybe a wife if you lacked that much insight, there is no time to ponder existence with all energy being devoted towards that after-work beer. Therefore, I highly recommend that you answer that recurring question of what it is all about and start preparing yourself for reality, because when college ends, the part is cast and if you get caught in an unnatural role you will be chained to the stage forever.

Aaron Levine is a sophomore from Roanoke, Va.

Perhaps some sort of protectionist policy needs to be put into effect. Only we need to do it wisely. Our government wants the foreigners to open up their markets. Why should they, unless they perceive it as in their best interest? In fact, they might even respect us for adopting policies similar to theirs. I am not advocating “creeping socialism;” government bureaucracy always seems to have a way of fouling things up. Yet, we must be pragmatic. Look at our failing industries, those hard-working Americans who are out of work. Is it in our best interests to let them fall by the wayside? I am not advocating a “welfare state.” What benefit is there to allow the productive to be unproductive? Yet, we ought to help our industries and our workers remain productive. Once we are more productive, with our trade deficit greatly reduced, our need for protectionism reduces. This is no time for either side to be ideological. Free trade is beneficial for growth; protectionism can get us back on our feet; if we can prevent ourselves from going off either end, it all may work out.

Anthony Gristina is a sophomore from Winston-Salem, N.C.

Government Information to You

Information from the Federal Government on subjects ranging from agriculture to zoology is available at Depository libraries across the nation. You can visit these libraries and use the Federal Depository collection without charge. To find one in your area, contact your local Depository library or write to the Federal Depository Library Program, Office of the Public Printer, Washington, DC 20401.