10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor
Kevin Horan, Executive Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Brooke Knight, Managing Editor
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Scott McKinney, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager
Amy Harrell, Circulation Manager

Parking Woes

The Davidson Police Force’s new image may be reassuring for some. The new uniforms and the biweekly security tips column are outward signs of a more conscientious commitment to public safety. Other students in the last few weeks may be frustrated, however, by the stricter enforcement of the parking regulations. Students in search of parking spaces are discovering that convenience means living in Watts and parking in the woods in front of Warner Hall. This leads students to easy rationalizations for illegal parking.

Illegal parking poses problems, however. Cars parked around Patterson Court prevent fire trucks from getting close in case of an emergency. Because they crowd the road they also increase the potential for accidents. According to Davidson Police, there were some near-misses last year. Davidson police officer Ray Thrower recently noted that the number of violations has decreased. Though this is true, it seems that it puts increasing pressure on students to find a parking space.

But what causes the problem? Are more permits being issued than there are spaces? At some larger colleges, the problem can be expensive as well as frustrating. UNCC charges over $50 for a parking permit with no guaranteed space. Davidson Police Chief Jackie Hughes is currently at work on a study to determine the ratio of available spaces to the number of permits issued. So far, the parking lot behind the rappelling tower has remained full. It seems that another area could also be allocated for parking. No formal proposals have been advanced, but student effort, combined with the results of Hughes’ study, could spark action on the part of the College.

Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions articles on any subject of general interest to the community. We adhere to these guidelines:

1) We require that all articles be in our hands at 7 p.m. Monday.
2) We accept typed articles and those written legibly, double-spaced.
3) We require that opinions be signed. We will print unsigned articles only if compelling reason exists for withholding the author’s name, and the author is known to either the editor or executive editor.
4) We will not edit opinions for style or content but we reserve the right to edit for rules of common English. We will inform the author of substantial changes.
5) Since space for Opinions articles is limited, we reserve the right to select articles from those we receive for publication. We will attempt to print any article we withhold from publication for space reasons the next week.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Andy Ball, Richard Cloudt, Keith Finch, Andrea Gross, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, David Williams
Arts and Entertainment Staff: LauraBallenger, Martha Johnson, Matt Morris, Samuel Scott
Sports Staff: Mike Adams, Rand Hartsell, Edwin Page
Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Beth Drummond, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, David Petranick, John Reuter
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Kim Nikles
Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Beth Drummond, Kristin Galloway, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen Keely, Kara Kooken, Kris Kost, Pauline Rhodes, Kim Robertson, David Soud, Margaret White, Ben Yarborough.
Compositor: Ann Roddey

To the Editors:

I entered a six-week work-study internship in Nicaragua with an open mind. I was there from June 18 to July 28 as one of nineteen students who visited under auspices of the Presbyterian Peacemaking Center. Though I did not find Nicaragua’s Sandinista government entirely wholesome and just, neither did I see any evidence of its being a serious ideological or physical threat to the United States. Though both Communists and Christian clergymen hold posts in the Sandinista government, I found the people of Nicaragua are not living under a Marxist-Leninist regime. Over seventy per cent of the land in Nicaragua is now privately owned, and more is being given each year to the peasants who farm it through a government agrarian reform program. People appear able to live and travel where they wish, except where fighting and “Contra” (counter-revolutionary) guerilla raids are active.

I interviewed several people the Sandinista government had moved to resettlement camps. They told me they were unhappy about having to move, but they did feel safer now. They explained that Contra members had kidnapped and killed two people of their village and had later blown up their water pump in the resettlement camp. Talking with Nicaraguan church leaders, Boy Scouts, government officials, soldiers and prisoners, living with a Nicaraguan family, and working on construction of houses for poor people through Habitat for Humanity’s project in the Chinandega Province of Nicaragua, I found that most Nicaraguans support the government. Many openly criticize it. My observations did not provide credibility for the claim that “Contra” groups are fighting communism. In some instances, they appear dedicated to hurting people and confiscating their possessions.

Nicaraguan government officials and citizens appeared fiercely opposed to being controlled by the U.S., the U.S.S.R., or any outside government, though they appear to need and be willing to accept aid from any source that will grant aid to their war-torn and economically depressed country. I looked for evidence of military materials being exported. My limited observations did not reveal even a possibility of substantial arms or military aid being exported from Nicaragua to other Latin American operations at this time. I therefore believe that some misinformation is involved in the justification of our government’s giving aid to the Contra groups.

So, I urge my fellow American citizens to ask their Congressmen to support the Boland Amendment which is before the House now. The Boland Amendment, which runs out September 30, was passed by Congress in 1984 to stop the CIA from secretly giving guns, ammunition, etc., to the Contra. If the Boland Amendment does not pass again, our CIA will once again be free to give weapons of war directly to the Contra. But as the Nicaraguan people told me time and again, “Please, tell your people, we want the peace.”

C. Lanford Smith

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere to these four guidelines:
1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2) We require that letters be neatly typed.
3) We require that letters be signed and include the author's phone number and address. If you have a compelling reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.
4) We reserve the right not to print letters that:
   a) function as advertisements.
   b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes.
   c) represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed on the same topic.