Opinions

The Davidsonian

Friday, April 26, 1985

RACE Sends Anti-Apartheid Petition To Reagan

Mike Stephens

Last quarter the Davidson RACE committee circulated a petition concerning the present Apartheid policies in South Africa. The petition received much support and attention and read as follows:

We the undersigned students, faculty, administrators, and staff of Davidson College strongly condemn apartheid in South Africa. We urge the current administration of the government of the United States to take immediate steps to ensure that the government of the Republic of South Africa makes genuine and measurable progress toward the elimination of apartheid.

810 persons signed the petition, representing a sizable portion of the Davidson staff and student body.

Attached to the petition was a cover letter written by Andrew Yon which was not available for inspection at the time the petition was circulated. Below, with the permission of Mr. Yon, appears the entire cover letter accompanying the petition in the form sent to President Reagan.

Dear President Reagan,

I am the chairperson of R.A.C.E. (Racial Attitudes Concerning Everyone) Committee at Davidson College in North Carolina. The committee was developed to address the problem of racism in this liberal arts institution. While most of our activities are designed to facilitate better race relations here at Davidson, we are sensitive to racial problems outside of our own campus.

Recently, a great deal of attention has been given to the situation in South Africa. With the enclosed petition, we members of the Davidson College community are adding our voices to the universal cry of protest against the injustices in South Africa. It is our opinion that the policies of your administration do not adequately address the apartheid problem. “Quiet diplomacy” and “constructive engagement” appear to be very quiet and not very constructive. Here are some possible alternative policies offered by a member of the Davidson faculty, Dr. Clark G. Ross:

1) All U.S. corporations operating in South Africa must sign and abide by the recently strengthened Sullivan Principles.

2) U.S. corporations investing in or in partnership with South African corporations may do so only if the South African corporations abide by the Sullivan Principles.

3) U.S. corporations should actively encourage and support an independent black trade union movement in South Africa.

4) U.S. corporations should devote some portion of their profit from activity in South Africa to socially responsible investment in black areas. These investments could include education and health-care facilities.

5) The U.S. should continue to ban the export of military equipment, computer equipment, and other goods potentially detrimental to the standard of living of blacks.

6) Cease intelligence cooperation with the South African government.

Although we lack the political and economic expertise to advocate any particular policy toward South Africa, we are certain that the United States can make a more positive contribution than it is now making toward the eventual elimination of apartheid. Since South Africa is an “ally” of the United States, and since we benefit both politically and economically from our relationship with them, we strongly believe that the United States has a moral obligation to ensure that non-white South Africans enjoy their inalienable rights to political and economic opportunity and justice.

Davidson College has been a launching pad for many highly influential corporate, political, and religious leaders, including the recently elected Republican Governor of North Carolina, Jim Martin. This institution produces enlightened and successful scholars. The enclosed petition represents what we believe to be an enlightened opinion which we hope will be considered seriously by you and your administration. Thank you for your time and attention.

Sincerely,
Andrew Yon
R.A.C.E. Chairperson

Stephens is a sophomore from Marietta, GA and is opinions editor emeritus of The Davidsonian.

IBM Works To Solve Apartheid

Tim Brown

Recently in the media, the opinion has been gaining favor: an American business should not do business in South Africa which supports apartheid, a policy of segregation and political and economic discrimination against non-European groups. I stand in disagreement to this opinion. I shall use an American corporation, IBM, as an example of how an American business can serve to help greatly blacks in South Africa. I wish to point out that IBM could depart from South Africa with little cost. John F. Akers, president and chief executive officer of IBM, states, “Less than one percent of IBM’s revenues come from South Africa.” Like most American firms, IBM combats segregation by promoting a nonsegregated working environment. IBM combats political and economic discrimination by offering equal pay for equal work and by increasing the recruitment of blacks, especially for managerial positions. IBM serves to help South Africa not only at the business level, but also at the grassroots level in the community. IBM has directed its efforts to improving the education system. It has donated to community schools, video recorders, textbooks, and the teaching abilities of its employees. It also funds three training colleges founded specifically for the development of black teachers.

Brown is a freshman from Charlotte, NC and is opinions editor of The Davidsonian.

Keep up with events at Davidson—News, Sports, and campus life.

Subscribe now and get 28 issues of The Davidsonian for just $12.