Friday, April 26, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Pass/Fail Grades To Appear On Transcript
By JEFF LESESNE

The Faculty Committee on Physical Education decided that passing and failing grades in PE will become a permanent part of
the students’ transcripts starting in the fall. Director of Physical Education and Intramurals Sterling Martin said, “This was done at
the request of this office and the registrar’s office.”

According to Martin, one reason for the decision was to stop students from signing up for a PE course and
then overcutting. When students do not attend the required number of classes, usually 75 percent, they receive a failing grade.
Referring to failures, Martin said, “The only reason, for the most part, is overcutting.”

A PE department study shows that in the winter term of 83-84 there were 666 registrations for PE classes. Out
of these, 287 were passes and 360 were failures. 91 percent of these failures were from students not showing up.
In the spring of 83-84 and fall of 84-85 PE grades appeared on the report cards. The data for this
winter show that 457 passing grades and 181 failing grades were issued. Martin said, “Obviously there was a change in
attitude.” Because due notice was not given, PE failures for these terms have since been removed from transcripts. The grades
will begin to appear on the transcripts in the fall of the 85-86 school year and will remain thereafter.

The second reason, according to Martin, for allowing PE grades to be on the transcripts is to end confusion in
the registrar’s office. PE grades are recorded on a grade report sheet to give students credit for passing a PE
class. This recording automatically puts the grades on the student’s report card and transcript. The registrar, therefore, has to remove
the PE grades manually every time someone needs a transcript, and this causes confusion.

Martin and the Faculty Committee feel it is the student's responsibility to drop undesired PE classes from their schedules. He
said, “The record a student generates should be permanent.” According to Martin, no person should fail a PE. The drop
period for PE’s has been extended to two weeks. In case of an injury or sickness, the student may get
an authorized withdrawal. There is also a medical excuse for those who cannot participate. Martin feels, “This is a fairly
painless requirement.” The committee reduced the requirement from five to four credits and moved the deadline from senior year to
sophomore year to end confusion at graduation.

Martin suggested at an SGA meeting that a brochure be made to inform faculty advisors and students of the requirements
in the PE area and also in each PE class. The plans have not been worked out but Martin believes
it would help end much of the confusion and rumors spread about the PE requirements. Martin also said he is
willing to help anyone who has any questions or problems. He welcomes students to come to the PE office and
check on their records, and he urged them not to wait until the last minute to do so.

Director of Physical Education, Sterling Martin

Grigsby Speaks On Institutionalized Sexism/Racism
By ANDREA DIEDRICH

Sociology Professor Janet Grigsby spoke on sexism, racism, and violence as part of Peace Week. Grigsby’s talk centered on sexism
and violence with an emphasis on the problem of wife battering. Grigsby explained that prejudiced attitudes are not limited to
the individual; social structures are just as influential in discriminatory practices whether they intend to be or not. She gave
several examples of this unintentional “institutionalized racism and sexism” at Davidson. One example is that fewer black students are accepted
at Davidson than white students because the strongest recruitment of students occurs at high schools that have traditionally sent students
to Davidson. These schools are primarily white schools. An example of institutionalized sexism Grigsby suggested is the allocation of funds
within the athletic department. Men’s sports have traditionally drawn the greatest audiences and, because most Davidson alumni are men, they
also draw the greatest alumni support. For these reasons, men’s sports receive more financial support than women’s sports. As Grigsby
pointed out, both of these practices seem very rational but are still founded on prejudice.

Grigsby explained that there is no substantial evidence that sexism is the cause of wife battering, but she believes that
the problem can be understood through the concepts of power and domination and sex-role attitudes. In traditional terms, men have
more power than women. Grigsby believes, “This results from women’s exclusion from direct access to economic resources.” She believes, “Men
resort to vio-lence when they don’t have access to other methods of power (for example when a man loses his
job).” In situations where the men do wield a great deal of power, Grigsby believes if violence does occur it
is likely that it will continue because the man maintains so much control over the woman.

Grigsby believes that sex role attitudes contribute to the problem of wife battering. She said, “Traditional sex role attitudes involve
the idea that women are the property of their husbands.” Certain widespread norms also contribute to the problem. Grigsby said
that many people believe “being hit turns women on” and “women intentionally provoke men to violence and then blame them.”
She also explained that many women believe so strongly that “marriage is for keeps” that violence in a marriage often
goes unstopped.

Grigsby also believes that some institutional processes support violence such as wife battering. She said, “That aspect is the most
distressing part of analyzing wife battering for me. The very organizations that are designed to assist women with the problem
end up continuing the problem or initiating it.”

Class Of 1985 Subsidizes Minority Scholarship
By NELLE McCORKLE

The Senior Class Gift Committee has collected $48,000 thus far in its campaign to establish an endowment for minority scholarships,
according to Gift Committee Co-Chairperson Martha Nelson. Nelson, co-chair with Shep Robinson, said the pledges received came from 196 seniors,
adding that the campaign is not over, with 100 students yet to be solicited. The class intends to raise $65,000
over a five-year period.

The endowment will provide a renewable, four-year scholarship to one minority student in each entering freshman class, worth $600 annually.
Based on both need and merit, the scholarship seeks “outstanding students who will contribute to campus life,” according to the
Gift Committee brochure. Minority, for the purposes of the scholarship selection, is defined by the brochure as including “anyone from
a racial or ethnic background not in the majority at Davidson.” Students selected must maintain a minimum 2.5 grade average
to continue receiving the scholarship. According to the regulations established by the endowment, a committee composed of faculty members, administrators,
and a student scholarship recipient will aid the Faculty Committee on Admissions and Financial Aid in selecting the scholarship winners.

The class of 1985 chose the minority scholarship program as its senior gift project by a class vote. Of this
selection, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid John Griffith commented: “There is no greater gift alumni can give the next
generation of students than the financial possibility of obtaining a Davidson education. In order for Davidson to continue its mission
of serving all qualified students without regard to their financial circumstances and to enhance our efforts to serve students from
diverse racial/ethnic groups, it is essential that scholarship funds, both need and merit based, be a priority of alumni giving.
I am delighted by the commitment the Class of 1985 has made to addressing these needs.”

To obtain the scholarship money, the solicitation process involves individual visits to seniors by members of their class, trained at
an orientation session in obtaining pledges. Eighty brokers from the Class of 1985 were each assigned about three seniors, according
to Gift Committee member Susie Myers. The Gift Committee itself is comprised of twelve members, almost all of whom are
also brokers, Myers said. Members of the Gift Committee are: Blake Carpenter, Walker Douglas, David Gaffney, Warren Gould, Tony Holt,
Susie Myers, Martha Nelson, Ellen Papadeas, Shep Robinson, Meg Surratt, Mike Wilkinson, Atondra Williams.

Cissi Fulenwider, assistant director of alumni relations and a major administrative contact for the project for the past three years,
said, “The Class of ‘85 so far has been tremendously successful” in obtaining its current 61 percent participation rate. Citing
other colleges’ average 30 percent participation rate, Fulenwider added, “With so many people involved, {the class} will probably have a
higher pay rate than the donor rate.”

Recent past class gifts have endowed a general scholarship fund (Class of 1983) and a scholarship fund for Davidson students
studying abroad (Class of 1984). Of the gift plans for 1985, College President John Kuykendall commented, “Every student who comes
to Davidson College is influenced, directly or indirectly, by the way in which we make use of our scholarship dollars.
Many of us have been able to augment our own resources by the assistance that the college provides. Many others
among us have had our lives enriched by fellow students who might otherwise have been unable to afford a Davidson
education.”
