Friday, May 3, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Marks Wins Vereen Bell Writing Award
By LEE WHITE

Senior John Marks is this year’s winner of the Vereen Bell Memorial Award. This award is presented each year at
Spring Convocation for the best piece of creative writing by a Davidson upperclassman. Marks won the award for three short
stories, “The Stanza of Fenris Callibeauf,” “A Fierce Bad Day,” and “Dust Country.” Marks said about his work, “There is
a sense of the unreal, the macabre.” He noted that isolation, fragmentation, and disorientation are also themes in his writing.

His short story “A Fierce Bad Day” put Marks in the final competition for the fiction prize this winter at
the Hollins Literary Festival. Other than this contest, Marks has not submitted his writings to contests or publications other than
Hobart Park and The Miscellany. “I never got to the point [where] I felt it was strong enough,” he said.

It was JYA in Marburg, according to Marks, which really “opened up the floodgates” for his writing. The environment, he
said, “freed the imagination to move here and there, to speculate.” Marburg was a place where there were students from
all over the world; where history, from the cathedrals to the philosophy of Nietzsche, was at his fingertips, he added.

Marks said that there are problems in writing at Davidson. He felt there is little encouragement for purely creative writing.
“It’s almost something you have to sneak after midnight, like junk food.” Davidson's atmosphere does not encourage creativity, according to
Marks. He said that he felt the emphasis on being well-rounded is fine, to a point, but people should also
be able to focus their creative energies.

Marks has excelled at Davidson in both creative writing and acting. At Spring Convocation he also received a Theatre Department
award for his contributions to theatre at Davidson. Asked to comment on the similarities between the two, he said that
in both of them, “I am hiding in my own or someone else's words, trying to generate life beyond them.”

Next year Marks plans to go to India to work with a rural development organization. “I want to put a
halt to things; figure out what I want to do,” he said. He will not have much chance to pursue
his creative writing, he said. However, he expects the experience will prove valuable to his writing. He thinks that the
chance to experience in India a living mythological religion and to work where there is suffering will be particularly important.

Marks said that he has written since third grade. His first interest was fantasy literature, especially Tolkien’s Lord of the
Rings trilogy. Writers whose work has been especially attractive to Marks are Sam Shepard, Thomas Hardy, and Gabriel Garcia Marquez.
He said that he especially admired Marquez’s ability to take something or somebody that could conceivably exist on our planet
and “submerge them into a magical universe.” He also said that he sees in Shepard a sense of the West,
the contradiction of being trapped while in huge open spaces.

The Vereen Bell Memorial Award was judged by poet Dabney Stuart. The other winners were:
Second Place—Lauren Smith, for a children's story, “Clarence Humphrey the Elephant” and four poems, “Oh, I am the Moon,” “Straightway
From God,” “International Women,” and “Failing in Falling Inward.”
Third Place—Tim Waples, for three stories, “The Court,” “On the Route,” and “Morning Delivery.”
Honorable Mention—Alva Moore, Roxanna Guilford.

The R. Windley Hall Writing Award is presented to freshmen. The winners of this competition, also judged by Dabney Stuart,
were:
First Place—a tie—Heidi Hooker, for “Spirits Rotate to the Tunes of a Carousel” and John Allen Smith, for “Cement and
Gravel,” a collection of narrative poems.
Third Place—Glen Fogle, for “To Sarah: A Daydream,” a collection of poems.

APPAREL for the College Man
Dress wear
Sportswear
Active wear
Leisure wear and Interview Wear!
By Haspel and Botany 500
Berle and Gant
Sero and Munsingwear
Canterbury and Woolrich
Bass and Bostonian
Levi’s and Haggar
Downtown Mooresville
Only 6 miles North

ATC Proposal (continued fromPage 1) This year’s $5,500 SGA budget. Miano said $250 of this reduction corresponds to the planned
increase in funding from the Admissions Office for the co-sponsored SGA/Admissions Office Admissions Weekend for prospective students. Included in the
ATC budget for the first time since 1981-82, the Residence Hall Council (RHC) received $500. The RHC, described by Miano
as "a lobbying group to present student concerns to the Housing Office," consists of dorm senators. Club Sports received a
$1,600 budget increase from its 1984-85 figure of $6,000, making its 1985-86 allotment $7,600. Miano justified the increase as paralleling
a 30 percent increase in student participation in non-varsity sports.

"I'm a little disappointed that a student-funding organization is not supporting a totally student service, specifically designed for helping students,
any more than it is," said RAPE Committee head Melissa McLemore. McLemore’s organization requested $3,287 and received $230. "The money
the service did receive will be very helpful in starting some new student services for next year," McLemore added. She
cited a telephone hotline and the establishment of educational services and a Rape/Crisis Center.

Theft Rate Rises In April
By JOHN GATHINGS

The number of campus thefts last month is more than the total for the year, according to Public Safety Chief
Jackie Hughes. "There are more thefts on campus during the big weekends," he said. "A lot of people come in,
it’s the same way during the big track meets... a lot of strangers come on campus." The majority of larcenies
in April came in a single sweep of thefts from the gym during a baseball game. Roy Vilardi, Robert Zimmerman,
David Lloyd, Dan Diamonds, Tim Waters, Kenneth Bogert, and Robert Rupp reported their wallets stolen from the gym locker room
on April 20. Stephen Bradley lost $75 worth of items from his car in the parking lot at the baseball
field.

On April 3, Ed Hay reported his ten-speed bicycle had been stolen from the bicycle rack behind Watts dormitory. It
was recovered from the basement of Belk; no one was charged in the incident. On April 6, Emil Cekada reported
that he had locked his locker and returned to find the lock removed and his credit cards, keys, wallet, cash,
and a class ring gone. William Sargent left his room in Watts, returned an hour later, and found his wallet,
ID, checks, and credit cards were missing. Tim Waples left his Sentelle room to take a shower and returned to
find his trousers, wallet, some cash, and his credit card missing. Both incidents occurred on April 6.

Sloan McAlister reported that she had left her pocketbook in her Irwin room while she was at lunch and returned
to find it, with $15 in cash, missing on April 9. On April 8, a citation book holder was taken
from a police scooter. Also, James Kelly reported the theft of his wallet from his Sentelle room. On April 22,
Richard Link reported the theft of his wallet, cash, credit cards, and driver's license from his Sentelle room. Pamela Wright
reported that someone entered her Richardson room and took approximately $170 worth of jewelry. Sentelle resident Robert Kromer reported the
theft of his wallet, credit cards, and driver's license. Melissa Jones left her wallet in her knapsack outside of a
classroom on the second floor of Chambers on April 25. Later, she discovered that her wallet was missing along with
some cash, her driver's license, and credit cards. Her wallet was later returned to the Union Desk where she recovered
it. However, the cash was missing.

Also on April 25, Ann Belanger returned to her room and found it locked. Remembering that she had left it
unlocked, she went to the window just as the shade was pulled. By the time she got back, the door
was open and a 35 mm camera, a zoom lens, and $500 worth of jewelry was missing. Hughes noted that
most of the incidents occurred in rooms that were left unlocked.

Local 128 S. Main St. Davidson, N.C. Pottery Mother's Day Gifts. Trissy Lomax, owner 28036 892-7521 and other
