Arts & Entertainment

Grosch Exhibit Is A Celebration Of Life

By DR. FRANK BLISS
Special to The Davidsonian

During one of the many times I have visited Laura Grosch’s show in Chambers Gallery I said to myself, “If I review these marvelous acrylics I will not use any of the terms you so often read and hear when an experience of art is put into words.” Something like that, anyway, suggests what I said to myself. And then I felt as if my eyes were actually feasting, as they moved from one image to another, and on to another, lingering over each one. I thought that each acrylic—especially the later ones, from the early ’80s into this year—is dynamic: vigorous, full of energy, forceful. Looking again at one of my favorites, Eden Now: Marigolds and Monarchs (1984), I delighted in the bold colors and remembered the brave works of Georgia O’Keeffe. And then I thought of how much is abstracted from the flower, or butterfly, in its natural environment when its image is created on canvas or on paper (of the nine works in the Gallery, Cactus is on paper; the other eight are on canvas). I thought about how fine it is to be able to look long and closely in a comfortable, air-conditioned room at unchanging images from the natural world. Such works as Laura Grosch’s enable you to see much more perceptively when you return to the outdoors, especially at this time of year, when the fullness of spring is almost with us.

Laura Grosch’s show is a delight; it is a joyous celebration of life, of living, of the vibrant colors, the patterns, the vitality of our world. Look at the oranges, the yellows, the reds, the greens. Look at the different backgrounds and see how each is appropriate to the dominant form or pattern. Become aware of Laura’s development; notice how different the acrylic from the late '60s (White Daffodil Diptych, 1969) is from those of the ’80s, such as Eden Now: Poinsettias and Tiger Swallowtails, 1985. Stand toward the front of the Gallery, in the middle of the room, and look at all nine acrylics; let your eyes flow from one harmony to another, from Cactus through Zinnias, to the Poinsettias and Tiger Swallowtails again.

Celebrating Bach's 300th Birthday

Welsh Presents ‘The Catechism’ At Spring Vespers Concert

By BILL BUGG

Davidson College music professor Wilmer Welsh performed Bach's “The Catechism” at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church for Sunday evening's Vesper Concert. Commemorating Johann Sebastian Bach on the 300th anniversary of his birth, Welsh played the organ masterpiece with great discipline and expressiveness.

“The Catechism” consists of various preludes and other hymns for the organ. Modeled after six of Luther's chorales on the articles of faith in his Catechisms, the giant work is divided into two settings, one large and one small for each chorale. Bach preceded the six chorales with two sections of preludes, the Kyrie and the Gloria, both of which consist of large and small settings. He then framed the work with his Prelude and Fugue in E-flat Major. Welsh performed the large and small settings on two different organs. In an interview, Welsh stated that the smaller organ provides an intimate, introspective answer to the larger, more majestic-sounding organ. “The two instruments carry across... the dual nature of the work,” he said, and added that two organs provide more variety.

Throughout the organ masterpiece, special motives symbolize doctrines of faith. The opening prelude, an extended French overture, sets the stage for worship of God in what some Bach scholars call the majesty motive. Welsh illuminated the motive with great expression. The next selection, the Kyrie, is divided into three large settings and three small settings. The large setting is the first of a series of references to the Trinity. Not only is the setting broken into three parts symbolizing the Trinitarian doctrine “One in three and three in one,” but the climax of each part contains three voices, the top representing the Father, the middle the Son, and the bottom the Holy Ghost. The Gloria is broken into three sections for the same symbolic reason. The first setting is a small organ motet of three voices.Then walk up close to look at the details, the techniques used, and to drink in the colors. I used harmony above deliberately. Her works aren't just pleasing arrangements; Grosch's images sing. They sing in the sense that they are expressions of joy, joyous responses to natural shapes and tones and colors and textures and patterns, joyous creations of shapes and tones and colors.

The first of Bach's renditions of the six Lutheran chorales is the Decalogue, “These Are the Holy Ten Commands.” The tune, divided into five sections, is repeated twice, symbolizing the Ten Commandments. The second of the Lutheran Chorales, the Creed, is a fugue of three voices. The ostinato appears seven times at the bottom of the texture, perhaps representing each article of faith in the Nicene Creed. The ostinato includes Bach's faith motive, a series of ascending leaps and fallbacks depicting the human struggle of reaching up to God only to fall back into sin.

The third of the six chorales is the Lord's Prayer. The large setting contains Bach's grief motive, a sighing Lombard rhythm which painfully cries out, “Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.” The small setting includes an alternation of ascending bass and descending treble patterns, symbolizing God's reaching down to man as man prays to him through the Lord's prayer. The Baptism, the fourth Lutheran choral, paints a symbolic picture of a flowing river through repetition of rapid scale passages. The fifth chorale, Confession and Absolution, intensifies Luther's original melody of anguish by adding counterpoint of six voices. The final chorale, the Holy Communion, contains Bach's faith motive, man reaching up to God, and an inversion, God reaching down to man, thus symbolizing the dual nature of the sacrament of communion. The closing fugue is composed of three fugues united by the hymn tune, St. Anne. The majestic conclusion summarizes the symbolic nature of the entire organ masterpiece with its final depiction through form and meter of the Trinity.

Welsh handled the symbolic motives with great intensity on the large organ and with an introspective clarity on the small organ. His rigorous and disciplined playing is one reason he is lauded as an organist. Born in Cincinnati, Ohio in 1932, Welsh received a Bachelor of Science degree from Johns Hopkins University, and Bachelor and Master of Music degrees from Peabody Conservatory of Music. Church music has played an integral role in Welsh’s career. Since he began singing in a men and boy's choir at the age of eight, he has been a chorister, organist, composer, and teacher. A member of the Davidson College faculty since 1963, he is now music department chairman and college organist. Known both as an organist and as a composer, he has given organ recitals in many parts of the country, and his music has been performed throughout the United States. His compositions include four oratorios, two operas, two concertos, a symphony, chamber music, and many works for the organ.

Laura Grosch led a talk in the Chambers Gallery last Thursday to discuss her works. Here, she poses in front of one of her giant, colorful poinsettias. Look again at the different backgrounds in the different works; compare White Daffodil Diptych and Cymbidium Orchids to Sha. Look at the uses of contrast, and of negative space; look at the images, the forms. These are works to be viewed again and again, to be lived with, works to delight in and to be grateful for. As I visited Chambers Gallery one last time before writing this review, I realized that I would have to use the words I was used to hearing and to reading, for among them are the words we use when we write about what moves us to respond, touches us most deeply, and leads us to contemplation and even to activity. They are words we use when we think about extraordinarily successful works of art, works which build and bond community. Such are Laura Grosch's nine acrylics in Chambers Gallery. Visit the Gallery, see for yourself, how wonderful they are.