Opinions

Comparable Worth: An Inane Notion
Keith Finch

“Equal pay for equal value.” It sounds like a splendid idea. And that’s exactly why so much furor has erupted over the notion of “comparable worth,” particularly since last week’s decision by a Federal Appeals Court to overturn the nation’s first ruling in favor of the idea. The ruling affects some 15,500 employees of the state of Washington, mostly women, who had been declared eligible for a total of more than $1 billion in back pay as the result of a 1983 Federal District decision.

In that earlier decision, Federal Judge Jack Tanner ruled that Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act “... was designed to bar not only overt employment discrimination, but also practices that are fair in form but discriminatory in operation,” among which he included the state’s failure to provide equal pay for work of equivalent worth. His ruling generated considerable enthusiasm among women’s organizations, just as last week’s ruling generated considerable vehemence. Eleanor Smeal, president of the National Organization for Women, exclaimed that her group would “raise hell” over the decision. Gerald McEntee, president of the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), the organization that brought the suit, lambasted the presiding Judge, Anthony Kennedy, while praising comparable worth as “pay equity for working women.” For opponents of comparable worth, the ruling was a victory; Jerry Jasinowski, executive vice president of the National Association of Manufacturers, stated that “you cannot ignore the marketplace when deciding how much to pay an employee who holds a certain job.”

Support for the idea of comparable worth has come to be expected of anyone purporting to sympathize with the American working woman. After Tanner handed down his 1983 decision, Walter Mondale, Alan Cranston, and John Glenn all jumped on the comparable worth bandwagon while Gary Hart actually visited Jack Tanner to congratulate him on his decision. Proponents of the notion of comparable worth rightly recognize that working women earn only 62 cents for every dollar earned by men, and that this is no longer due to the fact that women receive less money for holding the same jobs as their male counterparts. The real problem, they say, is due to the fact that women in jobs traditionally held by women — nurses, secretaries, stenographers, librarians, and so on — make less money than men who hold jobs requiring the same degrees of intelligence, skill, and responsibility. Their solution? Laws requiring equal pay for persons holding jobs of equal worth. And the idea makes sense; after all, why shouldn’t a female librarian with a Master’s degree and responsibility for managing a library make as much as a Teamster who hauls the ‘parts’ for Chicken McNuggets? But when it comes to the question of actually putting their ideas into practice, those who support comparable worth seem to conveniently ignore the almost insurmountable barriers that their ideas will encounter. Politicians use the proposal to show their support for women’s issues and to garner the support of women’s groups, but leave the details — like deciding who is worth what, and how you determine if a lawyer is worth more than an opera singer — to somebody else. Upon closer examination, therefore, it becomes apparent that comparable worth is a principle that would prove not merely inadequate, but dangerously destructive. It is an idea that should be rejected by liberals, conservatives, and moderates alike in favor of a more practical proposal.

The dispute over comparable worth in Washington state developed as a result of a 1973 study commissioned by the state government to determine if the state was paying women as much as it was paying men at a comparable level of skill and responsibility. The study discovered that women were being paid some 20 percent less than men to work at jobs requiring the same levels of “worth.” For instance, laundry workers, who were mostly women, were found to be making 41 percent less than truck drivers, who were mostly men, and who were considered to be of equal worth. The study was conducted by Norman D. Willis and Associates using a “point-factor job evaluation system” which employs mathematics to measure qualities which most of us would probably find rather difficult to quantify. Willis measured four aspects of each job: “knowledge and skills,” “mental demands,” “accountability,” and “working conditions,” and divided each of these categories into four or five sub-categories. Each type of position then received a numerical rating, from 97 for a truck driver or secretary and 106 for a clerk-typist, to 321 for a corporate lawyer and 463 for a federal judge. Based upon this system, made public in 1976, the AFSCME decided that its workers had been cheated out of more than $1 billion through wage discrimination and filed suit against the state of Washington. And in 1983 they won their case.

Not surprisingly, the decision was criticized by none other than Norman Willis, who was shocked at the prospect that his purely subjective method of measuring “worth” might soon be written into law. Willis’ reaction is understandable. His was an in-house study, intended to help Washington solve its own internal problems. He realizes that it is virtually impossible for anyone to objectively determine the relative “worth” of an occupation, and that an attempt to use such a system as his as a tool to combat discrimination would be hopeless at best, and harmful at worst. Supporters of the idea of comparable worth claim that it is possible to tell whether a ditch-digger is worth more than a bureaucrat, when such questions have vexed philosophers for centuries and can only truly be resolved in the marketplace. Who is to say whether our “worth” scales should consider, say, four kinds of “mental demands,” or two, or thirty? Should a worker in Los Angeles receive better pay than someone in Boulder because he has to work in the smog?And is any lawyer, even the worst lawyer in the world, still worth more than, say, the best welder in the world? Comparable worth cannot help but fail because there are so many factors to be considered. It will allow Betty, waitress at the Waffle House, to sue her boss because she receives less than a waiter at the Davidson. 

Lacks ‘Real’ Democracy
David Williams

In my two years at Davidson College, I have become increasingly puzzled by the lack of real democracy on this supposedly all-American campus. With the advent of the upcoming SGA elections, this problem has crossed my mind quite a few times lately. It seems that no matter whom we elect to whatever post at Davidson College, be it Honor Council Representative or SGA President, almost never is a student-voter provided the opportunity to hear the candidate speak about his qualifications as a candidate or his plans for his position if he wins an election. Rarely is a student-voter even given the opportunity to recognize the face of a candidate for an office. It seems that only through 8” by 11” paper signs pasted on dormitory bathroom stalls is one made aware that a candidate is even running for an office. 

As a result of this absence of campaign speeches, student-voters are left with virtually nothing to choose from but a list of unfamiliar names. The lack of candidate-awareness leaves the average student with only the choice of either randomly choosing a candidate for office or skipping the voting booths altogether. In many cases, the latter choice is the preferred one. Are we intelligent Davidson students going to continuously tolerate this absence of real democracy at Davidson? I hope not! I propose that for the sake of democracy at Davidson that at least the candidates for President and Vice-President of the Student Government and the Honor Council be required to give mandatory speeches which the entire student body can attend. Surely this additional requirement would not pose an unfeasibly heavy burden on the school or the candidates for the most important positions in the Student Government and Honor Council. In this way, at least partial democracy could exist in some form at Davidson.

Chez Paul. It will allow Joe at the Burger King to claim the same salary as Steve at the Pizza Inn. Newspaper boys might be able to claim the same salaries as Postmen. To put it simply, lawyers would get rich, very rich. And elsewhere, disparities in salaries would still exist. More than anything else, though, the idea of comparable worth threatens to wreak havoc on the flexibility that makes our economy so resilient to change and hard times. Consider this: Willis’ study gave the job of a Weyerhauser personnel manager a rating of 916 and that of a pulp mill superintendent 760, but Weyerhauser pays its pulp mill superintendents more, because good ones are hard to find. If comparable worth were forced upon Weyerhauser, it would either have to pay the pulp mill superintendent less, making good ones even harder to find, or it would have to pay the personnel manager more. Either way, it would be operating less efficiently — paying more money to get the same job done, or paying less and hurting the quality and quantity of its production. Changes in the supply of pulp mill managers (or stewardesses, or sheriffs, or ditch-diggers) could change within weeks of any re-evaluation of “worth,” and this would make for even more inefficiency, more waste, more hardship. And what if I'm a better ditch-digger than Joe? Will the foreman have to raise everyone's salary to raise mine and face a lawsuit if he doesn't? He might. And why? Just because of what has been called, and rightly so, “a cockamamie idea.” So let’s solve the problem of sex discrimination in a different way. Use existing laws to combat standard sex discrimination. Educate women on the prospects awaiting them in male-dominated jobs, and break down the barriers between them and those jobs. Combat the deep-seated prejudices that funnel women into their traditional occupations. These are the ways to fight sexism in the workplace. Let’s do something, for there is a problem out there. But let’s not even consider embarking on this insane charade called “comparable worth.”

Fans’ Addiction
Tim Brown

Hitherto, seven main league baseball players have acknowledged using either cocaine or amphetamines; others (numbering twenty) have been charged. A Cincinnati outfielder, David Parker, said in earnest, “Snorting coke was a ‘sort of in thing to do’ in 1979,” the year his Pittsburgh Pirates grappled for their last World Series. But soon we shall lose remembrance of this stigma, as we have lost mind of Curtis Strong, the Philadelphia catcher accused of selling cocaine to players, a man forgotten except at his own trial. The fact brings me pleasure, that Judge Cohill, who is presiding over Curtis Strong's case, has a strong love for his flowers, especially his roses, but not for Pete Roses and their likes. Writes Bob Minzesheiner: “Strike out and we boo. But as fans, we learn to forgive.” Case in point, Keith Hernandez, having testified about his use of cocaine two days prior to the game, comes to bat for the New York Mets and receives a standing ovation. “As fans, we learn to wait till next year, to believe in something despite all evidence to the contrary.” The San Diego Padres surrendered the second baseman Alan Wiggins — after he checked in at a drug rehabilitation center for a second sight-seeing tour. True — San Diego might have believed in Alan Wiggins despite all evidence to the contrary, but only once. “If baseball has survived the owners’ greed, it can outlive the players’ stupidity.” All of this allowing me to form easily the opinion, that we, the fans, are the ones who are in reality truly addicted.