2 Friday, January 18, 1985/The Davidsonian

Two Profs Receive NEH Grants

History Professor Peter Krentz and Philosophy Professor Alfred Mele have been awarded “Fellowships for College Professors” from the National Endowment
for the Humanities (NEH). Both professors will use their year-long grants, which are reserved for professors teaching at schools that
do not have graduate programs, to work on books in their fields of study.

Krentz will use his grant to fund a year of research at the American School of Classical Studies in Athens,
Greece, where he will begin a commentary on Xenophon’s Hellenica. Xenophon, a Greek soldier and author who lived from 431
to 335 B.C., is the only author of the period whose work survives intact. Hellenica, which has been described as
“unreliable, tendentious, dishonest, dreary to read, and rarely illuminating,” is the major source for modern accounts of Greece between 411
and 362 B.C., and Krentz believes the text needs clarification and re-evaluation. During his fellowship year, which will run from
Sept. 1985 through August 1986, Krentz plans to complete the commentary’s introduction and chapters dealing with the Peloponnesian War.

Mele will spend his fellowship year in Davidson completing his book Weakness of Will and Self Deception. The book, which
is planned in ten chapters, will attempt to explain irrational human behavior. Mele plans to put forward in the book
a theory that deals with beliefs as well as actions and addresses the implications of incontinence for moral responsibility, practical
reasoning, and decision theory.

Panel Discusses National Security Issues

The U.S. Army War College Current Affairs Panel will visit Davidson Tuesday for informal and panel discussions. The panel was
established to encourage a dialogue concerning national security matters of current mutual interest to the Army War College and the
civilian academic community. As current defense issues are identified, the discussions usually develop around such topics as national strategy, military
posture, and global and regional interests.

Tuesday morning, panel members will visit classes. At 4 p.m. at the Center for Special Studies, they will have an
informal discussion with members of Amnesty International, Nuclear Awareness Committee, Peace Coalition, and any other interested people. At 6 p.m.,
those who have signed up will eat dinner with the panel in the DuPont Room of Vail Commons. The cost
is $5.50. Following dinner, at 7:30, the group will conduct a panel discussion in the 900 Room. A reception will
be held afterwards in the Morrison Room. The activities are sponsored by the Center for Special Studies and Scabbard and
Blade.

Committee Narrows Senior Class Gift Options

The Senior Class Gift Committee has narrowed gift proposals to four and will eliminate one more before the senior class
vote. The first proposal deals with the establishment of a permanently endowed book fund for the E. H. Little Library.
The interest from the endowment would be used to purchase books each year. This fund could reach a sizable amount
in five years and be a significant contribution to the library.

The second proposal involves beginning an initiative at Davidson toward combining technology and education. The first $20,000 to $30,000 would
be used to buy a comprehensive video system in Perkins Auditorium which would be utilized by several departments including Computer
Services, Humanities, Sociology, International Education, the Development Office, and the Fine Film committee. The remaining money would go toward starting
a long-term endowment, from which the interest would be used to buy technological teaching aids. After the demand for the
video system is demonstrated, as in the case of Computer Services, Davidson will recognize the need and continue funding more
up-to-date video services.

The third proposal establishes a Davidson student endowment. The class of 1985 would start an endowment that succeeding classes would
be invited to contribute to, and in exchange, use the interest generated from the endowment for their senior class gifts.
A tradition would be started by the Class of 1985 which would allow other senior classes to contribute toward a
growing endowment. The money would not be tied to one area, but can be used in a variety of ways.

The fourth proposal calls for starting a permanent Minority Student Scholarship. The money would supplement tuition for the duration of
one academic year for a minority student, to be chosen by the Admissions Office on a yearly basis. This gift
is aimed at addressing the issue of increasing the number of minority students at Davidson. The committee has been considering
raising $75,000 over five years and possibly seeking a corporate matching gift, increasing the total to $150,000.

The people who have been working on these proposals want your feedback so that they can eliminate one proposal before
the senior class vote. Please talk with any of the following seniors: Shep Robinson, Martha Nelson, Atondra Williams, David Gaffney,
Warren Gould, Ellen Papadeas, Walker Douglas, Susie Myers, Mike Wilkinson, Tony Holt, Meg Surratt, or Blake Carpenter. A newsletter explaining
these proposals further will be distributed to seniors.

Motivational Speaker To Give Talk

Michael Broome, a motivational speaker, will lecture on “How to be a liver of life and not a gall bladder.”
The presentation by the SGA Leadership Training Committee will be at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday in the Morrison Room. Betsy Downs,
co-chairman of the committee, said, “He’s a speaker who does much more than simply lecture. He touches people's lives.”

News Summary

Fewer Thefts Occur On Campus

Davidson police Chief Jackie Hughes said that the number of incidents of larceny and burglary this school year has beensmaller
than in some recent years. “It has been pretty quiet on the campus,” he said. “Students seem to be more
alert and are reporting unusual incidents,” he noted. Although relatively few thefts have occurred this school year, students have reported
seven incidents in the past month and a half. Rusk House had its microwave and stereo stolen early in December,
and Phi Delta Theta fraternity’s stereo was stolen during Christmas break, according to Hughes. Items were also taken directly from
students’ rooms and, in one case, from a backpack left outside the union, he said. Hughes also said that “joy
riding” on bikes is a problem, but suggested that locking up bikes would be a simple solution. Hughes said recovering
stolen items simply involves looking for them. He said police notify the pawn shops in Mooresville and Cornelius whenever someone
reports a theft. Hughes said knowing the serial number is also important in recovering stolen goods. He suggested that bicycle
owners engrave their driver’s license number on their bikes. In other incidents, a TV, a gold watch, Nike shoes, a
razor, and cologne were stolen from the apartment in the Phi Delta Theta house while the occupant was asleep, a
bicycle was taken from in front of Watts; a TV was stolen from a Belk dorm room; and a radio,
$15, and a $600 gold chain were taken from a Duke dorm room. Hughes said students should be aware of
strangers on campus and report them if they see anything suspicious. He also suggests that students lock things up. “Although
we’re under the Honor Code and Code of Responsibility,” he said, “outsiders are not.”

UNC Philosophy Professor To Speak

Dr. Thomas E. Hill Jr., a professor of philosophy at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, will present
a speech titled “Autonomy and Caring: A Conflict?” today at 4:30 p.m. in Perkins Auditorium. Hill specializes in ethics and
has written articles on autonomy, self-respect, and human rights. He is a Rhodes Scholar and former chairman of the Department
of Philosophy at UCLA. Davidson’s Philosophy Club is sponsoring his speech.

Professor Studies Seat Belt Incentives

As state legislatures across the country wrestle with the issue of mandatory seat-belt laws, psychology Professor John Kello and his
students are researching motivational techniques that encourage people to buckle up. Kello and selected psychology students are researching the project
in cooperation with two Reeves Brothers Curon Division plants in Cornelius, N.C. The project is aimed at encouraging more people
to acquire the habit of using seat-belts, and determining the most effective ways of influencing behavior and attitude changes toward
their use. Much of the earlier research in the field examined the impact of “incentive programs” (such as raffles for
prizes) on people’s use of seat-belts. The Davidson study compares such “external inducements” to strategies employing an “internal change” approach,
such as those based on small-group discussions in which participants are encouraged to examine and talk about their reasons for
not buckling up. Prior to a series of safety meetings in January and February of this year, seat-belt usage at
the Curon Automotive plant (as determined by daily observations at the start of some shifts) was near the national average
of 15 percent. After the sessions, observed use peaked at more than 50 percent. This rate was maintained for a
period of several weeks before it settled at about 35 percent, where it remained for the observation period of three
months. These results are more favorable in terms of percentage change and more persistent in terms of duration than most
earlier “incentive studies.” At the Curon Carolina plant, the other site studied, initial usage among hourly employees was around 4
percent. Safety meetings produced an increase in usage to 20 percent, but the figure later slipped back to around 12
percent. In an effort to increase usage at the plant further and to determine whether chronic non-users might be influenced
more by external rewards than by discussion, the Davidson research team has devised an incentive program as a follow-up to
the small group discussions. In this program, names of workers who pledged to use seat-belts for the three weeks of
the “contest” would be entered into a drawing for a $25 cash prize. The drawing would be held when observed
seat-belt usage for the plant remained at 40 percent or more for three consecutive days. Initial results of such a
program are encouraging, though seat-belt use has not yet reached the 40 percent level. The study also surveys employees’ attitudes
toward seat-belts prior to the safety discussions or incentive programs. “We are interested in seeing if there is a relationship
between a person’s reasons for not buckling up — for example, ‘I just forget’ as opposed to ‘I think I’d
be better off if I weren’t buckled up in an accident’ — and the kind of program he or she
is more likely to respond to,” Kello said. Although acknowledging that “the analysis of our data is still incomplete,” Kello
feels his findings are significant. “The group-discussion strategies we employed are proving to be surprisingly effective over the long term,”
he said.

Christmas Gift Fund Collects Over $4,600

The Christmas Gift Fund collected by the Chaplain’s office and Chapel committee in December, resulted in over $4,600 in donations
to help famine relief efforts in Africa. Half of the money was used for immediate emergency aid; the other half
will help to support community garden projects in Burkina Faso (formerly Upper Volta).
