DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXXIV, Number 13
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, January 25, 1985

SPE’s Proposed Court Move Gets Cold Response
By DAVID McGEE

Support is weak across campus for Sigma Phi Epsilon’s request before the CCRL (Council on Campus and Religious Life) to
open a social fraternity house on Patterson Court. The CCRL Monday postponed making a final decision on SPE’s proposal to
allow campus groups to express their opinions on the matter. This week, nearly every house on the Court voted overwhelmingly
against SPE moving onto campus as a social fraternity, which would not serve meals. SPE proposed returning to the Court
after the Davidson Board of Adjustors last May denied the fraternity special use zoning of its house at 409 N.
Main St. In addition, the SGA Senate Tuesday voted 0-22 against allowing SPE to return as a social fraternity. SPE,
according to the CCRL, has other options, however. The CCRL may approve SPE opening on campus as a social fraternity
with the provision that it would serve meals within a specified time period. Should the CCRL let SPE return as
a social house, it will likely establish provisions for future groups that would want to open a social house on
Patterson Court. The CCRL has voted 9-3 in favor of allowing social houses to operate on the court in principle.
Specifically, this decision means that a social house could operate under the principles of Patterson Court, outlined by the CCRL.
These principles include: teaching good management skills, providing a dining alternative to the Commons, and offering other social options, providing
a location for campus social groups and small-group eating, establishing campus groups that students can identify with as alumni, and
providing a source of jobs on campus.

SPE president Steve MacMillan believes a social fraternity would add another alternative to Davidson's social life. About the apparent negative
reaction to his fraternity’s proposal, MacMillan said, “A vast majority of the people I have spoken with are in favor
of it.” He criticized the way SPE’s proposal was presented this week before Court houses. “They never heard our side
of the story. I certainly was never invited to come talk to any house... You're still playing special-interest group politics.
The fraternities on campus are going to oppose us,” he said. MacMillan said SPE would probably not consider other alternatives
to operating a social house on campus.

By BO TAYLOE

A current affairs panel of senior officers from the U.S. Army War College in Carlisle, Penn. visited Davidson Tuesday, attended
classes, and participated in a series of informal discussions. The five students of the college and their faculty moderator are
giving their program at 36 colleges and universities and aim to stimulate and participate in dialogue on national security issues.

LTC Jack McGuinness discusses U.S. military policy with students. War College faculty member and moderator Colonel David G. Hansen introduced
panel members to students and faculty in the 900 Room Tuesday evening before a question and answer period. “We like
to think of ourselves as college students and faculty talking to other students and faculty,” he said, adding that the
panel “was not defending the policies of this or any other administration.”

(continued on page 4)

Police Search
By ROSS HOLT

Police are still seeking a suspect in the alleged rape in Little dormitory two weekends ago. According to town police
Chief Jack Warlick, investigators are working to narrow a list of suspects. He said police had questioned the suspects, some
twice, and had interviewed the victim again. Warlick said the victim could not identify the alleged attacker, but she thinks
he is a student. Police have also interviewed other potential witnesses.(continued on page 4)

Group Seeks New All-Women’s Eating House

By LEE WHITE

“Things are really moving fast,” said sophomore Connie Clark about her efforts to form a new all-women’s eating house on
Patterson Court. Clark and freshman Cameron Chalmers are heading up plans to establish another eating house on campus.

Clark said 43 freshmen women have signed a list expressing their interest in the proposed house. Counting upperclassmen, she said,
supporters of a new all-women’s eating house probably have 60 signatures altogether.

According to Clark, efforts to form a new house began after Christmas break. Clark met with Dean of Students Will
Terry and said she felt that he was “pretty enthusiastic” about a new all-women’s eating house. She is now writing
a proposal that Terry will bring before the Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) when it meets Monday.

Terry said he told Clark he could make “no promises” about whether or not the CCRL would approve the proposal.
One concern, however, which he will raise at the CCRL meeting, is how a new house would affect the viability
of Rusk and Warner Hall.

Clark said many freshmen women who want to join an all-women’s eating house are concerned that they will be put
on the waiting list at Rusk or Warner Hall. She said there is a need for a third all-women’s house.
Clark maintains that a third house would not create rivalry, but would add more diversity to Patterson Court. It would
also give women a third option if they wanted to join an all-women’s house, she said.

“There is definitely a trend this year to all-women’s houses,” she said. Clark said she is conducting a survey among
freshman women to determine their preference of a co-ed or all-women’s eating house. She said the results will be available
Monday and will be included in the proposal.

Meetings were held last Monday and Thursday for those interested in the proposed house. Clark said over 50 potential members
attended yesterday's meeting; most had not expressed prior interest in the house. Clark said those interested in the new house
will choose a name for the house by Monday and include it in their proposal. She said former Davidson President
Samuel Spencer and a female College Trustee are possibilities for the house's name. She hopes to have the new house
included on the Patterson Court list for Self-Selection.

(continued on page 4)

For Suspect; RAPE Sets Up Student Patrol

Speculated that the attacker was a student because he seemed unafraid of being seen in the dorm and because he
“seemingly knew his way around,” Warlick said. He emphasized, however, that any assumptions along these lines are only speculation.

Warlick said police have received information concerning a blue baseball cap the alleged attacker wore. “We have had some reports
of people who wear hats of a similar nature,” he said. Warlick said the alleged attacker also wore an army-type
fatigue jacket, though one not necessarily of military issue.

The victim, a 20-year-old sophomore, had attended a party before the Jan. 12 attack, according to the town police report.
She returned to her room and talked with her roommate before going to bed about 3 a.m. She awoke during
the attack, though her roommate did not, according to the report. The victim went to Charlotte Memorial Hospital for a
physical examination and County police became involved.

Meanwhile, the Davidson RAPE committee has set up a student-run group to patrol areas where students travel during late night
and early morning hours. During dorm meetings this week, RAPE committee members, SGA Security Committee members, and Davidson Emergency Rescue
Service (DERS) personnel reiterated self-protection tips and

(continued on page 4)
