4 Friday, November 1, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Richard Rusk portrays father’s humanity, optimism

By DAVID WILLIAMS

David Williams interviewed Richard Rusk, son of former Secretary of State Dean Rusk '31, while he was on campus with his father for Fall Convocation. Richard Rusk has been working on a biography of his father since July 1984, and will submit the final manuscript to the publisher by June 1986. He currently resides in Athens, Georgia, with his wife Frances and his two children Sarah, 13, and Andy, 5.

Davidsonian: What made you want to write a biography of your father?

Rusk: I knew in 1968 that at the height of the Vietnam War, with my father as an architect of one of the most controversial things this country has done in foreign affairs, that one day my father and I would sit down and go back to his beginnings and write that story. I needed to know what happened. So, I came back from Alaska in July of last year to do this book that we had decided to do together.

Davidsonian: What was your reaction to your father’s appointment as Secretary of State?

Rusk: We were living in Scarsdale, New York, at the time, and I was 14 years old. My father’s appointment was a hell of a shock for the whole family. I knew something big had happened. I'll never forget my father’s reaction. He had gone to Palm Beach to meet with Kennedy, where Kennedy named him Secretary of State. He didn’t know Kennedy, but my Dad had the recommendations of Dean Acheson and Robert Lovett and others. Dad accepted and he traveled back up to the East Coast. When he walked through the front door, he was just pale as a ghost, the color drained from his face. He was in terrible shock. He lost 15 pounds in the first two weeks from shock to his system.

D: What was it like to live your teenage years in Washington, D.C. as the son of Dean Rusk?

R: I was impressed with two things. First, how ordinary these extraordinary men are. How so much alike these men in leadership positions are to us average Americans. That is a story that is best told by family. No one knows Dean Rusk better than his son. We see things others don’t see, and we are aware of other qualities. Secondly, because these people are so much like the rest of us, it means they have the same hopes, dreams, and visions that many of us share. If Dean Rusk is representative of our leaders, these people in Washington mean well and try their hardest. And yet because they are so ordinary, that is a rather sobering thought, because you realize how much responsibility and pressure is thrust upon them. Being the son of a man like Dean Rusk was a unique perspective on the world and I would not trade it for anything.

D: What were your experiences and reactions to the Vietnam years?

R: I went into the Marine Corps right after high school and almost volunteered for Vietnam in 1965. But after hanging around an Ivy League campus [Cornell University] in the 1960s, it was very difficult not to develop some real doubts about what our country was doing in Southeast Asia. For me and my generation, Vietnam became an obsession, and that was too bad. It was a frustrating experience for me, because here my Dad was involved with this terrible controversy and there wasn’t a damned thing I could do about it. That’s when I decided that I had to realize this issue was too big for me, and the best I could do would be to go on with my life and someday write a book about my father.

D: How will history remember your father?

R: History will remember Dean Rusk for the war in Vietnam. There’s a certain cruelty in that. But we Rusks can live with it all. However, it’s worth pointing out that he was involved in so much more. He was a public servant for thirty years and involved in a fantastic sweep of history. He helped to tone down the excessive activism of the Kennedy administration. In his eight years, the United States negotiated five arms control agreements with the Soviet Union, and Dean Rusk has never been given credit for his major influence in bringing about these agreements. He also had major influence in resolving the Berlin Crisis of 1961 and the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962. The only thing he will truly take credit for, however, is that in conjunction with his two Presidents and other advisors, he helped add eight years to that period since a nuclear weapon has been fired in anger.

D: You have been working on your biography for over a year now. What have been your experiences in this period of time?

R: As I said, I left Washington with those men of the late ’60s, with my Dad involved in this controversy. The whole decade with Vietnam in particular was a terrible experience for us all. Then last year, when I came back to Georgia, I found that my father had genuinely become a folk hero in his own state. I heard that on the first day on the Georgia campus, the leader of the SDS [Students for a Democratic Society] came up and said, "Mr. Rusk, I didn’t care for your policy in Southeast Asia, but nevertheless, welcome to Georgia,” and he shook hands with him. It has been like that for my dad throughout the South everywhere. As his chaperone and seeing-eye dog over the past year, I’ve accompanied my Dad on speaking trips. Everywhere he goes he gets a standing ovation. I hear this talk about how much Dean Rusk has meant to the state of Georgia or to Davidson College. What the people don’t realize, what only the Rusk family realizes, is how much Georgia and Davidson College have meant to Dean Rusk.

D: What have Georgia and Davidson College...meant to Dean Rusk?

R: My dad came off a dirt farm in Cherokee County, Georgia, and went on to do great things, and that just didn’t happen by itself. There were many people along the way who helped him. For a nation to choose a freckle-faced, barefoot boy from Cherokee County as its own Secretary of State is a most gratifying experience, and it really seals his admiration for the United States. It means that if he can do it, that we can do it! You can’t convince me, having had Dean Rusk for a father, that the individual is helpless in this society. That has been the most inspiring aspect of having had a father like Dean Rusk.

D: In what other ways have you been inspired by your father?

R: The most inspiring experience for me in having a father like Dean Rusk can best be told with a story. In a letter he once sent me in Alaska, when I had encountered a setback that I thought was major, he wrote: “Rich, get on with your life. Don't be discouraged. Remember that men are not only judged by their achievements. They are judged as well by how they handle their failures.” And those remarks could be an epitaph for Dean Rusk. Here he had come out of a terrible experience of the 1960s, as a principal architect of a failed policy. He picked up the pieces of his life and continued with his story. That to me was the most inspirational part of my Dad’s career. In that sense, he’s not only a hero, but what you might call “a man for all seasons.” My father’s record in public life has had its share of disappointments and setbacks as well, but he kept trying.

D: How should Davidson College remember your father?

R: Family members of important national leaders are somewhat allergic to the “great man” theory of history. I prefer to think of my father as a “good” man. It’s important that Davidson College remember that he is a human being. That’s the most important aspect of his story.

D: What is your father attempting to accomplish in his post-Washington years?

R: Everywhere Dad goes, he seems to talk most about the threat of nuclear war. I remember following him to Cedar Shoals High School last spring where he gave a graduation speech to 9 thousand people in the football bleachers on a very hot day under impossible conditions with an inadequate P.A. system. He chose to talk to those students about the threat of nuclear war. He spoke that same message of hope that you heard here at Davidson, and he had that crowd mesmerized. My Dad’s a kind of hero to me. He straps on the nitroglycerine packages, goes to the field, sits through a long graduation program, and gives a speech as if he were addressing the General Assembly of the United Nations. He gave that speech everything he had. That’s the way he is living his life. He is an optimistic man, but if he worries at all, he is concerned that we may lose hope. That’s one reason he travels all over the South and talks to any group that asks him, because he thinks it fundamental that we not lose hope. He says hope is an operational necessity in a nuclear age. He really believes that if we try, that we will make it. That's important considering where he’s been. He is convinced that the human race will not destroy itself. We need to hear a message like that.

Students should exercise more caution at night

By RAY THROWER

Since school began, several concerned citizens have come to me to express their concerns about students jogging early in the morning and late at night. Some said they had almost hit a jogger while driving on Concord Road and North Main Street because they did not see the jogger until they were right up on them. In cities, two out of five people killed in motor vehicle accidents are pedestrians. In rural areas, the statistics are about one out of ten. We are all pedestrians at some time. As pedestrians we must follow the rules of the road. When you are jogging or walking at night or early in the morning, remember that it is hard for drivers to see you. As a pedestrian, you should walk or carry something white or reflective. You should do everything possible to make yourself visible and be alert for drivers who may not see you. Also, females walking or jogging at night alone should take extra precautions. Here are some suggestions:

1. Do not walk or jog by yourself late at night. Plan with friends who could walk or jog with you at night.
2. At night, try to stay on well-lighted streets and walkways; avoid doorways, shrubbery, dark shadows near buildings, and other potential hiding places.
3. Avoid shortcuts through woods, parks, and other deserted places.
4. Don’t daydream. Always be aware of what’s going on around you. You must be alert to potential dangers so that you may react quickly if it becomes necessary to defend yourself.
5. Keep your hands free. Do not be overloaded with books, packages, or groceries.
6. Carry a whistle with you at night. It should be in your hand while walking.
7. Be suspicious of men who offer to protect you from other men; attackers sometimes work in pairs.
8. If you are followed, cross the street and stay near street lights.
9. If you must run, also yell. Attract as much attention as possible.
10. If you are standing still (e.g., waiting for a bus), be balanced, alert, and ready.
11. If you are being followed or harassed by the occupants of a car, turn around and walk in the other direction. The driver will have to turn around to follow you. If you are being followed, go to the nearest business or residence for help.

Always feel free to call the Davidson College Police Dispatch at 892-5131 for escorts. We will be happy to escort you.