Friday, April 26, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

What Happens When A Camp Goes Out Of Bounds?

MEMO TO: Director of Camp Davidson
FROM: A Concerned Camper
RE: Camp Hysteria

Things are getting out of hand here at Camp Davidson! Last weekend for instance. Saturday, all over campus, people kept swearing—even taking the Lord’s name in vain—while they flung hub caps at trees. Tanning on Chamber’s lawn was next to impossible! And Sunday, the Sigma Alpha Epsilons had a cabin war, and they almost caught Knox Cabin on fire with a bottle rocket! Fire engines came, sirens! You should have seen it all. The “E’s” threw eggs and all kinds of stuff all over each other. But they had a great time, I guess, and had a party and got drunk afterwards (if not during).

And just the other day, when I was walking out of health class (the one Unkie Shi teaches), all these campers and counselors were stretched out on the bricks in front of Chambers. What a funny place to take a nap! After a few minutes, they all got up and held hands. It was neat. I was so mad when I found out they were playing my favorite game, opossum (they called it a “die-in”). Ask William Brown and the other people who work at the canteen if we can have another one soon.

I’m really looking forward to awards day today. My folks aren’t coming down, but I’m not winning anything anyway. (Oh well, my Dad must not be a very important Camp Davidson alumnus.) I can’t wait to wear my black robe again. It makes me feel like Batman. Remember at awards day last fall when you were inaugurated? The fourth-year campers sat outside in their black robes, and all the camp counselors got to wear the robes they’ve spent their whole lives decorating. I'll never forget when the camp minister, Dr. Raynal, messed up the Lord’s prayer. Maybe he didn’t get to practice it enough.

I guess things aren’t really that bad here. (That is, if you forget the mudball match yesterday. Boy, won’t Frances Beaver have her hands full getting all those clothes clean!) This is my last year at Camp Davidson. It'll be really sad to leave next month. I’ve been thinking. Where else, save good ol’ Camp Davidson, can you get your meals cooked and your clothes washed for you, an instant social life, 17 weeks of vacation a year, and free beer on weekends?

What This Town Needs...

It’s getting darn irritating listening to the alarm in the old Parks Rexall drug store on Main Street whine away nearly every night. That alarm must get a little lonely in there, and every time someone walks by, it just has to say hello. Several people around campus have a golden idea: buy the place and put a bar in there. What Davidson needs is a good off-campus night club. A little fixing up, and the place could easily rival the Korner Pub and the Par 4 in no time—glasses clinking, light chatter, jazz band in the background... But what would you call it? The Drug Store?

By PEGGY PIEROTTI

The “Caption This Photo Contest” was a success. With over 25 printable entries, it was almost harder to choose the winner than to have captioned it ourselves. Here are the best, or at least the most interesting of the lot: Dr. Holland, will you sign my course schedule, please... Dr. Holland... Dr.Holland? Mike Washburn would have won First Place for this had it actually been Gil Holland, but it’s still a great caption. Anderson Scott, who took the photo, entered with this caption: "God! What a brilliant photograph! Anderson Scott must have taken that!" Nice try, Anderson. Those who recognized the photo’s figure as C. Shaw Smith incorporated that fact into their captions: "I can’t believe it! Not one had a review of my magic act!!"—Rocky Kmiecik. "C. Shaw Smith waits to be ignited"—Margaret Allen. "C. Shaw Smith 'gets it every morning ...'"—Chris Lightbown. "C. Shaw Smith, a legend in his own TIMES"—the punny C. S. Gunn. "Hello ... CHARLOTTE OBSERVER? Have I talked with you about your paper collection drive?"—Shaw Smith. "A mess within a mess."—Myrtle Knox (who added that she was “Mr. Smith’s former secretary.”)

Other interesting captions included Davidsonian Managing Editor Brooke Knight’s suggestion: "DAVIDSONIAN Editor John Gathings in the office after a year of editing." Also: "And thus newspaper beings, quite well suited to the climate of the Earth, proceeded to proliferate, thriving on a diet of bricks and liberal arts students indigenous to Davidson College."—Judy Dalton. "A place for everything and everything all over the place."—Lucinda, Ann, Megan, Suzy, and Lisa. Will Cardwell suggested: "Warning: Highly Flammable! No SAE pledges allowed." This caption was approved wholeheartedly at the bottom by a nameless SAE, and it drew numerous votes for First Place.

Chris Bramlett wins the final award for the most bizarre caption: "Orgasm." Chris, maybe the counseling office could help... Apologies to all those whose captions we did not print... They were generally good, and we’ll let you know the next time we need your help.

The Study Break? No Classes Tomorrow? The Fourth Exam? Okay, maybe not. But what an idea! It’s probably the best one since the 900 Room stopped serving beer in pitchers.

‘I’m going WHERE?’ Michael Lewis, 21, a student at Sacramento Community College, thought he was headed to Oakland, Calif., from London when misfortune, or rather mispronunciation, struck. While changing flights in Los Angeles, instead of boarding a plane to Oakland, he wound up on a flight to Auckland, (are you ready for this?) New Zealand. What promised to be a one-hour, 400-mile connecting flight turned into a whopping 12-hour, 6,500-mile, $2,064 journey with a stop in Tahiti that probably would have made even Ulysses cringe. Apparently, an airplane attendant on Air New Zealand asked Lewis, “Are you going to Auckland?” As fate would have it, New Zealanders say “Auckland” just like we pronounce “Oakland.” Air New Zealand, the Associated Press reported, won't charge Lewis for the extra mileage. What a way to see the world! By mistake! Well, wanderlust does have its drawbacks, doesn’t it?

BRINGING GOVERNMENT INFORMATION TO YOU

THE HAIR COTTAGE
ALL Student Haircuts $5.00

Information from the Federal Government on subjects ranging from agriculture to zoology is available at Depository Libraries across the nation. You can visit these libraries and use the Depository collection without charge. To find one in your area, contact your local library or write to the Federal Depository Library Program, Office of the Public Printer, Washington, DC 20401.

Linda, formerly with Davidson’s Headquarters, has relocated to the Hair Cottage. Linda will be working with hair stylist Jane Schenck. They invite all of their student clientele to call 892-4959 for an appointment.

“THE BEST LITTLE HAIR HOUSE IN DAVIDSON”

The Federal Depository Library Program
This program is supported by The Advertising Council and is a public service of this publication.