2 es Se THE DAVIDSONIAN Volume LXXIV, Number 11 Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036 Friday, January 11, 1985 Farrell Steps Down As Head Coach Task force members discuss the race report at yesterday's student forum Task Force Forums Gather Opinions By DAVID McGEE “Intense recruitment goes hand-in-hand with creating an environment that retains students,” John Griffith, co-chairman of the presidential Task Force on Racial/Ethnic Concerns, said yesterday about the goal the task force has for minorities at Davidson. This week the Task Force sought the opinions of students and faculty in two forums concerning the report it released Nov. 30. Major points brought up at both forums will be included in the task force’s final report to President John Kuykendall, who will present recommendations to the Trustees on the development of Davidson’s policy toward minorities. In addition, a reaction panel, composed of town residents and others associated with Davidson, will evaluate the task force’s report. Griffith said the reaction panel's report will be on file in the library. The task force will hold another forum today at 4 p.m. on monitoring the progress of the strategies outlined in its report. The two forums held yesterday and Wednesday focused primarily on the report’s suggested strategies for addressing nine areas of concern for minority students' experience here. These areas include recruitment of black students, social stresses that blacks and other minorities face on campus and in the Davidson community, lack of black role models on the faculty and staff, emphasis on black racial culture, heritage, and history in Davidson’s academic program, the high attrition rate of black students, and involvement of black alumni in the life of the college. The Trustees will consider the recommended strategies and approve funding for them at their February meeting. For recruitment of black students, the report’s strategies call for full merit scholarships for academically exceptional black students; starting in 1986, four would be awarded yearly. The report recommends measures to intensify recruitment of blacks, particularly at regional high schools and schools with significant black populations. One student said at a forum yesterday some black students he knew at a Charlotte high school had never heard of Davidson. Plans also include hiring a full-time black Admissions department staff member. The second set of strategies seeks to bolster support for blacks who come to (continued on page 3) Christian Harberts By TED WILSON Davidson's football fans will no longer see Head Coach Ed Farrell on the sidelines. Farrell told Athletic Director Kit Morris Monday that he will not return as head football coach next year. Farrell was 36-70-1 in 11 seasons at Davidson and 70-79-1 in 14 seasons as a college head coach. Farrell said, “I couldn't see that anything better in the foreseeable future would happen in the football program. I felt I should do something different than coach here, producing losing records. “I had given it a great deal of thought at the beginning of last spring,” Farrell said, when he decided to step down as Athletic Director and “put everything into football.” First, he wanted to complete the 1984 season and make adecision based on the results. “The coaching staff [did] an excellent job, and I couldn't have asked for any more from the players” during spring training and the season. “After a 2-8 season [I saw] nothing to encourage me that a winning one was a possibility. I decided I needed to do something different.” President John Kuykendall said it was “his [Farrell's] decision, we talked about it over a period of time. There was no pressure from me to do this.” He added, “The reasons he gave were accurate and we were in accord on how things stood.” Kit Morris said “we had a chance to (continued on page 3)

Students, Administrators Work For Rape Prevention
By DAVID VAN PELT

Davidson’s new RAPE (Raised Awareness and Protection for Everyone) committee seeks to educate Davidson students and aid victims of assault on campus, according to committee chairperson Melissa McLemore. Rape at Davidson is “enough of a problem for us to be concerned,” McLemore said. “Recently I have understood it is a problem,” said Assistant Dean of Admissions and Students Paula Miller. “There have been some cases of rape on campus.”

McLemore began organizing the nine-member committee this fall in conjunction with Miller. She plans to hold a series of rape forums, literature, and dorm meetings in the next several weeks. “We're not out to make accusations or to fry anyone at all,” McLemore said. “We're here to help the campus deal with the problem.”

Committee members include McLemore, Miller, sophomore Chrissy Pyle, juniors Robin Scheid and Victoria Isaacs, senior Anne Miano, sociology and anthropology Professor Robert Ruth and his wife Joyce, and Missy Kuykendall. According to McLemore, committee members have varied experience in fields ranging from medical training to rape counseling to “good listening” peers. McLemore worked in a trauma center for five years, Miano has rape counseling experience, and Kuykendall, Miller, and Joyce Ruth have had counseling training. In addition, Joyce Ruth is a registered nurse, and Scheid and McLemore are EMTs.

“We're not pretending to be major counselors,” McLemore said. “We don't think we can give extensive therapy. We want to be the link to people who can.” Among the resources available for rape victims in this area is the Rape Crisis Center in Charlotte, which RAPE Committee members will visit tomorrow for sessions in handling rape cases. The committee will also meet with the Charlotte Assistant District Attorney in charge of rape cases to discuss the legal aspect of rape. “We have been guided by professionals in Charlotte and will continue to work under their auspices and training,” McLemore said.

“Though rape is generally considered as being perpetrated by a stranger,” McLemore said, “this is true in only 30 percent of rape cases.” Though she said legal distinctions are made between different kinds of rape, “in my mind if (a victim) is not consciously and willingly making the decision it is rape.” In many dating situations “girls just don't feel they have control,” McLemore (continued on page 3)