Friday, October 18, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Who's On First?
On the cutting edge of sports trivia
By ANDY BARRON

Did you know that:
— Hockey season started last week! NHL players have one of the worst deals in sports. They play eight months of the year, most aren’t paid well (compared to other sports), and they play one of the most physically demanding games around. Still, I’m looking forward to watching Wayne Gretzky play again.
— The NBA has been playing pre-season ball for a couple of weeks. I’m not excited about pro basketball starting since the only good thing about the commencement of pro basketball season is that college hoops can’t be far behind.
— College basketball teams across the nation began official practices last Tuesday. This should be a fine season for Davidson. Last year’s murderous schedule has been toned down and coach Bobby Hussey has everybody back from last year’s 10-20 (6-10 in the Southern Conference) squad. Davidson plays an exhibition game against the Irish National team on November 16 and opens the season at home against Wofford on November 23. All you ACC fans will have a great winter as well since Georgia Tech, Duke, and North Carolina should all have banner years.
— St. Louis Cardinals rookie sensation Vince Coleman, who stole 110 bases this year, missed games four and five of the National League Championship series because an automatic tarp rolled onto his leg. The tarp trapped Coleman after he accidentally hit the button turning the tarp roller on. Though this freak injury might seem humorous, remember this tarp weighed approximately 1,200 pounds. Luckily, Coleman escaped without serious injury and may play in game six.
— Number one ranked Iowa and number two ranked Michigan play tomorrow on national television, except here where Auburn vs. Georgia Tech will be shown. I’m sorry, but I’d much rather watch the nation’s top two teams than any team in the ACC playing anybody.

Locally, you should know that:
— The new Knobloch Tennis Building will be officially dedicated tomorrow at 10:45 a.m. with an exhibition match at 11 a.m. Dr. Oliver “Bo” Roddey of Charlotte ’50, Mr. A. W. “Buck” Archer of Shelby, N.C. ’47, Emmy Knobloch of Atlanta ’82, and Eleanor Knobloch of Alexandria, VA ’84, all former greats of Davidson tennis, will play a mixed doubles match to break the courts in. All students are invited to the festivities.
— Davidson plays Ivy League champ Pennsylvania in tomorrow's homecoming game. Davidson almost upset Penn last year and will be ready to play. To win, Davidson must do better than its abysmal 4.8 yards per game rushing.
— Some bright news concerning the football team: How about senior Jay Poag? Poag leads the Southern Conference in receiving with 7.5 catches per game.
— Congratulations to soccer coach Charlie Slagle and his wife Nancy on the birth Wednesday of their second child. Amelia, 6 lbs, 12 oz, is the newest member of the Davidson athletic “family.”

And finally, I'm aware that Mike Schmidt played first base for most of this season. However, Schmidt made a name for himself at third base, and since I couldn't find anyone who deserved the honor more, I put Schmidt at third on my National League All-Star team.

Club volleyball strives for varsity status
By PAM HARMANN

For those of you who are unaware of the existence of the women’s club volleyball team, they have had a successful season. Heading into yesterday’s final match at Queen’s, the team’s record was 7-6. According to senior captain Amy Hartman,The team has improved since last year. In fact, it is the most talented team she has seen in her four years here at Davidson. Professor Louis Ortmayer coached the team until he left on October 5 and was replaced by Professor Thomas Kazee. The coach's duties include providing the line-up, subbing in players, and making suggestions for practices, which the girls basically run themselves. Practices are on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Sundays, unless matches fall on those days, which they frequently do. Last Tuesday, the team played its best match of the season here versus Sacred Heart. The teams were well matched as far as talent was concerned, which provided for competitive volleyball. The match was exciting, with Davidson winning three games to two. Like Davidson, Sacred Heart is a club team. However, about half of Davidson’s games have been against varsity teams, some of whom even offered scholarships. This gives an idea of the quality of teams Davidson is playing. Captain Amy Hartman explained that she scheduled these matches in accordance with her goal to make women’s volleyball a varsity sport. “I scheduled a lot of games with varsity teams figuring that we'd probably lose but wanted to show that we could hold our own with varsity teams,” she said. “We ended up being successful which proves that with a coach and a little money, women’s volleyball as a varsity sport could be a reality.” The team has had to overcome adversity in many forms. Scheduling practices remains difficult due to the great demand for gym time. Also, the lack of pre-season training placed the team at an additional disadvantage when compared to the more thorough training of their opponents. Yet the Lady Cats have hurdled all obstacles to make their 1985 season a successful one.

New track coach brings experience
By RAND HARTSELL

Gary Andrews has accepted the position of Davidson College track coach. The position was left vacant during the summer when former coach Gwen Harris resigned to take the assistant track coaching job at James Madison University in Harrisonburg, Va. “I've been looking to return to North Carolina,” Andrews said earlier this month during a visit to the campus. Andrews has spent the last two years at Pennsylvania State University doing research and preparing a dissertation on biomechanics. While at Penn State, Andrews also worked with the Nittany Lion cross country program. Before venturing off to State College, Pa., Andrews taught math and coached the cross country and track programs at Chapel Hill High School in Chapel Hill, N.C. His five-year stint at CHHS produced four state cross country team championships for both the men’s and women’s programs. Andrews is married and has one son.

Accent your new fall style with a golden tan. Come by and see the latest new fall styles.
New Styles/Golden Tans
“The Tonsure”
20808 N. Main
Cornelius, N.C.

HOW FAR WILL YOUR TALENT TAKE YOU?
Apply for the TIME College Achievement Awards and find out. TIME Magazine is searching for 100 college juniors who have distinguished themselves by their excellence in academics and, more importantly, exceptional achievement outside the classroom. The top twenty winners will be awarded $1,000-$5,000 and profiled in a special promotional section in TIME. Eighty finalists will receive certificates of merit. All 100 students will be given first consideration for internships with participating corporations, some of which are listed below. Details at your dean’s office or call 1-800-523-5948.
Time Inc. • The American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. • Ford Division • U.S. Navy Officer Program
TIME
The College Achievement Awards