6 Friday, February 1, 1985 / The Davidsonian

Music
By STEVE MANK

The dB’s, in their slow ascent to nationwide recognition, are filling a major gap in pop music. As a genre,
pop music (not popular — that’s Duran Duran) has been largely ignored in this country. It seldom is seen on
American charts, and just about the only pop act the states have to offer is Marshall Crenshaw. But "Like This"
might change all that.

This music grooves. The hooks work their way into the unconscious, forcing you to hum the tunes incessantly. The beat
drags you to your feet and makes you flop around like some marionette gone awry. The lyrics are simple yet
witty and at times even poignant. “Love is for Lovers,” with its tinny guitar and pounding drums, is the perfect
innocent backdrop for lyrics like, “Now every day's like summer vacation, Christmas and Birthday rolled into one day.” Vocalist Peter
Holsapple isn’t saying anything new, but he’s saying it well. When he asks some unknown lover, “Do you believe this
is love?” you hope she'll say yes because this guy's really gone bananas about her.

The dB’s are much more than great writers of old-fashioned love songs. They use their guitars like great paintbrushes. They
create tunes that not only say something through words, but through the music itself. The airy ethereal mood of “Lonely
is (as Lonely Does)” perfectly complements Holsapple's joyous requiem to his own loneliness. Suddenly the fog vanishes, the strings fade,
and the intimate, secret Holsapple soliloquizes, “Living in the past is tough / Living here today’s enough, / The future’s
much too far away...” — enter fog, strings, et al. — “Lonely’s with us every day.”

The complexity of the dB’s sound is where their true beauty lies. They can go from lush orchestration to stark
minimalism without skipping a beat. They remain a basically guitar-oriented group, but with each of the three delightfully adept musicians
doubling on keys, the group is capable of creating most any atmosphere. Producer Chris Butler, from the Todd Rundgren stable,
milks the band’s sound for all it's worth. The combo is just as at home with rave-up soul as with
rock. Armed with a lyric stolen from a Doors song, they twist it and churn it and funk it up
so much that any comparison would be absurd. The two-note guitar solos and rumbling Hammond organ take you back to
the spirit of 1966 without necessarily sounding like a ’60s song.

The dB’s can take influences without sounding exactly like them. They’re not copping clichés. They're coming up with new riffs
that sound so familiar that they could be clichés already. It’s not until the end of the second side that
they begin to differ wildly from the basic pop format of the rest of the LP. “On the Battlefront” is
an effective commentary on war — not “a” war or a potential war, just “war.” But unlike most protest songs,
this one stands on its own as good music which need not be taken in context. The dB’s country excursion,
“White Train,” has everything any self-respecting C & W song should have: a good ol’ boy, a girl back home,
the ill-meaning devil, and, of course, the white train “takin’ me to heaven.”

"Like This" may not be the first pop album to come out in America, but the dB’s put it out
to spread a message: how good pop is made.

Final Four Prepare For College Bowl Conclusion
By TIM WAPLES

The end of the regular season is always a relief to us College Bowl snobs in the Green Room. Once
the playoffs begin, forfeits are a thing of the past and very few answers include the name Fred J. Pooter.
Real teams don’t say Fred J. Pooter.

The final eight real teams squared off on Sunday in the first round of the playoffs. Sad to say, losses
at the hands of Buzz Aldrins and Wrong Stuff forced Boyshot awardWinner Thundering Amoebi to hang up the buzzers for
the last time. Even bringing John “Johnny Flash” Laughlin out of retirement couldn't get the Amoebi on the winning track.
John James summed it up by saying, “We owe it all to clean living.”

Sunday night was also the last night for a promising bunch of sophomores, Les Idiots Savants. After taking Get Out
of the Way down to the wire, they ran into a pumped-up I Phelta Thi that ended their season with
a rousing 265-145 victory. Because the Idiots will be depleted by the JYA program next year, Perry Matthews offered an
interesting variant on the old Brooklyn Dodgers theme: “Just wait till senior year.”

The six remaining teams reconvened on Tuesday night and the ‘Bowl was better than ever. Despite a heroic effort by
Ross Holt and a clutch display of nationalism by Stu King, I Phelta Thi lost by a scant five points
to Wrong Stuff in the last second of the game. The Catatonics also tumbled, dropping matches against Buzz Aldrins and
Skeetshooters. The hot team was definitely Get Out of the Way, essentially the tournament's defending champions, who dozed to a
4-1 regular season record and a narrow victory over The Idiots.

The situation changed when Get picked up the buzzers against the Skeetshooters. Get cruised to a big victory, then smashed
Buzz Aldrins, the only undefeated team left from this year’s action. As the dust cleared at the end of the
evening, Get remained as the winner of the winners’ bracket. Wrong Stuff and the Skeetshooters will meet for the right
to face Buzz for the losers’ bracket championship and the chance to get Get.

Of course, Get has long been established as the brashest team in the league this year. As Senior John Munson
said, “If we play as well as we did Tuesday, nobody can touch us.” Teammate Ann “The Meteor” Meador attempted
to characterize their potential opponents, the Skeetshooters, Wrong Stuff, and Buzz Aldrins: “Rookies, ROTC’s and gentlemen.”

All the talk is just preliminary, though, to the action on Monday night. Beginning at 9:30 p.m. in the Morrison
room the final four will go head-to-head to resolve the championship. Can the Skeet shoot to the top? Will the
Stuff be wrong enough? Is Buzz doomed to be second again? Can Get get there? These and other questions will
all be answered Monday night.

BUFFET — ALL YOU CAN EAT — Mooresville’s First And Finest Italian Restaurant ‘KING Of PIZZA

Sunday 12 Noon til 9:00 P.M. 241 SOUTH BROAD STREET—MOORESVILLE—663-3030

Tues., Wed. & Thurs. 5 P.M. ’til 9 P.M.

SPAGHETTI 100% Durham Wheat OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD PARMESAN—ROMANO CHEESE

SALAD BAR 45 Items FRESH GREEN VEGETABLES DELICIOUS FRUITS FLAVORFUL MEATS RICH DRESSINGS TASTY CHEESES WINE CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE DESSERT-TEMPTING
HAWAIIAN SALAD

ALL FOR $3.89 PER PERSON

Meal Includes: PIZZA Still Mooresville’s Finest SPICY PEPPERONI CANADIAN BACON ITALIAN SAUSAGE CHOICE BEEF FRESHLY DICED GREEN PEPPERS SWEET ONIONS

SOUP OF THE DAY CREAM OF POTATO VEGETABLE BEEF STOCK CHICKEN NOODLE CHILI CON CARNE

SPECIAL RATES FOR CHILDREN UNDER 12—25¢ PER YEAR

Lunch Buffet—Mon.-Sat., 11 AM-2:30 PM $2.99
