By MIKE ADAMS

The Wildcat defense was ready to play against Pennsylvania on Saturday, but someone must have forgotten to tell the offense
about the game. Pennsylvania scored enough points in the first minute of the game to mar Davidson’s Homecoming with a
loss. On the Cats' third play from scrimmage, sophomore quarterback Charlie Winborne was sacked in the end zone. The 2-0
lead that resulted proved to be all the Quakers needed, as Davidson’s offense failed to score in the game. The
13 points added by the Pennsylvania offense for the final score of 15-0 served merely as icing.

The Davidson defense put on a sterling performance. Despite giving up 242 yards rushing and 146 yards through the air,
the Wildcat defensive squad held Pennsylvania to a touchdown and two field goals. The Davidson defense managed to hold Pennsylvania
to only one field goal in the second half despite their apparent exhaustion. They remained on the field for almost
two-thirds of the game.

There were several solid individual performances. Except for one series in the second quarter, senior defensive back Tony Smith played
an excellent game. He broke up two passes, one of which he reached out at the last second and tapped
away just before it hit the receiver’s hands. In the fourth quarter, Smith made what could have been the Cats’
biggest play of the game. He stepped in front of a Pennsylvania receiver at midfield for an interception and raced
50 yards for what appeared to be a touchdown. Unfortunately, an official said he stepped out of bounds at the
13-yard line. Davidson’s offense was unable to score from there.

Junior defensive back Gary Stewart also had a good game. He made several tackles to stop potential big gains, and
in the fourth quarter, he hauled in an interception of his own in the end zone. On the defensive line,
the Cats got good play from senior tackle Andy McCary and junior tackle Charles Showers. With the Quakers in a
second down situation with one yard to go for a first down deep in Davidson territory, McCary blasted through the
line to register a sack and a nine-yard loss, effectively stifling the drive. Showers made a big play in the
second quarter with the Quakers facing third down and 13 at the Davidson 23-yard line. He put so much pressure
on the quarterback that he was forced to rush his throw, which fell incomplete. Pennsylvania had to settle for a
field goal.

Senior linebackers Chuck Goff and Micah Downing also played very well. Goff was in on several tackles and made a
first-quarter interception. Downing also had a number of tackles and registered a third-quarter sack for a loss of eight yards.
The defensive unit kept Pennsylvania within reach, but the Cats were unable to answer the call offensively. Davidson generated almost
no offense. They had only three first downs in the game, and only one after the first quarter. The three
quarterbacks who played — Winborne, junior Steve Bradley, and junior Jack McCollum — completed only five passes in 20 attempts
for no gain. The rushing attack was virtually non-existent.

Soccer remains unbeaten in conference

By ANDY BARRON

The score of a soccer game doesn’t always reflect a team’s performance. Look at the last week of Davidson soccer.
Last Saturday, Davidson beat Marshall 2-1 despite a lackadaisical effort. Then on Wednesday, the Wildcats lost to seventh-ranked South Carolina
5-0 despite playing even for almost the entire game. Davidson has a 6-7-2 record for the season, 3-0 in the
Southern Conference. The Cats are currently ranked tenth in the South.

The soccer team kicked off the activities of Homecoming last Saturday against Marshall in a less impressive manner than they
would have liked. Marshall looked psyched up for the game and played with a lot of intensity. Davidson, despite a
less enthusiastic effort, displayed their superior talent throughout the game. The Wildcats’ skill and the Thundering Herd’s effort canceled each
other out to produce a balanced first half. Senior Sean Goudie broke the ice for Davidson by pouncing on a
loose ball made possible by a cross.from sophomore David Rosselot. Marshall tied the score late in the half when a
chip pass came to the top of the penalty area. A Marshall forward caught junior goalie Jim Kelly charging out
of the goal mouth, lobbed one over him, and knotted the game at one. The game’s best moment came in
the second half when sophomore Andy Clarke scored a breakaway goal. Sophomore Steve Ott set up the goal with a
beautiful through pass that allowed Clarke to run to the open space behind the defenders. Clarke slammed a long shot
from the wing past the helpless Marshall goalie to ice the game for Davidson, 2-1.

“We were a step slow the entire match,” coach Charlie Slagle said. “We weren’t anticipating and could have played much
better. Still, I'll take the win.”

Davidson’s trip to Columbia on Wednesday turned sour late in the second half. South Carolina led 1-0 at halftime and
dominated the first half. The first twenty minutes of the second half, Davidson played even with the Gamecocks. Then South
Carolina got a goal that combined skill, fate, and a convenient rebound to make the score 2-0. Then the floodgates
opened. Another rebound goal made the score 3-0. Sophomore Josh Budde replaced Kelly in goal, but South Carolina didn’t stop.
Two goals later, the game was over and South Carolina went away 5-0 winners.

“They are a tough team, especially at home,” Slagle said. “We played better than the score indicated, but they are
an extremely talented team and deserve their ranking.”

This weekend will play a crucial role in the Wildcats’ conference championship hopes. Tonight the Cats play Marshall again, this
time in West Virginia. Then Davidson travels to VMI for a match on Sunday. If the Cats can win both
games, the upcoming game with Appalachian State won't be nearly as crucial as in past years. Still, Davidson must win
both games this weekend to make life easier.

Cross country fares well at State
By RAND HARTSELL

The State Cross-Country Championships of North Carolina turned into the N.C. State fun run on Thursday, October 17th. While the
Davidson women’s team finished seventh and the men’s team eighth, N.C. State’s teams cruised to nearly unmolested victories, including the
individual titles.

The Davidson women’s team, running without number one contender Kappa Peddy, still managed to slip by UNCC, even though Peddy
is currently out of the competition with a recurring knee problem. “Running without Kappa cost us at least one place
in the team standings,” coach Sterling Martin said. The Cats finished directly behind St. Augustine. Both Martin and assistant coach
Sarah Patterson were far from disappointed, however. “Both the men and women ran well. I’m pleased,” Patterson said.

Senior Judy Dalton led the way for the Cats, placing 31st. She was followed by sophomores Laura Fannin, Morrow Reeves,
and Sarah Langley, and by senior Caroline Kelly. The men’s team also finished one spot ahead of UNCC as senior
Frank Hague once again led the Cats’ scoring. Hague placed 40th in 27:07, his best time ever over the N.C.
State course. Junior Greg Foreman came in 21 seconds behind Hague. Senior Rob Watkins, freshmen Bill Whitefield, and junior Emil
Cekada finished off Davidson’s scoring.

“I felt strong,” Foreman said. “The race gave me a lot of confidence going into Southern Conference. I expect to
run about 26:15 [for the five-mile course at the Citadel].” The Southern Conference meet on November 2nd is the Cats'
last regularly scheduled competition. For the first time, a women’s championship will be held. Marshall, Western Carolina, UT-Chattanooga, Appalachian State,
East Tennessee State, and Davidson will all be eligible for the championship. Furman will send its unofficial club team. Since
VMI and the Citadel do not admit women to their schools, neither school will send a women’s team.

Cris Simpson/Blueprint

Freshman Brian Overcash was the leading rusher with only eleven yards on seven carries. The Cats travel to Harrisburg, Virginia
on Saturday to face James Madison. There’s no let-up, JMU is another tough opponent and it will be a real
upset if the Cats can beat them.
