Friday, January 25, 1985 / The Davidsonian 5

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Workshop Plays Open With Hit And Near Miss

By ROSS HOLT

The Theatre department’s Winter workshop season opened last night with two plays, one a hit and the other a near miss. Canadian Gothic by Joanna Glass, as directed by junior Anne Lambert, was a brooding examination of the relationship between a father and his daughter. Am I Blue? by Beth Henley, directed by junior Alison McGill, followed one evening in the lives of a college fraternity member and a scatterbrained high school student he meets in a bar.

Canadian Gothic, first in the set, begins inauspiciously but works its way into an affecting drama. Senior John Marks, a veteran of many Davidson productions, plays the patriarch of a Cardigan, Canada, family. He is a stern man who prescribes the mundane bounds within which his spirited wife, played by junior Jennifer Poole, can live. But the wife manages to instill her ideas about life and freedom in the couple’s daughter Jean, played by junior Martha Wilson. As Jean matures, though, she becomes involved with Ben Red Leaf, a Native American played by Andrew Wilson, and her mother’s legacy leads to tragedy.

At first, this play seems unlikely to succeed. The characters tell their story, and their feelings, to the audience in narrative fashion and use interaction among the characters to punctuate the narrative. Most of the dramatic interest in the play comes when the narrative resumes after an interaction to cap the scene with a sudden reality about what happened. In the play’s first few minutes, you get the nagging feeling that you would rather be shown than told. Further, the play, and this production of it, are static. To a degree, the stillness is inherent in the play; the stop-start nature of the action limits the range of movements the actors have. Ideally, the blocking should account for the stillness, but here it sends the actors to the same places, when they do move, over and over again. Director Lambert has also given the characters territories on the stage, further limiting the scope of movement.

It is left entirely to the characters the actors have created, then, to capture the audience. They succeed, magnificently. Canadian Gothic begins and runs for its first half as mere storytelling, but it becomes a riveting piece of theatre. The success is due in large part to Marks and Martha Wilson. Both bring an impressive depth to their characters. As the daughter, Wilson builds experience into her innocence gradually as she matures through the play. Marks, as the father, who says he wraps himself with a crust like the earth to protect the softness inside, evokes precisely the right emotion at the right time. He has endowed his character with just the right “nice touches,” from his not-too-American but still provincial accent to the way he pathetically searches his cardigan sweater, at the end of the play, for a non-existent breast pocket.

This production will put you off at first. But during the blackout after the final scene between Marks and Wilson, you will be left, as most in yesterday’s audience were, wondering whether to applaud or wipe the tear from your eye.

The evening’s second play, Am I Blue?, however, is less successful. It almost works, but inexperienced actors just miss lifting the play above its rather clichéd formula. The play itself comes out of a subspecies of plays, of sorts, two or three of which usually appear during a workshop season. These plays are primarily banter comedies, the humorous dialogue of which veers from the saccharine to the bizarre. They employ at least one “normal” character and at least one “weird” one; one male and one female. Halfway through, these plays turn “relevant,” and the ripostes become more revealing. Finally, however, the two main characters end up happily snuggling.

In this case, the “normal” character is John Polk Richards, played by freshman Lee Eichelberger, a first-year college student and fraternity member. The “weird” character is Ashbe Williams, played by sophomore Sarah Smith, a high school student in cat-eye glasses who escapes the cliquish nature of her peers by indulging in bizarre hobbies such as kleptomania and dyeing marshmallows. The two meet up in a bar as John Polk is getting drunk for a later appointment at a house of ill repute. Ashbe somehow persuades him to wait at her house. There, amid the clutter of paper dolls, paper hats, and other junk, the two attempt a compromise solution to their diverse social problems.actors, the comedy can overwhelm the cliché. In last night’s production, however, the actors’ timing was often off, and Eichelberger and Smith seemed at times to lack energy. Consequently, the humor often did not last past the laughs. When Eichelberger and Smith hit their mark, however, the play clicks. Their characters are polished and funny, and the potential exists to lift the play above the cliché. Both plays are entertaining at face value. Canadian Gothic, however, goes deeper, and makes this workshop as rewarding as any.

Photography Exhibit Captures History, Techniques
By DR. FRANK BLISS
Special to The Davidsonian

The photographs on display in Chambers Gallery this month are stunning. Here in connection with the Sloan Foundation symposium entitled “Photography: A Technological Art Form,” the prints are from the George Eastman House, Princeton University, and Davidson’s own collection. I’ve visited the Gallery at least once a day since the exhibition opened, and each time I have found new things to see. It’s a very exciting assemblage, and if you haven’t seen it yet, you should view this unique collection at least once before it departs. It’s too good to miss.

On the south wall of the Gallery are prints from the nineteenth century; at the rear are thirty-five prints by Princeton Visual Arts Professor Emmet Gowin. On the north wall are prints from the 20th century. The first time you view the photographs, to gain a sense of the history of photography you should start at the south door, and when you have looked at each print on that wall, you should walk to the north door and view the twentieth-century prints, and finally those by Gowin.

Photographs are involved in everything we do, but although the camera obscura dates from the eleventh century, the fixing of an image by means of the action of light dates only from the beginning of the nineteenth century. You can read, for example, Beaumont Newhall’s The History of Photography from 1839 to the Present (1982), but there you find only reproductions of photographs; the exhibition in Chambers enables you to view the gorgeous prints themselves. In connection with the prints from the nineteenth century, art Professor Larry Ligo has prepared typed statements describing different photographic processes (Daguerrotype, woodburytype, etc.). All the prints have captions. Personally, however, I do not like to read anything when I am looking at photographic images; I just like to look at the prints. For, as Dorothea Lange observed, the camera is an instrument that teaches people to see without a camera. Looking at the prints will reveal not only what others have seen, but also should enable you to come to see better yourself.

Emmet Gowin’s photographs are superb. He sees unusually well, and he prints beautifully. I discovered his photographs some years ago through the Virginia Museum in Richmond; I remember being surprised by his circular images in rectangular frames, and by the snapshot-like qualities of some of his early work. Then I suddenly realized that there is something very special indeed about Gowin’s vision. Curiously, his interest in photography was awakened by his looking at a reproduction of Ansel Adams’ “Burnt Stump and New Grass, Sierra Nevada” (you can find a reproduction of that photograph on page 61 of Adams’ book, This is the American Earth). But Gowin does not make picturesque photographs as Adams did; among the photographers who have influenced Gowin he identifies especially Harry Callahan and Frederick Sommer. Finally, Gowin’s vision is his own, as you will discover if you compare his work with that of other photographers.

After you have looked at the prints in the Gallery, you should look at Emmet Gowin: Photographs (Knopf, 1976) and at the recent Corcoran monograph. To learn about Gowin as printer and as professor of visual arts, you might turn first to his statement in Darkroom2 (Lustrum Press, 1978). He will make you aware that photographs can be as distinctive as fingerprints, that “pictures are wonderful because they are made, because they are imbued with the feeling of the person making them, and because they are symbolic” and not just representational. You will learn that he feels very close to “early Italian painting and the Northern Expressionism of the Renaissance.” And you will learn how he makes prints, with a conscious awareness of the underpainting procedure of the Renaissance egg tempera technique. For now, however, even if you have seen them already — especially if you have seen them already — go to Chambers, look at those wonderful prints again, and store them in the picture gallery of your brain. The gift of seeing may well be the most precious gift of all.