the 10-5. 2h 12 dy the ther are Thursday, December 12, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

sey: “...we are making steady progress.” Season picks for the Southern Conference, especially in the fact that you have teams like The Citadel, a team that won 21 games last year and has 4 starters back, and they’re picked to finish ninth. Also, VMI finished second in the Southern Conference tournament finals, and I think they are picked to finish seventh or eighth. So I don’t put a lot of stock in these things. I think the important thing is that we know we have a chance and that if we play well we've got a shot. We need to be more concerned about what happens at the end of the season instead of getting too excited about pre-season polls.

D: What are the things that Davidson has to do well to have a successful year?

H: We have to be more consistent in our overall play than last year. I thought there were times last year when we played very well in some games. We didn’t have many games last year where we played well for the entire 40 minutes and we didn’t have many times when we played four outstanding games in a row. I think the key thing for us is to develop our overall consistency and good play at both the offensive and the defensive end. I think we’ve made some strides in that direction. As far as particular things in the team, of course we need to have a strong inside game. That’s an area where we weren’t too strong last year and we’ve worked really hard on that area in the pre-season.

D: I talked with you last year about the potential change in conference and the void Davidson’s basketball program seems to be entering. Have you heard anything new about the future for Davidson concerning the Southern Conference or any other conference?

H: I really haven’t. It’s our desire in speaking to the administration (of the Southern Conference) to convey the hope of myself as a coach and our administrators (of Davidson) that the Southern Conference would allow Davidson to maintain its membership in basketball and all sports other than football. We do have another year after this year in which we will be playing in the Southern Conference because we are going to honor our football contracts with the Southern Conference schools for another year. Beyond that, I guess void is probably the proper word. I’m not sure exactly what direction we are going to go. Hopefully, the administrators of the Southern Conference schools would realize that Davidson can make a nice contribution and would be an asset if allowed to stay in the Southern Conference.

D: With that in mind, what is the long-term outlook for Davidson basketball?

H: We think we are making steady progress. We feel like each one of our recruiting classes has become a little more talented than the previous class. We’ve been able to maintain a lot of continuity in our recruiting with the guys staying in the program. Right now our first recruiting class is all seniors. We have six seniors and all are on schedule for graduation in the spring. They have all been solid players and solid citizens and have represented our program well. However, we feel that if we are going to make the strides we want to make in our basketball program, our level of talent needs to improve while we maintain the character and maintain the discipline, the same type of academics we've had from the first class on.

D: Recently Davidson announced it will complete a new auditorium for basketball (scheduled to open in time for the 1988-89 season). What is your reaction to this announcement?

H: We think this is one of the greatest things to happen since we’ve been here. The present facilities have really been a liability to our program in many ways. Number one, from the standpoint of recruiting, most prospective student-athletes are not excited by an old building in which to play. Also, it often creates problems for the basketball program in terms of practice because there is only one area on campus where you can have indoor workouts. This creates problems at times in scheduling. So we think the new fieldhouse is probably one of the most exciting things to happen in the four years we've been here and it’s definitely going to be an asset to our program.

D: What are the specific goals of the team this season?

H: To win the Southern Conference tournament. That’s what we went into the pre-season with, that was our goal established at the end of last year. We felt that last year our record did...Not reflect progress, often times in athletic contests it is so different from other things that people do; they can’t see success unless you win. Yet to us, though winning is very important, as coaches we need to evaluate our success and progress in other ways than just winning games because, as we say, winning is final, and success is a journey, not a destination. We felt we made a lot of progress last year. We were in competition last year and had a lot of chances to win, we weren't blown out by people. So, with that feeling at the end of the season, knowing we were in there, that we were in the competition, we knew that if we could come back with a little more experience, a little more know-how, improvement, then maybe those close losses would become wins and then we could have a viable shot at winning the Southern Conference championship and with that get an NCAA tournament bid.

Sports Information
By ANDY BARRON

Bill Sellers

Freshman Bill Sellers represents the entire Davidson basketball recruiting class for 1989. In contrast to last year’s swarm of seven recruits, Sellers must carry all the burdens of the freshman class. Though Sellers may be the only recruit, he is a big catch for the Wildcats. At 6'11", 240 pounds, Sellers stands three inches over the next tallest member of the basketball team. Sellers definitely adds size to the 1985-86 edition of Wildcat basketball.

Sellers hails from Stow, Ohio where he led Stow High School to a 22-1 record his senior year. He collected many individual honors his senior year including first team All-Metro (Akron), first team All-County, third team All-State and an honorable mention Street and Smith All-American. He averaged 13 points and 11 rebounds over his senior campaign.

On his adjustment from high school to college basketball, Sellers has been playing with and against “bigger, stronger and quicker players.” With so many experienced players returning for Davidson this season, Sellers will be eased into a playing role. “Right now I'm just learning the system and trying to give the team some good minutes off the bench,” Sellers said. “I’m learning to play against players with more size and skill than I played against in high school. I'm trying to get some experience and working to be the best player I can.”

As for the team’s chances this season, Sellers felt this year could be very successful if the team “can find the right chemistry. There is a lot of talent on the team,” Sellers said. “If we are able to gel as a team, we should make a strong run in the conference this season.”

D: Any final comments you would like to make to the fans or student body?

H: The basic things I would like to say to the students are, one, thanks for the participation that they have had over the years in Davidson basketball. It’s really noticeable when we play a game in Johnston Gym or the Charlotte Coliseum when the students are in school and the amount of enthusiasm that our students generate versus playing when the students are not in school. We just played three games in Johnston Gym while the students were gone. While the games were fairly well attended, the enthusiasm wasn't there, the enthusiasm that the students can give to the program. That’s extremely important to us because if we are going to be good, it’s going to come from a collective standpoint. I think it’s something we will want the students to feel like they are also involved in. Right now we are working with a group on campus that represents the fraternities, eating houses, student government, student union, cheerleaders and any other group that would like to be involved that we are calling the Davidson “Fast Break Club.” The intent of this group is to try and generate more enthusiasm and our ultimate goal is to get every Davidson student, faculty member, administrator, etc. to attend a Davidson basketball game so that we could actually pack Johnston Gym. If we could do that, get that number of people in here, then we feel we could generate some real home-court advantage and also our players can get really excited about the fact that we have that kind of support and enthusiasm behind us. We really need this. We’re only asking for maybe an hour and a half, sometimes once a week, sometimes twice. With the type of school we have, while everyone studies and is so intent upon their books, we feel this would be a nice time to break away and really let your hair down and get into it.

Bill Sellers shows his wares to an Erskine guard.