4 Friday, January 18, 1985 / The Davidsonian

Davidson Students Work To Help Poor In Charlotte
By BO TAYLOE

Charlotte traditionally has offered Davidson students respite from academics. But last December, the largest city in the Carolinas saw two contingents from Davidson bypass its malls, restaurants, and bars to work in projects helping the inner-city poor.

Twenty-two students participated in an Awareness Weekend sponsored by the Chapel Committee, whose goal, according to Chaplain Charlie Summers, was to make students “aware of some of the problems faced by the low-income people in inner-city Charlotte, aware of the connection between Christian faith and service, and aware of different kinds of Christian ministries taking place in inner-city Charlotte.” Another 20 students, organized by The Un-Fellowship, traveled to Charlotte to winterize low-income housing.

Christ the King Center in Charlotte’s Optimist Park served as a base of operations for the Awareness Weekend. Students divided into four teams working in a soup kitchen, a food bank, a clothes closet run by the Crisis Assistance Ministry, and a housing renovation project called Habitat for Humanity. The Habitat for Humanity project renovates houses across the country and sells them at no interest to low-income families. Revenues from sales are devoted to other housing projects.

In the afternoon, the Davidson volunteers split into pairs to visit homes in the Optimist Park community and do chores. A lot of wood had to be cut, explained junior Dee Reynolds, “because so many of these families depend on wood for heat.” Students found a warm receptiveness in the people of Optimist Park. “I saw how appreciative people are who don’t have that much, how open and thankful, compared to us who seem to lose gratitude the more we have,” senior Dan Lindsey said. Summers said personal contact stood as a major goal of the weekend.

As head of Christ the King Center, Episcopal minister Richard Banks hosted the Awareness Weekend and shared with students some of his ideas of inner-city ministry. Looking back on his expectations for the weekend, Banks said he had wanted the students to gain “a deeper understanding of what poverty is like, what it looks like, what it smells and feels like. “Another aspect,” he added, “was that a lot of the people in this community had to give to them. There was giving and receiving on both sides. We weren’t sure who was the greatest receiver.”

Summers stressed the weekend as an educational experience. “There was not a paternalistic overtone of, ‘we’re here to do you a favor,’” he said, “learning took precedence over work.” The Awareness Weekend officially concluded after students joined in a Sunday morning worship service at Christ the King Center, but four volunteers returned one weekend to continue working on a Habitat for Humanity project. Eric Ogden said, “it doesn’t really hit you how much better off we are... you find out you’re kind of callous to that.”

Winterizing homes in the same Charlotte neighborhood, as Ogden did, were six teams of students organized by the Un-Fellowship. Lindsey, who returned after the Awareness Weekend to coordinate the effort, said each team tackled two houses from a list of low-income families provided by the Charlotte Area Fund. Supplied with insulating kits by the United Way, the students stretched plastic sheets over windows and lined doors with rubber strips. “I don’t think there are enough opportunities to do things that have nothing to do with the campus or getting a job,” senior Anne Miano said. “It’s not the kind of thing you can write down on a résumé that you achieved in college, but it’s the kind of thing you'll remember. It’s practical application with this growing that you’re supposed to be doing. “The most important thing was that someone was coming in who didn’t have to.”

Explaining the group’s motivation, Lindsey said, “One important emphasis of Christian fellowship should be service. We were happy to have the opportunity to serve the community and to reach out to students at Davidson.”

Reported Rape Raises Campus Awareness, Concern
(continued from page 1)

tions and communication. “The mixture of changing roles, identity crises, alcohol, immaturity, or certain flashes of immaturity, the desire to be accepted, and the inability of some people to communicate very often how they feel, all of these things together will create a difficult situation.”

Ross described the difficulty of advising women on campus to take precautions against rape without exaggerating its danger. “I don’t want people to be hysterical,” she said. But she complained of the failure of many women to take quite normal precautions such as locking doors at night. “They want as much freedom as possible,” she said. “Suggestions we make suggest limited freedom.”

Ross said she believes the administration must place greater emphasis than in the past on issues such as rape because students expect administrators to be more involved in these areas than was the case 10 or 15 years ago. “All we can do is be aware that we are now more called on to be involved. Students do expect us to be involved.”

The current attention being paid to rape at Davidson, she believes, is due to a nationwide focus on the problem on college campuses. Davidson participated in a national study on rape among colleges selected at random before Thanksgiving. Members of Davidson’s RAPE Committee met last Saturday with the Director of the Charlotte Rape Crisis Center.

OCCRL To Decide On Proposal
(continued from page 1)having “two houses” on the Court — the Commons and a social fraternity house. Yesterday the PCC voted 12-0 in favor of allowing SPE to have a Court house if it serves meals. In another vote, the PCC voted 0-11-1 against SPE operating only a social fraternity on the Court. Simpson will take the PCC’s decision to the CCRL next Monday; the CCRL will consider SPE’s proposal in greater detail and may make a final decision then. “The purpose of Patterson Court is at stake here,” Simpson said. SPE’s proposal, he said, clashes with the Court's traditional nature. “It could be a good thing — what people may want.” He said the CCRL will establish “who can operate social houses, if they are allowed on the Court, . . . and who will select the groups and under what criteria.” Simpson emphasized that the PCC is concerned that allowing a social fraternity on campus would throw off “the unity and equitable balance of the houses on the court.” Ultimately, Simpson said, students determine the future of Patterson Court, and the preference for small-group dining may be changing to social houses that would require less commitment. SPE president Steve MacMillan said his fraternity’s proposal “represents a positive step a liberal arts institution should offer. Patterson Court should provide certain alternatives and options, and I feel we will offer an alternative.” “We are moving our physical location, but not our eating arrangements,” MacMillan said. SPE, he said, is giving up the advantage of not abiding by the rules of self-selection if it moves to Patterson Court. He feels that the Court would be the “best location to operate a social facility... . The Commons has provided a better opportunity for small-group dining.” That SPE’s proposal would threaten Patterson Court, MacMillan said, “I think they’re using that as an excuse to keep us off.”

Rape (continued from page 1)

officers, sources said. Warlick said both town and county police forces have jurisdiction in the case, and are cooperating in the investigation. The county police have a “border to border jurisdiction” in Mecklenburg County, according to Warlick, but generally relinquish it in incorporated areas to local police forces. Davidson’s RAPE Committee has been directed to instruct victims to notify county police in cases of rape. Students can reach town police at 892-5131, and county police at 336-2347. and the Charlotte Assistant District Attorney in charge of rape cases, where committee members learned rape crisis and counseling techniques and the legal definition of rape in North Carolina. North Carolina defines rape in two degrees, according to Miano. First degree rape involves one or more assailants and a serious injury or life-threatening situation, or a child under 13 violated by any number of assailants. Second degree rape involves any other circumstance when a woman is forced to have sex against her will. “Admittedly, the laws in North Carolina are not as liberal as they should be, not as progressive,” she said. But she noted the advanced methods used by police in rape investigations and more sensitive attitudes toward rape victims than in the past. One point stressed by Miano and others is the options open to rape victims at Davidson. One is to press criminal charges and pursue the matter legally. The second is to pursue the matter through the College Code of Responsibility system. A third option is to restrict the matter to counseling for the victim and possibly the assailant. According to Ross, the fourth option is not to say anything about the incident. “That’s the choice many women make, but I don’t think that’s the healthy way.” Many campus leaders identified educating the campus population as the most effective deterrent against rape. Women’s Concerns Committee Chairperson Elizabeth Laughlin noted a “tendency, especially on the part of men to say there isn’t a problem, that we’re just creating one.” The Women’s Concerns Committee held a rape seminar Jan. 10 which showed a healthy attendance and response according to Laughlin. But the subject is still not fully acknowledged,” she said. Miano said men need to become more familiar with the definition of rape. “Guys need to start learning when she says no, it’s no, and when you press it any further, you’re moving closer toward rape.” Many observers described the alleged rape last week as generating concern about the issue of rape at Davidson, and how to prevent it. According to Housing Director Bill Bolding, “It’s unfortunate that we have to have such a situation as this” to focus attention on security issues. According to Miano, “It’s unfortunate that the incident occurred, but because it has, maybe more people will be aware of what rape is.”

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental and spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to help each individual child develop his or her potential should apply. One must have the ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities. College students, teachers, and coaches should apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing and tripping are extras in our excellent program. For further information write or call G. William Climer, Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 7, Box 50, Clover, S.C., 29710 (803-831-2121).