Friday, April 26, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Who's On First?

Coach Greer’s Accomplishments Can't Be Overestimated

By ANDY BARRON

Any of you who weren’t out watching the Davidson-Western Carolina baseball games this weekend weren't doing anything. The three-game extravaganza
that decided the champion of the Southern Conference’s South Division lived up to its advance billing as a weekend packed
with exciting baseball. All three games were close. More importantly, Davidson swept the series and won the division championship. As
Fernando would say, “Guys, you looked MARVELOUS!”

This weekend capped the four-year overhaul of Davidson’s baseball program by Coach George Greer. Any team that wins a championship
passes out thanks to anyone who ever had anything to do with the program. Congratulations are due to the managers,
aides, and players, especially the players, that made this season a success. Yet, in the midst of the euphoria, one
can’t overestimate the accomplishments of Coach Greer. Every player on the team came to Davidson because of George Greer’s recruiting
talents. The hitting explosion that lit up the new scoreboard occurred because of Coach Greer’s skill at coaching hitters. In
fact, the new scoreboard stands due to Coach Greer’s organizational skills. George Greer is definitely my choice for Southern Conference
Coach of the Year. Congratulations team; but more importantly, congratulations Coach Greer.

Though the baseball team knows it is in the Southern Conference play-offs, the women’s tennis team must wait to hear
if they will participate in the NCAA Division III championships. The defending National Champions are 18-4, with all but one
loss coming at the hands of Division I schools, and are currently ranked number one in the nation (NCAA Division
III). The team is confident of receiving a bid and continues preparing to defend last year’s championship.

Now that I’ve finished patting backs, it’s time to pull up my pants and correct some errors. First, Alfredo Griffin
no longer plays for the Toronto Blue Jays. I still believe the Jays will win it all, however, and I
would like to thank Steve Byers for pointing out this mistake, again and again and again. More importantly, new head
football Coach Vic Gatto played at Harvard, not Yale as was printed in the transcript of my interview with Gatto.
This was a clerical error and I apologize. Steve, guess you missed that one.

Predictions

Time for hockey and basketball predictions. Hockey and NBA basketball are an appropriate pair; I don’t care about the NBA
and most people around here don’t care about hockey. Nevertheless, I'll gaze into my crystal ball and give you my
champions.

Edmonton will beat Philadelphia in six games to win the Stanley Cup. The Great One (that’s Wayne Gretzky to all
you barbarians who didn't know) won't be what wins Edmonton the Cup; the overall team talent of Edmonton will beat
the Broad Street Bullies. Since the play-offs remain far from over, you'll have to store this prediction in the ol’
memory banks; that is, if you care about my prophecies.

To me, basketball season ends at the conclusion of the NCAA tournament. The NBA play-offs cannot hope to equal the
excitement of the Villanova-Georgetown game that ended another fantastic winter of college hoops. Just to give everyone something to argue
with me about, I think Los Angeles will beat Boston 4-3.

If I were a Braves fan, I'd be a bit concerned. As of this writing, Atlanta is 5-7 despite the
fact that Dale Murphy can do no wrong with his bat. What's going to happen to the Braves when Murphy
cools off? Bruce Sutter isn't going to be much of an asset if the Braves’ starting pitching can’t give him
the lead.

Now that I've riled up all the Braves’ fans, I can go on to something else. How about the Hagler-Hearns
brawl. Somebody must have told these guys that they were only fighting five rounds. The fight was so short that
it was shown on TV twice on Monday night. I think Marvelous Marvin Hagler should host Saturday Night Live. Fernando
(making his second appearance in this week's column) could start their interview by saying, “Marvelous, darling, you look . .
. bald.”

For personal interview call:

372-2794
372-2853
Mr. Marrash

MOTHER'S DAY

MAY 12

THE VILLAGE STORE

OFFERS A WIDE SELECTION

GIFT WRAP

CRAFTS FOR MOM

“FREE

“PATIO GLASSES
“PATIO CANDLES
“PICNIC BASKETS
FABRIC FRAMES
“TRAVEL ACCESSORIES
COUNTRY DIARY

Local pottery and other Mother's Day Gifts.

Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St. Davidson, N.C. 28036
892-7521

First Union National Bank

P.O. Box 39
Davidson

Cornelius

Huntersville
