Friday, October 4, 1985

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Artists Series welcomes Davidson native for first concert

By BILL BUGG

The Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, directed by Leo Driehuys, performed works by Mozart and Beethoven Wednesday night in Love Auditorium to begin Davidson College’s 1985-86 Artists Series. The concert featured clarinetist Daniel McKelway, a native of Davidson.

Driehuys opened the concert with Mozart’s Overture to Don Giovanni, K. 527. The opera, Don Giovanni, is a rendition of the ancient legend of a man who, upon slaying the father of a young woman he wanted to seduce, is dragged to hell by the ghost of the victim. The first part of the Overture introduces the themes of the opera, but the material of the second part is not repeated.

Daniel McKelway performed the second work of the program, Mozart’s Concerto for Clarinet in A Major, K. 622. Mozart was largely responsible for giving the clarinet the prominence it now has among woodwind instruments. He wrote three major works featuring the clarinet, including the Concerto for Clarinet. McKelway played with confidence and great control in illustrating the instrument’s capacity to blend well with strings.

Beethoven’s Symphony No. 7 in A Major, Op. 92 was the evening's final work. The symphony, first performed in 1813 as a University of Vienna benefit concert for soldiers wounded in a battle against Napoleon, drives with great force toward survival, toward life, in the face of a great enemy. Leo Driehuys handled the great work brilliantly, allowing its force and drive to affect the listener.

Driehuys was born in the Netherlands, where he studied piano and oboe at the Royal Conservatory of Music. He made his conducting debut with the Netherlands Opera in 1961, and was appointed conductor of the Gelders Orkest in Arnhem, Holland, in 1970. In 1977, Driehuys was appointed music director of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra.

McKelway: A Profile

Clarinetist Daniel McKelway, 20-year-old son of Adelaide and Religion Professor Alexander McKelway, performed Mozart’s Concerto for Clarinet. After beginning to play the clarinet when he was eight years old, he continued his clarinet studies at the North Carolina School for the Arts. He is currently a junior at the New England Conservatory, where he is studying under Harold Wright, principal clarinetist of the Boston Symphony Orchestra.

---

We have had too much success simply to cut off and start over. It’s an evolutionary process rather than a revolutionary process, as I see it. On the side of servanthood, it’s a little bit more complicated because that’s not so easily quantifiable. We can tell how we're doing on the side of scholarships. We can tell by the quality and productivity of our faculty, the quality and productivity and comparative accomplishments of our students. But, on the servanthood side, I think it is an obligation of all of us in the college who are in the position of teaching and administering to remind our colleagues in the college who are students of the obligations that they have to the larger society. I’m not hesitant to say to somebody, “Hey, haven't you thought about this or that avenue of service,” and I do that without pause. And a number of other folks at the college do the same. Also, as a part of scholarship, we remind ourselves of the changing world around us and of the places in that changing world where people with a Davidson education can make a difference. That is not always to say be a missionary or a doctor or some “serving” vocation. It is to say every one of us who graduates from Davidson College will find himself or herself involved in the life of a particular community for the rest of our lives.

---

Shalom Christian Book Store (continued from page 4)lives. In many of those communities, the Davidson folks are the backbone. They are the ones who are depended upon because of their interest in folks, because of their personal integrity, and because of the talent they have to keep that community going in a positive direction. For me, one of the most impressive things about this job is the incredible wealth of talent that is invested in such a positive way in towns and cities all around the country. You never really know how much a person has learned to serve, but then somebody pops up who was in your class twenty-five years ago and all of a sudden here is a person who has taken on the Red Cross or a particular housing project in some community. And the churches seem to be populated with Davidson folks who somewhere along the way discovered that the religious aspect of life is one of great significance and therefore take leadership there as well. I don’t know what we will do in these years ahead that will be different in regard to either scholarship or servanthood. But, I think that I will feel myself a failure in my efforts at Davidson if we don’t see continuity with that rich heritage as we move toward the future.

McKelway’s third concerto appearance, his previous two being with the orchestras of the North Carolina School for the Arts and the New England Conservatory. He was a winner of the 1984 Young Concert Artists International Auditions and the 1983 National Arts Recognition and Talent Search. McKelway made his Washington, D.C., debut last February, and will make his New York debut this January at the 96th Street Y. His musical ambitions are to combine teaching and performing, particularly as a soloist and chamber musician.

Davidsonian Doughnuts

And you thought The Davidsonian was the only thing you got delivered to your door.

* Next Friday *

BUFFET —ALL YOU CAN EAT—

Mooresville’s First And Finest Italian Restaurant

KING Of PIZZA BUFFET

BUFFET

Sunday 12 Noon - 9:30 P.M.
Tues., Wed. & Thurs. 5 P.M. - 9:30 P.M.

24 SOUTH BROAD STREET—MOORESVILLE—663-3000

Now you know — we have 1500 different Christian titles in stock — But did you know we have film and film developing? Compare our prices:

Color Film Developing:
Contour Prints
12 exp. $2.59
24 exp. $3.14
36 exp. $4.17
Disc $6.42

Glossy Prints
12 exp. $3.28
24 exp. $5.59
36 exp. $8.48

Our film prices are great too! Hours: Tues.-Fri. 9:30-5:30; Sat. 9:30-5 p.m.

Lunch Buffet—Mon.-Sat., 11 AM-2:30 PM $3.39
Meal Includes:
SPAGHETTI 100% Durham Wheat
PIZZA Still Mooresville’s Finest
OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE
SPICY PEPPERONI
FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD
CANADIAN BACON
PARMESAN—ROMANO CHEESE
ITALIAN SAUSAGE
CHOICE BEEF
FRESHLY DICED GREEN PEPPERS
SWEET ONIONS
SALAD BAR 15 items
FRESH VEGETABLES
DELICIOUS FRUITS
FLAVORFUL MEATS
SOUP OF THE DAY
RICH DRESSINGS
CREAM OF POTATO
VEGETABLE BEEF
CHICKEN NOODLE
CREAM OF MUSHROOM
MINESTRONE
CLAM CHOWDER
CHILI CON CARNE
CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE
HAWAIIAN SALAD

Study abroad at the ITHACA COLLEGE LONDON CENTER

SEMESTER OR YEAR PROGRAM
ITHACA COLLEGE CREDIT
BRITISH FACULTY

Visits to the theatre, museums, galleries, schools, social and political institutions are an integral part of the curriculum.

COURSES — British and European studies are offered in literature, history, art history, drama, music, sociology, education, psychology, communications, and politics. Special program offered in Drama. Internships available to qualified students in International Business, Social Services, Communications, Political Science, and Economics.

For further information write:
International Programs
Ithaca College
Ithaca, New York 14850