Friday, February 15, 1985 / The Davidsonian 13

OPINIONS

Chaplain To Visit Nicaraguan War Zone

Charles Summers

When you return from Spring Break, I will be in Nicaragua. From March 10 through 22, I will take part
in a Witness for Peace trip. This is a program organized by Christians in the United States and in Nicaragua.
Our hosts in Nicaragua will be the Organization of Evangelical Churches (CEPAD). The purpose of our trip is:

- To develop an ever-broadening, prayerful, biblically-based community of United States citizens who stand with the Nicaraguan people by acting
in continuous nonviolent resistance to U.S. overt or covert intervention in their country.
- To mobilize public opinion and help change U.S. foreign policy to one which fosters justice, peace, and friendship.
- To welcome others in this endeavor who vary in spiritual approach but are one with us in purpose.

The program began when a group of U.S. church people were visiting the war zone along the northern border of
Nicaragua. While they were in the region, the contras ceased their attacks. One participant wrote, “Our presence in the war
zone was a source of great comfort to the Nicaraguan people, and offered some degree of protection for them while
we were there. We decided that we should make this presence permanent, and that we should do so in a
very public and visible way both to express solidarity with the victims of our foreign policy and to try to
raise that policy for public debate.” For almost two years now, volunteers have gone to Nicaragua every two weeks as
a part of Witness for Peace.

While we are in the country, we will stay in Managua for a few days. There we will talk to
as many different people as possible: government officials, leaders of the Opposition, members of the press (both pro- and anti-Sandinista),
clergy, and members of various churches. Then we will travel to the northern border area, where we will stay in
the homes of villagers. We will hold a prayer vigil along the border with Honduras, praying for: an end to
the hostility; for reconciliation between the various factions; and for God’s peace to become real in that war-torn nation. We
will also take part in some local work projects. Of the 21 people who are going in my delegation, four
speak fluent Spanish.

Why?

Having said all this as a description of the Witness for Peace, people still ask me, “But why are you
going?” As is often true in my life, I have a lot of reasons, but I’m not sure which is
the ONE main reason.

I am a Christian who is committed to peacemaking and non-violence in our destructive world. As a follower of Jesus,
I look for ways to avert violence, to work for reconciliation, to do good and not harm. This program challenges
me to act on my beliefs in a concrete way.

I am a citizen of the United States. I presently believe that our policy toward Nicaragua is wrong, both politically
and morally. There is no justification for our making war on this nation by proxy. There are too many good
avenues of negotiation with the Sandinistas that have been left untried. I am going to Nicaragua as a statement of
protest, and as an opportunity to learn more about the situation there.

I am a parent. My children sleep safely at night. Presently, the peasants who live along the Honduran border have
been subject to attacks by the “contras.” Farmers are shot in their fields, hospitals and schools are burned, the granaries
in villages are destroyed (and with them the main food supply and seed for the next crop). Teachers and doctors
are primary targets of these attacks. I cannot continue to sit by and just write letters of protest to Washington.

Finally, I am a citizen of the world. I have a responsibility to work for peace between nations and races.
The events of the next few months will decide whether we go to war with Nicaragua (either by proxy or
in person), or whether we begin to negotiate our differences with this neighbor. I hope that my trip will play
a small part in encouraging conversation and negotiation between our governments.

Would you like to help?

1. Write your representatives in Washington. Tell them that your college chaplain has gone to Nicaragua and why. Ask them
not to provide any more funds for the contras. (U.S. House of Representatives, Washington, D.C. 20515 or U.S. Senate, Washington,
D.C. 20510).
2. Keep our delegation in your prayers. Remember the Nicaraguan people in your prayer. Pray for an end to the
fighting.
3. You may send a gift to the people of Nicaragua: school supplies (pencils, ballpoint pens, pads of paper); or
medicine (aspirin, Tylenol, cough syrup, vitamins, hydrogen peroxide, antiseptics, gauze pads, and bandages). I will take a small suitcase of
these gifts and will deliver them to the Protestant church group (CEPAD) which is our sponsor in Nicaragua.
4. You may send contributions to Witness for Peace, 1414 Woodland Drive, Durham, N.C. 27701.

Upon my return, I look forward to answering your questions about my trip. To use an Old Testament farewell (a
bit out of context), “May God watch over us, while we are apart one from the other.”

Summers is the Davidson College Chaplain.

Abortion Bombings Are Fanatical Acts

Robert Lutz

Upon reading the article in the “Opinions” section of the Feb. 1st Davidsonian by MikeStephens entitled “Bombing of Abortion Clinics
is not Senseless,” I was greatly disturbed. Stephens refers to the bombings as a “cry for help,” and further says
that if one “life” were saved “then all the trouble — even 80 years in prison — is worthwhile.” I
happen to be quite familiar with the object and feel that there are several things that need to be said.
My father, a Presbyterian minister of 19 years, runs an abortion clinic. The label that jumps to my mind when
I think of those responsible for the clinic bombings is “terrorist.” When I look in Webster’s New Collegiate Dictionary, my
suspicions are confirmed. It defines terrorism as “the systematic use of terror as a means of coercion.” The people responsible
for these bombings certainly deserve the label of “terrorist,” for it is their intention to coerce those responsible for performing
abortions and those attempting to have an abortion not to engage in these activities. Their means of coercion — terror.
Bombings, threats, kidnappings — all these performed in the name of God to put a little terror into my day.
Especially when I think of what might happen to my father.

The methods used by Right-to-Life groups in recent years have become quite frightening. The bombings come to mind first, along
with the occasional kidnapping of a clinic director and spouse. But there are many tactics that go unreported which I
can speak of from first-hand knowledge. My father’s clinic has had to deal with picketers abusing prospective patients, constant harassment
— by this I mean threatening calls and letters, and in one case the falsification of evidence by a Right-to-Life
group to try and indict one of the clinic’s surgeons for manslaughter. I cannot help but have little or no
respect for anyone who supports any of these methods — even bombing. I can respect someone's beliefs however, but it
is trying when one feels it is their God-given duty to tread on my belief in the freedom of choice
by the use of violence and terror.

There are several reasons why I support the freedom of choice on an issue like abortion. One of the strongest
pro-choice arguments I can think of is that, like it or not, the fetus is a part of a woman's
body. A woman's body and what she does with it should not be the domain of the state. It is
her own personal business what she does with it. The state has no right to be the judge of the
private reasons why a woman might seek an abortion. At my father’s clinic they provide counseling and attempt to pursue
other alternatives to abortion. I feel that it should be a last resort, and that one should only turn to
abortion once all other avenues have been exhausted. There does exist the potential for abuse, but I don’t feel that
is a strong enough reason to deny someone an abortion when they have nowhere else to turn.

I find it hard to believe that those in the Right-to-Life movement would be cruel enough to force a teen
or a pre-teen to have a child when that could ruin her future. A person who finds herself pregnant due
to incest, rape or just plain ignorance should not be forced to carry a fetus to term. There are myriads
of other situations where it would be almost inhumane to bring a child into the world. The state cannot be
the judge of these situations, for to do so would definitely violate a woman's freedom to privacy. The image of
the state wielding that kind of power is frightening — as is the image of religious terrorists trying to wield
that type of power by the use of bombs and threats.

There are more constructive things to be done in a world as full of pain as this one is than
planting bombs. There are better ways to fight abortion than with violence. Do these terrorists give any thought to the
over 100,000 children in America waiting to be adopted? The crippled and minority children who no one wants to adopt?
Have they ever thought of aiding the poor who have little or no knowledge of birth control, thereby helping to
prevent one of the 1.5 million abortions performed annually? These alternatives seem much safer than planting pipe bombs and God's
purpose might be served a little better by spreading kindness than by spreading hate.

The violence is senseless. It in no way serves to promote that cause and only adds the labels of “terrorist”
and “religious fanatic” to those people in the Right-to-Life movement with a real, healthy concern for what they feel are
negative aspects of legal abortion. Those are people that I can respect, for their goal moves them to act in
a responsible manner. A responsible and caring manner, one that is so lacking in those who use and/or support violence
as a means to an end.

Lutz is a sophomore from Jacksonville, Fla.
