Stockdale selected as director of college relations

Vice President for Development John Griffith announced the selection of Jerry S. Stockdale as Director of College Relations this Tuesday.
Stockdale, currently Director of Select Gifts for the College, will assume the post on October 1.

Stockdale was offered the appointment after three weeks of intensive interviews and deliberation by the Search Committee for the Director.
“I am delighted that Mr. Stockdale accepted the offer,” Griffith said. “Mr. Stockdale emerged (from the search process) as the
individual who fits the needs of the office most appropriately. His unusual creativity, strong organizational skills, outstanding writing abilities, and
his vision will help move that office and that function to a new level of excellence.”

Griffith stated that a major challenge for Stockdale will be “to work with the self-study document of the College and
the strategic planning process of the Trustees and the President to translate those into a course of action for a
comprehensive public relations effort.”

Stockdale is confident that he will successfully undertake this challenge. Having served as Director of Select Gifts since 1982, he
feels that he has “a tremendous advantage by having insight into past problems and potential for growth and redirection.”

“The job of our office as I see it will be to present an accurate picture of Davidson to the
outside world,” Stockdale said. “By no means does this involve creating an image, but rather taking what Davidson is and
communicating that internally and externally, making sure that what outsiders see and hear about Davidson is really what Davidson is
all about.”

Stockdale’s initial plans for the Office of College Relations include making a complete reexamination of all college publications, establishing closer
ties with North and South Carolina media, and working to develop a level of professionalism within the office. “We have
support from the highest levels of the administration for a change in this office along the lines of the report
of the Committee to Evaluate the Communications Office,” Stockdale said. “In the past, the office has had a fairly low
profile, and has not been accorded the esteem and respect that there ought to be in such an office. I
hope to turn that around in the next few years.”

Stockdale is a native of Columbus, Ohio. He received his B.A. at Princeton University in 1973 and his M.A. in
English Language and Literature at Indiana University in 1976. Before coming to Davidson, he served as Communications Supervisor for Belk
Stores Services, Inc. in Charlotte; marketing communications supervisor for the Wix Corporation in Gastonia; and English teacher at the Gaston
Day School in Gastonia. He is married to the former Jeanette Eilers and has a son, Jeff, and a daughter,
Jenny. The Stockdales reside in Charlotte.

Stockdale also writes editorials for local and national newspapers, is president-elect of the Family Support Center, Inc. of Charlotte, and
is president of the Princeton Alumni Association of Charlotte.

CROP Walk organizers seek pledges

For the third year in a row, Davidson students will be participating in Crop Walk, a national effort to relieve
hunger and poverty in the world. The walk, a part of the relief programs of Church World Services, will be
held October 6 and consists of a 10 km walk through the Davidson community. The students and members of the
community who are participating in the walk solicit pledges from the Davidson student body and members of the Davidson community.

This year’s Crop Walk director, sophomore Dee Reynolds, says he hopes to have 200 participants the day of the walk
and raise at least $5000. Twenty-five percent of the money goes to Mecklenburg County's “Meals on Wheels” program for the
elderly, and the remaining 75 percent goes to Church World Services. This organization raised over $45,000,000 last year for relief
efforts and will use its 75 percent for developing countries with food supply problems, teaching people modern farming and food
preparation methods as well as introducing them to modern farming and cooking equipment.

This is Reynolds’ third year working with Crop Walk, working through the Y-Student Services. He sees the walk not only
as a way to raise badly-needed money, but to show people how much their help is needed. Says Reynolds: “I
see it as a way to do something about world hunger, and learn about the problem.”

Registration for the walk will begin at 1:30 p.m. on the village green, the walk starting at 2 or 2:30
p.m. For further information, there will be a table set up in Chambers mornings until the Friday before the walk.

New housing director plans policy changes

Davidson's new Director of Housing, Tom Jennings, began work officially on August 28. Jennings intends to focus on improving dormitory
conditions during the next few years. He said that the administration is particularly concerned by recent complaints from parents and
students about the state of the dorms, and that most of the policy changes he will be implementing will address
this problem. He cited the new “room condition” and “public area damage” reports aimed at monitoring housing conditions during the
course.of the year. Also on the agenda are policy changes involving lofts conforming to fire safety codes and charges for
roommate switches. Jennings said that he looked for a school with Davidson's small, liberal arts atmosphere as an undergraduate, and
that he finds Davidson students and administrators to be “bright, engaging, politically active people.” His interests include biking — he
can be seen riding daily between his home in Davidson and the housing office — and playing tennis. Jennings particularly
enjoys playing the guitar and singing in public. He has played in talent shows and coffee houses and hopes to
find more performing opportunities in the future.

Originally a native of Dover, Delaware, a town he compares with Davidson and Statesville, Jennings completed his undergraduate work at
James Madison University in 1982. He has BS and MA degrees in “Counseling and Student Personnel,” a branch of psychology.
Jennings worked for 4 years on residence halls at James Madison and most recently worked as a Residence Coordinator at
UNC-Charlotte, a position similar to his new position at Davidson, involving RA hiring and training, working with housekeeping, and formulating
housing policy.

Material contributed by Andrea Gross

Peter Bridges discusses South African policies

Peter Bridges discussed American policy toward South Africa Monday night in the latest of the Dean Rusk Lectures. He tried
to simplify this difficult area. He stated that it is in America’s best interest to support democracy and equality in
South Africa. He added that Reagan’s limited sanctions show that America wants change and is prepared to help obtain it.
The brief talk seemed to have raised more questions than answers. The questions concerned topics such as conservative engagements involved
in South Africa, and whether violence in South Africa should be justified. Bridges stated, “Americans stand for peaceful change... we
need to be builders, not destroyers. We cannot admit violence is the only way to progress.” Bridges is a career
diplomat, who served in Moscow, in Italy as the number two man at the American embassy, in Prague, and presently
as US ambassador to Somalia.

Material contributed by Aaron Levine.

Chemistry department receives new spectrometer

The Davidson College chemistry department has recently acquired a time-correlated, single-photon counting spectrometer which will provide many new opportunities for
students here and in the region. The instrument will aid research in photobiology and photochemistry at Davidson and elsewhere, according
to Associate Professors of Chemistry Merlyn Schuh and Felix Carroll. The spectrometer traces — on a time scale of 1
billionth of a second — the way a molecule changes when it is exposed to light. According to Schuh, it
has great potential in revealing basic knowledge of how molecules process energy. Professor Carroll said, “This is a sophisticated electronic
instrument with computer-controlled data analysis that will illustrate for new students many of the principles of instruments that will be
developed in the future.” He added that one of last year's students has already become very proficient with the spectrometer
and will continue to use the instrument this year.

The chemistry department purchased the spectrometer at a cost of $50,000 with grants received by Carroll and Schuh over the
past eighteen months. The grants included $33,627 from the National Science Foundation and $15,000 from the Camille and Henry Dreyfus
Foundation and other sources. The instrument will be of considerable use not only to Davidson students, but to students in
North Carolina and the three surrounding states as well. Already, a faculty member at Bowman Gray School of Medicine in
Winston-Salem has used it in his studies of protein interaction. Other uses have included the study of smog formation by
Professor Schuh and solar energy capture research conducted by Carroll. Three Davidson students are currently using the spectrometer in their
research. Schuh said that it should enhance students’ opportunities for graduate work and fellowships.

Material contributed by Keith Finch.

Elections to be held on Tuesday

Elections for the following positions will be held on Tuesday, October 1: freshman class senators, all dorm senators (three from
Belk and one from each of the other dorms), and three off-campus senators. The Elections Council wants to remind all
students of election procedures and their responsibilities as a voter in this election. Balloting will take place from 9 a.m.
until 3 p.m. in the College Union and in Chambers on the first floor. Each person is reminded that they
may only vote once for only those races in which they are eligible to vote. Each voter is also required
to sign the voter registration form. Belk residents are reminded that they may vote for all three senators — two
freshmen and one upperclassman — no matter which class they belong to. We hope that all students will exercise their
right to vote on Tuesday and will be responsible by following the above election procedures.

Sentelle Residents: Because of qualification requirements, there were no candidates eligible this week for Sentelle senator. Sign-ups are reopened until
October 1 and the election for this position will be held October 8.

Material provided by Mickey McDonald.

Friday, September 27, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN
