The Davidsonian
Volume LXXIV, Number 17
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, March 29, 1985

Beadsie New SGA President
By TED WILSON

For the first time in Davidson College history, the student body this week elected a woman as Student Government Association president. Junior Beadsie Woo won a run-off election against junior Edward Hay, and sophomore Christie Johnson was elected vice president.

Although she is the first woman to hold the top position in the SGA, Woo said her election “is nothing outside of the trend,” as women lead the Y-Student Service Corps, Quips and Cranks, the Honor Council, and hold other top posts in organizations such as the Union Board.

She said the SGA plans to re-install the SGA Charter and Bylaws Committee to make the bylaws “a tighter document.” The SGA will also conduct a “self-study, to look at the bylaws and the internal structure” of the organization. She hopes the SGA can determine “why we're breaking down” in certain areas and why the SGA is perceived as “being an ineffectual lobbying force.”

“The SGA has an image problem,” she said. “I don’t know where it originates,” but the self-study may reveal “what we are doing and not doing so we can get to the root of the problem.” She said she can’t predict specific revisions but there may be “structural or attitude changes” as a result of the study.

Woo said the SGA will continue to do “the same types of things, but the perspective will be different” as the organization “will no longer be dominated by men.” Johnson sees a “more positive attitude towards women” though there is still “some animosity towards women.” She said she heard some students express the opinion that they don’t want a woman in both SGA positions. She said the election “shows a positive direction” for women but emphasized that she and Woo were elected not because they were women, but “because we are qualified.”

In addition to conducting the self-study, and trying to improve its image, the SGA may address Davidson’s athletics and the possibility of having the

Microscope Use Stopped
By DAVID VAN PELT

The Biology Department has suspended the use of its ISI-40 Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) indefinitely because a service contract for the machine which expired in February has not been renewed, according to Biology Department Chairman John Williamson.

Williamson said faculty research and several student projects have been affected by the suspended use of the SEM, which is used by the Biology and Physics departments. According to Williamson, the SEM, “a fairly sophisticated machine,” is too delicate to be operated without a service contract, which provides for unlimited repairs of the machine for the price of the contract. A contract would cost approximately $4,500 per year, he said, which the Biology department cannot afford.

Senior William Crone is using a light microscope for an independent study project in anatomy this term, after training all last term to be able to use the SEM. He said his research will be affected by the inferiority of the light microscope compared to the SEM. “I’m doing the next best thing to the one I really wanted to do,” he said. “What I find hard to believe is that the College can find no money anywhere for the SEM contract.”

The Biology Department purchased the SEM in the fall of 1982 with $60,000 donated anonymously for the purchase of an electron microscope, Williamson said. Williamson said the Biology Department bought a $72,000 microscope for $60,000 and received a two-year service contract on the new machine. Williamson said that to afford a service contract for the SEM, the Biology Department would have to appropriate money from other areas, such as laboratory funds.football and basketball teams in different conferences, according to Johnson. She said they may also recommend more security systems be implemented. Finally, she said, “the Women’s Impact Study Committee, an ad hoc group of the SGA, will report on the survey they are currently administering. It’s up to the SGA [to act] depending on what the survey results show.” In general, Johnson said, “the attitudes toward women on campus are not bad.”

Suspended Due To Lack Of Funds

“Introductory courses. He said the limited number of students able to use the SEM does not justify such a move. Williamson said he did not know the Biology Department operating budget would be responsible for maintaining the SEM. He said he thought outside funds would be available for the service contract, specifically from a fund designed by the Department Office in 1983 for the maintenance of scientific instruments. Vice President of Development Jack Powers said that this fund does exist but only has several thousand dollars at present. He said the Department office is looking for endowments to maintain the SEM and other technological equipment, but that it receives no “higher priority” than other College programs. “Everyone’s project is the one (continued on page 4)

Biology Department Chairman John Williamson.

SCC To Approve Honor Council Changes In Procedure

By DAVID VAN PELT

The Student Conduct Council is expected to approve changes in Honor Council proceedings at a meeting next Tuesday, as well as discuss other possible modifications of the current system, according to Dean of Students and Chairman of the Student Conduct Council Will Terry. The anticipated changes include rescheduling elections for student solicitors and defense advisors from spring to winter term, though they will continue to take office in the spring. Terry said this change will give solicitors and defense advisors a training period of several months under the guidance of the outgoing officers. Elections for other Honor Council members will still be held in the spring.

The SCC will also approve a restriction requiring Honor Council cases occurring at the end of the school year to be completed during the summer, instead of resuming the following school year as current Council regulations permit. Honor Council Chairperson Nancy Rosselot said this regulation will ensure accurate testimony and prevent the loss of potential witnesses through graduation and study-abroad programs. Both measures were approved unanimously at the Student Conduct Council’s March 19th meeting, but all changes in the Honor Council Code require two votes by the Student Conduct Council at least two weeks apart. Terry said he expects a similar Committee response toward the proposals on Tuesday. The measures will then be sent to President Kuykendall for final approval.

Though Honor Council members do not vote on the Student Conduct Council proposals, Terry said Honor Council members have participated in SCC meetings to evaluate its proposals and make suggestions. Rosselot said the winter election schedule will allow an important training period for new defense advisors and solicitors. Though most defense advisors and solicitors have previously held Honor Council positions, Rosselot thinks the new arrangement will be useful. “Inexperience has never been a big problem (in defense advisors and solicitors). At the same time, this ensures it will be even better,” she said.

Under the new arrangement, defense advisors and solicitors will prepare a manual for their successors explaining Honor Council procedure. Rosselot said this process is done now on a more informal basis. The new time restriction for Honor Council cases occurring at the end of the school year will allow a maximum of 25 days beyond the normal 20-day restriction in effect during the school year, Rosselot said. According to Rosselot, during the school year the Dean's office (continued on page 4)