4 Thursday, December 12, 1985

THE DAVIDSONIAN: Beaufort term proves intensive, stimulating

By NELLE McCORKLE

Twenty Davidson students spent last term at Duke University Marine Laboratory (DUML) in Beaufort, N.C. analyzing mud snails and worm
tubes, watching blue crabs molt, and studying feeding patterns of shore birds. Each student chose an independent research project under
the guidance of biology professor David Grant. Some of the topics were: molting of the blue crab (Kevin Lontz); feeding
patterns of shore birds (Wendy Fulks); and the relationship between mud snails and worm tubes (Eric Strother).

“Contrary to popular belief,” said junior Laurie Osborn, “Beaufort is not a slack term.” Osborn researched “The Effects of Varying
Salinities on the Pumping Rate of Argopecten irradians” (the common bay scallop).

Duke University maintains year-round facilities on Pivers Island, which includes three teaching laboratories, dorms, a library, Bookhout Research Laboratory, and
a boat, all available to Davidson students. Grant heads the program, which began in 1979, on alternate years.

All of this year’s participants are biology or pre-med majors, although Grant said undeclared sophomores who “went on to become
French and English majors” have attended past programs. Students earn three graded biology credits toward their major while at Beaufort,
but they must have already completed Biology 31 and 32. Grant taught two courses (Lower Invertebrates and Current Marine Literature)
which first-time participants were required to take. Seniors Marlys Batten and Robin Scheid, who had attended Davidson’s previous Beaufort program
in fall 1983, took Higher Invertebrates from Grant and wrote library research papers.

For individual research, students used Duke’s facilities, the beach and ocean, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s branch of
the National Marine Fisheries Service located in Beaufort. “Some used the Duke facility for research assistance,” said junior Cindy Whittington.
Although enrolled in separate classes, she said, “We got to know the Duke students.”

Osborn said, “It was my best term at Davidson. I don’t know that you could say that since it wasn’t
at Davidson, but it’s been my best term so far.” She called “the people” the program’s best aspect. “The whole
Beaufort experience is a learning experience because to me it was the first time I’d studied invertebrates — you did
research, you had seminars,” Whittington said. “It’s hard to say it directly builds on anything we’d done here [at Davidson
previously] because they were all such new classes.... You're in an environment where you study what you see — you
hear about something in a class, then that afternoon in lab you'd see it.” She noted, “We had running sea
water tanks in the lab... you’d see a scallop. When you'd go out to get a seafood dinner, you’d see
the scallop. We sat at dinner and discussed the biology of what we were eating.”

Davidson Aboard! Top to bottom, left to right: I: Hayes Woollen, Scott Brandon, Robert Lutz, Mark LePage, Eric Strother, Bob
Kemerait. II: Marlys Batten, Maddy Keller, Susan Taylor, Robin Scheid, Kevin Lontz. III: Diane Gagnon, captain of the “Alcyone”, Dr.
David Grant, Kris Nelson, Cindy Whittington, Laurie Osborn, Pam Dennis, Lynn Chestnut, Wade Powell, Harold McKenzie, Scott Purdy.

“The curriculum at Beaufort could be done on the Davidson campus,” Grant said, “but would not be the same because
of the unique result of putting students into a small community in which everyone is completely involved in biology —
research, courses, and literature. It’s very different when you focus as you do there in that intensive term. It’s a
classic example of the whole being more than the sum of the parts.”

Hurricane Gloria “tore off a few shingles” Sept. 26, Grant said. Although Duke ordered students to...evacuate Pivers Island, Grant remained
in his house on the mainland. “I could literally sit on my porch and watch the rain blow horizontally,” he
said. “It was spectacular. The house I was in was built in 1769, and I felt pretty secure in that.”

Robert Barnes, author of the Invertebrate Zoology text Grant used, visited DUML during the term. “Some of us have an
autographed text,” Whittington said.

Friday’s Biology Society meeting will feature students presenting their Beaufort independent research informally at 2 p.m. in Dana 204.

Alumnus discusses role as Kenyan educator
By JEFF LESESNE

Andy Miller '80 discussed his experiences as an educator in Kenya last Wednesday as part of the Union-sponsored Alumni Lecture
Series. The lectures are given by alumni involved in “unique and exciting” endeavors. Miller is the headmaster of the Shikokho
(Kenya) Secondary School. When asked about teaching in Africa, Miller said: “I am trying to move away from the idea
that a feeling of African culture is bad. The colonial government was so destructive to African culture and it really
hurts people. I feel a responsibility to root out that feeling.”

An immediate problem, Miller said, is that the school is isolated from outside contact. It is a three-kilometer walk to
the closest road to get a ride to a sizable town. Miller said a means of transportation or telephone service
would be a great help in performing administrative duties.

Miller said his school is rigorous and he feels it is successful. “Kenya has been successful in development but has
the fastest population growth of any place on earth.” He feels his school will help with Kenya’s development problems. The
school is known as a harambee school. Harambee is the Swahili word meaning “pull together” or “self-help.” According to Miller,
“People in Kenya are very concerned with development.” He said the government only starts large-scale development projects, such as hydroelectric
dams. The communities decide what to build whether it be schools, clinics, etc. Miller said this ensures nothing unwanted is
built. The government may step in with supplies, but “the communities are responsible for the structure.”

The Shikokho school was started by the community in 1979 with 11 students. It was under the management of the
East African Yearly Meeting of Friends which are part of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers). It was started as
a Quaker mission project. The school grew to 64 students and three teachers by 1980 and currently enrolls 250 students
and employs 11 teachers. In November of 1980, the school participated in its first secondary examination and the results showed
that of 97 schools, Shikokho placed second in the province. The school has done very well since.

Miller arrived in 1980 when the ground was broken for the school’s first building. Since then, two harambees have been
held which raised large amounts of money. One in 1982 raised $13,720 and one in 1984 raised $14,280. This July,
the school received a personal gift from Kenya’s President, Daniel T. Moi, in the amount of $7,000 for its excellent
record.

Miller said the school is unique in that it is not a boarding school, which keeps costs down. The government
is concentrating on primary schools which are free, he said. Therefore, there is a shortage of secondary schools. Because of
the shortage and because expenses at Shikokho are relatively low, there is a long waiting list to be admitted to
the school.

The school has some long-term plans such as a kitchen, a dining hall, a library, and an administration block. Miller
will be in the United States, visiting New York, Charlotte, Seattle, and his native Chicago to raise money for the
Shikokho Secondary School.
