Griffith Replaces Powers

By NELLE MCCORKLE

“Davidson is a wonderful place to represent,” said Dr. John V. Griffith, currently Dean of Admissions and upcoming Vice President
for Development. The Trustees approved Griffith’s appointment in a May 3 meeting, and Griffith will assume his new post on
July 1. Currently, a search is underway for Griffith’s successor as Dean of Admissions, according to Ann Calahan of the
Admissions Office. Griffith has served in his present post since 1979. He will replace Dr. Jack Powers in Development; Powers
has resigned to assume an office at St. Andrews Presbyterian College effective June 1.

Calling the College “an institution that can be served well,” Griffith spoke of his “immediate realization upon coming to Davidson”
six years ago that progress could be made quickly. During his tenure, Griffith said, the Admissions Office has made a
“vigilant effort to maintain its commitment to meet 100 percent of each student’s established need.” He said admissions has consciously
sought to widen Davidson’s geographical distribution “but not at the expense of this region.” Of his interest in financial aid,
Griffith explained, “It’s hard to imagine anyone at Davidson’s being any more meritorious than anyone else. We want to hold
on to making this education possible for anyone the College considers worthy of admission.”

Since Griffith took office, the acceptance rate for applicants has decreased from 50 percent to 33 percent. Of those accepted,
54 percent chose Davidson six years ago; this year 59 percent selected Davidson. Paralleling these shifts is an increase in
average Scholastic Aptitude Test scores of those accepted from 1180 in 1979 to 1230 in 1985. Geographic distribution, Griffith said,
remains “roughly one-third North Carolina, one-third other Southern states, and one-third the rest of the world.” Griffith cited strengthening alumni
ties through the Davidson Alumni Admissions program as “effective in helping bring the best students from the areas involved.” Begun
five years ago, the program now includes 200 alumni in 23 cities.

Another development during Griffith’s tenure, the Davidson Admissions Stimulation program (DAS) is “basically a public relations activity,” Griffith said. DAS
brings secondary school college counselors to the Davidson campus for a role-reversal version of the admissions process: the secondary school
counselors act as College admissions officers, interviewing the real admissions staff. Griffith described college admissions as a “strange combination” of
“promotive” and “academic counseling.” Today’s college recruitment requires “sophisticated marketing activity going after dwindling resources in an atmosphere of increased
competition.” Griffith added, “I hope those basic skills transfer to development.” In preparation for his new job, he has spent
“the last several weeks talking with Development and Communications Office staffs.” He added, “I’m looking forward to working with them.”

The College has set definite goals for the Development Office, Griffith said. The Annual Fund campaign managed by Development calls
for a total of $2,000,000. “This year’s special effort,” Griffith said, will focus on completion of Project 1987, renovating arts
facilities, and “other planned projects.” Griffith’s new duties will include overseeing the Annual Fund, a campaign drive which also manages
fundraising for the Living Endowment, Wildcat Club, and WDAV radio station. The Vice President for Development also directs the Communications
and Alumni Offices. Griffith stressed involvement of alumni, friends, foundations, parents, and corporations in the Annual Fund. According to Assistant
Director of the Living Endowment Gracia Slater, 62.3 percent of the Annual Fund comes from alumni donations. Without these gifts
and grants, Slater said, each student would pay $1,867 more in annual tuition.

Board Supports (continued from page 1)

The committee so far has been “to secure estimates on renovating.” She cited redoing the windows to save heat as
a top priority, along with replacing the ceiling. “I’ve tried to get estimates and it’s slow.” She said she does
not know the exact cost for the possible renovation but “we're talking a lot of money.” Beth Maczka, former president
of the Y-Student Service Corps, said the center “is having trouble funding programs like the Gethsemane tutoring program. Because of
funding, we're cutting edges already.” She said she hopes the center gets financial help from the College next year.

According to Johnson, the center caters to many different groups of people. The center runs the hot meal program through
which 170 people daily receive food. She said the center houses a county-run recreational center for children, adult and recreational
programs, the county extension and income-producing classes such as basket weaving as participants can sell their work. The center also
provides a Crisis assistance ministry, independent cultural studies for youths such as piano and drama, and Central Piedmont College.

Bowl Update

By ANDREA DIEDRICH

With three out of four of the members of the college bowl team graduating this year, the Union College Bowl
Committee had to do some recruiting for next year’s team. Tim Waples, this year’s captain, Chris Blake, and David Sisk
will graduate this year. Junior Sara Beasley, who is currently...Currently on the team, will be captain of next year’s squad.
Sophomore Gordon Watkins, sophomore Jeff Gregory, and freshman Mark Chen will replace the graduating seniors, and sophomore Edwin Page will
be the alternate. According to Beasley, the Union College Bowl Committee organizes the intramural college bowl league and in the
process scouts for players for the intramural team. College Bowl “involves a big-time commitment,” said Beasley. The team practices almost
every day from 4 to 6 p.m. throughout the year. Beasley said, “It’s like playing a sport all year round.”
Dr. Hansford Epes, professor of German and assistant director of the Center for Special Studies, is the main coach of
the team. Mr. Charlie Lloyd, professor Emeritus, physics professor Ayre Robert Manning, and music professor James Swisher also coach the
team. This year’s team will go to Berry College in Rome, Georgia on May 10 and 11 for the Southeastern
Invitational to defend their title from last year as champions of that tournament. Seven other teams from the southeast will
be there. According to Beasley, Davidson has not hosted a tournament in about four years because of the amount of
time it takes to organize one. She doesn’t foresee Davidson sponsoring one next year either, but she thinks it is
possible they will hold a faculty challenge match. According to Beasley, the team did poorly at the regional tournament at
East Tennessee State University in February. They did much better at the National Invitational Tournament at Emory University in Atlanta
in April. Thirty-five schools participated in the tournament including Dartmouth and Carleton. The team played 13 matches in two days.
William Brown, director of the Union, was appointed official regional college bowl director this year. He holds various types of
classes there, she said. If Federal Revenue Sharing is cut from the federal budget, the center will have to supplement
the $33,850 it would lose. However, Kincaid said, local funding would supplement the budget. He said, “Everyone on the town
board wants the program to continue and strengthen.” He said, “I will pledge to continue the program,” but “I’m one
vote of five.” (See accompanying article.) Steve Hughes, community liaison for the Y-Student Service Corps, said, “My greatest worry is
the fact that if Federal Revenue Sharing is cut off, people will point to the fact that the community center
is not used to its potential, and that it’s going to be abandoned. We need to make sure the Federal
Revenue Sharing is not cut out and then address the problem of using the community center to its potential.” He
said there is a big problem even if the Board of Commissioners revokes the vote. Maczka said, “We have to
save the community center. I feel it is important to Davidson students to have an opportunity to serve others and
to balance out their education. It gives them the extra [feeling] of accomplishment outside of the classroom.” She added, “If
we lose it, we’re limiting the education for Davidson students. It’s important for Davidson students to work in that part
of the community.” Maczka said, “We need it as much (if not more) than the children and the old people
do.” Mayor Knox said in a January Mecklenburg Gazette article “that the town had signed a lease for the center
for the next ten or twelve months and that no changes would be made during that time.” (continued from page
1) taxes) are providing more money for the budget. Hence, Kincaid said, “The revenue sharing resolution that the town passed
is unrelated to the community center.” In reaction to the Board of Commissioner’s resolution on Federal Revenue Spending, Beth Maczka
began a petition urging “the Town Council to take an active role in assuring the successful continuation of this facility
[the community center] in the future.” Committee Examines Maczka said, “I’m hoping to get a lot of strong community support.
It’s important that the community be aware of what’s happening. We have to save the community center.” She said the
main issue is “maintaining these services.” Anne Lambert, president of the Y-Student Service Corps, said, “It is very disappointing to
discover that community leaders have misrepresented the town in such a gross fashion. The five members of the Town Council
and the Mayor made a decision which purported to represent the town but it was done without the consult of
the citizens of Davidson or the College community.” She added, “The loss of revenue sharing would have a detrimental effect
on community service within Davidson. The Y-SSC is committed to preserving the community center and the programs it contains.” There
will be an open Town Council meeting this Tuesday at 7 p.m., the place has yet to be announced.

Summer Jobs! Camp Carolina For Boys and Rockbrook Camp For Girls have a few openings for counselors this summer. If
interested, drop by the careers office to see our brochure and get a stamped application. Questions? Call or write Jerry
Stone or Nath Thompson, 704-884-2414, Camp Carolina or Rockbrook Camp, Brevard, NC 28712.
