10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Brooke Knight, Executive Editor
Kevin Horan, Associate Editor
Kim Crabtree, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Bill Bugg, Features Editor
Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Richard Tankard, Photography Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager
David Maynard, Circulation Manager
Ann Roddey, Production Editor
John Gathings, Editor

Signals for reevaluation

The recent incident in Irwin dormitory demonstrates the need for Resident Advisors to have keys to the fire alarms. In
an article in this week’s paper, Housing Director Tom Jennings stated two reasons for giving the keys to campus security
instead. He said if the RAs are not in the dorm, the police must be called anyway. This reasoning is
logical. RAs have social lives, much like the rest of the students, and probably do not want to be tied
down to their rooms, especially on weekends. However, the new RA policy assigns an RA to be on duty for
each weekend. Thus, an RA is available on weekends, and if this RA has an alarm key, he or she
can spare the dormitory residents from 30 minutes or more of sleep disruption.

Jennings also said he believes students will be more likely to cause false alarms, knowing an RA will be near
to quickly shut one off. However, intent does not seem to play a strong role in the false alarms. Maintenance
Engineer Phillip Cashion said the smoke alarms are sensitive enough to be activated by a match lit in the hall.
Director of Public Safety Jackie Hughes hypothesized that alarms were set off by cooking, and said he does not believe
students intentionally set off fire alarms very often. Police officer Ray Thrower said that a convenient record of alarms could
be kept if police officers responded to the calls. However, it seems simple for an RA to make a record
of an incident when it occurs.

None of the reasons for denying RAs keys are really valid. If there is truly a problem with alarms set
off on purpose, then the offending student should be dealt with individually. With the current setup, all residents of a
dormitory are punished for the possibly intentional actions of a single student, and this situation is unfair. Anyone who has
had to stay up through 30 minutes of a fire alarm is at a disadvantage when compared with the student
who has had a night of uninterrupted sleep. At a school where one or two tests could determine a significant
part of the final class grade, students need an environment in which they can perform their best. The Housing Office
needs to reevaluate its current policies regarding fire alarm keys. The annoyance of false alarms can then be minimized, and
the Housing Office can have a record of alarms that is as good as one provided by campus security.

Note: With this issue, The Davidsonian ceases publication for the fall term, 1985. We will resume publishing at the beginning
of the winter term, 1985-86. See you then!

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of
the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $13 per year, or $24 per year for first class postal rates.
Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Andy Ball, Laura Batten, David Bearce, Jim Dillon, Keith Finch, Andrea Gross, Heidi Hooker, Jeff Lesesne,
Aaron Levine, Thomas Nicholson, David Williams

Features Staff: Laura Ballenger, Martha Johnson, Jenny Livingston, Matt Morris, Doug Robelen, Chris Sullivan

Sports Staff: Edwin Page, assistant sports editor; Mike Adams, Rand Hartsell

Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Beth Drummond, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, David Petranick, John Reuter, Sarah Smith

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Kim Nikles

Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Kristin Galloway, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen Keeley, Kara Kooken, Kris Kost, Beth Parker, Kim Robertson,
Margaret White, David Williams, Ben Yarborough

Compositors: Doug Kim, Lynda Korfmann, Ann Roddey, David Soud, Sara Strachan, Laure Van Dierdonck

Friday, November 8, 1985

THE DAVIDSONIAN

IF THE FIRE ALARM RINGS IN THE MIDDLEOF THE NIGHT; YOU SHOULD RUN FOR YOUR LIFE BECAUSE THERE MAY BE
A FIRE. RAs WILL BE FURIOUSLY LOOKING FOR A KEY TO TURN THE ALARM OFF. PHILLIP CASHION WILL RIGHTFULLY MURDER
THE PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR AWAKENING HIM TO DRIVE FROM MOORESVILLE WITH THE KEY TO TURN THE ALARM OFF.

BOTH ‘BAND ©’, 4 Letters ~ Tennis Center

To the Editor:

During the recent Homecoming Weekend, Davidson College gathered together to celebrate the completion and formal dedication of the Louise and
Carl Knobloch Tennis Center. The construction of these four indoor tennis courts, representing the first phase of a project to
build a modern and comprehensive athletics complex, addresses both sports and recreational needs on our campus. Now we want very
much to make this beautiful facility available to students, faculty, and staff.

To accomplish this, however, we need to do something that is not commonly done on the Davidson campus — we
need to charge a nominal fee to help defray the costs of proper maintenance and supervision while the Center is
open. Since our current operating budget did not anticipate these needs, if we do not charge this fee, our one
alternative would be to restrict the hours of availability, something we simply don’t want to do.

We have to establish the following guidelines for the use of the Knobloch Center:
(1) Students, faculty, or staff may call on the day they wish to play and reserve court space for a
minimum of one or a maximum of two hours. Tentatively, the hours available for play will be noon until 11
p.m., seven days a week. Before noon, you should call Ext. 377 to reserve a court; after noon, Ext. 438.
(2) There will be a nominal charge of one dollar per person per court hour to cover the costs of
maintenance and supervision.
(3) Initially, only Davidson students, faculty, or staff may reserve court time.
(4) Only regulation tennis shoes will be permitted. The cushioned playing surface is the finest available and we are determined
to protect it. The supervisor on duty will check the soles of each player. Also, no activities except normal tennis
play will be allowed on the court surface.
(5) Players only will be permitted downstairs. However, we would like to invite spectators to watch the play at any
time from the mezzanine viewing area.

In all honesty, we are feeling our way along on this project, as it is impossible to establish the amount
of interest. Be assured that we will be flexible and make adjustments as the demand dictates. Also, we would like
to encourage your suggestions as to ways to improve our programs.

In the course of our travels, we have seen a great many tennis facilities at many of the leading schools.
In our estimation, this is the finest facility we have ever seen on a college campus. As we are committed
to maintaining this facility to preserve its excellence, we are also committed to making this your Center and making it
available when you want the opportunity for exercise and fellowship. Please bear with us in our infancy and guide us
in our development.

The Knobloch Tennis Center will open for your use on Monday, December 2. We hope to see you in the
Center soon and often.

Jeff Frank, Director of Tennis Operations
Christopher B. Morris, Director of Athletics

Panel

To the Editor,

As a member of the student panel that interviewed Dean Rusk at the recent Convocation, I wish to make two
points regarding Dr. Anderson’s article in last week’s paper. First, a format that allows follow-ups to questions tends to take
the form of an interrogation, which seemed highly inappropriate in the atmosphere of a convocation and in the presence of
a distinguished guest of the college. Second, Dr. Perry, who organized the panel presentation, asked only that the panelists confer
so as to avoid repetition. We were never told not to ask “hard questions.” In fact, we were encouraged by
both Dr. Perry and Mr. Rusk’s son to feel free in challenging Mr. Rusk. If anyone feels our questions were
too easy, I would remind that person of the nature of the event in question and of the fact that
no one instructed the panelists to avoid difficult questions.

Sayres Rudy
