2

Regouse

137 N. Main St.

Friday, February 8, 1985 / The Davidsonian

NEWS SUMMARY

Noted Poet To Visit Davidson

Well-known poet Stephen Sandy will visit Davidson Monday for a poetry reading at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

A Professor of literature at Bennington College, Sandy is the author of three collections of poetry. He wrote *Stresses in
the Peaceable Kingdom* in 1967 and *Roofs*, which was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize, in 1971. His most recent work,
*Riding to Greylock*, has also met with considerable critical acclaim.

A native of Minneapolis, Minn., Sandy taught at Harvard University before assuming his position at Bennington in 1969. He is
the author of *Raveling of the Novel: Studies in Romantic Fiction from Walpole to Scott* and his poems have appeared
in magazines such as *The New Yorker*, *The Atlantic*, *Poetry*, and *The Virginia Quarterly Review*.

Sandy received his A.B. from Yale University and earned his master’s and doctoral degrees from Harvard University. He has received
numerous grants, fellowships, and awards including a Borestone Mountain Poetry Award, Dexter Fellowship, Fulbright Lectureship, and a Huber Foundation Grant.

Sandy’s reading, which is sponsored by the English department, is open to the public at no charge.

Smith Begins World Tour At Davidson

Michael W. Smith, a contemporary Christian musician, will kick off his 1985 world tour with a performance at Davidson College
at 8 p.m. Feb. 22 in Love Auditorium.

A West Virginia native who currently resides in Nashville, Tenn., Smith is one of the most popular Christian musicians in
America. His first two albums, *Michael W. Smith Project* and *Michael W. Smith 2*, both cracked the top ten on
national gospel album sales charts and were nominated for Grammy Awards.

Smith has written hundreds of songs, many of which have been recorded by the likes of Pat Boone, Amy Grant,
and Sandi Patti. His own recordings include “You Need a Saviour,” “Could He Be The Messiah,” and “Great is the
Lord.”

Kathy Triccoli, formerly with the Christian group “Glad,” will be Smith’s opening act. A Brooklyn, N.Y., native, Triccoli has recorded
two albums, *Stubborn Love* and *Heart and Soul*.

Tickets for the show are $8 and $7 for individuals in groups of eight or more. Tickets may be purchased
from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday at the ticket office on the first floor of the College
Union or ordered through the mail.

Davidson Receives Grant For Solar Research

Davidson has been awarded a $23,500 grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to further the research of chemistry Professor
Felix Carroll into certain aspects of solar energy.

Carroll will use the grant to continue his research into the manner in which small molecules excited by light interact
with other molecules.

Preliminary findings from Carroll’s research project have already been reported at various state, regional, and international conferences. In addition, some
of the project's findings have been published in the periodicals *Solar Energy* and *Journal of Chemical Research*.

The NSF award becomes effective March 1 and will expire August 31, 1986. Pending availability of funds, further NSF support
for the project is expected to continue through fiscal year 1987.

A native of High Point, N.C., Carroll received his undergraduate education at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
where he graduated with highest honors in chemistry. He earned his Ph.D. degree in organic chemistry from the California Institute
of Technology.

The 1985-86 Davidson College Union Board:
Rob Vaughn — President
Lucinda Kellam — Co-curricular Vice-president
David Stout — Social Vice-president
Edwin Evans — Secretary-Treasurer

Members at Large: Bobby Houck, Sheryl Aikman, Frank Hobart.
Campus Forum: Lisa Eldridge
Chamber Music: Frank Roberts
Cultural Events: Alice Nelson
Fine Films: Rob Odum
Gallery: Michele Kresken
International: Paulette Kurani
Literary Arts: Martha Wilson
Speakers: Russell Bitter
Women’s Concerns: Melissa Jones
Concert: Lee Neisler
Dance: Monicah McGee
Games: Jim LaBrec
Davidson Outdoors: Newton Quantz
Intimate Performances: Steven White
Pop Films: Dean Graves
900 Room: Allen Futral
Publicity Artist: Scott Counts
Publicity Coordinator: Suzy Klineman

Welcome to Heart City!

It’s today’s way to say “Happy Valentine’s Day” without getting mushy. Funky designs, off-beat humor, bold colors...a medley of fresh
new Valentine card ideas from Hallmark for Thursday, February 14.
