Thursday, December 19, 1985  
THE DAVIDSONIAN  

Lady Cats suffer narrow defeat  
By EDWIN PAGE  

Last Thursday, the Davidson women’s basketball team saw their record drop to 2-2 as they lost a heartbreaker to Greensboro College 71-69 in Johnston Gym. Although the Lady Cats failed to win, they showed the home fans a remarkably improved version of basketball. Davidson jumped out to a big early lead behind the strong play of freshman Lavetta Dawkins, but Greensboro began to claw back. The Cats could not handle the Hornet press and watched as their lead dwindled slowly. By halftime, Greensboro had overtaken Davidson and held a 34-30 advantage. 

The second half looked for a while to be all Greensboro, but Davidson, down by as much as 10 at one point, refused to fold. Junior Heather McKee began to find the range and the Cats started to close the gap. Davidson finally came all the way back, taking the lead late in the game and holding on until the last minute. With less than 30 seconds to go, Davidson held a three-point advantage, but twice could not convert on chances from the free-throw stripe. With eight seconds left, Davidson still held a one-point lead, and junior Jenny Artman was at the line. The shot rolled off the rim and Greensboro collected the rebound and sprinted downcourt. With one second showing, the Hornet’s Donna Christy put the ball in and was fouled. She hit the ensuing free-throw and Davidson’s last-second prayer fell short, giving Greensboro the two-point victory. 

Despite the loss, it was a solid game for the Cats. Dawkins led the team with 29 points, junior transfer Artman added 12, and senior guard Amy Hartman and McKee each added 10. Dawkins complemented her sensational scoring with 12 rebounds and five blocked shots while McKee grabbed 11 rebounds. The Cats go home for the holidays and resume their schedule Jan. 8 at St. Andrews. With two wins already under their belt and averaging a surprising 71 points per game, the Cats look forward to having a strong, competitive season.  

Who's On First?  
By ANDY BARRON  

As Christmas stares America in the face, the year of sports comes to a close. 1985, like any year in sports, has had its ups and downs. In case you had forgotten, here they are, the winners and losers, good and bad, in the world of sports in 1985. 

All sports years both begin and end with college football, not because college football has anything over all other sports, but because tradition demands that the sport ends on New Year’s Day. Brigham Young won the national championship with a wimpy schedule that made their undefeated season possible. The losers in college football continued to be the fans who wanted a playoff system instead of a ballot box to determine the national gridiron champ. As the holidays approach, and the bowl games with them, chaos threatens to reign again if Penn State doesn’t win the Orange Bowl. 

The San Francisco 49ers won the '85 Super Bowl over Miami. Unfortunately for 49ers fans, their team hasn't played well since. Fall 1985 has belonged to the Chicago Bears, complete with Refrigerator, as they rampage through the NFL. Tune in next year to discover whether or not the Bears can churn their way to a Super Bowl crown. 

The big winner in college basketball, Villanova, surprised everyone, even the team that was supposed to win, Georgetown. Villanova played a flawless title game to beat the proud Hoyas, the game's overwhelming favorite, and provide 1985’s biggest upset. Other surprises this year included Wimbledon champion Boris Becker and Sports Illustrated discovery Sidd Finch. Becker, at 17, became the youngest Grand Slam event winner in the history of tennis. In addition, “Das Wunderkind” became the first unseeded player to win Wimbledon. Finch appeared in Sports Illustrated in a George Plimpton story. Finch, a former Harvard student turned Buddhistpriest, had mastered the “pitch” and could throw a 168 mile per hour fastball. Few people seemed to realize the issue came out on April Fool’s Day and was Plimpton’s joke, because subscriptions were cancelled. The most important story in the world of sports happened in Brussels as 38 people died as a result of crowd violence at the European Cup championship game between Liverpool and Juventus, one of soccer’s premier events. Poor seating arrangements, barbaric fans, and slow police response combined to cause the tragedy. As a result of the violence, the European Soccer Federation banned English soccer clubs from playing on the European continent.

Scandals raged in college football and basketball. Almost every school in the Southwest Conference had their football team put on probation. Game fixing ended the basketball program at Tulane and the Memphis State program came under siege as allegations piled up concerning coach Dana Kirk and pay-offs to players. College sports do not appear to be getting closer to eliminating cheating because the fans do not seem to care about rule violations. In Kentucky, when a local paper printed results from a lengthy investigation that found rampant violations, fans got mad at the paper, not the basketball program.

The best news of 1985 was what didn’t go wrong; namely, that a baseball strike that threatened to kill the season ended after two days. This quick settlement allowed the Kansas City Royals, who were out-Cinderellaed only by Villanova, to win the World Series.

Individuals made 1985 a particularly memorable year. Living legends Wayne Gretzky and Walter Payton added to their mystiques, Gretzky by leading Edmonton to its second straight Stanley Cup and Payton by heading the Chicago Bears’ charge toward the playoffs. Each of these superstars has a serious claim to “Best Ever” in their respective sports. These are two to tell the grandchildren about.

Baseball had a bevy of accomplishments sure to put bronze on the walls of Cooperstown. Tom Seaver and Phil Niekro each won their 300th game and Rod Carew got his 3000th hit, ensuring all will reach the Hall of Fame. Pete Rose, who has had a place reserved for him in Cooperstown for over five years, finally caught Ty Cobb and became baseball's all-time hitting lord.

1985 leaves a lot of unanswered questions: What happened to Carl Lewis? or John McEnroe? the USFL? the Chicago Cubs? When will Mary Lou Retton get off the world’s television screens and let people relax as commercials come on during time-outs? Where did all the ugly basketball shoes come from? and where can I get a respectable-looking pair for myself? Who knows?

Finally, no year in sports would be complete without the personal triumphs of the everyday athlete. Congratulations to all IMAC teams, not only those that won, but to all who had fun. Also, congratulations to Angelo Spagnolo, the World’s Worst Avid Golfer by means of the 257 he shot for 18 holes in the PGA-sponsored event to determine who actually held such a dubious honor. 1985 sure was fun!