4 Friday, February 1, 1985 / The Davidsonian

FIJI Fraternity Seeks To Change Its Image
By DAVID VAN PELT

The decision to close Fannie and Mable at the end of the term marks a significant event for Phi Gamma
Delta, approximately half of whose members presently eat at F & M. “It was a shock to me,” said fraternity
president Marshall Johnston of the closing. Though he said financial problems have been evident at F & M for over
a year, “it seemed to me we would pull through.”

Other FIJIs were less surprised by the announcement. “I wouldn’t have been surprised if we had closed in the fall,”
FIJI Boyd Blackburn said. “I think all the members will tell you that it’s been pretty visible over the past
several years that it [F & M] was going downhill.”

Johnston believes that the closing will help FIJI. He said the association of FIJI with the ailing F & M
among Davidson students harmed the fraternity’s attempts to recruit freshmen this year. FIJI has only six pledges among the freshman
class.

Johnston said FIJIs now eating at F & M will disperse among other eating houses, the Commons, and independent eating
next term. About half of the 32 FIJIs will eat in the Commons spring term, Johnston said. Three or four
of the FIJIs now at F & M will eat at Emanon next term, he said, about five will eat
at PAX, and eight or 10 will eat independently.

Johnston said this will give Phi Gamma Delta the opportunity to rush freshmen in the Commons and others in the
co-ed eating houses, and also give new members the opportunity to belong to a national fraternity and enjoy co-ed eating.
Johnston said one result of the large number of FIJIs eating at F & M is that their attentions were
often diverted toward fraternity matters and away from...

Davidson Names New Sociology Dept. Chairman
By DAVID VAN PELT

The Sociology/Anthropology department will have a new chairman beginning next year. Dr. Grant D. Jones, currently the chairman of the
Anthropology department at Hamilton College, accepted Davidson's offer Monday, according to Vice-President of Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty T.
C. Price Zimmermann.

Grant will visit Davidson the week of March 25 to meet with department members and to begin structuring the department
for next year, Zimmermann said. “I would not expect to see any major changes in the department in the coming
year,” Zimmermann said. “I would expect the rostrum of courses to look pretty much the same next year.” He did
say curriculum changes will be made to accommodate the recent departure of Professor Peter Venturelli and the completion of Professor
James Wooten’s two-year visiting term at the end of this year.

According to Zimmermann, Grant will offer courses in his specialty, Central American Anthropology. Grant is a recognized authority on post-16th
century Mayan culture, Zimmermann said, and has published numerous articles on this subject. According to Zimmermann, who chaired the department
search committee, “We actively sought out the best qualified candidates we could find. We didn't wait for people to come
to us.” He said, “We wanted someone with a strong...

Missy Kuykendall (continued from page 1)

...and Jamie, 16, has changed as a result. “John is definitely spending more time with work, so sometimes we’re lopsided
as a family,” she says. There’s a sense of having to adjust to one member pulling out. But we make
up for that with vacations and such. Occasionally we have truth-telling sessions and we decide that it’s time for him
to stay home.”

Kuykendall also feels the pressure of adapting to a new environment. “That is always a difficult adjustment, leaving close relationships,”
she says, “and coming into a new community, it takes time to build relationships.” Tim and Jamie have coped well
with the move to Davidson and the switch to North Meck High School. Kuykendall says after visiting Auburn over Christmas,
her sons agreed that they would rather be in Davidson.

Moving from a “cozy, small house” in Auburn to Davidson’s oldest, grandest residence would undoubtedly affect one’s lifestyle, too. The
president’s home is so full of college heirlooms that it is difficult to distinguish the Davidson antiques from the Kuykendalls’
decorations. She appreciates the Davidson presence, however, and enjoys being so close to the campus. “I’m always reminded it’s a
part of the College, but we get plenty of privacy. People respect that.”

Missy Kuykendall does not revel in her somewhat elevated status. “It’s not my style to stand out in a crowd,”
she said. Interestingly enough, it is with just that kind of grace and humility that she already stands out at
Davidson.

Natural Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St.
Davidson, N.C. 28036
892-7521

Treat your Valentine to Our Special...Treats at Natural Resources the eating house. According to Johnston, all FIJIs considered the fraternity
their first priority, and the problems of the eating house did not dominate their attention. F & M’s financial problems
“came at exactly the same time we had to examine ourselves, and find out why we haven’t been as attractive
to freshmen as in the past,” Johnston said. According to Johnston, FIJI association with F & M has not been
the fraternity’s greatest problem in recruiting members. “Our biggest problem over the last couple of years has been the drug
image,” Johnston said. This year, he said, FIJI has made a concerted effort to combat that image. FIJI invited a
representative from the national fraternity earlier this year to advise Davidson’s chapter on ways to improve its image, and three
weeks ago FIJI members signed a commitment not to use drugs or condone the use of them by other members.
The commitment prohibits drug use completely, not just inside the fraternity house, Johnston said. Though national regulations forbid drug use
among chapters, Johnston said, “we realized we had enough of an apathy problem that we had to spell it out.”
According to Blackburn, FIJIs are taking the drug commitment seriously. Several members were unable to sign the agreement, he said,
and left the fraternity. FIJI also instituted a list of minimum requirements for fraternity members, such as community service and
attending meetings. Despite FIJI’s poor rushing class this year, Johnston said FIJI faces no danger of folding. Because FIJI does
not run an eating house, its only major expense is the payments on its fraternity house. FIJI membership has gone
as low as nine since the fraternity went off campus in 1972, according to Blackburn. Chair Zimmermann said this ratio
will likely change to constitute a more even ratio between Sociology and Anthropology study at Davidson. Jones received his B.A.
degree from Florida State University in 1963, and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Brandeis University in 1967 and 1969,
respectively. He has been on the faculty at Hamilton College in New York since 1968, and has chaired the anthropology
department there since 1983. Reaction Panel Reports (continued from page 1) of Davidson’s size.” The Panel recommends Davidson recruit more
blacks that are not athletes. The Panel “agreed that there is a need to increase the number of black role
models on the faculty and professional staffs. This problem may appear on the surface to be insurmountable, but in our
view it can be achieved... resources in terms of blacks are available. Davidson must be willing to compete for them.”
Another high concern for the Panel was the attrition rate among black students at Davidson. “It was significant to note
that black athletes seemed to cope and meet the standards in greater percentages than non-athletes.” An improved environment and support
structure, including tutoring programs, would alleviate black student attrition here, the report says. “There was a distinct impression among non-academic
staff members, in whom the students have confidence, that if they made an attempt to assist a student by referring
them to the proper department for help, it is the death nail in the student’s failure at Davidson.” Turning to
the presence of black studies in Davidson’s academic program, the Panel stated: “We question, given the past history of Davidson,
whether there are sufficient faculty sensitive enough to the black experience to relate it positively... It would probably improve racial
relations if a course on race relations were a requirement.” The panel also noted that two professors who teach courses
in race relations have left, or will leave Davidson by the end of the year. The Panel suggests Davidson increase
black enrollment to a minimum of 12 percent of the student body by 1990. Currently, Davidson’s 52 black students represent
approximately 4 percent of the student population. “It is felt that the existing track record of Davidson College in the
area of black recruitment in spite of past attempts leaves something to be desired. It is not enough for Davidson
to cite the failures of other ‘like’ institutions as an implied justification that ‘we're not doing too bad.’ By doing
so, not only do we perpetuate the unrest and constant criticism in this area, but we also forfeit the opportunity
to show more leadership.” UNITED CAROLINA BANK clo Davidson 892-7815 Cornelius/Lake 137 N. Main St. I-77 at Hwy 73 Norman
892-7805
