2 Friday, February 15, 1985 / The Davidsonian

NEWS SUMMARY

Term-In-India Program To Accept Applications

The South Asian Studies Program will soon be accepting applications for participation in the 1985 Term-in-India program under the direction
of religion Professor William K. Mahony. Students in the program will live and study in India for 10 weeks during
the fall term of 1985. Those who successfully complete the academic requirements of the program will receive credit for three
full-time courses. Applications will be due at the Office for Study Abroad by March 15, 1985. Faculty from the South
Asian Studies Program will meet with interested students at 7 p.m. next Wednesday in the 900 Room.

Senior Philosophy Major To Give Lecture

David Resnik, a senior philosophy major, will present a lecture titled “A Defense of Teleology’s Use in Biology” at 4:30
p.m. today in Perkins Auditorium. Resnik is writing a thesis on teleological explanations in biology. Teleological explanations are explanations which
refer to functions, goals, or purposes. The Philosophy Club is sponsoring the lecture.

Garden Club To Hold Symposium In March

The First Davidson Horticultural Symposium, sponsored by the Davidson Garden Club, will be held on the campus March 6. Featuring
horticultural experts from throughout the eastern United States, the symposium will focus on garden design and propagation techniques. Reservations for
the symposium cost $20 per person. Fees cover the cost of the lectures, workshop, luncheon, and refreshments. Registration for the
symposium will open at 8:30 a.m. and be followed by a welcoming address by President John Kuykendall.

The symposium’s first lecture will be given by William L. Hunt at 9:30 a.m. Hunt, author of “Southern Gardens, Southern
Gardening” and a founder of the N.C. Botanical Garden in Chapel Hill, will speak on “Botanical Gardens and Arboreta.” A.
E. Bye, a landscape architect from Greenwich, Conn., and author of “Art Into Landscape, Landscape Into Art,” will speak at
10:45 a.m. on “How the Natural Landscape Determines Design.”

Following a noon luncheon in the Vail Commons, Fred Galle will address “Rare and Unusual Plants for The Piedmont North
Carolina” at 1:45 p.m. Recently retired as director of horticulture at the celebrated Callaway Gardens in Pine Mountain, Ga., Galle
is a past president of the American Association of Botanical Gardens and Arboreta and of the American Horticultural Society.

After Galle’s address, participants will have a choice of attending one of five workshops. All workshops will begin at 3
p.m. These include Bye speaking on “Landscape Design in the Woodland;” Hunt on “Bulbs for the South;” Galle on “Propagation
Techniques;” J. Kenneth Moore, a 1962 Davidson graduate and assistant director of the N.C. Botanical Garden, and Harry Phillips, curator
of the N.C. Botanical Garden, on “All About Growing and Propagating Wildflowers;” and Jim Wilson, host of the television show
“The Victory Garden South” and author of “How to Grow a Thriving Vegetable Garden,” speaking on “Herbs.”

The symposium will conclude with an informal tea and coffee hour at 4:30 p.m. In addition to speakers, the symposium
will also feature a display of rare horticultural and landscape architecture books in the E. H. Little Library and a
special display of the Piedmont’s rare and unusual plants. Checks should be made payable to First Davidson Horticultural Symposium and
mailed to Box 885, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Reservation requests should also include a list of participants’ top three choices for
the afternoon workshops. Space is limited and reservations should be made early. For further information contact Ruth Pittard at 892-2000,
ext. 192.

Duke Endowment Awards Grant To Davidson

Davidson has been awarded a $500,000 grant from The Duke Endowment to fund a variety of programs and projects at
the College during the 1985-86 academic and fiscal year. In addition, the College has also received a $200,000 installment toward
the $1 million pledged by The Duke Endowment for the James B. Duke Professorship in International Studies. The bulk of
the $500,000 grant will be used to provide additional financial support for faculty and staff members. These funds will allow
Davidson to offer salaries more competitiveWith institutions of comparable academic stature. Other projects to be funded by the grant include
the purchase of an ultracentrifuge for the Biology department, continued conversion of the library’s card catalogue to a computerized system,
hiring of a clerk for the library’s government document depository, expansion of the school’s FOCUS program for entering freshmen (an
intensive summer course designed to help some entering students, who have insufficient preparation in some areas, better prepare for college-level
course work), a study of the College’s current wage program for hourly staff, and purchase of additional video equipment for
classroom use. Since its establishment in 1924 by James Buchanan Duke, The Duke Endowment has awarded grants totaling more than
26 million dollars to Davidson.

1985-86 Hall Counselors Selected:
- Robert Asinger
- Laura Batten
- Patricia Burns
- Emil Cekada
- Lloyd Chapin
- Travis Colwell
- Brett Flinchum
- David Fuller
- George Guise
- Leslie Hamilton
- John Harper
- Rachel Henning
- Michael Holt
- Robbie Howell
- John Lay
- Jenny Link
- Tyler Long
- Alex Maultsby
- Alison McEntire
- John McNeill
- Sean Miller
- Dan Murrey
- Betsey Peeler
- William (Shel) Robinson
- Ann Roddey
- Mark Sandy
- John Stanley
- Margaret White

Trustees To Consider Student Radio

Plans for a new campus radio station will be considered this weekend at the Trustee’s meeting. SGA President John Laughlin
said he plans to bring tentative plans for a student-run station before the Trustee Student Life Committee after SGA senators
reported positive student opinion toward the project at the SGA meeting Tuesday. According to Laughlin, junior Stuart Gordon, a member
of the WDAV advisory board, proposed his plan for a new station to the SGA at its Feb. 5 meeting.

“It all grew out of what’s going on at WDAV,” Gordon said. He said WDAV is currently re-evaluating its relationship
with the College and considering reducing the number of their student employees. Gordon said the station is becoming more professional,
but at the same time, it employs approximately 20 students, who have had little or no previous training. “WDAV’s position
is very understandable,” Gordon said. He said WDAV station manager John Clark strongly supports the proposed station and has offered
to make available to Gordon the resources of a new five-member WDAV task force recently established to study WDAV’s relationship
to the College and community.

According to Gordon, the most expensive aspect of a new station would be establishing a new frequency. He said the
station could use an old transmitter formerly used by WDAV as well as a studio mixing board. As for the
new station’s location, Gordon said, “My hope is to have the old WDAV station, but I don’t know if that’s
possible.” WDAV will begin constructing a new station on Griffith Street in the spring and plans to move by Oct.
1. The proposed station would play a combination of classical rock, jazz, and alternative rock and would probably broadcast only
in the Davidson area. He said it would not compete with WDAV’s programming.

According to Gordon, no formal plan has been developed for the station. “Right now we're soliciting student opinion,” he said.
He said concrete evidence of student support for a student-run station needs to be gathered before a proposal can be
presented to the Trustees. Junior Rob Vaughn, also involved in the project, has appointed at-large Union Board member Bobby Houck
to help organize the station. He said at least 10 students have expressed interest in working on the new station.
Gordon said he would like to formulate a proposal for the new station soon after spring break. Gordon said he
did not know how long it would take the Federal Communication Commission to approve an application for a new frequency;
he would like to apply for a frequency as soon as possible to begin broadcasting by Oct. 1.

UNITED CAROLINA BANK
I-77 at Hwy 73 Cornelius/Lake Norman
137 N. Main St. 992-7805 Davidson 892-7815
