10 D N I " A THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor
Kevin Horan, Executive Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Brooke Knight, Managing Editor
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Scott McKinney, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager
Amy Harrell, Circulation Manager

Be Careful

The recent campus thefts should suffice to remind students of the outside world’s proximity to the perceived idyllic safe area of Davidson College. Such an optimistic conception is a frail one at best because it blissfully ignores the threat of outside intrusion. It is also a dangerous conception in that it prompts a false sense of security, shattered all too quickly (and too late) when valuables are lost.

Because of faith in the unique effectiveness of the honor code, students become careless in matters of everyday affairs. Doors are left unlocked and often open; valuables are left out and within easy reach. However, the honor code itself is not faulted. The error comes in student assumptions that because the College seems “isolated,” the honor code suffices for protection. It does not, however, and neither does the campus police force. They are restricted to patrols, which means they (obviously) cannot be in all places at all times. Students need to become aware of their role in preventing crime at Davidson. A passive reliance on any one code or body is limited; only the student can be positive that his property is secured while unattended.

How does the newly-enlightened student take action? With the same tips that have been emphasized repeatedly. Students should lock their doors and belongings (such as bicycles). Also, take the initiative to report suspicious persons on the grounds and in the dorms to Campus Police (-5131). The police are anxious to work directly with the students in stopping campus crime.

---

WE'RE ON THE SCENE WITH DAVIDSON COLLEGE SECURITY AT THE UNION CAFE, WHERE RECENTLY, AN UGLY CRIME...

CAN YOU TELL US, SIR, EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENED?

LET'S JUST SAY SOMEONE TOOK THEIR CHIPS AND DRINK BEFORE THEIR GRILL ORDER WAS READY.

---

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Andy Ball, Richard Cloudt, Kelly Finch, Aaron Levine, Andrea Gross, Dave Williams
Arts and Entertainment Staff: Laura Ballenger, Bill Bugg, MarthaJohnson, Matt Morris, Samuel Scott, Treeby Williams

Sports Staff: Mike Adams, Rand Hartsell, Perry Mathewes, Edwin Page

Photography Staff: Ken Jones, John Reuter

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Kim Nikles

Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Eileen Keely, Kara Kooken, Beth Drummond, Kristin Galloway, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Kris Kost, Pauline Rhodes, Kim Robertson, David Soud, Margaret White, Ben Yarbrough

Compositors: Anne Lambert, Ann Roddey

Letters

Elections

To the Editors:

Elections are fast approaching! Signups for the elections of freshmen class senators began at 9 a.m. on Tuesday, September 17 in the Dean of Students’ Office. Three freshmen senators will be elected with the highest vote-getter being named class president. Belk dorm residents will elect three senators — two freshmen and one upperclassman. All other dorms will elect one resident each as their dorm senator (Note: Carnegie residents are considered Little Dorm residents and may run for and vote for Little Dorm senator). In addition, three off-campus senators will be elected. These three senators will be elected from and by any non-dorm resident (either perimeter houses or elsewhere).

Signups for these elections will end promptly at 5 p.m. on Tuesday, September 24. Each candidate is required to sign the signup sheet for his/her race as well as READ and SIGN a candidate’s declaration form. At 5 p.m. on Tuesday, September 24, there will be a MANDATORY candidates’ meeting in the Morrison Room of the Union (but please let the aerobics class finish before you take over the Morrison Room). At this meeting, we will discuss campaign regulations and election procedures. Note that failure to attend this candidates’ meeting will result in disqualification unless the candidate follows the instructions explained on the candidate’s declaration form.

We encourage all people interested in being a part of the SGA Senate to run for a senatorial position this term. There will not be a $5 filing fee for this election. All campaign expenses will be the candidate’s responsibility — including all Xerox costs. Any questions concerning filing and election procedures may be directed to one of the following members of the Elections Council:

Mickey McDonald (chairman)
Holly Gaston
Mary Be Haas
Robert Kennedy
Patrick Lail

Ideals

To the Editors:

I was certainly pleased to see the generous coverage of the Class of 1989 which appeared in The Charlotte Observer on September 11, 1985. It is encouraging to know that the newest students at Davidson are as outstanding a group as their predecessors. I want, however, to emphasize the responsibility that is inherent in such excellence.

While it is true that Davidson is an institution of high standards and exceptional quality, that fact alone is not newsworthy. The real story is how we use our educations. If, by the Davidson model, we assume high standards and exceptional quality in our life’s work and for the lives of others, that is news. President Kuykendall and the faculty embody and promote this ideal in their work. I hope that the Class of 1989 (and all others) will not rest too comfortably on the advantages Davidson offers, and will take seriously the responsibilities that accompany such a unique educational experience.