Six Join Davidson Faculty
By JEFF LESESNE, PHILLIP GRIFFETH, KEITH FINCH, DAVID BEARCE

Clinton McCann
Professor Clinton McCann returns to Davidson after twelve years and joins the religion department as a visiting assistant professor. McCann
graduated from Davidson in 1973. This term he is teaching an introduction to the New Testament and a course on
the history and religion of ancient Israel. McCann grew up in Greensboro, North Carolina, and, after graduating from Davidson, attended
Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia, where he received his Doctor of Ministry degree in 1977 and his Master of
Theology degree in 1978. He has recently received his Ph.D. in biblical studies from Duke University. He and his wife,
Nancy, co-pastor three Presbyterian churches and have served in this capacity since 1978. They have one daughter, Jennifer, who will
be four next month. McCann’s personal interests include jogging, team sports, and spending time with his family. He notes that
perhaps the most noticeable difference in the Davidson community since his time here is the admission of women in 1972,
which he views as a definite change for the better. He sees the Davidson students as being conscientious, well-rounded, and
of high quality.

Elizabeth Mills
Professor Elizabeth Mills comes to Davidson as a visiting English lecturer. This term she investigates women writers in English 135
and educates freshmen on the art of composition in another English course. In coming to Davidson, Mills felt that “...
the faculty, particularly in the English department, (was) intelligent, and also very warm...” She finds the campus beautiful and the
E.H. Little Library to her liking, small and accommodating. Mills finds that Davidson students challenge you in a good way.
She sees them “... (challenging) teachers to be good students.” Mills is originally from nearby Statesville, North Carolina, and attended
Agnes Scott College in Atlanta, Georgia for three years. She is a graduate of the University of Texas in El
Paso, where she also received her master’s degree. She received her Ph.D. from the University of North Carolina in Chapel
Hill. Mills and William, her husband of twenty years, have three boys ages sixteen, fourteen, and five. Mr. Mills, a
1964 graduate of Davidson College, is a businessman and serves the public as a county commissioner in Iredell County. Mills
enjoys reading, gardening, and cooking, of which Mexican food is her specialty.

Grant Jones
Grant Jones began the 1985-86 school year as the new Chairman of the Department of Anthropology and Sociology at Davidson.
Jones teaches a course on the Anthropology of Mexico and Central America, as well as Introductory Cultural Anthropology, and the
Anthropological Perspective. He hopes to have a new course approved called Social Anthropology. He also has several plans for the
Department of Anthropology and Sociology. He said, “Our department is beginning to rethink the definition of our major.” He continued,
“You will see changes in next year’s catalogue.” New professors are also under discussion. Jones specializes in an area of
anthropology called Mesoamerica. This area includes Mexico and Northern Central America. His primary interest in this area is the Maya
Indians. He has spent several years studying them in the country of Belize on the Caribbean coast of Central America.
He has also done field work in archaeology. At present, he is working on the history of the Maya Indians
under Spanish Colonialism. Jones is originally from Florida, where he attended Florida State University. He began studying music and later
switched to anthropology. He graduated cum laude with a B.A. in 1963. In 1967 he received his Master’s degree, and
in 1969 he received his doctoral degree, both from Brandeis University in Massachusetts. Jones became a member of the faculty
at Hamilton College in Clinton, New York in...

Assistant Deans
From Pg. 1
...campus activities as well. She is the newly-appointed advisor for the International Committee, a task about which she is quite
enthusiastic. Working with Jack Perry, she has helped to initiate the international students into the DC campus and, with Perry,
has organized a “4:30 Forum” to meet on Thursdays for the interaction of American and international students. For the second
year, she is the coordinator for the Focus, a limited pre-orientation program for entering freshmen. For a month in the
summer, students take English composition, math, and speech courses and gain an edge useful upon entering DC in the fall.
Miller is also active with the RACE committee and the Task Force on Racial and Ethnic Concerns. As a related
project, she is working on the formation of a black professional liaison group to provide a useful network for students.
Miller has also helped coordinate a tutoring program having its center in the dean of students office. Students who need
help in their work can come to the dean’s office and find the proper...1968 and remained there until 1985. He
was chairman of the Department of Anthropology from 1968-80 and again from 1983-85. Jones is married to Mary Armistead-Jones and
he has two sons, 17 and 14. He also enjoys playing the piano, reading, and outdoor activities.

Pamela Camp

Pamela Camp begins her first year at Davidson teaching a section of Biology 21, “Selected Topics in Biology.” Raised in
Conway, Arkansas, she graduated from Hendrix College in 1976 with an undergraduate degree in Biology and earned her master's degree
in Botany from the University of Arkansas two years later. She earned her Ph.D. from North Carolina State and has
completed three years of post-doctoral work: two years at the University of Missouri in Columbia and one at the University
of Dayton. Plants are her specialty, and she is particularly interested in plant carbohydrate metabolism and the study of the
enzymes used in the formation of sucrose.

Camp came to Davidson because she knew from her N.C. State experience that she liked North Carolina, and because she
wanted to interact with students. “I came to Davidson because I wanted to teach in a small college with high
academic standards,” she said. Her interests include photography (she likes to photograph plants), cycling, tennis, racquetball, growing plants, and birdwatching.

Jeffrey O’Connell

Jeffrey O’Connell is the newest addition to the psychology department. He completed his undergraduate work at Brown University and earned
his Ph.D. from Florida State University last June. He will be at Davidson College for a minimum of two years
and his teaching assignments include General Psychology and a seminar course. O’Connell met his wife of seven years, Sheila, while
he attended Brown University. He is an avid runner, with marathon experience, who logs at least six miles a day.
He also enjoys collecting books with an emphasis on classic literature and psychology textbooks. Jeffrey and Sheila O’Connell currently reside
in a college house and are very pleased with the surrounding community. O’Connell’s professional interest is doing research on feeding
and learning behavior. He would like to stimulate student involvement in doing basic research in this area.

Drue Sheesley

Recently joining the art department as a visiting instructor is Drue Sheesley. She earned her B.A. in Art History at
Bucknell and received her Master’s degree from the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. She is currently a Ph.D. candidate
at the University of North Carolina, where she is finishing her dissertation on Giotto, a 14th-century Italian painter and architect.
Her teaching assignments at Davidson College include Italian Renaissance Art and a survey of Western Art History. She has previously
been a curator for the Mint Museum in Charlotte. Sheesley enjoys reading and swimming when she is not teaching or
working on her dissertation. Her goals are to get her dissertation published and to continue her work on late medieval
and early Renaissance art. Eventually, she would like to teach full-time on the college level. The high academic level of
Davidson College has particularly impressed Sheesley. She has also found the people to be very friendly and most helpful in
getting her oriented to her new surroundings.

Miller hopes the program will provide “a bridge between students and professors.” She is also involved in the BSC and
serves as an advisor for the RAPE committee. Root is presently working on her Master’s degree in counseling at UNCC.
The topic for her research project is eating disorders. The idea for this topic did come from her experiences at
Davidson College. Miller is a graduate of Williams College and worked for Wachovia Bank and Trust Co. as an audit
examiner and commercial lending officer before coming to Davidson in 1983. Away from Davidson, she serves on the board of
the Council for Children and the Elizabeth Planning Committee. She has also been involved in the American Cancer Society’s Task
Force on Cancer Awareness, Charlotte’s “Focus on the Future” planning committee, the National Association of College Admissions Counselors, and the
Southern Association of College Admissions Counselors. Root is a graduate of Queens College and served as clinical curriculum coordinator for
the Emory University School of Medicine before coming to Davidson in 1980. Originally assistant director of the annual giving program,
she became assistant director of the Careers Office in 1983. She is involved with the Campus and Religious Life organization
and the new Counseling and Guidance Committee. She will work with Dean Terry to organize Parents’ weekend and is coordinator
for the orientation of transfer students into DC life. Off campus, she is a member of the American Association for
Counseling and Development, the Association of College Personnel Administrators, and the Southern Association of College Student Affairs.
