**The Davidsonian**

Women’s team proves ‘highly adaptable’

By PAM HARMANN

The Women’s basketball team got off to an excellent start. They head into tomorrow night’s game here at Davidson against Greensboro College with a 2-1 record, which coach Patty Daley intends to make it 3-1 after tonight’s game. No one can fail to notice how much improved the team looks. In her third season as coach, Daley said, “there is not one aspect of the game in which we haven't improved, height, offense, defense, quickness, etc... .”

The season opened at Meredith College versus Randolph Macon Women’s College on Nov. 22. Davidson won 87-63, a satisfactory win for the players, whose minds were on exams back at Davidson. Standouts of the game were freshman center Lavetta Dawkins with 28 points and 21 rebounds, senior co-captain Amy Hartman, and junior Pam Harmann with 10 points each.

This past weekend the team traveled to Ferrum College in Virginia to play in a tournament. Friday night Davidson fell to Ferrum 81-65, but actually played a much better game than they did against Randolph Macon. Davidson started off strong and led the game for almost the entire first half. However, after the first 18 minutes, the quickness of Ferrum’s fast break proved to be a bit much. The loss of junior co-captain Heather McKee, a leading scorer last season, to an ankle injury also hurt the team. Dawkins led the offense with 22 points. Others in double figures were Harmann and junior Jenny Artman with 14 and 12 points respectively, and Hartman with 10. Harmann and Artman also led the team in rebounds with 10 apiece.

On Saturday afternoon in the consolation game, Davidson trounced Southern Seminary 83-34, a mere 49-point win for those of you too lazy to do the subtraction. This score seems quite a reversal of scores from past seasons. Dawkins again led the team with 36 points and 13 rebounds, followed by Artman with 17 points and 11 rebounds. McKee marked her return with 13 points and Hartman supplied 10. The tournament ended positively for Davidson, who placed second, and Dawkins and Artman received plaques for being named to the all-tournament team.

Wildcats fall to Deacons, trounce Eckerd

By EDWIN PAGE

The Davidson basketball team played out a sad but hauntingly familiar drama against the Deacons of Wake Forest last Wednesday night in Winston-Salem. Last year the Cats jumped out to a nineteen-point lead before faltering in the second half. This time the story was much the same, except that Davidson stayed tantalizingly close before falling just short, 67-63.

The game started out like a rout for Davidson. Wake controlled the tip and scored first to go ahead 2-0, but that was the last point they could manage for over five minutes as the Cats ran out to a 10-2 lead behind sophomore Derek Rucker’s six early points. Wake got a free throw at the 14-minute mark, but two baskets by junior Chris Heineman and a jumper by junior Ace Tanner stretched the margin to 16-3 with just over 13 minutes remaining in the half. The Deacons called timeout and from there it was all downhill for Davidson as Wake Forest slowly began to close the gap. They scored six straight after the timeout and kept on coming. With 1:38 left to play, the Deacs took the lead at 30-29. The Wildcats, however, recovered the advantage and took a one-point lead into the locker room at 33-32.

The pattern for the second half was set early as Davidson was whistled for three fouls in the space of thirty seconds, helping the Deacons forge a five-point lead with 16 minutes to play. Davidson fought back behind Tanner, who scored eight straight points, twice giving Davidson three-point leads. Mike Scott, the game's high scorer, put Wake ahead to stay with two of his 16 points with just under nine minutes to play. Davidson closed to within one once more on another Tanner jumper at 5:45, but two minutes later the margin had grown to eight, and the Cats could not mount a final charge. Tyrone Bogues, although he scored only eight points, played a key role for Wake holding Rucker scoreless on only one attempt in the entire second half. Davidson actually outscored the Deacons from the floor in both halves, but Wake outscored the Cats by an amazing 17-2 margin from the charity stripe in the second half, enabling them to hold on for the win. Tanner, playing what was perhaps his best game as a Wildcat, led the team with his career-high 14 points and senior Jim McConkey collected seven rebounds to lead the Cats in that department.

On Saturday, however, the Wildcats rebounded from...the disappointment of Wednesday and scored an impressive 89-74 victory over visiting Eckerd. The Fighting Pharmacists jumped out to a 4-0 lead and stayed even or ahead for virtually all of the first 13 minutes, building as much as a seven-point lead near the midpoint of the first half. But moments later, with Davidson trailing 20-16, Heineman drew a charge and a technical foul was called on Eckerd. Heineman converted four free throws and then took a pass from Tanner on the ensuing possession and laid it in for a six-point play that gave the Cats the lead for only the second time in the game. Eckerd recovered briefly, but a three-point play by Rucker brought the Cats even at 27, and a layup by senior Gerry Born put Davidson ahead to stay. The Cats gradually expanded the lead and at intermission the score was 41-34, Davidson. Eckerd was never able to seriously challenge the Cats in the second half, as Davidson's superior height and talent began to tell on the visitors. With five minutes to play Davidson had a comfortable 72-53 lead, allowing Coach Hussey to go to his bench. The Cats’ only freshman, Bill Sellers, played well, collecting five points and three rebounds in five minutes, and sophomore guard Dean Kenner collected four points and three rebounds in the final minutes.

Jeff Himes: Into the rafters

Mat men are ready to move

The Wildcat wrestling team will present a blend of new and old faces this season. Several experienced wrestlers return, but three freshmen, a sophomore, and a junior who have never wrestled on the collegiate level will play important parts in the team’s success. Junior Mike Adams should start at 115 pounds. He had a 12-13 record as a freshman, but he did not wrestle last year. Junior Marc Wennberg and sophomore Steve Lau each have one year’s experience. Lau started at 118 last year and Wennberg was at 126. These two should fill the 126 and 134 slots for this year. Freshman Rufus Timberlake should provide backup at these positions. Sophomore Bill Breidenstein will wrestle at 142 pounds. He did not wrestle last year, but he was an excellent high school wrestler in Pennsylvania. Bill’s brother John '84 was an excellent wrestler for the Cats. Freshman Mark Harris should provide a backup to Bill. Junior John T. Lay returns as Davidson’s most experienced wrestler. Lay, the team co-captain, should provide leadership and experience at 150 pounds. He has had two good seasons with perhaps his best performance coming when he won the Washington and Lee Tournament as a freshman. Freshman Sherban Sentell and sophomore Tim Heinze will fill the 158 and 167 slots. Sentell is an excellent athlete, but an inexperienced wrestler. Heinze had an excellent freshman season at the 177, 190, and heavyweight slots and his weight loss has made him a better wrestler. Junior Don Stovall will bring one year's experience to the 177-pound class. He wrestled well last season for the Cats. Senior Griff Elder will hold down the 190 spot. He wrestled part of a season for Davidson last year. He is an experienced wrestler and an excellent athlete. Junior Gary Brown will be the Cats' heavyweight. He has not wrestled on the college level before, but was an excellent high school wrestler. He finished fifth in the North Carolina State Tournament as a senior. Senior Taylor Sampson is unable to wrestle now because of an injured leg. He may be able to wrestle later in the season at the 142 or 150 classes. Senior co-captain Brad Essman is also unable to wrestle for medical reasons. An excellent wrestler last year at 150, his loss really hurts the Cats. Davidson has already performed in two open tournaments, one at Pembroke State and the other at Elon. Although the Cats won no individual matches, they did gain some valuable match experience. The next match for the Cats will be the Stetson open over the Christmas Holidays in Florida. Davidson opens the regular season on January 11.

All-tournament team for their consistent outstanding play during the weekend. The talent provided by newcomers Dawkins and freshman Sarah Whitesides, and transfer Artman combined with returning players makes a greatly improved team. After such a great start everyone looks toward the rest of the season with high expectations. In closing Daley said: “I am extremely pleased with our position in the season at this point. We are a highly adaptable team and I think we will improve even more and prove to be very consistent.” For the game, Davidson was led by Rucker, who pumped in 21 points while shooting 9-10 from the field. Rucker had plenty of support from Heineman (14 points), Born (13), and sophomore Jeff Himes (12). Born led the team in rebounds with nine and senior Ken Niebuhr had seven. The Wildcats play in Charlotte Friday, squaring off against UNCC in the “Battle for the Hornet's Nest.” The game will be played at 7:30 p.m. in the Charlotte Coliseum. Sports Information