Friday, October 25, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson - 3

The United Nations celebrates 40 years

Headlining the news for the week of October 17-23:

Internationally—
In South Africa, after resisting international pleas to grant clemency, the government executed black activist Benjamin Moloise for the murder of a black police officer. Following the execution, rage and violence among angry blacks swept the predominantly white city of Johannesburg; this marked the first time whites have been attacked there. In Cape Town, 10,000 black South African Muslims gathered for the funeral of a slain member; some carried signs calling for a holy war against apartheid. Violence continued to plague the black township of Soweto as the result of inter-tribal rivalries. Meanwhile, to protest apartheid, the 49 members of the British Commonwealth issued sanctions against South Africa. President Botha is threatening to withhold exports of chromium and other metals to the U.S., saying that such withholdings could cause the loss of one million jobs in the American auto industry. In a political rally Monday night, President Botha, while admitting that changes will have to be made, rejected the possibility of equal voting rights for blacks.

In Italy, Prime Minister Craxi resigned over the handling of the Oct. 7 hijacking of the Achille Lauro and the release of PLO member Abdul Abbas; however, at the request of the Italian President Francesco Cossiga, Craxi will head a new coalition government which will be the nation’s 45th new government since the Second World War. President Reagan sent Craxi a personal letter to repair the strained U.S.-Italian relationship; the letter was warmly received. President Reagan also sent Deputy Secretary of State Whitehead to Egypt, then on to Tunisia, in further efforts to ease tensions caused by the Achille Lauro incident. In Egypt, President Mubarak ordered a halt to all anti-American protests and is resisting pressures to sever relations with the U.S. and Israel. Wednesday, the Italian press reported that one of the captured hijackers confessed that Abbas was the mastermind of the Achille Lauro hijacking. Funeral services were held in New York for Leon Klinghoffer, the American murdered in the hijacking.

In his address to the United Nations earlier this week, Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres called for direct talks with Jordan to put an end to the 37-year-old war between the two countries. Peres said that he would consider an international conference — excluding the PLO but including the U.S.S.R. and China — if the Soviet Union made the first move to reopen diplomatic channels and if China formally recognized Israel. Jordan is reportedly considering the proposal, but is said to be more interested in the Syrian-Jordanian accord announced Monday; the accord eases strained relations between the two countries and commits them to the international peace conference framework made in the 1982 conference in Fez, Morocco.

Elsewhere in the world — in the Philippines, President Marcos reportedly denied the severity of a communist insurgency threat to his government expressed in a message carried by Senator Laxalt from President Reagan last week. In Lebanon, a caller claiming to represent the kidnappers of the Soviet Embassy officials said that the second of the four Soviets had been executed; no confirmation of the claim has yet been made. In a statement made in the Soviet newspaper Pravda, the Soviet Union said that it will begin to put nuclear missiles in space if the U.S. does not put a stop to the development of the Strategic Defense Initiative (“star wars”). In the U.S., Secretary of State Shultz said that the S.D.I. will adhere to the guidelines expressed in the 1972 A.B.M. treaty; the U.S. is considering a proposal that would allow for negotiations with the Soviets, as well as allowing for a five to seven year notice before making any deployment of an S.D.I. system. Defense Secretary Weinberger accused the U.S.S.R. of violating the S.A.L.T. II treaty by deploying new intercontinental ballistic missiles. The seven Warsaw Pact nations gathered in Bulgaria on Monday to endorse Soviet leader Gorbachev’s arms proposal. The U.S. is investigating whether or not the People’s Republic of China has been violating a non-proliferation agreement by exporting material that could be used to make bombs to Brazil, Argentina, Pakistan, Iran, and South Africa. Finally, this week marks the 40th anniversary of the founding of the United Nations; over 80 world leaders are expected to attend the festivities in New York.

Domestically—
The Pentagon announced that all active-duty personnel in the armed forces — over two million people — will be tested for exposure to the AIDS virus; those found to have it will be prevented from combat in overseas deployment. A minor earthquake, measuring 3.8 on the Richter scale, shook the east coast on Saturday; vibrations were felt from Philadelphia to Canada. The Chrysler Corp. and the United Auto Workers reached a tentative agreement to end the week-long strike of 70,000 Chrysler employees; 10,000 striking Chrysler employees in Canada resolved their labor dispute earlier in the week. Finally, doctors report that despite a few complications, Anthony Mardia, the first recipient of the new Penn State artificial heart, is doing well but is desperately awaiting a donor heart for transplant.

Thought for the week — “What you habitually express, you ultimately become.” — Dr. Walter Kalaf

By KEITH FINCH

The Trustee Finance Committee has decided to sell the Wildcat Den, a house located in Little Switzerland, N.C., because of upkeep costs. The den has served as a location for group retreats and gatherings over the past five years. College Business Manager Robert Currie pointed out that the most significant cost involved in retaining the Wildcat Den is its continual depreciation, particularly in a situation where no one is living in the house and providing for its regular maintenance. “One fear I have with a $300,000 asset is how long you can keep it without properly maintaining it,” he said, “You’d need a person living on the site.” Currie said out-of-pocket expenses for theden’s upkeep amounted to about $1800 last year. This amount included costs for electricity, caretaking, miscellaneous repairs, and such tasks as pruning and lawn upkeep. He said last year “was not a typical year, but it can give you some idea of our costs.” When asked how much it would cost the college to maintain the Den if the decision to sell was rescinded, Currie emphasized the fact that the depreciation of the house was the most important aspect of the expense of its retention. He estimated that the proper upkeep of the Wildcat Den would cost the College between $3000 and $4000 per year, providing that the Den was not kept open during the winter. He pointed out that keeping the Den open in the winter would cost the College between $800 and $900 during each of the winter months for heating. Currie further commented, “I sort of doubt that fees could cover such high out-of-pocket costs.”

Only after much discussion and thought did the college decide to sell the house, Currie said. He said that the idea of sale was brought before the Trustee Finance Committee last December and was brought to their attention again last February, at which time the Committee authorized the sale of the Den for between $290,000 and $300,000. The house has been on the market since the middle of the summer. Currie said the sale may be difficult, “It could very well be a difficult thing to sell,” he said, “chances are that we're not going to be able to sell it any time soon.”

The Wildcat Den is located in the Blue Ridge in Little Switzerland, North Carolina. It has 8500 square feet of interior space and is situated on a one-and-a-half acre plot of land. In the past, it has been open for use by groups from Davidson College and other institutions during about eight weeks in autumn and 10 to 12 weeks in the spring, Currie said. He said that the current practice involves winterizing the house around the first of November and opening it again in March.

Debbie Young, Student Housing Assistant in charge of group reservations for the use of the Den, said the house is used for many different activities. Some of the groups that used the house recently include Davidson fraternities, J.C. Smith University, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the North Carolina Fellows program, the Davidson Admissions Department, the Davidson Art Department, the Y Student Service Corps, WDAV, and a philosophy class. Young said the task of managing the groups who want to use the Den is minimal and causes no problems in the Housing Office. The method used to arrange for repairs to the Den depends upon students returning from weekends there to communicate what needs to be done, Young said. She also pointed out that the house has had some significant physical problems recently. “It has potential,” she said, “but it’s going to have to have some renovation.” She added, “It’s not falling apart, but I know there have been some problems with the plumbing, water pressure, and so on.”

The Housing Office has not allowed any more groups to reserve weekends for the use of the Den since this June, Young said, because of an April 18, 1985 letter from President John Kuykendall stating his decision that students should not use the house while it was on the market. However, Kuykendall allowed the Housing Office to honor the reservations of groups that had already asked to use the house, Young said.

The planned sale of the house has generated a degree of concern among Davidson students. “I’ve heard a lot of students express to this office, and up in Chambers, that they were disappointed with the sale of the house,” Young said. She added that the members of a recent trip to the Den were surprised by the College’s decision; “Dr. Maydole told his group that they were thinking about selling it, and they were really shocked,” she said. A petition is currently being circulated among students who wish to see the college reconsider its decision. Linda Tatsapaugh, in a letter to last week's Davidsonian, wrote that the petition is “not for protest, but merely an affirmation of student support.”

Dean Rusk (continued from page 1) during the 1960s he encountered only one incident involving his personal security. Today, however, “We are in the danger of returning to a new age of barbarism. The very institution of communication between governments is breaking down.” In a given hostage situation, he said that “It’s easy to bomb somebody, but then you pick up corpses. But we owe our government allegiance, and in return they owe us appropriate protection. It’s important to give the first priority to hostages.”

Rusk warned the present generation of Davidson students that “during these decades, the entire human race will face the problems which have never been faced before: the nuclear problem, the energy problem, the possibility that man can inflict irreparable damage on his environment, the population explosion, and massive hunger.” He added: “We must do something about those differences among people of languages, nationalities, and cultures. These differences create turmoil everywhere. We must do better than that. Each of us can make a start from where we are right now. Write letters to the President or Secretary of State. Find an organization to work with, or prepare yourself for specific service in government. The most important thing has to do with the selection of people that have dominion in public life. Work in campaigns for the selection of people in public service.”

Finally, concerning the strategic defense initiative, Rusk said: “It will be ten years before we know whether it is scientifically possible. It would cost hundreds of billions of dollars. And the Soviet Union can probably do whatever we can do. The idea we can gain a temporary advantage over them is an illusion.” He added: “I hope we will not move the arms race into outer space. I want my future grandchildren to look into space and say the heavens declare the beauty of God, and not the folly of man.”