---

By EDWIN PAGE

The Davidson baseball team may only have a .500 record, but they’re hitting like a top 20 team.

Only five teams in the country are hitting more than the 1.56 home runs a game that the Cats have produced this year. The team is scoring 8.1 runs per game, placing them seventh nationally. Freshman Alan Lewis is batting a phenomenal .443, which ranks 19th, and classmate Terry Rupp is hitting .429, the 23rd best average in the NCAA.

Despite all of these impressive statistics, the Cats have yet to begin winning consistently. Last weekend provided a good example of the promise and frustrating inconsistency of the young team. In the first game of Saturday’s doubleheader against Furman, the Cats were clinging to a 12-8 lead heading into the final inning. Freshman David Fitzgerald took the mound for the Cats and the first hitter he faced drew a walk. The next two batters singled and the score was 12-9. After retiring the next batter, Fitzgerald issued another walk to load the bases. Fitzgerald forced the next batter to hit a ground ball that should have been turned into a game-ending double play, but the defense failed and an error allowed the Paladins to score two runs on the way to a 13-12 victory.

In the nightcap, the Cats rode a grand slam by sophomore David Turgeon in the fourth inning, added a five-run fifth inning, and took an easy 10-3 victory. Fitzgerald, the loser in the first game, evened his tally for the day by collecting the win.

Tuesday's game against UNCC featured an unusually exciting finish. Freshman Bill Masse’s grand slam gave Davidson an early 7-2 lead. After UNCC knotted the game at 7, a home run from Turgeon (extending his hitting streak to 12 games) helped give the Cats an 8-7 lead.

But once again the Cats couldn't hold on. As they came to bat in the ninth, they were down 10-8. After a leadoff double by Masse, the Cats hit two straight ground balls for outs, leaving Masse at third. Lewis, riding an 11-game hitting streak, nipped a clutch single to right to score Masse. Rupp followed and hit a routine grounder to third base. Fortunately for Davidson, the fielder threw high when he tried to force Lewis at second and the Cats were still alive.

Sophomore Dave Depaul beat out an infield single and when the throw bounced away, Lewis broke for the plate. The first baseman recovered the ball and threw home, but the ball caromed away from the catcher. When this happened, sophomore Gary Stewart, pinch running for Rupp, headed for home. It is still unclear in the minds of most observers exactly how Stewart got to third base so quickly, but as the ball rolled away, there he was. The third baseman couldn't field the ball cleanly and Stewart slid home safely with the winning run, lifting the Cats to 9-9 for the season. Finally, the Cats came out on the top side of a close game, possibly giving them a boost towards better things.

“Maybe this game will help us turn it around,” said junior Keith Helfant. If it does, it will be just in time. The Cats travel to first place Western Carolina this weekend for a crucial three-game series that will have a large impact on their playoff chances. The team must win one, and two wins could keep them right in the thick of the playoff hunt. The Cats' next home game is Tuesday against Warren Wilson, and on Wednesday they travel to Charlotte for a rematch with UNCC.