10 - THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor
Kevin Horan, Executive Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Brooke Knight, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor
Stephen Mank, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager
Amy Harrell, Circulation Manager

Apathy — It seems like just two weeks ago we attempted this same message in a humorous way. This time
it's not quite as funny. Apathy has overtaken this campus and, like the flu bug that runs rampant in the
winter, has infected us all, including not just students in general, but student leaders, and yes, even the faculty.

Forum
At first glance, the attendance at Tuesday’s SGA open forum brought thoughts of the old saying, “Oh, the SGA is
useless, anyhow.” But after a couple of minutes of serious thought, it became evident that the word “useless” has become
the Davidson apathetic response that typifies our campus. The SGA is a very useful organization, without which students would have
little to no voice in many campus issues. They, too, as many campus organizations this spring, decided it was time
to get the kinks out of their organization. Beadsie Woo made a bold step in opening up their organization to
critique by the entire campus. This was the time for you to explain why the prevalent SGA phrase is useless—perhaps
it is “useless” because of low campus involvement. Incidentally, the only people who showed up, besides the members of the
SGA panel, were one student and one faculty member—Good Show, Davidson!

SGA Meeting
You may say, “but that is just one isolated incident.” It is just scratching the surface. Not to single out
the SGA, Tuesday night was, perhaps, the most important SGA meeting of the year: the approval of the ATC budgets.
ATC Chairperson Anne Miano noted the poor attendance and relayed her disappointment. The SGA barely had a quorum. The Davidsonian
and Quips and Cranks were the only organizations represented by their student leaders and, as you know by now, the
ATC made some serious cuts in student proposed budgets. The SGA senators who were present seemed to have some questions
and to feel hesitant about a few of the proposals, but no one was present to answer any questions. Bravo!
What will we do for an encore? Considering the poor showing at convocation by underclassmen, the encore is self-evident. Will
anybody be at Graduation or shall we just cancel it due to lack of interest? To quote, “Is anybody out
there? Does anybody really care?”

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of
the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates.
Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Ted Wilson, Assistant News Editor, Richard Cloudt, Andrea Diedrich, Roxanna Guilford, Nelle McCorkle, Stephen Mank, Tom Schilling, Lee
White, Allison Wills
Arts and Entertainment Staff: Bill Bugg, Craig Detweiler, Thurston Hatcher, Matt Morris, Samuel Scott, Treeby Williams, Allison Wills
Sports Staff: Patricia Hahn, Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley, Perry Mathewes, Edwin Page
Photography Staff: Christian Harberts, Assistant Photography Editor; Brad Brechtelsbauer, Jill Boyette, Phillip Dennis, Warriner Inge, Rocky Kmiecik, Bruce von Stein
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey
Advertising Staff: Joanneke Brentjens, David Van Pelt
Production Staff: Pauline Rhodes, David Soud
Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Anne Lambert, Lisa Lano, Martha Yeide, Frank Roberts

Friday, May 3, 1985

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NOW IF I CHANGE ROOMS A FEW TIMES AND SWITCH ROOMMATES OFF-AND-ON AND JOIN TWO OR MORE FRATERNITIES... HEY! BY
SPRING TERM SENIOR YEAR, I'LL BE EXACTLY WHERE I WANT

Letters

Criticism
To the Editors:
I think that you are doing a good job with The Davidsonian, however, I have one complaint. I have just
as much interest in...What is going to happen at Davidson as in what I missed? I realize that events are
publicized on the back page, but the calendar seldom goes into detail. For example, the calendar told us that there
was going to be a May Day Festival, but it did not tell us that Janet Stovall and Lauren Smith
are going to read their own poetry or that Alva Moore was going to sing or even that it was
an event sponsored by every woman's group on campus. Beadsie’s letter about the SGA Forum should have at best sparked
interest in an article. At worst, the letter deserved an appropriate headline. Her letter had very little to do with
“Elections.” Also, why was there a huge article on Night Mother, a play that will not open for another week,
but there was nothing on the Drama Department’s production of The Tempest until after it opened (and even then the
article was short and vague). I think that Night Mother is an important play, but The Tempest is running first—and
it involves more people. Don’t you think that the timing was slightly off? This is probably wishful thinking, but maybe
Davidson people would not be as apathetic if they are better informed. Granted it is up to the individual to
be informed, but it does not help when each Friday we are told all about the events that we missed.

Sarah Smith

Editor’s Note: An article on The Tempest also appeared in the April 10 edition of The Davidsonian.

Mistake

To the Editors:

There was a mistake in the article entitled “ATC Cuts Proposed Budgets, Lacks Funds,” in the April 26 issue of
The Davidsonian. According to Peggy Pierotti, the 1985 Quips and Cranks received less money from the Activities Tax Council than
it had asked for because of an addition mistake. This is not true. We received roughly $2500 less because the
ATC lacked funds and was forced to cut many of the publications’ budgets. The Davidsonians of early May last year
attest to this fact. To cope with the lack of funds, the 1985 Quips and Cranks has cut all salaried
positions (editors, darkroom, typists) and has reduced the amount of color in the book. We have also increased our advertising
campaign. In all other respects, the book is of the same quality as years past.

The Quips and Cranks Staff, 1985.

Civil Rights

To the Editors:

We would like to respond to the editorial by James Lewis concerning the student die-in sponsored by the Davidson College
Peace Coalition. Mr. Lewis asserts, “These same students, however, should realize that if they tried to hold a die-in in
those countries in which America is trying to aid the cause of freedom, those people would not need to pretend
to be dead, for the governments of those countries would make sure they were dead... members of the peace coalition
should be happy that they live in a country where they have the right of free expression.”

We agree with the sentiment that we are very lucky to live in a country where freedom of expression is
permitted. Non-violent protestors, however, are not only in danger under those governments the United States is fighting against. Now and
in the past, our government has, for largely economic reasons, supported totalitarian regimes much more brutal and restrictive than the
government we are currently fighting in Nicaragua. For instance, the U.S. is currently supporting, both economically and militarily, the government
of Guatemala where political opponents are usually shot publicly or simply disappear. It is because of the tyranny of such
far-right governments that socialist and communist movements are able to take power in countries like Vietnam and Nicaragua. Though the
current situation in Nicaragua is quite different from that in Vietnam, if the United States continues with the same foreign
policy, the Nicaraguan government could become as great an enemy to its people as that of Vietnam. Our country was
founded because of opposition to an unjust ruler. The peace coalition die-in was staged in order to protest...
