The Davidsonian
Volume LXXV, Number 5
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, October 18, 1985

Suspects charged in recent crimes
By NELLE McCORKLE

Dean of Students Will Terry wrote and sent notices to students in on-campus housing last Friday concerning two recent campus
crimes. Terry said both incidents occurred on campus in different dorms. “Security was on the ball in both cases,” he
said.

The first incident involved an 18-year-old male entering a female student’s room in the early morning of September 22. Davidson
Town Police Captain Jack Warlick said Lonnie Lee Cornelius, an 18-year-old Davidson resident, is charged with first-degree sexual offense and
first-degree burglary in the incident. Davidson Police apprehended Cornelius, who was held in the Mecklenburg County jail. Cornelius is currently
out on bail awaiting trial in superior court. Also charged with first-degree burglary in the incident is a 15-year-old black
male.

According to Terry, the second crime mentioned in his notice was “a theft in a women’s dorm at two o’clock
in the morning.” Committed during the week of September 30, no suspect has been charged in the case.

Following the two crimes, Terry said his plan for campus security is “to continue to urge students to lock their
doors — they are just sitting ducks.” He said, “We are trying to get locks” on the outside doors of
Akers, Irwin, and Knox dormitories. “I think the time has come when we’re going to have to go to [a
locked-door system],” Terry said. He added that he does not plan to increase campus security patrolling.

Rick Moore of the Davidson College police force defined first-degree sexual offense, one of the charges in the first incident,
as a felony involving engagement in a sexual act other than intercourse with a person other than the defendant’s legal
spouse by force against that person’s will; the assailant must also have used or displayed a dangerous weapon, inflicted serious
personal injury on another person, or have been aided and abetted by one or more other persons (in the college
incident, Moore said the defendant is charged with the latter). Moore defined first-degree burglary as breaking and entering, without consent,
the dwelling or sleeping apartment of another person while it is actually occupied at night with the intent to commit
any felony or larceny.

Terry’s notice to students, titled “For Your Information,” read: Two incidents have occurred recently, once again indicating the need for
women to be careful about their safety. Both of the incidents involved a non-college person entering a room late at
night (early in the morning). One of the incidents is being prosecuted. It is not possible to prosecute the second
one due to the inability to identify the intruder. It is essential that students lock their rooms at night and
report any stranger seen on a hall.

Convocation features inauguration of Dean Rusk program
By DAVID WILLIAMS

Former Secretary of State Dean Rusk ’31 will appear at Fall Convocation this Thursday for the inauguration of the Dean
Rusk Program in International Studies. To complement the international focus of the Convocation, the Davidson-Wurzburg agreement will be formally recognized.

“It’s a rather historic occasion,” said Jack Perry, Director of the Dean Rusk Program. “Mr. Rusk is a figure of
major historical importance. This is the first chance that the present generation of Davidson students can meet him. I think
it would be a shame to miss this opportunity because Mr. Rusk has thought more deeply of the great issues
of war and peace in our time than anyone else I am aware of.”

Assistant to the President Rick Love said: “The Convocation is a chance for us to come together and say that
finally we’re beginning to tangibly accomplish the things we’ve worked for. The Dean Rusk program has been in the planning
and fundraising stages for a long time. We have a very competent and well-respected director, and we have inspiration from
the individual for whom the program was named.”

President Theodor Berchem and Chancellor Reinhard Paul Gunther of Julius-Maximilian’s University of Wurzburg, Germany will appear at the Convocation. President
Kuykendall will award Berchem and Gunther with honorary degrees.

Former Secretary of State Dean Rusk ’31. Davidson’s JYA program in Germany will move to Julius-Maximilian’s University beginning in the
1986-87 year. The ceremonial signing of the agreement for educational exchange be-The event between Davidson College and Julius Maximilian’s University
will be held at 9:30 a.m. in the Baxter Davidson Room in Chambers next Thursday prior to the Convocation. In
1931, Rusk graduated Phi Beta Kappa and was named Davidson’s sixth Rhodes Scholar. He received B.S. and M.A. degrees from
St. John’s College, Oxford, where he also received the Cecil Peace Prize in 1933. He studied at the University of
Berlin and the University of California Law School.

Analyzing his role in the Vietnam war, Rusk stated: "There is nothing I can say now which would diminish in
any way the events of those years. My generation of students... came out of [World War II] thinking that collective
security was the key to the prevention of World War III. We should understand why there might be erosion of
collective security among the American people. We’ve put up 90 percent of the non-Korean forces in Korea, and 80 percent
of the non-Vietnamese forces in Vietnam. So if my cousins here in Georgia were to say to me, ‘Look, if
collective security means 50,000 dead every ten years, and it’s not even collective, maybe it’s not a good idea,’ I
have profound respect for that reaction. But that still leaves these young people with the question, ‘If not collective security,
how do we propose to prevent World War III?’"

Concerning the possibility of a future global nuclear war, Rusk added: "If we simply drift back into that combination of
pacifism, isolation, and indifference, which led my generation of students into the catastrophe of World War II, then I have
very serious concerns about the future. We have to think hard about that question and this new generation must find
its own answer, because this time there’s a difference. Think-tanks, some politicians, some media people, and some professors string all
sorts of words together to create the most alarming and horrible scenario, but I myself do not see a single
situation in the real world that is pointing toward nuclear war."

He added: "Now in a democracy, it’s the private citizen who occupies the loftiest position in our constitutional system. Each
one of us must accept our own possibilities. We have no choice but to try [to solve our world problems].
Otherwise, we dig a foxhole and lay in there. We need to think about what it means to be a
human being, or as others have put it, ‘a child of God.’"

Dean Rusk was born in Cherokee County, Georgia in 1909. He graduated from Boys High School, Atlanta, in 1925. He
worked for a lawyer for two years before enrolling at Davidson. At Davidson, Rusk was freshman class president, manager of
the Student Store, president of the YMCA, and commander of the ROTC Battalion, reaching the rank of Cadet Lt. Colonel.
Rusk taught at Mills College in California from 1934-1940 and was appointed dean of faculty in 1938. In 1940 he
was called to active duty in the U.S. Army and eventually rose to the rank of Colonel. He was deputy
chief of staff in the China-Burma-India Theater and was awarded the Legion of Merit with Oak Leaf Cluster.

Rusk began his State Department career in 1946 as assistant chief of the Division of International Security Affairs. He served
in a variety of positions culminating in his appointment as Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs in 1950.
From 1952-1961 Rusk served as President of the Rockefeller Foundation. In 1960 President-elect John F. Kennedy appointed Rusk Secretary of
State. Rusk served for eight years under Presidents Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson. "It's quite a thing for this country to
let a barefoot, freckle-faced boy from Cherokee County serve as its Secretary of State, and so you have to be
respectful of a country that even lets that happen," Rusk said in a recent interview for the Southern Center for
International Studies.

Since 1970, Rusk has served as Professor of International Law at the University of Georgia in Athens. He has remained
active with Davidson College, serving as trustee and honorary chairman of the Davidson 1987 program.

INSIDE:
- WDAV: better facilities. New building to provide.
- Vandalism: Dean and housing director discuss damages, possible solutions. Page 2
- New Hotel: Holiday Inn planned for Cornelius. Page 3
- Rape Crisis Center: McLemore defines goals, responsibilities. Page 8
