THE Volume LXXIV, Number 15, Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036 Friday, February 8, 1985

Jeff Himes makes a fast move against UT-C. See story on p. 4.

Davidson Administrator, 57, Dies Of Heart Attack

E. Lee Willingham III, executive director of constituent programs and director of the Living Endowment at Davidson College, died last Monday, Feb. 4, following a heart attack suffered in Columbus, Ga., the previous day. He was 57.

Willingham, of 412 Concord Road in Davidson, had been a member of the development staff here since 1978. “It’s been quite a shock to us all,” President John Kuykendall said. “He was one of those people who loved Davidson so completely that he not only had a job here, but committed his whole life to the institution.”

An ordained Presbyterian minister, Willingham graduated from Davidson in 1948 with an A.B. degree in English. While a student at Davidson, he was vice-president of the student body, president of the male chorus, named to Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity, and a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. He earned his master’s degree in divinity, cum laude, from Columbia Theological Seminary in 1951.

Before returning to Davidson, Willingham served as pastor of churches in (continued on page 4)

Kuykendall Approves All Women’s Eating House

By LEE WHITE

Yesterday President John Kuykendall approved a proposal for a new all-women’s eating house on campus. The proposal was submitted to Kuykendall by Dean of Students Will Terry after the Committee on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) approved it Monday by an 8-0-1 vote. Freshmen women may self-select the new house this week.

Kuykendall said there existed some questions concerning the amount of use the house would get, but there are no basic problems with the proposal, he said. Self-Selection lists were distributed to freshmen yesterday.

According to sophomore Connie Clark and freshman Cameron Chalmers, who led efforts to establish the new house, the house will be called Spencer House, in honor of former Davidson President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. In a letter accepting the honor, Clark said, Spencer mentioned his pride in the fact that it was during his administration that Davidson became a co-ed institution. Spencer House will open next fall term. This spring, Clark and Chalmers hope to have a social calendar. The new house would occupy either the former ATO or F & M houses.

Eighty-two women signed the proposal approved by the CCRL. The proposal states “A definite need exists for the establishment of such a house...” and gives the following information:

— The results of a survey conducted between Jan. 24 and 28, 1985, showed 96 percent of 115 freshmen women polled felt that there is a need for a third all-women’s eating house.
— Also, 82 percent of the freshmen women polled expressed a desire to eat in a single-sex house.
— Eighty-one percent of the freshmen women polled who are planning to join a co-ed eating house recognized the need for a third all-women’s eating house.
— After Self-Selection last year, 54 women were put on the waiting list at Rusk (presently, 22 women remain on that list).
— Approximately 20 women were put on the waiting list at Warner Hall after Self-Selection last year.
— The current presidents of both Rusk and Warner Hall have expressed their support for the new house.

Members of CCRL felt that the proposal proved there was a need for a new all-women’s house. SGA president John Laughlin said the proposal showed a definite desire for the new house and thus obligated the CCRL to approve it. “We should not try to keep students from eating as they want,” he said. SGA Vice-President Beadsie Woo felt that the need for the house was demonstrated by the number ofFreshmen who are committed to the new house. According to CCRL member Beth Maczka, the evidence of support for a new house from those who wish to join and those in other eating houses convinced her. She noted, however, a possible effect on the co-ed houses. “The general concern [at the meeting] was for the co-ed houses,” she said. Laughlin also referred to the apprehension about the remaining co-ed houses and said he hoped they could “survive and thrive.” CCRL member Elizabeth Brooks said she thought the immediate effect of a new house might be to “skew the houses,” but felt that in the long run the numbers would equal out. She said if 60 women join the new house, and if the two co-ed houses get 15 freshman women apiece, which Brooks said is about the number they usually get, 90 freshman women would have the options to eat at Rusk, Warner Hall, the Commons, or go independent. Other CCRL members did not feel that a third all-women’s eating house would create undue competition between (continued on page 4)

Ambiguities In Self-Selection System Draw Criticism

By TED WILSON

Amid questions about Davidson’s social system, freshmen began self-selecting Patterson Court houses yesterday. Some students have expressed concern that the on-campus fraternities are operating on an actual bid system which they believe should not be called Self-Selection. No one idea has emerged, however, to answer the system's problems.

Dean of Students Will Terry formed a Self-Selection Committee last year to regulate the system. During rush period this year, the Self-Selection Committee investigated three cases of possible oral discouragements, according to chairman Charles Jenkins. He said subcommittees consisting of two people each determined if there was enough information to merit charges. Two cases were dropped because they were not oral discouragements, Jenkins said. He said the freshmen involved misinterpreted information they had received secondhand.

Jenkins said the other case resulted in a written warning to Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. “It definitely was an oral discouragement,” he said. “There were so many extenuating circumstances that the action we took was a written warning against what had happened and an explanation on how we made a decision.” Jenkins said the discouragement resulted because “one person [was] acting on his own and not on behalf of the fraternity. That’s why it’s a warning.”

The Committee held several meetings concerning Self-Selection on freshman halls to educate freshmen about the system. Jenkins said the Committee learned about the oral discouragement case, which resulted in the warning to PiKA, at one of these meetings. It also found through the question and answer sessions that “freshmen are not satisfied with the Self-Selection system,” Jenkins said. He said a big flaw of the system is that freshmen may not want to bring a complaint against a fraternity to the Committee for fear of hurting their social life later on.

The Committee counsels freshmen who are having difficulty with Self-Selection, seeks to eliminate the past abuses of the system, and to adjudicate abuses if they arise. However, one freshman said, “I would be very reluctant to bring [a charge] up to the Committee. It would be the last thing I'd want to make public or talk about.” Terry said he had no way of judging whether the number of oral discouragements has increased since last year, but that “practically nobody has come up to talk to me about it.”

Some freshmen pledging fraternities, freshmen remaining independent, and upperclassmen have expressed dissatisfaction with the system. Some students are concerned the system is a bid system in disguise. One pledge said, “It’s simply a farce; it doesn't exist beyond the co-ed eating houses.” Another freshman said, “There's no distinction between an oral encouragement and a bid — it's ridiculous the school doesn't call it a bid.” (continued on page 4)