Arts & Entertainment

Art Show
Jackson’s Work On Display
By MATT MORRIS

In his afterward to Lolita, Russian author Vladimir Nabokov boldly states, “I am neither a reader nor a writer of
didactic fiction . . . for me a work of fiction exists only insofar as it affords me what I
shall call aesthetic bliss, that sense of being somehow, somewhere connected with other States of being where art (curiosity, tenderness,
kindness, ecstasy) is the norm.” Had they met, Herb Jackson and Vladimir Nabokov would undoubtedly be close friends.

Now on display in Chambers, this Davidson artist’s drawings reach not for a moral code, or any particular “meaning” but
instead stimulate on a more visual basis. Jackson leaves the interpretation, the “guiding hand,” where, as Nabokov points out, it
really belongs — in the audience’s own heart and soul. While Jackson may not paint a neo-expressionist picture of a
mushroom cloud, just by allowing the eye to voyage into his playful, mysterious, solemn drawings, you can be sure he
is aware, and in touch with basic human dilemmas, joys and sorrows.

Jackson is an “abstract” artist only in the sense that Billie Holliday is an “abstract” vocalist — what she sings
is ultimately not as important as how she sings. Using countless layers of oil-crayon coloring, Jackson’s works refuse to settle
on a single tone and through time can be viewed as organic, perpetually changing “pieces of nature.” Pollock’s famous statement
“I am nature” rings loudly in Jackson’s drawings and like nature itself, there is a different way of seeing each
piece every day. P73, a typically lush Jackson drawing filled with vibrant fields of blue and leather-tan, first reminded me
of a soft, diffused summer day, but upon returning to the piece I found it had become something angrier, its
elements coming together in a more disconcerting way. (I’m anxious to find out what it does to me tomorrow.)

Many have tried to pigeonhole Jackson’s style, with artists like William Baziotes, Mark Rothko and of course the ghost of
Jackson Pollock roaming around somewhere within his canvases and drawings. However, Jackson is just too fine an artist for this
sort of sinful evaluation. His works occupy their own space in the universe. In a broader, more spiritual sense perhaps,
Jackson cannot escape his own roots — he is a true Southern gentleman artist and this comes out in each
of his works. On the surfaces of his drawings, all is quiet and seemingly peaceful, yet underneath there are suggestions
of darker, more mystical implications strangely unique to

ATTENTION DAVIDSON STUDENTS!!!
Present copy of this ad and receive an introductory 25% discount on your purchase (good thru Sept. 30, 1985).

Quality And Fashion Apparel For The Campus With You In Mind
John Mack & Son
Great clothing and Sportswear for both Men and Women
Shetland or Cotton Sweaters, Levi Jeans (always only $14.99)
Santa Cruz for Women
Come browse and visit with us. Davidson Students haveAutomatic charge accounts at John Mack’s. Also, we will the land below
the Mason-Dixon line. The papyrus P2 appears tranquil enough, but what exactly is that monstrous form underneath the drawing’s sandy
textures? Similarly, the earliest drawing in the show, P27, has an initially sobering feel but upon closer viewing reveals an
icy behemoth-form lurking in the darkness.

Art Professor Herb Jackson. Picking a favorite would be next to impossible, (a task similar to choosing one’s favorite tree)
but at this minute P87 seems especially intriguing. With a frieze-like use of blue “mist” hanging over a jagged Franz
Kline stroke of hellish red, the drawing conjures an infinite variety of people, places, and moods. But again, that is
a personal reaction to an isolated moment in space and time. Each drawing in the show can be an “aesthetically
blissful experience.” See these drawings so you can tell your grandchildren about it. Soon, very soon, people will stop referring
to Davidson College as “the place Woodrow Wilson studied his freshman year.”

Adventurer And Rebel Speaks In Union’s 900 Room
By AARON LEVINE

Earlier this week, a rebel of sorts came to Davidson. Dr. Jack Wheeler, a combination of anthropologist, idealist, and adventurer,
spoke in the 900 Room last Monday evening. He has been trekking in Asia, Africa, and the South Pacific, throughout
jungle and desert. His experience in this regard led him to write The Adventurer’s Guide. After traveling on a grant
studying anti-Soviet rebels worldwide, Wheeler helped create The Freedom Research Foundation to support his favorite cause, anti-Marxist guerrilla movements in
Soviet-backed third-world nations. He came to Davidson to tell about his cause. He spoke vehemently on the need for the
US to support these movements, for the sake of Democracy. He spoke as an authority. He gave a slide presentation
which included his experience with the Nicaraguan “Contras,” the Afghan Mujahaddin, the UNITA fighters in Angola, and the Cambodian KPLNF.
The slide show may have provided information which otherwise would not have been explained as clearly with mere words. Wheeler
tried to show that these guerrillas are serious about winning. They really want to fight, by themselves, for themselves. CIA
aid? No way! Wheeler might not have looked like a rebel; yet like any rebel, he is controversial. Some audience
members expressed disapproval of him.

Study abroad at the ITHACA COLLEGE LONDON CENTER

Visits to the theatre, museums, galleries, schools, social and political institutions are an integral part of the SEMESTER OR YEAR
PROGRAM. ITHACA COLLEGE CREDIT. BRITISH FACULTY curriculum.

Gladly send bills to your home. COURSES — British and European studies are offered in literature, history, art history, drama,
music, sociology, education, international business, social services, communications, political science, and economics. For further information, Downtown Mooresville (only 6 miles
N). Special programs offered. Scholarships available to qualified students. International Programs, Ithaca College, Ithaca, New York 14850.
