Friday, January 18, 1985 / The Davidsonian

U.S. Policy Causes Central American Dilemma
Brooke Knight and David Soud

In the last issue of The Davidsonian, Tim Brown called upon the Civilian Military Assistance (CMA) organization to cease its
armed intervention in the current Central American conflict. Mr. Brown opined that this organization’s actions placed the U.S. in a
compromising and potentially dangerous situation. However, he blithely ignored the fact that the U.S. has already placed itself in a
precarious position in the region. Yes, the CMA should leave Central America — along with the officially sanctioned U.S. military
presence currently there.

The present explosive situations in El Salvador and especially Nicaragua are the direct results of our past and present presidential
administrations’ attempts to decide the political destinies of these countries. By supporting repressive dictatorships that happened to express some measure
of loyalty to the U.S., these administrations, in particular that of Ronald Reagan, alienated the impoverished masses under these regimes.
These masses equated American influence with their oppression, and as a result readily accepted leftist ideologies. The policy effectively backfired.
Instead of securing Central America from Communist intervention, it left the door wide open for the Moscow-Havana axis.

The best example of this failure is Nicaragua, in which Sandinista rebels overthrew the U.S.-supported dictatorship of Anastasio Somoza with
Communist aid. The Sandinistas probably petitioned the Soviet and Cuban governments for assistance, getting it under terms of a typical
“Treaty of Friendship.” The current administration’s tacit sanction of covert military aid for anti-Sandinista Contras will only aggravate the current
security threat by pushing the Sandinista junta closer toward the Soviet Union.

The Kissinger Commission’s short-sighted analysis serves as another example of U.S. policy blundering. By calling for increases in military aid
to “friendly” governments, the commission is advocating the continuation of a policy that has already demonstrated its infeasibility. Even the
motives behind the current administration’s policies are dubious. Intervening under the pretense of democratic benevolence, our government is actually supporting
a Salvadoran junta infamous for its flaunting of the idea of human rights. Administration attempts to pressure this regime into
more humanitarian rule have been halfhearted and ineffectual. According to one government source, the U.S. pressured Nicaraguan opposition leader Jose
Cruz into dropping out of the recent elections in his country, allegedly so as not to lose some grounds for
condemnation of the Sandinista regime (otherwise, the elections could have been regarded as legitimate). Such actions are indeed suspect.

The current security problem in Central America is the result of years of misguided American policymaking; the blame for it
rests on the shoulders of our government more than any other. False pretenses and ill-founded approaches do not make for
secure allies or even stable neutral states. It would be more apt to work through accepted international institutions than to
attempt to undermine unfriendly governments, especially since such regimes have been known to give the Soviets more trouble than they
are worth if not harassed by other superpowers. The current U.S. policy is based upon the supposition that the ends
justify the means, but even such an enterprise as this is doomed to failure if the means employed are inadequate.

Knight is a freshman from Reisterstown, Md.
Soud is a freshman from Aberdeen, Md.

Steve Soud

In the wake of the forums on Racial/Ethnic concerns, I believe certain points must be highlighted for the Davidson community.
Manyof these concerns have been discussed; some of them are present for the first time. Too often Davidson limits its
potential for growth by over-comparing itself with “similar” institutions. Amherst, Dartmouth, Oberlin, Swarthmore, and Williams are unabatingly used as the
Joneses of our keep-uppance. To an extent, these comparisons are good. All these colleges are selective institutions dedicated to liberal
education. Inasmuch as they, like Davidson, feel obligated to bring students of varying race and background to their campuses, they
are similar. Insofar as these colleges are selective, they, like Davidson, have had to compete tenaciously for the talented few.
Davidson may, therefore, use Amherst’s results as a stick by which to measure its own success. Herein, however, the comparability
ends. Davidson is located in the Southeast. The Southeast is a region of compositionally different demographics from the Northeast. Davidson
is really the only institution of its kind in the region, and people acknowledge Davidson as a leader in Southern
higher education. Leadership requires responsibility. Our responsibility to blacks is made more acute by our region and its history; this
fact we must face, and here we must depart from our Northeastern collegiate brethren. Davidson must cease trying to match
the Northeastern colleges and take the lead in not only the South but also the nation. A 10-12 percent black
enrollment should be the goal. “Goal” presents a semantic problem. People have confused goal with quota. A quota would require
the College to find bodies to fill positions without regard to the capabilities of the bodies. A goal projects an
estimation. It states, “This is where we want to be,” not where we have to be. The College must have
goals so that it may evaluate its progress. Otherwise, we shall have a race without a finish line. Part of
the recruiting problem stems from the small number of Black History course offerings. It has been said that Davidson should
not offer such courses because, at other institutions, the courses have the reputation of being weak portions of the curriculum.
Should this reputation prove true, it should not deter Davidson from offering the best black studies program possible. It should
not necessarily be a major; however, it should be a dynamic, exciting part of the curriculum at a school in
a region rich in black heritage. The most important — and the most resoundingly heard — question regarding these concerns
is, “How? What are we to do?” The first step is for the College community to realize that overcoming the
problem of race at Davidson is like that of overcoming the problem of inertia. Davidson must move a sizable, inert
object. The surface over which the object must travel is made more frictional by the lack of black teachers, administrators,
and courses. To overcome the inertia, the College must place a great deal of energy into its initial effort, and
only then will the object begin to move. The energy in this case is money. It will cost Davidson to
bring blacks to Davidson and make it more habitable for them. We must face this and commit ourselves to it.
Through commitment comes change. If Davidson places its creative and financial resources behind it, the College can set a national
example of integrating a selective liberal arts college. Toward this goal, we must strive.

Soud is a College Admissions Counselor.
