6 Friday, January 25, 1985 / The Davidsonian

Davidson Hosts Salute To Black Performers

By VALERIE HINTON

“Forget your troubles, c’mon get happy” and tap your way over to Love Auditorium next Wednesday night for the unforgettable
performance of Harlem Nocturne: A Salute to Black Performers from the Cotton Club to Broadway.

The show is educational as well as entertaining. Its musical numbers are linked together with bits of narration which showcase
black performers and follow them on a musical journey from Harlem to New Orleans to Motown.

The cast of six actors, singers, and dancers recreates the music of such legendary ladies as Bessie Smith, Billie Holiday,
Lena Horne, and Pearl Bailey, not to mention such great composers as Scott Joplin, Eubie Blake, and Duke Ellington.

This is a return engagement for the group. Harlem Nocturne performed here last winter term to a small audience. Last
year the show was co-sponsored by the BSC and the Union. According to seniors Judy Harrell and Atondra Williams, students
and staff hesitated to attend a program they knew very little about. This time the Theatre Department, the BSC, and
the Union are sponsoring the show for students as well as the local community. Harrell pointed out that “some of
the best publicity will come from the few lucky ones who saw it last year. They are already spreading the
word.”

Junior Anne Lambert said, “you'll have such a great time when you're watching all that energy. You can’t help coming
home and feeling really good!” Senior Beth Maczka agreed. “What a dynamic performance. A friend and I were going to
take a quick study break and watch the show for a few minutes but we were having too much fun
to leave. This show is a great way to avoid the books for a couple of hours,” she said.

All proceeds from Wednesday’s performance of Harlem Nocturne will go for the benefit of the Davidson College Theatre Department. Proceeds
from the show are being donated by the company and the show’s producer, Fergus Currie, a 1953 Davidson graduate. Currie
has been involved in the professional entertainment business for many years and is a member of Screen Actors Guild.

High School Pianists Compete

By BILL BUGG

Twenty-three talented high school pianists from North and South Carolina competed in the Davidson Competition 1985 last weekend. In addition
to the competition, the weekend included an array of activities including a concert by a celebrated pianist and a master
class.

Each student had to play from memory a three-piece, 14-minute program with one work by either Handel, Scarlatti, or J.
S. Bach. John Noel Roberts of Furman University and Paul Nitsch of Queens College judged the preliminary auditions, which were
held Friday afternoon. Eight finalists were announced Friday night.

Concert pianist Donald Currier of the Yale University School of Music treated the students to a recital Friday night in
Love Auditorium. The concert, open to the public, consisted of works by Haydn, Schumann, Debussy, and Schubert. Currier, called “a
thoughtful, cultivated musician” by the New York Times, performed conscientiously and imaginatively. “Music should come first, then the notes,” he
said in an interview. And Friday night the depth of his music transcended even the flawless technique of his notes.

Saturday morning, Currier taught a master class, a piano lesson taught on stage to benefit not only the performer but
also the audience. Four Davidson students participated in the class, which was attended by the high school contestants, their families,
and friends.Many from the Davidson community attended. The finals were held in Hodson Hall Saturday afternoon. The eight finalists played
works ranging from Bach Preludes and Fugues to Prokofiev and Khachaturian Toccata. Three students won prizes for their outstanding performances.
Rachel Matthews of the School of the Arts in Winston-Salem received a $1200 prize for her performance of Bach’s Fugue
in F Minor, Book I. Thomas McGinnis, a high school senior from Raleigh, was awarded a $300 first prize for
his clear, crisp playing of a Bach Partita, a Chopin Ballade, and a Menotti Ricercare and Toccata. Craig Kettler, a
sophomore also from Raleigh, won a $100 second place award for his versatile performance of Bach, Chopin, and Debussy. The
Davidson Competition 1985’s success may be the impetus needed to make the event an annual one.

BE THERE

Davidson Only Goes

tors Guild and the American Federation of Television and Radio. He caught the “theatre bug” while at Davidson and has
continued to be active in college theatre as a teacher, most recently as the Director of Theatre at Emory University
from 1972 until 1982. Since that time he has worked with Atlantis Productions, his highly successful entertainment company which is
bringing Harlem Nocturne to Davidson. Theatre department Chairman Rupert Barber has been instrumental in bringing the show back. “Not enough
people saw it the first time around and now they have a second chance. This performance is definitely not to
be missed,” Barber said. Barber said Currie became interested in contributing to the Theatre department after the special Alumni Reunion
held last fall celebrating theatre at Davidson. An alumni questionnaire once asked Currie what he considered the weakest feature of
Davidson in his day, according to Barber. Currie responded, “It is the weak support given to the field of Fine
Arts in money, equipment, and faculty.” The money will be used to purchase some badly needed technical equipment, Barber said.
Tickets are on sale now in the Union, Monday through Friday, 2 to 4 p.m., and will be available at
the door prior to the performance. They are $3 for students and $5 for general admission.

Lots of fun for every age! More than 400 quality games. Send for a mailing list today! Games International 620
- 19th St. West Des Moines, IA 50265

BE THERE

Uptown Once A Year

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12

“Uptown with the House of Hunan” Celebrating The Chinese New Year VAIL COMMONS

BE THERE

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them
in their physical, mental, and spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to help each individual
child develop his or her potential should apply. One must have the ability to teach in one or more of
our specialized activities. College students, teachers, and coaches should apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is
an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is
placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery, and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing, and tripping are
extras in our excellent program. For further information write or call G. William Climer, Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 7,
Box 50, Clover, S.C., 29710 (803-831-2121).
