THE DAVIDSONIAN

Brooke Knight, Executive Editor

John Gathings, Editor
Kevin Horan, Associate Editor

Kim Crabtree, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors

Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Ann Roddey, Production Editor
David Maynard, Circulation Manager

Bill Bugg, Features Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager

Wish list

There comes a time every year when nothing of real importance happens. This is that time for 1985. Times like
these provide a real challenge to newspaper editors: hence, this editorial.

Being timely as always, we decided to compile the first ever Davidsonian Christmas Wish List, in order of importance to
us.

Dear Santa,

1) We need more parking spaces and fewer tickets.

2) The Computer Services Center needs to be open 24 hours.

3) The clocks on Chambers need to be synchronized.

4) We need at least three weeks for Christmas.

5) The dorms should be made livable, and a few resident ant-eaters would not hurt.

6) The Campus Police need real cars. LTD’s, Mustangs. Anything but tippable Cushmans.

7) It would be great to see Kuykendall on Letterman (with a late-night sky-cam close-up).

8) Please fix the lights around the court.

9) Move up the completion date for the new sports complex to next year.

10) Continue the recent progress made toward a realistic attitude concerning the “self-selection” process.

11) Provide 100 percent housing.

12) More students need to have important jobs in WDAV.

13) Add a fifth day of exams.

14) Have a computer system that doesn’t break down whenever lightning strikes.

15) Improve the election system (i.e., have people at the tables at the appropriate times).

16) We need a fish pond in front of Chambers.

Thanks, The Davidsonian

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of
the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $13 per year, or $24 per year for first class postal rates.
Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Andy Ball, Laura Batten, David Bearce, Jim Dillon, Keith Finch, Andrea Gross, Heidi Hooker, Jeff Lesesne,
Aaron Levine, Thomas Nicholson, David Williams

Features Staff: Laura Ballenger, Martha Johnson, Jenny Livingston, Matt Morris, Doug Robelen, Chris Sullivan

Sports Staff: Edwin Page, assistant sports editor; Mike Adams, Rand Hartsell

Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Beth Drummond, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, David Petranick, John Reuter, Sarah Smith

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Kim Nikles

Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Kristin Galloway, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen Keeley, Kara Kooken, Kris Kost, Beth Parker, Kim Robertson,
Margaret White, David Williams, Ben Yarborough

Compositors: Doug Kim, Lynda Korfmann, Ann Roddey, David Soud, Sara Strachan, Laure Van Dierdonck

A CHRISTMAS BREAK?

NAH, YOU DAVIDSON STUDENTS HAVE BEEN NAUGHTY

Letters

To the Editor:

In the Dec. 12 issue of The Davidsonian you have a public service advertisement for “Depository Libraries.” Thanks for advertising
the E.H. Little Library!

Since 1983 our library has been a depository for publications of the U.S. Government. The collection has over 80,000 hardback
items and over 100,000 items on microfiche. Periodicals, serials, census reports, Congressional Record, Supreme Court Reports, etc. And if we
do not have it, we can borrow it for you quickly from the regional depository. Mrs. Cindy Pendergraft is in
charge of the documents collection. She or any of the librarians will be glad to assist the Davidson Family in
the use of this rich resource in the Davidson College Library.

Leland Park

To the Editor:

We want to thank everyone who participated in this year’s Phonathon. Approximately 350 students made 3688 calls over seven evenings.
Our combined efforts raised $117,887 for Davidson's Living Endowment. Congratulations to everybody for this tremendous success. SAE deserves special recognition
since its members had the highest total of all the groups. In one evening they raised over $26,000. The Phonathon
Committee would especially like to thank the following night chairmen and committee members for their efforts:

Dave White
Seth Gartner
Allison Wills
Steve Hughes
Tony Griffin
Don Collins
Peter Wright
Cameron Chalmers
Joe Langley
Ted Davis
Rachel Henning
Scott Saye
J.P. McBryde
Ralph Steding
Buddy Martin
Richard Busby
Jane Royal
Polly Blomquist

Sincerely,
Dave Handy
Christi Hayes
Mark Sandy

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere to
these four guidelines:

1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.

2) We require that letters be neatly typed.

3) We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.

4) We reserve the right not to print letters that a) function as advertisements; b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or
inside jokes; c) represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed on the same topic.
