Friday, November 1, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson
By JANE AURELL

Internationally—

Superpowers — In separate speeches at the UN celebration in New York last Thursday, President Reagan and Soviet Foreign Minister
Shevardnadze emphasized different priorities for this month’s summit meeting in Geneva. Reagan stressed the settlement of regional conflicts involving the
Soviet Union in Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Nicaragua, Cambodia, and Angola, while Shevardnadze emphasized arms control. Secretary of State Shultz will go
to Moscow to “work out major differences” before the summit meeting. President Reagan is scheduled to be interviewed by members
of the Soviet print media on Thursday.

South Africa — In an effort to quell violence in the Cape Town area, police began enforcing state-of-emergency powers; 102
anti-apartheid groups have been banned from meeting and all children have been ordered to be either at school or at
home during school hours. Twenty-three white and four black women were arrested for protesting the presence of the army in
the black township of Soweto. A prominent Zulu official was murdered by blacks as a consequence of continued intra-black political
conflict. The Rev. Beyers Naude asked U.S. banks to make all future loans to South Africa contingent upon Pretoria’s lessening
of punitive actions against apartheid opponents. In an endorsement of an anti-apartheid ad run in a South African newspaper by
91 South African businessmen on September 29, 52 U.S. businessmen ran a similar ad reading “Today, we add our voice
to theirs.”

In Mideast news, the U.S. announced that it will make arms sales to Jordan contingent upon Jordan’s agreement to begin
peace talks with Israel; Jordan accused the U.S. of blackmail. Jordan’s King Hussein and PLO leader Yasir Arafat met in
Jordan to discuss their strained relationship; Arafat said that he will accept “nothing less” than a direct role in any
Mideast peace talks. Meanwhile, the Israeli Parliament voted 68-10 in support of Prime Minister Peres’ peace overture to Jordan made
last week in a speech before the U.N. In Lebanon, three of the four Soviet Embassy officials kidnapped over a
month ago were freed by their captors; the kidnappers killed one of the Soviets three days after the kidnapping.

Elsewhere in the world — In El Salvador, after a complex prisoner exchange between the government and leftist rebels, the
daughter of President Duarte was released after 44 days of captivity. As a result of last week’s U.N. celebration, U.S.
special envoy Shlauderman and Nicaraguan Foreign Minister Tunnerman met in Washington to discuss the tension between the two countries; no
progress was reported. Honduras intercepted 14 tons of non-lethal U.S. aid bound for rebels fighting Sandinistas in Nicaragua. In Argentina,
a limited 60-day state of siege was proclaimed by President Raul Alfonsin in an effort to stop a wave of
threats coming from right-wing terrorists. Indian Prime Minister Gandhi and Pakistani President Zia agreed to begin talks to reduce the
tension between their hostile countries. Gandhi met with Soviet leader Gorbachev in Moscow to discuss the Kremlin’s arms proposal. China
denied a U.S. allegation that it violated a July U.S.-China non-proliferation agreement and said that its nuclear deals with Pakistan
were for “peaceful purposes only.” France conducted a nuclear test in the South Pacific. Secretary of State Shultz and Canadian
Foreign Secretary Clark met in Alberta and agreed to begin free-trade talks early next year. Fifty-eight major international commercial banks
gave their endorsement, but not their full commitment, to a U.S. plan to help end the international debt crisis by
increasing loans to Third World debtor nations. Yelena Bonner, the wife of Soviet dissident Andrei Sakharov, will be allowed to
leave the U.S.S.R. to seek medical treatment. Finally, nine impressionist paintings, valued at 12.5 million dollars, were stolen from a
Paris museum; among the stolen works was “Impression Sunrise,” the painting by Claude Monet that inspired the name of the
movement.

Domestically — On the eve of his trial, John Walker pleaded guilty to spying for the Soviet Union and will
receive a life sentence; his son will receive a 25-year sentence for his involvement in the family spying. The United
Auto Workers and Chrysler Corp. ratified a new labor contract thereby ending the 12-day strike by 70,000 Chrysler employees. After
living eleven days on the new Penn State artificial heart, Anthony Mandia got a human heart on Monday. Carrying an
international crew of five Americans, two West Germans, and a Dutchman, the space shuttle Challenger left on Wednesday for a
7-day research mission. Meanwhile, NASA is looking for a journalist to ride aboard a shuttle mission at the end of
1986; they want someone who can communicate to the world the awesome beauty of the experience.In animal news — Scientists
in California now believe that the erratic behavior of Humphrey, the 40-ton whale who has been “lost” in the Sacramento
River for the past three weeks, may be due to the fact that he is a she, who is pregnant.
Officials at the Washington Zoo report that Ling Ling, the giant panda given to the U.S. by China, may also
be expecting. Finally, after a tremendous comeback, the Kansas City Royals won an 11-0 victory over the St. Louis Cardinals
to win the World Series, four games to three.

Thought for the week — “No color, no religion, no nationality should come between us — we are all children
of God.” Mother Theresa at last week's UN.

User Services Building offers better computer facilities
By KEITH FINCH

Recently, the Computer Services Center opened a new facility on Main Street as part of its continuing effort to increase
computer availability to students, faculty, and staff.

“Most people on campus have a reason to use computers,” Computer Services Director John Casey said. He said the new
User Services Building should do a great deal to help people realize how much a computer could help them.

The User Services Building contains ten new terminals for use with the central PR1ME minicomputer system, a new draft-quality printer,
and a new THESIS printer. The facility also supports microcomputer users with a number of personal computer stations and a
software library.

“We designed the building with users, particularly new users, in mind, and we want them to come take advantage of
it,” Casey said.

The new center has many features designed to accommodate computer instruction: there is a conference room with a large viewing
monitor and a terminal, a large board that classes can use for instruction, and free informational literature on shelves in
each room. It’s also very easy for a new user to get acquainted with the systems. “Our students do primarily
text processing,” Casey pointed out, “so we have a number of new approaches to people. Somebody will sit down with
you for fifteen to twenty minutes to get you started using the system, and then you’re on your own —
unless you have a problem. You're not on the spot, and you're not under any pressure.”

He also pointed out that student assistants are almost always on duty to help those who are having difficulties.

There are now close to 45 terminals available for the use of students on campus, and more than a hundred
students and professors have purchased personal computers as part of the campus-wide microcomputer project. Casey said the Computer Services Center
is offering a full schedule of workshops this year.

New personnel with Computer Services include assistant director for academic computing John Savarese and departmental assistant for the Self-Study Beth
Covington. In addition, staff member John Robbins has taken a position as a full-time academic programmer, writing and translating programs
for use in the Davidson curriculum.

The Center also acquired new equipment over the summer, including extra memory and disk space for the academic PR1ME and
additional communication lines. Many people with their own microcomputers, such as Apple IIs or Macintoshes, are now able to use
the PR1ME in their rooms by phoning in and computing over the phone lines.

“We've only scratched the surface of what we could do in the area of data handling,” Casey said. “How do
you draw a conclusion from a big mess of data? That sort of thing could be very important to the
liberal arts,” he added.

Unlike some institutions which emphasize central computing over individual computing, Davidson will continue to offer students an equal opportunity to
use both sorts of machines, Casey said. Since microcomputers are so much better at word processing, the most important academic
use of computers at Davidson, it would be best to emphasize the use of microcomputers as well as central computing.

Casey pointed out that any machine as large as the PR1ME with many people using it will be too slow
too often — people will type without seeing anything appear on the screen, and then the cursor will suddenly jump
forward. With microcomputers, this sort of quirk is not a problem.

The PR1ME, however, is still used for paper-writing by many students who have already learned how to use it, and
it will continue to serve that purpose for some time to come. Ultimately, however, Casey sees its role as that
of a workhorse for programming, analysis of data, administration, library organization, and organized drill (such as the French language drill
programs that some classes are already using).
