Friday, September 20, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Four New Profs Show Varied Backgrounds, Interests
By ANDY BALL, KEITH FINCH, DAVID WILLIAMS

Undergoing a more subtly-publicized orientation than the freshmen, 17 new professors and visiting lecturers have begun work at Davidson this fall. They represent a diverse group of interests and experiences.

Jack Perry
Former U.S. Ambassador to Bulgaria Jack Perry recently joined the Davidson Community as Director of the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies and as Professor of Political Science. Perry’s chief responsibility is directing the Dean Rusk Program. One of its primary goals is to give each student a chance to become more internationally aware in at least one area. “The program,” said Perry, “is not a ‘major,’ but instead is here to enhance the international dimension of a Davidson education.” The program has already sponsored a discussion on South African problems, led by former missionaries to South Africa. This Monday, the Program will sponsor a speech led by Peter Bridges, U.S. Ambassador to Somalia, on U.S. policy toward South Africa.

In his role as political science professor, Perry will teach a Winter-term seminar on Soviet and East European politics. Perry grew up in Atlanta, Georgia. He attended Mercer University from 1947-1951, where he received his AB degree, and Columbia University, where he received his MA in 1958 and his PhD in 1972. He was also awarded an honorary LLD from Mercer University in 1971. From 1954-1959 he served as a reporter for the Associated Press and the Macon Telegraph. From 1959-1983, Perry was employed in the U.S. Foreign Service, where he served in a number of distinctive positions. He spent time on the staff of four European embassies, was Special Assistant to the Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality from 1972-74, was Deputy Chief of Mission in U.S. Embassies in Prague and Stockholm from 1974-78, served as Deputy Executive Secretary to the State Department from 1978-79, and as U.S. Ambassador to Bulgaria from 1979-81. Upon retiring from the Foreign Service in 1983, Perry served as John C. West Professor of Government and International Studies at the Citadel in Charleston, S.C.

Perry is married to the former Elizabeth Smith. He has one son, James, and three daughters, Leslie, Jennifer, and Laura. His hobbies include jogging, playing tennis, and reading and writing poetry.

Leslie Hill-Davidson
Professor Leslie Hill-Davidson begins her first year at Davidson as a lecturer in politics, emphasizing Afro-American culture and studies concerning women. She received her BA from Barnard College of Columbia University, a Master’s degree from Atlanta University and is currently completing work for her PhD from Emory University. Hill-Davidson, who is married and has one step-daughter, views her role at Davidson not only as an instructor but also as a support for minority students. She hopes to achieve this support by providing services which promote multi-cultural education. Her interests include jazz, third-world literature, and multi-ethnic cooking.

Professor Ecoff
Ecoff is a visiting assistant professor of chemistry here for the 1985-86 school year. He completed undergraduate work at the University of Missouri-Rolla, received his master’s degree from San Diego State University and his doctorate in chemistry from the University of Northern Colorado.Currently teaches Chemistry 21 (The Science of Chemistry) which includes lectures and lab work in the Martin Chemistry Building. Ecoff has a variety of interests including chess, backpacking, and playing piano.

Christopher Bell has joined the economics department this year. Bell teaches a section of Economics 101, ‘Introduction to Political Economy,’ and Economics 123, ‘Industrial Organization.’ Although Bell and his wife Esther Robbins (who is earning her MA from Temple University) found it somewhat difficult to move to the Southeast after living in the West most of their lives, they enjoy the friendliness and concern they find at Davidson. Professor Bell came to Davidson largely because of its unique setting and expresses enthusiasm at the idea of getting involved in the community life here. “One of my classes has already challenged one of Susan Keefe’s classes to a softball game,” he said.

Originally from Albany, California, he spent two and a half years at Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington before transferring to the University of California at Berkeley to complete his undergraduate degree in economics and political science. After working as a research analyst at Stanford Research Center in Palo Alto, he entered graduate school at the University of Pennsylvania. He earned his MA from Penn in 1982, and he expects to receive his PhD during the course of this term or the next. He is particularly interested in the organization of economic activity, and he hopes to engage in further study of questions relating to the internal organization of firms, the duties of different levels of government, and diversification in particular industries.

Bell’s personal interests are many and varied, including backpacking, fishing, rock and mountain climbing, skiing, rafting, and indeed “... practically everything you can do outdoors.” He also enjoys softball and woodworking and hopes to join a soccer club at Davidson soon.

November 9th - SATURDAY DUOS
September 20th - FRIDAY Stark Raven 900 Room
September 27th - FRIDAY The Right Profile 900 Room
September 28th - SATURDAY The Accelerators 900 Room
October 12th - SATURDAY Speidel, Goodrich, & Lille
October 17th - THURSDAY Midnight Oil Love Auditorium
October 25th - FRIDAY Tem Tem 900 Room
February 7th - FRIDAY The Preservation Hall Jazz Ensemble Love Auditorium
February 10th - MONDAY Edward Jackman 900 Room
February 14th & 15th - FRIDAY & SATURDAY Barbara Bailey Hutchison 900 Room
March 21st & 22nd - FRIDAY & SATURDAY Hot Shandy 900 Room

Shalom Christian Book Store
Now you know — we have 1500 different Christian titles in stock — But did you know we have film and film developing? Compare our prices:
Color Film Developing:
Contour Prints
12 exp. $2.59
15 exp. (disc) $3.14
24 exp. $5.59
36 exp. $8.48
Glossy Prints
12 exp. $3.28
24 exp. $4.17
36 exp. $6.42

Our film prices are great too!
Hours: Tues.-Fri. 9:30-5:30; Sat. 9:30-5 p.m.

A GREAT year of professional entertainment is ahead! Watch for information and details. Make plans to attend! Keep a schedule and look for additional bands and performers.

Cathy’s Video
Best Prices, Best Selection, Best Location
NO MEMBERSHIP FEES
VCR RENTAL MACHINES AVAILABLE
Over 1550 movies in stock
$2.50 for one day
$4.00 for 4 days
Western Union Agent
RENT 2 TAPES GET ONE FREE
Denver Cornelius
Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday
BOTH LOCATIONS
892-3165
483-5586
M-Th 10-8
Fri & Sat 10-9
Sun 1-6