+ Friday, February 15, 1985 / The Davidsonian 11

By STEVE BYERS

To paraphrase an ex-president, you won’t have Steve Byers to kick around anymore. With this column, I end my 12-month reign (some might say “sentence”) as The Davidsonian’s illustrious, elusive, and invariably esoteric sports editor. (And good thing, too — I’m beginning to sound like Ann Meador!)

I have so many memories from these past 12 months that I have neither the space nor the inclination to recount them all here. But I can’t leave without sharing a few of the most vivid images that remain in my mind:

Scott Huie and I following the leaders around Augusta National on Sunday, the final day of the 1984 Masters. You couldn’t see much of anything on the back nine, but just being there was a thrill...

Morgan Ward and I standing on our tiptoes in the SRO section of Centre Court at Wimbledon. For a surprisingly cheap price, we were able to see Jimmy Connors battle Paul Annacone in men’s quarterfinal play. We had a good view of the action, but that was almost irrelevant — here we were watching Connors play on Wimbledon’s Centre Court! I almost broke down and had some strawberries and cream, but the price allowed cooler heads to prevail...

A few weeks later, Dickson McLean, Stephen Bernhardt, Ed Henderson, and I were in St. Andrews, Scotland, following Jack Nicklaus around the rough and weather-beaten “Old Course” for the third round of the ’84 British Open. By the end of the day, I was so sure that Tom Watson would win the tournament that I bet Ed, who naturally chose eventual winner Ballesteros, a beer on the outcome. If you see him, don’t remind him...

Back at Davidson, I remember sitting in the press box during football games, being kept entertained only by the witticisms and wisecracks of Dr. Kazee and Coach Slagle...

Another poignant memory is the scene inside the Wildcat dressing room after the Wofford victory, where there were few dry eyes but a lot of hugs, handshakes, and high-fives.

Other images of the last few months: the feeling of euphoria and disbelief I had at halftime of the Davidson-Wake Forest basketball game in Charlotte, when the Cats led by 17 after dominating the first half. We won’t discuss the next 20 minutes...

Traveling to Columbia with Jim Sowerby to watch the Cats, spurred on by a raucous SAE contingent, absolutely dismantle the Gamecocks, 77-61...

Hunter Gourley wrote about skiing in last week’s issue, but I’m here to tell you it ain’t all fun and games on the slopes. Especially if, like myself, you can’t tell the difference between a mogul and a goggle. The night we ventured to Ski Hawk’s Nest — how shall I phrase it? — it was snowing rather hard, the wind was blowing with some velocity, and the temperature was on the nippy side. We even had a wreck on the way back, and to top it off, I saw nary a “ski bunny” nor tasted nary a “hot cocoa”...

Then there was the...Time I went bowling (only to procure a P.E. credit, I assure you, lest you think I perform this plebeian activity regularly). As luck — and let me emphasize the word “luck” — would have it, I finished with a 158 average over three games and actually rolled a 195 in the last one. Note: contrary to popular belief, Statesville is not the steak house and bowling capital of the world...

Well, before I close with some predictions, I need to thank some people who have made my job a little easier: tennis Coach Jeff Frank, soccer Coach Charlie Slagle, ex-football Coach Ed Farrell (a gracious man despite his coaching record), Sports Information Director Emil Parker (the power behind the throne, I think, in the Athletic dept.), Gerry Born, Jim McConkey, Steve Soud and many, many others. The sports staff deserves recognition as well, for they have had to put up with my constant nagging, editing and criticizing more than anyone. My thanks to Huie, Gourley, D.D. Wright, and Mike Adams. And, oh yeah, Andy Barron, who’s going to realize just how much fun this position is in a few weeks. Think of Andy in your prayers.

All right, let’s go out with a bang. Georgetown will win the NCAA Championship, Duke the ACC Tournament and UT-C the Southern Conference Tournament. Derek Rucker will be first team All-Southern Conference and will win Freshman of the Year honors in the league. The Citadel’s Regan Truesdale will repeat as MVP, followed closely by Gerald Wilkins. By this time next year Wilkins and N.C. State freshman Chris Washburn, who apparently doesn’t test well, will be sharing a prison cell somewhere. Dave Short will capitalize on his overnight fame to write a bestseller 101 Uses for a Megaphone. Marshall's fans will challenge UT-C’s fans to a cheer-off to decide, once and for all, whose fans are the most obnoxious and least pleasing to the eye. ABC will telecast this event, but no one will watch.

Furman Demolished, 42-9
By MIKE ADAMS

Davidson’s wrestling team stomped Furman, 42-9, on Wednesday. “This was a big win for us; we really needed it,” said senior captain Mike Keeley. The Cats won all but two of the ten matches against the Paladins. Freshman Steve Lau started off the match with a loss by a pin. Sophomore Mark Wennberg opened the scoring for the Wildcats, also with a pin. Junior Taylor Simpson won by a forfeit. Sophomore J.T. Lay registered a 5-2 decision over Furman’s best wrestler in one of his finest performances of the year. Senior Brad Essman scored a pin and Keeley followed him with a 15-2 decision. Keeley described his performance as “sloppy, but it’s a win.” Scovall lost only the second match for the Wildcats, 10-4, but the Cats bounced back with pins from freshmen Tim Heinze and Doug Saintsing. Saintsing said, “Pins are few and far between in this league, and that makes it great when you get one.” Junior Andy Macary closed out the scoring for the Cats with an 11-2 decision at heavyweight.

Learn About Student Opportunities at WDAV
Monday, Feb. 18 at 7 p.m.
Conference Room
College Union

Announcing
Public Relations
Recording and Production
Music Background Helpful
Work-study Welcome