8 Friday, January 18, 1985 / The Davidsonian — Music

By STEVE MANK

Almost all music is a barracuda gliding swiftly through the water. Occasionally it stops to negotiate the most exact path,
but it never loses sight of its goal. The music of XTC is a frog that swims erratically. Every now
and then it gets out of the water, hops on a lily pad, maybe eats a fly, maybe hops along
the pads, maybe croaks, or maybe even turns around.

It’s not that anyone’s really heard of XTC. The band barely managed to squeak into the top 10 in England!
It hasn’t even broken the American top 100. It released three albums; then disappeared. Two compilations popped up but the
band was hardly appreciated well enough the first time around to warrant a compilation. Members left. Lead singer Andy Partridge
entered an institution. America was happier not even thinking about XTC (ecstasy, get it?).

But something most peculiar was happening. Though the group was critically branded as quirky, the plaudits were beginning to pile
up. The band wasn’t entering any halls of fame quickly, but as Partridge presumably underwent psychotherapy, folks on the outside
began to appreciate him just the way he was.

In the nick of time, Partridge dashed out of the “home” (his first official statement was, “I’m not crazy anymore”),
assembled the vestiges of the former combo (sans drummer, who was replaced by a machine), and created a truly great
LP. The double-jointed guitar that opens The Big Express is poor preparation for the even weirder stuff to come. The
instruments on “Wake Up” slowly destroy any preconception you might have of the value of a good, old-fashioned four-four beat.
The music is positively lopsided. Far in the background, some Mormon Tabernacle Choir gone berserk sings “wake up” over and
over like a juggernaut. And Partridge, sounding like his hospital gig didn’t do him a bit of good, fairly explodes,
“Who cares you might be dead,/ Who cares you stayed in bed,/ Who cares you wrote the note,/ Who cares
you might have spoke, WAKE UP!”

Even if the asylum did cure his manic psychopathy (contrary to the implications of the first song), a tad of
schizophrenia must remain. As the choir sings its last “wake up,” Partridge begins bellowing the opening strains of “All You
Pretty Girls,” a slightly updated hornpipe, of sorts. As Partridge escorts you through the record, you get the feeling not
that he’s going from song to song, but rather from environment to environment. Each track, though entirely different, shares a
quality of wholeness. Every snare top, every echo, every flat note is important. “I Remember the Sun” must be an
avant-garde jazz parody — or is it avant-garde jazz? Partridge, perhaps more than any other songwriter, knows what it is
like to be entirely absorbed in another world, and he knows how to absorb others into another world.

“The Everyday Story of Smalltown” takes up where “Penny Lane” and “Pleasant Valley Sunday” left off. But unlike the Beatles
or the Monkees, XTC replaces the 60’s naive optimism with post-punk sensibilities. Smalltown does not boast “blue, suburban skies,” rather
the township is “racing the hooter that’ll signal life’s up.” Sounds like Partridge also has a bit of a death
fixation to work out. But if there is any instability still lingering, Partridge certainly can work his way around it
well enough. He’s a little flat, a little off-key, and his grammar is barely comprehensible, but...In some disarmingly sincere sort
of way, “You're the Wish You are I Had” is the most beautiful song of the last few years. Barry
Manilow can roll like water off a duck’s back, but Partridge has found the most perfect way to express love.
It is possible that Andy Partridge is not crazy anymore — anything’s possible. If so, he’s still retained enough of
his early skittishness. Truth be known, The Big Express is not going to make it into the charts. Despite all
the excellent stuff that goes into XTC’s sound, the band is still too weird to be popular. But that’s probably
better. For as long as the barracuda swims in front of the frog, the frog can’t be eaten. Besides, frogs
are smarter anyway.

With a performance last night, the International committee added a new dimension with Greek dancing.

U.S. Department of Transportation Ad:
DRINKING AND DRIVING CAN KILL A FRIENDSHIP

OVERSEAS EMPLOYMENT
WORLD-WIDE OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEN AND WOMEN!
JAPAN - EUROPE - AFRICA - AUSTRALIA - THE SOUTH PACIFIC - SOUTH AMERICA - THE FAR EAST.
EXCELLENT BENEFITS. HIGHER SALARIES AND WAGES! FREE TRANSPORTATION! GENEROUS VACATIONS!

More than 300,000 Americans — not including members of the armed services — are now living overseas. These people are
engaged in nearly every possible activity... construction, engineering, sales, transportation, secretarial work, accounting, manufacturing, oil refining, teaching, nursing, government, etc.
And many are earning $2,000 to $5,000 per month... or more!

To allow you the opportunity to apply for overseas employment, we have researched and compiled a new and exciting directory
on overseas employment. Here is just a sample of what our International Employment Directory covers:

1. Our International Employment Directory lists dozens of cruise ship companies, both on the east and west coast. You will
be told what type of positions the cruise ship companies hire, such as deck hands, restaurant help, cooks, bartenders, just
to name a few. You will also receive several Employment Application Forms that you may send directly to the companies
you would like to work for.

2. Firms and organizations employing all types of personnel in Australia, Japan, Africa, The South Pacific, The Far East, South
America... nearly every part of the free world!

3. Companies and Government agencies employing personnel in nearly every occupation, from the unskilled laborer to the college-trained professional man
or woman.

4. Firms and organizations engaged in foreign construction projects, manufacturing, mining, oil refining, engineering, sales, services, teaching, etc.

5. How and where to apply for overseas Government jobs.

6. Information about summer jobs.

7. You will receive our Employment Opportunity Digest... jam-packed with information about current job opportunities. Special sections feature news of
overseas construction projects, executive positions, and teaching opportunities.

90 Day Money Back Guarantee
Our International Employment Directory is sent to you with this guarantee. If for any reason you do not obtain overseas
employment or you are not satisfied with the job offers... simply return our Directory within 90 days and we'll refund
your money promptly... no questions asked.

131 Elma Dr. Dept. T21
Centralia, WA 98531

ORDER FORM
International Employment Directory

Please send me a copy of your International Employment Directory. I understand that I may use this information for 90
days and if I am not satisfied with the results, I may return your Directory for an immediate refund. On
that basis I’m enclosing $20.00 cash.... check.... or money order.... for your

NAME (please print)
ADDRESS
APT #
CITY
STATE
ZIP

International Employment Directory 1984
