Sports | Wildcats even record, prepare for title match
By ANDY BARRON

Davidson’s soccer team let their perfect conference record slip away at Marshall last Friday, losing 1-0, but bounced back with a 5-0 road win over VMI Sunday and a 1-0 win against Pfeiffer on Wednesday. Their efforts of the last week leave Davidson 8-8-2 on the season and 4-1 in the Southern Conference.

Games at Marshall have always been tough for the Wildcats due to both the hard effort always given by the Thundering Herd and the foreign surface of artificial turf that Marshall plays on. Both teams played hard and had several chances to score, but regulation time ended in a 0-0 tie. The game breaker came in overtime when the Southern Conference’s leading scorer Andy Zulauf lobbed a weak shot that caught junior goalie Jim Kelly charging out of the goal mouth. Davidson had several good opportunities to score after Zulauf’s goal, but was unsuccessful and the game went to Marshall 1-0.

“We had a good game and some chances to score, but just weren't able to put the ball in the net,” coach Charlie Slagle said. “It’s difficult to adjust to playing on artificial turf very quickly, and the surface definitely gave us some problems, but Marshall played hard and deserved to win the game.”

The Wildcats didn’t have any trouble disposing of VMI on Sunday. Powered by five assists from junior Brian Shockley, Davidson scored three first-half goals and coasted to a 5-0 win. Senior Sean Austin and sophomores Craig Mattison and Joe Moss scored in the first half, and junior Steve Stith and freshman Curtis Ott added goals in the second half. Sophomore Andy Clarke contributed to the effort with two assists.

Wednesday’s match with Pfeiffer saw a team stall on Davidson in the same way the Wildcats dueled such powers as Duke and North Carolina State. Flattery aside, Davidson’s play in the first half mirrored the weather, sloppy and unexciting. In the second half, Davidson played much better and took control of the game. The game's lone goal came three minutes into the half on a corner kick by Shockley. Senior Tony Cabrales back-heeled Shockley’s corner to Clarke, who stuck the ball into the net. The Wildcats coordinated their attack and put pressure on Pfeiffer throughout the rest of the game. Kelly recorded his sixth shutout of the season and Davidson won 1-0.

“They showed a lot of respect for our offense and played a smart game,” Slagle said. “In the second half we played very well. We were anticipating better, anticipating and hustling. The weather probably hurt us more than it hurt them.”

Field hockey ends season on winning note
By EDWIN PAGE

The Davidson Women’s field hockey team finished its season with its most successful week of the year. In eight games, the Cats played .500 hockey, going 3-3-2 due largely to the efforts of junior sweeper Heather McKee who racked up five goals and sophomore forward Margie Oliver who had four.

Last weekend, Davidson hosted the 16th annual Deep South Field Hockey Tournament featuring seven college and six club teams from around North Carolina. The weekend started inauspiciously when after playing Wake Forest even for the first half, the Cats slipped and let Wake pull away for a 3-0 win. But Friday afternoon they turned things around by dominating Salem College for a 3-1 win on goals by Oliver, freshman Margo Mims, and sophomore Janet Bitter. In winning, Davidson dominated in almost all aspects of the game, keeping the ball in front of the Salem net and away from junior goalie Nana Lay.

Saturday the Cats dropped two games, 4-1 to Catawba and 3-0 to a fine Charlotte club team, but rebounded on Sunday, overcoming several injuries to go 1-1. The Cats took the first game against UNC club 2-0. Saturday afternoon, the Cats jumped out to a 2-0 lead on two more goals by McKee, but had to settle for a 2-2 tie in a shortened game against the Duke club. Deep South culminated with the selection of four Deep South college teams, and Davidson placed two players on the rosters.them, but it wasn't that big a deal. We need to keep the hustling and anticipation up in our game this Saturday with App. State.” This Saturday the soccer team will meet Appalachian State for the Northern Division title of the Southern Conference. The winner of the game will meet Furman the following Saturday for the conference title. In the case of a tie, Davidson will be the division champion. The game should be, as Slagle said, “exciting to watch since both teams will be playing all out.” The game will be a “do or die” affair for Davidson since a loss will end the season for the Wildcats.

Lay, in her first season as a goalie, was named to Deep South three and McKee was named the sweeper for Deep South one. (Senior co-captain Suzy Klineman was denied a chance at selection when she went down Saturday in the club game with a badly bruised foot.) On Tuesday, the Cats faced Salem again and played dead even for 70 minutes. McKee again put in two goals as regulation play ended at 2-2. But the Cats took charge early and decisively in OT as Margie Oliver twice pounced on rebounds and deposited them in the cage to give the Cats a 4-2 victory. Thursday against High Point the weather was the dominant factor, turning the field into a marsh. Oliver again scored as the Cats held on for a 1-1 tie against a team that had beaten them 6-1 earlier in the year. “I thought we played well down the stretch,” Daley said. “We played better and better as the season went along. I'm already looking forward to next year.”

Smith, Jones lead Cats in loss to James Madison

By MIKE ADAMS

The Davidson football team fell to 0-8 as James Madison scored a touchdown in each quarter to hand the Wildcats a 28-0 loss on Saturday. The Cats were again plagued by a lack of offensive firepower. Davidson has scored only five touchdowns all season and it has been three weeks since the last score. All told, the Cats have been shut out five times this year.

James Madison outplayed Davidson in every offensive category. They had 22 first downs to the Cats’ six. James Madison outgained Davidson with 473 total yards to 114 total yards for the Wildcats. Sophomore Charlie Winborne started and played the whole game at quarterback. He completed only 12 passes in 29 attempts for 59 yards. He also threw one interception at the end of the game. His longest pass of the day went to junior Marcus Allen for nine yards. Allen, usually a defensive player, played most of the game both ways as a defensive end and a tight end. Winborne had the punting chores as well, where he had 11 kicks for a 38-yard average.

The Cats had a balanced rushing and passing attack. They gained only 57 yards on the ground, most of which came on a 43-yard carry by junior fullback Mike Jones, who led the Cats with six carries for 59 yards. His 43-yard run is the longest run by a Davidson back this year. Jones also returned one kickoff for 19 yards.

Defensively, the Cats were unable to equal their great performance of the previous week against Pennsylvania. They gave up 335 yards rushing, 138 yards passing, and 28 points to a James Madison team that had won only two games prior to their match with Davidson. Senior defensive back Tony Smith led the Cats’ defense. He had 19 tackles in the game, the best individual total for Davidson this season. Nine of Smith's tackles were unassisted. Senior tackle Andy McCary had another good game for the defensive line with eight tackles. He also recorded the Cats’ only quarterback sack of the game. Allen — on defense this time — had a tackle for an eight-yard loss and recovered a fumble.

Davidson had some good individual performances in the game — Jones’ long run and Smith's phenomenal tackle total, but the bottom line is that they again failed to produce any consistent offensive attack and were unable to contain the opponent's running game. The Cats travel to Spartanburg, SC, on Saturday to face the Wofford Terriers. Wofford has a 2-5 record and has lost its last four straight. Perhaps this is the game that can end Davidson's losing streak.