Sports

Slow first half and turnovers doom Cats

By MIKE ADAMS

The Davidson football team fell behind The Citadel by an insurmountable 24-0 first half lead on the way to losing their sixth straight game 31-0 on Saturday. The Wildcats' season-long first half woes continued. They have not scored in the first two quarters since the September 14 game against Gardner-Webb. In the four games since, Davidson has spotted Bucknell a 27-0 first half lead, Newberry a 24-0 lead, Furman a 35-0 lead, and finally the 24-0 lead to Citadel.

The Cats were not dominated by The Citadel as they have been in past games with Newberry and Furman. The Citadel had only three more first downs and only 115 more yards in total offense. The big difference was in turnovers. Davidson gave up the ball five times, four on interceptions, while The Citadel only lost it once.

Junior Steve Bradley got the start at quarterback and had what was probably his worst game of the year. He completed only six of 15 attempts for 32 yards while having two of his passes picked off. Sophomore Charlie Winborne turned in a slightly better performance, playing only in the second half. He completed nine passes in 20 attempts for 74 yards, but he also threw two interceptions.

There was slight improvement in the running game. Led by junior Mike Jones, the Cats gained 65 yards on the ground. Jones had 39 yards on nine carries — the best game of any Wildcat back this season. Freshman Brian Overcash had 35 yards on nine carries. Overcash is turning into a solid performer. Besides his rushing yardage, he caught seven passes for 46 yards to lead the team in that department. He also ran back a kickoff for 15 yards.

Defensively, Davidson did not play well. They gave up 31 points to a team which came into the game with a 1-3-1 record. The Citadel had good field position throughout the first half and the Cats were unable to keep them out of the end zone. Defensive standouts for the Cats were sophomore noseguard Emanuel Burch, with two quarterback sacks, senior linebacker Micah Downing with 10 tackles, and freshman defensive back David Trontz with a team-leading total of 14 tackles including one for a four-yard gain.

On Saturday Davidson will host Pennsylvania for Homecoming. Pennsylvania, last year’s Ivy League Champ, comes in as an opponent with whom the Cats have a score to settle. Davidson led in the 1984 game with less than a minute left only to lose on a punt return for a touchdown.

Competition overwhelms field hockey team: 5-0, 3-1

By EDWIN PAGE

Here on Wednesday, Appalachian State, largely through the efforts of their outstanding player Lynn Coreno, posted a 3-0 lead at halftime and seemed to be in control. This time, however, Davidson came out of the intermission hot. For the next 15 minutes, the Cats played some of their best hockey. They attacked well and regained the momentum. During this stretch, sophomore Betsy Rothschild, making her first appearance at right wing, took a pass from sophomore Janet Bitter and scored to close the gap to 3-1. But the surge ended as quickly as it had come. The Cats’ momentum and intensity seemingly evaporated into nothingness and Appalachian exploded. The Mountaineers scored four goals in less than the time it takes for the average fan to go to the gym for a Coke. For all intents and purposes, the game was over.

One look at the records of the two teams that the Davidson women’s field hockey team played this past week would have been enough to give you an idea of the week’s results. Last Thursday, the Cats took on Radford, a team that beat Duke (enough said), and on Wednesday they played Appalachian State, who had beaten Radford. Unfortunately for the Cats, the final results were all too predictable.

Against Radford, the Cats were determined to come out and play their own game and not fall prey to the early intimidation that marked their loss to Duke. Although they spent the majority of the half in front of their own goal, Davidson, according to coach Patty Daley, “played as hard as we could play.” Davidson's young team played rock-solid defense and as the half closed, the score, to everyone’s surprise, remained 0-0. All thoughts of an upset were demolished quickly in the second half as Radford came out smoking. Radford controlled the game and before it was over they had pushed five into the Davidson cage for a 5-0 win.was over. This Saturday at 10 a.m., the Cats play an alumni game as part of the Homecoming festivities. On Monday, the Cats play Wake Forest and follow with a game on Tuesday against Catawba. Both games start at 4 p.m.

Fielders face off to gain control of the ball at Davidson. Soccer team duels tough competition, referees.

By ANDY BARRON

Once again, Davidson’s soccer team had some tough competition roll into town. That isn’t anything new. Both games, Sunday's match with Georgia State and Tuesday’s match with North Carolina State, were close, which isn’t necessarily new, but always a welcome sight. Davidson beat Georgia State 2-1, the first time Davidson has ever beaten the Panthers, but lost a frustrating game to the tenth-ranked Wolfpack, 1-0.

The major similarity between the two games, apart from one-goal margins of victory, came in the form of questionable officiating, definitely not something new in these parts. The Georgia State game started out as a well-played affair, but the referee's lack of control mired the match in confusion and turmoil. North Carolina State won Tuesday’s match on a penalty kick five minutes into the game. Penalty kicks are part of soccer, but the linesman awarded this one. Thus, for the second time in ten days, Davidson lost on a linesman-called penalty kick.

Against Georgia State, Davidson played a solid first half that saw the Wildcats take a 1-0 lead after sophomore David Rosselot stuck a loose ball inside the left post. The goal came on a corner kick, once again proving Davidson’s ability to score on set plays. Georgia State charged out of the blocks at the start of the second half. Davidson looked lethargic as junior goalie Jim Kelly came under siege. Kelly made several spectacular saves, but eventually Georgia State put a loose ball in to tie the game at one.

At this point, the game took a tailspin as the referee raced from linesman to linesman trying to get a bearing on the game. As the game got out of control, the injuries started to pile up. However, many injuries were ignored by the referee who was more concerned with distributing yellow cards and calling for a season’s worth of dropped balls. The big play by the referee came when he gave senior Sean Austin a red card for “foul and abusive language;” at least that’s what his linesman told him. Whether or not Mr. Austin’s vocabulary was as offensive as the refereeing has yet to be decided. Still, Austin had to sit the rest of the game out and Davidson had to play short one player for the rest of the match.

Things did not look good for the Wildcats. Instead of crumbling, however, Davidson dug deep and gave one of the season’s best efforts. Rallying under adversity, Davidson took the force out of Georgia State’s attack and began their own attack. The game breaker came on a beautiful pass from senior Tony Cabarales, playing midfield for a change, through two defenders to a wide-open junior Brian Shockley. Shockley easily beat the goalie and put the Wildcats on top for good, 2-1.

The refereeing in the North Carolina State game looked stunning in comparison to the Georgia State game. However, Austin had to sit the game out due to his red card from the game before, a haunting reminder of Sunday’s fiasco. Davidson played adequately against N.C. State, but missed Austin and the injured trio of senior Bill Coxhead, sophomore Andy Clarke, and freshman Tracy Hankins. The Cats looked timid on occasion and the better scoring opportunities came to the Wolfpack.

Though the confidence and aggressiveness that marked Davidson’s upset of Duke earlier this season was missing, Davidson by no means gave up against North Carolina State. In fact, the Wildcats had a couple of good chances early in the game. With a little luck, Davidson could have gotten a quick 1-0 lead and, though no one will ever know, repeated their upset of Duke.

Davidson needs to keep showing the tenacity they exhibited last week. On Saturday, Marshall comes to town for an important conference game. Then Davidson plays mighty South Carolina in Columbia on Wednesday. The Gamecocks are ranked fourth in the nation and will be the toughest team Davidson plays this year. Davidson hopes to face Marshall and South Carolina with everyone healthy and ready to play.