Friday, October 18, 1985  
THE DAVIDSONIAN  

Beyond Davidson  
By JANE AURELL  

Internationally — In the aftermath of the Achille Lauro hijacking, four U.S. F-14 jet fighters intercepted an Egyptian plane carrying the Palestinian hijackers and forced it to land at the NATO base in Sicily. Four of the hijackers are being held by Italy on charges of hijacking and murder, and a warrant is out for the arrest of four other Palestinians believed to be involved.

After a brief detainment, Muhammad Abbas, the Palestinian believed to be the mastermind of last week’s hijacking, was allowed to leave Italy for Yugoslavia; he has been eluding authorities ever since. The U.S. has a warrant for his arrest. Meanwhile, the body of Leon Klinghoffer (the American murdered in the hijacking) washed ashore on the Syrian coast; the body contained wounds in the head and back. The hijackers have repeatedly denied the killing, so this could be the key needed by Italy to start the prosecution proceedings. The U.S. said that indictments for the extradition of the hijackers could be issued if the Italian courts fail to prosecute them.

In the wake of the hijacking, Israel has offered a new Mideast peace initiative excluding the PLO and the USSR.

Other Middle Eastern news — In Lebanon, members of the Islamic Jihad have turned over to the U.S. photos of a body believed to be that of hostage William Buckley; they say that they will exchange the body for the release of 100 Palestinians jailed in Israel. Islamic extremists are threatening to execute three Soviet hostages and blow up the Soviet Embassy unless the USSR closes the embassy. In continued efforts to end the ten-year civil war in Lebanon, which has claimed over 100,000 lives, Syria has proposed a new peace initiative to the three major Lebanese militias; Syria reports the outlook to be favorable.

In South African Developments — Over the weekend, leaders from the African National Congress and from South Africa’s white opposition party met in Zambia; the two groups agreed on the urgent need to abolish apartheid and establish a “non-racial democratic society,” but the ANC said that it felt that the situation in South Africa was not amenable to peaceful resolution at this time. The ANC is urging South Africa’s 25 million blacks to take their battle against apartheid into white areas; the first white army fatality caused by blacks occurred in a white area shortly following this pronouncement.

Central America — In the biggest rebel attack in over a year, Salvadoran rebels fighting the government of President Duarte attacked a U.S.-built military training camp in El Salvador; the rebels reported that their aim was to kill or capture U.S. military advisors. As a consequence of the still unresolved kidnapping of his daughter, President Duarte has sent his three other children and four grandchildren to the U.S. for safekeeping. In Panama, an unidentified military leader disclosed a paper accusing the U.S. of backing a sedition plan to topple its government. In Nicaragua, blaming the U.S. government for instigating sabotage and political instability in the Sandinista regime, President Ortega has ordered the suspension of civil rights.

Elsewhere in the world — An earthquake measuring 6.2 on the Richter scale rocked Soviet Central Asia; the extent of the damage is unknown. Vietnam said that it will allow U.S. excavation teams to search for the remains of Americans still unaccounted for. In West Germany, the total number of spy-related arrests has risen to eleven. The USSR announced that Nikolai Talyzin (56) will replace the retiring Nikolai Baibakov (74) as the new state planning chief. Libyan leader Qaddafi and Soviet leader Gorbachev met in Moscow to discuss the Mideast, Africa, and the Iran-Iraq war. And finally, in Stockholm, Sweden, the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to the International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War. The group was founded five years ago by American and Soviet doctors and now claims a membership of 145,000 doctors and health professionals from 40 countries.

Domestically — Congress secretly approved an administration request for $250 million in further covert military aid to rebels fighting the Soviet-backed regime in Afghanistan; the aid will be funneled to the rebels through the CIA. Senator Paul Laxalt (R-Nev.) was sent to the Philippines with a message to President Marcos that his regime is in danger of being toppled by the New People’s Army, a communist insurgency movement. Vice President Bush is on a six-day visit to China to try to ease the strained relations caused by Americanarms sales to Taiwan and the congressional effort to impose import restrictions on Chinese textiles. A bipartisan Senate military panel is seeking to reform and reorganize the Pentagon; among the proposed changes are the abolition of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and an expansion of authority for the defense secretary and the joint operating commanders. Doctors removed another patch of skin cancer from President Reagan's nose. Yul Brynner (65), who played the king 4,625 times in The King and I, died last Thursday. Orson Welles (70), the talented author, actor, and producer, died the same day. Thought for the Week -- “Show me a person who's never made a mistake, and I'll show you somebody who's never achieved much.” -- Joan Collins

Administrators voice views on vandalism
By KEITH FINCH

Vandals have caused over $7,000 worth of damages to college and personal property since the beginning of the term. Davidson Police Chief Jackie Hughes is convinced that nearly all of the problem is due to alcohol abuse. He said much vandalism occurs at or near a party where alcohol is served, and that the few vandals apprehended are usually intoxicated. Hughes said there is a definite increase in vandalism over last year. Eleven lampposts on and near Patterson Court have been destroyed in the last five weeks. In other incidents, a branch was hurled through the window of Emanon house and a brick was thrown through the window of a student’s truck. Exit signs have been destroyed; light globes have been smashed; fire extinguishers have been discharged, and water fountains have been ripped from the wall.

“I don’t know what the cause is,” Dean of Students Will Terry said. He added, “It just doesn't make any sense. It’s sort of like burning down your own ghetto.” Hughes agreed, “I just can’t understand it.” Dean Terry agreed that “at least some of it is alcohol abuse,” and that people who normally would not commit vandalism while sober are often the same ones who do it while they are drunk. He said, “That’s no excuse.”

Dormitory Vandalism
Director of Student Housing Tom Jennings handles indoor vandalism. He said, “Mostly men are the ones who vandalize, and it's usually men who've been drinking.” “If a floor is more involved as a community, then there is less vandalism,” Jennings said. “Here people’s commitments are to fraternities or eating houses, and so there is more vandalism.” He said that floors which promote hall community are the least likely to experience vandalism. An example of such a hall, he said, is the second floor of Irwin dormitory, where the residents have hung posters and “made the public areas a better place to live.” Jennings said he expects to see much more vandalism in the coming winter months when students tend to feel “cooped up” inside.

Possible Solutions
Jennings has already taken many measures to prevent vandalism. So far this term damages to housing have amounted to less than $300. Among his new policies is the requirement that R.A.s report all damages to public places such as lounges and bathrooms at the beginning of the year. This information will make it possible to determine the extent of a group's damage to its dormitory. If no one admits to damaging something, “then a whole area will be charged,” Jennings said. Jennings has also instituted a Resident Advisor duty system giving students access to an R.A. at all times.

Terry believes it would be best for students to solve the problem by themselves. “We've got to take the Code of Responsibility seriously,” he said. “I take it seriously. That's why Davidson students have the freedom they have. Most of them don't realize the amount of freedom they have.” In a letter to The Davidsonian last week, Terry indicated that freedom could be curtailed if students do not restrain themselves. Among other options, Terry is considering requiring houses to hire security guards to watch parties, to register their parties with the college, or to police the dispensing of alcohol more carefully. Yet he hopes that students will solve the problem on their own. “Apathy and gutlessness are the only obstacles to a solution,” he said.

Shalom Christian Book Store
Now you know — we have 1,500 different Christian titles in stock — But did you know we have film and film developing? Compare our prices:
Color Film Developing:
- Contour Prints
  12 exp. $2.59
  15 exp. (disc) $3.14
  24 exp. $4.17
  36 exp. $6.42
- Glossy Prints
  12 exp. $3.28
  24 exp. $5.59
  36 exp. $8.48

Our film prices are great too!
Hours: Tues.-Fri. 9:30-5:30; Sat. 9:30-5 p.m.

SHOES
In The Traditional Campus Manner.
by Bass
Bostonian
Fore ‘n’ Aft
Quality and Fashion Apparel for Men and Women for 73 years
Only 6 miles north