Friday, February 1, 1985 / The Davidsonian

IMAC Teams Prepare For Post-Season Play

By ANDY BARRON

The last few weeks of IMAC play in men’s B-league basketball, women’s basketball, and street hockey have seen many close games. As B-league sorts the top teams from the rest, women’s basketball has had a new team surge to the top. With street hockey one week from the end of the season, the top teams are tuning themselves for the post-season tournament.

With two big victories in three days, Warner Hall’s Court Cases has become the top team in women’s basketball. On Sunday, Court Cases beat the Subterranean Devils, 43-13, as Becca Bates had 16 in the winning cause. Tuesday’s 18-17 win over the previously undefeated and number-one-ranked Old Ladies left Court Cases as the only undefeated team in women’s ball. Bates and Debbie Podolin each had eight for the winners while Kathy Gray had seven and Laura Beck six for the Ladies.

The big upset in women’s league was Cloud Nine’s 27-25 win over fifth-ranked Shrieks at Midnight. Janet Bitter led the girls from Fourth Rich with 15 while Shrieks was paced by Julie Kerr’s 13.

Men's B-league’s top two teams, Champagne Jam and the Ubbies, clashed for bragging rights in Division V and all of B-league. Champagne Jam led the whole way and managed to hold off a late-game rally to win 37-36. Champagne Jam was aided by balanced scoring from Jim Flaniken, Trey Jammes, Ken Neal, Rob Asinger, and John Hoffman while Ralph Steading had 13 for the Ubbies. Both teams will be highly ranked in the post-season tournament.

The third-ranked Third Legs extended their record to 4-0 by beating seventh-ranked Biff’s Yodeling Ogres 48-39 on Monday. John Hart's 18 and Tyler Stoner’s 12 paced the Legs while Biff’s was paced by Matt Newsom's 15. These two teams could get a rematch sometime in the tournament.

The sixth-ranked Collapsible Rims remain undefeated after nipping Slamming Seconds 29-28 on Tuesday. Pete Burr hit two clutch free throws to seal the win. Jim Kelly had 16 and Burr 10 to pace the Rims while Darryl Bego had 11 for the Slammers.

The fourth-ranked Hot Rocks are winning Division III after winning their last encounter against All-Around Team 56-30. David Etheridge had 16 and Robert Nesbit 12 as Hot Rocks went to 4-0.

Division IV is paced by the Mooresville Walkers. The Walkers, who are fifth-ranked, topped the eighth-ranked Unmentionables 51-47. Chris Holden pumped in 17 for the Walkers while Mike Beard gunned for 13 for the Unmentionables. The Walkers have learned to win without the services of Ted Garner. Division IV also has the ninth-ranked Midnight Train and the 2-1 Women of Vietnam (led by a pseudo-KA) to make life interesting.

End of the World continues to dominate street hockey as it beat the Banana Hammocks, 19-2, Bendecko’s II, 9-0, and Gliques Glizzards, 10-0. Sedge Gray, Mike Lufkin and company look unstoppable as post-season action approaches. Irresistible Force is the only team that seems to have a hope of catching End of the World. Force beat Dominating Bears, 6-1, the Cobras, 3-1, and Immovable Object, 3-1. The Force is paced byJosh Buddle’s scoring, Edwin Page’s goaltending, and Rick Link’s defense. Though the Cobras, Dominating and Immovable Object might disagree, the championship should eventually pair the incredible scoring power of End of the World and the defense of Irresistible Force to decide Davidson’s best street hockey team.

Welcome to Heart City! It’s today’s way to say “Happy Valentine’s Day” without getting mushy. Funky designs, off-beat humor, bold colors...a fresh new array of Valentine card ideas from Hallmark for Thursday, February 14.

Imac’s Skeetshooters in action on the court.

OVERSEAS EMPLOYMENT WORLDWIDE OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEN AND WOMEN! JAPAN - EUROPE - AFRICA - AUSTRALIA - THE SOUTH PACIFIC - SOUTH AMERICA - THE FAR EAST. EXCELLENT BENEFITS. HIGHER SALARIES AND WAGES! FREE TRANSPORTATION! GENEROUS VACATIONS!

More than 300,000 Americans — not including members of the armed services — are now living overseas. These people are engaged in nearly every possible activity...construction, engineering, sales, transportation, secretarial work, accounting, manufacturing, oil refining, teaching, nursing, government, etc. And many are earning $2,000 to $5,000 per month...or more!

To allow you the opportunity to apply for overseas employment, we have researched and compiled a new and exciting directory on overseas employment. Here is just a sample of what our International Employment Directory covers:

1. Our International Employment Directory lists dozens of cruise ship companies, both on the east and west coast. You will be told what type of positions the cruise ship companies hire, such as deck hands, restaurant help, cooks, bartenders, just to name a few. You will also receive several Employment Application Forms that you may send directly to the companies you would like to work for.

2. Firms and organizations employing all types of personnel in Australia, Japan, Africa, The South Pacific, The Far East, South America...nearly every part of the free world!

3. Companies and Government agencies employing personnel in nearly every occupation, from the unskilled laborer to the college-trained professional man or woman.

4. Firms and organizations engaged in foreign construction projects, manufacturing, mining, oil refining, engineering, sales, services, teaching, etc.

5. How and where to apply for overseas Government jobs.

6. Information about summer jobs.

7. You will receive our Employment Opportunity Digest...jam-packed with information about current job opportunities. Special sections feature news of overseas construction projects, executive positions, and teaching opportunities.

90 Day Money Back Guarantee

Our International Employment Directory is sent to you with this guarantee. If for any reason you do not obtain overseas employment or you are not satisfied with the job offers...simply return our Directory within 90 days and we'll refund your money promptly...no questions asked.

131 Elma Dr. Dept. T21 Centralia, WA 98531

ORDER FORM

International Employment Directory

Please send me a copy of your International Employment Directory. I understand that I may use this information for 90 days and if I am not satisfied with the results, I may return your Directory for an immediate refund. On that basis I’m enclosing $20.00 cash.... check.... or money order.... for your Directory.

NAME (please print)  
ADDRESS  
APT #  
CITY  
STATE  
ZIP  

International Employment Directory 1984