Friday, March 22, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Community Leaders Discuss Student Volunteer Work
By NELLE McCORKLE

At Wednesday's Open Luncheon, several local leaders discussed how Davidson students can contribute to the College community. The Y-Student Service
Corps forum focused on student volunteer programs, from the perspective of Pat Johnson, Terri Thumm, Betty Cumming, and Kaye Mahoney,
members of the community.

Mahoney, director of the Davidson/Cornelius Day Care Center, urged students to serve the community by doing “anything you can... to
give these children an experience they might not get otherwise.” She said the College Brass Quintet and Jazz and Wind
Ensemble performances, as well as the regular volunteer programs, are all good examples.

Girls’ Haven Director Thumm explained the resident program. Eleven girls are currently at the facility. Student volunteers visit the home
on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday nights to help the teenaged residents with their homework.

Cumming, volunteer leader of the local senior citizens’ activities, said the “several centers of concern for the elderly in this
community” are the community center’s hot lunch program, the Depot’s Davidson Senior Services, and the planned Davidson Retirement Community. Of
these projects, the College students are most closely connected with the Senior Services, which match students and local senior citizens
based on mutual interests. Cumming credited the success of the program to its individualized approach.

Davidson Community Center Director Johnson urged more student participation. Tommy Stephens, one of the tutoring program coordinators, commented later that
during the Awareness Week, nine new volunteers have begun tutoring. Anne Lambert, YSSC president, said many students also signed up
for other service programs during the week. Lambert said the primary goal of Awareness Week is to “raise awareness among
students and the community” and to “increase student involvement.”

History Professor David Shi, faculty advisor to the Y-Service Corps for the past eight years, spoke after the luncheon. Shi
said: “The Y continues to grow in scope and participation yet surprisingly enough still remains unknown to many students despite
the best efforts of the officers to publicize its activities. For this reason, this Awareness Week was planned so as
to remind Davidson students that there are both challenging and enriching opportunities for service to the larger community available to
them.” Shi commended both the diversity and flexibility of the Y-Service Corps programs. He said, “Any student can find an
appropriate commitment depending on his or her schedule.” Shi concluded, “We all hope more students will take advantage of these
programs, and in doing so enhance not only their own educational experience, but also the lives of many outside the
campus community.”

New Election Rules Clarify Requirements
By NELLE McCORKLE

New SGA election rules are a “specific” statement of existing rules, according to SGA Chancellor Christie Johnson. Prepared by the
Elections Council, the Guidelines clarify current regulations rather than state procedure changes, Johnson said.

Under the Guidelines, joint candidacies and campaigning are permitted only for publications editors, freshman advisors, and Honor Council defense advisors.
Also, it lists the locations where campus campaign material may be posted. Publicity may be displayed inside the first floor
of Chambers, in eating houses, in dorms, in perimeter houses, on Eumenean and Philanthropic halls, and on the Union and
Commons’ bulletin boards.

The other rules regulate campaign finances. Candidates may spend no more than fifteen dollars in running for a campus-wide office,
and no more than ten dollars in seeking a class, dormitory, or off-campus representative post. These totals do not include
the cost of the one-page posters (equal in number to half the electorate) each candidate receives at SGA expense. However,
each candidate must file an expense statement with the Elections Council.

According to Johnson, “The reason that we came up with these changes is that...we hoped to alleviate any problems that
might emerge from a misinterpretation of the by-laws and also to help regulate the elections.” Citing past problems of candidates
unsure of procedure, Johnson said, “The Elections Committee hopes that spring term elections will run more smoothly than the winter
term elections."

SGA Vice Presidential Candidates Discuss Issues

I am Hayes Dallas and I seek election to the office of Davidson College’s SGA vice president. Davidson is more
to me than merely an academic haven. It is a foundation of self-expression and high achievement. The people here are
exceptional and often demanding of perfection. These are the people I want to serve and give my very best if
elected. I was proud, ecstatic, yet resolved when I made my decision to attend Davidson. To turn down a few
athletic scholarships elsewhere in favor of this school’s infinitely endowed program is proof that I was looking for more. As
a member of the varsity tennis team, I feel that the personal rewards, as nice as they sometimes may be,
simply do not outweigh the feeling of representing this school. I would like to envision a Davidson College “community,” one
in which we are “Davidson students” first and foremost. It disturbs me to see the animosity brought about when one
house or social organization thinks of itself as superior to another. I think the SGA needs equal representation complemented with
equal concern in order to lessen the effect of intra-campus rivalries. The school is just too small and tightly knit
to allow these indifferences to continue. The role of vice president must be a supportive, vital role. The vice president
should always be ready to fulfill the duties held by the president. If elected, I would strive to serve as
a bond between the diverse groups that form our college, maintaining our diversity yet solidifying our community.

Christie Johnson

Last year, I served as one of the three Freshman Class Senators to the SGA. During last year’s involvement as
a senator and through my committee work, I was exposed to how the SGA works. The preparation and work which
goes into developing resolutions, writing by-law changes, and coordinating SGA committees is difficult to understand unless one has been closely
involved. This past year I have had the opportunity to experience on a more in-depth level how the SGA functions
through serving as SGA chancellor. The main responsibility of the SGA vice president is to serve as coordinator and overseer
of all committees which fall under SGA jurisdiction. I have served as a Night Chairman of the Phonathon, Programming Chairman
for SGA Weekend, Co-chairman of the Elections Council, member of the Trustee Contact Committee, and a member of the Career
Symposium Committee. Serving on each of these committees and working as SGA Chancellor have prepared me for the challenges and
frustrations which face the SGA vice president. As students of Davidson College, we are all members of the Student Government
Association. If I were elected Vice-President, I would make it my main goal to involve more of the Student Body
in SGA activities. The first step to greater participation, though, is to vote on March 26. I would appreciate your
support.

The year is 2024... a future you'll probably live to see.

A boy and his dog, an R-rated, rather kinky tale of survival: ROY AND HIS DOG starring DON JOHNSON, SUSANNE
BENTON, ALVY MOORE, and JASON ROBARDS. Technicolor.
