12 Thursday, December 12, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The names and faces of the 85-86 Cats

By EDWIN PAGE

Coach Bobby Hussey’s first recruiting class plays in its final season for Davidson this year. This large class of six
players has had a great deal of success both on and off the court. Though this group will not be
officially honored for their efforts on the court until the final home game on February 24 against VMI, the fans
can show their appreciation and support by showing up for all home games. The members of the Davidson basketball class
of 1986 are:

Pepper Bego
Bego is a three-year letterman from Springfield, Ohio. Last season he played in all 30 games, starting 11. He was
the team’s second leading scorer, averaging 10.4 points per game. Pepper also led the team in free throw shooting with
an 82.5 percent mark. Coach Hussey says of Pepper, “At times he has shown flashes of brilliance on the offensive
end. This year our main concerns with Pepper are development of consistency on a daily basis; utilization of his talent,
quickness and speed on defense as well as offense; and to become the leader and clutch player we can go
to in a given situation.” Bego possesses an accurate jumper that he can pop from long range. Look for him
to provide an offensive spark for the Cats when they need it this season.

Gerry Born
Born is another of the four returning three-year lettermen. He is a 6’7", 210-pound forward from Ringgold, Georgia. Last year
he emerged as a team leader, scoring 10.1 points a game (third best on the squad) and leading the team
in rebounds with 6.0 per game while starting in 27 of the Cats’ 30 games. Hussey calls Gerry “a proven
rebounder with the ability to become a strong Southern Conference player.” (So far Born has lived up to the high
expectations the Cats have for him, leading the team with 6.2 rebounds per game and scoring 8.5 points per outing.)
Last year he shared the John M. Belk award for Most Valuable Player with Derek Rucker. Born has been one
of the Wildcats’ most solid performers over the last two years in both scoring and rebounding.

Jim McConkey
McConkey, a 6’8”, 220 center from Collinsville, Ill. and three-year letterman is coming off a year that was somewhat of
a letdown. In his freshman year he was named to the Southern Conference All-Freshman team and as a sophomore he
started in all 28 games. Last year he played in 29 of 30 games starting five times. Hussey said: “Last
year was difficult for Jim, but we all remember the good things he did as a freshman and sophomore. He
has worked extremely hard this past spring and summer on his game. We feel this should be a good year
for Jim.” If the early season is any indication, this will be a good year for McConkey. He has started
all five games, averaging 5.8 rebounds and leading the team in that category in both the Wake Forest and Catholic
games.

Ken Niebuhr
Niebuhr is a three-year letterman who was probably the most improved player on last year’s team. After averaging just over
one point per game in his first two years, the 6’7” forward came alive last season pumping in 8.2 ppg
and leading the team in field goal percentage at a 62.2 rate. “Ken obviously was one of the most pleasant
surprises in the Davidson program last year,” Hussey said. “He played extremely well in the early part of the season
and was instrumental in the success of the team until he was injured late in the year.” Niebuhr showed signs
of returning to his pre-injury form with a solid six point, seven rebound effort against Eckerd, and if he can
play up to last year’s level, he will be a force inside for the Cats.

Pat Riazzi
Riazzi is a 5’11”, 175-point guard from Kettering, Ohio. He transferred to Davidson last year after playing two years at
Henry Ford Junior College in Michigan where he averaged 18.5 points and 6.0 assists per game his second year. Hussey
called Pat “a dedicated person and player, and one who takes pride in his performance.” He said, “I think our
fans should be able to see the quality basketball player that Pat is this year.” Riazzi served notice on the
kind of player he is during an important game at UTC last year when he played extremely well, scoring eight
points in relief of a sick Derek Rucker. Riazzi should add depth and experience to an already strong Davidson backcourt.

Ted Wolfe
Ted Wolfe, a two-year letterman, saw action in 25 of the Wildcats’ games last year. A 6’8” forward from Arlington
Heights, Ill., Wolfe has the height and the experience to help shore up the Davidson frontcourt. “Ted is a great
team player,” Hussey said. “Every day he gives maximum performance whether it is in a starting role, a substitute role
or maybe getting very little playing time. Hopefully, with all his personal attributes he should have a very good year.”
Wolfe has been slowed early this season by an injury, but should come along as the season progresses. With his
size, experience and outstanding hustle, he will make a solid backup at the forward position.

By DARRYL BEGO
If the Davidson basketball team plans to have a successful season, juniors Chris Heineman and Anthony “Ace” Tanner need to
have strong seasons. Heineman, a 6’3” guard from Connersville, IN, averaged 6.1 ppg and handed out 61 assists while playing
all three backcourt positions for the Wildcats last season. So far in 1985 Heineman has started at the second guard
position and played extremely well. Tanner, a 6’6” forward from Cottondale, FL, may be the most spectacular Wildcat player. Tanner
averaged five ppg, two rpg and handed out 30 assists, quite a few considering his role as a backup big
man. Tanner had one of his best games ever as a Wildcat against Wake Forest this season and has been
called “one of the keys to our“season” by coach Bobby Hussey. When I asked the two players about their role
as juniors, Tanner replied: “We have a somewhat double role. We are leaders in that we provide leadership for the
freshmen and sophomores, but we are also in a learning role. We learn from the seniors in order to make
the transition toward becoming seniors ourselves. Such leadership skills are pertinent because we anticipate a large freshman class next year
upon the graduation of our present senior class.” Heineman agrees as he describes similar qualities in his own role on
the court: “My job on the court is to keep things under control. Offensively, my job is to get the
ball to those who are going to score: inside, Gerry Born and the other big guys; outside, Derek. Defensively, I
am supposed to put a lot of pressure on the opponent’s top scoring guard. I think this is why I
have played so extensively, because of my improvement in my defensive skills. Overall, I am not to allow things to
get too erratic.” Both share optimistic outlooks toward the remainder of the season, and both agreed that the Wake Forest
game was a learning experience. Tanner viewed the game as helpful in preparing the team for the upcoming Southern Conference
games. He said, “Such games [Wake Forest] are important, win or lose, in that we must incorporate our learning experiences
into our overall scheme of play.” Heineman added, “We learned that we must keep to our game plan and remain
patient. If we do this, and keep our composure and confidence, we will come out O.K.” Along with everything else,
they agreed with the pre-season prediction of the Cat’s finish, and the importance of fan participation and support. Tanner was
comfortable with the team being predicted to finish third. “Marshall and Chattanooga are going to be good every year, because
of their heavy junior college recruiting,” he said. “So, being predicted to finish third also shows that we are in
a good position to win the conference.” Heineman noted, “Being picked third may allow us to sneak up on a
few teams, while we also gain some respect being picked behind teams with the esteem of Marshall and Chattanooga.” Finally,
they wished to encourage the fans to come out and see the Cats play as much as possible. Heineman said
he can feel how pumped up the players are when the fans are very supportive. He said he hopes the
fans will stick with the team through thick and thin and not be easily discouraged with occasional losses. Tanner sums
it up by saying, “Yeah, who likes to play in an empty gym?”

By MIKE ADAMS

Last year’s freshman class of Davidson basketball players surprised a lot of observers with their high level of skill and
maturity. Those freshmen have moved up to the status of sophomores and big things are expected of this class.

Jeff Himes

Jeff Himes is one of two returning sophomore lettermen. He had an excellent freshman year in which he started 28
out of 30 games at forward. He averaged eight points and 4.3 rebounds per game and was second on the
team in field goal percentage. Himes received the Robert McLeod award for the top defensive player and was named to
the Southern Conference All-Freshmen team. Himes spent a lot of time in the weight room during the off-season and improved
his already adequate strength. Hussey says that having gained a year of experience, “Jeff can be one of the defensive
‘stoppers’ that we feel is necessary in the Southern Conference.” Himes is from Columbia, S.C., where he played basketball and
baseball for Irmo High School. He intends to major in either economics or English.

Derek Rucker

Derek Rucker is the other sophomore who lettered for the Cats as a freshman. Rucker guided the team at point
guard, where he started 29 out of 30 games. He led the Cats in scoring (12.8 points per game), steals,
and assists. He concluded the season by being named second team All-Conference and to the All-Freshmen team. Rucker also split
the John M. Belk most valuable player award with Gerry Born. Rucker was by far the most consistent player for
the Cats, scoring in double figures in 25 out of 30 games. A year of experience should give him the
edge he needs to become the top guard in the Conference. Hussey says, “He understands the game, knows how to
play and has excellent skills. He can play any style or tempo.” Rucker is from Beechwood, Ohio, and he played
his high school ball at the University School. Rucker’s father, Reggie, was an athlete as well. He played receiver for
the Cleveland Browns and New England Patriots of the NFL.

Dave Fitzgerald

Dave Fitzgerald, of Maple Shade, N.J., saw limited action last season. He played in only seven games and had a
season high of four points against Wofford. Hussey is complimentary of Fitzgerald’s skills, saying “Dave is a good shooter, a
good ball handler for his size and makes good decisions.” Fitzgerald is a starting pitcher on the baseball team as
well as a basketball player.

Michael Gynn

Michael Gynn also got little playing time last season. He appeared in only eight games. At 6’8” and 210, he
adds depth at the big forward spot. Hussey said, “He may be our biggest surprise this season.” Gynn is from
Winnetka, Ill.

Dean Keener

Dean Keener appeared in nine games for the Cats as a back-up guard last year. Despite his limited minutes, Hussey
was pleased with his development during the season. Hussey said, “This year Dean should become a very good shooter and
an intense defensive player in the backcourt.” Keener is from Tallmadge, Ohio and plans to major in economics.

Todd Scott

Todd Scott is a transfer from the University of Evansville. He averaged 5.5 ppg as a freshman there. Scott was
an All-State player for Peekskill High in New York, where he averaged 29.0 points per game as a senior. “He
has the ability to get the ball in the basket in various ways,” Hussey said.
