By ANDY BARRON

One week can make a big difference. Just ask Davidson’s soccer team. A week ago, the Wildcats were 1-4 and limping away from an embarrassing 3-1 loss to Belmont Abbey. Now, fresh off two big wins, they are ready to take on the world.

“This is probably the biggest week ever for Davidson soccer,” said coach Charlie Slagle. “Knocking off Duke was great, but combining that with a road victory at Appalachian State makes this the biggest week since I’ve been here.”

Anyone who missed last Friday’s 1-0 upset of Duke should know their “Davidson Experience” is forever incomplete. Davidson out-hustled, out-skilled, and out-played the 12th-ranked Blue Devils. The fans in attendance saw the Wildcats play their most inspired offense of the year and a defense that refused to fold.

The game’s lone goal came 15 minutes into the game. Sophomore Andy Clarke threw the ball in from a position so near the goal line, the play might as well have been a corner kick. The throw found freshman Tracy Hankins open in the penalty area. Hankins tapped the ball to senior Tony Cabrales, who struck the ball home.

Neither team took control of the field for the rest of the first half. Both teams had chances to score as play went from end to end, but neither team was able to take advantage of those chances. The first twenty minutes of the second half were all Duke as the ball rarely left Davidson’s end of the field. While Duke was able to control the ball, they were unable to get off many good shots due to Davidson’s midfielders dropping back and picking off passes in the penalty area. Any shots Duke did get off were handled coolly by junior goalkeeper Jim Kelly and defensive backs juniors Steve Stith and Chris Jones and sophomores Mike Spear and Joe Moss.

The last part of the game saw Davidson get some scoring opportunities and their greatest challenge of the game from the Duke offense. With Duke pressing every man forward to avert an upset, Davidson had a handful of opportunities to score an insurance goal. Unfortunately, none were successful. Unfortunate because Davidson came a heartbeat away from losing their hard-earned upset in the game’s final minute. Disaster was averted by the save. In that fateful minute, Duke superman Tom Kain, a three-time All-American and USA World Cup team member, got the ball fifteen yards from the goal. Kain turned and shot only to have the ball rebound to midfield off the outrushing Kelly. It was, in every sense of the word, a save.

“I saw the ball coming in and thought everything was going to fall apart when we were so close,” Kelly said. “I just charged out and got there in time.”

Davidson didn’t have long to celebrate the big win, however, since the road trip to Appalachian State was next. This crucial conference game is, as Kelly said, “the biggest game of the year.” The first half was a classic midfield struggle with neither team able to establish control. Both teams showed plenty of hustle but were unable to set up any good shots.

Davidson didn’t hesitate to put the game away in the second half. A few minutes after the shortest halftime in the history of college soccer, Davidson scored on another Clarke throw-in. Clarke's pass found senior Wallis Goodman open in the penalty area. Goodman headed the ball to senior Sean Austin who headed the ball past the stranded goalie. Unlike Duke, who fought hard all second half in an attempt to even the score, Appalachian State’s attack never really materialized to challenge Davidson’s lead. In fact, poor officiating was Davidson’s chief worry down the stretch.

The big week raised Davidson’s record to 3-4 on the year and 1-0 in the conference. The Wildcats still need to improve their offense if their success is to continue. But the last week has turned the season around just in time for conference play.

Field Hockey Lives Through Highs And Lows

By EDWIN PAGE

The Davidson women’s field hockey team had a frustrating week, going 0-2 and vacillating between their best-played game of the young season and their worst. Last Friday, the Cats took on a tough Pfeiffer team in front of a crowd significantly reduced by the simultaneous soccer match with Duke. It is unfortunate that this game was not viewed by a larger crowd, for the Cats played inspired hockey. In the opening moments, it looked as though the game would be a repeat of the preseason contest three weeks earlier when Pfeiffer shelled Davidson 7-0. The ball was almost constantly in front of theDavidson goal, and the Cat attack almost non-existent. But after an early Pfeiffer goal, things started to change. Davidson began beating Pfeiffer to the ball and began to control the play. In the second half, the Cats turned up the intensity an extra notch and outplayed the surprised visitors. Coach Patty Daley said, “we played well in all aspects of the game except putting the ball in the cage.” The Cats managed several shots and forced several corners (a Davidson strength due to junior sweeper Heather McKee’s rocket-like shot) but none could find the net. Pfeiffer held on to eke out a 1-0 win.

On Monday at Catawba, the Cats had every reason to be confident, coming off the Pfeiffer game and their win against Salem the week before. But unfortunately, they came out flat. The intensity that characterized the Pfeiffer game was on hiatus and the Cats paid the price, dropping their record to 1-3. The attack was sporadic and Davidson once again failed to score. They left frustrated and down 4-0 to a team Daley felt was quite beatable “had we played like the second half of the Pfeiffer game.” Junior halfback Pam Harmon was steady all game but was one of few bright spots. The game marked the first real disappointment for the Cats this season. Their level of play and intensity had been improving each game until Monday. Davidson needs to get back on track quickly because this week they face two stiff tests. Monday they travel to High Point and Wednesday they tee it up against a strong Wake Forest team in Winston-Salem. Daley doesn’t want to dwell on the loss but hopes it will make the Cats come out hungry on Monday.

New Passing Record Fails To Carry Cats To Victory
By MIKE ADAMS

Despite junior quarterback Steven Bradley breaking a Davidson passing record against Bucknell on Saturday, the Wildcats still dropped their third straight game by a 34-14 margin. Bradley attempted sixty-three passes in the game, surpassing the old record of fifty-nine set by Dave Harper in 1973. Unfortunately, only twenty-five of Bradley’s attempts were complete. The Cats were again hurt by turnovers. Three scores in the first half came after Davidson lost the ball in its own territory. One was a field goal following an interception with just 10 seconds left in the half.

All in all, the Wildcats played miserably in the first half. Offensively, Davidson managed only 54 first-half yards. Quarterbacks Bradley and sophomore Charlie Winborne combined for fifty-one yards on nine completions in 28 attempts. The rushing attack was held to three yards as the Cats went scoreless in the first half. Defensively, Davidson gave up a lot of yards and a lot of points in the first half. Bucknell gained 267 yards and scored three touchdowns and two field goals to take a 27-0 lead at the half.

The Cats managed a much better showing in the second half. Bradley threw for over 200 yards to direct Davidson to two second-half touchdowns. These 14 points were the most the Wildcats have scored in any half this season. Davidson’s first score came in the third period on a ten-play, 78-yard drive. This drive was the most successful mix of passing and running the Cats have managed this year. Sophomore running back Eric Ogden had four carries for 29 yards while Bradley completed three of six passes for 49 yards. Freshman running back Bryan Overcash got the score when he jumped on Ogden’s fumble in the end zone.

The second Wildcat score came on a 13-play, 68-yard drive in the fourth quarter. The touchdown came on a three-yard, fourth-down pass from Bradley to senior Doug Neil. Neil, normally a defensive back, had switched to offense for this drive. Others who played well on offense for Davidson were sophomore receivers Don Davis with four catches for 74 yards and Aaron Edwards with four catches for 64 yards and five kick-off returns for 94 yards.

The Cats tightened up defensively in the second half as well. Bucknell managed only seven second-half points. Junior defensive end Marcus Allen had another excellent game, leading the team in tackles for the second consecutive week with 13. Senior defensive back Tony Smith had nine tackles and broke up two passes while defensive back Neil had 10 tackles to go with his touchdown reception. Senior tackle Andy MaCary had 10 tackles on the defensive line. Davidson travels to Newberry this Saturday for a 7:30 game. Newberry is ranked in the national NAIA top 10. They have beaten Furman and Gardner-Webb this season and should present a tough challenge for the 0-3 Wildcats.

Ken Jones