Friday, November 8, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson
By JANE AURELL

Headlining the News for the week of October 31 through November 6:

In superpower news, Secretary of State Shultz went to Moscow to discuss with Soviet leaders the agenda for the upcoming
summit between President Reagan and Soviet leader Gorbachev. The Reagan administration said it will accept the 50 percent reduction in
the number of intercontinental ballistic missiles but will not accept a mutual 50% reduction of the entire nuclear arsenal. Meanwhile,
in an extended session of the Geneva arms control talks, the U.S. offered its response to the Soviet arms proposal.
The U.S. proposal calls for balanced reductions in nuclear arsenals, which includes deep cuts in long-range nuclear weapons, but offers
no compromises on the Strategic Defense Initiative.

In other news, the Soviet newspaper Izvestia published an edited version of last Thursday’s interview with President Reagan; Reagan’s criticism
of Soviet policy and his discussion of S.D.I. were omitted. In Washington, Vitaly Yurchenko, a KGB official, denied that he
willfully defected to the U.S., but rather was kidnapped and drugged by CIA officials; the CIA rigorously rejected the charges,
and the State Department said he was free to return to the Soviet Union; Yurchenko went back to the USSR
on Wednesday. After six years of imposed silence, Soviet dissident Andrei Sakharov spoke by phone from Gorki to his family
in the U.S.

In South Africa, President Botha’s National Party lost one of four open seats to a more conservative faction in last
week's midterm elections. Despite the loss, Botha pledged to continue along the “road of realism and levelheadedness” to reform apartheid.
The government imposed a ban on media coverage of unrest in South Africa’s 38 restricted areas. On Monday, Pretoria announced
that the Rev. Allen Boesak, an anti-apartheid activist, will not be permitted to go to the U.S. to receive the
Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights Award. Meanwhile, in London, American civil rights activist Jesse Jackson led thousands in an anti-apartheid
march outside the South African Embassy.

Shultz in Moscow, Geneva talks, South Africa...

In Mideastern developments, the USSR and her East Bloc satellites are making tentative moves toward re-establishing diplomatic ties with Israel.
Egyptian President Mubarak and PLO Chairman Arafat met in Cairo to discuss their views on the Mideast situation. In Syria,
Lebanese political officials are engaged in discussion over a Syrian-sponsored plan to settle the civil war that has plagued Lebanon
for the past 10 years. Meanwhile, radical Shiite groups in Lebanon said that the four French and five American hostages
will have no hope of release until Kuwait frees 17 Shiite extremists.

Elsewhere in the world —

To counter U.S. charges that his regime is in danger of collapse due to communist insurgency, Philippine President Marcos called
for elections to take place on Jan. 17. In New Zealand, two French intelligence agents pleaded guilty to a reduced
charge of manslaughter in the sinking of the Greenpeace ship Rainbow Warrior last July. U.S. spy planes reported that Nicaragua
may be picking up Soviet-made weapons in Cuba. Accompanied by his recently released daughter, El Salvador’s President Duarte made a
three-day visit to the U.S. To curb the flow of drugs into the U.S., the government launched a massive anti-drug
effort aimed against Colombia, Panama, Belize, and Jamaica. In Poland, Gen. Jaruzelski resigned as premier to focus his attention on
his work as chief of the country’s Communist party. In downtown Bogota, Colombia, violence broke out between government troops and
guerrilla forces.

Finally, an article in the Sunday edition of The Washington Post reported that after four and one-half years of ineffective
economic sanctions, President Reagan ordered a plan for CIA covert action to undermine the Libyan government of Col. Muammar Qaddafi;
President Reagan has ordered an investigation into the leak of this information.

On the home front, the nation’s largest record companies have agreed to place the warning label “Explicit Lyrics” on albums,
cassettes, or videodiscs containing explicit lyrics about sex, drug abuse, and violence. Tests from President Reagan's second check-up since his
cancer surgery in July indicate that he still remains in “good health.” Finally, on Monday, after three and one-half weeks
lost in the Sacramento River, scientists finally managed to guide Humphrey, the 40-ton humpback whale, back into the Pacific.

Thought for the Week: “Only a mediocre person is always at his best.” — W. Somerset Maugham

Willingham speaks on duties, plans for Alumni Association
NELLE McCORKLE

Carol Connor Willingham ‘77, youngest and first woman president-elect of the Alumni Association, said her recent graduation “will help other
young alumni feel like more of a part,” she said. “I know there are people who are sixty-fivewho are more
progressive than I am. We've had some leadership (in the Alumni Association). I really want people to know they don’t
have to wait until they're forty years old to get involved with the Alumni Association. “I was really pleased a
couple of weeks after I got elected when I got a letter from a woman who'd graduated a couple of
years ago who wanted to get involved with the Alumni Association and participate in DAAP (Davidson Alumni Admissions Program). I
know she’s not alone — I hope that’s an indication there are more like her out there,” Willingham said.

Her duties, Willingham said, consist of “reflecting the sentiments of alumni, not just my particular opinion (although I probably will
have one).” Willingham served as decade chairman for alumni giving and currently works with the Davidson Alumni Admissions program. “I
think those two experiences have kept me in touch with my classmates and the College,” she said.

Of the College and alumni, Willingham said, “I’m not sure they're two separate entities. I'd like to act as a
conduit.” Willingham, a member of the first class of full-time degree-seeking women enrolled at Davidson, called coeducation “a wonderful thing
for Davidson men and women.” She described the eighty-eight women in her class in 1973 as “just a nice group
of people — they (Davidson admissions officers) were looking in women for the same things they were looking for in
men — someone who will make a contribution.”

Willingham plans to establish a “networking relationship” between these alumnae and current students. She said, “I think because all the
alumnae are young, it’s really important for current women students to have role models.” Willingham said, “There were two or
three women professors when I was there; now alumnae are “doctors, lawyers, and homemakers” who can “share problems and opportunities”
with current women students. “Women who have graduated from Davidson have a lot to offer. Those resources are untapped. We're
determined; we're going to get them — men and women.”

Carol Connor Willingham.

Nkomo lectures on South Africa’s “deep dilemma”

By ANDY CLARK

University of North Carolina at Charlotte professor Mokubung Nkomo lectured on the history and problems of the current South African
situation last Tuesday night at the Carolina Inn. Nkomo works in the field of International Education and Development and is
the author of Student Culture and Activism in Black South African Universities.

According to Nkomo, a native South African, South Africa has declined at a “quickened pace” since 1984. School closures and
campus incidents indicate the “dire straits” of South Africa. He said South Africa faces a “deep dilemma” caused by a
declining economy, a shortage of labor, and a decline in the value of South African currency to about thirty-five cents
for each dollar. These problems signify that “the whole ideological edifice of Africa... is beginning to disintegrate.”

The young people of South Africa are protesting the situation by refusing to enlist in the army. Such acts, Nkomo
said, show “it is only a matter of time until South Africa will be free. The question is how and
when, because the momentum is already here,” Nkomo said.

Nkomo listed actions which have been taken against the South African government. Since 1979, about eleven states and thirty-seven cities
have withdrawn investments from American companies in South Africa. “This is a particularly important contribution because the solution,” Nkomo said,
“can be sought through non-violent ways.”

Economic sanctions against the South African government should also be used, Nkomo said. Sanctions should be used in combination with
other methods to “drive South Africa to some point where they will have to reach a just and rational conclusion.”

Nkomo concluded his speech by saying, “the purveyor of violence is not the victim, but rather the structure itself.” Thus,
the black South African majority has been forced to protect themselves against such “savagery” by the white government as a
last self-defense, Nkomo explained. “Apartheid is a crime against humanity,” Nkomo said, and the South African system is “the most
obnoxious system in the world.”

According to Nkomo, an enmity has existed between the white minority government and the black South African majority since the
creation of the Union of South Africa in 1910. The Land Act of 1913 which set aside only thirteen percent
of South African land for the black majority is the source of the problem. Activists, peaceful massive protests, and organizations
such as the African National Congress signify attempts by the black South African to attain a voice in the South
African government. The black leadership, so far, has been ignored by the white government, Nkomo said.
