Friday, March 29, 1985

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bio-Engineering Seminar: Class Teaches Technology For Informed Decisions

By TED WILSON

If you’re intrigued by how a man with an artificial leg can run across the United States, psychology Professor John Brockway’s Bio-Engineering and Health Technologies class will fascinate you. Brockway, who said he is committed to giving students an opportunity to learn firsthand the technology of our society, offers the course through the Center for Special Studies for the second consecutive year.

“How can a liberal arts student consider himself liberally educated without knowing the body of knowledge known as technology?” Brockway asked. He said students “will be decision-makers in ten to fifteen years... and will be asked to make decisions about technology in the future.” He added, they “are not liberally educated if they don’t know what it is about.”

“Society is infinitely linked to technology... We are bathed in technology,” Brockway said. Furthermore, he said, “strong ethical, moral and religious overtones” are involved with technological developments. He said students need to learn the technology so they can deal with these issues.

Brockway said Americans today depend on sophisticated technology to keep them alive and to correct their medical problems. “Society is aging. More and more people require technology, in an unethical way, to pick up the failure of the will. People expect technology to correct the [failures of] these wills.” For example, when people know they can have bypass surgery to correct damage, they are less inclined to regulate their diet.

“Without technology we don’t have a chance to make rational decisions,” about such issues as abortion. For example, the risk to the mother of an abortion has “gone from gigantic to tiny,” he said. Since her life is less at risk, “the person is more prone to make a decision in a rational fashion.” Hence, “technology enables clear thought. [It] implies ethics, and the development of ethics proceeds faster than it ever has in the past.”

Brockway emphasized “technology by itself is valuable. The human mind gives the value to the technology.” Hence, Brockway is offering a course in Bio-Engineering and Health Technologies, the first of its kind at an American liberal arts school. Davidson was one of ten schools to receive funding from the Sloan Foundation to introduce technology courses in the curriculum. Davidson uses the $250,000 grant to offer new courses, sponsor six symposia, and to hold two summer workshops, at which Davidson College and Johnson C. Smith professors learn about applied mathematics. In addition to the Sloan Foundation, the new course is financially supported by the Mellon Foundation, IBM, Charlotte Memorial Hospital, and the College. The course deals with five major...

Liberal Arts Symposium: Technology's Effects On Society

By ANDREA DIEDRICH

The “Symposium on Technology and Freedom,” the fourth symposium in the “New Liberal Arts” program, will be held today and tomorrow in the Chambers Art Gallery. The symposium, which includes a series of lectures and discussions, will explore the effects of computer, medical and weapons technology on human values and the world in which we live.

Associate philosophy Professor Robert Maydole will open the symposium today at 3:30 p.m. with a lecture titled “Technology and Freedom: A General Overview.” Maydole said he plans to sketch three opposing philosophies of the effects of technology in his lecture. The first view is what he calls the “Utopian view of technology,” which suggests that “technology is a kind of savior to the problems that modern man confronts.” The second is “the anti-technology view, which blames the problems of the world on technology.” The third view, which Maydole calls “the existentialist view of technology,” maintains that technology has to be fitted to the human condition. This view, though less commonly asserted, according to Maydole, is the one on which he is working.

The symposium lecture series schedule includes: a lecture titled “Artificial Intelligence and Intentionality,” by Dr. Raymond Nelson, professor emeritus of philosophy at Case Western Reserve University at 4 p.m. today. Then at 8 p.m. Dr. John McDermott, distinguished professor of philosophy and head of humanities in medicine at Texas A&M University, will speak on “The Stethoscope as Talisman: Medical Technology as Loneliness.” Maydole...biomedical technologies: MRI scanners, lasers, heart electrophysiology, stage renal failure, and innovative prosthetics. Students visit Charlotte Memorial Hospital where they meet physicians and observe their work. Brockway, who is writing a textbook on the subject, stressed there are no prerequisites for the course but that some students, depending on their background, may need outside help in physics. Because the course covers a wide range of material, Brockway said: “When I need expert help, I turn to faculty members,” such as Professors Burnett, Stell, Thornberry, and Christian, who guest lecture to the class. Furthermore, he said he chose to emphasize medical technology as “the intertwinement between life and life quality is clearer in medical technology” than in other areas. Enrollment this year dropped from 22 to six students. Brockway attributed this decline to a lack of publicity until after the first registration period. Brockway said, however, the course “should survive” in the future “because it has merit.” He said he has written another grant proposal for additional funding from the Sloan Foundation, and the College has already scheduled “Technology and Science” symposia for next year.

Professor Discusses Sri Lanka
By NELLE McCORKLE

Calling the country “an interesting case study in economic development,” economics Professor Peter Hess spoke on “Lessons from Sri Lanka” at Wednesday's Open Luncheon. Hess visited Sri Lanka with a University of Maryland “field study” program during the summer of 1984. Sri Lanka, a small island off India with a population of 15 million, ranks as one of the poorest nations in the world per capita income. However, Hess called the infant mortality rate a “more accurate” measure of economic development. According to this rate, Sri Lanka is “one of the more developed of the third world countries.” Hess praised Sri Lanka's long history of investing in her people, but added that “rapid economic growth” has not followed. Since the late 1970s, when a new government gained control of the country, Sri Lanka has shifted from interventionist policies to an increased reliance on the market mechanism. Hess called the current government “more pro-West” than the preceding one, but cited its dependence on foreign aid for development projects.

With 11 other professors, Hess visited a native development project, the Sarvodaya Shramadana. Literally, this phrase means “the awakening of all in society by the mutual sharing of one's time, thought, and energy.” Organized in 1958 by A.T. Ariyaratne, a Sri Lankan high school teacher, the movement concentrates on aid to the rural poor. Based on Gandhian principles, Sarvodaya is now the largest non-governmental organization in Sri Lanka, with a “network of educational and training centers” including over 4,000 villages. Incorporating, but not limited by Buddhist beliefs, Sarvodaya advocates self-help. Sarvodaya employees and local volunteers lead interested villages in work camps. Projects include road construction, irrigation improvements, sanitation upgrading, model farms, community kitchens, inoculation programs, and child care centers.

Beyond the immediate application of Sarvodaya work projects, the program incorporates an entire philosophy of Third World development. According to Hess, this philosophy centers on the belief that development in the third and fourth worlds need not follow the Western model. Ariyaratne, he added, states that “the strategies of Sarvodaya are born of hard experience.” American students are encouraged to participate in the Sarvodaya program, Hess said. Concerning American policy in general, Hess urged increased and “better-targeted” aid to developing nations. Campus Forum Committee Chairperson Lisa Eldridge, in charge of planning the Open Luncheons, commented, “I hope [Dr. Hess's presentation] generates interest in students to help in rural development in third world countries.”