Friday, January 11, 1985 / The Davidsonian

Vaughn And Evans Run For Union President

Edwin Evans

The possibility of my being elected Union President excites me tremendously. The decision to run for a Union office has been an idea that I’ve flirted with since freshman year. Unfortunately, my decision during sophomore year (two years ago) to take a year off from school made it impossible for me to take an active role as a Union committee chairman. However, I’m back now and there’s no reason why I should keep from focusing my energy and excitement any longer.

I strongly believe that I have a firm understanding of the role which the Union President must play. I also feel that I have the background, the ability, and the enthusiasm to fulfill that role. I feel that if I am elected, the Union could continue to provide a wide variety of quality social and co-curricular activities for the Davidson community.

The role of the President is threefold. Most importantly, the President is responsible for overseeing and providing initiative and energy to the various activities and committees, assuring that each is fulfilling its role in the community. Secondly, the President, in conjunction with the vice-presidents, selects the chairpeople who head the Union committees and serve as voting members of the Union Board. Finally, the Union President serves in an administrative capacity as head of the Union Board and on the Union Policy Committee, both of which determine the overall direction of the Union.

My qualifications for this position are very well suited to the criteria involved. Probably the most important qualification that I have is my great enthusiasm to do the job and do it well. Although I do have good organizational skills, I feel that a more important qualification which I have is my ability to work well with others. For instance, my travel experiences last year in New Zealand and Australia taught me the value of good listening skills in addition to requiring me to work and live with many types of people. Through my experiences, I feel that I have learned to put these skills to work to motivate and encourage others when it is necessary. Moreover, I feel very comfortable and familiar within the Union through my efforts with the Artist Series, Games Committee, videos, and numerous other activities.

If I am elected, I hope to continue the excellent programs and format which the Union has provided this year. However, this coming year will be very different in that almost the entire present Union Board will be graduating this spring. This will require a rekindling of leadership, enthusiasm, and motivation for new committee chairpeople. In addition, I would like to see more and more people take advantage of opportunities which the Union has to offer. The Union is a great place. It provides for the community socially and intellectually and is primarily run by students. I feel that with my leadership and ability to incorporate enthusiasm and good listening skills, you can ensure that you get a good Union.

Rob Vaughn

Last fall, the 900 Room just about died. No pitchers, no freshmen — people just didn’t go to the campus bar that often. Revenues fell sharply. I thought the room could be more attractive — like a regular bar — and I thought of about a jillion projects and programs. Some were possible, and some weren't. Finally, without any budget, I put some programs together that have been a lot of fun: Friday Afternoon Club, Cinema and Draft, Monday night football with wonderdogs, and other evenings sure to offer more than beer and darkness.

Why did I do this? Because — and I say this without any self-congratulation intended — I like to see good things come to their potential. Of course, multitudes are not flocking to the 900 Room, but it’s much better. Someone had to put his foot down to improve the atmosphere, and that foot was me.

For the Union Board to reach its potential, it must be led by students, it must be led by students who are both interested in the College’s betterment and knowledgeable about how to attain it. The interest proves most important — fresh ideas flow from a true desire for a better social and extra-curricular environment. I have proven my interest in the college and enthusiasm for its improvement through my work with R.A.C.E., the Nuclear Awareness Committee, the PiKA fraternity, and the Union.

The interest bears ideas, but without knowledge to implement my plans, initial enthusiasm quickly turns to frustration. My experience with the Union has shown me some promising opportunities and unfortunate restrictions — now I’m more informed and still enthusiastic.

I rank what can be expected from the Union Board on three tiers. The first that I would expect next year is that programs equal those of the current board. Perhaps the new board can improve upon what has been done before, and this constitutes the second tier — doing things bigger, better, and more successfully. Getting the fine points down quickly, and moving on. I look for bigger speakers, higher quality and more extensive publicity, great bands, better food in the café, more heavily attended big weekends, and excellent films.

More generally, near-perfect communication with Patterson Court must exist. Competition with the Court, especially in some areas, will result in failure. To achieve these improvements, the board must consist of talented and dedicated people. Through my involvement in other organizations, I can recognize these people, and I would choose talented and dedicated chairpersons. But they must have a leader who doesn’t allow stagnation, who insists on improvement, and whose satisfaction lies in constant innovation. With this leadership, the board could realize its full potential, a potential that is tier three. Tier three encompasses the second tier — improving what the Union Board has done before. But I would like to see the initial interestThat board members show for the College maintained, not only by programming for the Union, but showing an interest in other campus concerns and a desire to act on them. Through their knowledge and positions, board members could act as a sort of militia ready to provide forums, speakers, and support for campus concerns as they arise. To keep motivation high, dynamic leadership is essential. I offer this leadership for the board, the ideas which fund its progress, the breadth of interest to widen its appeal, and the experience to make this work. I see the great potential for the Union Board, and I’m very excited about it.

Stout, Hobart Vie For Social Vice President

Frank Hobart

The job of Union social vice-president will require someone who works well with other people. Someone who is a motivator can entice others to get involved and contribute their time to make the Union a representative organization of the students. With the proper input, the Union can do an amazing amount of things for Davidson College. Throughout my two-and-one-half years at Davidson, I have participated in a variety of activities. As a freshman hall counselor, I have learned the true meaning of responsibility, but at the same time, I have gained the experience of planning and coordinating social activities. My involvement in SGA for the past two years has given me insight into how students and the administration get along together. And as an active member of SAE fraternity and former house manager, I know what it means to get your hands “dirty” if the job requires it. Other activities include membership with Students for Jim Hunt, College Democrats, Trustee Contact Committee, Self-Study Committee, Flickerball, and Le Team.

If elected as Union social vice-president, I (1) hope to continue the fine job that the others before me have done. This year’s president and vice president have brought the Union very close to the student body and will no doubt be a hard act to follow. (2) I hope to incorporate all dorms and eating houses into the Union activities with minimal scheduling conflicts. And (3) last but not least, I hope to be able to inject my own creative thinking, however bizarre, into the total Union program.

The role of Union social vice-president is important but allows for a lot of freedom. The social vice president is responsible for the selection of six committee chairs: Concert Comm., Dance Comm., Intimate Performances, Pop Films, Davidson Outdoors, and Games Comm. Membership to the Union board, Poly Comm., and Coordinator of Big Weekends are responsibilities as well. A great deal of what the Union social vice-president does is up to the individual who holds the office. With my enthusiasm and motivation, I feel that I will do a more than sufficient job. The Union provides an excellent place for students to cultivate numerous interests outside of academics. As social vice-president, it will be my job to provide as many of these interests as possible. Your support is appreciated. Vote Frank Hobart for Union social vice-president on Jan. 15.

David Stout

On Tuesday, Jan. 15, there will be a number of campus-wide elections held, among these the post of Union Board vice-president. The vice-president must be diligent and responsible, aware of campus needs, and above all, willing to make a commitment to the school. This commitment arises from a genuine need to involve members of the campus in those activities which reside outside the curricular realm. I believe I have the experience and desire necessary to accomplish these goals. For the past year, I have acted as social chairman for the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. Within this capacity, I have had to arrange, schedule, and set up events, and otherwise assume responsibility for the many parties, bands, and other social activities which have been deemed necessary toward the promulgation and continuation of fun. I see my work for the fraternity as a microcosm of what my job will consist of should I be elected on Tuesday.

The role of the vice-president as I see it is twofold: to work with the president in successfully appointing chairpersons for the various Union committees, and to work with these committees and to coordinate with Patterson Court in order to set up events for the entire student body. The only way to ensure a successful Union Board is to ensure wider campus involvement. Many of the people I have talked to were not aware that there is a Union Board; many did not know what it does. The Union Board is responsible for nearly all of the campus events which occur outside of Patterson Court, from fine films to campus dances, from speakers, plays, and musicals to the 900 Room. Step one: recruitment and motivation of people I feel would do a good job in the various positions available. As evidenced in the past, there is a need for increased student awareness and participation within the student power structure. In getting more people interested in the many facets of the Union and what it does for the campus, a successful Union and thus a successful series of campus events for the upcoming year will also be ensured. With an eager and competent group of people working together, the Union can and will accomplish an unlimited array of campus events, services, and functions.

One of my primary objectives is to preserve the status quo, that is to continue the excellent job which the Union has done in the past. Yet there is also great room for change and improvement. With the proper allocation of people, money, and consideration, coupled with a desire to provide excellent campus events for the students, the Union can improve campus participation and awareness, while at the same time provide a necessary, valuable campus service. I urge everyone to vote on Tuesday, Jan. 15, in an effort to place the entire campus’ choice in a position which requires responsibility, desire, and commitment. Thank you.