Sports Youth, Offense, Keep Wildcats In Southern Conference

By EDWIN PAGE

Hopes run high on the Davidson baseball diamond this spring and the reason is simple. The 1985 version of the Wildcats baseball team features an abundance of talent. In only his fourth year as head coach, George Greer has put together a team that can legitimately contend for the Southern Conference baseball crown. The core of last year’s 12-16-1 team returns nearly intact for the '85 campaign, and several key freshmen have been added to the roster.

If the Cats have proven anything thus far in the season, it is that they can hit the ball. The new scoreboard has been put to the test as the Cats, and unfortunately their opponents, have been crossing the plate with regularity. The Cats have also discovered the home run this year. Last year the team hit 18 dingers in 29 games. A five home run bonanza against Citadel last Sunday and four more against Wingate on Tuesday gave the Cats 24 in only 15 games.

There are two simple reasons for the sudden power surge—Alan Lewis and Bill Masse. These two freshmen have cracked the starting line-up and made their presence felt this year with 7 and 6 homers respectively to lead the team. Sophomore Dave Turgeon is pulling his weight in the line-up, hitting the ball at over a .400 pace and freshman Terry Rupp has been red-hot since joining the squad after spring break. Add last year’s top hitter junior Keith Helfant, the steady bats of juniors Tim Waters and Scott Weaver, and solid sophomores Dan Simonds and Dave Depaul, and it is easy to see why the team is so potent offensively this year.

The pitching is, according to Greer, “good enough for us to make the playoffs.” Weaver, last year’s top pitcher, has a 3-1 record and has established himself as the top starter. Freshman David Fitzgerald (2-1) has been impressive despite joining the team right after basketball season. Sophomore Steve Condon looks promising as the third starter, but has been inconsistent thus far. Sophomore Billy Waitsman will likely fill the fourth starter slot. The staff is much deeper than last year’s which should aid the Cats down the stretch in their drive to make the playoffs.

Although opponents have scored a lot of runs this season, Greer feels the pitching is not totally to blame. “We have made some key errors and then compounded them with bad pitches. We have to play consistent defense to win.”

Netters Are Kept Busy

By ANDY BARRON

Davidson's young men’s tennis team has undergone a type of baptism by fire. By Friday the season will be half over in terms of matches played to matches yet to be played. Needless to say, these guys have been playing a lot of tennis the last three weeks.

“A lot of schedule consists of teams coming south during spring break,” said coach Jeff Frank. “The problem with playing so much tennis in so little time is that we don’t have much practice time to correct problems that develop. This lack of practice hurts the freshmen especially since the upperclassmen adjust better.”

Any problems for the freshmen mean problems for the team. Half of the six singles positions belong to freshmen. Jim Thompson, Bill Young, and Ric Hodge are the third, fourth, and fifth singles players, respectively. All have played well considering the tremendous effort they have been asked to put forth. “Freshmen aren’t expected to succeed immediately,” said Frank, “but these guys (Thompson, Young, and Hodge) have done well so far. By the end of the season I feel they will all be in top form.”

As of Tuesday, Davidson is 9-5, a superior record considering the schedule has teams such as North Carolina, Penn State, and West Virginia. Penn State and West Virginia both had to come from behind to nip Davidson 5-4. Davidson's biggest win came over defending NAIA champion Atlantic Christian at 6-3.

“Our singles play has been strong,” said Frank. “We've had trouble getting proper teamwork in doubles. As people get used to playing together, our doubles play should once again become the strongest part of our team.”

The leaders in singles play

Wildcats Fall To Marshall, Finish

By PERRY MATTHEWS

At the beginning of spring break, while most students headed to the beach or ski resorts, the basketball team went to Asheville to play in the Southern Conference Tournament. Seeded seventh, Davidson fell 83-71 to a tough Marshall squad, who finished the regular season with an 18-12 record overall and second place in the conference, with a 12-4 record. Davidson finished the year with a 10-20 record.

The game started on an upbeat note for Davidson, as junior Ken Niebuhr scored the first points of the game. Marshall quickly retaliated and as Davidson brought the ball downcourt, Robert Eppes stole the ball and scored to give Marshall the lead. This play set the tone of the game. By the end of the game, Davidson had committed 29 turnovers and Marshall gave the ball away 21 times. Marshall slowly pulled away as Davidson, led by sophomore Chris Heineman’s 10~ young team. No seniors appear on the roster, and only four juniors are on the team. This puts a lot of responsibility on the shoulders of the freshmen and sophomores to carry the load. The team’s youth may have something to do with the 7-8 record so far as the Cats have dropped some winnable games. The team has also played a very busy schedule with one string of eight games in eight days, allowing the pitching staff little time to rest. Look for the Cats to improve as they move into the more sparsely populated area of their schedule and have a more rested pitching staff to work with.

Last weekend, the Cats dropped both games of a doubleheader to The Citadel on Saturday 4-1 and 11-9. Sunday, however, they rebounded to drill the visitors 16-1. Weaver pitched a strong game and helped his own cause by homering. Masse, however, was the hitting star with two round-trippers. On Tuesday, the Cats rolled over Wingate 25-7. Weaver and Masse each homered and Lewis matched Masse’s Sunday heroics by blasting two out and driving in six runs. Waitsman collected the win. The team travels to Furman for a very important series this weekend and next week they face UNCC and UNC-Chapel Hill.

Wildcat outfielder David DePaul practices throwing last Thurs. after the game with Pfeiffer was cancelled Tuesday and Thursday. These five games should show the team exactly where they stand. For those who come to the games, Greer promises “we will play some exciting baseball.”

By Tough Travel Schedule

have been junior Sedge Gray at number one, sophomore Hayes Dallas at number two, and senior John Hackett at number six. Gray currently has a 10-4 record and took UNC's number one player to three sets. Dallas is 9-4 and had match point against UNC's number two player. “Sedge has been crucial to our efforts so far this season,” said Frank. “If he keeps improving and beats some good people, he might get an NCAA bid. Hayes is still a week away from reaching top form. I think he'll be really tough about a week from now. Both Sedge and Hayes have been providing strong leadership.”

Davidson still has strong opponents such as UT-Chattanooga and Furman to overcome in the Southern Conference. Yet Davidson should be a factor in the conference tournament. “I think things are going very well this season,” said Dallas. “As long as everybody gives 100 percent on every point, we can compete with anyone. We need to be versatile and play well on all types of courts in all conditions.”

Sweep Tourney

The team swept the tournament beating Emory 6-3 in the finals. This season opener, according to Coach Caroline Brown, guarantees a promising shot at a bid to Nationals. The current top six players are junior All-American Caroline Barclay, freshman Amy McNelis, junior Lolly Johnson, sophomore Debbie Podolin, senior co-captain Tricia Ives, and sophomore Libby Sanders. The other co-captain is senior Sarah Patterson. Currently, the team record reads 6-1 and they look forward to the remaining 15 matches. Davidson hosts Furman on Friday 22 and then it’s back to Atlanta to play Georgia Tech on Sunday. This year nationals will be held at Haverford College outside of Philadelphia which, as coach added with a note of hope, is just a twenty-minute drive from the Liberty Bell.

7th In Conference

46-41. Marshall again built the lead to 14 points with 5:48 left in the game, but once again Davidson surged back and cut the lead to 5 with 1:30 left. Unfortunately, Marshall hit their foul shots down the stretch to preserve a victory. Inconsistent play and turnovers hurt the team. The Cats’ free-throw shooting was indicative of the teams’ play. Davidson finished the season with the third-best free throw percentage in the nation, but they hit only 68.2 percent (15-21) of their free throws against Marshall.

Despite a poor performance against Marshall, the team is optimistic about the future. The team escaped the conference's basement, the position pre-season gurus ordained for them. Spurred by this better-than-expected season and the return of the entire team, including freshmen all-conference team members Rucker and Himes, Davidson hopes to be a serious contender for the Southern Conference title next year.