Friday, January 18, 1985 / The Davidsonian 7

Symposium To Relate Painting, Art Forms To Photography

1985: Is It For You?

Right next to the current Vanity Fair we keep our Cosmo Girl's 1985 Bedside Astrologer. We read it religiously, what
else is there to do in our bathroom? Here's a little quiz to see if you've been reading yours as
closely as we have ours.

1. You’re a freewheeling Water Bearer girl (Cosmoese for Aquarius). According to your Planetary Prophecy, what does Adventure mean in
1985?
a) Going to Shoe City in Mooresville
b) Ordering the Café special without even looking at the menu
c) Filling out only half of your course registration form
d) Spending Easter at Macchu Picchu

By PEGGY PIEROTTI

Titled “Photography: A Technological Art Form,” the fourth of six Sloan symposia will examine the relationship of photography to the
other visual arts next Wednesday and Thursday, Jan. 23-24, here at Davidson. The purpose of the Sloan grants is to
examine the relationship between technology and the humanities.

Art Professor Larry Ligo proposed the idea of a symposium on photography because “photography has had a great deal of
impact on painting and printmaking. The technology to produce an image of the world has really influenced the way artists
view their role,” Ligo said. Yet Ligo realizes that the other visual arts have had similar influence on the development
of photography. “They played a mutual role,” Ligo said, “the artist’s way determined the way of the camera.”

Ligo emphasized the importance of photography as a means of communication as well as an art form. “The very way
we see the world is determined by photography. Take, for example, our views of Africa and Asia — we don’t
travel firsthand, we see pictures.” Ligo also mentioned how photography changed our conception of such things as war. Painters and
generals glorified war; photographers showed the dirtiness, and the death.

Ligo will give one of the symposium’s four lectures.

Wednesday, 23 January
3:05 p.m. “In the Service of . . .” : Photographic Technology and 19th Century Pictorial Art. Robert A. Sobieszek,
Director Photographic Collections, International Museum of Photography, George Eastman House.
4:30 p.m. Manet’s Frontispiece Etchings: An Artistic Manifesto Acknowledging the Influences of Baudelaire and Photography Upon His Work. Professor Larry
L. Ligo, Department of Art, Davidson College.

Thursday, 24 January
9 a.m. The Brave Discovery: A View of Avant-Garde Photography in the Early 20th Century. Professor Peter C. Bunnell, McAlpin
Professor of the History of Photography and Modern Art, Princeton University.
10:15 a.m. Life and Art: Thoughts on the Poetic Connections Within Choice, Chance, Influence and Invention. Emmet Gowin, Photographer, Professor
in the Visual Arts Program, Princeton University.

In his talk, “Manet’s Frontispiece Etchings: An Artistic Manifesto Acknowledging the Influences of Baudelaire and Photography Upon His Work,” Ligo
will show Manet’s use of photographic techniques. Ligo will speak at 4:30 p.m. Wednesday.

Director of Photographic Collections in the International Museum of Photography at the George Eastman House, Robert Sobieszek, will deliver the
opening lecture “‘In the Service of . . .”: Photographic Technology and 19th Century Pictorial Art”; he will discuss the
development of photography during the 19th century. Sobieszek will speak at 3 p.m. Wednesday.

The corresponding lecture on the development of photographic techniques in the 20th century will be presented at 9 a.m. Thursday
by Peter Bunnell, McAlpin Professor of the History of Photography and Modern Art at Princeton.

The final lecture will be given by internationally known photographer and Professor of Visual Arts at Princeton, Emmet Gowin. Gowin’s
talk, titled “Life and Art: Thoughts on the Poetic Connections Within Choice, Chance, Influence and Invention” will center on his
personal experiences.

All the talks are open free of charge to all Davidson faculty, staff and students. Ligo feels that it is
very important for us to recognize the influence of photography on art. He believes that “it is key in the
development of modern art. One should re-examine all of modernism in light of its photographic influence.”

The show’s exhibition, currently on display in the gallery, contains museum pieces from the George Eastman House, and Princeton, as
well as over 35 examples of Gowin’s work. According to Ligo, “the exhibition is a remarkably important opportunity for this
community to be exposed to truly key examples in the history of photography — original examples.” The exhibition is open
8 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily and is free of charge.Picchu... and having a very special tour with a lonely
llama herder

MORE OR LESS BY ANN MEADOR

2. As an Adventurous Twin girl (Gemini), your favorite Romantic Rendezvous is:
a) A bed
b) A big bed
c) A bedroom with a bed
d) The moonlit deck of a Chinese junk

3. What distinguishes the determined, stick-to-it Moon girl (Cancer)?
a) A birthday somewhere between June 22 and July 23
b) That crazy lunar humor and the sexiest, throatiest laugh in the entire zodiac!

4. What will happen to the Earthy Bull girl (Taurus) on July 2?
a) She will eat some food
b) She will get something in the mail
c) Pluto will prompt an enjoyable mini-spending spree, and she will buy sheer caftans in brilliant turquoise and royal blue,
and a startlingly sexy maillot in slinky black

5. A hot-blooded, tempestuous Scorpio lends you — a lighthearted Libra — his Humanities notes. You:
a) Xerox them.
b) Check to see what he made on his last Humes paper, then Xerox them.
c) Flee before his sexual prowess holds you prisoner in a dark romance.

Scoring Your Performance
For every correct answer (your psychic innards tell you which are correct) give yourself two points,
9-12: You will be Jeane Dixon in your next incarnation.
5-8: Your middle name is Jeane Dixon.
0-4: Who is Jeane Dixon?

Eight Top College Bowl Teams To Begin Playoffs
By TIM WAPLES

The preliminaries are over. Only the hardiest eight of the original 24 remain. All those who spent the season saying,
“I know that,” will now have to watch those who beat them out all season. But perhaps those slightly timid
teams will breathe a sigh of relief when they see their first playoff game. It’s going to be ugly out
there.

The eight teams which have made the playoffs are the top-two finishers in each of the four divisions. Special credit
must go to the Buzz Aldrins and I Phelta Thi, the only teams to survive the regular season undefeated. However,
the Catatonics have not lost a head-to-head match, and no other surviving team has lost more than one.

Aside from the three already-mentioned teams, playoff spots go to Les Idiots Savants, Wrong Stuff, Get Out of the Way,
Skeetshooters, and the Thundering Amoebi. The Amoebi made the playoffs in typical fashion. After posting a 4-1 record, the Amoebi
had to count on Les Idiots to beat Relentless Picnic. The Idiots’ win put the three teams at 4-1, but
in the total points tiebreaker, the Idiots and the Amoebi will advance.

The game itself, the last of the regular season, was an epic confrontation. The Idiots came ready to play, while
the Picnic came ready to picnic, complete with fried chicken catered by Mooresville’s own What-A-Burger. This culinary edge wins for
the Picnic an important official award: The First Annual Team Personality Award, nicknamed the “Boyshot,” after the immortal team of
two years ago led by Norwood Smith and Stan Hynds. The award did not balance the 325-60 margin in favor
of the Idiots, but the Picnic proved that it’s how you play the game.

Another heroic effort occurred in the matchup between I Phelta Thi and Elvis, Beat, Etc. Sophomore Steve Mank, abandoned by
his teammates, banded together a group of similar reprobates and scored a moral victory, 350-45.

Two titanic clashes occurred Monday between teams that had already clinched playoff spots. Senior Kirk Kirkpatrick led his Wrong Stuff
squad to a 345-200 upset win over previously top-ranked Get Out of the Way. And, despite a determined effort by
Jeff Gregory and the rest of the Skeetshooters, Buzz Aldrins posted a 270-165 victory based on strong all-around teamwork and
Dan Murrey’s fine play.

With these victories, Wrong Stuff and Buzz Aldrins clinched division titles, along with the Idiots and Thi. These four will
have the top seeds in the upcoming playoffs. The eight finalists will tangle in a double-elimination tournament to begin next
week.

Even though fewer teams are now involved, things are not slowing down in the Green room. Along with playoff coverage,
look for a feature on this year's seniors’ farewell to College Bowl. More fun can be found in the good
ol’ College Bowl corner. And the varsity team swings into action Feb. 16 in Johnson City, Tenn. in its regional
tournament. Before then, tryouts for the varsity team will also take place. An exciting month of College Bowl is on
the way.
