**Opinions | The Davidsonian | Friday, March 22, 1985: Huie Defends Concert Committee, Smith Show**

Scott Huie

Trying to squelch a rumor, the saying goes, is like trying to unring a bell. Nevertheless, I must stop the
bell from ringing and set the record straight. In his article “How Should the Union Spend Concert Funds?” in the
last edition of The Davidsonian, Steven White questioned the justification for the Union Concert Committee’s bringing a Contemporary Christian artist,
Michael W. Smith, to perform at Davidson College. I remained silent only to let the concert itself silence the critics.
But since all the critics did not attend, I shall now speak.

Overall, the show was one of the best this school has ever seen. Many people remember last spring's Thompson Twins
concert as tops, but in many respects, Smith's show surpassed it. Not since Count Basie played here some ten years
ago has a Davidson concert sold out. Smith’s concert sold out. Not since Count Basie played here has a Davidson
concert made a profit. Smith’s concert made a profit. Furthermore, never before have so many students been so involved in
the promotion and the production of a concert. To all those volunteers, I tip my hat and say thanks.

The band also thought it was a great show. From Smith all the way down to the keyboard roadie, the
whole organization was a pleasure to work with. They loved playing here and commended our efforts in making their first
stop on the tour a flawless production. On his glossy that now hangs in the Union Concert Archives, Smith wrote,
“To Davidson, it was the best!” and he meant it. They even got a kick out of Steven Mank’s preview
of the concert, which mistakenly stated that Smith was married to Amy Grant and that she was “staying home with
their newborn son.”

In light of such a successful concert, therefore, how can White challenge the decision to bring this show to Davidson?
He writes, “The initial fee for such a show could subtract a very significant amount of money from the concert
budget.” Wrong. Granted, this was an expensive show, but it definitely was not a financial risk, and prior to signing
the contract, I made sure the concert would not lose much, if any, money. First, I found out what other
promoters were paying; second, I did some market research in metropolitan Charlotte; and third, I tested Davidson's interest. What I
found was that our deal was the best on the tour, that this area was a booming market for this
music, and that a large minority of Davidson students were absolutely thrilled at the prospects of having Smith perform here.
Next, the concert committee met and overwhelmingly supported the idea. Then, after six weeks of deliberation, the Union Board also
approved having the concert. Only then did we sign the contract. White’s argument that “the Union concert people might have
been more careful and considerate with student money” is unfounded.

Around 200 Davidson students attended the show, but about half of those are long-time fans of Smith, and for them,
the concert was one of the biggest and most exciting events during their years at Davidson. Many of them told
me so. Consequently, this concert met the needs of a large minority of students, while at the same time it
made money for the school. Moreover, the purpose of the Union is not to entertain the majority of the students
with every event. That is why we have the Artist Series, Chamber Music events, and Fine Films. The Union seeks
to accommodate the diverse interests of the student body, and this concert has been a part of that process.

Another benefit of this concert was that it did bring in so many outsiders, particularly high school students. Exposing hundreds
of students to the school in such a positive manner is excellent public relations. In his article, White questions, “Above
all, are we simply getting this band because of certain connections?” Yes, that link is my brother, John (Davidson Class
of ’78), vice president of Frontier Booking in New York, who is also the same connection who brought us such
bands as the Police, the Thompson Twins, the Fixx, REM, the Bangles, the Producers, and Steel Pulse. Davidson has become
famous for getting artists on the verge of breaking into the big-time, and John rightly advised me that Smith would
fit into that tradition.

This concert also represented a step into a progressive form of music. Just read the Show Business article in last
week's Time magazine (Clarke, Gerald. “New Lyrics for the Devil's Music,” p. 60). Here's an excerpt: These new entertainers create
sounds that have never been heard in churches, sounds that range from Stryper’s heavy beat to Michael Card's folk, from
Undercover’s punk rock to the mellow pop of Amy Grant. Indistinguishable—except for their lyrics—from their secular counterparts, these performers represent
one of the most interesting, fastest-growing trends in the music world: Contemporary Christian music.

Throughout the performance, Smith spoke of love and forgiveness. He shouted, “We're gonna rock for Jesus,” and he even recited
Psalm 139 during a break. A Davidson student may be repulsed by these actions. He may think that they are
overindulgent in proselytism or reflect something he does not wish to believe in. Nevertheless, that person needs to recognize Davidson's
heterogeneity. Some students here are Christians and subscribe to the school’s Statement of Purpose, which states, “Davidson recognizes God as
the source of all truth. As a college committed to the historic Christian faith, it sees Jesus Christ...As the central
fact of history, giving purpose, order, and value to the whole life.” Therefore, what's wrong with a contemporary Christian musician
performing at a liberal arts college with a strong Christian heritage, especially when many students see a need for such
music? Every song has a message, be it sex, drugs, minimalism, gay rights, or Christianity. A reggae group, Awareness Art
Ensemble, will play at the Spring Follies concert next month, and the central theme of reggae music is that Haile
Selassie is the Messiah, yet no one will likely raise a stink about that. But throw in love, forgiveness, and
Jesus, and the roof comes tumbling down. U2, one of the biggest pop groups around, plays Christian music and even
has prayer sessions before each concert, but no one would challenge our bringing them here. Moreover, being a Christian is
not a prerequisite for attending or enjoying a Christian concert. After all, one doesn’t have to be a Rastafarian to
enjoy reggae music or gay to enjoy a Frankie Goes to Hollywood concert. Michael W. Smith and Kathy Troccoli both
put on awesome shows. They didn’t try to knock people over the head with Bibles or condemn non-Christians to Hell.
They simply left Davidson that night leaving 1200 concert-goers thoroughly entertained and feeling good inside. What was a great concert
became even better when, four nights later on national television, Smith won the Grammy award for Best Male Vocalist in
Gospel Music. We got the best in the business, made a profit for the school, and served the interests of
a large minority of students. What's wrong with that? Huie is a senior political science major from Atlanta, GA.

Anti-Abortionist Argues Christian Viewpoint
Karl Lorentz

To a child, pregnancy is an intriguing and awesome process, and children behold enlarged wombs with wonder. The scientific mind
regards pregnancy as the “concatenation of biological macromolecules.” Does the enlightened knowledge of the scientist necessitate casting off the reverence
of the child? What is a fetus: the mere product of a chemical reaction or a human life with intrinsic
value? The abortion issue rests totally on the preceding question. If a fetus is a human being, abortion is murder.
Few people would attempt to justify murder; therefore, defenses of abortion inevitably posit that the fetus is at some point
not as fully human as you and I. If a human fetus is allowed to develop, it will reach a
point where all people will consider it fully human. A point must be designated at which the fetus is considered
human. Such designations make the humanity of some adults equally suspect. Why is one stage of development more human than
another? Is it the appearance of a fetus that makes its humanity suspect? Some defenders of abortion support abortions because
the fetus cannot feel pain or survive outside the womb. Brain development is a handy tool for determining humanness. All
life is in development, and all stages, from the fertilized egg to death, are stages in life and growth. These
judgments are not quantitative, they cannot demonstrate that a fetus is any less of a human life. Standards for determining
the humanity of a fetus are inevitably qualitative, and if we question the full humanity of a fetus because of
qualitative distinctions, we must begin questioning the humanity of our neighbors. If qualitative distinctions are employed to establish full humanity,
the distinctions lead us to alarming and enlightening conclusions. If brain development makes a human, Mongoloids and the severely retarded
are that much less human. If appearance makes a man less than human, Mongoloids with leprosy and elephantiasis had better
beware. To choose whether or not to abort a fetus is to choose whether or not to take a human
life, and taking life is never an acceptable option. As a Christian, I believe human life has intrinsic worth. God
created humanity and demonstrated His love for all people by sending His Son. It is incredible that rapists, Mongoloids, Communists,
and students are all objects of His love. He also loves the unborn child and the incapacitated victim of senility.
What are the alternatives to abortion? Where can the mother of an unwanted child turn to help? There are no
easy alternatives. Adoption cannot resolve all situations. A career may be postponed. A college education may be difficult to secure.
Middle-class families may have to make financial adjustments to accommodate an extra family member. The financial burdens are exponentially greater
for the poor household. The self-sacrifice necessary to love the child of a rape may seem impossible to muster, but
when the forgiveness of Christ has been planted in a life, it becomes possible. No option is easy. It is
wrong that the total responsibility to raise the unwanted child will be laid on the mother’s back. Fathers bear equal
responsibility, but shirk it easily. Churches and service organizations must step in to provide assistance in raising the child. The
government must not shirk its duty to act as an agent for mitigating poverty. Compassionate alternatives to abortion must be
offered. These social solutions will inevitably be imperfect, and ultimately the responsibility to act falls on individuals. The alternatives to
abortion are not ideal. However, legally legitimized murder is not an answer to social and personal crises. The alternative to
abortion is hope, human life. Life always offers hope, and the tangible possibility of accepting Christ's hope makes life immeasurably
precious. Lorentz is a junior English major from Marietta, GA.
