4 Friday, January 25, 1985 / The Davidsonian

War College Sends Policymakers Here
(continued from page 1)

Hansen and panel members emphasized that their comments were only personal opinions and did not represent the view of the Army or the government. The panel is chosen from the 260 students of the War College who themselves compose the top 3 to 4 percent of officers of their rank and age. They are, Major David Hill of the ROTC department explained, “the cream of the crop. Their experience and credentials are truly impressive.” All are lieutenant colonels awaiting promotion to full colonel after their graduation from the one-year college.

The panel’s response to questions rested on its members’ diverse backgrounds and areas of interest. LTC Jose Muratti, for instance, was the Military Aid to both President Carter and President Reagan, and he has assisted in forming government policy to El Salvador. LTC Jack W. McGuiness has commanded intelligence, air assault, and special forces units in Southeast Asia and has participated in rescue operations of Americans in North Vietnamese POW camps.

SPE Faces Opposition
(continued from page 1)

social house. “This college can accommodate alternatives. And I think the CCRL backed that up by agreeing in principle to allow social houses on the Court.” Social houses, many fear, would jeopardize other eating houses on the Court. A social house would require less commitment and financial burden than eating houses do. Though SPE has agreed to abide by Self-Selection if it returns to campus, members of the CCRL feel criteria would have to be established which would govern how a social house would operate under Self-Selection.

Some have asserted that SPE has gained an unfair rush advantage by eating at the Commons where freshmen are required to eat. In the two years SPE members have eaten at the Commons, their pledge classes have increased noticeably: last year 34 freshmen pledged SPE compared to approximately 18 the year before. Thirty freshmen have pledged this year. Potentially, the CCRL feels, with more upperclassmen associated with fraternities eating at the Commons, the rules of Self-Selection would be harder to enforce, and freshmen may face more pressure from rush.

Still, the two empty houses on Patterson Court, others say, ought to be granted to those groups who wish to use them. As a result of campus groups wanting to open social houses on the Court, the CCRL may have to examine the viability of current houses, which may experience declining membership. A central question remains: would permitting social houses on Patterson Court meet a possibly growing preference for social houses or threaten Davidson’s tradition of small-group dining?

Women’s Eating House
(continued from page 1)

Clark said the group would like to get the house which formerly belonged to ATO. Terry said the new house, if approved, would not receive as much money as Warner Hall did when it opened in 1982. Clark noted that the ATO house would already be mostly furnished.

Clark has met with College Business Manager Bob Currie to discuss the financial aspects of a new house. Currie told her that a new house would need 60 members to be financially stable. Clark has also been in touch with Jane Alexanian '84 and Connie Kyle '83 who helped draw up the proposal for Warner Hall in 1982. “People seem to be enthusiastic about the possibility of a new house,” Clark said. She added that members of Rusk and Warner Hall have been very supportive of the idea.

Warner Hall president Jean Shepherd said waiting lists at both women’s eating houses demonstrate the need for a new house. “I wish them luck,” she said. She said forming a new eating house “is a lot of work, but we’ll be glad to help if we’re needed.”

Student Watch Begun
(continued from page 1)

procedures rape victims should follow. RAPE also announcedIt has instituted a Student Watch system in which volunteer students will patrol the campus between 10 p.m. and 1:30 a.m. Seniors Bill Warner and Kirk Gavel are heading the watch, said RAPE chairperson Melissa McLemore. McLemore said a system of shifts totaling eight hours per month has been set up for volunteers. Students on duty will wear orange or yellow armbands and scout areas such as perimeter houses, the gym, the track, second Chambers, and the DCPC Lounge, as well as Patterson Court. She has asked Patterson Court Council President Murray Simpson to send escorts to court parties, she added. McLemore emphasized that the Student Watch is not a police force. “You are not to take matters into your own hands... you are a deterrent, not the police,” she told a group of volunteers at a Sentelle dorm meeting Tuesday night. In addition, RAPE has set up a phone line through which a committee member can be reached at any time. McLemore said a rape victim can call 331-5090, leave her first name and the phone number from which she is calling. The committee member on duty will be notified by beeper, she said, and return the call.

Other panel members were LTC Louis M. Jackson of the Chemical Corps; LTC James H. P. Kelsey, military intelligence; and LTC Dennis P. McQuirk, U.S. Air Force. Discussions at the 900 Room presentation centered on nuclear arms and U.S. involvement in Central America. Questioned about the feasibility of a civil defense system, Jackson said although the Federal Emergency Management Agency has contingency evacuation plans, “we really don’t have a civil defense system.” Addressing the likelihood of a nuclear war, McQuirk commented that, “A nuclear exchange between the U.S.S.R. and the United States is the least likely scenario I can think of... [However] there is an increasing probability of some sort of nuclear incident by a terrorist organization.” Muratti explained that, as a policy writer, the possible invasion of Nicaragua “was never one of the options discussed... at least not by the Department of Defense.” The officers showed during informal discussions that they were not always in agreement among themselves with government policy. Muratti argued, for instance, that the U.S. support of the contras in Nicaragua was doing more harm than good. Two other frequent points of contention were the feasibility of the MX missile system and the conditions of nuclear arms treaties with the Soviet Union. There seemed to be a consensus, however, that a strong military provides the greatest deterrent to war. Ortmayer laid the groundwork for the panel’s visit over a year ago, but a two- to three-year advance reservation is normally required because of the high demand for the panel. He views the army visit “as part of a continuing dialogue on national security issues based on as broad a spectrum as possible.”

UNITED CAROLINA BANK
Davidson 892-7815
I-77 at Hwy 73 Cornelius/Lake 137 N. Main St. Norman 892-7805

KINGS PRODUCTIONS
CAROWINDS Midway Music Hall
Sunday, January 27; 12-4 PM
Technician Interviews will be held at North Carolina School of the Arts in the Workplace—Dance Studio #615 on Saturday, February 2 from 1-3 PM; and at Carowinds in the Midway Music Hall on Sunday, February 3 from 1-4 PM.
Singers * Dancers * Instrumentalists
Technicians * Variety Performers
$190-$270/week traveling over 250 miles to the park.
Cincinnati, Ohio 45219
One round trip airfare will be paid to hired performers
Contact: Entertainment Department, Carowinds, PO Box 240516, Charlotte, N.C. 28224
©Copyright 1984, Kings Productions, 1932 Highland Avenue,
KINGS ISLAND * KINGS DOMINION * CANADA'S WONDERLAND * CAROWINDS * GREAT AMERICA * HANNA BARBERA LAND

BE THERE
Davidson Only Goes Uptown Once A Year
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12
“Uptown with the House of Hunan”
Celebrating The Chinese New Year
VAIL COMMONS
BE THERE
BE THERE