Opinions The Davidsonian Thursday, December 12, 1985

Existence is just another extended metaphor
Anthony Gristina

As I was sitting in my Art History class on a typical Wednesday morning, I was suddenly overwhelmed with a lugubrious sense of futility. The source of this discomfort was not immediately nor directly apparent. It was a subtle, almost subconscious ache that seemed to have originated not out of the setting, which in its day-to-day monotony had been dismissed into the irrelevant, but rather it was provoked from a drastic attitude change. For the first time in my life, I was appreciating the simple concept of learning. Of course, throughout my previous academic career, I had deluded myself with notions of being an intellectual, but my satisfaction and victory were felt only after I had received the grade, the label, the misconception, the “A” no doubt. However, this view was now discarded like so many other superficial and sophomoric attitudes of my youth. Maturity had led me to believe that learning was an end in itself and not a hedonistic mean. Art for Art was my conclusion, but ironically with this revelation, there was discomfort. I was becoming a true aesthete, but with this new perspective of life involving the cult of knowledge, I realized one limitation which previously had been so overlooked, so far away, and now so real. Death was my enemy, mortality my foe. Existence was a race with time because the goal that I had set for myself had no limits and therefore satisfaction became a word whose meaning will elude me for the rest of my life. The satisfaction does not include the non-intellectual pleasures of life which admittedly I do indulge in, but their numbing powers are diminishing. My quest for this transcendental satisfaction has forced me to rationalize my fear of death, an endeavor that I have procrastinated since being introduced to it. The fear of death, while present in everyone, is more acute in the true intellectual because with death comes the sense of loss as well as incompleteness. A person whose goal is wealth only loses his money at death provided that he lacks the spiritual essence to maintain his hedonistic attitude throughout his life. Those people in search of the intangible facets of life possessed with the insatiable desire for knowledge find themselves in their old age begging for more time to complete what indirectly is their own selves. It is not hard to see why man created the concept of the afterlife or God for that matter because few people can accept death as an endpoint, a termination. God is a personification of man’s desire for immortality, more specifically perpetual experience and consequent learning, and therefore an answer to the inevitable, but not a logical one. The afterlife may take the D out of death, but it is the easy way out. The true student of knowledge considers death to be the simple end, a fade into black. Imagine sitting in your room and suddenly you are blinded, then your hearing escapes you and subsequently you lose all your senses. With no inputs, there can be no outputs, and you cease to think in this state of permanent amnesia. Certainly, Descartes would agree that the converse is valid, I don’t think, therefore I am not. The only pain involved with death is the anticipation of it and the loneliness of those you leave behind. “Therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls, it tolls for thee” as our metaphysical friend Jon Donne so articulately concluded.

It requires a complex mentality to conceive of non-existence, but once it is accepted the fear of death becomes a tool to explore with, rather than an issue to be avoided and buffered with faith. Although life may appear futile from this view, one must realize that the significance of life is what you contribute to the society that fate erases you from. Your presence may be perpetuated in your children, your students, or your profession and therefore even though your space in society is blank in appearance it is seething with emotions, which are immortal. Even though satisfaction is as obscure as perfection, partial fulfillment can be achieved through one’s contributions to society. The individual must integrate the desire to perfect himself with a philanthropic goal. Once death asserts itself, it makes no personal difference what you have done. I am only suggesting ways to give yourself value during your lifetime. Learning and the progressive immortality of your ideas are the only real purpose of the redundant ambiguity commonly known as human existence. I must warn the reader that this view is subject to change and modification because at age 19 I do not pretend to hold the meaning of life in my naive and relatively ignorant mind. I am just beginning.

Gristina is a sophomore from Winston Salem, N.C.

God, superstition and the Black Mamba
Ellen Oerter

Black mamba, quickest poisonous snake in the world. The name sends shivers down one’s spine. Beady eyes, willing to bite.

A black mamba was found in the shower the day I arrived in Shimba Hills, Kenya. The people of that area live constantly in danger of encountering such a snake. Even inside the danger still exists because mud walls and palm leaf roofs don’t keep the snakes out. The people of the region all seem to believe in God. He varies in description and often plays no partin their lives, but doubt in the existence of God is rarely or never expressed. Why do we Americans so frequently doubt the existence of God when these people do not? I have a hypothesis. When comparing the Kenyan and American cultures, the life of most Kenyans is much more greatly influenced by its natural surroundings. The amount of rain often directly regulates water supply. Sunshine determines how much food there is to eat out of the garden. Lizards and bugs, and sometimes safari ants, freely enter and exit the house. As the people traverse the countryside on foot, various creatures and wonderful flowers are spotted. 

The hypothesis which I have formed is that God’s existence is plain to people of this lifestyle as a result of their close involvement with nature, and they recognize it as His creation. In our American culture, we cover the ground with asphalt, block out the sky with roofs, and the trees with walls which belong to the building in which we spend the majority of our time. We buy our food dead at the supermarket. We change the weather within our homes and then travel in four-wheeled isolation whenever we venture out. Sometimes we notice the squirrels and birds, but it is rare that they ever come close enough to involve us. The second part of my hypothesis is that it is possible to block out the evidence that God exists. Americans have done this structurally in many places, and therefore commonly doubt the existence of God.

The blocks we build have some side effects. We become proud to have control. With music available in almost every situation, we are in control of the sounds around us. With antiperspirant, we control the amount we sweat. Fast transportation allows quick change of environment. Modern construction equipment creates quick change of scenery. We feel safe. We are proud to have made ourselves secure. Part three of my hypothesis is that this pride in being able to control our environment inhibits the admission of what God himself has done. Certainly, we Americans have safety from the black mamba. It is thousands of miles away and it will not strike us. As we become increasingly isolated from the beauty, impressiveness, and potential danger of nature, however, it would be wise to consider that while we can deny God, we probably cannot isolate ourselves from him.

I invite you to attend VCF's seminar entitled: “Examining the Evidence: Promises Fulfilled by the Messiah" beginning Jan. 16 to hear and discuss the Biblical account of God's involvement with humankind.

Timothy Brown

November 24, 1985. What did it bring to you? The beginning of a holiday much needed, much deserved; the incipience of Christmas hustle and bustle; or just a normal Sunday spent with loved ones all enjoying relaxation, lethargy. What did it bring to William F. Buckley? His turning 60. Yup! It’s hard to believe. And as James J. Kilpatrick remarks, “Given his zest for life, he ought to be good for 60 more.” With the 30th anniversary of “National Review” early this month, as soon as Will sees off his well-wishers he'll again hear niceties about his contributions and his attributes. What contributions? and What attributes? Granted Barry Goldwater, Ronald Reagan, Russell Kirk, George Will and all their likes have helped promote conservative philosophy. But no voice has been as likely as Will’s — expressed through his magazine, lectures, twenty or more books, columns, and “Firing Line.” He is a fine sailor, pilot, navigator, a fine shot with a pistol, a harpsichord player (preferring to strum away to Bach), and arguably the finest catch-as-catch-can debater. Anything worth reading he’s read and remembered. A fine humorist: he once admitted the only reason he wrote for “Playboy” was so that he might communicate with his son — then 17. And above all he’s a fine writer, stylist (this attribute of his I admire most). And oh what prolixity.

Though seemingly a demigod, he has his faults. (1) His logic, let's face it, is sometimes not the best. He recently opined a uniform tax rate is equitable to the poor — without taking into account that the poor man’s satisfaction decreases more when his dollar is taxed away than does a rich man’s when his is taxed. In another article, he argued for a balanced budget amendment. Did he mention that one can’t legislate good behavior? Explain how it would be enforced or that it might make fiscal policy procyclical and unstabilizing? Nah... (2) His peacock vocabulary of unfamiliar words. These beauties, belonging to sesquipedalian lexicology, I found in two of his articles chosen at random: hebdomadal, lachrymose, prolixity. And Will, why do you use these words? His reply: Well... everyone ought to be acquainted with “prolixity” at some time or other. An okay idea — until the reader finds himself spending as much time in the Oxford English Dictionary as he does in Will's writing.

Last summer Will was arguing away with a liberal ideologue on the tube. And before the commercial break, Will quipped to Ted Koppel, "Ted, you'd better make this commercial a quickie so that my elderly companion (he was 65) might not fall asleep." To a man with character of such sheer gale force, I send my belated birthday wish. I do hope you enjoyed your natal day, and I do hope you enjoy your five years before you are 65, too!