Opinions Friday, May 3, 1985

Lottery System Questioned
Lloyd Chapin and Joe Simpson

“Upperclass men and women participate in a yearly lottery to select rooms in any one of the nine dormitories or
eleven perimeter houses.” These words from the 1984-85 Davidson catalog have become an enigma for many Davidson students. It seems
the fairness implied by the lottery system has fallen prey to the whimsical desires of Dr. Bolding.

For example, one group of rising seniors wished to live in either Irwin or Knox. As rising seniors, they possessed
relatively low numbers. Thus, since Knox and Irwin are somewhat unpopular, their choice was nearly assured. Unfortunately, it was determined
that other students, most of them sophomores, had priority over these men. The reason for this determination is unknown, but
it could not possibly be because these rising seniors possessed numbers greater than all of the new occupants of Irwin
and Knox.

In another instance, a pair of rising juniors, having been forced off campus last year, were allowed to draw senior
numbers. Strangely, these men also took a back seat to the new sophomore occupants. The reason for this is also
undetermined. Obviously, the wishes of Dr. Bolding take priority over the laws of mathematics.

An unfortunate side effect of this numerical farce has been the movement of students into Knox and Irwin who did
not wish to reside there. If Dr. Bolding has attempted to discriminate against a particular group, then he has failed.
His efforts have cut two ways, hurting both those he wishes to discriminate against and those he does not hold
in disfavor.

The preceding events raise two important questions. First, if Dr. Bolding believes there are groups of undesirable students, does he
have the right to discriminate against them? Second, is it honorable for the lottery to be presented as a just
and fair device when it, in fact, does not operate as such? We believe the answer is a resounding “No.”

There are several reasons for our belief. First, how does Dr. Bolding determine undesirability? Is it determined by behavior in
the past which may have been irresponsible (i.e., damage to halls or the campus)? We certainly hope not, for it
is not Dr. Bolding’s job to enforce the Code of Responsibility. Second, is undesirability determined by one's eating house affiliation?
Again, we hope not, for discrimination based on eating house status is simply discrimination based on friendship. Dr. Bolding certainly
does not possess the right to dictate friendships.

Perhaps the most disturbing aspect of the discriminatory lottery is its deception. Dr. Bolding’s policy does not seem to operate
under the review of anyone except himself. Unfortunately, the students, those who are affected, are at his mercy and are
unable to review his work in turn. Furthermore, Dr. Bolding’s lottery does not operate as presented to the student body.
This discrepancy stands in stark contrast to the honor system Davidson espouses. We request that the wrongdoing which occurred in
this most recent lottery be rectified and that a firm housing policy be established prior to next year’s lottery.

The following is a list of further inconsistencies in the policies of the Housing Office regarding room lottery. From a
pamphlet distributed by the Housing Office: “Following the lottery, the numbers...

President Needs Selective Veto
Tim Brown

Let me first state that I have received some arguments concerning this topic from the writings of Judith A. Best.
The President needs an item veto which would allow the President to pick and choose among the elements of a
bill. Currently, the President must veto all or none of a bill's items.

True, the President would stand to gain power from the item veto. Opposition to the item veto focuses on this
very point. Concerning the balance of power, James Madison states, “In framing government, the great difficulty lies in this: you
must first enable the government to control the governed, and in the next place oblige it to control itself." Congress
could override the item veto with a two-thirds vote as it does with the President's current veto. But the balance
of power would not be skewed in Congress’ favor. Overriding the item veto would mean for Congress a great increase
in lobbying and an increase in time spent on a bill.

There is one clear benefit with the item veto: it could persuade Congress to use more sober judgment in making
proposals because it increases Congress’ anticipation of the veto. The item veto would deter Congress from attaching special-interest items and
non-germane amendments to a vital bill. Had the President had an item veto, I doubt seriously that Congress would have
obstructively combined the farm subsidy bill with the Ethiopian relief bill.

Brown is a freshman from Charlotte, NC and is opinions editor of The Davidsonian.will be compiled and the lowest average
will win first choice of available units.” (Although this comes under the heading of “Perimeter Houses,” it is generally accepted
as the policy for all housing.)

—Despite this policy, students with higher numbers were assigned rooms they did not request (in at least one case the
dorm assigned was specifically stipulated against).

—Students with lower numbers than the above and requesting the dorms to which the above were assigned, were assigned rooms
not of their preference (specifically, rising juniors and seniors requesting Knox or Irwin were displaced in favor of sophomores not
requesting these dorms).

Also from the lottery pamphlet: “After lottery, room swaps and exchanges will be accepted until May 10."

—Dr. Bolding has refused to allow non-senior SAE's wanting Irwin or Knox to switch with students assigned to Irwin and
Knox who are more than willing to switch.

“Clusters will be broken if necessary, but will be kept as near to each other as possible.”

—A cluster of 10 rising sophomores (5 rooms requested) with good numbers (983 as an average for the 10 with
pairs as low as 850’s average) were placed on the waiting list.

—Cluster was not broken according to policy.

New policy this year to limit the number of students from any one social group occupying a dorm, floor, or
hall.

—There was no mention of this new policy previous to the lottery.

—The entire east wing of first Irwin has been assigned to SAE's.

—Five out of seven rooms on the north side of first Sentelle are assigned to KA’s.

—Five of twelve double rooms on second Sentelle are assigned to SPE’s.

—Ten KA’s have been assigned rooms on first Knox.

Chapin is a sophomore economics major and Simpson is a sophomore pre-med major.

Die-In Tried To Dispel Apathy

Gordon Watkins

James Lewis, I am a member of the Davidson Peace Coalition, and I feel that I must respond to your
Letter to the Editor (April 26, 1985). You labelled the die-in “archaic.” Please tell me: is this “archaic” die-in worse
than apathy? Too many Davidson students ridicule anything that is different, that might shake their “everything's okay” attitude about the
world. Yes, we in the Peace Coalition know the year is not 1965. James, do you think we are protesting
for the hell of it?

In Nicaragua, American money has supported the contras who destroy government hospitals and schools, kill civilians and soldiers alike, and
wreak havoc on the Nicaraguan economy. While the Sandinista government has made some mistakes, they have increasingly met the basic
needs of the people: literacy and rural healthcare have both increased. Attacks by the contras have severely limited the effectiveness
of these programs.

Who are the contras—the so-called “freedom fighters?” While some are disaffected Sandinistas or Indians, many of the contra leaders are
former National Guardsmen. Under the rule of the Somoza family, the National Guard did not allow democracy. The record of
their human rights abuses is there for anyone to look up.

This brings me back to my main point. The die-in was an attempt to wake the Davidson students from their
apathy. After all, people are dying in Nicaragua. If we fund the contras, we are responsible for their actions. Are
their actions good? Before anyone, especially a college student, forms an opinion on such an important topic as the war
in Central America, he or she should examine arguments for and against a particular stand. I challenge all Davidson students
to research this issue and to spend a couple of hours reading about Central America. Then write your Congressman. And
James, before you accuse the Peace Coalition of being “nostalgic,” re-examine your own views. Your belief that America should have
the right to determine the governments of Latin American nations is a throwback to the Roosevelt Corollary of 1904.

Watkins is a sophomore economics major from Lynchburg, VA.

The Davidsonian's “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions
articles on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community. We adhere to these guidelines:

1) We require that all articles be in our hands at 7 p.m. Monday.

2) We accept typed articles and those written legibly, double-spaced.

3) We require that opinions be signed. We will print unsigned articles only if compelling reason exists for withholding the
author's name, and the author is known to either the editor or executive editor.

4) We will not edit opinions for style or content but we reserve the right to edit for rules of
common English. We will inform the author of substantial changes.

5) Since space for Opinions articles is limited, we reserve the right to select articles from those we receive for
publication. We will attempt to print any article we withhold from publication the next week.
