2 Friday, January 11, 1985 / The Davidsonian

NEWS SUMMARY

BSC Service To Honor Martin Luther King Jr.

The Black Student Coalition will sponsor a memorial service in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. at 4 p.m.
Sunday in the Lingle Chapel of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The candlelight service will feature a performance by the
Charlotte Contemporary Ensemble.

A civil rights leader born in Atlanta in 1929, Martin attracted national attention when he delivered his famous “I Have
a Dream” speech during the March on Washington in August 1963. Two years later he led a group of black
and white civil rights marchers on a 65-mile trek from Selma to Montgomery, Ala., to demand voting rights legislation.

King, who received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1964, was assassinated in Memphis, Tenn., in April 1968.

Following the memorial service, the BSC will accept donations to aid 1984 Davidson graduate Anne R. Elliott, president of the
BSC during 1982-83, who is currently teaching English in Kenya. Elliott is one of the 12 recent Davidson graduates teaching
in rural areas of the east African country.

Hall Counselor Selection Begins

All sophomores interested in applying for the position of hall counselor may pick up an application in the Dean’s office
or from seniors Hunter Roddey and Mary Griffin. The deadline for returning applications has been extended to 5 p.m. Tuesday.

Vladimir Sakharov To Speak Monday In Love

Dr. Vladimir Sakharov, a Soviet-trained diplomat who was a former KGB and CIA agent, will speak at 7 p.m. Monday
in Love Auditorium. His disillusionment with the KGB led him to become an agent for the United States. Sakharov, as
a young Soviet diplomat in Kuwait, aided in the ousting of Soviet Intelligence from Egypt. Sakharov’s diplomatic and intelligence assignments
put him at the heart of the KGB’s operations in the Middle East. He is one of the first in
the West to foresee Andropov’s ascendency. He is especially noted for his ability to anticipate international crises.

Dr. Sakharov, now a U.S. citizen, holds a Ph.D. in International Relations. His specialties include inter-Arab affairs, OPEC, International Law
& U.S.-Soviet relations. He is the author of the highly acclaimed “High Treason” and numerous articles on intelligence and the
New Soviet Elite.

Dean’s Office Reports Fall Honor Code Violations

The Dean of Students Office has announced several Honor Code and Code of Responsibilities violations from last term:

- There was one Honor violation for cheating. The student was suspended for two terms and the Dean of Students
handled the case.
- There were two honor violations involving property resulting in reparations of a work program.
- One Code of Responsibility Sec. I offense involving academic dishonesty resulted in the student losing credit for one term.
The Honor Council handled the case.
- There was one Honor Violation resulting in an acquittal.

There were no appeals to any of the decisions.

David Huie ’81 To Speak Here Next Week

David Huie ’81 will speak next Tuesday and Wednesday about his work with the International Rescue Committee in Lebanon and
Somalia from April 1982 to July 1984. He will speak on “The Other Side of the Lebanon Story: What the
Newspapers Didn't Say” Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room. An assistant administrator in two remote camps in the
Somalia Bush, Huie worked with Ethiopian refugees. He will talk about his work at the Center for SpecialStudies Luncheon at
1 p.m. on Tuesday. In Lebanon, he organized and operated a small hospital for Palestinian refugees in Israel-occupied southern Lebanon.
In his two years of refugee work, Huie contracted Malaria and Typhoid fever, lost two front teeth, and was beaten
by Israeli soldiers.

David was a Center graduate, an N.C. Fellow, and a soccer player at Davidson. He is the brother of senior
Scott Huie.

Committee Offers Foreign Study Scholarships

The International Education Committee has announced that funds are available for summer projects abroad. Preference will be given to students
planning to work in non-European countries. The International Education Committee has established these guidelines:
— The project presented in an application need not include plans for formal “classroom” learning, though that is not excluded.
— The award will be given to a student planning to return to Davidson. Graduating seniors are not eligible. The
returning Davidson student is expected to share his or her experiences through college presentations.
— The application should include a vita indicating interests and accomplishments, a two-to-three page essay describing the summer project and
indicating what the student hopes to achieve, and a proposed budget, anticipating no more than a $1,000 contribution from this
competition.

Applications should be sent to economics Professor Clark Ross, committee Chairman. The deadline is Friday, March 1, 1985.

Scabbard and Blade Inducts New Members

Scabbard and Blade, a national Military Honor Society, has initiated six candidates as active members. Cadets Jim Burson, Bill Oldham,
Wendy Fulks, Otto Ferrene, Andy Myers, and Jay Braun were inducted in a closed ceremony which took place in Phi
Hall. Military science professor LTC James Bachman became an associate member.

The National Society of Scabbard and Blade, founded in 1905, received its company charter at Davidson in 1923. Scabbard and
Blade has an active membership of sixteen juniors and seniors. In addition, the society sponsors fall and spring Blood Drives
with the American Red Cross, the Annual Military Ball, and a color guard for athletic events.

DuPont Grant Supports International Study

The Jessie Ball duPont Religious, Charitable and Educational Fund has awarded Davidson a $100,000 grant to support the Dean Rusk
Program in International Studies. Funds from the grant will provide scholarship assistance for Davidson students to study or intern abroad
and to enable international students to attend Davidson.

Scholarship support made possible by the duPont grant represents an integral part of the Dean Rusk Program’s efforts to diversify
further the Davidson student body and incorporate a “global perspective” into the College’s curriculum. Founded in 1983, the Dean Rusk
Program, named after the former U.S. Secretary of State and 1939 Davidson graduate, is designed to prepare Davidson students for
leadership in an increasingly complex, competitive, and interdependent world by augmenting their exposure to international affairs.

The duPont Fund, headquartered in Jacksonville, Fla., was established in 1976 and makes grants in the areas of religion, health,
the arts, education, and welfare. Jessie Ball duPont, a former teacher, became a prominent businesswoman and banker following her marriage
to Alfred I. duPont.

First Union National Bank
P.O. Box 39
Davidson
Cornelius
Huntersville

SPERM DONORS NEEDED
Fertility Laboratory
Charlotte
$25.00 Per Acceptable Donation
Call: Memorial Hospital and Medical Center
(704) 331-3227

Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St.
Davidson, N.C. 28036
892-7521

UNITED
I-77 at Hwy 73 - Cornelius/Lake Norman
137 N. Main St.
992-7805
Davidson
892-7815

CAROLINA BANK
