Friday, May 10, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Contras Like ‘Founding Fathers’

James Lewis

In recent weeks, and especially last week, opinions in this publication have been brought to light that have made me
painfully aware of a certain attitude that permeates certain segments of the student body here. I am referring to a
complete lack of regard for the national security of our beloved country. Yes, I am referring to recent responses on
the current situation that has befallen Nicaragua.

First, I am not impervious to the fact that the Freedom Fighters are making a few tactical mistakes in their
quest for a free and just society. I am by no means, however, one of those self-righteous types who believe
that the oppressive Sandinistas are heaven-sent. Behind the facade of a government which supposedly cares only for increasing literacy and
improving healthcare, are a gang of self-proclaimed Marxist revolutionaries who threaten the safety and stability of all Central America and
ultimately of the United States. To quote the current Sandinista Minister of Defense, Humberto Ortega: “Of course we are not
ashamed to be helping [the revolution in] El Salvador. We would like to help all revolutions.” The words of the
Sandinistas clearly show what their aims and beliefs are. Skeptics do not have to listen to critics of the Sandinistas;
they only have to listen to the words of the Sandinista leaders.

I have heard complaints about the “grim reapings” of the freedom fighters. Well, let me disclose some of the “grim
reapings” of the Sandinistas. Miskito Indians are a physically, historically, and culturally isolated minority which inhabit the East Coast region
of Nicaragua. The Miskito Indians were allowed relative autonomy under the former Somoza government. Under the new Marxist regime, these
peaceful Indians, however, are forced to encounter devastating repression. Marxist troops have viciously attacked Miskito refugee camps, not hesitating even
for a moment of pity to destroy entire villages. I would certainly find it hard to say that these Indians
subjected to arbitrary arrests, executions, interrogations, tortures, rapes, theft, and destruction are any more able than other Nicaraguan “children cut
down in their youth by gunfire” to reach their potential. No, we cannot just shut our eyes and pretend these
atrocities do not really exist, for they do indeed.

Now, a couple of weeks ago President Reagan compared the freedom fighters to America’s “Founding Fathers.” This comparison provoked shouts
of pious indignation from many segments. Upon close examination, one discovers, however, that this comparison is valid indeed. Before founding
this country, our “Founding Fathers,” like the freedom fighters of today, certainly were not saints. They massacred Indians and owned
slaves, but look at the great democracy those people founded! Now with aid and encouragement from our country, the freedom
fighters would have hope to be the “Founding Fathers” of a new bastion of liberty and democracy.

Lewis is a freshman from Tucker, GA.

Plagues Of Contributions

Tim Brown

In 1974, the Supreme Court ruled on campaign contributions in Buckley v. Valeo. In making their decisions, I wonder if
the justices regarded the writings of John Stuart Mill.

In this case, one side argued that there should be limits on campaign contributions; that otherwise the rich influence would
overshadow the influence of the poor. The other side argued that there should be no limits on campaign contributions; that
limits on campaign contributions limit the liberty of free speech. The Supreme Court satisfied both sides. Satisfying one side, it
approved limiting an individual's campaign contribution to $1,000 in the primary and to $1,000 in the general election and a
PAC’s campaign contribution to $5,000 in the primary and to $5,000 in the general election. Satisfying the other side, it
did not limit an independent committee's contribution. Unlike a PAC, an independent committee acts independently of and does not contribute
directly to a candidate’s campaign committee.

In defense of the liberty of free speech, John Stuart Mill might support having no limits on campaign contributions. However,
he would surely oppose the Supreme Court’s decision regarding the independent committee. Since it is independent of the candidate’s campaign
committee, the independent committee could purposefully expose opinions about the candidate that are defamatory or publish damaging and embarrassing truths.
John Stuart Mill writes that the liberty of free expression should be suppressed when they fall under these categories.

Brown is a freshman from Charlotte, NC, and is opinions editor of The Davidsonian.
