Friday, April 19, 1985  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Closemindedness At Davidson  
David Resnik

I'm glad that some of you have taken time from your busy schedule to read the opening line of this article. Not that the article is necessarily worth reading—it may be a waste of your time—but it is nice to know that someone is curious. The topic for this tirade is “Davidson and Closemindedness,” a phenomenon which permeates every aspect of this campus. If you already know everything about the subject or really don’t care, feel free to stop reading now. I congratulate those of you who are still with me; you passed the first test. Most people don’t read past the first paragraph of newspaper articles (I know because I’m one of them). Despite our high-minded pretensions about liberal arts and the pursuit of knowledge, many of us tend to lapse into dogmatic slumbers, and the College helps put some of us to sleep. The following examples illustrate how closedmindedness manifests itself in campus life.

Minimal Attendance at Campus Events  
Less than a handful of students attended the recent Sloan Liberal Arts Symposium on Technology and Freedom. How will new technologies affect the quality of your life (or death)? Few students care to know. You don’t need your toes to count the numbers of students who attend many of the events sponsored by Amnesty International or the Women’s Concerns Committee. Few students show up for poetry readings or guest lectures as well. Until recently, the Black Student Coalition had trouble getting students to attend its events. One can't deny that some students attend campus events—God bless their concerned souls—but did you ever notice that almost the same group of students attend each event? Everyone else is out either studying or partying.

Lack of Concern About Current Events  
Most students at Davidson would have trouble naming the capital of South Africa or the Soviet Union's new leader. Our lack of concern for anything outside of our limited world-view (i.e. tomorrow’s test or party) numbs us into dangerous ignorance. Some students do read the newspapers, but often they skim over the headlines and imbibe the comics, sports, or business pages. Many students can describe the latest ‘Far Side’ or can rattle off the NBA playoff pairings, but they could not tell you the day’s major news story. How can we be responsible leaders (or even minimally decent citizens) when we don’t even care to know what goes on in the world?

The Conservative Arts  
Although Davidson has earned its reputation as a liberal arts college, many students here try to get a “conservative arts education.” By “conservative arts” I mean the antithesis of liberal arts: while the liberal arts stress knowledge for its own sake and critical thinking, the conservative arts emphasize knowledge only for its practical use and thoughtless memorization. Students who practice the conservative arts avoid topics that are too philosophical or abstract because they don't want to understand them or just don’t care. They just want their professors to tell them exactly what will be on the test, and if possible they will get a spot for every test and assignment. They complain about professors who actually try to make them think on a test by presenting new material or new problems. One would hope that the educational requirements at a liberal arts college like Davidson would force students to learn how to think critically. But it is possible for students to weave their way through Davidson’s stringent core requirements without seriously testing their web of beliefs; many students do. One can teach knowledge without teaching the intellectual virtues.

The Pre-Med Syndrome  
Many of Davidson’s pre-medical students typify the conservative arts approach to learning. Many (but by no means all) of the pre-meds single-mindedly pursue the one goal which they deem worthwhile—a career in medicine. Quite often they pursue this goal to the exclusion of all non-related activities. They may play sports or hold a position of responsibility, but they do so only to fill their resumés. Needless to say, they have very little time for poetry readings or guest lecturers. Other Davidson students, such as the pre-law or pre-business students, also suffer from the painful pre-med syndrome.

Who Cares About Student Apathy  
Those of you who are still with me may be wondering why I have written this article. After all, who cares about student apathy and closedmindedness? Davidson has always had these problems, and it has survived them. Moreover, many apathetic students graduate from Davidson and become highly successful doctors, lawyers, and businessmen (and just recently businesswomen). I will grant this objection, but it entirely misses my point. Student apathy and closedmindedness may seem like minuscule problems but they're not. Until Davidson students learn to open up and practice the liberal arts, many of the problems that plague this campus will not go away. For example, we cannot solve the problems of race relations on this campus until we overcome our apathy and open up. You can hold as many race relations forums as you want, but they will do little good unless students (and not just the already concerned students) come to them. The students who really need to attend events like race relations forums are usually studying or partying. Furthermore, increasing minority recruitment will not solve the race problem unless students make an effort to meet each other and share their experiences. The problem we have with relations between the sexes (and believe me, it is more than just a sexual problem) also stems from our closedmindedness. We need to give each other a chance instead of saying “Oh, she's (he’s) just like every other Davidson woman (man).” We also need to open up in order to resolve conflicts over athletic policy, and we need to have meaningful...Dialogue in order to address Patterson Court's problems. The administration and Trustees also need to open up their minds on these matters. Having an open mind and a concern for what happens on this campus and in the rest of the world won't solve Davidson's problems, much less the problems in the “real world,” but it is a necessary first step toward taking effective action. As long as we relax in our dogmatic slumbers, we don’t have a chance; but we do have a chance if we wake up. Where there is an open mind, there is hope.

Resnik is a senior philosophy major from Chapel Hill, N.C. and is an editor emeritus of The Davidsonian.

Different Freedoms Cause Different Harms
Tim Brown

With increasing frequency, I find the opinion expressed in the newspapers that the corpulent person, the malodorous person, and the smoker should have their freedoms subjected to the same scrutinies and to the same criticisms. I disagree; allow me to explain why.

John Stuart Mill's “harm principle” states that a person can do whatever he likes as long as he does not harm a nonconsenting other; that different freedoms create different harms; that different freedoms, causing different harms, should be subjected to different scrutinies and to different criticisms. Possibly a person's obesity will harm, in a manner inconceivable to me, a nonconsenting person; however, a person's obesity harms in no way the nonconsenting person's health. Possibly a person's body odor will harm, in a manner quite conceivable to me, a nonconsenting person. A Roman poet, Catullus, states that a man who has underarms that smell like a goat will find neither a female companion nor a friend. However, a person's body odor harms in no way the nonconsenting person's health. Possibly a person’s smoking will harm, in a manner most conceivable to me, a nonconsenting person; moreover, as proven by empirical research, a person's smoking does harm the nonconsenting person's health. Thus, because their different freedoms create different harms to the nonconsenting person, the corpulent person, the ill-smelling person, and the smoker should have their freedoms subjected to different scrutinies and to different criticisms.

Brown is a freshman from Mint Hill, North Carolina and is opinions editor of The Davidsonian.

AI Works to Abolish Death Penalty
A.I.U.S.A.

“As one whose husband and mother-in-law have both died the victims of murder assassination, I stand firmly and unequivocally opposed to the death penalty for those convicted of capital offenses. An evil deed is not redeemed by an evil deed of retaliation. Justice is never advanced in the taking of a human life. Morality is never upheld by legalized murder.” 
— Coretta Scott King

In 1983 more than 1600 people were executed worldwide; nearly that many wait for their end on America’s death row. In more than 20 years’ experience documenting human rights abuses, Amnesty International has seen that the death penalty does nothing to make society safer. Many people hold the belief that capital punishment deters crime. Both the U.S. Supreme Court and the United Nations have found no conclusive evidence to support that belief. The United States is the only Western industrialized nation with capital punishment. Canada, France, and Great Britain have all abolished the death penalty. A major reason that Great Britain abolished the death penalty was the discovery that an innocent man had been executed. The death penalty is an irreversible punishment. Since 1900 in the United States, an average of one convicted murderer per year was later found innocent. In 1975 Freddie Pitts and Wilbert Lee were released when another man confessed to the murder of two white gas station attendants in Florida. These two black men served twelve years in prison and were almost put to death for crimes they did not commit. We can never know the actual number of people who have been unjustly executed.

The death penalty does not deter violent crime. Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall states, “The death penalty is no more effective a deterrent than life imprisonment ... It is also evident that the burden of capital punishment falls on the poor, the ignorant, and the underprivileged members of society.” In Texas, a study of the judicial system found that three out of four convicted murderers with court-appointed lawyers were sentenced to death, as opposed to one out of three with private attorneys. Money makes a difference. Race is also a factor which increases the likelihood of execution. Since 1930, 90 percent of the men executed for rape were black. (In 1977, the Supreme Court ruled the death penalty is excessively harsh punishment for the crime of rape.) The death penalty is no way to show that killing is wrong. Do we rape rapists? Justice does not mean imitate the crime. There is a false assumption that the death penalty helps to fight crime. It does not. The death penalty teaches that killing is sometimes acceptable, while denying the fundamental humanity of all people. Governments around the world execute people in different ways for different reasons, but no government should execute human beings. The United States was founded on a respect for those fundamental rights each individual deserves for no other reason than because he or she is a human being. The death penalty is cruel, inhuman, and degrading punishment, and human rights apply to all people, even those whose acts are condemned by society. No one should be sentenced to die. In the words of Andrei Sakharov, “Savagery begets only savagery.”

Tuesday, April 23, at 8 p.m. in the Big Screen Room, Amnesty International will present a slide presentation focusing on individuals in the U.S. who have been sentenced to die, including a man who was found innocent subsequent to his conviction.