By HURSTON HATCHER

“Do I look chic?” asks Nikki Giovanni as she looks out at an attentive 900-Room audience. The audience is at first inclined to chuckle, for she, wearing gray bell-bottomed trousers, a long purple tie, and a knitted cap on her head, seems an image out of the seventies. She knows how we perceive her, and yet through her simple exchange, she reveals that her concept of “chic” has little to do with clothing.

Nikki Giovanni, once called “the princess of black poetry,” spent last Wednesday and Thursday at Davidson as part of the 1985 Martin Luther King Lecture Speaker Series. She has authored or co-authored twelve poetry books, one of which, Gemini, earned a nomination in 1973 for a National Book Award. Through and beyond her poetry, she is respected as a leading equal rights activist.

Though Giovanni read several of her poems during her Wednesday-night presentation, she spent much of the evening voicing her opinions. With a frank, comic, and often caustic style, she addressed problems of race and sex discrimination in America. She denounced American-led boycotts of the South African government, calling them insignificant. “If you want to picket the government of South Africa,” she said, “go where it is. Go to Pretoria. We need to confront it with some risk to ourselves.”

Giovanni explained that while she deplores the apartheid government, she nevertheless finds the boycotts and restrictions supported by such organizations as Transafrica potentially dangerous. “What we need to do in America is make sure peace is maintained [in South Africa]. I don’t know why people are trying to destabilize the most economically sound nation on the continent.”

Giovanni next directed her presentation to the problems of blacks struggling to progress in a predominantly white American society. Addressing blacks in the audience in particular, she said: “Go do something. Anytime you want something, you’re going to have to do more to get it. Don’t let somebody that didn’t want you here in the first place ruin your world.”

At certain moments she seemed hardened, almost angry, while at other times her tone was light and cheerful as she looked optimistically to the future. In a somewhat sardonic mixture of those features, she remarked, “I know that when we get our first martian, we will all come together as earthlings.” Then as an afterthought, she said, “Why is it always a tragedy that brings us together?”

At the close of her presentation, Walli Williams of Charlotte rose to contradict her views toward South Africa. While Giovanni immediately turned and left through the 900 Room’s rear exit, Williams continued addressing the audience members who remained to listen. “My principles can’t be bought,” he said. Stella Nkomo of Charlotte said that she came with Williams to defend the boycotting policies that Giovanni so vehemently criticizes. “[Giovanni] has a history of taking a negative position on apartheid. What Transafrica is doing is very important. Nikki is speaking to a good many people who aren’t aware of the situation. It’s an insult to their intelligence.”

When she spoke again on Thursday morning, Giovanni focused on Nikki the artist. Discussing the young writer, she bemoaned the fact that writers are not encouraged to grow. “It happens all the time with American writers,” she said.said. “We say, ‘Now that you've done it, do it again.’ Mostly writing is the art of maturation. Art is not an athletic pursuit. To be an artist you have to have something behind you, so the older we get, the better we write.”

Giovanni said she does believe her poetry is accessible to everyone, black and white. The problem, she said repeatedly, is that of “knee-jerking people's lives,” or hastily categorizing them. “I think I can be read and understood, and all it takes is a heart.”

Nikki Giovanni steps away from the podium on Thursday morning wearing what appears to be the same outfit she wore the night before. The blouse is a new one, she assures us. It doesn't really matter, though—for Nikki Giovanni is chic.

Wodehouse’s Multi-Faceted Jeeves Delights Audience
By ALLISON WILLS

Wednesday night's Artist Series production of P.G. Wodehouse’s “Jeeves Takes Charge,” kept the audience in a perpetual state of laughter. British actor Edward Duke brilliantly portrays Bertie Wooster, an indulgent, crass “man about town” and his presumptuous gentleman's gentleman, Jeeves, as well as 10 other eccentric personalities.

Edward Duke as Bertie

The one-man, two-act play adapted by Duke and set in London in the 1930s, narrates the escapades of the master/servant team using Bertie’s biting yet insightful wit. Faced with unreasonable demands from his fiancée, older relatives and unsightly acquaintances, Bertie calls upon Jeeves to maintain his sanity, and Jeeves responds with a superior wit usually aimed at Bertie’s lack of taste. Among the characters included in what is considered Wodehouse's best-loved creation are Madeline Basset, the woman God forgot; Gussie Fink-Nottle, the newt lover (newts resemble small frogs); Edwin, the kind, but curious, boy scout; and his bossy aunts best described as “totally unfit for human consumption.”

Bertie Wooster, the narrator of the “Jeeves” stories, is 24 years old. He is unemployed and apparently dependent on rich relatives who finance his gambling, riding, squash, motoring and smoking concerts (drunken bashes held at his gentleman's club, The Drones). He has, however, written an article on “What the Well-Dressed Man is Wearing” in Milady's Boudoir, an unending source of amusement for Jeeves with his immaculate taste.

Reginald Jeeves served as a valet, butler and personal gentleman in some of the finest homes in London before working for Bertie. He is a specialist in correct dress and potent “pick-me-ups.” Jeeves spends most of his time getting Bertie out of trouble by helping him handle his love life and bothersome aunts, and often he intervenes acting in Bertie’s “best interest.”

Their interaction is delightful, and the two hours would be sufficiently entertaining if no other characters were introduced. Because of the nature of Wodehouse’s humor, following every word is essential to catching its subtleties, but Duke's rapid speech compounded by his switching characters frequently made some of the comments difficult to follow. Consequently, the audience seemed to miss several biting remarks.

Nevertheless, the performance was pure entertainment, and that was Wodehouse’s intention. He disregarded any attempt to analyze his humor, and when once asked a serious question concerning why he kept writing about Jeeves, Wodehouse replied simply that he liked the chap, and furthermore, it helped to keep him out of the pubs.