By ANDY BARRON

Fifth-year basketball coach Bobby Hussey enters the 1985-86 season with all his players from last year returning. Though last year’s
squad managed only a 10-20 record, 11 of those losses were by six points or less. With so much experience
returning, optimism runs high that Davidson can manage to end 11 consecutive losing seasons. In an interview with Davidsonian sports
editor Andy Barron, coach Hussey discusses the upcoming season, the future for Davidson basketball, and a wide variety of other
subjects.

Davidsonian: With everyone back from last year, are there high hopes for this year?

Hussey: We do have expectations of having a good season, but it is also important we play at the top
of our game at all times because with our schedule being as difficult as it is, I don’t think we
are talented enough that we could have a lot of off nights and have a consistent winner. We are going
to have to play well every time we come out of the gate.

D: It seems that with tough teams like St. John’s of last year off the schedule, this season would be
a little easier.

H: Last year we had an impossible schedule. This year I think you would look at the schedule and say
it is a very difficult one. In addition to some very good schools in the Southern Conference, we’ve got Wake
Forest, Duke, who is currently ranked two or three in the country, South Carolina, Vanderbilt, Iowa State, and UNCC, who
has made drastic improvements in their program over the last few months. So I don’t think you can look at
our schedule as being anything other than difficult.

D: I have seen Davidson as being picked to finish anywhere from second to fourth or fifth in the Southern
Conference this season. How do you react to that?

H: I think pre-season picks are always interesting. It gives the fans something to get excited about and the writers
something to write about, but I think the real important thing about the polls is where you finish at the
end of the season. I have some difficulty with the pre-season polls.

A pensive moment for coach Bobby Hussey as he watches from the bench.

Cats show potential for winning season

By ANDY BARRON

For Davidson basketball fans, 1985-86 should/could be a very exciting year. Everyone returns from last year’s 10-20 squad, a team
that lost 11 games by six or fewer points. To make the outlook even rosier, Davidson’s schedule moves from last
year's torturous journey through the AP Top 20 to this year’s challenging, but reasonable, agenda. Yes, Wildcat hoop fans, this
could be the year.

The year for what, you ask. Anyone vaguely acquainted with Davidson basketball knows all too well that Davidson ranked among
college basketball’s elite during the 1960s and early 1970s. Yet those same people might not realize that Davidson has put
together eleven consecutive losing seasons! The last Davidson team, or coach, to have a winning record was the 1973-74 squad
that went 18-9 in Terry Holland's final year as head coach. Holland currently coaches at Virginia, where he has gone
to the Final Four twice. In the meantime, a drought has enveloped Johnston Gym.

Except for a close loss to Wake Forest, a game Davidson Coach Bobby Hussey termed “a lost opportunity,” Davidson romped
through the easy part of their season. With the warm-up out of the way, the Wildcats must bear down, concentrate,
and come out ready to play every time they hit the floor as they face one challenging opponent after another
from here until the end of the season. The next two games feature Davidson’s biggest out-of-conference foes of the year.
Cross-county rival UNCC meets Davidson on Saturday in the “Battle of the Hornet’s Nest.” UNCC has played much better than
pre-season forecasters thought they would and will be a tough opponent, rival or not.On Wednesday, Dec. 18, Davidson hosts third-ranked
Duke, easily the premier team Davidson will play this year. Yet the Southern Conference schedule that begins here on Jan.
9 against the Citadel represents the most important part of the regular season for Davidson. More than a winning season,
Coach Hussey’s squad wants to win the post-season Southern Conference tournament. This would enable Davidson to go to the NCAA
tournament. In order to have the best chance to win the Southern Conference tourney, Davidson needs to be in the
top half of the regular season conference standings. That task won't be easy. Though Sports Illustrated ranks Davidson second in
the conference, most polls feel Davidson falls somewhere between third and fifth in the conference. As Coach Hussey pointed out,
these polls show that Davidson definitely has a chance to do well in the conference. The chief conference foe is
the Thundering Herd of Marshall. Everyone with an opinion feels Marshall is the team to beat in 1985-86. Players like
sophomore Skip Henderson, the conference's freshman of the year with 17.7 points per game, and power forward Jeff Guthrie (11.8
ppg, 7.3 rpg) lead Marshall’s talented and deep Herd. The rest of the league seems balanced, which means any team
can beat any team on any given day. The big story at each school other than Davidson seems to concern
who is gone rather than who remains. Tennessee-Chattanooga lost both their star player in Gerald Wilkins (now a New York
Knick) and their coach, Southern Conference legend Murray Arnold (now with the Chicago Bulls). Arnold had a six-year record of
135-6 in the Southern Conference. Yet the junior college pipeline to UTC continues to flow and the Moccasins seem loaded
enough to defend their conference title should Marshall falter. The conference's balance becomes apparent when The Citadel, a team that
lost their star (two-time SC Player of the Year Regan Truesdale) and their coach and are picked to finish last
despite the fact that everyone else is back from an 18-11 squad. Is this the year that Davidson Basketball fans
have waited for? Will the 11-year streak of losing seasons end? Will Davidson challenge for the Southern Conference title? Will
Davidson triumph in the conference tournament and reach the Nirvana of the NCAA tournament? Tune in on March second to
find out the answers to these and all other questions surrounding Davidson's basketball program.

Thursday, December 12, 1985

Coach Hussey: "...we season picks for the Southern Conference... the fact that you have teams like The Citadel who won
21 games last year and has 4 starters back, they’re picked to finish ninth. Also, in the Southern Conference tournament
they are picked to finish seventh or eighth. I don’t put a lot of stock in these things. I think
that we know we have a chance and we've got a shot. We need to be more concerned with what
happens at the end of the season rather than getting too excited about pre-season polls."

D: What are the things that Davidson needs to do to have a successful year?

H: We have to be more consistent than last year. I thought there were times we played very well in
some games. We had many games last year where we played well for 40 minutes and we didn’t have many
lapses. We played four outstanding games in a row. The key thing for us is to develop our overall game,
good play at both the offensive and defensive ends. I think we’ve made some strides in this area. In particular,
things in the team, of course, include a strong inside game. That’s an area where we weren’t strong last year
and we’ve worked really hard on it in the pre-season.

D: I talked with you last year about the change in conference and the void the program seems to be
entering. Have you heard anything new about the future for Davidson concerning the Southern Conference or any other conference?

H: I really haven’t. It’s our desire, the administration (of the Southern Conference), the hope of myself as a coach
and our administration (at Davidson) that the Southern Conference will allow Davidson to maintain its membership in sports other than
football. We do have a schedule this year in which we will be playing in the Southern Conference because we
are going to honor our contracts with the Southern Conference for another year. Beyond that, I guess "void" is the
proper word. I’m not sure exactly where we are going to go. Hopefully, the administration of the Southern Conference schools
would realize that Davidson makes a nice contribution and would...
