DAVIDSON  
Volume LXXIV, Number 16  
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036  
Friday, February 15, 1985  

Students check Self-selection lists in Chambers. See story page 3.

Honor Council Approves New Exam Pledge  
By DAVID McGEE  

Beginning this term, students, when turning in completed final exams, must sign a statement indicating that they have followed the rules of self-scheduled exams. The statement, for this term, will appear on a sheet of paper which professors will put inside exam envelopes, Honor Council chairperson Nancy Rosselot said. In the future, the statement will be printed on the exam envelopes. The statement says: “Failure to follow procedures for self-scheduled exams or to give accurate information about the taking of an exam will be considered a violation of the Honor Code.” The pledge students must sign says: “I have correctly followed all procedures for self-scheduled examinations and have truthfully given information on this envelope and its accompanying card.”

Knox Dorm Gets Combination Locks  
By TED WILSON  

Visitors to Knox Dorm will soon find a surprise awaiting them at the door. The Physical Plant plans to activate a dorm lock system in the next few days, which will require a combination to enter at night. The lock system, which costs $2,200 for Knox alone, has two combinations. The base combination is known only by Housing Director Bill Bolding and the Physical Plant; the other is given to Knox residents, according to Bolding. Bolding, at a dorm meeting last night, said students have a period of time, perhaps 30 or 60 seconds, until the door closes. “After that time, a warning buzzer goes off to prevent the door from being kept [or propped] open,” Bolding said. He said if someone “punches in three [consecutive] wrong combinations, the alarm goes off for a few seconds” to alert people in the vicinity that someone is attempting to enter. He said the residents would decide the hours when the doors would be locked. The consensus at the dorm meeting was to have the system activated between 11 p.m. and 7 a.m., though the hours are subject to change. The College chose the electronic combination system, Bolding said, over a key system, which fails to work if even one person loses a key. “With this system,” he said “we can change the numbers of the combination.” Knox is the experimental dorm for the locks. Bolding said “We'll look at the bugs in the system. If [it] works as well as we hope it will, we'll install it throughout the campus.” In that case, “each dorm would have a different combination.” Bolding emphasized to the Knox residents that “the effectiveness depends on you. Be discreet with who you want to share the number with.” Director of the Physical Plant Grover Meetze said “Dean Terry and I agreed jointly to put one [a lock] on. He picked the location.” Terry said there was “obviously a demand for locks on dorms. The SGA passed a resolution requesting them.” Terry explained the two main reasons why the College chose Knox for the experiment. “The girls in Knox are probably the ones who wanted it [the lock system] the most.” Secondly, Knox is the site where many of the fall robberies occurred. He added that the locks will regulate the entrance of “other intruders the Knox people wanted to control.” Meetze still maintains the “greatest thing they [students] can do is look after their room, report suspicious things, walk together” and lock their doors. He said “there's no way to provide personnel (continued on page 4)

Rosselot said the Honor Council approved having students sign the statement to remind students to follow exam procedure more closely. She said therehas been "concern with students taking exams in hallways and bathrooms." In addition, problems have arisen from some students writing incorrect information on exam envelopes such as the room number and the time exams are taken. Rosselot said there has been some confusion with students taking open-book exams in undesignated rooms. In the past, the Council has dealt with complaints of students not following exam procedure as violations of academic responsibility under the Code of Responsibility. "The Council decided this was the best way to deal with the problem," Rosselot said. (continued on page 4)

Self-Selection: A System Caught In A Paradox
By ROSS HOLT

Between October and December of 1970, newly installed President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. designed a new social policy for the College. Called Self-selection, the policy would replace the Patterson Court Greek system. The task of implementing the policy would fall on the shoulders of the new Dean of Students, who was to take office in January. "If I'd known what it involved, I’m not sure I would have taken the job," Will Terry said.

Almost since its inception, problems have plagued Self-selection. The system has adapted to the problems in ways both official and unofficial, and now differs considerably from what Spencer envisioned. Most of Self-selection’s problems revolve around the existence of fraternities on the Court. The system throws together two contradictory concepts. One is the idea that freshmen have the right to choose where they wish to conduct their social life; the other is the idea that fraternities, by definition, have the right to control their membership.

The system is "premised on a very fallacious idea," Terry said, "or at least we did not take into account that there is a paradox between Self-selection and fraternities." "If you decide to keep fraternities, which the Trustees apparently did, you have to deal with the paradox," he said. Consequently, administering the social system became a process of reconciling the policy and the practice.

Self-selection

The Self-selection policy came about as a result of a decade of haggling over the issue of fraternity selectivity. In fall, 1959, a group of senior fraternity members went inactive to protest first-week freshman rush and a perceived fraternity monopoly on campus social life. During the 1960s, various committees and councils formed to address the problems. Their remedies ranged from the creation of social outlets for independents to the delaying of fraternity rushes, to proposals that all students be affiliated without necessarily receiving bids. Finally, the Blue Sky report, which examined the fundamental foci of the College, and reports commissioned by Spencer on social life recommended all Court houses be nonselective.

Terry said the College moved to Self-selection "as a result of the traumatic aspects of the bid system." "People say the system still causes hurt. That's true, but it does not cause the hurt it caused then," Terry said. He added that current students lacked the historical perspective of having seen the College through that period. College President John Kuykendall said he "lived through a period of intense selectivity" here. "I saw what it did to the lives of some... I think that contradicts the spirit of Davidson." Still, he said he recognized the right of social groups to determine their own structure.

Almost immediately after Spencer instituted Self-selection, the remaining fraternities devised "oral encouragement" as a way to circumvent the letter of the system, according to an independent study on the subject done for the then-history Professor Chalmers Davidson in 1974. Under that system, students fraternities preferred not to have as members would cease to receive invitations to (continued on page 4)