Friday, January 11, 1985 / The Davidsonian 3

By ROSS HOLT

Last Saturday, an alumnus and former Davidson chemistry professor became North Carolina’s 97th governor and the state’s second Republican governor in this century. And Jim Martin ’57 attributes part of his success in the hard-fought gubernatorial race to strong support from Davidson alumni.

Martin’s inauguration reflected his connections to Davidson. College President John Kuykendall delivered the invocation during the inaugural ceremonies, and an ROTC color guard marched in the inaugural parade. In an interview Wednesday, the new governor credited “a very prominent, very notable group of Davidson alumni who went out of their way to get involved” with helping him attain the office. Davidsonians who helped Martin included not just alumni, but classmates and former students as well, he said. In some counties, he had little or no campaign organization and little chance at the polls until Davidson alumni began raising funds and stumping for him. “There were a lot of counties where early organization depended upon Davidson grads getting out and making contacts,” he said.

Martin observed that though Davidson has a much smaller number of alumni than other colleges and universities in the state, he found a larger percentage to be politically active. “Everywhere I went, I would run into Davidsonians who would get involved,” he said. “I ran into that all across the state.” Martin attributed the political activity he saw among alumni to what he called “the small college experience.” Davidson alumni, he said, “feel a great degree of loyalty not only to the College but to other graduates as well.”

Former Governor James Holshouser ’56, now a Southern Pines, NC lawyer and a Davidson trustee, said Davidson may also instill a desire for community service in its graduates. The objective they pursue is “not necessarily politics per se, but community service — politics is perhaps a natural outgrowth of that,” he said. Holshouser was North Carolina’s first Republican governor in this century. Both Holshouser and Martin emphasized, though, that Davidson alumni participation in politics is bipartisan. Martin pointed to five Davidson graduates in the U.S. House, four of whom are Democrats.

Martin said his political career began when, as a Davidson professor, he sponsored a campus Young Republicans group. Though Republican candidates then fared poorly in the area, he organized students to canvas the Davidson precinct for the party. As a result of that strategy, Martin said, candidates who had been losing by 8-1 margins here began to lose by mere 3-1 margins. In 1966, Mecklenburg voters elected him to the County Commission, which he later chaired. When the ninth district congressional seat became vacant in 1972, he “decided it was time to try that,” he said. He won the election and was reelected five times. While in the House, he became a senior member of the Ways and Means committee and served as chairman of the House Republican Research Committee.

During his sixth House term, Martin said he began to look at the governor’s race. “I knew some of the people running. The more I looked at it, the more I was convinced that was what I wanted to do,” he said. Despite his lack of statewide name-recognition, Martin came from behind to defeat Democratic Attorney General Rufus Edmisten. Martin said polls showing Edmisten’s 60-30 percent edge in early polls eroded drastically, while his support climbed steadily. He defeated Edmisten by 8 percentage points.

Though Martin will maintain a campaign organization headed by his brother Joe (Davidson, class of ’63), he has not yet set his sights beyond the governorship. “In each of the offices that I’ve held,” he said, “I've had no desire to run for another office until about a year-and-a-half before an election.” He expects to run for a second term as governor, but he said he will not decide until that election is near.

Martin said the gubernatorial campaign drew him closer to college classmates with whom he had not been close friends at Davidson. But he said the “affinity grew out of our Davidson relationship.” “That’s what really drew us together,” he added.

Farrell Will Not Return As Head Football Coach (continued from page 1)

talk [on my] previous visits to Davidson. He had found the recent seasons frustrating.” He added “it was not a great surprise” Farrell decided not to return. Farrell will work until his contract expires in June. Though he has no plans for next year, Farrell said “I feel certain [my job] will be in athletics, but probably not in football. The possibility of getting a good coaching job after not having success in the last few years is not good.” He added that his work will probably be in athletic administration. “I have had a lot of support that I did a good job” in that area, he

RAPE Committee To Aid Victims

admit there is a problem,” she said. She hopes activities planned this monthwill increase campus awareness of rape. The RAPE committee will conduct dorm meetings in the next few weeks in conjunction with the SGA Security Committee and the Davidson Emergency Rescue Squad concerning a number of security issues, including rape. The committee will also distribute literature addressing the definition of rape and the recourses open to its victims and has plans for forums concerning rape-related questions. “Anything that can happen at home can happen here,” McLemore said. “The thing that bothers me the most is that people are wrapped in a sense of security they feel here,” she said. “Davidson is the real world. People often don’t use the common sense they would use back home.” McLemore said committee members are available “24 hours a day, seven days a week,” and all inquiries are strictly confidential. “I want girls to realize that they have the right to say no at any time and have the right to stand by that.” She said the committee will support any victim who wishes to file rape charges. The committee’s major interest, however, “is making sure the girl is not facing it on her own.”

Dean of Students Will Terry, whose office handles reported rape cases on campus, said he hopes the committee will “never [be] very highly needed.” According to Terry, “No one has reported a rape to me in recent years.” He said more open discussion of rape might make more women willing to bring criminal charges. Terry noted the distinction between violent rape and so-called “date rape,” and said he sometimes hears of the latter in “very veiled types of ways.” McLemore said faculty and student reaction to the committee has generally been very positive. “I've had people who are receptive and people who refuse to listen,” she said.

Task Force Gathers Opinions (continued from page 1)

Davidson. Strategies include a tutoring program, special programs for black students during freshmen orientation, hiring of a black assistant dean of students, and career development of black students. Much of the discussion at the student forum centered on the College’s relations with Davidson's black community. Several people said many blacks who live in Davidson hold a mistrust for the College due to the actions of Griffith Street Properties, Inc., a non-profit organization composed of College alumni. Griffith Street Properties is not directly associated with Davidson College and has sought to acquire property along the Griffith Street approach to Davidson. Griffith Street Properties plans to turn over the property it buys to the “highest and best use of the College.” According to a task force member, there is a “sense within the community of pressure on the people to sell at an unfair price or before they are ready to sell.” Since 1981, Griffith Street Properties has acquired four lots along Griffith Street. Another strategy in the task force’s report would establish a committee represented by College and town residents to improve the relations between the College and town residents.

Concerning Faculty and the College’s academic program, Davidson would provide stipends for Faculty to pursue studies to incorporate the black experience more fully in the courses they teach. The College would continue efforts to hire tenure-track professors of diverse racial/ethnic backgrounds; other plans would bring visiting black professors to Davidson from other schools. About hiring more black professors, one task force member said “We want to get more, but we can’t hold on to the ones we have.”

Morris said all the assistant coaches will serve out their contracts, of which all but one will expire this June. One assistant coach with another year remaining in his contract will be allowed to fulfill it. Morris said “The new coach will have the chance to make his own decisions” about his assistant coaches. He will be able to retain the current coaches or hire others. The search for a new head coach will begin immediately. Morris said “In the next few days I'll be talking to Dr. Kuykendall about the process. [I] won't make any decision on the process until we consult.” The hiring of a new coach, Kuykendall said, is “an administrative, not policy decision” and wants to let Morris “do what's comfortable in selecting a coach.” Morris added, “It makes sense to consult the College community — faculty, administrators, alumni and students — to get input” on how to get the best man for the job. Kuykendall said he didn't know if the goals of the football program will be changed with the arrival of the new coach. “Policy decisions are made by Trustees.” He said the goals of the athletic program “have been recently affirmed by the Trustees when they decided we would remain in the Southern Conference” and try to be “competitive in the football program and successful in basketball and non-competitive sports.” “If there is a change” in policy, “the Trustees will be the ones to make it,” Kuykendall said. As for next year, Kuykendall said “we're facing a prototypical transition year, we're committed to our schedule next year and we'll be there.”