10 Friday, February 1, 1985 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
Kevin Horan, Business Manager
John Gathings, Production Manager
Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor
Will Thomason, Advertising Manager
David McCurry, Circulation Manager

3 Down, How Many To Go?
Ross Holt, Editor

For the third time in just under two years, a co-ed eating house has folded. Fannie and Mable’s was, up
until very recently, a popular place to eat. But for some reason, fewer and fewer freshmen chose to eat at
the house. Now, deficits and lack of any foreseeable increase in membership have forced it to close its doors.

ETC’s demise sounded a warning; ATO’s death raised fears among the co-ed houses; now F & M’s impending death shows
that co-ed small-group dining is in grave danger. Some chalk this phenomenon up to a re-emergence of single-sex dining. New
conservatism is on the rise, they say, and with it a regression to the old fraternity system (with a new
twist here, of course — would-be sororities). There seems little way to stop the process, until more liberal attitudes again
push out the conservative ones.

Others see the houses themselves as responsible for their own downfalls. Eccentricities, they argue, stopped potential members at the houses’
doors. At ETC, certain more outspoken house members drove ETC women to Warner Hall and ETC men to the Commons.
At ATO, tolerance for individualism turned into a requirement for eccentricity and thus the house lost its former attraction. And
F & M became, they say, the hangout for drug users and “dead-heads.”

Still others believe the College is engaged in some secret conspiracy to eliminate small group dining and make everyone eat
in the Commons. By offering a better economic incentive, such as longer hours, more options, more quantity for only a
small price increase, the Commons will bleed the houses dry one by one.

Perhaps all these suggestions have some merit; perhaps none do. In any case, the rapid demise of co-ed eating houses
suggests that President Emeritus Sam Spencer’s dream social system is finally irrevocably unraveling. The College must act to find out
why, and it must avoid the assumptions — both official and unofficial — of the present system in doing so.
Each of the above explanations has a constituency, the views of which are filtered through that constituency’s own interest.

For the time being, however, the remaining co-ed houses must realize that “the times, they are a-changing.” No matter what
house members would like to think, Emanon and PAX have no guarantees that they will still be around at the
end of next year. When the Class of ’85 arrived here, the court contained five co-ed houses. ATO and F
& M were among the strongest. Now, two remain. Maybe the attrition will end there; perhaps the situation has stabilized.
Then again, the attrition might not end, and this year’s freshman class might only foggily remember the idea of small-group
dining by the time they graduate.

We hope, for the sake of the College, that the co-ed houses can survive. The loss of the co-ed houses
would take away one of the precious few things about Davidson that are truly special.

Opinions

Many of you probably know Women’s Week is coming up. We encourage everyone to participate in next week’s discussions on
women’s issues.

Last night, a student brought an “Opinions” article to us which discussed the treatment women receive at Davidson. We decided
not to print the article because space had already been filled in the “Opinions” section for this week. However good
and relevant the article may be, it was turned in three days after the “Opinions” articles’ deadline. (The deadline is
7 p.m.Monday.) We want very much to publish articles of concern to the Davidson community; we only ask that writers
please do us a service and abide by our deadlines.

Long Bekora Soshran Campos Police Awd PaBlAEvEIG Arabands Qoo if fy (>) | y =Think Z’ll Call itaLock, / >
y

Letters

Response To The Editors:

In response to Andy Kromer’s letter last week, I would like to address “the real problem” of rape at Davidson.
I am in complete agreement with Andy. We do not in any way want to start an unnecessary panic, but
ignoring the problem will not make it go away. So yes, the answer is education, but the question is what
kind of education. My answer has several aspects.

First is education through awareness. The mere fact that you thought about and wrote this letter shows some beginning accomplishment.
Research shows that by simply knowing about and dealing with rape, a person is a lot safer. The second need
for edification is how to deal with the problem; this can be done through teaching both preventive and self-protective measures.
But the most important issue in my mind is, why is this happening? There is no completely correct answer, but
a good hypothesis is that attitudes of the students are the causes. This is not to imply that Davidson students
are the only ones, because we are also experiencing the real world and its problems.

Men must realize that whether it is a power rape or an acquaintance rape, it is an absolutely wrong way
to deal with one’s anger or desires. When a person is raped, that person is, in a sense, being denied
her intelligence, the right to make her own decision, and deprived of her self-dignity. Women must also deal with their
willingness to accept what is happening around them and to them. No one has the right to hurt anyone this
way, and the sooner we take a stand and refuse to let this continue undaunted, the sooner we can effectively
deal with the problem.

Sonia Johnson said it best when she said, “To learn against the odds, to love and respect ourselves and other
women, that is the very basis, the very foundation of our movement.” Ideally, it would be wonderful if we could
walk around with a blind trust, but it is unrealistic. Davidson is made up of real people with real frustrations
and real problems. If we are to learn to deal with our freedoms, we must openly discuss and confront these
problems and, in the process, support each other. The Raised Awareness and Protection for Everyone (RAPE) Committee does hope to
help the campus deal with this “important dilemma,” but we can only do it with support from you and other
students.

Melissa S. McLemore

Editor’s note: McLemore is chairperson of the RAPE Committee.

The Davidsonian “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions
articles on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community. We adhere to these guidelines:

1) We require that all articles be in our hands at 7 p.m. Monday.
2) We accept typed articles and those written legibly, double-spaced.
3) We require that opinions be signed. We will print unsigned articles only if a compelling reason exists for withholding
the author’s name, and the author is known to either the editor or executive editor.
4) We will not edit opinions for style or content, but we reserve the right to edit for rules of
common English. We will inform the author of substantial changes.
5) Since space for Opinions articles is limited, we reserve the right to select articles from those we receive for
publication. We will attempt to print any article we withhold from publication for space reasons the next week.
