Sports Lady Cats Look Forward To A Winning Season
By PATRICIA HAHN and LEE LUTZ

The past two weeks have been busy for the Davidson Women’s Tennis team. With at least eight matches left in the season, the team’s record is now 11-3. On March 24th, the Lady Cats traveled to Atlanta and were defeated 8-1 by ACC Division I school Georgia Tech University. The following day, the team defeated High Point College 8-1 at home. On the 26th, the Cats were on the road again—this time to meet Wake Forest University, also an ACC Division I school. Playing on what Coach Caroline Brown termed “the fastest courts east of the Mississippi,” the team met defeat at the hands of the Demon Deacons.

Returning home, the Lady Cats rallied to a 6-3 victory over East Tennessee State University. Senior Captain Tricia Ives said, “It was a good revenge match; we lost to them 5-4 last year.” Moving ahead non-stop, the Davidson women claimed a sound 7-2 victory over Kalamazoo College, host of last year’s NCAA Division III Nationals. Early Saturday morning, it was on the road again, this time to play East Carolina University. Mirroring their fall scrimmage against ECU, Davidson beat them 6-3. On April Fools’ Day, the Cats chalked up another win against Furman University. Tied 3-3 following the singles, the doubles brought it down to the wire. The first two doubles matches gave a victory to each side. The match now rested on the number one doubles team of freshman Amy McNelis and junior Caroline Barclay. After splitting sets, McNelis-Barclay pulled out a 6-4, 0-6, 6-1 victory.

The Lady Cats had a practice day Tuesday before resuming action against UNC-Greensboro on April 3rd in Greensboro. UNC-G lost to the Cats 9-0 in the fall scrimmage season. On April 4th, the team rallied against UNC-C here, and Sunday, April 8, the team will match up against Presbyterian College at 2 p.m. on Davidson's own turf. With several formerly ailing members returning to the court, the team looks forward to a continued winning season.

After Slow Start Cats Are In Position
By EDWIN PAGE

Last weekend, the Davidson Wildcats baseball team traveled to Charleston, S.C., for a crucial three-game series with The Citadel. The Cats were riding high after trouncing Warren Wilson 17-6 on Tuesday and defeating UNCC 10-8 on Wednesday. The team was led by freshman Allen Lewis’ two home runs (numbers eight and nine for the year) and a solid performance by freshman pitcher Darryl Bego. The victory gave the team a 2-0 record against the cross-county rivals. A week earlier, the Cats had traveled to first place Western Carolina and split two games in a rain-shortened series, giving the team a 3-4 record in the conference.

The weekend got off to an inauspicious start Friday as the Cats dropped the series’ first game 6-5. But the Cats rebounded to take the nightcap by a 12-4 tally. Freshman Dave Fitzgerald collected his fourth win and sophomore Keith Helfant got four hits. On Saturday, sophomore Steve Condon started for the Cats and went seven innings, leaving with the game tied 8-8. Helfant had another fine day with four hits, one of them a two-out, ninth-inning home run that broke the deadlock and gave the Cats a 9-8 victory. Ironically, what may have been, according to Frank, the team’s best performance of the season, was an 8-1 loss to South Carolina.Season. Junior Caroline Barclay in a recent match. Despite Loss To USC, Netters Continue To Improve Before Conference Tournament

By JOE JOHNSON

As the weather goes, so go the Davidson netters. In the second official week of spring, Coach Jeff Frank’s freshman-dominated squad dropped only three matches in sweeping past Harvard University “B,” Ohio University, The Citadel, and Belmont Abbey. They finished the week with what USC is currently ranked 12th in the nation and tends to play especially well on the exceptionally fast courts of Columbia, S.C.

The Cats played a solid all-around match in squashing Harvard 8-1 Wednesday at home. The day’s highlight was number-one singles player Sedge Gray's three-set victory over the Crimson’s Paul Palandjian. The Davidson co-captain repeatedly amazed the home crowd with a delicate volley and a flawless pronunciation of his opponent's last name.

The next day saw the hard-hitting Ohio team fall 7-2 despite a sub-par showing by the Wildcat doubles teams. On Friday, however, the Cats were nothing short of spectacular in dismantling Southern Conference opponent, The Citadel, in Charleston, S.C., without dropping a single set. Monday's 9-0 yawner set the stage for Tuesday's trial in Columbia. Freshmen Jim Thompson and Rick Hodge garnered Davidson's only win, a 6-4, 6-2 third doubles triumph. Hodge also extended USC's number five singles player, 1984 NCAA tourney qualifier Young Min Kwon, to three sets.

Look for continued improvement for the 14-8 Cats as the Southern Conference Tournament looms closer, especially in doubles. Since a mid-season line-up change, the Cats are 21-9 in doubles.

To Control Conference Destiny

Freshman Charles Winborne pitched two scoreless innings to get the win. For the weekend, Helfant was ten for 13, boosting his average to .396. On Monday, the Cats jumped out to a 10-2 lead against Wake Forest, aided by a Bill Masse grand slam in the second inning. Sophomore Billy Waitsman started for the Cats, but was replaced by Bego when he injured his hand. Bego pitched well, leaving in the seventh with a 10-4 lead and two men on. Fitzgerald came on but was unable to contain the Deacons. The Cats escaped more serious damage when Masse gunned down a man at the plate to end the inning with the score 10-7.

Junior Scott Weaver came on in relief of Fitzgerald but was also ineffective. After surrendering a solo homer in the ninth, Weaver had two outs and only one man on. The batter hit a looping line drive to center. Masse charged the ball and attempted a sliding catch, but was unable to hang on. Weaver walked the next batter to load the bases and then surrendered a grand slam that gave Wake a 12-10 victory.

Despite Monday's disappointing result, the Cats have been playing well of late, winning five out of their last seven. The pitching must become more consistent, but the Cats have a fine chance to qualify for post-season play. Both The Citadel and Furman have seven conference losses while Davidson is now 5-5. Only two more weekend series remain on the conference schedule and the Cats play both at home. The team is in the enviable position of being able to control their own destiny. If they win both of the remaining series, they will almost assuredly make the playoffs.

On Friday, the Cats take on a fine Clemson team at home and on Saturday, Furman comes to town for a double-header and a single game on Sunday, both beginning at 1 p.m.