Friday, February 8, 1985 / The Davidsonian 5

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

The fine art of air band has come a long way. This guy at my high school — this was the late seventies, mind you — could do a mean Jimi Hendrix using nothing but his vocal cords and a tennis racket. "Purple Haze," indeed. I recalled this guy’s soulful interpretation last Friday night at the fourth annual Phi Delt Air Band contest, and I realized that air band ain’t what it used to be. The Rolling Stones didn’t win the keg; Bruce Springsteen didn’t either. Nobody even did Jimi Hendrix — the purple haze had cleared in favor of a far more provocative and female purple rain. Apollonia 6 was the group of choice, and it took the keg Friday night without using a single tennis racket.

For the uninitiated, Apollonia is the young lady friend of cultural phenomenon and natty dresser Prince in the movie Purple Rain. Apollonia and her two buddies comprise the group Apollonia 6 (“Six what?” you ask). Last Friday we saw three freshmen transformed into the A6: Mary Lou Hampton, Susan Boyd, and Colleen Bairas as the Dionysian Apollonia. “Are those Davidson girls?” was the question in everyone's mind. Yes, in fact, they are.

I talked with these young women this week to find out what might inspire them to perform tunes such as “Sex Shooter” and “Happy Birthday, Mr. Christian” in front of a particularly enthusiastic group of primarily male students. “It’s fun!” they told me, which I reckon is a pretty good reason. Colleen said she has seen Purple Rain several times and “listens to the music constantly,” according to Mary Lou. The idea to do Apollonia 6 was Colleen’s, but all three embraced the idea immediately. “Davidson girls have this nerdy image,” Colleen said. “The guys are always bringing in imports, and we thought we'd show them the other side.”

“Showing them the other side” meant a good deal of practice and preparation. Many of the group’s moves Friday night came from the Apollonia 6 “Sex Shooter” video, which Colleen studied over Christmas break and came close to perfecting. “We wanted to be as near to an exact representation as we could,” Mary Lou said. That eye for detail went beyond choreography to the most remarkable component of their act: the costumes. Faithful they were — the costumes are essentially the same as the ones A6 wears. “See? We even did the makeup like the originals,” Colleen said as she showed me the album cover.

A MORE OR LESS SPECIAL REPORT BY ANN MEADOR

Short Courses Provide Wah-ah-wah,
By IDA PHILLIPS

Sunday
Dear Diary,
I’m so excited! Short courses start tomorrow. I've already tried on five different outfits. I’m going to skip all my classes tomorrow and sleep all day so I'll have enough energy for clogging. Good night!

Monday
Dear Diary,
Boy am I steamed. I put on my best overalls and a really neat plaid shirt and went to clogging. Two people showed up. So we didn’t have class. I went home and practiced anyway. I hope more people show up tomorrow for human rights. I’m going to wear my smiley face button.

Tuesday
Dear Diary,
Just got back from the human rights short course. A professor spoke about international rights. He was well prepared. He had a copy of the United Nations charter in his pocket. Three other people showed up. I think they were all poli-sci majors because when the professor finished, they all asked smart questions. I felt like I should contribute, so I asked him where I could get my own copy of the United Nations Charter. He gave me his.nervous about performing in this garb? “Well, when we walked out in the hall and saw our hallmates’ first reactions, we got a little paranoid,” Susan said. “It just took some getting used to.”

“We were petrified at first,” Mary Lou said, “but we were scheduled late, and everyone backstage had already seen our costumes. When the time came, we were ready!”

“Yeah,” Colleen added, “after we did ‘Happy Birthday, Mr. Christian’ as our encore, we were ready to do ‘Sex Shooter’ again.”

I asked them if their performance was related to Women’s Week, were they trying to make a statement through their art?

“No, not really,” Susan said. “It's just fun.”

“We haven't heard any bad response,” Colleen said. “Most people said they were impressed with it and were glad we did it. Our hall has been especially supportive.”

The future looks bright for these freshmen. They split their keg with their freshman hall and the Phi Delts, Mary Lou said, “because they were so supportive.” They don’t know what they will do for next year’s contest, but “if someone new comes along, we might do them,” Colleen said. In the meantime, they plan a reprise of their act in the upcoming freshman talent show. “Except this time we'll wear clothes,” Mary Lou said. The spirit of the act will remain the same, I imagine.

“Actually, you know,” Mary Lou concluded, “what we wore was more than a bikini, more or less.”

---

Short courses are great!

Wednesday

Dear Diary,

I never realized how hard it is to play the harmonica. (Just went to harmonica playing). I learned a lot. Here's how the opening to “The Promised Land” by “The Boss” sounds: Wah-ah-wah/ah-oo0-ah-wah/ah-woo-ah-000/wah-wah-ah-a-000/vocal. And here’s “Love Me Do” by “The Fab Four:” wah/huh/wow/huh-huh-huh-huh/wah-ah/huh-huh/wow/huh-huh-huh-huh. It really sounds neat on the harmonica.

Before I went to harmonica playing, I went to massage class. Only one other guy showed up so I just watched. I'm glad.

Next Wednesday

Dear Diary,

After a week without short courses, I was really ready to have some fun. So I went to wine-tasting. Wow! Here’s what we did:

— We sat down and all had two glasses and a napkin. A lady talked about wine and we read some neato handouts. Here's what I learned:
— The best wines to serve with elk are Barbera, Zinfandel, Burgundy, Chianti, and Mountain Red. The same goes for buffalo except you don't serve Zinfandel and Mountain Red but you do serve Pinot Noir.

Here's what was in a pamphlet about serving wine in a restaurant:
— A quote: “Never correct a customer's mispronunciation or disagree with their wine selection.”
— A pronunciation guide for every wine from Gewurztraminer (Geh-WIRTS-trah-meen-err) to Rosé (Roe-ZAY).
— A true-false quiz which said things like: “When you have taken a wine order, serve the wine to your customer without delay.” (I said false, because I remembered that a good appetite is the best sauce.)
— A bunch of definitions for words like acidity, appearance, body, nose, and residual sugar. (It's neat because all those words can fit in one sentence: She turned up her nose at the wino who had put too much residual sugar into his body, which caused acidity in his stomach and a green tinge to his appearance.)

After the lady talked, she poured wine in our glasses. She used about eight different kinds. They were all from California. She started out with white and ended up with red. A lot of people drank it, but I didn't because I hear it makes you dizzy.

Next week is clogging again. This time I won't wear my overalls.