4 Friday, January 11, 1985 / The Davidsonian

SGA To Hold Winter Term Elections Tuesday

Rudy & McLean, Beasley & Cardwell Compete For Freshman Advisors

Sara Beasley and Tommy Cardwell

As a team of candidates for Freshman Advisor, we resolved our commitment to this office in mid-November. We are confident in our own abilities and sense strong support from those interested in the welfare of the hall counseling program. Our goals, our interests, and our talents demonstrate that we are the better team for the job. We joined together not in convenience but in genuine seriousness and faith in each other. We share roles as present hall counselors: Sara of Third Richardson and Tommy of Third Belk. It strikes us as silly to consider any other qualification more important. Please ask our freshmen! They know how we have done this year and will declare confidence in our ability to do well next year.

In continuing our support for a healthy program, we are determined to clarify any recurring issues further. We need to choose the best applicants as hall counselors, we need to consider their alternates more carefully, and we will need the help of a representative committee. The hall counselor selection process is the first task of the Freshman Advisor team. Upon choosing these counselors, we will set forth to help them. We can only guide their policies; we refuse to set or limit them because only the hall counselors can live with the freshmen next year. Each year the views change on alcohol, drug use, vandalism, and the self-selection process. Flexibility and endurance are key qualities in any position of leadership; we feel blessed with both.

The freshman hall program remains perhaps the only experience most everyone reading this paper shares. Its importance is impossible to underestimate. Our duty rests in providing the strongest possible base for next year’s incoming class. By drawing upon our considerable resources, we seek to do more than simply carry out the responsibilities of the Freshman Advisors. The job demands not only experience and skill, but the consistent and persistent effort that results from true dedication. By voting for us on Tuesday, you will be casting a responsible vote — for a responsible team. Thank you for your time.

Sayres Rudy and Kaudie McLean

As present hall counselors, our idea of the function of Freshman Advisors reflects the role that the current Freshman Advisors have fulfilled for us during the past several months. First, and perhaps most importantly, the Freshman Advisors help select a responsible group of students to act as hall counselors for the following year, and hopefully to continue to be a resource to their hallmates after their official duties end. Second, once hall counselors have been chosen, the Freshman Advisors themselves become a resource for information, creative ideas and suggestions for dealing with the various responsibilities and problems that the hall counselors confront, and frequently, a source of emotional support and encouragement. They act mainly as “counselors to the counselors” and have the advantage of nine months’ first-hand experience (including their mistakes) to draw upon. Furthermore, they serve as a familiar and accessible liaison between the hall counselors and the Dean of Students’ Office and counseling staff; and, like most hall counselors, the Freshman Advisors act as great student advocates — for the hall counselors and freshmen alike.

Our goal as Freshman Advisors would be to fulfill these functions and to initiate some of what we feel would be improvements in the hall counselor program. First, we would like to establish a clear and unbiased policy concerning the role of hall counselor in the self-selection process of Patterson Court, especially with regards to the fraternities and their rush procedures. We believe that all hall counselors should remain completely neutral and detached from “recruiting” freshmen. We don’t think this policy asks hall counselors in eating clubs or fraternities to become inactive in their respective houses; it simply entails their equal encouragement of all eating and social arrangements, no discouragement of any of them, and general support of the diversity Patterson Court offers. Second, we hope that the election of Freshman Advisors will, in the future, be determined by a vote of only the current hall counselors and Freshman Advisors. We don’t see this proposal (presented last year as well) as an elitist attempt to exclude the student body from choosing competent Freshman Advisors. We do believe that, because the campus as a whole rarely hears about our performance and ability to fulfill our role as hall counselors, the people most in touch with this situation (hall counselors and Freshman Advisors) seem best qualified to elect responsible individuals. Finally, we would like to see the hall counselors receive more training by working further with the counseling staff and with the professors in the psychology department.

We believe we are well qualified for the office. We are both capable hall counselors having met our share of challenges this year, and are enthusiastic about the possibility of meeting more this year and next as candidates for Freshman Advisors. In addition, Kaudie has also been a hall counselor for July Experience and, as an independent study in psychology, has been...a guest member in a group therapy session for battered women and rape victims at the Jubilee House in Statesville. Sayres has been a member of SGA, Honor Council, and several interest groups on campus. It would be difficult to make a bad choice in this election, unless you choose not to vote. Please consider us.

We asked candidates for each contested office to respond to three questions: 1) what specific experiences qualify you for this position; 2) what do you hope to accomplish if elected; and 3) what do you consider the role of the office for which you are running? We printed all the responses we received. Due to the special circumstances of this election, we have decided with the candidates for Y-Corps president not to reprint their responses, which appeared in The Davidsonian’s Dec. 5, 1984 issue. For the Wildcat Handbook race, we will reprint the one response we received for the Dec. 5 issue with the response of the opposing candidates.

Teams Compete In Handbook Race

John Freeman and Andy Graves

The requirements for the editors of any publication are experience, organization, ingenuity, and especially dedication. We believe our attributes and ideas uniquely qualify us as co-editors of the Wildcat Handbook. We bring combined experience of seven years on high-school publications. John was the yearbook’s photography editor his junior year, rising to the position of general editor as a senior. Andy worked both in the fields of photography and journalism on his school paper.

As co-editors of the Wildcat Handbook, we would continue the fine format of the present edition while broadening the scope of its usefulness. Organizing production and layout design are key factors for successful and informative publications. We intend to devote time and effort into mere organization, assuring quality and clarity. Rising freshmen depend upon the handbook to facilitate the transition from high school to college. From first-hand experience, we know both the problems and possible solutions to common orientation side-effects. At the same time, the publication must remain informative and spark the interests of the new students in their new academic and social environment.

Freshmen are often apprehensive, confused, and uncertain about what lays in store for them. The Handbook addresses these uncertainties. We would expand the directory section to encompass information on social, academic, and athletic opportunities at Davidson, including helpful suggestions to help ease the strain of adjustment. As rising freshmen enter their new life, orientation fades as the key function of the handbook. Instead, freshmen use the handbook as a reference guide. Yet time and time again, freshmen are besieged with the problem of locating classmates and peers in the initial weeks without the telephone directory to aid in room numbers. If at all possible, room numbers and even home addresses would be included with the traditional picture identification section. With these improvements, the Wildcat Handbook can better serve both orientation and reference functions. With educated co-editors, the 1985-86 Handbook will become a more valuable tool for incoming freshmen.

Laurin de Beck and Alice Reeves

The Wildcat Handbook is most important and useful in easing the freshmen’s transition into the Davidson way of life. As editors of the Handbook, we believe that we can be of great help in familiarizing the freshmen with Davidson. We realize the importance of the Handbook to not only the freshmen, but to everyone here on campus. We are planning an exciting, different, and fun handbook that will be filled with concise and useful information. We believe that as editors we are a good combination of experience — Laurin was editor and layout her high school literary magazine which won an award in the Virginia High School league competition, Alice serves as Vice-President of Warner Hall and is coordinator of all Freshmen Activities. We are both artistic and creative and have some wonderful ideas for the handbook — and are eager for anyone else’s ideas.

We both will work hard to ensure everyone will find the 1985-86 Wildcat Handbook useful and informative. We would appreciate your support on Tuesday!

Dana Lemon and Pepper Bego

1) Dana’s experience: High school yearbook staff, BSC Publicity Chairperson (1983-84); Special Events Chairperson (1984-85); Active involvement in a variety of campus activities including SGA, IMAC council, College Union, Gospel Choir. Pepper’s experience: (Davidson College basketball) high school yearbook staff, BSC Bulletin Board (e.g. Fire in My Bones, Spring 1984) and other publicity.

2) Our main goal would be to create a freshman handbook that is informative and entertaining, one that would enable the freshman class to make a smooth transition into Davidson College life and community. We hope to involve more of the campus and community in the creation and production of the handbook.

3) The editor’s responsibility: creation and production of a well-organized and informative handbook that can serve as a reference source to be used before and especially after arrival at Davidson.

EXCITING SUMMER JOB for College students and faculty. Summer camp needs Counselors in tennis, hiking, rock climbing, waterski, sailing, kayak, canoe, etc. Salary includes room and food. Reply now to: Ben C. Cart, Box 100, Cedar Mtn. NC 28718 or call (704) 884-5388.