14

There is more to Amadeus than music, sets

By LAURIE BALLENGER

Amadeus. A four-hour presentation of classical music and eighteenth-century costumes. A boring fine arts film. A movie of poor acting
and antiquated plot. WRONG! Amadeus is the definition of A MOTION PICTURE. What makes Amadeus fascinating is its complex characters.

The story concerns the 1780s rivalry between Salieri, court composer of Emperor Joseph II of Austria, and Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart,
one of the most talented musicians in history.

The story opens as Salieri sits alone, old and neglected in an asylum. He looks back to memories of the
past, to events leading to Mozart’s death in 1791. He cannot grasp the fact that he, a pious religious soul,
is, in his own words, “the patron saint of mediocrity” while “God speaks through that infantile creature.” Even more ironic
is that it is Salieri, not Mozart, who achieves fame and fortune. But the court composer realizes Amadeus’s genius and
knows that Mozart’s “voice of God” will endure much longer than his own fleeting fame in the feeble court of
Vienna. Overcome by jealousy, the sly Salieri sets out to destroy the young genius.

What makes Amadeus a film to see? Not the sets, even though there are magnificent Czechoslovakian palaces. Not the costumes,
even though the wigs are hysterically funny and the tapestries and brocades beautiful. It is the realistic characters and, of
course, the complex plot itself. Salieri (F. Murray Abraham) appears to be crafty, sly, unattractive, unethical — well, basically, a
slime. But as the story unfolds, we can understand his utter frustration more easily. He is doomed to listen to
beautiful music which he can appreciate but not produce, and he lives long enough to see his own short-lived fame
eclipsed by his rival. Mozart (Tom Hulce) can be arrogant, infantile, smutty, and he possesses a giggle of incomparable obnoxiousness.
But we can also understand his faults. He is simply so brilliant that he cannot help his arrogance; in fact,
he doesn’t even realize when he’s being insulting.

Mozart’s wife Constanza also deserves recognition. While she can also be childlike, her plucky practicality and devotion to her husband
make her a memorable character.

Before Milos Forman made the motion picture, Amadeus was a hit Broadway play. The film is more elaborate (this is
expected — after all, you can do a lot more in a movie), and Salieri inspires a bit more sympathy.

See it! Laugh at Mozart’s giggle, commiserate with Constanza, watch Salieri plot and listen to the music of one of
the great masters. But above all, you will have seen A MOTION PICTURE.

Amadeus will be shown Dec. 13 at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium and Dec. 14 at 3 p.m. and 8
p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Tom Hulce as Mozart.

Thursday, December 12, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Depository Libraries...

Your Source for Government Information

Information from the Federal Government — on subjects ranging from agriculture to zoology — is available at more than 1,380
Depository Libraries throughout the United States. The Federal Depository Library Program.

After you're done with school, you face one of the hardest lessons in life:

Without experience, it’s tough to get a job. And without a job, it’s tough to get experience.

At The Wall Street Journal, we recognize that experience is something you don't start earning until graduation.

But while you're waiting, we can give you a head start by providing some of the same competitive advantages that
experience brings.

For instance, our wide-ranging news coverage gives you a clearer understanding of the whole complex world of business. Our tightly
focused feature reporting prepares you for your more specific ambitions — whether in management, marketing, accounting, finance, technology, or small
business. And our in-depth analysis helps you formulate your ideas in a sharper and more persuasive way.

Call 800-257-1200 ext. 806 — or mail the coupon — and start your subscription to The Wall Street Journal at
student savings of up to $44 off the regular subscription price. It’s a pretty generous offer. Especially when you consider
what it actually represents. Tuition for the real world.

To subscribe, call 800-257-1200 ext. 806 toll-free, or mail to: The Wall Street Journal, 200 Burnett Road, Chicopee, MA 01021.

Send me one year of The Wall Street Journal for $65 — a saving of $44 off the regular subscription
price.
Send me 15 weeks for $26.
Payment enclosed.
Bill me later.

Name:
Student I.D. #:
Grad. Month/Year:
Address:
City:
State:
Zip:
School:
Major:

The Wall Street Journal.

In Pennsylvania call 800-222-3380 ext. 806. ©1985 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

camp thunderbird

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them
in their physical, mental, and spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to help each individual
child develop his or her potential should apply. One must have the ability to teach in one or more of
our specialized activities. College students, teachers, and coaches should apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is
an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is
placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery, and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing, and tripping are
extras in our excellent program. For further information write or call G. William Climer, Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 7,
Box 50, Clover, S.C., 29710 (803-831-2121).

Shalom Bike & Hike

HIKING OR BIKING IN THE HOLY LAND

Christian camping trips in Israel. Easter through October 1986. 11-21 days. $1485-2115 includes RT air and meals. Shalom Bike &
Hike, 8689 16-Mile Rd, Cedar Springs, MI 49319. (616)696-3487.
