10 Friday, January 11, 1985 / The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
Kevin Horan, Business Manager
John Gathings, Production Manager
Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor
Will Thomason, Advertising Manager
David McCurry, Circulation Manager

Cry RAPE

As with RACE, RAPE has added a new acronym to the Davidson lingo. And like RACE, RAPE is an organization long needed. Though violent rape is not a common occurrence here, certain attitudes prevalent in Davidson life tend to foster situations in which another kind of violation — “date rape” — can occur. No one knows how often these crimes occur; many go unreported because of the ambiguity of the offense. The situation appears neutral, the victim knows her attacker, and the attacker may not even realize what he is doing is rape.

The attitude exists in some circles here — especially in some fraternities — that to be a member of the group, or a “real” man, or whatever, one must achieve sexual conquests. The attempted conquests are more often than not fueled by alcohol, further blurring the already fine line between seduction and subtle rape. Another dangerous attitude can be found in some male students’ assumptions about the roles of women. Beyond the clichéd perception of women as sex objects lies the more dangerous feeling that women owe men their bodies in any case — that women ought to have sex with them because that’s the way it’s supposed to be.

Some women, too, sometimes unwittingly aid these perceptions and their results by being uninformed about the hidden agendas of social situations, especially those of college life. Others find nowhere to turn after the fact, so the violation remains secret — both to those who committed it and those who would attack the attitudes that caused it. The RAPE Committee, then, must work to dismantle these unhealthy attitudes. If it can do that, as well as provide counseling and legal help for victims, it will become, like the RACE Committee has, more than just another acronym.

A Thankless Job

It’s time again to choose next year’s hall counselors. That there is stiff competition for hall counselor positions every year usually ensures that Davidson gets the best counselors it can. Hall counselors wield much influence; they determine how the Code of Responsibility is enforced among freshmen. They introduce freshmen to life at Davidson: the Honor Code, flickerball, and the time-worn rituals of mixers.

Unfortunately, the hall counselor program has suffered abuses in the past. For example, hall counselors have used their halls as recruiting grounds for their eating house or fraternity. Rules against illegal drug and alcohol use are ignored on some halls and enforced on others. Yet despite some problems, the program enjoys the devotion of many students who at times carry out a thankless job. The deadline for sophomores to apply to be a hall counselor is next Tuesday. Living like a freshman again as a hall counselor serves as one way to give back a little of what you’ve gotten from Davidson.

Just A Thought

While we do not claim to be in a position to cast the first stone, we could not resist passing on this tidbit of editorial oversight from The Mecklenburg Gazette's “Around Davidson” column: “We have learned about two students accepted early for Davidson’s next academic year: Marion Stone, daughter of Bob and Genie, and Robert Avinger, Jr., son of Bob and Jane of Davidson.” Bet they have great family reunions.

Letters

Elections

To the Editors:

Questions concerning the adequacy of publicity for the sign-up period for the winter term elections of student offices led to the convening of the SGA on Monday, Dec. 10. At this meeting, the decision was made that the publicity conducted by the Elections Council was inadequate, and therefore the sign-up period should be continued until Jan. 8. The elections that were to be held on Dec. 11 were postponed until Jan. 15.

Due to this decision, the candidates who had signed up during the appropriate period have been greatly inconvenienced and those groups who will have offices filled by these elections have had to endure these alterations. Furthermore, these candidates were not informed that the elections might be postponed before the SGA convened on Dec. 10, and therefore, did not have the opportunity to make comments at the SGA unless they had learned of the meeting by chance. The Elections Council argued...the case that these candidates would be inconvenienced, but the SGA felt that the only recourse was to postpone the elections in light of the situation. For the problems and inconveniences caused by these actions and decisions, I apologize on behalf of the SGA to the Y Student Service Corps, which had conducted its own publicity of the contested election for Y president, to those candidates who campaigned thinking the election was to be held Dec. 11, and to those groups that were forced to delay their leadership transitions. We regret that the postponement had to occur, and we hope that the problems caused will not further disrupt student group activities.

John Laughlin, SGA President

Why Wait?

To the Editors:

Aaron Taylor’s letter to the editor (12 December) was disturbing because it rings all too familiar. There are two things about Taylor’s letter that are problematic: first, his assumption that admission of 100 Black students and 10 Black professors by 1987 would be “disastrous.” His answer to this impending disaster is the second problem — he asks that we “proceed cautiously — and slowly if necessary...”

Taylor says “naturally Davidson will seek quantity and quality when it begins to expand its minority base...” Expansion will of course require quantitative changes — that part of the statement is ridiculous. But the real problem rests in the fact that Taylor felt it necessary to make such a statement at all. Why is it that whenever a discussion arises concerning an increase in the Black presence on this campus, White members of the College community automatically begin discussing issues of quality control? There is a spontaneous assumption that a reciprocal relationship exists between increased numbers and decreased academic quality. Taylor’s statement doesn’t reassure anyone; rather, it makes me wonder why he made the statement at all. Why does it even come up?

The argument that there are few qualified Blacks “out there” and therefore we must compromise to get increased numbers is a myth. White students and faculty ‘out there’ capable of meeting Davidson’s standards are a minority, but you do not consider it a compromise in standards to set quantitative goals when White people are concerned. There are plenty of qualified Blacks “out there” but you’ll have to stop looking in white prep schools and graduate schools. We are sick of White people automatically assuming that Black means inferior. And how dare you ask us to wait?

Taylor suggests that ten years as a time frame for change is more “realistic.” It’s also unjust. I think that Dr. Martin Luther King in his “Letter from a Birmingham Jail,” stated best how we feel about waiting:

For years now I have heard the word “Wait.” This “wait” has always meant “Never.” It has been a tranquilizing thalidomide, relieving the emotional stress for a moment only to give birth to an ill-formed infant of frustration. We must come to see with the distinguished jurist of yesterday that “justice too long delayed is justice denied.” We have waited for more than three hundred years... for our constitutional and God-given rights.

If rapid change frightens you, then too bad. We cannot say that we are sorry, nor can we apologize for the inconvenience. We have been ‘inconvenienced’ for centuries — try to understand our impatience now. So Davidson, wait if you want — you’ll wake up one day to find yourself discredited and obsolete. Black people have survived, prospered, and made it in spite of those who would have stopped us. We shall continue and we shall not do so by your timetables. Davidson’s option therefore, is simply whether it will demand progress or stand in its way — the choice is up to you.

Janet Stovall

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere to these four guidelines:
1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2) We require that letters be neatly typed.
3) We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.
4) We reserve the right not to print letters that a) function as advertisements; b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes; c) represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed on the same topic.