Friday, May 10, 1985

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Who's On First?
By ANDY BARRON

Davidson College prides itself on its tradition as a superior institution of higher learning that encourages clear thinking. Unfortunately, foresight took a backseat to a quick fix proposal when the Trustees met last Friday to determine the future of Davidson football. By voting to join the new Colonial League in 1987, the Trustees signed a death certificate to Davidson’s almost 50-year association with the Southern Conference.

The decision did not surprise me, but it did disappoint me. I have been excited about the future of Davidson’s football program since Vic Gatto signed on as the new head coach. In Gatto, Davidson has a coach with the enthusiasm and football knowledge necessary to rebuild the program. But no coach can produce a winner without support, especially from such an important group as the Trustees. Yet instead of giving Gatto support, such as additional financial assistance, the Trustees took away part of the Davidson football package; Davidson’s Southern Conference affiliation exists no longer.

The Trustees have long followed a philosophy that Davidson doesn’t need a first-class football program. Top-quality football demands more financial support than the Trustees are willing to consider, much less approve. The term “football scholarship” seems to stop a lot of administrative hearts on this campus. Why? To win games, Davidson should try to attract quality student-athletes, not lower the quality of their opponents. The only way to consistently do this is through scholarships. Why can't Davidson give, say, 20 scholarships, or 15, or ten, or ten partial scholarships? An infusion of ten big linemen would help the football program immensely. I don’t believe I am the only person who would like to see Davidson put more money into football and enable the team to compete in the Southern Conference.

I’m sure that economics play a major role in the Trustees’ apprehension toward granting athletic scholarships. The basketball team can afford scholarships while football can't because fewer players are needed to field a basketball team than a football team. Yet the tremendous costs of transporting the football team to New England three to five times every fall term don’t seem to bother the Trustees. In addition, nobody seems concerned about the extra travel costs that the baseball, basketball, and soccer teams will accumulate when they travel to play more distant opponents rather than Southern Conference teams. It seems to me that a lot of money will be going into gasoline that could be spent on equipment, facility improvement, recruiting, and SCHOLARSHIPS for the football program.

I must say that Davidson has yet to be ousted from the Southern Conference. However, the comments from people such as Appalachian State's athletic director Jim Garner do not make me think Davidson will be in the Southern Conference after next year. Garner expressed his fear that Davidson was pouring all its money into basketball. By allowing Davidson not to compete in Southern Conference football, according to Garner, the Conference would be giving Davidson an unfair advantage in basketball. According to Davidson's own press release concerning the change in football, “Conference affiliation for these teams (the other men’s varsity sports) is currently being pursued.” No one seems to believe Davidson will be a member of the Southern Conference for much longer.

My strongest misgiving concerning the Colonial League is that this move doesn’t ensure a better record for Davidson football. As stated earlier, I believe Coach Gatto will improve the quality of play of Davidson football. Yet Davidson has proven they can lose to Guilford as easily as Western Carolina over the last few years. Hopefully, Davidson will win consistently in the Colonial League. Without more quality players, however, Davidson’s only gain by moving to the Colonial League will be longer rides home after losing.

The quick-fix approach used by the Trustees is completely inappropriate for Davidson. Davidson has long prided itself on being David taking on Goliath. The big games at Davidson are against ACC opponents, Appalachian State, and...

Women's Tennis Finishes Second In NCAA
By PATRICIA HAHN

The Davidson women's tennis team’s bid to repeat last year’s National Championship ended in an 8-1 loss to the University of California at San Diego in the final round. Davidson began the NCAA Division II women’s tennis championship tournament strong by defeating Pomona-Pitzer 6-3 and Franklin and Marshall 5-2 (number 1 and 3 doubles were not completed). Strong singles play from junior Caroline Barclay, freshman Amy McNelis, and sophomore Debbie Podolin formed the core of Davidson’s advance into the final round. These victories moved the Lady Cats into the final match against the University of California at San Diego. Podolin gained the single match point for Davidson when she defeated San Diego’s number four player 7-5, 3-6, 6-2. Principia College defeated Franklin and Marshall 7-2 to take third place.

After most of the team returned to Davidson, Barclay and McNelis competed in the individual singles...and doubles championship competitions. Both advanced to the quarterfinals in both singles and doubles before losing. Although Davidson was unable to reclaim the national title, the team, under the direction of Coach Caroline Brown, finished the season with a 21-6 record, an improvement on last year’s record of 17-6. This marks their eleventh straight winning season. Graduation will remove seniors Tricia Ives and Sarah Patterson from next year's roster. “A significant loss,” according to Coach Brown, “but this team is highly capable of jumping hurdles—we will have our top four returning and this team is fourteen members strong.” The team also looks forward to the arrival of freshman talent next fall.

Is The Colonial League Right For Davidson?

Furman in soccer, and Marshall and UT-Chattanooga in basketball. Playing Erskine and Warren Wilson doesn’t excite me because these opponents don’t fit my idea of Goliath. Duke, North Carolina, and Notre Dame are the Goliaths I imagine Davidson slaying. Even when Davidson loses, these games are more fun than any Wofford “battle.” I can’t imagine ever seeing Lehigh in the same way I look at St. John’s. Though Davidson’s Southern Conference foes are generally no threat to achieve national attention, the schools that compose the Southern Conference are Davidson’s TRADITIONAL opponents. It seems strange that a young hothead like me should be reminding the Trustees of this school about tradition. Leaving the Southern Conference means no more home basketball games against Marshall, UTC, and all their fans. I'm sure George Mason is a solid school, but how tense will the atmosphere be in Johnston Gym when the Patriots and half-a-dozen of their fans “invade.” Hard to imagine missing the Thundering Herd, but I think I already do.

By mentioning George Mason as a possible basketball opponent, I'm assuming Davidson will be able to join the ECAC South. Right now, no one knows what, if any, conference Davidson will be in three years from now. Conference affiliation is important to a sports program, especially basketball, for many reasons. Without conferences, there are no conference championships. Davidson's baseball team would not be South Division champions without a conference. Conferences also allow recognition for outstanding individual efforts such as baseball Coach George Greer being named Southern Conference Coach of the Year. Basketball depends heavily on the many benefits of conference affiliation. Winning the conference tournament allows the team to play in the NCAA tournament. Success in post-season tournaments is the goal of any college basketball program. Also, success in the NCAA tournament translates to money, big money, for the school. Money is the straw that stirs the drink that is college sports; money is why Davidson's football team isn’t remaining in the Southern Conference.

“I’m concerned about the lack of certainty surrounding our program caused by changing football conferences,” said basketball Coach Bobby Hussey. “Conference affiliation is very important to our program because it gives us a definite set of opponents and a direct path to the NCAA tournament. Without a conference to play in, it is very difficult to recruit great players. I'm also concerned about the feasibility of any conference we would join. Traveling is already very difficult for the players due to the academic success expected of them. The added distance we would have to travel would mean missing more classes and putting more of a strain on our players.”

The move from the Southern Conference comes at a time when Davidson is doing very well in the conference. The soccer team has challenged for the league title for the last couple of years and is expected to continue to improve. The baseball team loses no one from this year's South Division championship team. The tennis team continues to finish high in the conference every year and has a horde of underclassmen already playing key roles. The basketball team loses no one from last year’s exciting squad. With the exception of football, Davidson is competitive in the Southern Conference. For next year, at least, Davidson will be in the Southern Conference. After that, nothing is certain except that the football team will get to travel a lot. With a new conference, a new athletic director, and a new football coach, the dust hasn't had a chance to settle lately. As athletic director Kit Morris, the Trustees, and the other powers that be, plot Davidson's athletic course for the near future, more changes in the status quo will be made. The Trustees' decision regarding football remains unlike Davidson: the decision was fast, bold, and broke with tradition. The repercussions of this decision will be with Davidson for a long time. Yes, the times they are a-changing. I wish I felt they were changing for the better.

Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St.
Davidson, N.C. 28036
892-7521

and other Mother’s Day Gifts.

CAROLINA BANK
Davidson 892-7815
I-77 at Hwy 73 Cornelius/Lake
137 N. Main St.
Norman 892-7805