Friday, September 27, 1985
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson — a weekly news summary
By JANE AURELL

Headlining the news for the week of September 19-25:

Internationally—
A violent earthquake rocked parts of Mexico City causing massive death and destruction; an unofficial 15,000 persons are feared dead. Nancy Reagan visited the devastated area, bringing with her a check for $1 million as a “down payment” on aid from the U.S. The world has responded generously to Mexico’s plight. After one week of attacks, South Africa withdrew her troops from Angola, but Pretoria announced that it will support the rebels fighting Angola’s Marxist government. President Botha set stringent conditions for talking with the African National Congress (ANC), the main concern being the ANC’s ties with Moscow. Anti-apartheid spokesman Rev. Allan Boesak, charged with subversion and terrorism, was released from prison on $8,000 bail.

In a major about-face, the French government admitted involvement in the July sinking of the Greenpeace ship in New Zealand. The Rainbow Warrior was preparing to lead a protest of French nuclear testing in the South Pacific. New Zealand is accusing France of state-backed terrorism. Elsewhere in the world: In Moscow, the KGB arrested a Soviet citizen on charges of spying for the U.S.; this is the third such arrest in two years. Last Saturday marked the sixth year of fighting between Iran and Iraq. China’s Communist Party, in a continuation of its rejuvenation measures, appointed 62 new members to its central committee and promoted six younger policymakers to the Politburo; these new appointments replace last week’s retirees. Also, the U.S. is negotiating a possible arms sale to China. The governments of North and South Korea arranged for “war-torn” families to be reunited after 40 years of separation. Margaret Thatcher visited the Middle East as part of the ongoing effort to create the framework for a regional peace conference which would also involve the U.S. and U.S.S.R.; to date, this laudable goal has not been accomplished. Monday marked the beginning of the United Nation’s 40th General Assembly.

Domestically—
The trade policy war between Congress and the President continues. Reagan announced a series of retaliatory measures against unfair trading practices from abroad and pledged to enforce adherence to existing trade agreements. The Defense Department announced plans to test all military personnel going overseas for evidence of the AIDS virus; testing of new military recruits has already begun. The results of Reagan’s post-operative exam indicate a full recovery. Finally, what may turn out to be the worst storm of the century, Hurricane Gloria is threatening the entire U.S. east coast.

Thought for the week:
“The heartbeat of the human race is knowledge-in-process, a constant and dedicated activity of learning more about ourselves and our proper place in the universe.” — Sidney Harris

Rusk Program Broadens International Perspective
By DAVID WILLIAMS

Former Secretary of State Dean Rusk ’31 has stated, “As today’s young people face the coming decades, it is apparent that the human race is moving into a new and critical chapter of its long history. Homo sapiens now faces a series of problems which are different in kind or scale from those we have faced before and which will require tolerable answers within the next three or four decades if the Family of Man is to avoid catastrophe... I am deeply convinced that this generation of young people now in our schools and colleges is destined to write a unique chapter in the history of the human race. Our older generations must do all we can to prepare them for the critical challenges ahead. There remains much to be done, requiring as much imagination, creativity, sanity, tolerance, and courage as can be found. Davidson College has a vital role to play in this effort.”

Acting in accordance with this idea, the Davidson College Trustees voted unanimously on May 6, 1983 to establish the Dean Rusk Endowment for International Studies, “honoring Davidson's most distinguished alumnus.” In September 1985, the dreams of...The Trustees are becoming reality. The Dean Rusk Program for International Studies has commenced in the Carolina Inn on Main Street. The primary aim of the Dean Rusk Program is “to give each student, first, an informed awareness of our whole planet, and second, direct knowledge of at least one foreign area,” as stated in the Prospectus of the program. College president John Kuykendall has added that, “No student should graduate without exposure to an international education. The Dean Rusk Program should not be a separate school but a dimension in the total Davidson experience. It should capture the imagination of every student.”

On the personal recommendation of Rusk, former ambassador to Bulgaria Jack Perry became director of the program. Perry has already taken several steps to get the program moving, and at present, the program comprises five areas: “Bringing good speakers on international affairs to the school;” the 4:30 Thursday forum, which is “an informal get-together for discussion of world affairs;” counseling students on international careers, as well as graduate school; “a series of speakers on world affairs as they affect other careers,” such as medicine, law, and ministry; and the establishment of a graduate school catalog library.

The forum has been successful in its first two weeks. In the opening forum last week, the Davidson International students were introduced to the College Community. Yesterday, returning JYA’ers discussed their experiences in Marburg, Montpelier, and other JYA programs. “Aside from these projects,” Perry stated, “we are feeling our way.” One area of concentration is the faculty. “They are the heart of the program. We are trying to get the faculty involved, to secure grants, and raise money for the faculty, so that they can attend conferences and do research abroad. We also will be striving for curriculum enrichment in the College.”

A Student Advisory Committee for the Program was established two years ago. Member Paulette Kuranj stated that the committee is “here to provide a student perspective on international education at Davidson and to give Dr. Perry a link to the student body.” Other members of this committee, which “meets regularly to discuss issues of international awareness on campus,” include Mary Mulhern, Lisa Anderson, Julie Sternal, Laura Rainey, Charles Tambiah, and Mark Sandy.

Perry emphasized that the program is just getting started. He added that “the program is not a major” such as the Center for Special Studies, but is instead “an across-the-board program to enhance the international dimension of a Davidson education.”

Trustee Blaine Kelley, Jr. and Development Officer Jerry Stockdale dreamed up the Program while working on a fundraising campaign in early 1983. “The Program itself was an outgrowth of regional campaign ideas,” said Stockdale. “It was felt that the college ought to honor Dean Rusk, and that it should honor him in a big way. Since the college already had so much interest in international studies, why not bring it all together into a unified program?” Kelley and Stockdale, along with Kuykendall, have played a major part in raising the funds necessary for the development and endowment of the Program. At present, $2.6 million of a goal of $10 million has been raised. “Many proposals and grants have been submitted by corporations and foundations,” said Stockdale. Last week the Ford Foundation granted $100,000 to the Program to bring visiting speakers and scholars to the campus. “The plan being developed now is to try to complete the campaign through large gifts, rather than through a widespread campaign. The idea of building up an endowment is to create support for the program in perpetuity.”

On October 24, Rusk will appear at Davidson for the official inauguration of the Program. He will participate in a panel discussion on current international affairs with students as part of the Convocation program. “Wouldn't it be great,” said Perry, “if we could raise the rest (of our financial goal) by 1989, Mr. Rusk’s 80th birthday year?”