Friday, April 18, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Joe Jackson cursed with purity
Short Takes
By LEE EICHELBERGER

Joe Jackson
Big World
A&M Records CS 6021

Joe Jackson has fallen victim to a curse that is rare in popular music, the curse of purity. His last
album, Body and Soul, was recorded live (without an audience or overdubs) in a large music hall in NYC. And
that’s fine. It sounded great. It was a joy to listen to. Best of all, I suppose, Joe didn’t prostitute
any of those sacred musical values of his. But now, Joe's values have “evolved.” For his new album, Big World,
things have gotten even simpler. Not only is he playing in small acoustically satisfying clubs, not only is he using
only a two-track recorder (as opposed to 16, 24, or 32) and no overdubs, but he is playing in front
of a real LIVE audience who don’t even cheer or applaud. Well, I’m certainly impressed. It really does sound great.
But, uh, Joe, what about the songwriting? Songwriting? You mean the sound? The songs sure sound good. This is Jackson's
fatal mistake. He has lost himself in the sound of his own music and forgotten the songs themselves. But I
guess that this is a lot like a live show, I mean if you've had a few beers, turn off
the brain, and listen. But if Joe Jackson really wants to bring live music in its “pure” form to the
public, why doesn’t he tour more often? If he’s going to make records at all, why ignore or rebel against
that convention? The eventual result on Big World is that all the songs sound good, but they almost all sound
the same. The standouts are “Wild West,” “The Jet Set,” “Right and Wrong,” “We Can’t Live Together,” and “Forty Years.”
In fact, these songs could have made a really striking live EP, but as it is there are ten other
songs that are hardly distinguishable from most of Jackson’s work in the last several years. Not to say that this
is a bad album. If you like Joe Jackson, you'll really like this record. But if you expect a lot
of him you'll be disappointed.

Robyn Hitchcock and the Egyptians
Fegmania
Slash Records 25316-1

Wednesday afternoon. One record review down, one to go. “Hey guys... Do you know any interesting records that have come
out lately?” “Yeah Lee, there is this really neat record by Robyn Hitchcock and the Egyptians. It's called Fegmania.” (Lee
doubtfully) “Fegmania... Really?” I admit it. I was incredulous. Fegmania is not the sort of album that you expect in
1986. This record would have been more at home in 1968. It uses a combination of psychedelic lyrics and new
wave (I mean that in the sense of that revolutionary period of '77-'81) musical values. The songs are either disturbingly
surreal or humorously absurd. From the giddy, “My Wife and My Dead Wife,” to the enthralling “Heaven,” this album entertains
unabashedly without pretense. And since the album sets out to do little more than engage its audience, it is probably
one of the most successful albums I have heard in months. The music works in layers, not only referring to
older styles, but diving into unknown depths of the absurd. Through it all, the musical quality endears the listener despite
the alienating lyrics. Favorite tracks include: “Another Bubble,” “The Man With the Lightbulb Head,” “Strawberry Mind,” “Glass,” and “Heaven.” But
Fegmania is not for everybody. If you are looking for a record that is titillating, interesting, and simply fun, I
recommend Fegmania.

Council member Mayhew discusses town
By NELLE MCCORKLE

William B. (W.B.) Mayhew, town council member, has sold hotdogs, improved streets, and dressed as Santa Claus, all for the
benefit of Davidson. Retired from the position of postmaster since 1980, Mayhew was born in Cornelius and moved to Davidson
in 1926. His father worked on the college maintenance crew, and Mayhew grew up in an on-campus house located east
of the current gymnasium. He remembers sitting on a sandpile at the age of six or seven watching construction of
the west end of the stadium. The site of the present athletic fields “was pretty much my private stomping area,”
Mayhew said. He set rabbit traps there in winter, picked blackberries on summer mornings, and caddied on...the golf course there
on summer afternoons. Cows grazed in the then undeveloped Patterson Court, and Mayhew’s father raised chickens and pigs in what
is now a parking lot adjacent to Richardson dormitory. “It’s grown,” Mayhew said of the college, “but in a nice,
slow way, just the way we hope the town will.” He called the town “an island of tranquility surrounded by
all these people who want to build.” He predicted limited geographic expansion for the town because of the closeness of
Cornelius to the south and Lake Norman to the west, although he noted recent annexation of lake condominium developments. Mayhew
praised the town government’s continuity, and mentioned a long-term plan to build a town park across from Ingersoll-Rand. While serving
on the governor's Transportation Efficiency Council for the past four years, he has worked for local street improvement; currently, he
represents Davidson on the Charlotte/Mecklenburg Metropolitan Planning Organization for transportation. “We are going through the biggest change in Davidson,” Mayhew
said. “Bob Currie aptly put it, ‘You couldn't stop in the street and carry on a conversation with your neighbor
anymore.’” Mayhew called the college, Ingersoll Rand, Colt Manufacturing, and Talley Industries’ General Time Instruments, Inc. major local industries. He
anticipates increased effects of Lake Norman development: “Davidson Landing will make a big difference if those people become year-round citizens.
They can march over to the ballot box and change things.”

The site of the present athletic fields ‘was pretty much my private stomping area.’ Asked to characterize Davidson as compared
to other towns of its size, Mayhew said, “What sets Davidson apart as much as anything else are the people.
I don't think I’ve ever seen anybody in need... that wasn't helped.” He cited townspeople’s donations of toys and cash
to needy local families at Christmas; although he can't remember how the custom began, Mayhew distributes the gifts in costume.
Mayhew became involved in helping Gene McEver and others maintain a weekend concession stand to raise funds for Davidson Youth
Baseball Program because “We needed something to keep it going and of course I like to cook anyway... Gene always
tried to schedule the games to begin or end at mealtimes.” The concession stand helped finance McEver Field which is
located on South Street and was built and maintained without tax money. The field is the site of the State
Pony League Championship. At the Davidson Methodist Church, Mayhew currently chairs the Official Board. He is a past Master and
Secretary of the Davidson Masonic Lodge. During his term as Postmaster, Mayhew oversaw two building changes. He worked for Charlotte
Wholesaler Allison Erwin before becoming employed by the Post Office; he also served a four-year stint in the Army, stationed
in Atlanta, Korea, and Okinawa, Japan. “One agreement I had with my wife when we married was that as soon
as I get out of this man’s Army, we're going to Davidson.” Mayhew and his wife Joy have a son
and a daughter and one grandson. When away from civic, church, and home responsibilities, Mayhew fly-fishes with English professor Frank
Bliss in nearby ponds. Mayhew said he told Bliss, “I'll have to blindfold you and swear you to secrecy regarding
their fishing location. The first time we went, he came out of the house with a bag over his head.”
“If you're going to live in a town, you've got to pay your dues, so to speak,” Mayhew said. “I
have a concern for the town; I have a concern for the people. If you've lived here as long as
I have, I think you'll feel that way too."

Along Main Street is a regular feature spotlighting different individuals in Davidson, whom students may pass in the street but
wish to know better. Please submit suggestions for your favorite Davidsonian to the editors.

The Best Pie for the Best Buy!!! CAMPUS DELIVERY SERVICE CALL 892-8686 Mon.-Sun. 8:30-11:45 p.m. Clip this coupon for $1
OFF any large pizza delivery Along with our back porch, we’ve added beer or wine by the glass, and super
supper sandwiches!!! $1 cover. 50¢ Delivery Charge valid from April 20-27.
