Friday, April 11, 1986

THE DAVIDSONIAN

— Beyond Davidson —

By DAVID WILLIAMS

Headlining the events of April 6-10

Internationally —

Three terrorist groups claimed responsibility for the bombing of a crowded West Berlin discotheque in which a U.S. serviceman and a Turkish woman were killed and 155 persons were injured, including 60 Americans. West German and U.S. officials said they have clear indications Libya was involved in the bombing and said a Libyan diplomat based in East Berlin is suspected of directing the attack. In a nationally televised news conference, President Reagan called Libyan Col. Muammar Qaddafi the “mad dog of the East” and said the U.S. will retaliate for recent terrorist attacks if they can be linked to Libya. Qaddafi said plans for a military confrontation with the United States are complete and that a U.S. attack would trigger retaliation against American targets around the world. West German officials expelled two Libyan diplomats and France expelled four Arabs, including two Libyan diplomats, following reports that the U.S. embassy in Paris is a potential target for terrorists.

Israeli warplanes flew through a barrage of ground fire and bombed Palestinian guerrilla strongholds near Sidon, Lebanon. A car bomb exploded in the Christian town of Jounieh, Lebanon, killing at least 10 persons, wounding 100 others and setting a number of buildings ablaze. Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres announced his intention to fire Finance Minister Yitzhak Modai, who has repeatedly criticized Peres’ economic policies. Deputy Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir said the Israeli government would be overthrown if Peres fires Modai.

Meeting with Arab leaders in Manama, Bahrain, Vice-President George Bush said the United States and Saudi Arabia found no “common solution” to the problem of stabilizing the oil market in three days of talks. Bush told King Fahd of Saudi Arabia that the U.S. does not blame the Saudis for the collapse in oil prices and promised the Saudis that the U.S. will supply weapons to them to keep the Iran-Iraq war from spreading there.

Departing Soviet Ambassador Anatoly Dobrynin told President Reagan that Moscow is ready to schedule a high-level meeting next month to prepare for a future summit. Secretary of State George Schultz said he will meet Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze in mid-May to initiate “a major push” toward a summit. Soviet and Afghan jets blasted rebel positions in Afghanistan’s strategic Paktia province as elite commando units attempted to encircle the insurgents. CIA Director William Casey said that Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev was seeking “bridgeheads” for spreading subversion and terrorism in the Middle East, Central America, and Africa.

A senior Mexican government aviation official said that an explosion apparently caused the March 31 crash of a Mexicana Airlines jet that killed all aboard. Officials do not yet know what caused the explosion. U.S. Ambassador to Mexico John Gavin announced he will resign next month.

Eight Latin American foreign ministers met in Panama City, Florida in an attempt to breathe new life into the Contadora peace talks as an alternative to U.S. aid for Nicaraguan contras. Reagan officials said the contras, under U.S. pressure, have appointed a Miami businessman to help rebut criticism that contra forces have close ties to late dictator Anastasio Somoza’s regime.

Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger met with President Corazon Aquino of the Philippines and emphasized economic, rather than military aid to the new government. Speaking from exile in Hawaii, former President Marcos called on the army that rebelled against him to support President Aquino. Philippines officials are currently investigating a robbery suspect's assertion that he was hired to assassinate Aquino at an outdoor rally in early March but backed out at the last minute. New York Land Co. executives Joseph and Ralph Bernstein admitted to a House subcommittee they had brokered multi-million dollar New York City real estate deals for Ferdinand and Imelda Marcos before he was deposed.

The Pentagon disclosed that it will sell $550 million worth of sophisticated radar and computers to China, the first major sale of U.S. military equipment to that nation. Sixty thousand South Koreans protested in the streets of Taegu against President Chun Doo Hwan’s government, on the same day Chun left for a visit to Western Europe.

Black nationalist leader Winnie Mandela called upon South Africa’s 25 million blacks to begin a “direct-action” campaign to end apartheid and oust the country’s minority white government. South African newspapers circumvented a government ban and quoted Mandela's remarks for the first time in eleven years. Blacks began a consumer boycott against white businesses in Port Elizabeth.

National News —

Informed government sources said Paul Volcker, Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, is expected to leave his post when his term expires next year, because of heavy criticism from White House Chief of Staff Donald Regan and other senior Reagan administration officials.

NASA Investigator James Thompson revealed that the booster joint suspected of triggering the Challenger disaster was inadequately designed and that the space agency paid too little attention to such problems on earlier flights. Investigator Terry Armentrout also said that wreckage of the shuttle reveals that the nose section containing the crew compartment hit the ocean relatively intact, contrary to earlier reports.

Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole put off indefinitely floor consideration of a bipartisan budget plan approved by the Senate Budget Committee last month, indicating that the Senate and the House will probably not meet next week’s budget deadline.

In a major victory for the National Rifle Association, the House rejected two amendments that...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

would retain current handgun control restrictions. In Chicago, a heavily armed man who held a woman hostage after killing his landlord surrendered peacefully after holding a marathon standoff with police. An industrial park in San Francisco exploded and burned, leaving seven persons missing and causing at least $10 million in damage. The Supreme Court ruled that a criminal defendant does not automatically have the right to fully cross-examine every witness who testifies against him. The Civil Rights Commission released a report citing rampant corruption and fraud as reasons the commission will consider calling for an end to federal programs that reserve contracts for minority businesses. The President's Blue Ribbon Commission on Defense Spending said that if the Pentagon adopted practices common to private industry, it should be able to cut in half the time it takes to design and build weapons, and savings on acquisitions would amount to tens of billions of dollars. A congressional investigation found that the Air Force spent more than $1 billion on new spare-parts contracts in the last 12 days of December trying to reduce a backlog of unspent money. Aerospace experts said technical advances and competition to sell space photographs are leading civilians to spy by satellite on military targets, including ships, submarines, and missiles. Finally, federal authorities have charged a suburban Detroit man with stealing 29,520 light bulbs that were destined for a Defense Department warehouse in California. If convicted of interstate theft charges, 28-year-old Gary Fishman could face up to 10 years in prison and $5,000 in fines.

De Lattre assesses development problems in the Sahel
By AARON LEVINE

Anne de Lattre, an expert on the economic difficulties of the African Sahel, spoke on Wednesday as part of the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies. The economic difficulties of sub-Saharan Africa (the Sahel) have been a major international issue since sub-Saharan Africa began to gain its independence in the 1950s. Speaking of the sub-Saharan African states, de Lattre said, “There was optimism about their future... yet thirty years have elapsed, it is time to make a preliminary assessment — where is Africa going?” The recent crisis in Ethiopia makes the question all the more urgent. De Lattre pointed out that population continues to outstrip economic growth and food production in the Sahel, causing recurrent famine in countries like Ethiopia. The population has been doubling in the area every 25 years. Presently, there are 44 million inhabitants in sub-Saharan Africa; by 2010, experts project that the area’s total population will be 88 million. Economic growth is still not any greater than it was in 1960. “There is a link between rapid demographic growth and the problems of a country... yet government comes up against the poverty and religion of the natives.” Certain factors such as the need for a large number of young men to help with the farming, and the need to offset the high infant mortality rate contribute to the hampering of designs to control growth. Unless some way is found to control population growth, the needs of the expanding population will snuff out the small economic gains made, according to de Lattre. In addition, more and more sub-Saharan Africans are living in urban areas. There will be a tripling of the sub-Saharan urban population by the year 2000. Fewer people in agricultural areas would mean less production of the necessary food to feed the increasing populations, unless there are substantial increases in food production rates; this would require a need for industrial injection to provide the needed implements. However, de Lattre stated, “Reversing the trend to urbanization is difficult, impossible, and probably cannot happen.” In recent years, there has been a marked increase in food imports to the Sahel from other areas. Zaire now has to import 50 percent of its food. According to de Lattre, Africa needs to develop a sufficiency or it will remain increasingly dependent on aid from the more developed nations and will also become increasingly dependent on world market fluctuations. The fragmentation of the world market, trade regulation (including internal regulation), and an underdeveloped internal transportation system among the landlocked Sahel nations have also been factors in preventing the economic development of the Sahel. However, there are prospects for a positive future. The leadership of the African states is good, there is more realism today than there was once, de Lattre said. The tradition of solidarity and reliance on self-sufficiency and the African moral and spiritual tradition also help in the growth of economic development in the Sahel. The food-for-work idea has evolved in Mauretania, yet has failed elsewhere due to lack of community, devotion, organization, and the use of money intertwined with food as payment. If it is used in countries with some experience with it, such as India, it would reap benefits. Ms. de Lattre is the Dean Rusk Program's first NCNB Distinguished Visiting Professor. De Lattre, from Paris, is the head of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's Club in Sahel. She holds a baccalaureate and a license des lettres from the Universite de Paris, a master’s degree in English literature from Columbia, and a master’s in economics and political science from the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. She has published numerous articles in Perspectives, an international economic development publication, and is completing a book on the Sahel. She began teaching at the Center for Special Studies on March 10 in French political culture and African development trends.