Wednesday, March 26, 1986  
THE DAVIDSONIAN  
Sayers Rudy  

Editors’ note: This article contains language which some readers may find offensive. This language was left in the article because we felt it was an important part of the story.

This past Christmas my friend Jon jumped over the El Al counter of the Leonardo DaVinci Airport in Rome. Jon has never been much of an athlete, but I suppose he made a pretty good jump. At the time of the jump, bullets were crashing into the walls, and into people—people who did not jump fast enough. Somehow, though, Jon survived. Which is a miracle Jon's friends hadn't planned to spend Christmas break thanking God for. But we did. Jamie, Peter, Doug, and I. We all gathered around my television to see Jon describe his jump, and the Palestinians who encouraged him.

Jon got to be on all the big news programs. He said tourists were standing around, looking at their tickets and their luggage and their kids, when shots like a string of firecrackers cracked the quiet. Jon looked pale on television and his voice sounded hollow, like the voice of someone who needs to swallow but can't. Behind the counter, safe from the machine-gun fire, he had huddled with the other somewhat athletic tourists.

When I repeated Jon's description to Richie, Richie said, “They huddled behind the counter? Did they call a play?” And I laughed at that, out loud. Everybody's so funny. My friends are hilarious about almost anything. But when we were watching Jon on television, and looking at the bodies that didn’t make it over the counter, none of us made jokes. Jamie only had one thing to say: “F-ckin’ Arabs.” I think my patience was in the next room, so I politely excused myself to go get it. Peter followed me. He told me not to declare war on Jamie, who knows nothing about the Middle East except his opinions.

Opinions about the Israeli-F-ckin’-Arab conflict dominate political discussion in Scarsdale, New York, where I grew up. Most of the people there are Jewish. The Jews hate the Arabs. I remember thinking, even when I was young and possibly precocious for thinking such a thing, that a Jewish prejudice against an entire people was ironic. That prejudice was inspiring me to charge in and confront Jamie. Peter told me to forget it. Peter was right. I could tell Jamie all about Abu Nidal, the Palestinian group that killed so many people in Rome and Vienna, and almost killed our friend. I could say Abu Nidal consists of about 500 radical Palestinians. I could mention how many Arabs are out there. More than 500. But I couldn’t change Jamie’s bigotry. The f-ckin’ Arabs tried to kill his friend.

My best friend is an Arab. Bilal El-Amine, from Southern Lebanon. He studies here at Davidson College, in somewhat conservative North Carolina. North Carolinians don’t like Arabs much. Bilal has traveled all over the United States. He says Americans don’t like Arabs much. It’s understandable, really. All we hear about Arabs is they...

Dr. Douglas Houchens

When I began work for Davidson College in 1953, teaching art was tough: little money, little space, little equipment, little interest. Exhibits were relegated to the lobby of Chambers Building and it was with trepidation that I installed anything that might be sexually definitive. Some Renaissance prints were modified by students’ pens and pencils, emphasizing anatomical parts. These old engravings were covered by plastic but the striae could not be removed from the fragile papers. The then Dean of Students counseled me, saying that the only way he knew of correcting such tendencies was to scrap exhibitions.

Back then students wore crew cuts and tight ties and managed hard-drinking fraternity parties off-campus. A strictly masculine image was cultivated everywhere and art could be suspect. Later, art began to be fashionable and attitudes changed. Everywhere college and university art departments expanded, and studio and history courses became an important part of the curricula. This was true of Davidson. It became coeducational. Races and sexes intermingled. Openness and mutual regard now characterize the campus. So it would seem that Davidson was ready to embrace a...

My friends are chauvinistic, violent, hateful, faithful to a strange religion, and usually found on camels. Bilal tells me the thing about camels is absurd. He hasn't ridden a camel in weeks. Bilal is researching ahimsa, the Hindu ideal of non-violence. I’ve never seen Bilal lose his temper, even when we Americans bare our prejudiced souls. Bilal is non-violent. And hilarious. And compassionate. Like Jamie, Peter, Doug, and Richie. He and Jamie have spent time together. They get along beautifully. We celebrated my birthday last March, almost a year ago. My best friends and I. We didn’t discuss the Middle East. I guess the temptation just wasn't there. But I know what they would have said.

“Bilal, the Holocaust wasn’t exactly pleasant, ya’ know. So the Jews got a homeland and the Arabs attack them for it. The Israelis defend themselves against the Arabs and everybody attacks the Jews for that, too.”

“No. Jamie, it’s not defense to annex Arab territories, to kick Palestinians off their land and then deny them political rights.”

And if they had said all that, I would be somewhere between them, rubbing my neck. It frustrates me. I know both arguments, and they're reasonable. But everybody's arguing and not getting anything resolved. The one simple truth we in the United States usually ignore is this: the Arabs and Israelis are at war. Americans act shocked when some Arabs use violence to change the policies of the United States. We have no right to be shocked. We have joined the war. On the side of Israel, of course, and with little or no debate in the U.S. We have always supported Israel, and we always will. We supply Israelis with the military and economic aid they need to continue their occupation of the Golan Heights and the West Bank, including Jerusalem. Israel's occupation of these areas has forced millions of Palestinians off their land and into refugee camps. And Israel refuses to discuss anything with the Palestinians. So the Palestinians fight for their rights, for their land. That's how most Arabs see it. We Americans may not see it that way, but we must understand the Arab view if we want to avoid being contributors to and victims of the war in the Middle East.

F-ckin’ war, Jamie. Two months ago, just before Christmas break, rumors were...floating around that William Buckley, a hostage in Beirut, had been killed. When the radio confirmed Buckley’s murder, I was eating dinner at the fraternity house with six friends, some of whom had heard about Buckley. None of them heard the radio, so I said, “Buckley's dead.” Dave feigned concern and said, “Dead? I didn’t even know he was sick!” I laughed and laughed. I still laugh over that comment, even though I hate it. It’s like those jokes about gays or blacks or exploding shuttles or AIDS — jokes like that are nasty and vicious and hilarious simply because they are so clever. We're all so funny all the time. But we're too funny. I guess solemnity requires too much energy.

I was dating a girl whose parents disapproved of me because of my Jewish upbringing. They liked me, but not my upbringing. Amazing distinction. Amazing logic, too. I wasn't raised Jewish, I don’t speak Hebrew, and I didn’t have a Bar Mitzvah. Yet my father’s family is Jewish, so mere acquaintances feel comfortable disapproving of me. Discrimination hurts. Discrimination causes a heat, a pain in the stomach. An anger that can be violent. When a person feels discrimination, ahimsa — Hindu non-violence — becomes challenging. Bilal teaches me patience. I don’t know how he learned it. Maybe by realizing he couldn't stop Israeli planes from flying over his village, couldn't stop the U.S. New Jersey battleship from lobbing bombs into Beirut. Anti-Semitism, the American bombs, Lebanese fifth-graders carrying Lebanese first-graders to shelter under the sonic boom of Israeli jets.

Reminds me of a joke I once heard. Actually, I like jokes. My friends are all very funny. I love funny people and people who like laughing. Sometimes we laugh at sick things, because they would upset us too much otherwise. That's okay, I suppose. Three weeks ago I had an interview for a fellowship to study in the Middle East, and the interviewer said each of the hundreds of bombs the U.S. New Jersey launched into Beirut cost as much as a Cadillac. She asked why, given the problems of the American automobile industry, the U.S. government didn't just buy up the surplus of Cadillacs and lob them into Beirut. It was a funny question, to which I added they should first take the wheels off to really annoy those f-ckin’ Arabs. Then, after all those Cadillacs come crashing down on Beirut, the Arabs will blow the American Embassy to pieces, killing hundreds of Americans. And we will act shocked. Of course, terrorism against innocent tourists differs from the destruction of an embassy.

The woman who interviewed me for that fellowship told me some maniac from a steel plant in Seattle slaughtered her best friend and his entire family on Christmas Eve. The killer thought he was killing a Jewish Communist and his family. The victim was neither Jewish nor a Communist. His twelve-year-old son died last week. He had been in a coma for a month and a half. F-ckin’ steelworkers. The woman who told me this story did not share my fear of the Middle East. “Don't worry that we won't send you because the Middle East is violent. I'm not gonna’ tell you not to go to the Middle East. What can I tell you? Don't go to Seattle?”

All the jokes about all the people, all the peoples. Since Jon's run-in with the Palestinians, my friends and I haven't gotten together. Jon's in Israel now. Jamie, Peter, Doug, and Richie are back at school. It was a weird Christmas break. Strange — I know when we do get together, we'll joke about Rome. Meanwhile, Bilal and I keep studying the Middle East, hoping to meet on the opposite sides of a negotiating table someday to work the damn thing out. I hope to go to the Middle East next year to live with Palestinians and Israelis. Bilal has taught me to say “the Arab is my friend.” Maybe they will believe me. I hope Jamie can teach me to say something like that to the Israelis. It doesn't matter if he can't, though. Jon can always tell me. Rudy is a senior international relations major from Scarsdale, New York.

Vandals moving work of art by George Rickey, the greatest living kinetic sculptor. Davidson's Horticultural Symposium Committee had approached Mr. Rickey and had been granted a recent piece which was placed underneath a bare-branched sugar maple outside the Student Union and acted as a logo for the symposium on March fifth. This work, Four Open Rectangles Diagonal Jointed II, was spare and elegant and its finely adjusted geometric shapes moved as unpredictably as the wind. Professors in the Martin Chemical Laboratory across the way neglected their work to watch its gyral motion. George Rickey’s sculptures are in major museums in this country and abroad. Like Calder’s, they enhance stairwells and plazas. They are expensive. Mr. Rickey agreed to the loan because he had pleasant memories of a visit to Davidson in the late thirties. I had informed him that the College ranked fifth in Rhodes Scholarships and ninth among the nation’s liberal arts colleges. His work would be appreciated for a few weeks by the students who returned from their spring break on March tenth. Security was alerted. An effort was made to direct publicity to the student body so that it would know the sculpture’s source and worth. Most students loved it and both they and their professors wondered if Davidson might acquire it for permanent installation. They learned that the price was $40,000 and that it was slated for the American Embassy in China in April. It will not arrive. During the early morning of March fourteenth, one or more vandals, students or otherwise, broke and bent and prized its beautiful, lean appendages. Today we return the crafted carcass to the Rickey Workshop in East Chatham, N.Y. It is my guess that most of the liberal arts colleges, among which Davidson ranks ninth, have sculptures permanently installed on their campuses. Last year, Queens College hosted the Tri-State Sculptors’ Guild Exhibition and placed dozens of sculptures around the campus. Davidson authorities must choose whether to follow the precept of that long-ago Dean of Students who would sacrifice art to the threat of vandalism or, like other fine institutions, face this hard problem and solve it. Davidson College should resist and render impotent the benighted who say, “It moves, it's lovely, it’s fragile. Kill it.” Houchens is a professor emeritus of art.