Friday, April 11, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN 11

Conservative propaganda clouds facts

Hap Bryant

“U.S. Actions in Nicaragua Necessary” contains just the kind of rhetoric that we must avoid in order to achieve a
peaceful, permanent solution in Central America. In examining the problem, David Host presupposes one tenet; namely, that everything President Reagan
does in Central America is right. Upon this premise, he bases generalization after generalization. If we are to provide true
freedom to the citizens of the Central American countries, we must examine the facts, not the ideology of our Chief
Executive.

For instance, Host states: “The Reagan policies, in their full implementation, will lead away from American commitment of forces, however.”
Upon what facts does he base this statement? Apparently, he accepts the fact that since the present administration says that
its policies will have said effect, said effect must occur. Granted, the Sandinista presence in Central America poses a threat
to democracy in the Western Hemisphere, but the means by which we control this presence is debatable. Do we send
military aid to the contras, who have subverted human rights as much as the Marxist regime they are fighting by
forcing a Sandinista sympathizer to dig his own grave and then executing him while he is kneeling? Or do we
get to the heart of the problem and fund health care, food, and economic support in order to pluck out
the seeds of Communist revolution at the heart? I am personally not experienced enough to make such important policy decisions,
but what I want is the chance to establish my own opinions without being indoctrinated by the conservative paranoia propaganda.

Mr. Host makes another erroneous statement in calling the El Salvadoran regime a “progressive, democratic government.” Yes, “President” Duarte has
apparently made advances, but the death squads still exist. These Latino storm troopers of the '80s are wreaking havoc amongst
the citizens of El Salvador to this day. Do we continue to give military aid that indirectly helps these death
squads, or do we lower the military aspect and concentrate more on the economic aspect of revolution? If we reconcile
the rebels and the present government by economic means, the threat will be gone, and lives will be saved in
the process — maybe even the lives of American nuns and priests.

Finally, Mr. Host totally disregards the notion of popular sovereignty. He presupposes the fact that all residents of Central America
want a form of government exactly like ours. They should be given the chance to stand on their own feet
and establish themselves politically. The spreading of American democracy by military means is equivalent to the Kremlin's spreading of communism
through revolt. What is different between the Nicaraguan contras and the rebels in El Salvador? Mr. Host might say, “Well,
the contras are right.” How can we decide who is right? Let the people choose for themselves. There is the
real freedom.

Bryant is a freshman from Orangeburg, S.C.

Relaxation needed at Davidson

Jimmy Lewis

In recent weeks, much ado (about nothing?) has been made about the quality of life here at Davidson. Two weeks
ago The Davidsonian featured four different articles concerning the vandalism of that $40,000 (?) art thing. Last week’s paper featured
some article, which chastised noisy, arrogant and irresponsible Davidson students, especially all of those ubiquitous “drunken females” who prowl the
campus at nights. You know the ones.

Now, I would like to address something far more important, the situation at the local lake campus. Yes, our lake
campus is now being terrorized by those same noisy, arrogant, and irresponsible students. I go to the lake campus every
afternoon to do my homework. You see, I do my best studying lying out in the sun and surf. I
would prefer to study at Fort Lauderdale or Myrtle Beach, but the lake campus is the next best thing. Anyway,
let me get back to the point at hand. All of us serious students who study at the lake campus
are being overrun by a gang of noisy, arrogant, and irresponsible students. Let me provide some examples.

Yesterday, a couple of those noisy, arrogant, and irresponsible students were throwing the frisbee by where I was peacefully minding
my own business. Suddenly, the frisbee began heading my way. It appeared that it would hit me so I had
to throw down my book so I could safely deflect it. I managed to deflect it, but as a result,
I lost my page in the book. Those inconsiderate students had some nerve. I managed to find my page and
I began reading once again. Then all of a sudden a group of students laid their blanket down next to
mine. At that point I became quite worried. Were these new visitors, two guys and two girls, normal students or
some of those noisy, arrogant, and irresponsible students like those two guys with that dangerous frisbee? It did not take
long to find out. The two girls opened their coolers and started drinking Bud Lites. How can they drink on
a school day? I was pondering this mystery when all of a sudden my mind was jarred by the blasting
radio that the two guys had just turned on. I decided to try and ignore the group and continue my
studying. However, I just could not concentrate. The radio was blaring “Revolution” by the Beatles. Who wants a revolution these
days? I want an “A” in economics! Since I was determined to stick it out, I continued reading. Yes, I
continued to read thesame paragraph over and over again. I could not concentrate. After a while, the two girls got
up and began to roam around the lake campus. They were yelling at each other and stumbling over everybody else.
These two drunken females were terrorizing the lake campus! As they were approaching me, I was getting more and more
angry. Finally, since I could hold my anger in no longer, I yelled, “Shut the hell up!” Then, one of
the drunken females came up to me and said, “Lighten up! Listen, we have been studying really hard lately and
right now we're just trying to have a little fun. If we didn’t have fun every once in a while,
the academic pressure here would drive us crazy. We so-called noisy, arrogant, and irresponsible students are here to stay. So,
we recommend you either invest in ear plugs, find another place to study, or learn to live with us, OK?”
And she left. I sat there and pondered her words. Then, I stood up, walked over to her blanket and
said, “What other Beatles’ songs do you have? You wouldn't happen to have a frisbee, would you?”

Lewis is a sophomore economics major from Tucker, Georgia.

Secret forces need better training
Tim Brown

On 25 April 1980, Desert One, the most ambitious peacetime commando raid ever in U.S. military history, ended in smoldering
ruins in a sandstorm in the Iranian desert because of insufficient helicopter support, inadequate planning, confusion over who was in
command, and failure to use the best resources available. In response to this failure, it was decided that the secret
forces ought to be revamped. Secret forces include the illustrious Army Rangers and Green Berets, the SEALS, Delta Force, and
Task Force 160, which until last year no one knew existed. In fact, one reason why Reagan banned the media
from the Grenada invasion was to protect the anonymity of Task Force 160. But now, five years after this decision
to revamp the forces, many are still unsure of whether or not the U.S. could carry out successfully an ambitious
commando attack.

In the past five years, the secret forces have grown in number from 10,000 to 15,000. They’ve had their budget
double stealthily to $500 million. But a big problem is that too much money has been spent on gadgets, like
the ordinary-looking backpack which has one-twelfth the explosive force of the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima, and not enough for
enhancing the forces’ training, planning, and organization.

In 1985, only seven of the nine counter-terrorist helicopters were able to fly — one fewer than in 1980 when
eight of nine flew. Training is still often unplanned and unorganized. Task Force 160's motto, “Death waits in the dark,”
seems all too appropriate. During a night operation on 20 March 1983, a Task Force 160 crew dropped soldiers into
what it thought was ocean and heard a splat instead of a splash. Four months later, the same crew, on
yet another night-time excursion, crashed into a tiny island in Lake Michigan, which it mistook for fog. A month later,
another crew had its craft come apart in midair due to shoddy repair. Six weeks later, another chopper flew into
the ocean off Panama. So it turns out that Task Force 160, with less than two percent of the Army’s
choppers, claimed 60 percent of Army helicopter fatalities.

Five years after this decision to revamp the forces, many are still unsure of whether or not the U.S. could
carry out successfully an ambitious commando attack. Other Task Force 160 choppers return to base with tree branches and wires
dangling from their bent skids, proof that they’ve gotten a bit close to obstacles in the night and survived miraculously.
All of which infuriates the Pentagon, which can’t seem to get Task Force 160 to abandon old and defunct equipment,
inadequate planning and organization strategies, and its insistence on doing things always the hard way.

The Pentagon, in its attempt to facilitate and centralize the planning and organization of the secret forces, has consolidated authority
for counter-terrorist activities in the Joint Special Operations at Fort Bragg, N.C. Pentagon officials admit, however, that this command controls
only 10 percent of all secret forces and that it doesn't completely centralize decision-making, since a counter-terrorist raid would require
more than 10 percent of the secret forces. Arriving an hour late after poor planning and poor coordination during the
Grenada invasion, Delta Force wasn't able to complete the capture of Richmond Hill. Some members of that Delta Force group
carried target folders without mission plans. Special Forces Captain William Burgess gripes that special-operations training provides soldiers with so little
understanding of sabotage, infiltration, and other terrorist tactics that these soldiers often turn to TV, movies, and manuals found in
bookstores for guidance. And after reading of a Task Force 160 pilot who, when asked about his mission by a
National Guardsman, replied to him solemnly, “If you ask me that again, I'll have to kill you,” I wonder if
some of these soldiers might turn to TV, movies, and books in search of role models as well.

These things are for sure. Terrorism goes on seemingly unabated, making every nation, even Sweden, less safe. If the safety
of this nation is to increase, so too must the efficiency of our much-needed secret forces.

Brown is a sophomore from Mint Hill, NC and is Opinion editor of The Davidsonian.
