8 Sports Page Friday, October 31, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Covington National offers golfing fun for all

By EDWIN PAGE

Covington National Golf Links. Stirs the imagination, doesn’t it? Yes, we at Davidson have in our own backyard a veritable
championship caliber, albeit three-hole, golf course. And yet, it seems that the general population of the student body is ignorant
of this wonderful resource. Ever since school cranked up, it has been almost a daily ritual for my friends and
me to visit CNGL after nearly every meal. What could be more relaxing to the digestive tract after a meal
than a quick three out in the fresh air?

Although I hesitate to point out the fun available on Covington National for fear that it may become overcrowded, I
feel it to be almost a civic duty. Therefore, I have decided to provide a sort of guide to Covington
for those who have yet to discover its subtleties.

Covington National can be found just off Patterson Court, up the gravel road leading to the baseball field. It is
a convenient walk from any dorm and a short drive for the lazy members of the golfing crowd. A sign
identifies the course as the “Covington Golf Facility.” This is a misprint and should not cause undue confusion. The course
you see is indeed Covington National.

Before teeing off, as is the case at any fine course, there are a few rules of protocol that should
be observed. The first is the dress code. Weather permitting, males are expected to wear nothing besides shorts. Shirts and
shoes are frowned on by the discriminating player. For females, these rules are altered slightly, but the spirit is the
same. Secondly, it is looked on as a serious breach of etiquette to carry a golf bag. No more than
four clubs and a putter are normally used, but this is not a firm number. These two basic rules should
suffice for the beginner until he or she acquires a feel for the aura of the course.

Now for a brief outline of the course:

Number One: The shortest hole on the course, but a good starting hole. It is 120 yards downhill and usually
requires an eight iron. Don’t be fooled by the simple appearance of this hole, because danger lurks at every turn.
A small patch of trees shades the left side of the green and trees line the right side waiting to
devour any shank. A bunker guards the front of the green and greenskeepers and cushmans are always an obstacle. Perhaps
the most dangerous hazard is not to be detected from the tee. Many a seemingly perfect shot has disappeared when
the ball burrowed into the soft green never to be seen again.

Number Two: The only par four on the course, this hole can, however, be reached with a solid wood shot.
This is also the most dangerous hole on the course. Any tee shot that fades even slightly will find its
way into the road or beyond. An errant second shot may find its way into the WDAV studio. This is
an 89.9 stroke penalty and tends to ruin even the best round. Any shot over the green will bring shouts
of “What day is it? Arbor Day!” from your playing partners. Failure to cross the road in one shot brings
a penalty worse than any number of strokes, but decorum prevents elaboration.

Number Three: The most dangerous hole on the course for the members of the baseball team. Trees line the right
side and the really bad shot will end up as a deep fly to right field. One of the most
serious hazards here is the potential lawsuits that might result from the families of any deceased right fielders. The same
group of trees that guard number one come into play again. The two-tiered green is the most treacherous on Covington.
On a very empty day, this hole can be turned into a long par four by hiking to the back
of theSoccer practice field to tee off. Unless the course is completely empty, this variation is not recommended. Covington National
provides a great outlet for those afternoon study breaks as well as a challenging layout for the serious golfer. Get
out and play before word gets around. Pretty soon you may have to call for tee times or buy tickets
to watch the pros play. I wonder if Augusta National started like this.

By JILL BOYETTE

Season play this week. Finally, the baseball team will require that each team pick a member to be a ref
during the season (there will be a space on the roster for the designated referee). If there is a lack
of referees, then we will pool these team refs and choose them randomly to officiate games. KA meets PiKA this
Saturday at 2:00 on the football field for an exhibition flickerball game and they will be followed by a Crabs-Rusk
game. Club football will play immediately after the exhibition women’s game (hopefully about 3:15). Bring your parents to the stadium
so they can finally see what Davidson flickerball is all about.

Men’s flickerball ends this Sunday. Tournament brackets will be posted Sunday night in Chambers and in the gym. Tournament play
begins Monday. The top 16 men’s teams will play single elimination for the first round. The final eight teams will
play double elimination beginning Sunday, Nov. 9. The top eight women’s teams will begin round one on Nov. 9 after
they conclude their regular games after Thanksgiving. Rosters will be available on Wednesday, Nov. 3, and they are due in
the IMAC office at 4 p.m. on Friday, Nov. 14.

There are several changes in IMAC basketball this year. First of all, a minimum of ten players is required for
each team roster. Secondly, the $10 entry fee is non-refundable. IMAC will not be officiating IMAC basketball this year. There
is a possibility that some of the assistant football coaches may ref, but they cannot start until mid-January. IMAC needs
all students, faculty, and staff members who are capable and interested in officiating for intramural basketball to report to the
IMAC office and sign up for the referee clinic. There will be a small salary for officiating. As a precaution,
IMAC will require that each team pick a member to be a ref during the season (there will be a
space on the roster for the designated referee). If there is a lack of referees, then we will pool these
team refs and choose them randomly to officiate games.

Volleyball beats Queens, loses to Furman

By MIKE ADAMS

The Davidson women’s volleyball team split a pair of matches this week, winning at Queens College and losing at Furman.
The Lady Cats wrapped up the win at Queens on Saturday in three games: 15-10, 15-13, and 15-7. Coach Sue
Hayes said, “We played better than the last time we played them.” Davidson used a different offensive set than early
in the season. Senior Bonnie Bolton switched from hitter to setter and sophomore Maria Douglas moved from setter to hitter.
Junior Beth Elder, whom Hayes calls a much-improved player, played well on both the front line and as a server.
She served 12 consecutive points in the second game. Senior Michele Miller played very well as a hitter and led
the Cats' stronger effort in the second game. Junior Beth Elder and freshman Sarah Johnson served well and scored all
of the Davidson points in the second game.

Against Furman on Tuesday, the Lady Cats had what Hayes called an “off night” in falling 15-1, 15-6, and 15-0.
Davidson was hurt by the absence of two players, senior Ellen Harding and junior Julia Cardwell. “Furman is a very
good team,” said Hayes. She added that the Lady Cats had difficulty picking up the hit out of the middle.

Announcing...

The Re-Opening Of HAIR DESIGNERS STUDIO

Now taking appointments Mon.-Sat. 9-5

Call 892-8894

Corner of Hwy. 115 and Faith Rd.

Rankings:

Women:
1) Rusk Insatiables
2) Warner Hall
3) The Glubbies
4) Cream of the Crop
5) Deja Vus

Men:
1) Between Your Buns
2) KA Gold
3) Drop & Give
4) Derbydar
5) Stob Session
6) Not off the top of my Head
7) Ragin’ Trajins
8) The Gods
9) Booze Brothers
10) The Buschmen
