2 News Shorts

Community Players sponsor children’s play

Fantasy and fun will be in abundant supply for children of all ages during the upcoming production by the Davidson
College Theatre Department, “Professor Zuccini’s Traveling Tales” by Sylvia Ashby. The Davidson Community Players, who sponsored the 1984 children’s play
“Henry Mouse” and the 1985 benefit performance by and for the Tarradiddle Players of Charlotte, “Don’t Count Your Chickens Until
They Cry Wolf,” will be the 1987 sponsor of the college play.

Directed by Dr. Rupert T. Barber, Jr., chairman of the college Theatre Department, “Professor Zuccini’s Traveling Tales” will be performed
Saturday, Jan. 10 at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. and Sunday, Jan. 11 at 2 p.m. in the Workshop Theatre
(an informal setting in-the-round) in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Ticket prices are $2.00 for children and $3.00 for adults.
For reservations and information call the box office, 892-1696, beginning Jan. 5, Monday through Friday, 2-5 p.m. Available tickets may
also be purchased at the door prior to performance.

Tutors for Davidson students

The Dean of Students office offers a tutoring program to help students who are having trouble in their classes. The
system works as follows: Department chairmen recommend 8-10 tutors from each department. These names are printed in a booklet located
in the Dean of Students office at which students may look anytime. If a student is in need of a
tutor, the process is simple. First, the student must select a tutor, then match the student’s schedule to the tutor’s
schedule. The fee is $5 per hour. If a student has difficulty selecting a tutor, the student can contact Paula
Moore Miller in the Dean of Students office. Miller will offer extra recommendations to individual students to help them choose
a tutor, or see anyone who is interested in being a tutor. Miller encourages students to get an early start
on this program.

Material contributed by Sarah Longely

Wednesday, December 10, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Alexander talks about family relationships

By DAVID BEARCE

James F. Alexander, professor of psychology at the University of Utah, was the guest speaker on Monday, Dec. 8 at
7 p.m. in the 900 Room. His talk was about effective leadership roles to deal with family problems. Alexander spoke
first “about leadership in general.” He stated that there have been “lots of studies to find out about the qualities
of the best leaders.” Unfortunately, it is “very hard to predict good leadership style” and it is almost “impossible to
give tests” to measure these leadership qualities. But Alexander did define three dimensions that are “important differences in being a
good leader.”

His first dimension was “power.” A person appointed to be in charge is said to have a lot of power
because of his position. A worker who did not make many decisions would have less power. The second dimension is
“task clarity.” The task needs to be simple to understand and carry out. If one “knows how to do it
and what it will accomplish,” it is more likely to get done. The third dimension concerns the relationship between the
leaders and the other members of the group. Positive or negative feelings could exist. These feelings determine what can be
accomplished.

Next, Alexander outlined two opposing leadership styles. The first style he termed the “task/in-

Davidson profile: Dr. Cathey

By MARIA DOUGLAS

Robert Cathey ’78 feels he...has to “relearn” Davidson. Cathey, a professor of religion for winter term, has observed a few
changes in Davidson since he was a student here eight years ago. The main differences he has found between 1978
and 1986 Davidson are in the students and the use of the computer. “The student body,” Cathey said, “is more
diversified with more students from different states and different countries than when I was a student.” He also feels that
student use of the computer is more widespread than in the late 1970s. He describes the computer as “omnipresent.”

Cathey is a native of Charlotte where he graduated from Garinger High School. He was awarded a B.A. in philosophy
in 1978 from Davidson and received his Masters in Divinity from Princeton Theological Seminary. He is currently working on his
doctorate in religion at Duke University. About Davidson, Cathey said it definitely prepares you if you go on to graduate
study. His special area of interest is the doctrine of the Trinity and how language helps to interpret the Trinity.
Cathey is married to the Rev. Laura Houck Cathey, pastor of First Presbyterian Church in Hoboken, New Jersey. They are
parents of three-week-old Laura Elizabeth. His hobbies include calisthenics and aerobics. Having lived in Hoboken, a 10-minute train trip from
New York City, Cathey said his most favorite pastime is “exploring New York City.”

Alexander used Jimmy Carter as an example of this style of leader. Ronald Reagan is an example of a “task/instrumental
leader” because “he gets things done.” Alexander argued that one style does not always work best. The “task/instrumental” style is
more effective if all three dimensions — power, task clarity, and relationships — are either very good or very bad.
If the three dimensions are moderate, then it is more effective to use a “social/emotional” leadership style. In this situation,
Alexander advised not to “focus on the task,” but to “focus on the relationships.”

Men seem to fit more easily into the “task/instrumental” leadership style. This is “the stereotype that exists in the current
literature,” according to Alexander. Women tend to emphasize feelings, and they fit more easily into the “social/emotional” leadership style. Alexander
compared family problems involving children and teenagers. He described the three dimensions of power, task clarity, and relationships as being
better when the children are younger. As they get older, these dimensions become “more moderate.” Thus, “fathers as task-oriented leaders”
would be more effective during the childhood years. They should “recede into the background” during adolescence. But the reverse seems
to be happening. Alexander stated that we “seem to be doing it exactly backwards or the people are lying.”

Alexander claims that he has “no solutions” to this problem. He suggested that we “think about the roles.” Perhaps “many
women are very effective task leaders and maybe fathers have social/emotional skills.” A new approach that teaches the parents of
young children to be task-oriented leaders should be undertaken, according to Alexander.

Something bothering you? Want to let other people know what’s on your mind? Then write an opinion for The Davidsonian.
If interested, call Tim Brown.
