~ Opinions Wayne Williams

The system of apartheid is a deplorable and detrimental institution. One might say that apartheid is detrimental only to the masses of poor, starving, and enslaved black people of South Africa. However, in actuality, the system of apartheid is just as detrimental to the minority of the rich, well-fed, and free white people in South Africa. For wherever there exist oppressed and oppressor, both are in a constant state of killing each other. On the part of the oppressed, you have the suffering and pain in body; whereas, on the part of the oppressor, you have the suffering and pain in the mind. When the system of apartheid is viewed in this way, I know that one cannot but agree that the system of apartheid is a dangerous and dehumanizing institution which must be eliminated at any cost just as the systems of British rule over America and enslavement of the black race in America were eliminated.

I now ask that with patience you lend me your ears for a few minutes. Let me start by recollecting an interesting point which the Rev. Jesse Jackson brought up in his speech on Sept. 14, 1986, at Owens Auditorium. Rev. Jesse Jackson told the audience that if the situation in South America had been exactly the opposite, a black minority exploiting a white majority, then there wouldn’t have been any need of planning and debating on the next step of action; the United States would have taken immediate action, not only with economic sanctions but also with military involvement, to eliminate the problem. The reason for this immediate action would have been that the system of apartheid is a deplorable and detrimental system which must be eliminated at any cost. Now, I ask, isn't that the same situation which is now in existence in South Africa? When is immediate action to eliminate this deplorable and detrimental system of apartheid on the part of the people of the United States going to be taken? Does it have to be an oppressed white people for action to be taken? The time has passed for talking and planning: it is time for ACTION.

I now turn my attention to those people who say that divesting will only worsen the situation of apartheid. I ask these people to tell me about how boycotts in America worsened the practice of segregation of black people in America in the early sixties. Let me attempt to set up an analogy at this point. These people who cry, “don't divest," say that divesting will only worsen the economic situation in South Africa. Now, I ask, doesn’t a boycott also worsen an economic situation? Yet, a divestment helps to draw attention to a problem and in some cases also becomes an indirect solution to the problem. So the question here is where are our minds directed, at the economic situation of South Africa or the system of apartheid. Those who answer apartheid will accordingly stand up for divesting; on the other hand, those who answer the economic situation of South Africa will accordingly cry out not to divest. For me the answer is apartheid and thus divestment is the way of drawing attention to the problem and thus in the process of drawing attention might become an indirect solution to the problem at hand.

Let me now hasten to finish my say before your endurance of my article comes to an end. In finishing, I will take time to write down a thought in the form of a poem. It captures the picture that comes to my mind when I think about the horrible injustice going on in South Africa today.

Where beyond the darkened shadows will the happy day come,
When the world will wake up and realize that the day of the Lord has come,
When men of different races will come together for peace,
When no men will be judged by color
So that all people might truly be at peace,
Where are the helpers of freedom,
Where are Jesus's hands and feet,
His the same people who were helped to freedom,
Now forgotten how long they got on their feet,
Did George Washington or John Hancock turn their backs on the freedom of America
Did Frederick Douglas or Martin Luther King turn their backs on the freedom of blacks in America
Well, I wait in faith that these who were helped will help the world to come to peace
To follow the Golden Rule
To feel the peace of mind that comes with the (Gold Age) Rule
Reach out, my friends, reach out
We together can become as one
We can break through the bonds of hate, race, and religious denominations to come to the day when the person can say
I AM FREE
FREE AT LAST
FREE AT LAST
THANK GOD I AM FREE AT LAST
TO WALK WITH MY BROTHER IN PEACE AND HARMONY

Williams is a senior from Fayetteville, NC

---

Just Words — Adam West forever haunted by Batman role. Tim Brown

In the afternoon the school bell rings and signals elementary school students their freedom to tumble in the leaves and to soak up the warmth and color of the autumn sun. Many young students, however, forsake the multi-colored leaves and the glowing sun and race home to watch the derring-dos of Batman and Boy Wonder. By the time the youngsters make it home and switchon their televisions. The Batman rerun has already begun. A typical Bat episode begins: Bruce Wayne (alias Batman) and Dick Grayson (alias Robin, the Boy Wonder) are in Bruce’s study at the Wayne Manor. The study is filled with shelves of books, expensive-looking antique furniture, enormous antique rugs, and trophies from Bruce’s exploits. One such trophy is an African spear with a spearhead that is made of tin and is covered with some type of poison. Bruce, wearing a smoking jacket and a silk ascot, nonchalantly sips a glass of tomato juice and discusses some philosophical point with Alfred, the butler. Meanwhile, Dick, home on break from Andover, prances back and forth across the room and grows irritated because he cannot speak French well. Bruce stops conversing with Alfred and is about to help Robin with his pronunciation when, suddenly, the Bat phone rings and the yellowish Bat symbol cuts through the evening sky. Bruce and Dick slide down the Bat poles and arrive in the Batcave as Batman and the Boy Wonder, decked out in their utility belts, silk capes, polyester tights, and masks. Robin flips a coin to decide whether they shall drive downtown in the Batmobile or fly downtown in the Batplane. A couple of seconds later they slip into the sleek, comfortable Batmobile and roar off to Commissioner Gordon's office in order to find out what demented jailbird is plaguing Gotham City. “Golly gee willikers!” exclaims Robin after learning that the laughing Joker, the witty Riddler, the waddling Penguin, the sexy Catwoman, and the cool Mister Freeze have all busted out of jail and are all out to unmask Batman. Of course, they do not succeed in unmasking Batman. The young viewers, nevertheless, will stay glued to the same Bat channel day after day after day.

The Joker Triumphs: In his short story “The Joker's Greatest Triumph” Donald Barthelme brings the elevated characteristics of Batman and the Boy Wonder down to sea level. Bruce Wayne adds vodka to his tomato juice, Dick is not on break; he is home to explain to Bruce that he is failing French and might be ejected from Andover soon. The Bat phone rings, Bruce answers it and confidently says, “We shall see you in a couple of minutes, Commissioner.” Quickly Bruce and Dick change into Batman and Boy Wonder, and speed downtown in the Batmobile. Batman presses a button on the dashboard and presto: a panel on the dashboard slides back to reveal a little bar “with ice, glasses, water, soda, quinine, vodka, lemons, limes” and a pack of Viceroys. Angrily Batman pounds his fists together because he forgot to pick up some more quinine water at the liquor store the previous night. He decides he should not drink and drive anyhow and settles for a cigarette. Batman parks the Batmobile illegally, and he and Boy Wonder run into Commissioner Gordon’s office. No sooner does Commissioner Gordon explain to them that the Joker is on the loose than they are “wheeling the Batmobile expertly through the dark streets of Gotham City," looking for the Joker in his purple suit and listening for his unique laugh. Finally, they spot the Joker in an armored car and they foil his diabolical plans. But this time the Joker has the last laugh. He crashes his armored car into a brick building, some flying bricks knock Batman unconscious and the Joker unmasks him. Boy Wonder revives Bruce Wayne with some eight-dollar brandy. Then they drive dejectedly back to Wayne Manor, where they sit in Bruce's study and sulk.

West's Career: From 1966 to 1968 the actor Adam West played the TV role of Batman, which role became his stereotype and made West a household name. When the TV show evaporated in 1968, so did West's acting career. “It was impossible," explains Adam West, “for me to get a role. If it got down to the wire for the part of leading man, the director would say, ‘Hey, what are you guys doing? You can’t put Batman in bed with Faye Dunaway.’” Over the last 18 years Adam West has purchased tomato juice, vodka, jogging suits, elaborate exercise equipment, a Pacific Palisades home and Reebok high-tops — which help make life complete — with the money he earns from Batman appearances and Batman merchandise and insignificant roles in insignificant movies. Also with this money, he has supported three gorgeous wives, only one of whom he is now fond of, and four handsome and well-mannered children. As open and honest as his fans might expect, Adam West says, “When people get pretentious, and talk about their great body of work, I think, ‘What the hell am I going to say?’ But then I look around and realize I've not done too badly for a farm boy from Walla Walla, Washington.”

This season Adam West might lose his stereotype, but not as easily as Bruce Wayne lost his mask in “The Joker's Greatest Triumph.” In NBC’s ‘The Last Precinct” Adam West assumes the role of Captain Rob Wright, an ideal cop except that his partners keep winding up dead. Stephen Cannell, executive producer of “The Last Precinct,” guarantees that West's “great comedy timing and humorous delivery” will give him a new TV identity. But it will be difficult for Batman fans to watch West in his new series without subconsciously hearing “Ooops, Bammm, Smack” and the Batman theme song, “da da Da Dada da Da Da Batman!"

Brown is Opinions editor of The Davidsonian.