OPINIONS The Davidsonian December 10, 1986 17

Apathy will not aid Amnesty International’s cause
Bilal El-Amine

This article is not intended to offend anyone. Nevertheless, I know many readers will object to what I have to say. What I have chosen to discuss in the following is a somewhat difficult subject. I have found that there is a strong aversion to stressful subjects here. This is why I chose to make you aware of the following; not to disturb your delicate peace here in Davidson but rather to have you question this aversion. I do not argue that painful subjects must be confronted because they are painful. No, in fact, I agree this is not an essential criterion that determines the degree of importance an issue carries. However, I simply wish to assert that difficult subjects must not be cast aside simply because they are difficult. We only choose to confront such issues when they stand directly in our path. Even in this scenario, we scurry past, hoping never to encounter them again.

The “difficult issue” I wish to discuss is one I have been quite adamant about this year — Amnesty International. We had another letter-writing session earlier tonight. It was about two Fathers in South Africa this time; one was stripped in front of 100 prisoners and the other was subjected to solitary confinement. I cannot recall the subjects of the last several sessions but most are of equal severity. I remember one girl gasped in disbelief while reading the Urgent Action letter which details the crimes committed. At that point, I wondered why only 15 people were concerned enough to write a letter of protest about such atrocities.

You are probably processing a number of justifications for your apathy at this moment. There is no need; you are not required to attend. After all, those letters are not read, neither do they exert any influence in the end. And what right do I have to infringe on your privacy and stir you with such disturbing accusations? Probably the most legitimate excuse is a simple “I don’t know anything about Amnesty International.” This is my concern, for such a statement, in my view, remains insufficient. The fact that the majority in this College (and probably most other colleges) know nothing or very little about Amnesty International is very alarming. Next to the Conference Room, where we held the letter-writing session, the 900 Room was bustling with football fans who have been anxiously waiting for Monday Night Football since last Tuesday morning. Most of these avid sports fans can unravel the complexities of the NBA, NFL, USFL, NHL, and MLB. They can even tell you which two football teams are playing next Thanksgiving night. AI, however, is unheard of. Could it be a new league, you know, like the late USFL?

My point is that there is something fundamentally wrong. The lack of knowledge about Amnesty is only one symptom. The problem I speak of is misdirected concern, meaning that some of the important issues which necessitate our attention seem to be lost somewhere between baseball and what to wear to the next formal. I’ve always wondered how these superficialities have come to dominate our life at the cost of innumerable important issues. But the answer is immediately obvious. Most of these “important” issues are emotionally difficult to wrestle with every day; no one wishes to be subjected to such torment. The complexities of such matters, some argue, are also deterrents. Although this is true to some extent, I am reluctant to agree because they are no worse than any other subject such as economics, or the case I used earlier, sports. If sufficient motivation exists, one can easily grasp the fundamentals (I am not requesting mastery of these subjects, just practical knowledge). Difficulty of comprehension is usually just another justification for apathy.

I have intentionally avoided discussing these “subjects” or “issues” definitively. One might infer that I am speaking of international awareness. Although this would be accurate, I do not wish to limit my discussion to politics. There is an abundance of painful issues to encounter in our relations with our friends, family, and personal environment (and many more which need not be mentioned). My intention here is not to order your priorities. It is, rather, to have you confront the difficult yet crucial issues in your life. The results of such a confrontation, you might discover, are enlightening and, God forbid, even satisfying.

“Sadness lies at the very core of being. Lay the heart bare of every other feeling and inevitably you will come upon sadness, ready, like the quickened seed, to put forth its green leaf.”

El-Amine is a Center major from Saudi Arabia

ROTC should redeploy out of Belk dormitory
J. Allen Smith

Why does ROTC have its headquarters in basement Belk? The military is a part of “the system” or the “American way.” That’s a fact. The question is how much prominence should Davidson, a liberal arts college with a Christian foundation, give to it. As a pacifist, I naturally am not in favor of any form of militarism. Aside from that, why does ROTC have a central location at Davidson? Probably because when ROTC was put in basement Belk, the building was at the back of campus, nearest to the fields where ROTC trains. With the addition of Patterson Court, Commons, and the new dorms, basement Belk is no longer at the back of campus, but is a very central location, one which students might live in quite comfortably. ROTC’s position on campus should not have priority over students’ residence.

Just Words
Tim Brown

In this season of oozing sap and shedding trees, the Reagan administration’s credibility has dropped gradually with the multi-colored leaves: the Daniloff debacle, the summit fiasco, the spread of disinformation concerning Libya, and to top them off, the Iran deal. The Ronald Reagan who spoke at the firstPress conference concerning the Iran deal was a Reagan never before seen on national TV. His humor had turned to strained sarcasm, his easy confidence into defensiveness. Tight-lipped, pale, and tense as a stretched rubber band, Reagan announced that for the last 18 months his administration has insisted publicly on an arms embargo for Iran and on no concessions for terrorists, but has delivered secretly military weapons to Tehran. Reagan strained to explain that his administration supported this two-sided, fly-by-the-pants foreign policy to secure the release of Americans kidnapped by Iran’s Lebanese allies, and to restore relations with Iran. The Reagan administration’s decision to approach Iran with an eye on the post-Khomeini era is defensible. Iran — with a population of 45 million, a large army of militiamen and militia children, vast deposits of oil, and an economy of great potential — soon will become a Middle East superpower. But there is and should be a lively commotion about the wisdom of trading arms for hostages. Such a trade agreement would allow Iran to drive up to the teller’s window and make a withdrawal from its hostage account to pay for its military hardware.

Basement Belk should be made into dorms to give students a shorter walk to classes and the library. Perhaps ROTC can construct its headquarters at a more practical location, near WDAV and all the fields and jogging paths on which they train. In any case, ROTC should not have as central a location on campus as it presently has. Turn basement Belk into dorm rooms for students, and help solve Davidson’s housing shortage. Why does ROTC have its headquarters in basement Belk? Perhaps because we are the ones who will end up either leading our nation or community into war or seeing ways to avoid war and work for economic cooperation. The choices will be difficult. My fear is that Davidson makes the choice for war too easy. ROTC is in the only freshman dorm for every entering freshman guy, in front of the only freshman dorm for every entering freshman girl, not to mention along the course of a large portion of traffic walking from Chambers and the Union to Patterson Court and the Commons. If hall counselors are chosen with such incredible care, as they are, why aren't the surroundings for freshmen given the same consideration? Discipline is something the army has in common with the student. It also provides many students with an otherwise missing sense of purpose or money to make staying at Davidson less of an emotional or financial burden. I am concerned, however, that ROTC is sending a much more pervasive message of antagonistic sentiment to outsiders than the warm acceptance of outsiders more common to a Christian sense of purpose. Move it away from such a dominant position on campus and bring a few more sophomores back on campus.

Smith is a junior history major from Durham, NC.

“Standing tall” trip up in Iran “an on-going foreign-aid program,” as one U.S. diplomat observes. The gift-wrapped goodies that the Reagan administration reportedly had delivered to Tehran include a cake in the shape of a key for “opening” new diplomatic ties (sickly-sweet symbolism), a Bible inscribed by Ronald Reagan, Colt pistols with pearl handles for top Iranian officials who are admirers of Roy Rogers, 2080 anti-tank missiles, 240 anti-aircraft missiles, and spare parts for Iran’s aging fleet of F-4 Phantom jets. Never ceasing to amaze, the Reagan administration argues that the anti-tank missiles and anti-aircraft missiles “would have no impact on the progress of the Iran-Iraq war.” After the first U.S. delivery of military supplies to Tehran, of which not even Reagan was made aware, Iran paid no cash and released no hostages. Following the second delivery, Iran sent its Revolutionary Guards to secure the release of Rev. Benjamin Weir, a 62-year-old Presbyterian minister kidnapped in Beirut 16 months earlier, from Hezbollah terrorists in the Bekaa Valley. Several deliveries later, the Rev. Lawrence Jenco, a Roman Catholic missionary, was released. And most recently David Jacobsen, a hospital administrator, was freed.

Tarnished Brass: Three tarnished military brass hats of the National Security Council sold Reagan on the idea that the U.S. could run military hardware into Iran, get back hostages, and trust the Iranians (the same Iranians who refer to the U.S. as the Great Satan) to remain mum. The former National Security Council chief John Poindexter, who resigned last week, provided the lack of brains behind the caper. The former National Security Council chief Robert McFarlane organized the deliveries to Tehran. And Lt. Col. Oliver North, who was fired from the National Security Council last month, starred as the mysterious Lone Ranger in negotiating with the Iranians. A senior Reagan official said, “North would have skated on the edge of his skis to accomplish the mission.” White House officials jokingly referred to North as “the Reagan administration’s answer to G. Gordon Liddy.” So far, many on Capitol Hill have identified Poindexter, McFarlane, and North as the major causes of the Iran deal. They ignored public opinion (which McFarlane admits to), the State Department’s warnings that the Iran deal was a mistake in the making, and similar warnings from the Secretary of State George Schultz and from a temporarily enlightened Secretary of Defense Casper Weinberger. Moreover, they were so sneaky-secret that they never informed White House officials or Congress of their plans. Regardless of who is responsible for the Iran deal, the Reagan administration, if its credibility is to survive the coming winter, must understand that just as one should not employ a concert violinist to do brain surgery, one should not employ brass hats to orchestrate foreign policy. And the Democrats and Republicans should bear in mind these Mark Twain’s words: “By trying we can easily learn to endure adversity. Another man’s, mean.”

Brown is a junior center major from Mint Hill, NC and Opinions editor of The Davidsonian.