Friday, January 17, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Student government is not necessarily obvious

This opinion was submitted and endorsed by the following: Beadsie Woo, Karen Kemerait, Edward Hay, Libby Sanders, Christie Johnson, Ted
Davis, Merry Be Haas, and Braden Bledsoe.

It is important to remember that we are all students at Davidson College, that we involve ourselves in different activities
because they interest us and because we feel we can make some positive contribution to them and to the college.
It is easy to entrench our perspectives deeply in whatever activities we choose, and it is hard and humbling to
be reminded of our shortcomings. This is true for all organizations, and it is certainly true for the Student Government
and those of us who are members of the Senate.

Constructive criticism is just that — both helpful in pointing out faults and in suggesting remedies. Jokes are never intended
to hurt others; rather, they are designed to add humor. It is true that the official record of the Student
Government is not an appropriate vehicle for that humor — especially selective humor which is not appreciated nor understood by
all who read it (although some would argue that the humor in the Jan. 7 minutes was not appreciated by
all, either). Too, the activities of elected Senators and SGA committees are not always in the forefront of college happenings,
but because they are not obvious does not mean they are nonexistent.

Some points of clarification:
- The Sophomore Class Project, the Summer Job Survey, was designed to poll student employment for reference as to types
of jobs, jobs relating to interests and locations, and opportunities. The survey was not designed to ensure employment for other
students but merely to make them aware of jobs and what the Careers Office has to offer.
- The SGA Parking and Security Committee is currently working on both the parking and vandalism issues. Refer to the
minutes of Nov. 5, 1985, in which extensive coverage of the discussion in the SGA Meeting is found.
- The Council on Campus and Religious Life has discussed, at two separate meetings, vandalism and the apparent lack of
students’ responsibility and respect for college property and neighbors. This issue, too, has been discussed in SGA Meetings.

Criticism is useful if it is well-thought-out and if it is coupled with constructive suggestions for improvement. All SGA Meetings
are open to all students. We meet each Tuesday at 9 p.m. in the Union Conference Room. Any student who
is interested in finding out what the Senate does or who wants to bring an issue or policy to his
representatives is welcome.

Letters

SGA

When people elect other people to represent them, they are indicating that they trust those elected to carry forth the
wishes of the many who did the voting, and usually those who will do the voting next time around. People
do not necessarily elect people so that those elected can run around creating projects and the general appearance that everything's
okay, they're doing something.

Let’s face it. The SGA doesn’t have a helluvalot to do. They do what they have to, really, and say
goodnight. Your annual lambasting of the SGA — which, miraculously enough, was more illogical and incoherent than all the rest
I’ve seen — seems to suggest that the SGA do more than the students want it to do. I agree,
that once those elections are over the SGA becomes an anonymous Tuesday night social club that writes mind-bogglingly dumb jokes
into minutes that no one reads. But I tell you, as a former member of the SGA, that’s all the
students want. In short, they don’t care because stuff here at school seems okay. Okay? So lay off, if not
for any other reason, at least to make your editorials mildly interesting.

MS Shoot-Out

The Davidson-UNCC basketball game on Dec. 14 represented a double victory for Davidson College. Not only was the basketball team
victorious, but the school as a whole also won an honor. The Multiple Sclerosis Society of Charlotte coordinated a fund-raising
competition, the MS Basketball Shoot-Out, between UNCC and Davidson. This contest culminated at halftime of the basketball game when a
team of shooters from Davidson defeated one from UNCC. These teams won the privilege of competing by hitting more shots
than any other team at their respective schools. Several teams ofDavidson students competed here on Friday, Dec. 13 and raised
over $1600 in pledges for the MS Society. The teams at UNCC raised just over $500. We would like to
thank all those who participated in the Shoot-Out and all the people who pledged their support (please do not forget
to mail the collection envelopes with your pledges to the MS Society). Thank you for making this event such a
success!

Jamie Kiser
Alex Maultsby
Joe Simpson
SAE Service

Tennis Center

To the Editor:

With the start of spring practice for both the men’s and women’s tennis teams, we are revising hours for open
use of the Knobloch Tennis Center. The new hours for operation will be:

Monday: 6-9 p.m.
Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday: 2-4 p.m. and 6-7 p.m.
Friday: 6-9 p.m.
Saturday: 12:01-6 p.m.
Sunday: 12:01-5 p.m.

Reservations can be made on the day you wish to play, by calling the Center during hours of operation, at
extension 438. The fee for Davidson students, faculty, and staff, and their spouses and children will remain $1 per person
per hour. We will begin allowing alumni and others to use the facility also, but at a substantially higher rate.
If you haven't already taken advantage of this great new facility, why not sign up for an hour of play?
Never again will you be able to play indoor tennis so inexpensively. And it is a great way to get
good exercise in the winter.

Jeff Frank
Director of Tennis

Bylaws Referendum

On Jan. 21, next Tuesday, a referendum will be held so that the student body can vote on whether or
not to accept the recently revised SGA Bylaws. The Charters and Bylaws Committee has spent the last several months revising
the Bylaws of the SGA in order to eliminate inconsistencies and update antiquated information. The Bylaws contain all of the
regulations of the SGA, including specific information about election procedures, powers and duties of elected officials, and boards and committees
that exist under the supervision of the SGA. These Bylaws have already been approved by the SGA Senate and, pending
the approval of the student body, will be presented to the Trustees of the College for their ratification. Much work
has been put into the revisions of these Bylaws, and I hope to see the SGA operating under new regulations
by the end of February. Copies of the revised Bylaws have been placed on reserve in the library for the
student body. Once again, the referendum will be next Tuesday. Please vote.

Ken Mobley
Chairman of the Charters and Bylaws Committee

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere to
these four guidelines:
1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2) We require that letters be neatly typed.
3) We require that letters be signed and include the author's phone number and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.
4) We reserve the right not to print letters that:
a) function as advertisements;
b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes;
c) represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed on the same topic.

Camp Thunderbird

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them
in their physical, mental, and spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to help each individual
child develop his or her potential should apply. One must have the ability to teach in one or more of
our specialized activities. College students, teachers, and coaches should apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is
an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is
placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery, and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing, and tripping are
extras in our excellent program. For further information, write or call G. William Climer, Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 7,
Box 50, Clover, S.C., 29710 (803-831-2121).

Buy ONE Sandwich
Sub or Sandwich Roll
Get SECOND at HALF PRICE
(Second must be same or lesser price.)
One coupon per order
Located between I-77 & Cashion’s
In Cornelius
Mon.-Thurs. 10-8 p.m.
Coupon expires Jan. 24, 1986
892-0129 Carryout
MICHAELS’ RESTAURANT
Mon.-Sat 10 a.m.-8 p.m.
