Friday, November 7, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bleacher Seat
Fishing is the sport of champions
By MIKE ADAMS

Baseball is the world’s greatest sport. That's established fact. But even the best things must come to an end eventually
and so it is with this year’s baseball season. And that is why I’m writing about fishing — yes, that’s
what I said, fishing.

Now some of you may claim that fishing is a pastime, not a sport. And not just a pastime, but
a particularly dreary and nasty one practiced mainly by old fat men who love to chew Redman and call one
another Bubba. I beg to differ. This is the sports section. I am the sports editor. Sports editors write about
sports in the sports section. I’m writing about fishing. Therefore, fishing must be a sport. And not just a sport,
but one practiced by some of the more powerful intellects of our century.

William Butler Yeats was a fisherman. Ernest Hemingway loved to fish. The list goes on and on... and I would
continue it if I could think of anyone else.

There are many different kinds of fishing. There’s deep sea fishing, surf fishing, fly-fishing, fresh-water fishing, live-bait fishing, lure fishing
and many others. Jonah liked live-bait fishing and he had a unique idea about what could be used as bait.
I prefer to fish with artificial lures, specifically plastic worms. I live in rural Durham County, NC, and have a
five-acre farm pond just a quarter mile behind my house where I often fish for bass and bream.

Every fisherman’s goal is to catch a really big fish, preferably bigger than any fish anyone else he is with
catches. Or, at least that is the goal of every fisherman with a type-A personality like myself. I have never
caught a really big fish. (I hear you groaning to yourself now, “Oh no, he’s going to tell a story
about the big one that got away.” Damn right, I am. No fishing article would be complete without a good
fish story. Back to the tale.)

Oh, I know there are big fish in my pond. I have caught bass there myself that weigh about four
pounds, and on one day I have seen two giant bass caught there. One weighed close to eight pounds and
the other close to ten.

I have come close to catching one of these monsters only once in my fishing career. That occasion was in
the summer of my twenty-first year, on a cool Saturday morning which kept the mists circling gently across the surface
of the water. I let my mind drift, enthralled by the beauty of the pristine scene... when suddenly I felt
something jerk the hell out of my line! (I bet you’re glad I don’t really write like that.) Well, anyway,
I got a bite from this really big fish. I gave him plenty of slack because my line was very
brittle and would snap easily if put under too much tension. I played with the fish until he was tired
and turned towards the bank. Then I began to reel in the slack, always being careful not to put too
much pressure on my line.

I succeeded in getting the fish to the bank. He was a monster, probably weighing eight or nine pounds. Honest.
As I said, I had the fish to the bank, but I did not have him out of the water
yet. This was a real dilemma. My line was much too brittle to pick him up with, and I did
not have a net to scoop him out.

So there I was, two feet from what would be the biggest fish I had ever caught and I couldn’t
get him out of the water. Finally, I decided that I would pick him up out of the water with
my hand. Ever so cautiously, I bent down...and eased my hand towards him until my fingers just touched the water.
Just then, the sun broke through the clouds, causing my hand to cast a shadow on the water. The shadow
startled the fish; he thrashed about, broke my line, and swam away. There is a moral to this story somewhere.
It's a moral that all fishermen know, although they may express it in different ways. I say, “The Lord giveth,
and the Lord taketh away.” What I’d like to know is, why doesn’t he ever take away the puny ones?

IMAC mixed double tourney yields drama
By MARK CROWTHER AND BOB SHERRILL

Seniors Kris Nelson and Carter Grine came from behind to defeat junior Tyler Stone and sophomore Kim Mullis 6-3, 4-6,
7-5 and to win the IMAC mixed doubles championship. Nelson’s consistent play enabled them to come back from a 1-4
deficit and win the final five games of the third set. Both teams played superbly through the two-hour and fifteen-minute
match. Each suffered setbacks and had to fight back to stay in the match. Neither team was unfamiliar with close
matches, however.

Nelson and Grine reached the finals after a series of tough matches. They had a three-set match earlier in which
they beat sophomores Mike Friedlander and Blanche Quinn. Stone and Mullis also had a rocky road to the semifinals. They
came from behind in the quarterfinals to defeat Charlie Summers and senior Laeta Kaligridis in three sets. Grine and Nelson
reached the finals by defeating juniors Craig Mattison and Kristin Malone in a tough battle, 7-5, 7-5. It was definitely
a team win in which Grine and Nelson displayed both power and consistency in the grueling two-hour match that was
played last Sunday afternoon.

Malone, who played varsity tennis last year, had to keep her partner in line in the first set. Mattison began
the match with a wooden racket and then finished with a borrowed racket after he threw his own racket over
the fence. Once he settled down, he played superbly in the second set. Grine, who once again donned his black
Chucks, played aggressively and successfully. Nelson was serving at 4-5 in the second set and faced two match points. She
fought them both off and held her serve. Mattison and Malone, who had rallied back from 1-4, proceeded to lose
the final two games.

In the other semifinal match, Stone and Mullis scraped by sophomores Charles Abney and Elizabeth Franklin in a match that
included two close breakers 7-6, 3-6, 7-6. The difference was made by the strong serving of Stone and Mullis. At
times they were inconsistent, but during the crucial junctions of the match, time and time again, Stone and Mullis came
up with big final serves to set up the point.

Announcing...
Studio & STYLE
Corner of Hwy. 115 and Faith Rd.
(3 Miles North of Davidson College)
The Re-Opening of Hair Designers
November 10th
Call 892-7952 or 892-7952 for Appointments

PERMANENT WAVE % Off
Mon-Sat. 9-til
HAIRCUT & STYLE $5 off (Male or Female)
CHILDREN’S HAIRCUT no appointment necessary

GET ON THE RIGHT TRACK TO A SCHOLARSHIP

Earning the gold bars of an Air Force officer is one track to the road of success. Air Force ROTC
provides the opportunity. And, you may be eligible to compete for a full scholarship that can pay full college tuition,
textbooks, fees, and $106 each academic month. Combined with your college degree, you're headed toward a challenging and rewarding future
as an Air Force officer. Air Force officers manage vital engineering projects, pilot and navigate aircraft, and supervise important programs.
But it all starts with Air Force ROTC. Don't settle for anything less. For a scholarship. For your future. Get
on the right track. Talk to:

AIR FORCE ROTC
LEADERSHIP EXCELLENCE STARTS HERE
