Geode [a ‘sports

Cats stung at the Hornets Nest but destroy Erskine

By PERRY MATHEWES

The Davidson basketball team split a pair of games this week to bring their record to 3-3. They demolished Erskine
89-63 last Wednesday night, but then lost the Hornet’s Nest Trophy Saturday night as they fell to UNC-Charlotte 77-70.

Davidson had little difficulty with Erskine as they ran away with the game early. Junior forward Jeff Himes scored the
Cats’ first six points as they jumped to a 10-2 lead over the Flying Fleet in the first four minutes.
After an Erskine basket, Davidson reeled off eight straight points. Junior point guard Derek Rucker led the way with two
long-range baskets, one for three points, and a dunk. Erskine never got closer than ten points while trying to struggle
back.

With Himes leading the attack, the Cats pulled steadily away. They led by as much as 21 points before heading
to the locker room with a 41-22 advantage. Senior forward Ace Tanner provided most of the offense early in the
second half. His first basket was a crowd-pleasing slam dunk. After two more baskets, sophomore Bill Sellers chipped in five
points. Then Tanner emphasized Davidson’s superiority with another jam to give Davidson a 56-35 lead. Davidson cruised to the finish,
leading by as many as 31 before finishing 89-63.

The team made several encouraging improvements during the game. Their passing was efficient and at times even spectacular. During the
first half, freshman forward Dick Seidel rifled a long outlet pass to junior guard Dean Keener. Keener did not catch
the ball but tipped it over to junior center Mike Gynn for an easy two points. In another play, senior
guard Chris Heineman made a diving steal and got a pass off before he hit the ground. Not only was
passing like that exciting, but it led to many easy baskets.

Davidson’s scoring attack was also more balanced. As usual, Himes led the team with 20 points, but Rucker and Tanner
both were in double figures with 15 and 12 points, respectively. The position of center produced more as well. Gynn,
Sellers, Seidel, and freshman Jay Schmitt shared time at this position and combined for 17 points (Schmitt had seven) and
eight rebounds.

In the UNCC game, Davidson jumped out to an early lead. Five minutes into the game, Himes hit a three-point
play for a 13-7 lead. UNCC pulled themselves back into the game and tied the score at 18-18. The 49ers
led 31-28 at the half. Rucker provided most of Davidson’s offense in the first half, scoring 10 points, including two
three-pointers.

In the second half, the Cats scrapped back and took a three-point lead when Tanner hit an inside shot with
13 minutes left. Davidson could not hold the lead for long. UNCC took charge as they started working inside. The
lack of a big man in the middle allowed the 49ers to dominate in the paint. Davidson’s only bright spot
at center was Seidel, who had four points and four rebounds in 15 minutes of play. Unfortunately, foul trouble limited
his aggressiveness and his playing time.

Davidson went down by as many as 11 with four minutes to play before closing the score at 77-70. Despite
Himes’ 25 points (19 in the second half), the Cats could not do much inside.

Senior Ace Tanner slams one home against UNCC.

The Cats played at Princeton last night and will take on Holy Cross this Saturday night in Charlotte.

Robert Nesbit

Upper weight classes shine in tough matches

By SUSAN WILKINS

The Davidson wrestling team put up their dukes twice this past week against Winston Salem State and Barber Scotia, but
were forced to concede defeat in both matches. The Wildcats lost...28-21 in a close match Wednesday at WSSU and lost
again Saturday at home against Barber Scotia 36-9. Davidson wrestled well against WSSU, a team with seven N.C. high school
state champions. Only two Cats were pinned and the other losses were close decisions. The upper weights did especially well
for the Wildcats, winning all four of their matches. At 118 pounds, freshman Holme Oltrogge lost 9-2 in a three-point
decision for WSSU. Oltrogge gave up many back points, but otherwise wrestled well. Freshman Bruce Newsome started at 126 pounds
rather than senior Michael Adams. Newsome’s match was an exciting one; unfortunately, he lost on a reversal in the last
twenty seconds of the final period. This match brought WSSU’s lead to 6-0. Adams moved up a weight class to
wrestle at 134 pounds. His opponent pinned him in the first period with a half-nelson. Adams was down 5-1 before
the WSSU player nailed him. At 142 pounds, sophomore Matt Merrill lost a four-point decision in his first regular season
match. Senior John T. Lay, weakened by having lost three and a half pounds the day of the match, lost
11-4 in a three-point decision at 150 pounds. Lay gave up most of his points on tilts. Sherb Sentell, the
sophomore 158-pounder, was pinned in a move called the cradle in the second period. Sentell was caught in this move
four times before his opponent could finish him off. Junior Doug Batcheller wrestled extremely well at 167 pounds, coming from
behind to win a three-point decision for the Wildcats. In the final minute of the match, Batcheller dominated and scored
two takedowns. At 190 pounds, junior Doug Saintsing had an easy time of it, winning by forfeit. Senior heavyweight Gary
Branch pinned his man — a 1986 N.C. high school state champion — after being thrown to his back and
reversing the WSSU wrestler for the Wildcats' final six points.

Saturday’s match against Barber Scotia was a tougher one for the Cats. Barber Scotia is always a hard team to
beat and this match was no exception. Oltrogge lost his match 7-1 at 118 pounds to an ex-134-pounder. He resisted
being pinned several times and lost points for a takedown and being turned to his back. Newsome, starting again at
126, was caught in a front headlock and consequently was pinned in the first period. Barber Scotia led the match
9-0 at this point. At 134, Adams' opponent used the T-bar stack to pin him in the second period. In
a heartbreaker of a loss, Merrill was pinned in the last second of the last period. Despite being behind in
points, Merrill was wrestling well until his opponent put him in the cradle to pin him. At 150 pounds, Lay
provided the Cats with their first win, using takedowns and the Peterson move to rack up points. His win gave
Davidson three points. Sentell, at 158 pounds, was caught in the same move in which WSSU caught him — the
cradle. He was pinned to give Barber Scotia a 27-3 lead.

At 167 pounds, Batcheller gave the Cats a ray of hope, coming from behind to win 3-0. He had a
chance to pin his man, but could not stick it to him. Heinze wrestled aggressively to leap ahead of his
man in the final period and win a three-point decision at 177 pounds. His opponent used the lateral drop against
Heinze successfully in the first period, but Heinze got wise and countered in the remaining two periods. At 190 pounds,
Saintsing lost a three-point decision to an extremely heavy 190-pounder. Branch, Davidson’s heavyweight, was defeated by a move named the
Japanese Wizard. The Barber Scotia man pinned him with it in the first period to end the match with a
36-9 score.
