6 Friday, January 24, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Producers is Mel Brooks through and through

By JENNY LIVINGSTON

Mel Brooks is Mel Brooks is Mel Brooks. His stamp is indelible and absolutely unmistakable. From its camera angles to its casting, The Producers is Mel Brooks through and through. If you love Mel Brooks, you'll love the movie; if you hate him, you'll hate the movie. If you love Mel Brooks, read on; if you hate him, go ahead and turn the page.

The Producers is about a Broadway producer (Zero Mostel) who hasn't had a hit for years who, with accountant Gene Wilder, discovers a way to make a bundle on a flop. So begins their quest for the worst play, the worst director, and the worst cast. They choose a lovely little number called “Springtime for Hitler,” written by a (not quite) former Nazi. Of course, the plan backfires and the play’s a hit. That’s about the extent of the plot. I’ve always hated movie reviewers who tell the whole story, but in this movie, it doesn’t really matter. First of all, the whole premise is set in the first ten minutes; and after that, it’s pretty obvious where it’s going. And anyway, Brooks uses the plot simply to serve as a skeleton on which to hang his bizarre humor. He has little interest (or need of interest, as far as I’m concerned) in exploring the plot for its own sake.

He takes somewhat of the same approach with his characters. Initially, they seem fairly stock: the conniving businessman, the timid accountant, the wild granny, the flaming homosexual, etc. But he uses these one-dimensional characters in a one-dimensional plot to produce totally unpredictable comedy which transcends the bounds he sets out. Transcendental humor — what a concept. And the best part is, the whole thing works beautifully. For although Brooks’ personal style permeates the film, he does not hold the reins so tightly that the actors become pawns or robots. It is a precarious balance, but one he maintains well. Brooks trusts his actors enough to let them act. And act they do. Gene Wilder is hysterically funny in his neuroses as the accountant. And Zero Mostel is a perfect foil as the producer. Their timing is impeccable and their chemistry dynamic.

I suppose this is all awfully cerebral for such a light movie. The bottom line is that it’s good. That is, if you like Mel Brooks...

Scottish band reconciles Christianity and pop

By LEE EICHELBERGER

On the boundaries of pop (Glasgow, Scotland, that is) live Lloyd Cole and the Commotions who refine and reinvent pop cliches as do no other group today. While their style can be traced to Lou Reed, the Cars, Elvis Costello, and the best mid-sixties English pop, Cole and his band invigorate the pop style with a dash of humility and Christian optimism, yet without bowing to sentimentality.

Their first effort, Rattlesnakes, established the band as a group with a new vision of what pop is and can be. Ultimately, that happiness, despair, love, friendship, and Christianity are all reconcilable in the confines of pop themes. On their latest disc, 2 Easy Pieces, Cole and the Commotions expand lyrically on the theme of reconciliation while retreating from the ambitious musical structure that marked Rattlesnakes. The album begins...with “Rich” which is very much in the style of the Cars, except a horn section replaced hard-edged guitars. Lyrically, the style here is (again like the Cars) eclectic, “and money is for taking yes and rich is what to be forsaken grey and giving it away,” even adding an emphatically deadpan Ocasek, “Hey!”. But after “Rich” such direct comparisons aren't valid, which is fortunate. “Why I Love Country Music” is a uniquely novel song. It begins, “Jane is fine always fine/ She tells lies most of the time.” The theme is your standard bittersweet not-quite-broken relationship, but it asks disturbingly, “We're killing time and we feel fine well what’s the crime?”. All this against an easy-going melody establishes an engaging paradox. “Grace” has Cole helping out a former lover who has fallen on bad times, (“Once you were an angel”). Propelled by a bouncy Beatlesque tune, Cole resolves sunnily, “Out in the summer rain we will begin again”. But “Cut Me Down” ends the side disappointingly. Cole’s mournful “I’ve been aching just to fall/ Cut me down” just isn’t believable and doesn’t suit his aloof candor. “Brand New Friend”, the album’s best track, is highlighted by Lou Reed style vocals and a thoroughly new sound. Cole begins, “Walking in the pouring rain/ Walking with Jesus and Jane” and ends “I don’t know when I'll be content but I do know I need a brand new friend.” It is simple, subtle, and gently uplifting. Except for “Lost Weekend” and “Perfect Blue”, the rest of the record is burdened by lyrical excesses which eclipse the talent and precision of the Commotions. Producers Clive Langer and Alan Winstanley are largely to blame for bringing Cole’s vocals to the forefront of the mix when the Commotion’s playing should balance them. Still, while 2 Easy Pieces does not live up to the promise of Rattlesnakes, it does not greatly diminish it. This is a record of richness and subtle power, and Cole and the Commotions are a group with real potential. This record deserves to be heard simply because there is little comparable to Lloyd Cole and the Commotions in pop music today.

Congratulations

The ROTC Department along with the Red Cross sponsored a blood drive held on Monday, Jan. 10. Congratulations go to Davidson College and the Davidson Community for a successful blood drive. We collected 200 pints of blood that will be used to help those in need. The more than helpful businesses of the local Davidson area were kind enough to give gifts for door prizes that were drawn for Jan. 12. The winners and the businesses were the following:

First Union National Bank P.O. Box 39
Winners:
Carolina Cones — one-half gallon each — Nick Lowther and Susie Beckham
Giorgio’s — one small two topping pizza — Tina Ramsaur
The Needlecraft Center — stitchables — Arlene Bach
Davidson Drygoods — $10 gift certificate — Laura Johnson
Buttery and Beanery — $5 gift certificate — Leddy Hurt
Natural Resources — $5 gift certificate — Whitney Montgomery
Copeland House — Poster — Steve Baggerly
The Village Store — two $5 gift certificates — David Snider and John Wightman
Peregrine House — 16” pizza one topping — John McNeill
M&M Soda Shop — $5 gift certificate — Jane Price
Norton's Barber Shop — two bottles of shampoo — Robert Davidson