Volume LXXVI, Number 3 Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

The Davidsonian
Friday, September 26, 1986

Administrative offices relocate to perimeter houses
By NELLE MCCORKLE

Three administrative departments recently moved from first floor Chambers following Space Committee recommendations. These relocations are Alumni Relations/Annual Fund to
McConnell House and College Relations Office to Copeland House during the past two weeks; the Physical Plant Office relocated to
Jackson Court in August. Removal of these offices permitted the creation of a classroom, a seminar room, and ten faculty
offices. Within Chambers, the former first floor faculty/staff mailroom is now an Admissions Office slide show area; the mailroom now
operates from the basement.

Appointed by President John Kuykendall, the Space Committee consists of psychology professor and Associate Dean of the Faculty John Kelton,
Vice President for Development and Institutional Advancement John Griffith, and Director of Facilities Planning Grover Meetze, Jr. Following this committee’s
recommendations, Kuykendall decided to make the suggested changes. “It [creation of a new academic area within Chambers] reflects the highest
of the capital priorities for the Strategic Planning Committee for capital planning,” Kuykendall said. “This administrative diaspora will continue gradually.”

Eventual removal of administrative offices not directly related to academics from Chambers is planned, but Kuykendall cited the Registrar, Dean
of the Faculty, and Dean of Students as examples of offices expected to remain in the building. “This would imply
eventually some sort of separate administration building for the college in which the major administrative offices would be gathered in
one place. That's in the dreaming stage because we have no idea what or where this building will be or
whether it will be a renovated or a new building,” he said.

Director of Alumni Relations and Annual Fund Jamie May said of his department’s new setting, “First of all, we now
don’t have an office — we have an alumni house, so it’s more than an office. The fact that the
Alumni Association and the Annual Fund are in the same building will make for easier coordinating between the two.” Asked
whether he anticipated decreased student contact due to separation from the main classroom building, May responded, “I would expect a
more effective, substantial relationship than the drop-in relationship we had in Chambers. Particularly I think that'll be the case with
the senior class who'll have this house as the headquarters for the senior class gift and class banquet. When the
Alumni Association learned that it was the president’s

By JIM DILLON

Davidson College was an important factor in the decision to build a Holiday Inn in nearby Cornelius, according to States
Lee, project coordinator of real estate development for Crescent Land and Timber, the developers of the motel. The project at
the intersection of Catawba Avenue and I-77 began during the summer, and a building permit was attained Sept. 3 at
which time construction began. The projected opening date for the motel is April 1, 1987. “We felt that it was
a good use of the property,” said Lee. “There is no hotel between Statesville and Charlotte except for the Comfort
Inn at Sunset Road, and we felt there was a market for it. With the LakeIntention to restore first-floor Chambers
to its academic function, Alumni Association President William Davis '60 asked for McConnell House, which we considered to be the
most hospitable and gracious of the perimeter houses. Built in 1914 for history and economics professor and Dean of Faculty
Joseph McConnell, the house has served as student housing since 1983. Structural changes for its first use as a non-residence
include the construction of a wooden deck and glass enclosure of a porch. Twice the square footage of the Alumni
Association and Annual Fund’s former quarters, the McConnell location provides space for entertaining and small meetings, according to Assistant Alumni
Director Cissi Fulenwider Lyles.

Also now possessing twice its former working area, the College Relations Office anticipates a slightly changed relationship with students because
of its new setting. According to Director of College Relations Jerry Stockdale, “We were right in the mainstream, and we
are no longer. But having said that, I don’t think it will be detrimental. We want students to come to
us, and we do have a number of work-study students, but contact with the general student body is not crucial
to our operation. We would like to establish stronger ties with The Davidsonian and with Quips and Cranks, but that’s
not related to our move; we wanted to do that anyway. We feel we can be a resource to them,
since we’re in the business of writing, editing, and publishing for the college.” Stockdale mentioned possible cooperation among college publications
in the use of the newly-constructed Copeland House darkroom. Copeland House will also serve as headquarters for the organization of
sesquicentennial programs.

Preston Page, Cornelius’ town administrator, said he thought Davidson College had little to do with the decision to build the
motel in Cornelius. “It’s a busy intersection with a lot of traffic. Duke Power was real important in the decision.
Davidson College had nothing to do with it as far as I know, but I’m sure they looked at all
their possible customers,” Page said. The motel will consist of 120 rooms, a restaurant, a lounge, meeting rooms, and a
lobby.

Jane French of the Guest House said she thinks the Holiday Inn is a welcome addition to the Davidson-Cornelius community.
“We're delighted they’re coming,” said French. “We (at the Guest House) certainly have problems trying to house everyone. Very often,
rooms are reserved by the President’s Office and the Dean’s Office before we can get to the students. We have
about 50 trustees and only eight rooms so what do we do then? I think it’s great that they won’t
have to go so far to find a motel.”
