Friday, March 14, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bleachers
Born’s shot fits definition of clutch
By MIKE ADAMS

The Clutch. There are many measures of athletic greatness, but one test every athlete must face is how well he
performs in the clutch. The clutch is a high-pressure situation in which a player can make or break a game,
a series, or a season. If he succeeds, he is a hero; if he fails, he is at worst a
goat and at best forgotten. When athletes overcome the pressure of clutch situations, doing their best when the chips are
down, we remember their accomplishments. Despite her subsequent over-exposure — she advertises seemingly every product on television — the perfect
10 Mary Lou Retton pulled in the vault is the memory of her that stands foremost in our minds. Michael
Jordan has had hundreds of great games and great moments, but the shot that Tarheel fans and Tarheel haters best
remember is the 14-footer that beat Georgetown in the NCAA Championships. Jack Clark, St. Louis Cardinal slugger, changed a season
with one swing of the bat when he put the Cards in the World Series with a game-winning home run.

The failure to come through with the big play or the big shot in a pressure situation is often memorable
as well. The Georgetown player who threw the ball away in the final seconds of the NCAA Championship game will
be remembered for that and little else. The only thing little Chuckie Driesell of Maryland will be remembered for is
that he had a potential game-winning lay-up swatted away by Michael Jordan. A more recent memory is of Craig Neal’s
self-professed “choke” on an open jumper that gave Duke the ACC Tournament championship over Georgia Tech.

Senior Gerry Born of the Southern Conference champion Wildcats was faced with just such a clutch situation in the championship
game against UT-Chattanooga. Let's set the scene. The Cats had the ball with just a few seconds remaining and the
scoreboard showing 40-all. There was time for one shot. Make it and Davidson wins and gets a berth in the
NCAA Tournament for the first time since 1970. Miss it and the game goes into overtime and, based on overtime
performances of the last two or three years, Davidson probably loses the game and ends the season right there. And
so, with time running out and the season hanging in the balance, the ball comes to Born. Born, better known
for his inside rebounding and scoring than for his outside shot, gets the ball twenty-five feet from the basket. There
is no time to look for a better opportunity, so he shoots — and cans it. Davidson wins the game,
the tournament, and a shot at the National Championship. Now that's Clutch.

Lady Cats conclude with tournament victory
Continued from page 8

had a great game, finishing with 16 points, and junior Heather McKee grabbed 12 rebounds to go with her 13
points. After the Coker game, the team traveled to Meredith College for an invitational tournament to close out their season.
The Cats coasted in the opener against St. Mary’s. They pulled out to a 39-17 halftime lead and went on
to win 65-42. Junior center Pam Harmann played an outstanding first half, collecting 10 points and six rebounds before being
forced to leave with an injured knee that would keep her out for the rest of the tournament. McKee had
another strong game on the boards with 10 rebounds and 10 points. Artman had 16 points and Dawkins led the
team with 19.

In the finals, Davidson faced Warren Wilson in what figured to be a close contest, but the Cats opened an
11-point lead by halftime and held on to win 76-67. Dawkins was simply awesome, leading Davidson with 29 points and
17 rebounds. Artman and McKee continued their fine play with 19 and 18 points respectively. Davidson took home the first
place prize and Dawkins was named tournament MVP.

The amazing turnaround of the team from a 3-18 record (with two forfeits) to 10-8 is a result of several
factors. This year’s team bears little resemblance to that of the recent past. Last year, the inside game rested...Solely on
the shoulders of McKee while Hartman was called on to carry the team from outside. This season five new faces
gave the Cats balance and depth they could only have dreamed of in past years. Dawkins is perhaps one of
the strongest inside players ever seen at Davidson. She led the team in both scoring and rebounding with 21.2 points
and 11.1 boards per game. Twice she scored 29 points in a game and in the first game of the
season, she grabbed an amazing 21 rebounds. She also blocked 55 shots on the season (3.06 per game).

Artman, a transfer, was another big key for the Cats, scoring 18.6 points a game, many of them coming on
long-range bombs that forced other teams to move their defense out, opening up room for the Cats' strong inside game.
She was rock solid all year long, starting all 17 games that she played. Coach Patty Daley said of her,
“She has possibly the most commitment of any player I have ever coached.”

Harmann was a member of the team two years ago but injured a knee before ever seeing action that year.
In her first full season this year, she was a steady performer collecting 6.8 points and 5.9 rebounds per game
while alternately starting and coming off the bench. Freshman Sara Whitesides started 15 games for Davidson at point guard, which
was a new position for her. Her ball handling steadily improved throughout the season and she added a considerable dose
of quickness and defense to the lineup. Sophomore center Beth Elder, although short on experience, saw more and more action
as the year went on and added strong rebounding and defense whenever she was in the game.

Returning starters and co-captains McKee and Hartman adjusted well to their different roles. McKee provided extra inside punch with 12.8
points and 7.3 rebounds per game. She collected a season-high 23 points against Furman. Hartman was the only player to
start all 18 games. She provided solid backcourt play all season with 7.4 points per game. She was also the
team leader in steals with 59 and in assists with 44.

Perhaps the most difficult job of all was occupied by seniors Debbie Adams and Wendy Fulks who both braved the
barren years of Davidson women's basketball leading up to this season. Although their playing time dwindled with the influx of
new talent this year, their contribution to the team remained extremely valuable. The change in the face of women's basketball
at Davidson this year was nothing short of miraculous. The team went from being a perennial doormat to a winning
team that outscored their opponents by an average of 6.6 points. They exhibited a well-balanced attack that included threats from
the inside as well as long range, and with four starters returning, things may even get better.

Summer jobs in Massachusetts
The director of Camp Becket, one of the most highly regarded camps in the United States, will be interviewing students
on Wednesday, March 19. A variety of openings are available. Contact the Student Placement Office for further information and an
appointment.

LOOKING FOR A PLACE TO TAKE THE AFROTC DETACHMENTS LISTED ABOVE AND ASK ABOUT THE “CROSSTOWN” PROGRAM. HERE ARE SOME
MORE FACTS THAT MAY BE OF INTEREST.
- Courses are open to college men and women.
- Full scholarships are available that pay tuition, books, and lab and incidental fees, plus $100 a month during the
school year.
- You work toward an Air Force commission upon graduation.
- You have an opportunity to serve your country as an Air Force officer.
- You don't have to be enrolled in these schools to attend the AFROTC program there.

Check it out right away. You'll find a brand new kind of opportunity. For more information, call or write ROTC.

AIR FORCE ROTC? LOOK HERE:
Not all colleges and universities in the United States have Air Force ROTC programs. And we recognize that many people
want to enter the two or four-year program and are looking for a school where they can take it. Call
or visit one of the AFROTC detachments listed above and ask about the “Crosstown” program. Here are some more facts
that may be of interest.
