Opinion | The Davidsonian Friday, September 19, 1986

Hall counselors Bob Boyd and Jim Earle

Here it is, the beginning of the 1986 school year and looking around Davidson it is apparent that we are going through a time of transition. Some of these changes are welcome, uncontroversial, and needed. But others are raising questions. Davidson is out of the Southern Conference, there is a new roof on Chambers, we have a new and improved Belk dorm (YEA!!), the state has given us a new drinking age, and there is a new social conduct policy for freshmen. It is this last item that we wish to discuss in this article.

The low quality of work and poor attendance rate amongst both males and females caused concern within the faculty and administration. At the end of last year, the CCRL got together and wrote a policy which limits the freshmen’s participation on Patterson Court greatly. This policy has met both strong criticism and support. Our role as hall counselors has forced us to be directly involved and concerned about this policy, and we have some insights of which the average Davidson student should be aware.

Last year, due mainly to the pressures of rush, the freshman class was absorbed in continuous partying on the Court. Freshman guys especially felt extreme pressure to attend any and all parties. The result was one of the poorest academic showings of any freshman class ever. The low quality of work and poor attendance rate amongst both males and females caused concern within the faculty and administration. They called for student involvement in solving this problem. The answer: freshmen may not take part in Court activities for the first five weeks of school.

When we as hall counselors applied for the positions, this policy was not in action. As we learned of it, we as a group experienced many anxieties. Foremost was our concern that hall counselors would simply become social directors for a bunch of helpless freshmen. Furthermore, we feared that freshmen would seek off-campus entertainment to replace the Court, thus placing lives in danger. We envisioned discontent amongst the class of ’90 in not being able to meet upperclassmen, and we feared this discontent being turned into hall-wide bitterness towards the school.

However, this policy is now two weeks old, and (at least on our hall) these anxieties have proved to be unfounded and have not been realized. Social planning has not been a problem. In fact, it has allowed closer bonds to form between freshmen through mixers and other random gatherings. We believe this whole trend will result in a much more unified class of ’90. The mixers we have had have been the most successful and meaningful of any we have seen in the past two years. Just as the first few years of a child’s life are key to his future development, the first few weeks of school greatly determine one’s study and social habits for all the college years. The reduced pressure from the Court gives the freshmen that needed opportunity to form successful study habits. This fact is one of the policy’s main intentions, and we feel it has worked so far. In the end, the policy helps to turn out a well-adjusted, unified freshman class.

Another unforeseen advantage of the policy is the regrowth of the Union as a real social force at Davidson. Pressure has been put on the Union Board to plan more activities for both freshmen and upperclassmen alike. The result is an excellent alternative to the Court for social activities.

We began by saying that this is a transition year at Davidson. The success or failure of these new policies rides solely upon the entire student body. We feel the five-week policy is a good and needed one. It will not only benefit the freshmen, but we believe upperclassmen will find it advantageous, also. However, it requires your support. Give it a try and let’s see how it works.

Bob Boyd and Jim Earle are junior hall counselors.

Perry urges reaction to journalist incident

Dr. Jack R. Perry

Like two behemoths in a small pool, the United States and the Soviet Union touch each other whenever they turn, and moments of friction cannot be avoided. The heavy-handed Soviet detention of U.S. News & World Report correspondent Nick Daniloff reminds us of that cold fact of life. Nick Daniloff was the UPI correspondent when my wife and I were serving at the U.S. Embassy in Moscow in the early ’60s. I consider him an old colleague.and am angered by his treatment. It will be unfortunate if great-power arrogance should lead the Soviet regime to believe it can make the rest of the world play by its rules.

My friend, a Lithuanian chargé d'affaires in Paris, used to say that whenever East and West start to solve some problems, you can count on the Russians to cause new ones. Most “incidents” fit into the category of espionage and counterespionage. The East-West struggle for fresh, usable intelligence is relentless. The efforts of our government and theirs to find out each other’s secrets take many forms. We consider journalism outside this contest; the Soviets do not. The sides are quite unequal, of course. The USSR is a closed society and a police state. It is relatively easy for us to find out things about them by satellite or by listening devices, but not to get inside their society. The Soviet regime — in particular the KGB, which is charged with internal security — is paranoid about protecting “secrets,” and the Soviet Union uses a fantastically broad definition of “secrets.” The Soviets believe, rightly or wrongly, that many of their citizens are ready to divulge “secrets” to foreigners, and that American diplomats and military attachés and businessmen and journalists are all potential dangers to the Soviet state. The KGB is always pressing for severe restrictions on foreigners.

We Americans have a wide-open society in which thousands of potential communist intelligence collectors are free to roam. Only one group, the FBI (and its parent, the Justice Department), stays exercised about these spies in our midst; the FBI is charged with counterespionage and must try to keep track of them all. This creates conflict. The FBI would like to be as restrictive as possible on communist-country visitors and as tough as possible on agents apprehended. Others, such as the State Department and CIA and Defense, worry about spying here, but their business is gathering intelligence abroad. They’re more concerned about reciprocity: They want Americans to be as free as possible to get around in the communist countries. The upshot is continual intelligence warfare. From time to time an incident breaks the surface to remind the public that the underground warfare is going on.

The Daniloff imbroglio may have started with our tough treatment of Gennadi Zakharov, arrested at the U.N. for espionage. Each side has its own conception of the rules of the counterespionage game — that is one reason it is so complex and perilous. The Soviets may have thought our treatment of Zakharov violated the “rules.” (One can imagine the difference in opinion between officials of the State and Justice departments over the handling of the case.) In Moscow, those charged with broad East-West relations may have been unhappy with the arrest of Daniloff as a riposte (if that is what it was) to the treatment of Zakharov. It is disturbing that the weight of the KGB was apparently so great that the Soviet government would ignore long-standing “rules” and violate principles that they must know are extremely important in the West. The crude tactic of planting “secrets” on Daniloff did not give them pause; nor did the Western conception that the press is outside the counterespionage game.

There is evidence that the Gorbachev push for glasnost (openness) is to be combined with a new stringency in internal security. It will be unfortunate if great-power arrogance should lead the Soviet regime to believe it can make the rest of the world play by its rules. I would suggest three points to ponder from the Daniloff incident:

First, we the West must insist loudly that journalists are not fair game as part of the counterespionage warfare. The American press in particular should continue to make as much noise on Nick’s behalf as it can.

Second, we have to recognize that the Soviets have their own conception of the rules. We need not accept them, but we have to recognize that if we break the rules as they see them, there will be consequences.

Third, recognizing the inevitability of incidents in the tense neighborship of the two behemoths, we should seek a multiplicity of channels and contacts between us and the Soviets. Incidents such as the Daniloff case always make us want to rise up in righteous anger and cut off contacts. Our security, and the world’s, rests on having such a multiplicity of contacts that the ever-recurring incidents can be kept in a safe perspective.

Dr. Perry is a retired diplomat and director of the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies. This opinion is published with the permission of The Charlotte Observer.