Lafayette trounces Wildcats, p. 10

Theft dampers homecoming celebration at PAX

By JIM DILLON

Two purses containing cameras and a total of $400 were stolen during a party last Friday at PAX.

PAX social chairman Kendra Carré hid her purse, which contained $300 of PAX social money budgeted for homecoming weekend, $100
of her own money, and a camera, under a box in a storage closet in the basement of the house
after partially paying the band present at the party at 2:15 a.m. last Friday, according to Holly Sparks, PAX president.
At 2:30 a.m., Carr went to get her purse to pay the band the rest of their money but discovered
that the purse was gone. It was also discovered that a jacket, a mug, and Sparks’ purse, which contained a
camera, were missing.

The robbery at PAX was one of a number of robberies that occurred on campus during Homecoming weekend. Chief security
officer Jackie Hughes was unavailable for comment on the robberies. The college police were contacted concerning the incident at PAX,
and all of the stolen items were reported. Currently, only Sparks’ purse has been found. It was discovered behind the
Black Student Coalition house, and her camera was missing.

"I'm positive it wasn’t a Davidson student who did it,” Carr said. “I have some clues, but there’s no way
of proving it.” Carr said three people, not from Davidson, were seen in the storage closet, but it was thought
that they were looking for a ping pong ball. Carr said she suspects people from Lafayette College who were present
at the party were actually guilty of the theft, but she said the number of people on campus for Homecoming
weekend makes it hard to identify the people.

“There was just less control on who was where, and people were less aware than usual,” Carr said. “We had
22 alumni come back, and some people didn’t know who they were, and there were people from Lafayette there, and
so there were just lots of people who were unidentifiable. They could have been alumni. They could have been Lafayette
people. They could have been townies. Who knows?"

The stolen money should not affect the PAX social budget because the $300 of PAX’s money was intended for Homecoming
and was money that had not been spent, according to Carr. Sparks said money was gathered to pay the band
the remaining portion of their fee.

“It wasn't like I left it lying about,” Carr said. “It was underneath a box under a chair in a
restricted part of the house which means that everyone down there was 21. That eliminates most of Davidson. It’s just
frustrating.”

Homecoming queen Lucinde Kellam

Friday, October 24, 1986

East German parliament members visit campus

By NELLE MCCORKLE

Five East German parliament members visited Davidson Monday as part of a cultural exchange tour sponsored by the U.S. Information
Agency through the State Department. Elected to the German Democratic Republic Volkskammer, or People’s Chamber, these parliamentary members belong to
an East German young leaders’ group and range in age from 29-39. They represent different geographic areas of the country.
Arranged by Charlotte’s International Housethrough the Dean Rusk Program. Dr. Jack Perry, the Davidson visit, constituted part of a three-week
American tour including stops in Charlotte, Minneapolis, New York City, Sacramento, and Washington, D.C. The group travels with a State
Department translator/guide. While in Davidson, the East Germans toured the campus informally and attended a reception with German-speaking students and
faculty at the Carolina Inn.

Political science professor Louis Ortmayer, who helped Perry plan the visit, said, “Our purpose was to introduce them to a
small private college, a type of education they don't have in East Germany, where all higher education is state-funded and
state-run.” Ortmayer invited seniors who participated in Davidson’s Marburg junior year abroad program during 1985-86 to meet the East Germans.
He said, “From my perspective, it was particularly fortunate that we have the type of student who can do this
on short notice — meeting foreigners and conversing with them in their language.”

Senior Mike Ladd traveled in East Germany last year while a student at Marburg. He said of Monday's visitors, “Although
they may have been a little apprehensive, we were able to talk very frankly and on a wide variety of
subjects. Both sides enjoyed the afternoon tremendously, and we were at complete ease with one another. They were very friendly
and eager to keep in touch later on.”

“Conversations were generally one-on-one, including everything from our college education system to the price of attending Patterson Court to the
nuclear arms race to the mini-summit to the role of women in socialist countries," senior Sonia Daugherty said.

The college released no campus-wide advance publicity announcing the East Germans’ visit. “We wanted them to stroll around just like
they were visitors to the campus, not like some staged event. That's why what we did was successful. They seemed
very grateful for the chance to converse openly and informally with students and faculty at the college,” Ortmayer said.

Regarding the East Germans’ impressions of Davidson, Ortmayer said, “I think they found it interesting in its contrast to what
they’re used to and fascinating in its almost rural setting. They were also very impressed by the facilities — like
the Commons which they just couldn’t get over as a student eating place.”

None of the East German delegation visiting Davidson had previously traveled to the United States, except one cross-country skiing gold
medalist at the 1980 Lake Placid Winter Olympics. Ortmayer said, “Their perceptions of us are conditioned by the Cold War,
the Berlin Wall, by the tensions in Europe over nuclear arms and simply by their different system, their communist system
there.”

Conversation occurred in German because only one East German visitor spoke English. Ortmayer said of Perry, “In the end, he
found himself conversing with one visitor in Russian.” Other faculty participants included German professors Douglas Stott and Mark McCulloh, history
professor Earl Edmondson, and Vice President for Academic Affairs, Dean of Faculty and history professor Robert Williams.

Features:
Inside Art: French Hitchcock and Pseudo-Hollywood Confidentially Yours reviewed
Sports: Poetry, pictures, prose Soccer victorious in Homecoming contest
Opinions: Divestment seen as logical decision to help end apartheid
Page 6 Page 7 Page 11 Page 15
