14

quench

moe Oe

so i empty her glass into my chapped mouth and nothing happens — she smiles and licks her perfect lips
and smithers from the room as i hurl the glass at a wall and watch the million pieces flash like
sparks of water, and i smile too, finally (for a second) Shattered.

then i play with the pretty pieces till the blood comes and at last i quench my thirst.

Chuck Crews

A Collage of Abstracts
a shoe with no heel

What do you see?

What do you imply?

A movement, an intonation of The voice — does it mean anything?

What do you want to say —

I refer to something not realizing well oblivious He uses a phrase oh well What’s the point. I am tired

C.C.C:

The Killing Joke

When I close my eyes I think of you

When I open them I think of someone else Love is funny that way.

The heart is a dangerous weapon It plays too many games.

Sometimes I wonder if I love you Other times I forget to ask. Love is funny

That way you keep me awake at night — I love therefore I am. I think I love too much,
I think I love you too much. My heart is a dangerous enemy, Love is funny that way.

Wednesday, December 10, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Carnival.

I am caught in a pinwheel spinning backwards in the breeze.

And I land amidst the carnival with my friends who are children.

We skip and laugh eating cotton candy which melts on our teeth into cavities,

we scream as the roller coaster whips around too fast, it won’t stop —

Until we enter the funhouse which we love, but the mirrors make us tall —

we are grown and we are trapped forever in this house.

this pinwheel spins violently forward and is lost

Anonymous

Concatenation to the Big Sea of Thought
Will went fishing in the big sea of thought: Bernard Hart And showed his grandma what he’d caught

She cried out — “Get rid of that thing, Will you, Will? It stinks!”

Anonymous

Pardon Me

Fat frozen frog-mud Bellies stuck under decayed leaf-mush Spotted penguin begging for hommos* Flies to Arabia Boils Plagues, famines, fascism
Hang Ionesco On the wall There is a picture of a fat boy Good ole’ boy Come boy come boy
come come

*Hommos: a dish composed of ground garbanzos, spices, etc.; it resembles grits from a distance, but tastes much better, I’d
say. Not very American.

in the blizzard.

Anne Cartledge

“Hey Mike, isn’t this supposed to be the editors’ box?”

“Gee Lee, I s’pose so.”

“Well then, hmmm... well we are the editors right?”

“Yeah... well Lee, what the hey are you driving at?”

“Have we got anything interesting to say this week? Read any good books,... lately? Umm, anything?”

“Hmmmm.”

“Well, we are supposed to be the guardians and upholders of culture and higher thought here at good ole Davidson,
right Mike?”

(Pause)

“That’s you.”

“Oh...”

“Culture? Thought,... higher???”

“Well I always thought”

“No Lee, not really.”

“But...”

Inside Art needs help. Yours. Soon.

Please.

The editors can’t continue in this vegetative state. Too many hours lurched over a computer keyboard. Too many nights at
the layout board.

Volunteer your time.

A mind is a terrible thing to waste.

Paid for by the friends of: Mike Jarmon, editor of drawings, pictures, prints some photos; etc. Lee Eichelberger, editor of
the other things. “Friends... ? Hmmm...”
