- Sports: Page

Baseball season ends with a fizzle

By EDWIN PAGE
Is it me, or is there something slightly odd about the 1986 baseball season? Here it is the beginning of October, when all true fans should be enthralled in the heat of the pennant races, and instead everyone is napping until the regular season finally grinds to a halt.

As a National League fan, this has been a particularly boring year. The Mets clinched sometime in late April, and no team in the NL West has been able to get within sight of the Astros since the Giants faded right after the All-Star break. Basically, there are two good teams in the National League and they are in different divisions. This does not make for exciting baseball.

The American League has been a good bit more surprising and interesting, but also failed to deliver a single close race. Toronto tried valiantly to press the Red Sox (no pun intended), but Boston, showing no taste for excitement, went and won eleven straight games. This is no way to run a pennant race. Sure I’m happy that the Sox won, but couldn’t they at least have left it in doubt for another week or so?

The Angels surprised everybody by winning the American League West and proved that last year’s second place finish was no fluke, but where were the Royals? It’s great to see a team like Texas finally emerge from the depths to finish second, but could you really ever believe they might win? Everyone whined so loudly two years ago when it was a struggle to stay above .500 and win the west, but I’ll take two mediocre teams fighting it out over no race at all.

The Boggs-Mattingly race for the batting title is the only thing left to care about during the regular season, and it looks like that might be all but over too. On Tuesday Boggs, exhibiting a Sox-like lack of dramatic flair, went four for four to increase his lead over Mattingly to nine points.

Wake me when the playoffs start.

Cats’ cross country heads the pack at Invitational

By MIKE ADAMS

Led by two freshmen, the Davidson women’s cross country team powered to a first place finish in the Winthrop Invitational last Saturday. The men’s team took fourth place in the meet. The Davidson women beat a field of 10 teams by placing two racers in the top five and three in the top ten. Freshman English Knowles was the Lady Cats’ top finisher, placing second in the meet. Freshman Missy Willis and junior Laura Fannin also placed in the top 10, finishing fifth and tenth respectively.

Rounding out the scoring for the Cats were two women who had never run in a cross country meet before Saturday: freshman Lisa Culbertson, 18th, and junior Karen Kemerait, 22nd. Head coach Gary Andrew was pleasantly surprised by their initial performance.

Senior Greg Foreman led the men to their fourth place finish out of a 14 team field. He turned in a time of 27:29, good enough for 11th place in the meet.

The men ran well as a group; the fifth place finisher was only 76 seconds behind Foreman. Junior Chris Fischer was 15th, sophomore Bill Whitfield was 18th, freshman Jay Clugston was 27th and freshman David Remisiewicz was 28th.

“Both teams ran real strongly,” said Andrew. “Right now we’re running on strength and endurance, so any speed they showed was natural speed.”

Andrew believes the team is right on schedule with his training program and that speed work beginning immediately will sharpen both squads as they move into the Southern Conference season.

“The heat and humidity took their toll in Saturday’s meet,” said Andrew. The unseasonable weather continues to pose difficulties for the Cats training.

Main St. Davidson
892-7805

Lake Norman
892-9046

Delivering to Davidson College-
Pizza * Sandwiches * Drinks

Mon. - Thurs. 11:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.
Fri. and Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.
Sunday 4:30 p.m. - 10:00 p.m.

FREE!