Wednesday, March 26, 1986

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Hamutenya speaks on Namibian crisis

By DAVID WILLIAMS

Namibian citizen Lucia Hamutenya, a member of SWAPO (Southwest Africa People’s Organization) and a Political Affairs officer for Namibia at
the United Nations in New York, spoke to Davidson students and faculty last Wednesday on the present condition of Namibia.
Namibia is the only colony in Africa and is occupied by South African military forces.

“The South African forces have brought death and destruction to the Namibian people,” Hamutenya said. “Yet the Namibian people are
continuing a struggle they have fought since 1884, when the German colonialists ‘discovered’ Namibia.”

Hamutenya said that trade unions carried on the Namibian resistance movement between 1907 and 1960 by resisting South Africa’s attempts
to remove the Namibian people from the cities to homelands. “As dissatisfaction with apartheid increased,” she said, “the people got
more and more unified and formed an organization. These groups came together in the form of a national liberation movement
— SWAPO — in April, 1960. South Africa reacted to this by detaining the leaders of SWAPO.”

Hamutenya said that SWAPO leaders were finally forced into exile.

Hamutenya added that by admission of the South Africans themselves, SWAPO today can “harness” over 80 percent of the population.
“This includes women, children, youth, and the elderly,” she said.

Hamutenya said that the diplomatic struggle against South Africa has also been successful. “The entire international community supports the Namibian
people,” she said. “We have the support of the O.A.U., the Organization for African Unity, which has given us shelter
and food. SWAPO also enjoys the support of the U.N., which declared SWAPO in 1973 as the sole representative of
the Namibian people. SWAPO also enjoys the support of the non-aligned community.”

Yet, Hamutenya noted that SWAPO has had difficulties with its struggle against colonialism. “This is mainly caused by the South
Africans and those Namibians who sided with the South Africans and helped them retain their stranglehold over Namibia.”

Hamutenya said that the United Nations has assumed a role of responsibility as liberator of Namibia. U.N. Resolution 385 of
1976 called for the withdrawal of South African troops immediately and unconditionally and for the release of all political prisoners,
the repatriation of all exiled Namibians, and the holding of fair elections. “At this time, the Carter administration decided that
the Western countries had the necessary means to exert pressure on South Africa and to force it to comply with
the U.N. resolution.”

Gifts-in-Kind ties companies with colleges

By AARON LEVINE

There is a “corporate” headquarters here at Davidson within a minute’s walking distance of the Davidson College campus. The Company/College
Gifts-in-Kind Clearing House, a non-profit organization founded in September, 1983, is designed to coordinate the donation of surplus or obsolete
equipment by businesses to the organization’s member colleges. If a college has no need for an item, then the clearing
house works to find a suitable buyer for it. The college can have the item traded or sold by the
clearing house.

Obtaining a piece of used and/or obsolete equipment is usually less expensive than purchasing the same item first-hand. Each college
pays a $1,000 membership fee and in return the school is awarded one dollar with which to purchase items. If
two schools desire the same item, then the school with the highestBid in points receives the item. If one of
the schools recently received many items through the clearing house, then the school with fewer recently expended points would obtain
the item. Since the main goal of the clearing house is to get rid of merchandise, it does not really
matter if a member school is in a deficit point situation. The system cannot interfere with the purpose. The clearing
house deals with almost any item a corporation casts off, from glassware and bird cages to a factory itself. Recently,
Guilford Mills donated a textile mill in Lowell, N.C. The clearing house sold the item for $600,000 payable over the
next five years. The money is being plowed back into the clearing house to keep rates down. Member colleges can
also donate and receive material from each other. Each school starts with $20,000 worth of credit which increases when the
school puts something into the system and decreases when it receives something. As founder and Executive Director Jim Herring states:
“Since they're getting all this free stuff, they’re supposed to put something back in. It's a self-regulating system.” Items that
Davidson has recently received include mirrors for the Drama department, glassware for lab work, furniture for the Union, and a
hot press. Typical recent corporate donors have been Martin-Marietta, with motor loaders and pick-up trucks, the Myrtle Beach Hilton with
furniture, and Land O' Frost Foods with food processing equipment. Herring, a Harvard M.B.A., said, “After two years of negotiations
they came out with a plan agreed upon by both South Africa and Namibia, which called for U.N. troops to
remain as a token force in Namibia and for the formation of a demilitarized zone between Angola and Namibia.” Hamutenya
said the plan was accepted and presented to the U.N. Security Council and adopted in 1978 as Resolution 435. “All
that was needed was the signing of a ceasefire by South Africa and SWAPO,” she said. She noted: “That did
not happen, because it appeared later on that those who assigned for us the role of liberator simply wanted to
buy more time for South Africa to carry on its illegal role in Namibia and further deepen the crisis.” At
present, the resolution is still outstanding. Today, Hamutenya said, Namibia is still struggling for its independence, while South Africa continues
to oppress the citizens of Namibia. “On June 17, the South African government established an interim government in Namibia,” she
said. “Upon the formation of that, assassin guards unleashed their violence upon a crowd of innocent civilians. Many were hospitalized,
but nobody died. They beat many of them so much that they broke their arms and legs. People saw this
on television in Western Europe, but the U.S. media has not reported it.” Herring, a former manager of Credit Cards
and director for New Ventures with Atlantic Richfield, plans to expand, especially to the West Coast in an attempt to
become nationwide. Despite the big plans, the purpose remains the same. Herring states, “Our purpose is not to raise money,
but to turn useless business goods into useful college equipment.” Cornell University has a place for you this summer. Wonderful
courses, great professors, magnificent environment, people from everywhere, lots of good things happening. Come enjoy it all. Send me Cornell
Summer Session and special programs. CORNELL UNIVERSITY, BOX 96, B12 IVES, ITHACA, NY 14854.
