10 Wednesday, December 10, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Hussey discusses upcoming season

By MIKE ADAMS

Sixth-year basketball coach Bobby Hussey enters the 1986-87 season on a strong note. Last year's squad won the Southern Conference
Tournament and made Davidson's first appearance in the NCAA since 1970, winning 20 games along the way. In an interview
with Davidsonian sports editor Mike Adams, Hussey talks about the upcoming season.

Davidsonian: Who are the tough teams in the Southern Conference?

Hussey: In the pre-season pick by the coaches and athletic directors, Marshall's been picked number one and UTC two. Western
Carolina was picked third and Davidson was picked fourth. I think that, however, in this particular situation, that’s just people’s
opinions because there are so many teams in the conference that have so many returning players. For example, Western Carolina
has everybody back and they have very good talent and good size. The Citadel has everybody back. I think it’s
really going to be a dog fight in the conference. I could envision the conference winner losing maybe four to
five conference games and still finishing in first place.

D: What about your non-conference schedule, how tough is that?

Hussey: It’s very tough. When you have a Duke and a Wake Forest and a South Carolina, that in itself
says an awful lot because those teams are traditionally very good. UNCC is always a big battle. We go to
Princeton and to Bowling Green. Princeton is picked to win the Ivy League. We also have Holy Cross in Charlotte.
Overall, I think our schedule this year is probably a little tougher than last year.

D: What are the strengths of this year’s team?

Hussey: Well, we would think that our strengths would be experience in four positions: the positions of Derek Rucker, Chris
Heineman, Anthony Tanner, and Jeff Himes. Another strength is knowing how to win. That’s something that is awfully hard to
bring into a program that has not been a winner. This team learned how to win last year and I
think that’s extremely important. Hopefully, that’s going to carry into this season.

D: What about weaknesses?

Hussey: We don’t have the experience in big-men positions. In our post positions, we're a totally inexperienced team. We have
a junior in Mike Gynn and a sophomore in Bill Sellers, but neither has really accumulated minutes playing. And from
there we go to the freshmen.

D: What kind of offensive schemes will you use this year?

Hussey: We’ll probably use pretty much the same offensive philosophy that we've always used and that starts with being a
team. The strength of our program really should be the team itself. Our style of play will be to take
fast break opportunities and we’ll try to make intelligent decisions with these and get it up-tempo if it’s there. If
it’s not there, we'll play our usual half-court motion game.

D: Do you think this year’s team will use the transition game more than last year’s squad?

Hussey: It’s possible that we could. At this point in time, we’ve done a good job with that, but we’ve
appeared to lack offensive patience. Actually, we play a little better when we get it up-tempo, but there’s a real
fine line between getting up-tempo and getting out of control.

D: Are you going to play predominantly man-to-man or zone defense?

Hussey: Actually, we played more man-to-man defense than zone last year. We were a better team in our man-to-man and
we surprised a lot of people because we were the aggressor on defense. We’ll do even more of that this
year.

D: What kind of defenses will other teams play against the Cats?

Hussey: I think we may mainly see a lot of zone because of our offense. We have a lot of
continuity in our offense and it’s pretty hard to guard sometimes.

D: What will Derek Rucker’s role be on this team?

Hussey: Exactly as always: to be a point guard, to be able to direct our offense. Derek is a unique
point guard in that he’s not just a ball handler who passes the ball off to other people and then
stands around and doesn’t do anything offensively. He can get you points or he can play without getting you points
and it doesn’t bother his psyche. He’s going to be the same whether he gets you 20, or he gets
none.you 10 or he gets you 15. He may be more of a penetrating guard than the perimeter jump shooter
he’s been in the past. Derek’s body is bigger and he’s more durable and he’s learned to play a little
more physical game. His defense is considerably better than when he came to Davidson.

D: What is Chris Heineman’s role?

Hussey: His role will be the same as always, to be a tough defender. He will usually guard the best
offensive player on the perimeter. He will also play point guard when teams try to take Derek out of the
game. He will be expected to give us a little more offense than he did last year. He’s a good
shooter and he’s the aggressor who gets everybody going sometimes.

D: What is Jeff Himes’ role?

Hussey: Jeff is Jeff. He’s bigger. He’s a little stronger and he’s quicker and he plays within himself about as
well as any guy we've ever seen. He does things that he can do; things he can’t do he doesn’t
try to. Probably the major difference in our expectations for Jeff this year will be more rebounding simply because, as
a team, we lost a lot of rebounds. He’s going to have to play defense inside versus playing on the
perimeter where he played last year and we’re also going to look to him for more offense on the inside.

D: What role will Ace Tanner play?

Hussey: Anthony will be a catalyst. We’re going to expect more rebounding out of him than he’s given us in
the past. He’s working hard to improve his overall defense. We’re trying to get Ace a little more offense inside
simply because he has such good leaping ability and he can really create a lot of mismatches with people playing
his position. He’ll always please the crowd.

D: What about the centers, Mike Gynn and Bill Sellers?

Hussey: The center position is an untested area and it’s one we’re still experimenting with. If they just play defense
and get rebounds and score some when it’s given to them, then they’ve done what we need from them. Mike
is a player who is very team-oriented. He knows the offense well and he knows the defense well. He’s strong
inside. His rebounding must improve. He’s a guy who has the tendency to make players around him better.

By BETH DRUMMOND

Jay Schmitt

Schmitt comes to Davidson from Montgomery Bell High School in Nashville, Tenn. where he was first team All-District and Regional
All-Tournament his senior year. He averaged 21 points and 12 rebounds per game his senior year. At 6-8, 220 pounds,
Schmitt offers exciting potential for this year’s team. So far he has practiced at forward. As coach Bobby Hussey commented,
“Jay has a fine understanding of the game. He is a very dedicated player and extremely physical on the court;
with continued development, he should be an outstanding player at Davidson.” Schmitt feels his game has improved considerably this year;
with plans to major in engineering, he will definitely be an asset both academically and athletically.

Edward “Magic” Gaines

After leading the Rikard High School team in nearly every category his senior season, this 6-4, 198-pound Florida native lives
up to his nickname “Magic.” Both a quick mover and a sound perimeter player, Gaines has an impressive list of
high school accomplishments including: academic All-American, All-State, All Big-Bend, team MVP and a first team member in the Governor’s Cup
Christian Tournament. An extremely versatile player, Gaines plays both shooting guard and small forward. His 34-inch vertical jump is an
example of his natural talent as well. Of his time spent playing for the Wildcats, Gaines said that “this has
been a learning year.” He feels he has picked up a great deal about the fundamentals of the game and
how it is played. “You can be sure,” he said, “there are great things to come!”

Alan Hunter

Hunter is a 5-10, 170-pound point guard expected to spend this season as a back-up to Derek Rucker. In his
senior season at Walker High School in Houston, Texas, Hunter had his team in a 23-6 season before being named
All-Region, first team All-District and MVP in District 4A. In his senior season, he scored 22 points and had five
assists per game.
