6

Liner Notes

Friday, April 11, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Shorter shows enhanced maturity

By JEFFREY BROWN
Wayne Shorter: Adam’s Apple
BLUE NOTE 84232

Wayne Shorter stands as a pivotal figure in the history of contemporary American music. His work with trumpeter Miles Davis
during the 1960s led to the birth of jazz fusion, a controversial attempt to broaden the scope of mainstream jazz
through the introduction of electrical instruments and rock rhythms. The Davis/Shorter collaboration produced the famous (or infamous if you prefer)
Bitches Brew in the late 60s. This work set the stage for the entire jazz fusion movement.

Shorter, along with keyboardist Joe Zawinul, co-founded Weather Report in the early seventies, at its time the premier voice of
fusion jazz. One should not, however, blame Shorter for the proliferation of mediocre fusion that tainted the jazz market during
the 1970s. Shorter has remained a consummate, engaging jazz artist since his early work with Art Blakey’s Jazz Messengers, and
never more convincingly than on his solo releases for the Blue Note label. One of the more notable of these
releases is the 1964 Adam’s Apple.

Recently re-issued by the re-organized Blue Note label, Adam’s Apple displays all of the qualities for which Shorter is justly
famous: leanness of playing and an inspired compositional sensibility.

“Adam’s Apple,” the title selection, bobs and weaves lightheartedly, recalling the honky-tonk nature of the most identifiable blues melodies. Shorter’s
tenor solo darts and jabs playfully, revealing an understated sense of humor.

“502 Blues (Drinkin’ and Drivin’)” is the only song on the album not composed by Shorter. The piece opens with
the lyrical, flowing lines of pianist Herbie Hancock, followed by Shorter’s moody, haunting expression of the melody. Composer Jimmy Rowles
has created the perfect vehicle for Shorter’s unique improvisational ability.

“El Gaucho,” a wonderful Shorter original, makes extensive use of the dorian mode. “El Gaucho,” like so many Shorter compositions,
reveals the artist’s affinity for modal structures, a form in which he excels. The tune recalls a bossa nova, though
its unique chord progressions elevate the tune above the tried and proven bossa nova formula.

Side two opens with “Footprints,” a stunning display of elegant simplicity, and one of Shorter’s most popular modal efforts. Reggie
Workman’s clean, crisp bass line adds to the lean yet haunted feel of the work. Shorter’s fascination with moody, dark
themes was to continue, reaching a plateau on his Night Dreamer album, and the now classic Speak No Evil.

“Teru,” an interesting if not outstanding ballad, displays Shorter’s ability to create rich tonal textures through the use of lush,
dense chromaticism. The song fails, however, to move or inspire the listener in the profound way that most of Shorter’s
ballads do.

The album ends with “Chief Crazy Horse,” a driving, energetic piece that finds drummer Joe Chambers at the top of
his form. Shorter and Chambers seem to echo one another, each feeding off of the other’s intensity. The song reaches
its climax in a fury of saxophone runs and pulsating drum beats, creating a vivid sense of perpetual motion.

Adam’s Apple represents an indispensable addition to any Shorter collection. One can find in the work an enhanced maturity on
the artist’s part, both compositionally and instrumentally.

---

Hallmark

When you're out of Schulz, you’re out of cheer — so grab a handful of fresh “Peanuts” cards and keep
the smiles coming. Don’t wait for a special occasion. Break out the “Peanuts” anytime someone craves their lightly seasoned humor.

The Village Store
Main St., Davidson, N.C.

---

SPERM DONORS needed

$25 per acceptable donation.

Call Fertility Laboratory, Charlotte Memorial Hospital and Medical Center, 338-3227. (EO/AA)

---

Summer

WASHINGTON OR LONDON INTERNSHIPS

OXFORD “8e”

Full Academic Years In
- Oxford University
- St. Andrews, Scotland

U.S. credits will be transferred through Hampden-Sydney College, founded in Virginia by James Madison in 1776. Graduate work is an
option. The Director of Studies for the Center for Quality Education Abroad (in Britain) is the Rt. Hon. The Lord
Beloff, D.Litt. (Oxon.), Fellow of the British Academy, Professor Emeritus of Government and Fellow of All Souls, Oxford.

INQUIRIES TO:
JANET KOLLEK, J.D., Admissions Director CQEA/WISC, Rm 8, 158 W. 81 St., NY, NY, 10024, (212-724-0804/724-0136).

---

First Union National Bank
Downtown Davidson
Huntersville
Cornelius
Main St. Davidson
I-77 at Hwy 73

---

UNITED CAROLINA BANK
Lake Norman
892-7805
