Hockey, cross country finish, p. Volume LXXVI, Number 9 Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036 Friday, November 7, 1986

Governor Martin receives honorary Davidson degree
By TED WILSON

Members of the Class of 1987 donned their caps and gowns for the first time last Saturday at Fall Convocation, which honored North Carolina’s Governor James Martin, the senior class, and several award-winning students. President John Kuykendall introduced the speaker, Governor Martin, a 1957 graduate of Davidson and former chemistry professor at the school. Martin covered a variety of topics in his speech to the Love Auditorium audience. On the subject of education, Martin said, “We have several challenges facing the state. One of them is how to rebuild the teaching profession in our schools — how we get young people like you to consider that profession... What would you say if we could start you out at $18,000 a year and increase it to $40,000 if you’re good?”

Governor Jim Martin ‘57 speaks during fall convocation

College should benefit from tax-exempt bonds
By NELLE McCORKLE

Davidson and other North Carolina private colleges can now issue tax-exempt bonds, following passage of a state constitutional amendment Tuesday. The amendment permits nonprofit private colleges and universities to finance construction and renovation through the sale of tax-exempt bonds; North Carolina public colleges and private hospitals already can issue such bonds. Direct benefits to Davidson from the amendment’s passage include the possibility of financing proposed facilities improvements through the sale of tax-exempt bonds. Comptroller Robert Davidson said, “It (the amendment) gives us another option for financing capital funds projects — bricks and mortar. Basically it’s for buildings, expansion of plant facilities. We would not borrow to set up endowments.” Specific projects Davidson may fund by the sale of tax-exempt bonds include the erection of a new sports complex and expansion of existing arts facilities, Davidson said. Vice President for Business and Finance Robert S. Sutton said, “We will evaluate this (opportunity to issue tax-free bonds) as to its advisability for Davidson in connection with the construction of the new sports complex, in connection with any major dormitory renovation, or similar projects.” Sutton also cited possible gymnasium renovation. When proposed in 1982, the amendment did not pass in North Carolina. “It was probably defeated in a backlash against anything that smacked of bond issues,” Director of Development Julius Melton said. North Carolina now provides the same opportunity for private colleges to sell tax-exempt bonds already available in approximately 20 states, including South Carolina and Virginia. Statewide, over 25,000 in-state and 25,000 out-of-state students attend private colleges. Administrators spoke of the flexibility the new amendment provides. “We're very excited about it,” Davidson said. “We may or may not use it, but it gives us an alternative when planning for expansion as far as physical facilities go.” Melton said, “It might not mean anything for Davidson in a

Features: Mr. Christmas answers your letters in his first column of the season! Page 5

Sports: Soccer beats The Citadel 3-2

Opinions: Sayres Rudy writes from the Middle East that he’s fine, but things there aren’t. Page 7

Martin cited the drug problem as one of our most...urgent concerns. “What do we do about drug enforcement and drug education? I’m not considering mandatory urine testing, but we do have a problem,” he said. “It’s not going to go away. We need to develop programs to identify people with problems — not to remove them from society but to help them,” Martin said. “I believe American colleges need to take the lead in helping with this problem.” He then challenged Davidson to tackle this problem and be the forerunner in finding its solution. He said, “I hope Davidson College will take that lead, find those answers, share them with society... If you do that, you will be heroes.”

Martin also stated his support for a bill that would grant the governor of North Carolina the right to veto, a privilege all other governors of this country possess. As for being governor instead of a member of the House of Representatives, Martin said, “It’s not being chief executive of our state.” Following Martin’s address, Kuykendall conferred him with the honorary degree, Doctor of Laws. Kuykendall said, “Because you bear the power of office with conscience and serious purpose and unaffected good humor; because you excel in realms as diverse as science, music, and politics; and because, after twenty years in public office, you can be accused of still having ‘a tendency to be the college professor,’ ... Because, above all, you would agree with Hegel that ‘we should desire to have in the state nothing except what is an expression of rationality,’ Davidson greets you as true gubernator — helmsman, with a helmsman’s gifts of foresight and judgment and courage, and names you, James Grubbs Martin, Doctor of Laws.”

The final section of Convocation consisted of the presentation of several student awards. The recipients of this year’s Goodwin-Exxon Awards, which go annually to a sophomore, a junior, and a senior “adjudged to exemplify the highest standards of character, good sportsmanship, and consideration of others,” are sophomore...

Sutton said, “I’ve had experience with numerous bond issues, both for our corporate and for our hospital clients. I know my hospital clients back in Norfolk found it very beneficial to obtain interest at the lowest rate possible, the result being that it tended to keep room rates and hospital charges down.” The college encouraged the amendment’s passage by participation in the North Carolina Association of Independent Colleges and Universities campaign. Also, Sutton attended a Central Piedmont Colleges press conference on the topic last week; Vice President for Institutional Advancement John Griffith appeared in a local television interview. Private college tax-exempt bonds must be approved by the state Higher Education Facilities Finance Agency and by the Local Government Commission. “I think this requirement will ensure that we have good quality, credit-worthy debt being issued and also that the bonds being issued won’t interfere with tax-exempt financing being offered by local governments,” Sutton said. Although these tax-exempt bonds finance construction, funds they generate may not be used to erect churches or other buildings used for religious purposes.

With this issue: We cease publication for fall term, 1986. We will resume publishing at the beginning of winter term.