— The Davidsonian
Friday, September 26, 1986

A call for the abolition of fraternities
Steve Soud

Editors’ note: This is a reprint of an article that appeared in The Davidsonian last spring.

It is inevitable that institutions resort to compromise to appease their constituents. It is lamentable, however, that an institution of higher learning such as Davidson should so easily sacrifice its lofty goals, ideals, and values for the sake of political compromise. Thus it was with regret that I read two weeks ago the proposal that a system of social exclusion be allowed to return to Patterson Court. I hereby call for the abolition of fraternities at Davidson.

Now, it may seem odd that an Admissions Counselor, whose very job is to decide “exclusion,” should make this call. I therefore preface my remarks with the following points: admissions decisions are based on an objective study of four-year performance and are in the student's best interest, and that our job is to create a well-rounded community of 1400 students. I also submit that as someone beyond the fracas of Patterson Court social pressures, I have a clearer perspective of the role of fraternities and the College.

Davidson’s mission is twofold: to develop humane, liberally educated persons and to develop in them a value system consistent with the Christian tradition. Fraternities, by their nature and their practices, are incompatible with this mission. By nature, fraternities are coercive and squelch individualism. In order for fraternities to survive, they must set themselves up as crucial to the social fabric of the College. To the freshman, they infer, if not state outright, that “without us you will be an outcast with no life outside the library. We are your road to fun and college good times.” The average freshman, misled and unsure of himself, acquiesces to this subtle pressure. (Sometimes the pressure is not so subtle. I once asked a freshman — who is now a senior — if he intended to be an independent. He said, “Soud, I wish I had enough guts to be an independent.” Is this type of reaction in the best interests of the College?)

So that the freshman may be accepted by the brethren, he sacrifices a substantial portion of his individuality to ensure his acceptance. This subtle conformity robs not only the individual, but also the entire college community of the benefit of his full personality and therefore detracts from the overall quality of the liberal arts education. As the fraternities compete with each other to survive, they place increased pressure upon the potential pledge. The fraternity, in order to entice the “best” prospects, increases the number of parties and social events, thereby placing a greater burden upon the student to win acceptance. Forced to be at the bulk of these parties, the prospect forgoes developing friendships outside the fraternity, not to mention valuable time for personal and intellectual growth. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy, but all play and no work makes Jack immature.

A great testimony to the coercive and immoral power of the fraternity is the hazing/pledging process of road trips and games. In my six years here, Davidson fraternity pledges have...

The most immoral, unjust aspect of the fraternity system, however, is its exclusivism. How can Davidson, founded upon a system of Christian ethics, tolerate a bid system fraught with elitism and rejection? (John Kuykendall, in his inaugural address, stated that he recoils at the thought of elitism at Davidson.) How can Davidson allow the least of its children to be stigmatized with fraternity rejection? Are they to be declared pariahs at whim? Are we to dismiss such fundamental Christian dictums as “thy brother’s keeper” and “love thy neighbor as thyself” so readily? No! I say, “Judge not lest ye be judged!” The basic premises of an exclusive fraternity bid system seem diametrically opposed to the principles and purpose of the College. It seems to me that the job of the Christian is to break down the barriers created by human society, and that the job of the liberal arts education is to create the freest individual possible. Fraternities force us to see each other as SAEs or KAs or Fijis, and not as fellow human beings. Thus, barriers are thrust up and growth limited in ways inconsistent with the liberal arts ideal.

I recently asked a freshman who values his individuality if he were not losing it by pledging a fraternity. “No,” he said. “I'm giving it to the guys in the house.” He misunderstands the point of his admission to Davidson. He was asked here to give that individuality to the College community, not to a select few. The fraternity system, by its very nature, is divisive and exclusive, and therefore incompatible with the goals of Davidson College.

Fallacy no. 1: Fraternities are necessary for alumni support. This is not true. Alumni support is based on the quality of the education and the overall experience at Davidson, not on fraternity membership.

Fallacy no. 2: Fraternities are necessary for social life. This is also not true. The College Union, the women’s and coed eating houses, and other organizations provide ample social opportunities.

Fallacy no. 3: Fraternities are necessary for service projects. This is not true either. The College Union is an equally viable outlet for service projects, more outlets can be formed, and individuals can organize bike-a-thons, canoe trips, etc. on their own equally well.

Fallacy no. 4: We'd have no social life without fraternities. This was true until about twelve years ago. But now Davidson is coed, the College Union is strong and getting stronger, and there's an interstate to Charlotte. Also, give yourselves credit for being creative and spontaneous partiers. Moreover, the women’s and coed eating houses have fine parties, and events such as the Solidarity Celebration show that we can have at least a modicum of fun without beer. Self-Selection eating houses have the potential to do anything as well or better than the fraternities without the ill side-effects of exclusivism. It all depends on how much energy you put into it.

All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy, but all play and no work makes Jack immature.

I do not mean to say that fraternities are fraught with evil or entirely inappropriate. At large universities, fraternities offer...a small-group social outlet amidst the teeming individuality which we all prize in him not to sixty people, but masses. I do mean to say, however, that at Davidson it is to 1400. Ultimately the fraternity, by its very nature, thwarts individual expression and erects barriers. Now it is inevitable that several arguments will be raised in favor of the fraternity system. I rebut several of the most popular fallacies.

Fallacy no. 1: Rejection is a fact of the real world; fraternities therefore prepare one for life. Davidson College is not trying to create a real-world atmosphere. Rather, it endeavors to create an atmosphere ideal for learning and free from real-world problems. Witness the Honor Code. The Honor Code is hardly “real world.” Who says rejection (or acceptance, for that matter) really prepares one for rejection in later life anyway?

I recently asked a freshman who values his individuality if he were not losing it by pledging a fraternity. “No,” he said, “I’m giving it to the guys in the house.” He misunderstands the point of his admission to Davidson.

Fallacy no. 2: Cliques are going to form anyway, so what's the difference? Indeed, cliques are going to form. But what reason is this for formalizing and “putting the College seal of approval” on them? By inference, the College approves the rejection of individuals based on nebulous “personal qualities” (perhaps one blackball) and also approves the accompanying stigma.

Fallacy no. 3: Fraternities are not coercive. Wrong. All groups are coercive to some extent. (Read Reinhold Niebuhr’s Moral Man and Immoral Society if you don't believe me.) But fraternities are vastly more coercive than non-exclusive clubs because of the fraternities’ national affiliations and overly strong self-identity. Poll a group of freshmen and if they’re candid most will tell you of the pressure, overt and covert, they've felt during the pledge and rush process.

Fallacy no. 4: Fraternities are the source of camaraderie. Fraternities may be a source of camaraderie, but is it a healthy type? Ask many senior fraternity members how they feel about “the house” and you will find that their interest has waned by the senior year. Many complain of missed friendships and social opportunities forfeited to fraternity membership. And the folks in women’s and coed eating houses seem to get enough camaraderie to get them through the year.

Fallacy no. 5: But fraternities do such wonderful service projects! Good point. But the Y-Student Service Corps is stupid to subdivide our already-small student body along lines so rigid as those of fraternities. To do so is detrimental to the social and overall well-being of the College.

This is not the first time this issue has been raised at Davidson. In 1960-61 there was debate over the role of fraternities at Davidson. In 1964-65 a Fraternity Evaluation Committee (commissioned by the administration) recommended the abolition of fraternities. (Then Inter-Fraternity Council chairman Rick von Unwerth even resigned under the weight of the evidence for abolition, calling the fraternity system a “tyranny over the social structure of Davidson College.”) Finally, in 1970-71, President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. declared a system of complete self-selection. Clearly a system of total self-selection is the most compatible and consistent with Davidson's educational mission. That was decided in 1970. Fraternities have had fifteen years to prove that they can abide by a system of self-selection whereby no persons are rejected or denied access to social membership. Unfortunately, fraternities have shown little or no inclination to comply with this; it is against their nature.

I realize that the popular opinion is that “since bids are going on anyway we might as well legalize them.” By the same reasoning, since murders are going on anyway we might as well legalize them. In other words, why should we sacrifice a fully realizable ideal to lax governance of self-selection? Davidson is an institution which purports itself to be of the finest quality and dedicated to the highest moral ideals. The kind of sorry, apathetic compromise proposed for Patterson Court has no place in a community with Davidson's stated goals and values. Self-selection eating houses have the potential to do anything as well or better than the fraternities without the ill side-effects of exclusion.

In closing, I quote the March 26, 1965 editorial which marked The Davidsonian’s turning point on the fraternity issue: “To the men [and women] involved in this vital decision, the question is one of commitment: commitment to the educational aspirations of the college, commitment to the unrestricted growth of the mind. If we must face the music, then let us examine the composition and not the orchestra. If we admit that a problem exists, we cannot then dismiss the problem on the grounds of political expediency. A compromise would indeed be expedient. But aside from satisfying no one, a quasi-progressive solution will again relegate Davidson to the rear ranks of educational followership.”

Soud is a member of the Class of '84.