Friday, May 9, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

Leaders meet for economic summit
By DAVID WILLIAMS

Headlining the events of May 2-8:

Internationally — President Reagan, along with the leaders of Japan, Great Britain, West Germany, France, Italy, and Canada met last
week in Tokyo to engage in an economic summit. The heads of state agreed to “make maximum efforts” against terrorism
and singled out Libya as the prime offender. The leaders also agreed to work toward closer coordination of economic policies
to assure that their currencies are fairly valued. Reagan headed home on Wednesday and called the summit the “triumph of
Tokyo” that will lead to concerted action against terrorism.

Soviet television broadcast its first film footage of the Chernobyl nuclear accident site Sunday, showing one reactor building damaged but
surrounding structures unaffected. Soviet officials blamed local experts for misjudging the severity of the nuclear accident and reported that mass
evacuations did not occur until 36 hours after the incident. The Soviet government reported that radiation levels outside the Chernobyl
disaster area were “somewhat higher” than normal, but had substantially decreased since the disaster occurred last month. U.S. experts said
the Soviet Union faces a massive, expensive cleanup of the accident and might have to declare some areas off-limits indefinitely.

Soviet commanders moved hundreds of military forces into Kabul, Afghanistan and encircled the city while disarming Afghan army units before
Afghan leader Babrak Karmal was replaced by Najibullah as the general secretary of Afghanistan’s Communist party.

Former U.N. Secretary-General Kurt Waldheim won the most votes in the Austrian presidential election but fell just short of a
majority. He will face a runoff election in June.

The U.S. Senate voted 73-22 against President Reagan’s proposed $354 million arms sale to Saudi Arabia. The House went along
with the Senate, voting 356-62 to kill the sale. Lawmakers said they voted against the sale to show support for
Israel.

Israeli Defense Minister Yitzhak Rabin said that Syrian security and intelligence officials were responsible for last month’s unsuccessful attempt to
smuggle a bomb aboard an Israeli airliner in London. A Jordanian arrested in connection with the bombing of the West
Berlin discotheque last month confessed to another terrorist bombing in the city on March 29 and said the Syrian embassy
in East Berlin had organized the attacks. Meanwhile, Abul Abbas, who undertook the hijacking of the Achille Lauro last October,
said that his group will begin launching terrorist attacks within the United States.

To heighten economic pressure against Qaddafi, the Reagan administration has set a June 30 deadline for U.S. oil companies to
leave Libya. Special exemptions granted to several companies in Libya will not be renewed after that date.

Iraqi warplanes bombed an oil refinery near Tehran, Iran, and Iran claimed that Iraq also bombed civilian areas of three
northwestern Iranian towns.

Secretary of State George Schultz met with opposition leaders in South Korea and urged them to turn away from violent
confrontation with the military regime of President Chun Doo Hwan. An attorney for ousted Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos said Marcos
would return home immediately if the Philippine government restored his passport. Riot troops in Manila had to chase nearly 3,000
supporters of Marcos across Manila’s busiest park and onto a main street before they dispersed them with a water hose.

About 1.5 million black South African workers stayed away from their jobs last Thursday, marking the largest demonstration yet of
their power to cripple the country’s economy. Business spokesmen said the strike was 70 to 100 percent effective in most
urban areas.

Finally, four Arctic adventurers completed a 56-day, 500-mile dogsled trek to the North Pole, following in the footsteps of Robert
Peary, who made the same trek in 1909. They returned to the U.S. and were given a hero’s welcome in
St. Paul, Minn.

Nationally — In a third setback to NASA’s space program, an unmanned Delta rocket carrying an important weather satellite exploded
71 seconds into the launch. NASA named an eight-member panel to find out why the rocket had blown up. The
payload of the satellite was worth $57 million. NASA officials acknowledged the nation’s ability to put satellites into space is
crippled, at least for the near future. Figures released Wednesday show that NASA has reduced the number of people who
monitor the quality of work and equipment by 70 percent over the last 15 years.

The Senate Finance Committee approved a tax-code revision that would tax income at only the two rates of 15 percent
and 27 percent but would take away several widely-used deductions. Senate leaders promised swift action on the bill, which drew
support ranging from liberal Sen. Edward Kennedy to conservative Sen. Jack Kemp.

The Senate also passed and sent to the president Tuesday a bill easing gun control restrictions for owners and dealers
of firearms, marking a legislative victory for the National Rifle Association.

Energy DepartmentOfficials testified that they considered it “virtually impossible” for a graphite fire to occur in the U.S. reactor that
is most like the Soviet Union’s crippled Chernobyl nuclear reactor. According to a Nuclear Regulatory Commission spokesman, the U.S. nuclear
industry last year scored the worst safety record since the Three Mile Island accident of 1979. CIA Director William Casey
said that the Reagan administration is considering criminal prosecution of three newspapers and two magazines for publishing information about U.S.
intelligence-gathering operations. The Supreme Court ruled that people unalterably opposed to the death penalty can be barred from juries that
decide guilt or innocence in capital cases. A giant earthquake shook the Aleutian islands off Alaska Wednesday, producing waves that
struck the island chain and prompting officials along the West Coast and Hawaii to urge evacuations. A new study of
cancer mortality rates showed that the odds of dying from the disease have increased in the past three decades. Finally,
Alan Shepard on Monday joined other Mercury astronauts to celebrate the 25th anniversary of his 15-minute suborbital flight through space
on May 5, 1961.

Visiting Philosopher Speaks on Artificial Intelligence
By Heidi Hooker

Dr. John Haugeland from the Philosophy Department of the University of Pittsburgh spoke last Tuesday night in the Morrison Room
on “Artificial Intelligence and the Western Mind.” His presentation was based on a book he wrote concerning the topic of
artificially or scientifically created intelligence titled "Artificial Intelligence: The Very Idea." Haugeland asserted that the study of artificial intelligence is
significant in providing a new means of studying the individual’s mind and the basis of one’s intelligence. He investigated how
much intelligence simply involves the manipulation of meaningful symbols according to rational rules and thus how much the mind is
like a complex computer.

Haugeland introduced the study of artificial intelligence by discussing the theories of Hobbes, the “grandfather of artificial intelligence.” Hobbes compared
rationalization to a computation process or a symbolic operation involving thought particles. The basic question which Hobbes’ study evokes is
how thought particles can mean anything, Haugeland asked, if the meaning of words depends on one's thoughts, from what do
thoughts derive?

The first basic question Haugeland dealt with concerning the derivation of intelligence was what he named the “mystery of original
meaning.” He explored this question of where meaning originates in the mind, acknowledging that not all meanings can be derivative
of other meanings. Haugeland asserted that one cannot just describe thoughts as internal words or speech. Whereas words are derivative
of thought, thoughts themselves must have original meaning.

Haugeland explained two types of thoughts. The most basic is a primitive sort of meaning in which thoughts are derived
from one's sensory state and thus from what first caused them. On the other hand, there are “nonperceptual thoughts” which
must be derived from some cause within the mind. In examining the mental processes of intelligence, Haugeland highlighted some mathematical
discoveries relevant to the study of the mind, emphasizing Descartes’ role, as the father of modern mathematics, in actually “inventing
the mind.” The translation of notation to thought in modern math creates, according to Haugeland, the foundation of the “representational
theory of mind.” Descartes' analytic geometry in itself created a “systematic translation that preserves original relationships,” comparable to the complex
internal processes of thought.

The second basic question Haugeland discussed was the “paradox of mechanical reason,” which Haugeland asserts is the foundation of artificial
intelligence. This paradox states that if a thought process is mechanical, it is not rational. If it is rational, it
cannot be mechanical. Haugeland believes that the theory of thought manipulation as simply a mechanical process presupposes the existence of
a manipulator, the hypothetical “homunculus.” This “homunculus” refers to a section of the brain which manipulates meaningful symbols.

Haugeland discussed how the mechanical process of thought can be compared to types of games, especially formal or digital games,
in which tokens are manipulated according to rules and goals. In the context of formal games, Haugeland explained that computer
states could be related to mental states. Haugeland continues to investigate how certain interpretations get attached to certain situations, in
relation to the mystery of original meaning. If tokens or thought particles of formal systems get their meaning from the
interpreter, their meanings must “depend on the outside.” Tokens in computers or books are semantically inert since the tokens do
not mean anything to the computer or book but are only meaningful to their interpreter. Tokens in the mind, in
contrast, are semantically active and interact in ways to create meaning. The system in the mind seems to understand its
own semantics while the system in a computer or book does not.

Haugeland concluded his talk claiming that “artificial intelligence is the most exciting mistake since transcendental idealism.”

M&M SODA SHOP
Serving Davidson Since 1951
Good Luck GRADUATES!
102 S. Main St.
Davidson, NC.
