Sports Wildcats enter tournament in second place

By BOYD COGGINS

Last Saturday, Davidson locked up second place in the southern division of the Southern Conference by defeating Western Carolina 10-0
in the first game of a doubleheader played in Cullowhee. The Cats begin conference tournament play at Western Carolina Friday
at 11 a.m. against Appalachian State, who finished in first place in the northern division. Davidson finished with a 10-8
record in the conference and currently has a 21-12-1 record overall.

Last week's play began with a road trip to Clemson where the Cats fell to the Tigers by the score
of 14-7. Davidson played hard as they smashed out three homers and a double off of a very tough Clemson
pitcher, Charles Lowery. The Cats scored first in the third inning when senior Tim Waters, who had walked, scored ahead
of junior Dave Depaul’s sixth homer of the year. However, this lead did not last long because in the bottom
of the third inning Clemson scored four runs on four hits to take a 4-2 lead. The Tigers increased their
lead in the fourth inning to 10-2, as they ran off six more runs on five hits. The Cats made
a run at the Tigers as they scored five runs in the last two innings. In the eighth, they got
three runs on the eighth home run of the season by junior David Turgeon, which brought home junior Mark Thompson
and sophomore Alan Lewis. In the ninth inning, Davidson scored two more runs as junior Ollie Wagner crushed his first
homer of the season, a solo shot, over the left-field fence. Freshman George Halter scored the Cats’ last run when
he was brought home on a single by Thompson. The loss evened the Cats’ season record against Atlantic Coast Conference
teams at a respectable 2-2.

On Saturday, the Cats continued their road trip as they traveled to Cullowhee to tackle the Catamounts. Davidson, who had
already clinched a spot in the playoffs, needed three wins in order to claim first place in the southern division
and receive the home field advantage in the conference playoffs. In the first game Saturday afternoon, it looked as if
the Cats were going to pull off this feat as they crushed Western 10-0 behind the three-hit pitching of junior
Steve Condon, who ran his record to a perfect 9-0 on the season. With the victory, he now holds the
Davidson single-season record for most wins. Condon pitched seven superb innings as he picked up his seventh complete game of
the season while lowering his ERA to 1.70. The Cats opened their scoring in the top of the third inning
when sophomore Bill Masse doubled and was brought home when senior Keith Helfant singled. In the fifth inning, Davidson scored
five more runs on six hits. Depaul started the rally when he reached base after being hit by a pitch.
He was followed by four straight singles by Masse, Helfant, Lewis, and Turgeon, which brought home three runs. After one
out, junior Dan Simonds and Thompson ripped two more singles, which brought home Lewis and Turgeon to give the Cats
a 6-0 lead. The Cats finished their scoring in the top of the sixth inning when they scored four more
runs on four hits. The big hits in the inning were a two-run double by Lewis and a two-RBI single
by Simonds. Lewis led the Cats’ 13-hit attack by going three-for-three with three RBIs.

In the second game, the Cats looked well on their way to another victory as they jumped out to a
6-2 lead behind the ironman pitching of Condon, who also started the second game. Condon continued his masterful pitching as
he pitched the first three innings and allowed only two runs. The Cats scored three runs in the first inning
when Lewis hit a two-run homer, which brought home Helfant, who had singled. Weaver followed with a triple and scored
when Thompson singled. In the second inning, Depaul walked and went to third on a single by sophomore Roy Vilardi.
Masse then walked to load the bases. A double by Helfant down the right field line cleared the bases to
give Davidson a 6-0 lead. However, Western came back in the fifth inning to take the lead at 7-6 when
they scored five runs on two doubles, two walks.and a home run. The Cats tied the game at seven in
the fifth when Thompson, who had doubled, scored when Depaul smashed a double to centerfield. The game remained tied until
the bottom of the seventh when Mike Carron scored on a bad hop single through the infield, giving the Catamounts
an 8-7 victory and first place in the southern division. In the third game on Sunday, the Cats again jumped
out to a big lead only to see Western come back and score two runs in the fourth and three
more in the fifth on their way to an 8-5 victory. Davidson scored three runs in the second inning when
Depaul hit a three-run homer which brought home Weaver and Thompson. The Cats upped their lead to 4-0 in the
third inning when Helfant scored on a single by Weaver. With Western up 5-4 in the top of the seventh,
the Cats tied the game when Turgeon doubled and scored on a hit by Simonds. But the Catamounts came back
in the bottom of the inning with a run on three singles. They collected insurance runs in the eighth to
go away with the victory. Leading hitters for the Cats in the game were Weaver and Depaul, who each had
two hits. This weekend the Cats can obtain their first-ever NCAA tournament bid for baseball if they can win the
double-elimination Southern Conference tournament. If Davidson defeats Appalachian State on Friday, they will play the winner of the WCU-East Tennessee
State game Saturday at noon. However, should they lose their first game, they will play the loser of the second
game at 9 a.m. on Saturday. If they win at nine, they will play again Saturday afternoon. Should Davidson win
on Saturday, then they would play for the championship on Sunday at noon. The Cats’ hitting, which is second in
the conference, will provide the scoring punch. It will be up to the pitching to hold opponents at bay. Pitching
is crucial because in order to win the crown, the Cats have to win at least three games in three
days. If they lose in the first round, they could end up playing as many as five games. Davidson needs
strong pitching from their whole staff in order to be victorious in the tournament.

By EDWIN PAGE

The Davidson men’s golf team completed its season Tuesday with the final round of the Southern Conference tournament at the
par 70 Raintree Country Club course in Charlotte. Although the Cats finished well out of the running, there were some
bright spots. Freshman number one player Craig Carlock showed his potential when he fired a blistering two-over-par 72 in the
second round of the 54-hole event. His 241 total was the best for Davidson in the tournament. Davidson finished seventh
out of the eight-team SC, and while that may seem somewhat disappointing, it is one place and 31 strokes better
than last year’s team. This tournament wrapped up the spring season for the team. The Cats began the season with
two tournaments over spring break, one of them played at prestigious Augusta National. This quarter, they played tournaments in Burlington
and at Belmont Abbey in addition to matches against West Virginia Tech, in which they were victorious, and Winthrop. The
Cats' best finish in a tournament came at Belmont Abbey where they placed fifth out of nine teams. Tim Tallent,
who coached the Davidson golf team from 1974-78, returned this season to take the reins again, and in spite of
the tough season the team faced this year, he believes that there is hope for improvement. This year’s team of
Carlock, junior Tom Davis, junior Tyler Long, sophomore Allen Smith, junior Steve Bradley, and freshman Taylor Mayo was a very
inexperienced one. Of the six, only Davis and Long had played golf on the college level before. Given another year
of experience and some new recruits, Tallent is optimistic about next year. “I think you'll see a great improvement,” Tallent
said. “I spent a lot of time recruiting this year trying to upgrade our golf program. It’s a gradual process,
but I think that golf is a sport that Davidson can compete in.”

Senior discus and shot thrower Lou Krempel leads the Davidson track and field teams into this weekend’s Southern Conference Championships
at Marshall.
