Professor Named Martin Science Advisor

Governor James Martin has appointed a Davidson College professor to be his science advisor. Earl R. MacCormac, Charles A. Dana Professor of Philosophy at Davidson, will also serve as Executive Director of the North Carolina Board of Science and Technology. MacCormac, 50, has begun his duties part-time while he finishes teaching commitments at Davidson, where he has taught for 25 years. He will work full-time in his new position starting June 1.

MacCormac will direct a grant program for state projects relating to science and technology as well as advise the governor on hazardous waste treatment. MacCormac recently was a Fulbright lecturer at the University of Madras in India and a visiting scholar at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The author of the 1976 book "Metaphor and Myth in Science and Religion," MacCormac published two books in 1985, one on the cognitive theory of metaphor and the other on decision theory in setting electric utility rates. MacCormac earned bachelor's degrees in electrical engineering and divinity from Yale University. In addition, he holds master’s and doctoral degrees in philosophy from Yale. He is an adjunct professor of engineering at North Carolina State University.

Stuart Scholars Selected

Three high school seniors from South Carolina and one from Indiana have been selected to receive Edward Crosland Stuart scholarships. Based solely on merit, each of the scholarships is worth approximately $46,000 over a four-year period. Recipients for the 1986-87 academic year are Douglas A. Hicks of Indianapolis, Ind.; Katherine J. Janiec of Spartanburg, S.C.; Sarah K. S. Johnson of Due West, S.C.; and Thuhuong L. Trinh of Spartanburg, S.C. This year’s first alternate is Wendy G. Dunn of Sarasota, Fla.; and alternates are Krista L. Kirk of Asheville, N.C. and Timothy W. Wilson of Raleigh, N.C.

Each recipient is awarded an amount equal to Davidson's comprehensive fee, which includes tuition, room, board, miscellaneous fees, and laundry. For 1986-87, the comprehensive fee will be $11,445. Awards are normally renewable for the full four years of a Davidson education. Named for a 1954 Davidson graduate who died in a Navy plane crash off the coast of Florida in 1956, the scholarship is supported by the Edward Crosland Stuart Foundation of Bartow, Fla., and by Stuart’s fellow alumni.

The selection process to choose this year's class of scholars began last fall with more than 300 nominations from throughout the United States. The scholarships are awarded to students who exemplify four qualities: Christian commitment, scholastic achievement, vigorous outlook, and leadership. “As usual, choosing four scholarship recipients from among so many outstanding candidates has been terribly difficult,” said Seddon Goode, Jr., chairman of the scholarship’s board of directors. “However, we feel these students display the same superb qualities of life for which we remember Ed Stuart.”

Hicks, a senior at Park Tudor School in Indianapolis, is the son of Harry and Susan Hicks. He is a National Merit Scholar, a youth representative on the Board of Deacons of Second Presbyterian Church, a leader of his senior high youth group and Bible study, and the treasurer of the Park Tudor Key Club. Janiec, a senior at Spartanburg High School, is the daughter of Henry and Janice Janiec. She has been a member of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes, the choir and youth group of the Church of Advent, the top fundraiser at the American Cancer Society, and a volunteer at the South Carolina School for the Deaf and Blind.Work scholar at the Brevard Music Center. Johnson, a senior at Dixie High School in Due West, is the daughter of Merwyn and Beverly Johnson. She has been an elementary Sunday school teacher, a singer in youth and adult choirs, and a member of the youth group at the Greenville Presbyterian Church in Donalds, S.C. She has also participated in fund drives for cancer, hunger, and other causes, and been a counselor at Camp Fellowship of the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.).

Trinh, a senior at Spartanburg High School, is the daughter of Trinh Quang Phat and Nguyen Thi Hat of Vietnam, and the sister of Thai Trinh of Spartanburg. She is a member of the St. Paul Catholic Church and is ranked sixth in her class of almost 700.

Dunn, a senior at Sarasota High School, is the daughter of William and Kay Dunn. She has been a member of her youth group and a youth representative on the pastoral care and fellowship committee of the First Presbyterian Church. She has also been involved in the “Adopt-A-Grandparent” program at the Sunnyside Nursing Home and in the Christian Clown Ministry.

Wilson, a senior at Millbrook High School in Raleigh, is the son of Franklin and Doris Wilson. He is a member of the Pleasant Grove United Methodist Church and has been involved with the Six Forks Volunteer Fire Department, the Jim Hunt gubernatorial campaign, and the March of Dimes.

Kirk, a senior at Asheville High School, is the daughter of John and Leone Kirk. She is a member of the St. Lawrence Catholic Church, was named outstanding confirmation student, and has accompanied the children’s choir. She has also been involved in the United Way, the Special Olympics, and the Asheville Music Club. She is district president of the North Carolina Federation of Music Clubs.

Phi Beta Kappa members elected

Phi Beta Kappa Elected to membership March 27, 1986:
Lisa Re Anderson
Frederick Taylor Kalmbach
Jane Brevard Aurell
David Eugene Kaufmann
Christi Lynn Baggett
Paul Andrew Kowert
Sara Anita Beasley
Shelley Claire Lineberger
Christin Jarvis Bramlett
Karl Arthur Lorenz
Kevin Richard Burke
Sharon Leigh Maguire
James Gerald Burson
Harold Cantrell McKenzie, III
Scott Oliver Campbell
Kalbryn Adelaide McLean
Thomas Mitchell Cardwell
Lisa Dawn McNeilly
Jillian Leslie Clayton
Daryl Robert Pfister
Stuart Leonard Cooper
Douglas William Picton
William James Coxhead
Sara Ruth Pruett
James Stephen Dockery, III
Laura Leigh Ratchford
Ian Fallowfield Dunn
Mary Paige Reece
Gove Griffith Elder, Jr.
Wendy Fulks
Denise Gyauch
Mary Elizabeth Harding
Wellford Warriner Inge, III
Melissa Ruth Jones
Dudley Walton Reynolds, II
Patrick Joel Sellers
Loren Taylor Simpson
Nathan O'Neal Spell, III
David Robinson Vaughn
Allison Deery Wills

Greek Week Calendar

Monday:
Tug of War — sponsored by Phi Delta Theta. Behind the Phi Delta Theta house, 4 p.m.

Tuesday:
Soccer — sponsored by Fiji. Varsity soccer field, 3 p.m.

Wednesday:
Ultimate — sponsored by Kappa Alpha, Chambers Lawn, 3 p.m.
Basketball — sponsored by Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Johnston Gym, 7 p.m.

Thursday:
Golf — sponsored by Sigma Phi Epsilon. 4 p.m.
Beer Chug — sponsored by Pi Kappa Alpha. Front yard of Pika, 4 p.m.

Friday:
Headball — back parking lot, 2 p.m.

Saturday:
IFC party — Phi Delta Theta back porch, 10 p.m.

$0.50 OFF any item on Menu not on Special
Call 892-0129
In Cornelius
Located between I-77 & Cashion’s
Mon.-Sat. 10 a.m.-8 p.m.
[coupon expires April 26, 1986]

Friday, April 18, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN