Opinions . ai The Davidsonian Friday, April 18, 1986

Qaddafi’s actions reflect North-South conflict
J. Allen Smith

Libya lies in rubble this morning, but what does it really matter? An F-111 may have been shot down, but so too may have Qaddafi’s daughter. All in all, this military action makes sense since Qaddafi is obviously a madman. Hitler was a madman. He had to be stopped. So too must Qaddafi. Good man. Bad man. Batman. Everything cannot be as simple as it seems. Vietnam was not as simple as it seemed, and neither was World War II for that matter.

As Dr. Shaw noted in a recent Humes lecture, “The United States was one of six or seven of the world's greatest powers before World War II. After the war it was the single greatest power.” How could a nation that was hardly involved in a conflict so fierce come out victor? Hardly involved, yes. Our cities were not destroyed. So what does this have to do with Libya or Vietnam? Is not some oversimplified notion on the horizon of this article? I hope not.

I cannot be sure to condemn the United States for its action against the Libyans as have some among our European “allies” since as an American citizen I am somewhat intimidated and even a bit outraged by Qaddafi’s anti-American anything sentiments. Yet, Qaddafi eats food and uses the bathroom just the same as I. Calling him a madman and going into Libyatown like Yosemite Sam being the “hootenest, shootenest, dad blasted gun in town” is hardly a sane approach. Nor is the response, “the world is just insane sometimes, and you have to act accordingly,” anything more than a way of evading the issue.

There are reasons men like Qaddafi and even Hitler rise to the forefront of their nation’s politics, reasons not wholly separate from the shared sense of responsibility of mankind. How are nations that realize the depths of poverty their nations encompass supposed to react if they are to change anything? How? The first step is outrage. Outrage that the world could allow them to be so poor, and willingness to combat poverty, to stand up on one’s own feet, nobody else’s, and do something about it. Qaddafi gives his people the outrage and independence necessary for action.

Yet, his action threatens the lives of people. Namely us, the ones in control, the wealthier nations who have long since railed against the world in outrage and in a cry for independence. We are now the ones in control. How are we to deal with these upstart children like Qaddafi? It is frightening, isn't it, even nations grow old. Really, how am I supposed to believe this great nation of mine with “amber waves of grain” and “purple mounted majesties” will one day fall the way so many other great nations have. Yet, think a moment more, as Dr. Henry observed in my religion class, we have been in control of our nation for less time than the Moors controlled Spain. Perhaps our place in history is not as great as we would like to believe.

The Soviet Union calls our action against the Libyans as that of an imperialist nation, yet really I can see little difference between our “defensive aggression” to their “defensive invasion” into Afghanistan. How are Third World nations to rise on their own when the United States, Soviet Union, and perhaps China somewhat as well, control the world? The superpowers scramble for the Earth’s various pieces, perhaps they shall destroy themselves in the shuffle. The United States was hardly the major power before World War II, yet rose to superiority because it was the least involved, had the fewest scars. It is Qaddafi’s lack of involvement in world affairs that makes his presence frightening, for he — the underdog — has everything to gain and nothing to lose. It is this power that Qaddafi would like to exploit, the power of the underdog. Qaddafi (and others to take his place should he now be dead) would like to see a world where the Third World could rise, a world without the North. Perhaps, he must be thinking subconsciously, they will destroy themselves yet. Perhaps we shall.

J. Allen Smith is a sophomore history major from Durham, N.C.

Putting the feminist mess to rest
Kenneth Bogert

Dead subject? No. Why now and not earlier this year when everyone was talking about feminism? I forgot about it for a while. So get on with it! Okay. If you read one article on feminism this year, read this one! My aim is to put this mess about feminism to rest. However, I am aware that my article may do the opposite. I am the typical male. I am probably infected with grave misconceptions regarding feminism. If I offend anyone, I won't apologize, because I won't change.My opinion: Equal rights between men and women. I am completely pro-equal rights. I am certainly not afraid of women earning the same wage for the same job. Women are not the “same” as men, but they are certainly not inferior to men. I will benefit from equal rights; we all will. Eventually, all women will gain these rights. Now that I have stated my pro-equal rights feelings, I will comment on feminism. It has been written that feminism is a movement striving for equal rights. Why is it called feminism? Call it “The Movement for Equal Rights.” Now for my misconception: feminism is not the struggle for equal rights. It is an attempt by some women to gain desirable rights and retain feminine privileges. When women gain equal rights, they must remember the responsibility that those rights bring. These rights include the right to be drafted, the right to pay alimony, the right to hold the door open for men, etc. If equal rights are demanded, LET’S GO ALL THE WAY. Enjoy your new rights, women, but remember the responsibility of those rights. After you have earned the same high wage, be prepared to pay your ex-husband the child support he needs to raise the kids. If I have put women’s concerns back a decade, then I cannot see how. I am only looking to a future of equality. When terms like feminism are forgotten and equal rights are pursued. Only then will progress be made. Kenneth Bogert is a sophomore from Ho-Ho-Kus, New Jersey.

Just Words
Tim Brown

About two months ago, Sergey Rogov, first secretary of the Soviet embassy in Washington, arrived in Charlotte to speak on U.S.-Soviet relations and shared with us some lies and some other thoughts worth remembering. What lies and what truths? Here are his pair of lies.

(1) According to Sergey Rogov, there is no genocide occurring in Afghanistan. So upon hearing this, one is set back and desires to ask Rogov: What do you call it if not genocide, when ballpoint pens which explode when they're played with are dropped from airplanes into villages for children to play with? What do you call it when townspeople have their fingernails removed? A manicure? When elders in the community are killed and made into public spectacles? Euthanasia? Is there some truth, then, to the recent rumors that discrepancies in diction plague U.S.-Soviet relations?

(2) Sergey Rogov says that Soviet troops are in Afghanistan because the Afghani want them there. But here he is really persuading us to accept the statements of despots—with powers gotten from mother Russia—as statements from those who have no voice. The children and elders.

And upon finding out that Sergey Rogov has lived and studied in our country for 20 years, one approaches with pessimism Reagan’s reasoning that the two superpowers should exchange students, that in so doing ripe, young Soviet minds might be made fertile ground for free speech, capitalism, and so on—in less than a year’s time.

Sergey Rogov shared some thoughts, too.

(1) He spoke in regard to Reagan's joke about blowing up the Soviet empire in five minutes: “When you act irresponsibly, you produce a reaction, you produce suspicion. Even if you retract, people are not going to forget such jokes.

(2) He mentioned that “human rights” in the Soviet Union means everyone has a job and everyone has a place to live. Freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, and freedom of the press, he said, don’t enter into the Soviet picture.

(3) Americans don’t know all that much about the world in which they live outside, say, local affairs and maybe some state and national policies they’re interested in. What goes on in other countries is almost unknown. The size of his audience served as evidence, but at least a few attended and brought with them the initiative to learn. And we owe them, as beneficiaries, our thanks.

(4) He concludes: America’s idea that it is number one reaches chauvinistic proportions, which is advantageous in some instances, e.g., the Olympic games, and which is disadvantageous in other instances. A country’s ability to approach and to deal with international problems is lessened when she overestimates her own virtues.

So what might the optimist dream tonight? That someday Americans might have an increased desire to learn about the world in which they live. That they might attend, and in greater numbers, the lectures afforded them by Soviet and American diplomats. And that they might escape the ignorance that denies them the ability to distinguish a fact from a lie.

Brown is Opinions Editor of The Davidsonian.