By ANDY BARRON

I can’t speak for anyone else, but I had the time of my life last Monday night in Johnston Gym. Call me crazy, but being part of a mob, cheering on the Davidson basketball team and watching Marshall lose qualifies as a good time to me. Everyone else who was there would probably agree with me. Those of you who didn’t make it, well, you missed a great time.

On that night at Johnston Gym, everything that could go right did go right. The teams lived up to the pre-game hype. Both Davidson and Marshall played extremely well, each challenging the other to play to the limit of their talent or get out of town. The game had 40 minutes of intense play at both ends of the court, neither team willing to give up. Of course, having the home team win was the ultimate thrill. Well, maybe not. Beating Marshall and their entourage of green-clad fans ranks among the greatest and most important wins in recent Davidson basketball history.

However, what made the whole evening the exciting event that it was had to be the hordes of red-clad students who refused to be silenced at any time during the game. Time outs, Marshall surges, missed shots or turnovers by Davidson; none of these could stop the crescendo of doom from wilting the otherwise sturdy hearts of the Thundering Herd. Thundering Herd, ha! The only thunder heard on this night came from behind the Marshall bench, especially during time outs. Just ask Marshall coach Rick Huckaby how loud it was. Even moving his team huddles to mid-court failed to quiet the roar of the crowd.

Fans, if you don’t think your noise was appreciated, ask your friendly Wildcat basketball player or coach. They’ll tell you how much your enthusiasm helped the team’s effort. Think about it: how tough is it to get excited to play basketball when almost the entire student body is standing and yelling from 15 minutes before tip-off until 15 minutes after the game is over? Let’s face it, playing in front of a mob that’s cheering you on is actually quite a bit of fun.

Not every fan in Johnston Gym for the Marshall game was a student of the college. Yet it is the student body that supplies the energy that the rest of the crowd feeds off while watching the game. Students screaming their lungs out for 40 minutes shows an intense school pride that makes even the oldest member of the alumni ready to cheer as hard as he can. The noise level in Johnston Gym is directly proportional to the level of student enthusiasm.

In addition to providing plenty of noise, the students provided plenty of cheers, both new and old, that Johnston Gym sorely needed. Whoever decided it was time to institute the cheer in which the fans bring down upraised arms paired with an audible “whoosh” when Davidson makes free throws has my eternal thanks. I saw the Kansas fans do this in the Kansas-Oklahoma game last year and again against Louisville this year. Villanova’s fans also performed this maneuver against Maryland. Ever since I first saw this stunt I’ve thought it would be perfect for Davidson since the Wildcats are so good at shooting free throws. Whoever took charge and started that cheer, congratulations on a job well done.

Yes fans, it was certainly a hot time in ol’ Johnston Gym Monday night. The point I want to make concerns Davidson’s last two home games.The superior play of the basketball team puts Davidson right in the hunt for the Southern Conference title. Every game means a lot at this stage of the race. On Saturday, February 15, Appalachian State comes to town. For the large contingent of fans from Davidson that traveled to Boone to see the Cats lose a heartbreaker, don’t you want to be there when Davidson gets revenge? With some planning, the Mountaineer could get the same welcome Marshall received. Yet if you can only make one more home basketball game this winter, come to the East Tennessee State game on Monday, Feb. 17. Not only will this be a crucial game in the Southern Conference title chase, but this will be the final home game for seniors Pepper Bego, Gerry Born, Jim McConkey, Ken Niebuhr, Pat Riazzi, and Ted Wolfe. These players have given a lot to Davidson during their time on campus. Not only have they all played an important part in Davidson's best basketball season in over a decade, but they have represented Davidson well both on and off the court. There will be a small ceremony for the six seniors before the ETSU game. All Davidson students should consider attendance mandatory. I don’t see why every home game can’t be as riotous an event as the Marshall game. Everyone there had a great time; everyone not wearing green, that is.

(Edward Jackman)

Entertainment Weekend
Barbara Bailey Hutchison

COLLEGE GRADUATES
Put your education to work—become a Lawyer’s Assistant
“The Career of the 80’s”

In fact, we'll even pay you more than $600 a month while you attend. That's in addition to paying for your tuition, required books, and fees. It's all part of the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. And here is how it works! If you're selected for a Physician's Scholarship—from the Army, Navy, or Air Force—you’re commissioned as an officer in the Reserves. While you're in school, you'll serve 45 days a year on active duty, gaining valuable medical experience. After graduation, you will serve three or more years, the length depending on the requirements of the Service selected and years of scholarship assistance received. As an Armed Forces physician, you'll receive officer's pay and benefits, and enjoy the advantages of working regular hours. You'll also see a diversity of patients and have opportunities to use sophisticated medical technology. But most important, while you're in medical school we'll help pay the bills. For more information, send in this coupon. There is no obligation.

Mail this coupon to: Armed Forces Scholarships, PO Box 2865, Huntington Station, NY 11746-2102

Check up to three: ARMY NAVY AIR FORCE

Please print all information clearly and indicate: Male Female

Name: First Middle Initial Last
Address: Apt. #
City: State: Zip:
College: Yr. Grad:
Phone: DAY ( ) EVENING ( )

The National Center for Paralegal Training
° Oldest and largest ABA-approved program in Southeast
° Employment assistance—over 1,000 employers in 38 states have hired our graduates
° 3-month day program with housing available
° 6-month evening program
° Diversified Curriculum—specialize in Litigation, Corporations, or Real Estate and Probate—including “Computers in the practice of Law”

Meet with our admissions representative Tuesday, February 18, 9:00 AM-12:00 noon at the college placement office.

The National Center for Paralegal Training
3414 Peachtree Rd, NE
Atlanta, GA 30326
800-223-2618
In Georgia, call 404-266-1060

Please send me information about a career as a Lawyer's Assistant

Name:
Address:
City: State: Zip:
College: Yr. Grad:
Phone: DAY ( ) EVENING ( )