Features

Short Courses offer alternative to winter doldrums

By BILL BUGG

Winter is upon us, and so are the College Union’s “Beat the winter doldrums” Short Courses. Open to everyone at little cost, the non-academic classes range from Croquet to Cooking to Conflict Management. The 16 courses, taught by Davidson staff, students, and townspeople, begin next week.

For those interested in the summer pastime, Union Director William Brown will teach students to “learn to play croquet” and “frolic on the lawn in front of the Union,” in a course appropriately called “Serious Croquet.” The one-day “class” begins Wednesday at 3 p.m. and is open to eight students.

Judith Murphy, Davidson Self Study Committee assistant, will teach Budget Gourmet on Monday evening at her home (limit 10). “Learn how to prepare great but inexpensive meals,” she said.

Bread Making will be taught by Ruth Pittard, Union Program Coordinator. “Learn the basics of bread baking and take a loaf home with you.” The class will take place Monday evening at her home.

Housing Director Tom Jennings will instruct 10 students in Beginning/Intermediate Folk/Pop Guitar. The course, which will provide an “introduction to chords, scales, theory, and simple picking,” will begin Thursday in the Morrison Room.

Trissy Lomax of Natural Resources will teach a special seminar on Wine Tasting. The course, which will allow 30 students to “learn about wines while sampling them,” will meet at the Center for Special Studies Jan. 22 and Feb. 5.

Life Work Planning will be taught by Assistant Director of the Careers Office, Carol Jordon. The course (limit 20) will provide “career assessment, skills analysis, and strategies for planning” and will meet three successive Wednesdays beginning Jan. 15.

Sophomore Steve Larson’s Introduction to Rock Climbing will include a trip to Crowders Mountain Jan. 25. A one-hour class will be held Jan. 15. The limit is 20 students.

Basic Backpacking and Wilderness Skills will be taught by Junior Newton Quantz and Sophomore Mike Jarmon. The course, designed for those who have never backpacked, will include an “introduction to equipment, clothing, and skills that will enable you to backpack with confidence” and will meet Wednesday in the Big Screen Room.

Senior Wallis Goodman will teach “Introduction to licensed massage therapy for back, shoulder, neck, and face.” The class, open to 30 students, will meet on four successive Mondays beginning next week.

Lebanese Cooking will be taught to five students by Admissions Counselor Steve Soud at the home of Harriette Root, Assistant Dean of Students, on Sunday, Jan. 26. “Learn to cook several Lebanese dishes (kibbi, tabouleh, etc.) and stay to eat them,” he said.

Elaine McArn of the Needlecraft Center will instruct 10 students on how to knit a basic sweater in her Beginning Knitting class. The course will meet on four successive Wednesdays beginning Wednesday at the Needlecraft Center.

College Chaplain Charlie Summers will teach Conflict Management in a three-week seminar beginning Wednesday, Jan. 22. The class will discuss “dealing with disagreement, creative ways to handle conflicts — huge and small (parents, professors, roommates).” The class will meet in the Union and has a limit of 12 students.

Linda Janca will teach a class in Hambone (time to be announced). “Learn to play your body in the folk tradition of old. Learn an unusual skill. Be the life of future parties!” she said.

Beginning Pool will be taught by Sound and Light Technician Eric Christensen on four successive Wednesday afternoons beginning this Wednesday. No experience is necessary for the course, which is limited to six students.

Pottery will be taught by senior Arienne Cheek on Monday evening in the weight room at the stadium. This “basic introduction to throwing on a pottery wheel” is limited to six.

Debra McClure will instruct 12 students in Certified CPR Jan. 27-28. The Red Cross Certified training requires eight hours for a certificate.

Student presents hammered dulcimer essay at convention of American Folklore Society

By LAURIE BALLENGER

The next time you feel like complaining about the work you have to do, ask junior Jay Wilkins about preparing a research project for a professional research society.

During October 16-20, junior Jay Wilkins traveled to Cincinnati to present his research on the hammered dulcimer to the 1985 convention of the American Folklore Society. Wilkins started out innocently enough with a term paper for Sociology professor Rosemary Zumwalt’s “Introduction to Anthropological Folklore.” Zumwalt was so impressed with Jay’s paper that she suggested that he present it to the American Folklore Society. Wilkins' presentation consisted of...a talk accompanied by a slide show and demonstration of the dulcimer. According to Jay, “Facing a group of graduate students and doctoral candidates was a little intimidating,” but Zumwalt said that his “natural style of presentation worked to his advantage” and was “accessible and interesting.” For those of you who don’t know, a hammered dulcimer is a wooden box with strings stretched across it. The instrument is played by striking the strings with hammers. It sounds like a combination piano/guitar, with a little bit of the harpsichord thrown in. Wilkins first became interested in dulcimers when he helped the assistant camp director at Quaker Lake, Jeff Sebens, build the instruments last summer. Sebens had built and sold several hammered dulcimers as a hobby. “Jeff [Sebens] believes that music can play a big part in bringing peace, and he places an inlaid symbol of a dove, often synonymous with peace, into each dulcimer he builds as a reflection of that belief.” Wilkins’ paper included a description of Sebens’ construction of the instruments and the influence of the camp director's Quaker background on his music. Jay also recalled Sebens’ first experience building a dulcimer. “He saw one at a state fair and sent away for plans. He built his first one out of odds and ends around the house — old piano strings, plywood, and coat hangers. It sounded good through his experimentation with different sizes and woods he has refined what he (Sebens) referred to as a pretty clunky old box into a fine instrument.” Sebens builds them himself, constructing and selling about five per year. A mathematics major, Jay does not anticipate a career in anthropology although he expects to always be interested in music.

Davidson family remains involved in college
By NELLE McCORKLE

Two Davidsons work for the college: Chalmers Gaston Davidson, Archivist, and Robert Clayton Davidson, Comptroller. Although Robert Davidson is not a direct descendant of William Lee Davidson, for whom the college is named, Chalmers Davidson speaks of the Revolutionary War general's son as “Uncle Billy Lee.” Chalmers Davidson's great-great-great uncle, Major William Lee Davidson II, was the son of General William Lee Davidson, who was killed at the Battle of Cowan's Ford in 1781. Major Davidson, it is believed, gave the land for the college; he also endowed the first professorship. The college land originally was part of Major Davidson’s 785-acre plantation; his house, Beaver Dam, built in 1829, is now the home of the Chalmers Davidsons. Active in the institution named for his father, Major Davidson served as first college treasurer and as trustee. “Forty-five nephews of Uncle Billy Lee’s attended,” Chalmers Davidson said. “If they'd taken nieces, it would have been one hundred.” Major Davidson did not have any children, so all descendants are nieces and nephews. Connections between today’s Davidsons are not so clear. “When I first came to work here,” Robert Davidson said, “Chalmers said to me, ‘I don’t know how we’re related, but I’m going to call you Cousin Robert.’ So, we call each other Cousin Robert and Cousin Chalmers.” Reflecting on his family’s connection to the area and college, Chalmers Davidson '28 said, “I may have been predestined to come here — I may have been a traditionalist since my youth.” He discussed the college with Confederate veterans who were alumni: “When I asked them if students at Davidson fought duels, they said, ‘Duels? Chalmers you’ve been reading trash. It was a Christian college so we didn’t fight duels.’” “Frankly I was bitterly disappointed at the time,” Chalmers Davidson said, but he was also impressed when the veterans told him Davidson had the largest endowment south of Princeton during the 1850s. Although his branch of the family has been continuously in the Davidson area since Lord Granville gave Joseph Davidson a land grant in the mid-1700s, Robert Davidson said, “I don’t think much about it — it’s just something you grow up with. “I do get constant comments, especially when people call on the phone,” and learn that his name is the same as the college’s, Robert Davidson said. “I find it rather amusing. “The family has had a profound influence in the area, whatever branch you belong to,” Robert Davidson said. Davidson influence beyond the Carolinas includes Davidson County, Tennessee, named for Alexander Davidson, Joseph’s son, and Sam Houston’s grandmother, who was a Davidson. “Cousins” Chalmers Davidson and Robert Davidson pose with a portrait of William Lee Davidson II, Chalmers Davidson's great-great-great uncle, in the E.H. Little Library Davidsoniana Room.