THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Lovers and the Moon

Some lovers, obscure lovers,
sat in a lonely park
on a secluded old bench
made of marble
where the moon made love
with this white stone,
flooded it with milky luminescence
until it grew hard and cold,
yet beautiful and serene,
clear,

so clear that it reflected the moon on its surface.

So when the obscure lovers sat,
sat in the lonely park
on the secluded bench
made of marble,
they knew they weren’t alone.

They knew they weren’t alone.

A large myth was looming all around,
a universe with an equilibrium,
a whole.

The lovers were engaged
some years later—
a moonstone ring.

They lived,
almost in an aura of still sensitivity.
They never spoke throughout their lives;
even as they loved each other,
they were aware of the spherical orb
that reflected the intense, queer radiance.

When this new voice
screamed aloud
amidst
the still environment,
it echoed and created
an earth-shaking resonance.

Its force disengaged
two leaves from a tree
just above the bench
which had been weakened
in the recent storm.

They flew, glided,
and fluttered
downwards
in this still atmosphere.

The lovers,
the father and mother of the child,
died.

Near the marble bench
was a tombstone
made of moonstone,
and a tree above it.

As a last offering
was placed,

Art Beat

Curator, artist, and art department director Herb Jackson invites you to view Russ Warren’s art exhibit through October 17 in
the Chambers gallery. Warren exhibits and sells his work globally and is a full-time faculty member at Davidson.

Fantastic things happen in his work. Human forms and frightening creatures exchange skulls and flowers; energy transmissions pierce the sky
and forms dance and fly over alien worlds.

“What do these things symbolize?”

Warren’s bright colors and distinct forms delight the literary, but I urge you to look further. Play with symbolism, but
only long enough to appease intellect. Enjoy the shapes. Do you feel balanced or is the floor tilting beneath you?
Enjoy the intensity of the colors. Get close. Stand back. Feel the pressure each color exerts. Feel the texture and
the brush strokes, but not with your hands. Use your psyche! What do you smell... taste?

Descend onto the gallery marble floor today and enter the artist. Close your eyes and see his work. Experience your
humanity.

Stan Armistead ’88

that bound them together, two leaves, and the moonstone ring;

The Big Sea of Thought

that brought them to where they were now,
that made them meet when they did for the first time.

Some years later,
they had a child.
It was a full moon night,
though just before its conception,
there was a great tempest,
the sky was overcast,
obscured by clouds.

Amidst all this tempestuous clamor
and cloudy diffusion,
the lovers perceived a strange
but familiar sight,
an apparition
that approached them from the distance,
a mirage they thought,
an almost frighteningly familiar sight—
a marble bench,
solitary,
but glowing with a milky luminescence.

Suddenly,
the storm stopped:
all was dead still,
nothing moved,
it was cold.

On the same bench
now appeared
a fresh green sapling,
its roots emerging from the lifeless stone.

A reversion of order—
calm after a storm,
life from an inanimate womb.

Robert Nesbit

Thanks to everyone who submitted for this issue. Unfortunately, we were pressed for space and were not able to print
all the submissions. We will print them in the Oct. 24 issue. However, in order for us to print your
works, we need them by Oct. 21 at the latest! (via Lee Eichelberger, Mike Jarmon, or that ole stand by—the
ART Box!) A word to everyone—SUBMIT. We need what you have! Also, a special thanks to Mike Jarmon, my new
Visual Arts Editor, for his continuous support (and his help in layout) and to the whole campus for their warm
reception to Inside Art’s debut. Keep up the good work!

Lee Eichelberger
Inside Art Editor
