Friday, January 10, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

Headlining the news for January 6-8:
Middle East news — In a statement made on Sunday, Libyan leader Gen. Muamar Qaddafi denied the presence of Palestine
guerrilla training camps in Libya but reiterated his support of the Palestine cause.

Qaddafi also warned the U.S. that a retaliating attack on Libya for December’s airport bombings in Rome and Vienna could
spark “World War III”; Libya’s military is currently under full operational alert. In a news conference on Tuesday, President Reagan
announced the enactment of full economic sanctions against Libya.

In other Mideast developments: Temporarily easing tensions with Israel, Syria moved Soviet-supplied missiles it had deployed last month along the
Syrian-Lebanese border; however, Israel suspects the movement is only temporary.

Latin American news — Despite the finding of weapons sent from Nicaragua, Colombia has accepted Nicaragua’s explanation denying any involvement
in the November attack on the Colombian Palace of Justice.

Jan. 3 marked the 25th anniversary of America’s severed ties with Cuba; the U.S. fears that evidence reveals that its
effort to “isolate Cuba” is yielding to a pro-Castro trend in the hemisphere.

South African news — In response to a walkout by black employees, a large platinum mine fired 20,000 black workers.
A six-member U.S. congressional delegation was denied permission to visit jailed black activist Nelson Mandela.

Meanwhile, speaking earlier this week in New York, Anglican Bishop Desmond Tutu said that apartheid would be ended if the
U.S. applied the same kind of pressure that it uses against Nicaragua. Tutu expressed his concern that the South African
government will fail to meet his March deadline for the dismantling of apartheid.

Other international news — In the Philippines, responding to President Marcos’ accusations that she is pro-communist, opposition candidate Corazon Aquino
announced that if elected in the Feb. 7 presidential election she will not allow communists in her cabinet.

Nicholas Veliotes, the U.S. Ambassador to Egypt, will leave the foreign service after 31 years and is expected to be
named president of the Association of American Publishers; his replacement has not been announced.

Yelena Bonner, the wife of Soviet dissident and Nobel Prize winner Andrei Sakharov, is scheduled to undergo heart bypass surgery
on Monday in Boston, Mass.

National news — Agriculture Secretary John Block announced on Tuesday that having “accomplished the Reagan administration’s major farm policy goal,”
he will resign in mid-February.

In economic news, 1985 saw the highest car and truck sales in the U.S. in seven years with sales topping
$15.7 million; most sales were of Japanese and European imports. The U.S. Labor Department announced on Wednesday that as of
December the civilian unemployment rate was at 6.9 percent, the lowest level in six years.

In scientific developments, challenging principles identified by Galileo and Einstein, physicists believe that there may be a previously unaccounted for
fifth force operating in the universe. Finally, 1986 marks the 30th birthday of Kermit the Frog, the original Muppet.

Thought of the Week — “Being entirely honest with oneself is a good experience.”
Sigmund Freud

McKelway speaks on South Africa in 900 room

By ANDY BALL

Religion professor Alexander McKelway addressed an audience of more than 75 people Tuesday, giving impressions of his recent two-week trip
to South Africa.

McKelway was part of a nine-member delegation of educators that made the trip in late November to witness the problems
in South Africa first-hand.

Much of the program centered around the resolution of South Africa’s problems through the use of disinvestment. McKelway said, “disinvestment
should be continued but should be done so with the understanding that it could possibly lead to increased violence.”

McKelway encountered a varied cross-section of South African society during his stay. He participated in meetings and consultations with government
officials, business executives, members of the press, educators, and black township leaders.

Although McKelway sees South Africa’s situation as “almost intractable,” he sees hope coming from the church. He urged the audience
not to be deceived by current opinions about the situation. “Doomsaying about South Africa has become very popular recently. This
kind of prophecy is very self-fulfilling, but fallacious.”

McKelway proposed several resolutions to South Africa's problems, including: revocation of the Homeland Policy and Pass-Laws which prohibit accessibility to
certain areas of South Africa to blacks, state funding for black education, and the release of Nelson Mandela. He also
advocated talks with Mandela’s party, the African National Congress.

McKelway’s presentation was one of a series of programs sponsored by the Dean Rusk program in order to increase public
awareness of the problems of South Africa.

HOW TO KICK THE NUCLEAR HABIT

A Discussion Led By Tom Halsted
Jan. 14 At 7 p.m. In The 900 Room

HALSTED’S POSITIONS HAVE INCLUDED:
* Key Role In 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis
* Intelligence Expert
* Endless Activities In The Raising Of Public Awareness Of Nuclear Weapons

ALSO: Jan. 14 at 4 p.m. there will be an open forum with Dr. Halsted and Dr. Frederick Norris of
UNCC who played an active role in the Geneva conferences.
