Friday, February 7, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Adult literacy program sees success
By JIM DILLON

A love of literature and the hope that more people will learn to read inspired Frances Frame, a junior English
major, to begin a program for adult literacy using Davidson students as tutors. Just four months after the first tutor
training workshop was offered, five tutor-student pairs are working together, and 15 more tutors have just completed their training to
begin tutoring.

“It was just something I'd always wanted to do. I love to read, and I’m an English major. I'd like
to see more people learn to read, and it’s a really good way to reach people,” Frame said.

The second set of training workshops was completed yesterday. Frame says she thinks the tutors get a lot out of
the literacy program. “I think they get a sense of satisfaction. They are giving back some of what they’ve been
given. There are Davidson students who have been given BMWs, and there are others who have been on work-study the
whole time, but the one thing we’ve all been given is an education. We all know how to read. I
think they get a sense of satisfaction from sharing that,” Frame said.

Tutors are trained by a representative of the Mecklenburg County Literacy Council. They learn how to deal with potential students
and how to teach using the Laubach reading program. Frame says teaching an adult to read is quite different from
teaching a child. “It’s not so much in how you teach that’s different, but there’s a difference in the students
themselves. The adult is there because he wants to be. He knows that he needs to know how to read
whereas a child is there because he has to be. In that sense, they are more willing to learn, but
it’s harder for them in some senses because they’ve been out of a classroom environment for longer,” Frame said.

Frame said right now the emphasis of the program is on getting more illiterate students since fifteen more tutors are
available, and she doubted that further workshops will be conducted this year. Although Frame said most students have different levels
of ability and knowledge, they are all technically illiterate when they begin the program. “They can’t read road signs or
a map. They can’t write down someone’s name, and so they have to remember it. They can’t fill out a
job application or read the want ads,” Frame said.

Andy Doherty, a freshman who is currently tutoring, said there is a definite need for literacy training in the area.
“From what I understand, a third of the people in Mecklenburg County can’t read. The people in the cities kind
of have to, and it’s the people in the suburbs who can’t,” Doherty said.

Doherty says he became interested in the program because he likes to work with people and because it was a
new opportunity for him. “It’s something I had never in my whole life even come close to doing — me
teaching someone else instead of someone teaching me. I’m getting to see if I can actually teach. I'd consider it
an accomplishment if I can do that,” Doherty said.

Doherty said a normal session begins with basic vocabulary, and...

Translator lectures on poet, Seifert
By AARON LEVINE

Hampden-Sydney professor Paul Jagasich, a translator of poems by the late Czechoslovakian poet Jaroslav Seifert, will speak on “Translating Seifert:
Global Political Conflict in Literary Perspective” next Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. At 8:30 a.m., he plans
to give an interview on WDAV.

History professor Robin Barnes was instrumental in bringing Jagasich to Davidson. “Seifert’s fame results partly from the quality of his
poetry and partly from the fact that he had to deal as a creative writer with a regime unfriendly to
much of what he said,” Barnes said.

Jagasich and another Hampden-Sydney professor, Tom O’Grady, were active in tracking down Seifert’s works by going to Czechoslovakia in 1984
to meet with Seifert. In the Nov. 27, 1984 issue of the Richmond Times-Dispatch, an article said the professors’ journey
had the quality of a spy thriller involving an ambassador's covert aid, an embassy’s back room copiers, meeting several contacts
from “friends of friends or more friends” in coffee houses. Detection by the authorities was an ever-present possibility.

Another issue of the Times-Dispatch said, “The Hampden-Sydney College teachers talk of posing as tourists, of resorting to diplomatic pouches
or body...belts, of arrangements with Soviet accomplices . . .” Later they work on relating the words to simple sentences.
He added he and the student haven’t gotten far enough to manipulate words so the student can decipher them; “like
changing bat to cat.” “Even though we've just started out, I think we're really making progress,” he said.

Before his death in 1985 at the age of 84, Seifert was at constant odds with the Czech communist regime
over the content of his poems which openly advocate political freedom. His works were banned from the Czech public until
very recently. Many of his works were smuggled to the West. In 1968, a collection of his poems on microfilm
was smuggled out taped to the leg of a British embassy worker. This collection, The Casting of Bells, won him
the Nobel Prize for Literature.

Barnes recommends this lecture for all students, but particularly for students interested in international relations and global political conflicts.

Strategic planning task force report released
By NELLE McCORKLE

The Strategic Planning document will be released today, Assistant to the President Rick Love said. Prepared by a 17-member task
force of student, faculty, administration, alumni, and trustee representatives appointed by President Kuykendall, “The plan recommends a direction for Davidson
College by identifying objectives and establishing priorities among those interests which compete for institutional allocations of talent, time, and money,”
according to the introduction of the latest draft.

In April 1985, the Board of Trustees directed Kuykendall to prepare this report; the document’s release coincides with the Feb.
20-21 Board meeting. The Strategic Planning document is unofficial until reviewed by the trustees, who may accept, reject, or recommend
further work upon the document. “It’s not graven in stone, not having constitutional status it’s a working paper,” Kuykendall said.
“It’s not intended to be kind of a living document subject to constant scrutiny and annual revision.”

Kuykendall said he intends to propose to the trustees that the document’s first revision begin in April, with a report
made at the October board meeting. Members of the Revision Task Force will be a “representative group not named as
individuals but named for their offices”; Kuykendall will appoint these people. “A strategic plan by its very nature is a
holistic view,” Kuykendall said. “All parts have to be knit together in the whole . . . it’s supposed to
be a piece and metamorphosis.”

A faculty/staff forum and a student forum are scheduled for Feb. 11 to discuss the Strategic Planning document, Kuykendall will
moderate each meeting. Asked what the next step for the report is, Kuykendall said, “The immediate next step of course
is the two forums, and that next step is primarily an effort to encourage comment and provide some familiarity for
the community at large before it [the report] goes to the Board of Trustees.”

Aspects of the report Kuykendall expects to attract attention include its priorities for use of capital funds: “Capital projects always
attract the most attention and are surely subject to infinite debate.” Kuykendall said capital projects mentioned in the report represent
the establishment of priorities rather than immediate plans for construction.

Kuykendall said he expects students to be interested in the Strategic Planning document’s statements on admissions recruitment, curriculum review, and
student life. He hopes student response will be, “first of all . . . an expression of genuine interest; secondly,
creative commentary, with affirmation, revision or in some cases rejection of what’s there.” Student comment based on the forum and
outside response will be used in evaluating the document, Kuykendall said.

SGA President Beadsie Woo said of the student forum, “Students should read the document and, not only come, but speak
out. It is important that people who both agree and disagree with the document come.”

The Task Force referred to the self-study for data and recommendations according to the final draft introduction. Members of the
Task Force are: trustee William K. Davis; alumni Susan Baynard Clayton, ’78 and William L. Rikard '67; faculty: Laurence S.
Cain, Gail M. Gibson, John D. Kelton ’51, Benjamin G. Klein (vice chairman and pro tem of the faculty), and
Lance K. Stell; students Woo and Mark Sandy; administration: Robert W. Davidson, John V. Griffith, John W. Kuykendall, Assistant to
the President Rick Love, A. Richardson Love, Jr. '75, Grover C. Meetze, Jr. '55, and Paula Moore Miller. Strategic Planning
consultant Ronald A. Novelli also served on the Task Force and moderated the group's meetings, Love said.
