Friday, February 7, 1986

THE DAVIDSONIAN ~ 13

The silent minority

I wrote an article similar to this one for The Davidsonian two years ago. Three weeks ago, I was asked
by a close friend to re-submit it for use prior to Human Sexuality Week, which begins this Sunday. I agreed
and thus, here is that article with some minor changes.

Several years ago, the Davidson College community began re-examining its racial attitudes. A RACE committee was formed, and it pushed
the college to confront and begin changing the counter-productive policies and attitudes that it held. By all accounts, it was
a success, if only for the simple reason that it got people talking and kept them talking.

Due to this success, one might believe that racial minorities are Davidson’s only minority students. No, unfortunately, they are the
only minority that the trustees and the president have chosen to recognize. Another minority, indeed an even larger minority, does
exist here. I am a member of this minority. I am male, belong to an on-campus fraternity, play on a
sports team, and am active throughout this campus’ life. Other members of my minority are also active members of the
student body and the chances are that at least one of them is a close friend of yours. Our minority
doesn’t discriminate on any basis; we have blacks, Catholics, rich and poor as members. Sounds like a majority, doesn’t it?
What could make us a minority? Well, Davidson, we are gay.

It is a difficult thing to deal with, especially when one hears the derogatory term “faggot” used, whether in fun
or taunting, several times each day. For those of you who don’t know, “faggot” is the gay equivalent of calling
a Black a “nigger.” It is never acceptable. Ever. Most of us prefer the term gay when we discuss our
sexual preference, which isn’t that often. Being gay is not always an easy thing to deal with, but it is
even worse if one is a student at Davidson. Everybody knows everybody else at this school, and Davidson is far
from liberal or accepting. The estimates of the American gay male population range from 12 to 26 million males. That
translates to anywhere from around 9.6 percent to 20.9 percent of males; that is, from one-in-ten to one-in-five red-blooded American
males. Regardless of which figure is more accurate, it suffices to say that the number is substantial and that out
of the 835 males at Davidson there are from 83 to 167 gays here, mostly closeted.

I want to qualify these figures. First, I am not including gay women, even though they make two percent to
five percent of the U.S. female population. Second, in using the term “gay” one must realize that sexual preference is
not a black/white issue. There is a sexual continuum from straight to bisexual to gay and everywhere in between. Further,
sexual preference is not constant and changes over time and situation. A sexual encounter between two males is just that,
nothing more. Therefore, labels are not appropriate for describing sexual preferences. The “gay” I use here is a catch-all phrase
to describe the attraction of one male towards another, though not necessarily at the expense of his attraction to females.

So, what is so difficult about being gay at Davidson? Well, several things. The first is an implication of the
above definition of being gay. Each gay at Davidson is different — each individual varies according to the strength of
his preferences and the extent to which he has explored them. Further, we all have varied interests outside of sexual
preference just like the rest of the world. Some like sports (as I do), others are into religion, and still
others like working on publications or at the college union. The sub-culture at Davidson is relatively weak, and, therefore, we
don’t all know each other.

What this means is that gays at Davidson (and most other backwards, small, homophobic places in general) lack support because
we are never able to get together. This is a problem because, especially at our ages, we need to be
able to talk with each other and share our feelings and problems. We need to be assured that we aren’t
the only person in the world with these feelings, that we are not all alone. Yet, there is no way
to do this at Davidson because of the recrimination that would occur if it were even attempted. Davidson, unfortunately, happens
to fall during the point in many people’s lives when they begin to recognize what their feelings are all about.
Gays go through the same process, though they may wait until they are older, but sooner or later almost all
gays “come out” — at least to themselves. This whole period is often a frustrating, painful and long process which
has many stages. The current AIDS crisis and the accompanying cacophony of sick jokes and God’s wrath sermons make this
even more difficult than a decade ago. Davidson is the worst place on Earth to come out, and each year
many gays transfer, take time off, or go abroad to seek relief from Davidson’s stifling, elitist conformism and homophobia.

There is really no analogy to the coming-out experience. Blacks never have to discover that they are black, much less
tell their parents about it. Further, there is no such thing as “choosing to be gay.” I didn’t choose to
be gay anymore than blacks “choose to be black” or left-handed people “choose to be left-handed.” True, being gay is
not the “norm” in the statistical sense, but it is a “normal” part of the human race, just as being
left-handed is not the “norm,” yet “normal.” There are a million theories as to why some people are sexually attracted
to members of their own sex and a million exceptions to each theory. The bottom line is that it doesn’t
matter. Gays have always been a fact throughout both history and nature and will continue to be. We are everywhere.
And since we are also students at Davidson, and often do deal with the issue while we are here...Here, Davidson
should try to make this process and our lives here less painful. There are several areas where Davidson as a
college can help. First and foremost, Davidson College should state that it does not discriminate on the basis of sexual
preference. Nowhere in the college’s statement on discrimination is sexual preference mentioned, as it is by other colleges and universities.
It should be, and I urge President Kuykendall to push for its inclusion. Inserting this phrase is not at all
an admission of past guilt, but only a statement of future policy.

Second, Davidson should provide better counseling and role models for those exploring their sexual feelings and preferences. A counselor sensitive
to the needs of gay college students is needed and could be provided just as one has been provided for
students with eating disorders. Likewise, there should be a doctor at the college infirmary who is known to be sympathetic
and aware of the many specialized health issues facing gays. Finally, I think there should be someone on the faculty
or administration available and supportive of gay students, especially those who want to discuss the problems they are facing. This
person need not be gay him or herself, but rather could serve as a reference point for the Davidson gay
community.

As for role models, I’m not sure what can be done. In most people’s minds, gays cannot be successful. This
belief and the stereotypes that support it are a myth. Davidson should find some way to let all students know
that sexual preference should never stand in the way of goals and ambitions. If you are gay, you can do
anything you want in life. Straights and gays who are coming out see only waiters, florists, interior decorators, and artists
who live an openly gay lifestyle. They never see the private parties where gay lawyers, doctors, politicians, and business executives
socialize. Though Davidson gays will eventually know this world, Davidson should find some way to let all students know that
sexual preference should never stand in the way of goals and ambition.

Third, Davidson needs to treat gays more fairly in the classroom. In the classes where gays are discussed, it is
often under the heading of “social deviance” and the discussions center on the darker sides of the gay world, such
as sex in public restrooms. Has any sociology professor ever been to a gay bar or party? Don’t they know
that sex in public restrooms is not the part of the gay world that Davidson graduates tend to participate in?
Public restroom sex and bathhouses are a very small and promiscuous part of the gay world and by far the
least attractive — even more so considering the AIDS epidemic. Is this the impression of gays that Davidson wants to
leave with its students? Apparently so. The straight equivalent of this teaching would be to describe heterosexuality in terms of
pimps, prostitutes, and sluts — a description that doesn’t do justice to heterosexuality. Well, the whole way Davidson deals with
gays, both in and out of the classroom, is counter-productive to both gays and straights in understanding what being gay
is all about.

Finally, I am asking for the equivalent of a RACE committee to promote awareness of gays and their problems at
Davidson. Davidson needs this desperately, and it should be composed of concerned and open-minded individuals, be they straight or gay.
Parents have disowned their children, friendships have been shattered, and many women have been hurt when well-meaning friends tell of
their boyfriend's last love to a man. Davidson, you have a problem: attitudes. While gays are an invisible minority, we
are stifled and suffer because we cannot open up to anybody. We are paranoid because we know that if word
leaks, a semi-stigma results. Davidson, you need to rethink your attitudes about gays. We are here.

Three years ago a forum/panel discussion on the subject of homosexuality was held here at Davidson and was met with
an incredible response. Another one will be held, as a part of Human Sexuality Week, next Monday evening, Feb. 10,
at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room. Outside guests and representatives of the college community will discuss “The Invisible Minority,”
and, at the end, answer written questions submitted by the audience. Everyone is invited to attend and learn about a
subject which, more than likely, will touch everyone's life in some way. Yet, this forum is only the beginning. Davidson
needs to confront some facts: the fact that gays are at Davidson, the fact that homophobia is irrational and hurting
a significant portion of society, and the fact that gays at Davidson live a silent agony because we fear the
ostracism that would result from expressing any facet of our sexuality, at any level of discretion. But most of all,
you must face the fact that you are afraid of us because you don’t understand one small part of our
humanity. And because of that fear, we suffer, and you miss the liberal arts education that Davidson claims to provide
and you claim to receive.

Finally, remember that we are just like you except that we are at times attracted to our own sex. We
are not bound by any stereotype (limp-wristed or otherwise), nor are we out to rape or molest anyone. All we
want is help with our concerns and for our preference not to matter — because it shouldn't. I wish I
could sign my name to this article, because I am proud of it, but I cannot. I know that if
I did, those around me would have to pay a price that I will not let them pay. Further, I
have a life to live, and my sexual preference is one very small, discreet part of that life — a
private part which I only want to disclose to close friends and not hide out of fear from the rest
of the world. I don’t want to be paranoid about people finding out I am gay, bisexual, or whatever, but
then neither do I want to advertise it. Many gays spend too much time being gay. But conversely, while closets
are often warm and secure they are also very lonely places. Life in a locked closet is no life at
all. Remember, Davidson: whether we are in the closet or out, we are in every organization and on every team
at Davidson. We ARE here.
