Second Annual Fall Sports Preview

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXVI, Number 1 Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Sour second half spoils football opener

By SUSAN WILKINS

Despite losing to Lenoir-Rhyne 31-14 on Saturday, Davidson’s football team is “approaching the light at the end of the tunnel,” according to head football coach Vic Gatto.

Led by senior quarterback Steve Bradley’s 213-yard aerial assault, Davidson opened a 14-3 lead at halftime.

Lenoir-Rhyne scored first with a field goal following a forty-three yard drive in the first quarter.

Davidson came back during the second quarter, scoring twice—once on an 18-yard pass from Bradley to junior wide receiver Aaron Edwards and then on a two-yard run by sophomore running back Bryan Overcash. Senior Jack McCollum kicked both extra points.

Unfortunately, the second half was a different story altogether. Lenoir-Rhyne scored once in the third quarter to cut the Cats' lead to 14-10.

Davidson then made their only big mistake in the game, fumbling the ball on their own 23-yard line to set up a Lenoir-Rhyne touchdown at the start of the final quarter. Lenoir-Rhyne then ran roughshod over the Cats, scoring on their next two possessions, and proceeded to win the game 31-14.

Bradley played well for the Wildcats, completing 19 of 39 attempted passes for 211 yards with no interceptions. Freshman quarterback Peter Hughes, whom Gatto calls “quick and exciting,” played briefly, completing three of five for a total of 17 yards.

McCollum also plays at the quarterback position; he led the Wildcats to last season’s win over Wofford.

On the other end of Bradley’s passes were senior running back Mike Jones and Edwards. Jones caught five passes for 51 yards and Edwards caught five for 53 yards. Edwards was also Davidson’s leading rusher, running for 41 yards in five attempts. Beginning what will hopefully be a sterling season for him, freshman Eric Crowley returned three kickoffs for 75 yards.

Playing tough on defense for the Wildcats was junior linebacker Howard Humphries, who had seven unassisted tackles and five assists to lead the team with twelve tackles during the game. Senior Marcus Allen, who played linebacker for Davidson last year, is now playing on the defensive line. He had a total of eight tackles. Senior defensive back Doug Neil and senior strong safety Gary Stewart had nine tackles apiece. Freshman linebacker Ken Nazametz showed promise by pulling down seven Lenoir-Rhyne players.

Another plus for the Wildcats is the fact that they only lost one fumble the entire game. This is a big improvement over last year when Davidson had nine fumbles in a game against James Madison University. Although not happy with the loss, coach Gatto said that “we (Davidson) didn’t play ourselves out of the game.”

Gatto said the loss of junior noseguard Emmanuel Burch (due to academic ineligibility) hurt the team. But the quality of the freshman recruits pleased him. The freshmen this year are his first recruits and many are seeing playing time. Four freshmen start on the defensive line and four played on offense. Although this year may not be a winning one for the Cats, Gatto thinks that with one more good recruiting year, Davidson’s football team could be on its way up.

Davidson’s next home game is this Saturday against the Wofford Terriers. Last season McCollum quarterbacked the Wildcats to a 21-17 win over the Terriers and he will probably start for Davidson this year in hopes that he can again lead the Cats to victory.

Wofford is a strong team and is heavier down the line than Davidson. However, this is not an unusual situation—most teams will be bigger than the Cats. Gatto says that his team is in excellent condition; with only Allen injured (pulled hamstring), the team hopes to repeat its 1985 win over the Terriers.

Davidson starts its Southern Conference schedule the following Saturday (Sept. 27), playing at East Tennessee State. The Wildcats finished above ETSU last year in Southern Conference standings and if they’re going to win any conference games, this will be the one. Their other conference games are against Appalachian State, who was the preseason favorite in the Southern I-AA, Marshall, and Furman, last year’s national runner-up. All of these games are on the road.

Other home games for the Cats are Oct. 11 and 18 against Bucknell and Lafayette. Both of these teams are members of the Colonial League which Davidson will join in 1987. Hopefully, this league will be one in which Davidson can be competitive.

The last game of the season for the Wildcats is on Nov. 15 when Davidson hosts Catawba. These three games could go either way for the Cats, depending on how quickly the freshmen develop.

Although Gatto does not hold high hopes for this season, he does think that with a lot of work, another good recruiting year, and strong crowd support, the football team will be able to compete in the Colonial League.