Lady Cats take first home victory, p.7

The Davidsonian
Volume LXXV, Number 14
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, January 31, 1986

Patterson Court
Return of Kappa Sigma proposed
By KEITH FINCH

A number of freshmen are seeking to re-form the Davidson chapter of the Kappa Sigma fraternity, a national organization which
left the Davidson campus in 1971 when self-selection was instituted. The group hopes to occupy the only remaining empty house
on Patterson Court, the old ATO house.

Henry Nichols, Kappa Sigma District Grand Master, affirmed the fact that there is an interest in Kappa Sigma at Davidson.
He said, “We've had some interest over the years, since 1971 when the chapter at Davidson disbanded — there have
been people who have contacted Kappa Sigma off and on who have expressed interest in reforming the chapter.” He said,
“It’s not something you can just do overnight, it’s a progressive series of steps — so of course it depends
upon whether the college will allow us to come in. So I think it would be a little bit premature
to predict how we’ll do — I think we’ll have to wait until a little bit later in the spring
before we can really say anything.”

Nichols added, “All we've been through at this point is just a first stage to see if there’s much interest
— we've only had one meeting so far, so I'd say we've got a hell of a lot of work
left to do. There were, of course, a fair number of young men at the meeting.” He said, “It may
be as late as the fall before things get put together.”

Todd Young, a freshman involved in the movement to create a Kappa Sigma chapter, said: “We did meet with the
national representative last Thursday [Jan. 23] to discuss our [potential] status as a colony — which is the stage you
pass through before you become a Kappa Sigma chapter. There has to be at least a 90-day waiting period before
you can become a fraternity chapter.” He estimated that there were 53 people at the meeting.

He added that the college has not yet taken a position with respect to Kappa Sigma: “The college has not
given the go-ahead for us to move back on campus. The official OK has to come from the president. If
we were to come back, though, then we would have the old ATO house.” Young said it was conceivable that
Kappa Sigma could come back this year. “They [the national representatives] said that they'd definitely like to see it started
by fall of next year. If everything's going through OK, then we can (continued on page 2)

Senior Gerry Born fights his way up to the hoop Monday night. For more on the game, see page 7.

Inter-Varsity seeks Christian unity on campus
By DAVID WILLIAMS

Since the “death” and “funeral” of the Davidson Christian Fellowship (DCF) two years ago, Davidson has undergone a transition period
in its quest for a new campus-wide Christian fellowship. Today, the Davidson chapter of Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship is striving to
achieve what DCF failed to accomplish in providing a genuine atmosphere for Christians at Davidson to worship and grow in
Christ.

According to Inter-Varsity coordinator Ted Wolfe, “DCF was not meeting the needs of Christians and was an exclusive kind of
fellowship where people didn’t care anything about the whole group.” As a result, the leaders of DCF decided to dissolve
the organization during the spring of 1984 and held a public “funeral” to emphasize its “death.”

In the fall of 1984, former members of DCF decided to create a new campus fellowship. The Unknown Fellowship (TUF),
as the group was eventually named, “was supposed to pick up where DCF left off,” Wolfe said. “Its purpose was
to get rid of the stereotype of being close-minded and exclusive.” TUF was the mainstay of Christian fellowship at Davidson
for the full 1984-85school year. However, “as time went on, the leaders of TUF felt they had the opportunity to
join with a major national organization, which would give us more stability, continuity, and the assistance we needed,” Wolfe said.
“There were many who wanted to join a national organization. It ended up, as an entire fellowship, that we would
join Inter-Varsity.” The Unknown fellowship was dissolved, and its leaders formed a new Davidson chapter of Inter-Varsity in the spring
of 1985. Senior coordinator Karl Lorenz said: “Inter-Varsity, as an organization, has goals that we wanted to identify with. Out
of the knowledge that the person of Christ is revealed in scripture, Inter-Varsity came up with other goals, such as
encouraging each other to grow in obedience to God. Part of that growth is responsibility to the world.”

The Davidson chapter of Inter-Varsity still coordinates many of the functions of DCF and TUF, such as large group fellowship
on Friday night and small group meetings throughout the week. The chapter activities are still almost completely planned and carried
out by six student coordinators elected by the entire fellowship. Yet several important aspects of the fellowship have changed dramatically.
Roger Edwards, a Charlotte staff member of the national Inter-Varsity organization, now advises the coordinators and meets regularly with individual
students. Second, “The fellowship has a constitution and a whole set-up for doing things, so that from year to year
the coordinators don’t have to make up a new scheme,” Wolfe said. Finally, according to Lorenz, Inter-Varsity has a new
goal as a Davidson fellowship: “To foster unity among Christians on campus and out of that to reach out to
others on campus.”

Inter-Varsity also strives to serve the community through its ongoing urban ministry and its sponsorship of awareness days in the
fall and spring. “As part of the urban ministry, some people have gone into Charlotte to work with groups such
as the Crisis Assistance Ministry,” Lorenz said. Inter-Varsity also sends volunteers to the inner city of Charlotte through the Step
Program and the Day Shelter. Lorenz added: “Awareness Day, which will be Feb. 8 this year, provides a grasp on
our responsibilities as disciples of Jesus to the rest of the world and to the local poor.”

Wolfe emphasized the accessibility of Inter-Varsity to all students on campus: “Inter-Varsity is such an open thing. This is an
image we would like to get across. We are a Christian fellowship, but everyone is welcome. It’s the type of
thing where people don't have to feel part of the group. They can leave early and come late.” Commenting on
the success of Inter-Varsity at Davidson in its first year, junior member Lisa Majoros said: “Inter-Varsity has been much more
ecumenical. Many students were burned out on DCF, seeing Inter-Varsity as something more comfortable.” She added: “Inter-Varsity has been more
of a Christian fellowship than before. It offers more cohesiveness and a more stable framework. Yet there is always room
to grow, and Inter-Varsity is always open to criticism.”

Wolfe echoed these sentiments: “I think and hope that we are perceived differently. It seems like we have more people
coming than before. I don't think of success in terms of numbers, but in being able to focus our eyes
on God, rather than meeting some image.” He added: “We want to reach out to campus as friends and really
love people. That's one of the things we decided last spring.” Lorenz added: “I have been really encouraged by what
has happened this year. Sure, there are things that disappoint me, but I have been encouraged by a lot—by the
growth in individual people's lives, by seeing people challenged to follow Christ, and by the amount of unity I see
on campus among Christians in general.”

The Davidson chapter of Inter-Varsity holds its large group meetings at 7 p.m. every Friday in the Big Screen Room
of the Grey Student Union.
