winning combination
By PERRY MATHEWES

Last Sunday night the Davidson soccer squad returned home with a 2-1 win over VMI to their credit. This raises
the team’s record to 2-7-1 for the year. The Wildcats dominated the Keydets for most of the game. However, they
did not finish well. A lot of good chances ended in bad shots. The rough, short field did not yield
great play as the team adjusted to the poor conditions. “I’m pleased with the way we reacted to the conditions,”
said coach Charlie Slagle.

Davidson opened the score about fifteen minutes into the first half. A long kick by junior goalkeeper Josh Budde caught
the VMI defense too far forward and the Wildcat attackers took advantage. Profiting from a 3-on-1 situation, sophomore forward Tracy
Hankins put the ball home. About 15 minutes into the second half, Davidson scored a second time. Sophomore forward Mike
Friedlander volleyed a cross that dribbled into the goal off of a defender’s leg. VMI narrowed the margin by scoring
on a free kick with about three minutes left in the game. However, they never threatened to equalize in the
closing minutes.

“We played well until the final third of the game,” junior midfielder Steve Ott said. “We rushed a lot of
our shots.”

Slagle is pleased with the players' present work rate. He noted that the team has worked hard during the last
few practices in preparation for the games this week. He also commented that the team is much more unified. Davidson
travels to Atlanta to take on Georgia State, another top team, tomorrow. Then on Monday at 3:30 p.m. the team
hosts Erskine, who is ranked 19th in the NAIA. Slagle noted that the players must earn the initial break. “These
are teams we should play with,” he said. “If something starts going our way, then a lot of things could
go our way!”

By SUSAN WILKINS

Davidson’s women’s volleyball team broke out of its slump Tuesday night to give the Wildcats their second win of the
season. Although the Lady Cats’ record is not a winning one, coach Sue Hayes feels that with the development of
a “killer instinct” the team will win.

Saturday the Cats played two conference games; one against Marshall, the other against Western Carolina. Both matches were best of
five series. Davidson lost the first series to Western Carolina. In each game, the Wildcats improved and in the final
game gave Western Carolina a tough time. The series with Marshall showed Hayes that the volleyball team has guts. She
was pleased with their more consistent serving and the enthusiastic play of sophomore Molly Cochran and junior Beth Elder. In
losing to Marshall 15-7, 15-8, 15-9, the Cats lost more than the series. Unfortunately, senior Bonnie Bolton, freshman Kathy MacDonald,
and freshman Peggy Tiegten all sustained ankle injuries. Luckily for the Lady Cats, Bolton and Tiegten are expected to be
back in action for next Tuesday’s games.

Monday, the Wildcats traveled to Wingate and returned home with another loss. Wingate beat Davidson 15-2, 15-10, and 15-9. Despite
losing, the Cats played well. Their passing improved and the Lady Cats were more consistent in returning serve. Tuesday night
showed the home crowd that the volleyball team is not just another losing Davidson sports team. The Wildcats played two
exciting matches — the first against Gardner-Webb, the second against Belmont Abbey. In their first game versus Gardner-Webb, the Wildcats
went up 9-0. The game looked to be a sure win. Then Gardner-Webb remembered how to serve and the game
became exciting. Both teams volleyed well and there were many long points.

The Davidsonian
Friday, October 3, 1986

Craig Mattison fights for the ball against Belmont Abbey.a five-second call and lost serve. Unfortunately, this reversal caused the Cats
to lose momentum and they lost the game 15-12. The momentum shift carried over into the next game and by
the time the Wildcats got back into the game, the score was 12-0. The team rallied behind sophomore Maria Douglas’
enthusiasm, but their effort was not enough and Davidson lost 15-5.

The Cats’ second match of the night pitted them against Belmont Abbey, a team that Davidson had beaten before. Davidson
dominated the best-of-five series. The Cats started out with a 15-2 loss. In the second game, consistent serving and powerful
hitting helped the Lady Cats to win 15-8. Enthusiasm over their win then spilled over into the third game, which
Davidson won 15-10 after a hard battle.

The volleyball team has changed to a five-one offense in order to have three hitters on the front line. Hopefully,
this will make the team more versatile and powerful. They have also switched serving receptions. Disaster struck when Gardner-Webb's coach
was talking to her players, shifting their positions, and neither referee stopped play. Because Davidson was confused, they lost both
games 5-15. Playing well were Elder, Douglas, and Cochran.

On Wednesday, the Wildcats traveled to Salem College and proceeded to win again.

First goals highlight field hockey week
By PAM HARMANN

The Davidson field hockey team moved in a positive direction, scoring two goals this week. Although they lost to Catawba
4-1 and to Appalachian State 3-1, the fact that they scored is a big step. The scoring block the offense
was experiencing has finally been overcome.

On Saturday, Sept. 27, the team traveled to Catawba. Catawba scored all four of their goals in the first half.
Davidson came back in the second half and dominated, scoring a goal in the process. Senior captain Heather McKee scored
the goal on a short corner penalty.

Tuesday, Davidson made the long trek to A.S.U. This was possibly one of the best games they have played yet
this season. Sophomore forward Suzanne Mauze scored in the first half as the ball rebounded off the goalie’s pads from
one of McKee’s short corner hits. Describing the game, McKee stated, “Our offense played much better against a very strong
Appalachian defense.”

Coach Betsey Pryor felt the spacing of the team and their communication among themselves was much better during this game.
Unfortunately, after entering the second half tied 1-1, A.S.U. was awarded a penalty stroke on a Davidson defensive error. They
scored again at the end of the game when the defense let down for a moment.

Coach Pryor feels the defense is improving with experience, although they still rely a bit too much on the goalie,
senior Nana Lay, and the sweeper, McKee. Pryor said the team is becoming more aggressive and marking better in the
circle, but when they let up, the other team scores. Coach Pryor explained that the offense is starting to work
together as well. As with the defense, it is a matter of experience: the more they play together, the better
they will be. Having basically the same starting line-up twice in a row helps, too.

The team is still hampered with injuries. Junior Mandy Barrett describes the team: “I see that with a lot of
new players, many of whom have come from high school ball, it has taken us time to get the hang
of college ball. But with each game, there has been definite improvement.” Looking ahead, Pryor is “hoping to come back
and surprise opponents the second time we play them.”

The game scheduled for Oct. 2 was canceled due to a difficulty in obtaining referees. The team travels to Pfeiffer
tomorrow to play the University of the South. The Lady Cats’ next home game is against Furman on Wednesday at
6:30 pm. The Cats will be looking for their first Southern Conference victory.
