The Davidsonian
Friday, October 10, 1986

Old story line makes good in “Gallipoli”
By MARK CHEN

“Gallipoli” is an old story that has been told many times. Young boys grow up, see the army recruitment posters,
and sign up for the war. They go off, have a good time in boot camp, and then are sent
to the front. They do not like what they see, but they do not get to see it for very
long after they get the order to go “over the top.” “Gallipoli” adds very little that is new to this
plot, yet it keeps the moviegoer watching. The plot may be old, but it is still worthwhile to watch the
tragedy played out again. Perhaps the most horrible yet fascinating aspect of this movie is watching happy and decent people
go into oblivion. The movie is like an accident unfolding in slow motion.

The first frame shows a runner getting ready to sprint. An old man is coaching him and checking his time.
The young man is Archy, played by Mark Lee. He is eighteen years old and training for a race in
town. His life has been spent in the Australian outback working on his father’s ranch. He wins the race but
this glory is not enough when a military parade marches by. So without the blessings of dear papa, Archy runs
off to join the army. The year is 1915 and this army is going off to fight the Turks.

Frank Dunne, played by Mel Gibson, is a cocky young man who wants no part of a war. He is
also down on his luck and without cash, so Frank and Archy team up for a trek through the deserts.
Frank ends up joining anyway in order to impress the ladies. They are then sent off to boot camp in
Egypt. There the war becomes one glorious holiday in a foreign land. They enjoy the camaraderie, the rivalry of regiment
versus regiment, and the unholy joy of being on their own without many restraints. Boot camp is a lot like
the fraternity scene. They shoot, march, and go through “battle maneuvers” which do not seem too bad. The war is

Out and About
By JESSICA FISHER and DIANA MILLER

With Homecoming just around the corner, many of you may be anticipating a weekend of bacchanalian activities which, although fun,
may have the potential of not only shackling you to your date for the weekend, but also chaining you to
Davidson campus. Art gallery openings today and the JazzCharlotte festival tomorrow and Sunday will provide an excellent opportunity to pursue
off-campus entertainment in the Uptown Charlotte area.

Saturday’s events will be an All-Stars performance at noon which will feature talents including Don Eisamar, Willie Gillon, Don McClure,
Loonis McGlohon, and others. At 1:00 p.m. “A Tribute to Bessie Smith” will take place spotlighting such artists as singer
Carrie Smith and jazz pianist and composer Hank Jones. The acclaimed blues artist, guitarist, and band leader Taj Mahal will
perform at 2:30 p.m. At 5:00 p.m. be sure not to miss the Preservation Hall Jazz Band which performed last
winter at Davidson.

Tonight’s Uptown Galleries Opening will take place from 6-8 p.m. Participating galleries include: Discovery Place Gallery exhibiting “Art of the
Eye,” Hodges Taylor Gallery exhibiting “Recent Works by Pamela DeLora,” Light Factory Gallery at Spirit Square exhibiting “Images of an
Icon,” Limbo Gallery exhibiting “Oil Paintings on Canvas and Paper” by artist Ruth Ave Lyons, Gerald Melberg Gallery exhibiting “Picasso
in Charlotte,” Deborah Peverall Gallery exhibiting Raymond Chorneau: “Recent Drawings,” and Spirit Square Tunnel and Seventh Street galleries exhibiting “Sixth
Biennial North/South Carolina Fiber Competition.” These shows display a variety of artistic styles which should accommodate most individual tastes. Additional
incentive to attend Uptown Galleries Openings is the free admission and the hors d'oeuvres, wine, and alternative beverages the hosting
galleries will provide. The Hodges Taylor Gallery will also feature music by the jazz ensemble Elements from 6:30 to 8:30
p.m. which will add another aesthetically pleasing dimension to their exhibition.

If you are unable to attend Friday’s uptown activities, you have another chance for a cultural turbo boost. JazzCharlotte, Charlotte’s
premier jazz festival, will take place tomorrow and Sunday. An assortment of jazz, blues, and gospel entertainment will be performed
by international, national, and localtalents. The performances will take place in the Uptown area during the afternoons and evenings. The
opening ceremony will take place at 11:45 a.m. at Fourth Ward Park. Among the highlights, Sunday’s festivities will begin with
a noon performance by the Willie Gillon Orchestra. Another highlight of the day will be “Celtic Man” at 1:00 p.m.,
which features Herbie Mann, a jazz flutist, performing a unique blend of jazz and Irish folk music. At 2:15 p.m.,
the Jimmy Smith Trio will play a jazz organ music program, and at 5:00 p.m., the Clara Ward Singers will
sing gospel music. All of the above will be performed at Fourth Ward. These artists are only a few of
the talents which will be featured at JazzCharlotte. If you are interested in a complete calendar of events and a
handy map of the Uptown Charlotte area where both the JazzCharlotte events on Saturday and Sunday will occur, please refer
to the JazzCharlotte advertising section in the Tuesday, Oct. 7 edition of the Charlotte Commons.

The movie was directed by Peter Weir, an Australian director who has already made a name for himself outside of
his homeland. He directs this movie in a quiet, dreamy way. There are no graphic scenes of battlefield violence or
heroics, so that the war itself comes on as an anticlimax. Instead, his camera lingers over landscapes of great beauty,
such as the wastelands of Australia or the mountain of fire and smoke at Gallipoli. Human beings often appear small
and helpless. There are few tricks or sudden camera angles in this movie, yet Weir has a definite style which
is quiet and unassuming. This style builds and grows in impact up to the final scene.

The cast itself helps toward the meaning of the movie. There are no “grand” performances or tragic monologues, no lengthy
debates or angry cries. Instead, each of the actors performs a role of a very normal and all-too-human person. Lee
is convincing as the naive yet eager recruit, who does not really understand the nature of what he wants. The
others in the cast do well in their smaller roles. Gibson has the most understated yet most important role of
all. He has no special wisdom and delivers none, save that the war is not for him. He plays the
sane man in this war, the one who does not want to be shot at but is stuck anyway. He
is the strong man who is rendered helpless by the war. Gibson does well in this role as a symbol
of all the ordinary people trapped by circumstances.

“Gallipoli” has nothing new to say but has much which needs to be heard. It is a quiet movie which
does not overwhelm the moviegoer but haunts him or her after the last frame is done. That haunting moment is
the final purpose of this movie on war. “Gallipoli” will be shown on Saturday at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Alex Hayden
