Friday, September 26, 1986  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Transfer students come for different reasons

By NELLE McCORKLE

Sixteen transfer students chose Davidson for varied reasons.

Academics attracted Bill Madden, who praised “Davidson’s commitment to liberal arts, reputation for excellence.” Madden, of Elberton, GA, transferred from Young Harris College. “I already love it here. I want my family to move on campus,” he said.

Ken Fulp wanted a “small, intimate school of excellent academics” with “proximity to a large city offering a variety in culture and education.” Fulp served in the Navy and attended Hagerstown Junior College and Florida Junior College before coming to Davidson; he lives in Panama City, FL. He called it “very easy to establish a rapport with both students and faculty alike.”

Although he claimed to have transferred from the University of Florida to take “advantage of the great social life at Davidson,” after two weeks of classes, Matt Merrell instead noted Davidson’s “great studying atmosphere.” Merrell, of Ormond Beach, FL, called the college “small and hard,” with an “incredibly talented teaching staff.”

John Young, Jr. of Greensboro admitted he chose Davidson for “academics, but it sure wasn’t for the male-female ratio.” Young transferred from the University of North Carolina at Greensboro, where his father, former Davidson philosophy professor John Young, now teaches.

Alumni involvement aided both Jocelyn Smith and Cinda Isley in the decision. Smith lives in Boston, MA, but is originally from Charlotte and attended Queens College. “Many of my family members have attended Davidson and I became interested through them,” she said. Smith’s mother, Carol Walker Jordan, works at Davidson as Careers Office assistant director.

Along with “alumni support and influence,” Isley called “teacher/student interaction, small school atmosphere, and strong reputation” decisive factors in her coming to Davidson. Isley, of Raleigh, left North Carolina State University when she changed her major from zoology in a pre-veterinary program to political science. “The people at Davidson are very warm and friendly and go out of their way to make me feel at home,” Isley said.

Geography influenced Sara Barton, Jeff Petry, and Jimmy Rumple. Barton, of Atlanta, left Swarthmore College to return “closer to home.” “Excellent reputation and weather” convinced Petry to transfer from Jamestown Community College in his hometown of Jamestown, NY. Rumple, a married Troutman resident who formerly attended Mitchell Community College said, “I chose to come to Davidson because I needed to commute, and I felt it was the best school in the area. I like the atmosphere and the friendly, helpful people when I visited. I was impressed with the emphasis on a varied liberal arts curriculum.”

Davidson’s size appealed to Barton and to John Fisher of Whiteville, NC, who attended North Carolina State University last year. According to Barton, “people are extremely friendly. Classes are hard but interesting.”

Six of the 16 transfer students enrolled as juniors; the remaining 10 entered Davidson as sophomores or freshmen lacking only a few credits to become juniors. Each woman transfer received dormitory housing and a roommate already enrolled at Davidson; none of the transfer men lives in campus housing. For the first time this year, Assistant Dean of Students Harriette Root linked each transferring man to a specific residence hall. “The idea is to get them (the transfer men) more involved, especially with upperclassmen, since the males are off-campus,” Resident Advisor Todd Wallenius of Belk basement said. Wallenius said transfer men will attend hall meetings and hall-sponsored social events.

Other transfer students are Ted Bowling of Troy, AL from Marion Military Institute; Becky Castleman of Louisville, KY from the University of Virginia; Doris Davis of Houston, TX from Vanderbilt University; Zoe Anne Henderson of Southern Pines, NC from Hollins College; Leigh McCoy of Greensboro, NC from St. Mary’s College; and Tyler Smith of Oklahoma City, OK from the University of Oklahoma.