Who's on first?

Some sports events that ought to happen

By ANDY BARRON

Recently I have seen some pretty strange things in the world of sports. For instance, the other night on television I saw a replay of a horse race in which the winning horse had thrown its rider. How often do you see a college basketball game canceled due to one team having chicken pox? Louisiana State postponed its game with Auburn last weekend for just that very reason.

Anyone who happened to catch the pre-game show on NBC to the Miami-New England AFC Championship game saw one of the most bizarre incidents ever in the world of sports. In the Patriots’ last playoff win, which came in the old AFL playoffs over the Dallas Texans back in the sixties, Dallas was losing by a few points and had the ball on the Patriots’ three-yard line. As both teams lined up for the game’s crucial last play, a Patriot fan snuck up behind the New England defensive line and crouched into a linebacker’s stance. Dallas ran a roll-out to the left and threw to the tight end breaking into the end zone only to have the fan play the pass perfectly and swat the ball into the ground. The fan then raced off the field and the Patriots won. Talk about solid fan support.

With those things in mind, here are some things I'd like to see happen in sports.

The Chicago Bears ran away with the Super Bowl title this year. However, I seriously doubt the Bears will be able to repeat as champions without defensive coordinator Buddy Ryan who has been hired by Philadelphia as head coach next year. I wonder how strong Chicago’s defense will be next year without Ryan.

I'd like to see John McEnroe stop complaining and start playing some good tennis. Pro tennis isn’t any fun without Mac.

I'd love to see North Carolina lose to anyone in basketball. If the Tar Heels have to win, I’d at least like to see Kenny Smith miss one of his obligatory late-game, breakaway slams.

I'd like to see the NASCAR schedule cut in half to save fuel, cut down on noise, and generally improve America as we know it.

I'd like to see someone either hit 62 home runs, bat .400 or at least seriously threaten to do one or the other this baseball season. Preferably, it will be Steve Balboni and George Brett who do this for me.

The NBA has an elite triumvirate of the 76’ers, Celtics, and Lakers. Just once I'd like to see someone else win the NBA title.

Speaking of the NBA, Manute Bol, the 7-6 Sudanese wonder-child of the league, blocked 15 shots in a game the other week. Now if he could only score that many points a game, Washington would have something.

I'd love to see the World Cup Soccer Championships on television here in the USA this summer. Since it’s the world’s premier sporting event, why can’t ESPN have a broadcasting bonanza and show us the whole thing?

How about if some NFL team comes out with a special defense to stop the Bears’ offense called the Fork Defense? It should work on Jim McMahon.

I used to think I'd never see anyone pole vault 20 feet. Now I’m sure it’s only a matter of time. The question is, can an American be the first 20-foot vaulter?

More than anything else, I’d like to see someone mess up Steve Hale’s hair in a game. I don’t think the guy’s hair has moved in years.

Finally, I'd like to see more Davidson students in the stands of Johnston Gym before the national anthem at basketball games. Three of the most rousing moments in a basketball game are when the home team comes out of the locker room to warm up, the introduction of the starting line-ups, and the opening tip. Most students seem to feel these are unimportant parts of the game and show up fashionably late after about five minutes of the game have been played. Come on folks, let’s show the team some real support and show up on time.

Wrestlers place fifth

By KEITH FINCH

The Davidson wrestlers traveled to Washington & Lee University this weekend and attained fifth place in a field of seven teams at the W&L invitational tournament. Of 11 Davidson team members, five placed in their respective weight classes.

Junior Gary Branch made it to the final round to take second place in the heavyweight division. Junior J.T. Lay and freshman Sherb Sentell placed third in the 150-pound and 158-pound classes, while senior Don Stovall and sophomore Tim Heinze took fourth place in the 167- and 177-pound divisions, respectively. The Wildcats’ lighter wrestlers did not fare very well; junior Mike Adams at 118 pounds, freshman Rufus Timberlake at 126 pounds, and freshman Mark Harris at 134 pounds were defeated twice and eliminated from the competition.

Davidson had greater successes in the middle weights. Sophomore Bill Breidenstine defeated a contender from Furman in an overtime match but lost two close decisions, 3-2 and 5-3, to opponents from Elon College. Davidson had two entries at 150 pounds, Lay and Taylor Simpson, who met each other in the consolation bracket after each had lost a match; Lay pinned Simpson in :55, eliminating him from the competition.

At 190 pounds senior Griff Elder was twice defeated (and thus eliminated) early in the tournament.

First Union National Bank

P.O. Box 39

Davidson

Huntersville

Cornelius