86 THE DAVIDSONIAN - Paul Cosmos

Autumn Chill

Dancing tamelessly beneath an icy night sky
a blackness blessed with a brilliant Hunter’s moon
(sliced viciously clear by a new-struck blade)
its star comrades flung carelessly about:
(a shattered goblet thrown in anger through crystalline tears)

Fall Kitsch
part one in a new series by Stan Armistead '88

Night fell outside the Mann mansion as the butler walked about closing the windows and locking the doors against the cool fall air. When all was secure, he went to the kitchen but was stopped by the bright lights. The kitchen was in an uproar. The chef was shouting, assistants were arguing, and maidservants rushed about. Sabrina, a young and beautiful maid, rushed out of the pantry and collided with the blinded butler. His red, half-closed eyes made her shudder.

Two nights earlier, she had stepped out of her room scarcely clothed. She wanted to pass unnoticed down the hallway and into the guest room where she frequently bathed. She slipped out of her room, but as she tiptoed down the hall she heard a strange sound. She turned with fright. The butler was watching her! Sabrina had only a small towel with her. She held it against herself but it covered her inadequately. It ended a short distance down her thighs and from behind she was completely revealed. Her hair was drawn up and tied with a small, red ribbon. She pressed back against a door and bent her eyebrows defiantly.

“My, my,” snickered the butler, “don’t take offense, it's only me.”

“Leave!” she said sharply.

“I mean no harm,” he said lowering his smiling head, “I will go.”

In the kitchen, Sabrina eyed him with disdain as he gave her that same condescending smile. She whispered an insult as she passed by. Sabrina filled her teapot at the stove. Soon she would see Robert. How she relished his presence. He was different from most men, like an exotic flower in a bed of geraniums. She sometimes heard him arguing loudly in his study. Books would fall, glass would break, and after over an hour of activity he would emerge completely soaked in sweat. He would walk off but no one followed him. He had been alone. Sabrina understood Robert. She imagined that he lived in his own special world. Her world had disillusioned him long ago; it was inconsistent and tedious. He had found that its objects, events, and circumstances could exist in their pure and ideal form inside his mind. With some practice, he had learned how to manipulate them to create anything he wanted. Natural events, human drama, any real-world scenario could be played out in full in his mind. In business and social affairs, he had the advantage. He could think through an upcoming meeting or event and know beforehand how it would develop and the nature of each variable. He would prepare manipulative strategies in detail, and when the event occurred, he always got what he wanted. Sabrina enjoyed working for Robert. When she went shopping downtown...People would ask about him. “What’s he doing? Who is he seeing?” The people tried to appear indifferent to her answers, but when she began they would thrust their heads forward to catch every word. On the most pompous, Sabrina showed no mercy. She would begin and then stop, pretending to be thinking. Their lowered pride chewed at them, but their curiosity kept their stiff necks bent and their mouths gaping. For that brief moment, before they exploded with indignation, Sabrina felt powerful. They were her servants and she their queen from whom they courted favor. Robert sat behind her in royal silence, her king, her husband, her lover! The image faded quickly but the feeling was real.

Robert’s tea was ready. He sat quietly in his study waiting for her. Sabrina took the tray in her arms, walked past the counter, past the cooks and the butler, and pushed through the door. The air was cool, and her very heart beat wildly.

Because seashells are too fragile, beaten senseless by thoughtless thundering waves. Because I am too trusting, bruised, bloodied by swindling words of passion and egos that lie unflinchingly. Hold me, The Water Carrier, for my shoulders tremble, and my feet are cold. You disturb my thoughts and my normal equilibrium. Life rushes from within, not from without. There is no work of art so big or so beautiful that it was not all once contained in some youthful body. With your suggestive sentences and your intransitive verbs! You rob me of my precious hours of sleep and rest. Your actions puzzle me. Your acumen interests me. As Shakespeare’s apothegm rings.

Again, I want to personally thank everyone who submitted things this week. But what I really want to do is to ask all our readers, how many times have you said to yourself, “Gee, I'd really like to do something creative but I'm just not the type,” or better yet, “I will just as soon as I have the time." How long will you say this to yourself? Art is not talent (which rules out that excuse) but rather it is practice and habit. Art is not a given, it is the intertwining of individual thoughts and experiences towards the achievement of the goal of extraordinary communication. Unless you want to consign yourself to the grim security of a nine to five mindset, you can ignore this. But the very fact that you are here at a liberal arts college means that you are different. Take the time now to learn the habits of communication in your youth and you will never mourn the passage of that time. If you put it off it will always remain on your “If Only I Had...” list.

Suman Kudra

Next deadline is Wednesday, Nov. 6

Alex Hayden

International Student, India