4

Friday, October 31, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Hunger, Nosferatu scare at movie fest.

By JOHN GILLIKIN
Our generation has seen the demise of the horror film; true horror has become, unfortunately, the most abused and misunderstood
medium in cinematic art. It is either revoltingly misrepresented through the gruesome guise of the “slasher” film or it is
so poorly directed that it inevitably becomes a parody of itself. The Hunger, however, is a powerfully disturbing yet discretely
directed piece of cinematic horror, which reassures the connoisseur that the true fright film still exists.

The movie begins with David Bowie dying of an unusual disease which deprives the body of sleep and ages the
tissue cells at a preternatural rate. Within days Bowie, originally a man 30 years old, becomes withered and twisted with
extreme old age. Catherine Deneuve is Bowie’s wife and the film’s femme fatale. She is actually an ancient Egyptian queen
who has remained young for hundreds of years through sorcery and cannibalism. Apparently, the two shared a pact throughout the
ages, yet Bowie ultimately dies, succumbing to the bizarre aging disease.

The Hunger does not depend on frequent or graphic violence for its frightening power; the images which shock are dark
and erotically bizarre. They are disturbing through implication, yet will linger long in one’s mind. The mood of the film
is intense and unsettling; the use of light and shadow contrasts as well as varying cinematic speeds produce in the
film a surreal, symbolic atmosphere. Though he is a well-worn touchstone, Hitchcock is the most obvious comparison. Like a Hitchcock
thriller, The Hunger allows the monsters of our imagination to create the fear.

This is not a film for those who seek only prettiness, convention, and resolution in a film. The Hunger is
a brilliant film, but neither conventional nor pretty. It is darkly sensual and unusual. It will rivet you and unsettle
you; but if well-done horror is to your taste, it will fascinate and delight you.

Because this is a somewhat different film from what the modern movie audience may be accustomed to, one must critically
approach Nosferatu from a somewhat different angle. Nosferatu is the original cinematic interpretation of the Dracula story. This is the
silent 1921 version, and so may seem unusual to those not acquainted with movies from the silent era. Yet this
should not prevent one from discerning its quality. Nosferatu should be viewed with the awareness of its historicity and significance.
It is the first real vampire film and, except for possibly The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari, the most eerily effective
of the early German expressionist films.

The black and white film is often considered inferior to cinema shown in color, yet I contend that when the
atmosphere is somber or unusual and the mood macabre and dark, color somehow weakens the willing suspension of disbelief. Nosferatu’s
horror results indirectly from this mood, yet directly from the evil protagonist himself.

Nosferatu is a classic cinematic fiend. His body is hideously emaciated and his pallor a sickening paste-color. His eyes distend
grotesquely from their sockets, threatening to fall from a face that has no skin. Yet the most frightening aspect of
the vampire is his hands. Obscenely large, they are like fat white spiders threatening to suck the life from the
living.

Nosferatu is a fine movie, yet one may become anxious watching a full 90 minutes of a silent film. I
must admit that I did not view the movie in complete silence; I played Pink Floyd’s “The Wall” for background
music, which was powerfully conducive.
