Friday, May 9, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN 13

Student-professor interaction not missing

Marianthe Colakis

I would like to offer a few thoughts from the other side of the lectern in response to “Wasted evenings are the best kind of education” by William Naso. I agree with him that forming friendships is as important a part of college life as acquiring book knowledge, and that dialogue is superior to the lecture as a method of teaching. But I am disturbed by the contrast he poses: over here, the class with a traditional lecture format, where nothing of importance takes place between apathetic students and dogmatic professors; over there, the out-of-classroom discussion alive with the exchange of ideas.

I know that such professors as he describes exist: those whose “teaching” consists of leading the students to their own point of view. I have had them myself; I remember particularly one I had in graduate school that the students dubbed “Boredom Williams” (his first name was Gordon). But most other professors do not decide at some point that they now have “the answer” and no further discussion is needed. Even in my own field, where a mutilated papyrus scrap with five lines of verse is hailed as a major discovery, scholars are constantly alert for new work promising fresh insights. The footnotes in this work (always read those footnotes!) will often credit students for ideas. I will always remember the insights that emerged from a discussion on the meaning of these lines in the Greek poet Karyotakis: “death is the women who make love/ As if they were peeling onions.” I had thought of “peeling onions” only as a metaphor for a boring household chore; I hadn’t considered the implications of the fact that onions make you cry.

If professors seem excessively fond of their own opinions, the reason is usually that they have invested more time and thought in the subject than most students. I certainly believe that everyone can learn from everyone else. Here, in no particular order, are some subjects on which I have learned things from students: English folk tales, real estate investments, neuromuscular disorders, prayer yarn, underwater treasure hunting, local ghost stories, Hieronymus Bosch, and monastic Buddhism. But I’m elitist enough to believe that certain people have more to offer others on certain subjects. If a professor relinquishes all claim to be a guide in his or her area of expertise, I doubt that students will be happier.

In an article titled “Depression in the Seminary,” Henri Nouwen writes, “It might even be possible that many forms of liberalization... are felt by the students to be testimony of the incapacity to offer meaningful structures on the side of the staff. Many seminarians, who have participated in year-long discussions on about every possible basic subject, are showing signs of fatigue, disappointment, and even hostility. Some even feel cheated, as if they had wasted their time groping with questions which don’t lead anywhere and are doomed to create frustration.” While professors should not be authoritarian, they should be authoritative.

I would also suggest that possible answers to the “important questions” Mr. Naso mentions are more likely to be answered in the classroom or by professors outside the classroom than by students among themselves alone. I don’t expect many in-depth discussions to take place at parties with loud music and abundant liquor, but I leave consideration of this matter to those who have attended more campus parties than I have. I will only point out that discussions among sober students unhampered by music have pitfalls of their own. In most of my conversations with fellow students in my own school days, the participants didn’t seem particularly interested in understanding others’ points of view or helping them clarify it; they were chiefly concerned with formulating and expressing their own views. Once again, the guidance of someone would have been welcome.

Educators themselves are aware of the need to provide something other than content of knowledge; practically every college's statement of purpose contains some reference to values that the college hopes to foster. Various methods have recently emerged for inquiring into and developing students’ values — not indoctrinating them into a particular set of values, but helping them understand what they truly believe. Obviously, it’s unrealistic to expect the eternal questions to be answered in, for example, a course in Beginning Spanish or Organic Chemistry. But courses that address ethical problems — particularly in law, medicine, and business — are being created that did not exist ten years ago. For more information on this, please see Richard L. Morrill’s Teaching Values in College.

But it’s a mistake to dismiss the learning of “facts” as useless in searching for answers. Ever since the sixties, teachers have been emphasizing “ideas” above all else, with the result that students acquire very firm opinions often based on flimsy or inaccurate knowledge. I mentioned at the outset that I agree with Mr. Naso on the advantages of the Socratic method. Yet Socrates practiced it principally within a very small circle of upper-class young men; to adopt it universally at Davidson would necessitate cutting at least two-thirds of the student body. Even if this were feasible, we would require students to take a highly active role in their own learning. I believe many at Davidson are willing to take such a role, but many others are not. I have heard students complain that classes don’t have enough discussion; I have also heard professors complain that students are too passive and it’s impossible to engender any discussion among them. Can't someone find a way to bring all of these discussion-cravers together?

Who are the students who derive the least from the Socratic method in the classroom? Usually, they are the ones who were too busy partying the night before — in the name of healthy social development, of course — to prepare the day's assignment. These students would not respond if Socrates himself tried to instruct them. We see the results of aLong night with much wine at the end of Plato's Symposium: “There remained only Socrates, Aristophanes, and Agathon, who were drinking out of a large goblet which they passed around, and Socrates was discoursing to them. Aristodemus was only half awake, and he did not hear the beginning of the discourse. The chief thing which he remembered was Socrates compelling the other two to acknowledge that the genius of comedy was the same as that of tragedy, and that the true artist in tragedy was an artist in comedy also. To this, they were constrained to assent, being drowsy and not quite following the argument. And first of all Aristophanes dropped off, then, when the day was already dawning, Agathon.”

Believe it or not, professors too can become frustrated by the limitations of the lecture format and welcome opportunities for more spontaneous contact with students. I can't speak for all professors, but I'm either in my office or in the library most afternoons. I'll have a dialogue with anyone who seeks me out.

Colakis is an assistant professor of classics.

Athletic department should reconsider football policy
Coleen Bairas

Whatever possessed Kit Morris to stand in front of an open discussion to discuss Davidson’s athletic program is an enigma to me. It undeniably took guts. He knew, and admitted that he knew, before he stepped into the Big Screen Room Monday night that the meeting wouldn't be a pleasure, just as he knew that taking the job as Davidson’s Athletic Director 16 months ago would not be easy. The meeting wasn’t, and the job isn’t.

There were two major issues Morris was expected to address: 1) Davidson’s “un-status” regarding a conference and 2) the recent overhaul of the women’s athletic program. He sort of addressed both. For the unaware reader, Davidson has most grievously offended the Southern Conference with a pompous snub, and they are not very keen on the idea of letting us join their ranks again. Morris intends on moving football to the Colonial League, and the other sports into the Colonial Athletic Association. However, the CAA is a stable league, and the addition of an “odd” team is not favorable to them. Also, most of the Colonial teams are schools of rather distant geography — Lehigh, Cornell, and assorted Ivy Leagues. Right now we are no more than a lost sheep, and even if we are found, the grazing land available isn’t all that fantastic.

In addressing women’s sports, I am sure that some people are unhappy. However, only one person, a non-student, was present who decried the lowering of the female basketball team to the club sport level. I agree with Morris on his changes in women’s sports, even the desperation-organization of a women’s golf team (which looks promising) and the already established club women’s volleyball gaining varsity status. The most annoying aspect of Morris’ treatment of the women’s program was his shunning of the question regarding the fund allocation percentages split between men’s and women’s sports. He said he didn't know the information off-hand. The guy asking the question persisted, asking if he could just give a breakdown rounded off in tens, like a 60 percent/40 percent or so. Morris said he couldn’t. His inability to answer the question was either gross neglect on his part, or his hidden refusal to answer it, because of his distaste of confrontation. (The strategically scheduled discussion met in the eighth week of the term, when most students were working on papers or reviews, or were watching North and South.)

My main bone of contention with Morris regards his all-or-nothing stance on football scholarships. The proposal of the maximum number of scholarships, 70, is obviously not feasible for Davidson. There can be no argument there. However, twenty scholarships would be a tremendous aid to the team. Presently, need-based aid is available, but it is closely monitored. Therefore, the players coming to play for Davidson have to be intelligent enough to be accepted and to handle the workload once they are in, athletically talented enough to handle the tough competition, wealthy enough to afford the tuition with meager aid, and dedicated and disciplined enough to balance their academic and athletic schedules successfully and to “do without” some amenities that they could have afforded had they gone elsewhere. This student/athlete is a rare bird, and without a lowering of one of these standards, these exotic creatures will not present themselves on the Davidson campus. Academics cannot be lowered, athletic talent can't be lowered, and all that is left is the monetary factor. Allowing twenty scholarships would give us five very talented students per class to work with in football. Twenty is just two men shy of a first-string offense and defense. Twenty separated equally by class would assure outstanding talent in every class and not a concentration of talent or size in just one class.

Morris tried to convince those of us present that a player of true character would be willing to make the sacrifices Davidson requires, and that by offering scholarships we will not be getting players of the same “fabric” as we have now. I disagree. A student who chooses a school offering him a scholarship is not necessarily a greedy, self-serving young man, but perhaps one who is thinking of his family, and the pressures they may suffer because of his choice.

I agree with Morris that stadium lights are a necessity. Practices, worked around labs, are off-campus two-three times a week, and night games would certainly help build fan support. Some definite action should be taken in this direction.

Morris said, “Sometimes you go out and give it your best effort and you lose. It shows your strength of character in how you lose.” Losing does take character, that is admissible. However, I hate for such a negative focus to take hold of the Athletic Department. The statement is quotable, but its downcast focus is one that has been plaguing Davidson athletics and needs to be exterminated. I hope that Mr. Morris learned just as much as I did from the discussion. I appreciate his effort, and I hope that he appreciates the students’ efforts, because we do want improvement just as much as he does.