Opinions
Friday, January 17, 1986

For the people, by the people
Sayers Rudy

D.C. Comics killed Flash. Some of us are pretty upset about that. I don’t guess D.C. committed this murder to depress helpless kids, though. More likely, Flash died because people were no longer interested enough to keep buying stories about him. Simple supply and demand stuff killed what dozens of ferocious, fired-up villains couldn’t even catch—lightning-fast Flash, may he rest in peace. It’s a rough blow, but one we all have to accept as just good business. When we stopped buying, they started killing our heroes. Brace yourself. They killed Supergirl, too. You see, we made the decision, so we have to accept it. That’s the nature of societies that are, for the most part, generally, more or less capitalistic.

But whereas comics are not terribly controversial, seat belts, car-phones, philharmonics, jaywalking, and sub-machine guns are, or should be. They are crucial in what they show about laws and morality in this sprawling, beautiful supply and demand democracy we call America. If we Americans want to make sense to ourselves and the rest of the world, we will have to reassess who makes laws in this country, and why. I’ll tell you what seems obvious. Our government makes laws according to what the public will accept, rather than what is morally right.

I anticipate a violent reaction to that statement; I designed it to evince in your democratic brain a twinge of resistance. That twinge is a good thing. It’s also annoying, but bear with me. And think about this. Should a democratic government accept an immoral mandate from the public it represents?

Over Thanksgiving break I saw Leonard Bernstein rehearse the New York Philharmonic at Avery Fisher Hall in New York. The piece was Gustav Mahler’s 7th Symphony, which is dramatic anyway, but breathtaking under Bernstein’s direction. Often Bernstein stopped the huge orchestra to make comments. This is expected at rehearsal. Bernstein was interpreting Mahler, a composer to whom he feels a special affinity. Bernstein was getting the masterpiece to sound exactly the way Bernstein wanted to hear it. Hundreds of us there paid to watch Bernstein make music the way he wanted it. No one objected. No one voted. No one chose. We just sat there and trusted Bernstein. The concert hall was stuffed with musical erudition and preference and absolutely bereft of democracy. Satisfied, Bernstein finished and bowed. Everyone clapped vigorously, then left. The papers raved about Bernstein the next day, following the real performance. They’re right—he’s a genius. Who is to question Bernstein? He wore blue jeans when I saw him.

Perhaps this seems an absurd analogy to the trust we place in our government. Well, it isn’t. When was the jaywalking plebiscite? When was the seat belt referendum? Who knows? Exactly. The seat belt law and the jaywalking law exist because opposing them is as ludicrous as raising your hand and suggesting to Bernstein a different interpretation. People who oppose laws intended for the preservation of life and limb appear to want more people killed and hurt. This leads to strange looks at cocktail parties and a too-powerful government which can legalize condescending invasions of privacy without opposition. New York’s seat belt law only gave me another reason to choke myself while driving. Fifty-dollar fines go to those who don’t choke themselves while driving. The first fine they gave out went to some fellow from Vermont, where they don’t have a seat belt law. Interesting, but anyway, I do use my belt. Hurray. I also jaywalk without fail, and so do you. The message of these laws is clear—Americans aren’t mature enough to protect themselves. Therefore, we need policepeople to take our money away when we don’t protect ourselves. Without that money, we’ll be better next time.

These might be just nice laws that shouldn’t bother anybody. But they are too conspicuous a sign that our government makes laws that it can get away with, instead of laws that are right. Listen. Why aren’t emergency air bags mandatory in all cars? Because we won’t pay for it. They work. They are automatic. They don’t choke people or hurt short, large-breasted women, the largest seat belt opposition group in New York. They would save far more lives than seat belts. The public won’t accept the cost of air bags, so a law for them is out of the question. Will the government outlaw car-phones? Of course not, because people want them. Somehow, a car-phone in your hand is supposed to put you one step ahead of the next guy, who has a car-phone in his hand. Supply and demand morality dictates that if we want car-phones, we should have them, despite the emerging evidence that people talking on the phone while driving are more likely to cause accidents. I can’t wait to jaywalk in front of a shiny Cadillac driven by some distracted, shiny corporate lawyer who’s phoning in the results of the latest shiny take-over.

This is my first gripe. U.S. laws tend toward inconsistency because they don’t comply with morality or logic. U.S. laws comply with what the public will tolerate. It’s democratic, and it’s lousy law-making. My sister Gail had to pay a $128 fine for carrying a beer bottle that was not entirely covered by the bag that the store gave her. The bottle was unopened. Gail was not drinking. This could happen to you if you don’t completely cover your beer bottle in public. Or if you drink on the sidewalk. Drinking indoors in public is legal, drinking outdoors in public isn’t. Whence cometh these insane laws? Two places. First place, Prohibition failed when the government surrendered to public opinion which, right or wrong, would not accept a law against drinking alcohol. Demand repealed the law. Morality was not theissue. The government had to do something — it always has to do something, have you noticed? — so it invented crazy laws about paper bags and sidewalks. Second place, laws about paper bags and sidewalks cannot produce serious opposition. Try marching against brown bags. Alcohol is a commodity because enough people want it. Equally addictive and rotten for you and distinguishable only in its particular effects, marijuana is illegal because not enough people want it. You cannot claim one to be morally more justifiable than the other, yet one is illegal. This is moral anarchy. I should say the government passes good laws, too. Many of them. The government must pass laws all the time so that it appears to be doing its job. If it didn’t, we might decide we don’t need it. I sympathize with lawmakers to a degree. If everyone in the U.S. were to demand frisbees be made illegal, the government should outlaw frisbees. But the government goes too far if it decides that people must all wear frisbee detectors on their foreheads because frisbees are dangerous. I sympathize with the government; the government has little choice in a democracy. If the government refused to abort Prohibition, democracy would have flown out the window. But the government should not then supply band-aids for gashes, silly laws about paper bags for the problem of alcoholism. When the government says the public is responsible enough to dictate law-making, that government cannot turn around and say the public is not responsible enough to protect itself. If we are mature enough to dictate law-making, we are mature enough to decide to wear helmets when we ride motorcycles. The assumption of a mature public and the simultaneous denial of it by the government is rampant in this country. The government insists — increasingly by law — that we protect ourselves. Why, then, if we can’t cross the street where we want, should we be allowed to smoke? If we cannot be trusted to walk to the other side of the street, can we really be intelligent enough to decide on our own whether we should smoke or drink or drive or vote? How about this: we have been told where to cross streets, while we have been told we are responsible enough to own and carry submachine guns. Any small demand can create a market. There are thirty-five thousand privately owned UZI and Mac-10 submachine guns in the United States. They exist for one purpose — killing people. The Congress refuses to outlaw the teflon-coated bullet, used exclusively to tear through the bullet-proof vests of the policepeople. The NRA is strong enough that its tiny demand for these arms and ammunition can force legalized immorality into this country. Don’t be bothered if you disagree with what I think is moral and immoral. That stuff is individual cases, subject to lengthy sophistry elsewhere. The point here is more general, maybe more important. At the age of 21 in this country, I am allowed to drink, smoke, talk on the phone while driving, and own an arsenal of weapons including submachine guns and teflon bullets. But I'm not considered mature or responsible enough to decide how to carry my beer, whether to buckle up or where to cross the street. If that makes sense to you, I’m sorry I wasted your time. But I wonder. What would Flash say? Rudy is a senior center major from Scarsdale, N.Y.

Just Words
Timothy Brown

It’s a fact that humor exists in this world and that one need only go as far as the newspaper to find it. Care to snicker? On the whole matter of current affairs only two tidbits conjure up in me as much consternation as the Gramm-Rudman Bill: (1) Nobel Peace laureate Bishop Tutu claiming that his fasting, for a whole 24 hours, would prod the South African government into pulling its soldiers out of black townships. And (2) — I suggest you buttress yourself — County health officials in West Palm Beach, Florida, distributing “Captain Condom” posters and fishbowls of free prophylactics in homosexual bars, hoping thereby to slow the spread of the AIDS virus. Can you hear the cadence now: Is it a balloon? Is it a zeppelin? No...

Conceived by Republicans and Democrats working together, Congress is fooling itself. What does the bill state? and What does it import. Namely this, that we should reduce the budget deficit to $180 billion next year, to $144 billion the following year, $108 billion in 1988, $72 billion in 1989, $36 billion in 1990, to 0 in 1991: proposing not a single cut in any single program in any single year. Well then, what good is this bill to the citizen — Ask not what good this bill does you. Ask, rather, what good this bill does its founders. It puts off hard decisions until after the elections. It allows incumbents (Republicans and Democrats) to speak honestly to those who question the incumbents’ accomplishments. Yes, we have been working really hard for all of you folks back in D.C. And we can’t wait to get this ---- election over with, so we can get back to working, go back to fighting “our” deficit. Who knows, maybe the incumbents will even kid themselves “into believing they've absolved their task,” writes Franco Modigliani of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, winner of last year’s Nobel Prize for economics. Other observations. Congress is able to revise the bill and pass decision making to a future Congress. The bill specifies if Congress, or the President, cannot determine what programs are to be cut, across-the-board reductions are to be instituted, less the areas of Social Security and interest on the debt. Leaving about one-third of the budget to be cut. And hey, that’s your future and mine they're playing with.

Brown is a sophomore from Mint Hill, N.C.