Friday, January 24, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

SGA lacks fundamental principles of democracy
David Williams

In light of the recent editorials, letters, and opinions concerning the SGA’s role and functioning at Davidson, I believe that now is an appropriate time to restate more lucidly an opinion which I placed in the Davidsonian during the first week of the school year. Simply put, the Davidson Student Government Association lacks publicity and therefore lacks “real” democracy. While the SGA performs quite a number of services to students, these events are rarely publicized in such a way that students can write home and say, “Mom and Dad, the SGA is really doing a good job for the students at Davidson, and I’m proud to be a part of it!”

In the first place, the Student Government Association gets off on the wrong foot each spring when it holds elections. Unlike other campuses, such as James Madison University, Davidson has no student political parties to rally around. One never sees the “election fever” and hoopla at Davidson which one remembers from high school and sees at other college campuses. One never sees the heavy door-to-door campaigning for support which characterizes America so well. Most importantly, the candidates for president and vice-president never make public appearances, hold campaign speeches, or debate each other. The American campaign speech, with which we are all so familiar, is a device that candidates use to present their views on salient and controversial issues. The speeches provide the voter the opportunity to make a more educated decision on election day, while debates allow the voter to observe how the candidate will stand up under pressure.

This lack of candidate publicity causes the voter to become extremely frustrated when election day rolls around. Many student voters do not even recognize the faces, much less the names, of the candidates for whom they are voting. As a result, those student voters base their decisions on the flip of a mental coin or the roll of a mental die. After the voter walks away from the poll, his life goes on as before. Once the results are tabulated, does the SGA hold an assembly to announce, while holding the captive audience in suspense, the winners of the elections? No! Instead, the few students who really care about the outcomes of the elections must seek out the results by tediously searching for them on the library door. As for a public inauguration or induction, I don’t believe the Davidson SGA knows what these terms mean. When a student doesn’t even recognize the face of his student body president, how can the student possibly have any real concern about the SGA?

As Sayres Rudy stated last week, “Once those elections are over the SGA becomes an anonymous Tuesday night social club.” Yet as President Woo and others also stated last week, “The activities of elected Senators and SGA committees are not always in the forefront, but because they are not obvious does not mean they are nonexistent.” Why must the Davidson SGA, the elected representatives of our student body, put up with their activities being “not always in the forefront?” Is not the SGA supposed to be the drum major, the flag bearer, the official spokesman for the students of Davidson College? When the SGA puts so much time into projects such as the Sophomore Class Project, the Phonathon, and the Rides project, why must it be content to bury these activities behind their appearance of “doing nothing?”

The SGA does have long-term goals, and it has many topical issues on which it is presently focusing. What the SGA lacks is a fundamental element which all political systems require: publicity. This publicity should not come only through posters or flyers posted on bathroom stalls, but should begin right at the start with campaign speeches, name recognition publicity, which serve their purpose: to get the people involved. After elections are over and the students recognize and support the SGA, the officers should continue to work to highly publicize the SGA and provide it a high campus profile. Periodic speeches to students during the middle of the week concerning major campus issues would give students the idea that the SGA is really working.

The SGA should provide students the opportunity and publicity to become involved in SGA, and I’m not just talking about committee work or going to meetings. Who wants to do committee work, anyway? Ideally, the students should be given direct opportunities to become involved in the kinds of SGA-sponsored activities which all students can become involved with and enjoy. Sayres Rudy last week stated that students “don’t care because stuff here at school seems okay.” Apparently, he was not speaking for all students; I, for one, do care, and I do not believe that everything at Davidson is necessarily okay. If everything is okay, then why did 50 or more students get kicked off campus last year due to lack of on-campus housing? Why can I never seem to find a place to park? And why do the light poles keep getting torn up, at the expense of the safety of women?

The SGA is a vital part of the Davidson campus and could play an even more significant role with adequate publicity. The SGA could receive a much greater amount of student support if it would tell the students that it is really working for them. But as long as students never have the opportunity to hear their president speak for them, how can they ever possibly give real support to their government? Without publicity, how can the SGA ever achieve “real” democracy at Davidson?

Williams is a junior political science major from Memphis, Tenn.

Amnesty International promotes human dignity
Allen Smith

For those of you who heard Ms. Denegri speak about torture in Chile last term, the horror of torture must still be very large,very painful. The human rights violations of Chile are especially bad, but then again, there are many countries that have prisoners of conscience, treated outside the law and often with inhumane cruelty. It is difficult to define exactly who qualifies as a prisoner of conscience, but the standard is a person who is imprisoned or tortured for nonviolent acts or protest. Amnesty is a group that concerns itself with disarming problems, lives that are intentionally destroyed and confined by brutal governments. There is no legal justification for sadism. Lives are destroyed for many reasons, many of which are as unclear as the incident upon which Amnesty was founded. In 1961, two Portuguese men were imprisoned for giving “a toast to freedom.” Peter Benenson was struck by this enough to ponder more common human rights violations. He wrote a newspaper article that encouraged people to do something: to start writing impartial and peaceful letters on behalf of thousands of men and women imprisoned throughout the world for their political and religious beliefs. These prisoners were to be called “prisoners of conscience” later, and it is on their behalf that people still write today. Not to sound melodramatic, but not to play blind either, it is a tremendous task to which AI challenges people. It’s one of those people-be-nice-to-people groups, right? No, not at all. Amnesty asks only one thing, that people be treated with the dignity to which human beings are entitled. Dignity to not have life struck behind bars because a different opinion is stated, a thoughtcrime. But still that’s not all. Because human rights violations often extend beyond confinement of movement and acquaintances, imprisonment, to more direct abuse, cruel and intentional torture. Amnesty works to help individual prisoners of conscience, usually those in greatest need of help as best as AI can tell. This judgment is based solely on human rights concerns. For its successful work to help governments effect the release of prisoners of conscience, Amnesty International won the 1977 Nobel Peace Prize. By working for individuals’ freedom from torture, AI makes the voice of all such tortured people heard. At worst, Amnesty stirs or maintains public attention to human rights violations. At best, Amnesty saves individuals from worse bodily harm than they have already received. Letter writings work for individual prisoners. Urgent Action sheets are sent to AI groups informing them of individual human rights violations with the specific names of people in specific countries. “Recommended action” on the sheets presents Amnesty's suggested course of action. Every Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Big Conference Room, Davidson Amnesty has letter writings. This Wednesday our letters will address the execution of political prisoners and army deserters in Iraq. Please come join us. Amnesty International is an independent,