Sports

Chris Heineman stretches to add points to Monday’s 81-68 win over Marshall.

Davidson

By KEITH FINCH

The Davidson grapplers fought a tough but rewarding battle Wednesday night against Furman and Livingstone College, defeating Furman 23-21 and
holding out against Division II top 20 Livingstone, losing 41-8.

Things didn’t look too good for Davidson going into the match with Furman; the Wildcats had already lost to Furman
once this year, 30-24, and were without 150-pound junior J.T. Lay — who broke the top of his ankle and
tore a ligament in Tuesday’s practice.

The action began with a few Davidson losses; junior Mike Adams lost some points in the first period of his
118-pound contest when he was thrown to his back, but he survived and spent most of the match up on
his feet, trying to take his opponent down. He lost an 8-3 decision. Next, freshman Rufus Timberlake accepted a forfeit
at 126 pounds, and freshman Mark Harris was pinned in 1:20.

Things began looking up in the next match-up; 142-pound sophomore Bill Breidenstine opened up by taking his opponent down, purposely
letting him escape, and then taking him down again to end the first period with a score of 4-1. He
picked up two points in the second period: one from his own escape and one from his opponent’s poor starting
position, but lost his opponent in the third period to win 6-2.

Senior Taylor Simpson put forth a good effort and almost came through at 150 pounds; down 4-0 at the end
of the second period, he reversed his opponent twice in the last minutes of his contest to score four points.
He nevertheless lost a 6-4 decision.

Next, at 158 pounds, freshman Sherb Sentell won a truly exciting match. After fighting for a takedown all through the
first period, he lost some points during the second period but almost pinned his opponent in the last moments. The
third period saw him lose his opponent by over-spinning on a spiral breakdown, yet score a takedown and one point
for riding time to win, 11-9.

Sophomore Tim Heinze once again demonstrated superior control over his 167-pound opponent; his ability to score takedowns proved decisive in
his 20-7 decision. Next, senior Don Stovall accepted a forfeit at 177 pounds, while 190-pound senior Gniff

By EDWIN PAGE

On Monday, the Davidson Wildcats took a big step forward and found themselves in the middle of the race for
the Southern Conference crown when they thrashed the Thundering Herd from Marshall 81-68 in front of a packed and rowdy
Johnston gym. The win left the Cats with a 7-3 record in the conference, just behind first place UTC (7-2)
and East Tennessee State (8-3). The loss moved Marshall out of first and gave them a 7-3 conference tally as
well.

The game remained tight throughout the first eight minutes, with neither team establishing much momentum. Davidson crept ahead by four
at 11-7 on a three-point play by junior Chris Heineman, but Marshall came back to tie the score at 11
and once again at 13. A resounding dunk by junior Ace Tanner, and two Tanner free throws after a steal
put the Cats up by four. Davidson stretched the lead to seven on three occasions on hot shooting by sophomore
guard Derek Rucker and solid inside play from senior Gerry Born, but the Herd’s Norman Ray, playing well within the
realm of unconsciousness, tossed in 8 of 10 shots from the field. Ray, shooting 38 percent from the field and
averaging 5.5 points before this game, buried shot after shot with Davidson defenders in his face as he almost singlehandedly
kept Marshall close. He scored 10 of Marshall’s last 12 points in the first half to shave the Davidson lead
to 38-35 before halftime.

Marshall came out at intermission playing tough, aggressive defense, and after three quick Wildcat fouls, Jeff Guthrie brought the Herd
even at 40 with a breakaway dunk after a steal. Davidson took a timeout, and while they rested on their
bench, Marshall wasForced to move their huddle to the court in an effort to escape the roaring of the crowd,
the lead see-sawed back and forth until, at 52 all, Born hit a layup and followed with a short jumper
to put the Cats ahead for good. Marshall twice got as close as two, but the Cats refused to miss
a shot down the stretch. Davidson patiently worked the ball on every possession until they got a good shot, which
they inevitably buried. Marshall took two timeouts inside two minutes, but the Cats found all kinds of holes in the
Herd press. Senior Pepper Bego hit a layup to put Davidson up by 10, and sophomore Jeff Himes capped off
a solid nine-point performance with a dunk that brought the crowd to new heights of frenzy and put the game
out of reach. Just over a minute later, it was all over, and Davidson walked off the court with perhaps
the most satisfying victory of this season.

The win broke a streak of eight straight Marshall wins over Davidson and moved the Cats to a 10-0 record
in Johnston Gym this season. That is the most straight victories in Johnston Gym since Davidson's glory days of the
late sixties and early seventies when the Cats reeled off a phenomenal 59 straight wins. The win put the Cats
at 14-7 on the year, matching coach Bobby Hussey's highest win total since coming to Davidson. Born led the Cats
in scoring with 21 points. Rucker also hit the magical 20-point plateau. Heineman had a very big hand in the
win as he pitched in 13 while smothering Marshall star Skip Henderson to only eight points (two in the second
half) on four of 15 shooting. The Cats shot an amazing 86.4 percent from the field in the second half
(missing only three shots) and 68.9 percent for the game to counter the Thundering Herd’s solid 56.1 percent.

It was undoubtedly the finest crowd the Cats have played in front of this season. The noise was deafening for
all forty minutes of the game and more as the Wildcat faithful poured out onto the floor and chanted “C-A-T-S”
for several minutes after the conclusion of the game. Davidson travels to league-leading UT-Chattanooga on Thursday. The fate of the
Southern Conference hangs in the balance.

Elder fought hard to take his opponent down with an upper-body tie-up but lost by a fall in 3:50. The
fate of the Davidson-Furman match-up was to be decided by the heavyweight contest, fought by junior Gary Branch. With team
scores standing at 23 for Davidson and 18 for Furman, Branch had to avoid losing his match by more than
eleven points. Although he lost, Davidson won—his 14-11 decision brought the score up to 23-21, a Wildcat victory.

The Davidson wrestlers then took a break while Livingstone College and Furman battled it out. Livingstone stomped Furman, 53-0. In
the competition against Livingstone College, Davidson encountered some more serious difficulties and some very experienced wrestlers, including at least one
national champion. Yet two Wildcats managed to win their matches. Breidenstine won a very close decision in the last seconds
of his 142-pound contest: with fifteen seconds left and the score set at 3-2, he lifted his cross-body-riding opponent completely
off the ground, shook him off, and threw himself on top of him to score a two-point reversal. His opponent
received one point for riding time, but Bill still won, 5-3. Tim Heinze also won a close decision. He scored
takedowns and escapes all through the match but had difficulty keeping his opponent on the mat. Or so it seemed
until the third period, when Tim held his opponent for 1:08 to score one point for riding time and to
win, 9-4. Heavyweight Branch scored two team points for the Wildcats by tying his opponent 4-4, but all the other
Davidson wrestlers lost—Adams, Timberlake, Harris, Simpson, Sentell, and Elder by pins, and Stovall by a 3-6 decision. The Wildcats lost
41-8.

Davidson’s Tim Heinze gets the upper hand over his opponent.
