Friday, January 31, 1986

THE DAVIDSONIAN

——Beyond Davidson

Ships sent near Libya, shuttle Challenger explodes

Headlining the news for the week of January 23-29:

Middle East News — In an attempt to demonstrate U.S. resolve against Libyan leader Qaddafi, the U.S. has begun naval exercises in the Mediterranean near Libya, and sources report that more “money and manpower” has been ordered for the development of a CIA covert operation against Qaddafi, who is accused by the U.S. of supporting international terrorism. The Reagan administration states that these efforts are in no way indicative of a planned U.S. military attack on Libya.

—a weekly news summary by JANE AURELL

Continuing his “shuttle diplomacy,” U.S. Mideast envoy Richard Murphy met in London with Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres to discuss prospects for a Mideast peace conference. Meanwhile, in Jordan, PLO leader Yasir Arafat met with Jordan’s King Hussein to discuss the possibility of such talks. Reports indicate that fighting has subsided in South Yemen with the rebels reported to have deposed President Nasser Mohammed; the U.S. announced on Monday that it will not recognize the radical Marxist rebels who have seized control of the Red Sea country. Sparked in part by OPEC’s December decision to protect its share of the world market by reducing the prices charged by its members, crude oil prices have declined one-third, to less than $20 for a 42-gallon barrel.

Asian News — In the Philippines, pre-election accusations continue between President Ferdinand Marcos and opposition candidate Corazon Aquino; the presidential elections will be held Feb. 7. The U.S. is sending a delegation to observe the election in hopes that their presence will ensure a free and fair election. The Reagan administration has decided on a policy of “distancing” toward Marcos’s Philippines, saying that the removal of Marcos is essential for a non-communist future for the Philippines and the security of U.S. interests. The U.S. is reportedly planning a large sale of advanced avionics to China to be used to protect China’s northern border with the U.S.S.R.; the upgraded planes will reportedly pose no new threat to Taiwan. A Korean diplomat in China reports that senior Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping is ill; the Chinese government denies the report. India announced that as of last Sunday, the city of Bombay will now be called Mumbai.

African News — Five weeks after a peace treaty was signed between rebels and Uganda’s military government, rebel forces invaded and seized the capital of Kampala; Yoweri Museveni, the rebel leader, said he would form a non-aligned government committed to protecting human rights. Jonas Savimbi, the leader of the rebels fighting the Marxist government of Angola, is in the U.S. hoping to win support for direct U.S. aid for his forces; Congress and the Reagan administration continue to remain divided on this issue. After receiving a pledge and visible evidence that the new government of Lesotho will not allow the small kingdom, which is surrounded by South Africa, to be used as an ANC base (the rebels fighting South Africa’s white minority government), South Africa lifted its three-week blockade of the tiny kingdom. Meanwhile, in South Africa, tribal battles between Zulu and Pondo tribesmen have left 42 dead and thousands homeless. A South African government official called Anglican Bishop Desmond Tutu’s support of the ANC deplorable; Tutu claims that while he supports the aims of the ANC, he disapproves of its methods. Tutu reports that his three-week American tour raised nearly $1 million to aid political prisoners, refugees, and his Anglican church diocese. On Tuesday, black students in South Africa ended a two-year school boycott after an agreement was reached between parents and the white government.

European News — Britain’s Trade and Industry Secretary resigned Friday; this is the second senior man in 15 days to leave Thatcher's conservative government as a result of what has become known as the “Westland Affair.” However, amid opposition calls for her resignation, Thatcher rallied a 160-vote majority in a Parliamentary vote of confidence and said that she plans to run for a third term. In Northern Ireland, Protestants reclaimed 14 of 15 seats to a Catholic gain of one in a special Parliamentary election called because the Protestants, who had originally held all 15 seats, had resigned in protest of the Nov. 1 Anglo-Irish accord which gives the Irish Republic a role in the affairs of Northern Ireland.

Elsewhere in the World — The new Honduran government has agreed to loosen its embargo on U.S. shipments of non-lethal aid being funneled to the Nicaraguan rebels based in camps along the Honduran-Nicaraguan border.

National News — In a horrifying tragedy, the space shuttle Challenger exploded shortly after Tuesday’s delayed take-off, killing all seven aboard; teacher Christa McAuliffe, America’s first civilian in space, was among the casualties.

In Scientific Developments — The Voyager 2 space probe, launched in 1977, has been sending back spectacular first-time photographs of the planet Uranus. Citing evidence of cancer risks, the EPA proposed that a total ban be placed on the use of asbestos within the next 10 years. A new study published in the New England Journal of Medicine reports that heredity is the leading factor in determining a person's weight; however, it reports that no matter what one’s genes, most people can influence their weight by proper diet and exercise.

In Economic Developments — Pepsi Co. Inc. bought Seven-Up Co. for $380 million in cash, making Pepsi Co. almost as big as No. 1 Coca-Cola Co. A new report revealed that the U.S. economy grew 2.3 percent in 1985, the weakest performance since 1982.

Other News — As a result of cultural accords signed at the Geneva Summit, the Philadelphia Orchestra has been invited by the U.S.S.R. to perform four concerts. Finally, the Chicago Bears trounced the New England Patriots.46 to 10 to win Sunday’s Superbowl.

Thought for the Week — “We will never forget them or the last time we saw them as they prepared for their journey and waved goodbye and slipped the surly bonds of Earth to touch with the face of God.” President Reagan Jan. 28, 1986.

Task Force summarizes strengths, weaknesses of college
By JIM DILLON

The Task Force on Strategic Planning released a summary of its report which examines the semesters/trimesters question, departmental major requirements, and possible inconsistencies in the athletic program. A final draft is soon forthcoming, according to task force member Gail Gibson, English professor.

The task force, established by College President John Kuykendall, has identified the college’s strengths and weaknesses and outlined planning strategies for the next 10 to 15 years. The finished report will be presented to the trustees, who will then evaluate it and decide what actions to take, according to task force member junior Mark Sandy.

The task force discussed the possibility that Davidson's trimester system may not be best for the college. Gibson said discussion of switching to a semester system did come up. “There was divided opinion on this issue concerning whether the present academic calendar system is best with respect to independent thinking, faculty involved in research, and other things. Some saw this as an issue that should be settled and others saw this as a profound problem,” Gibson said.

“We just thought it was a good time to look at that again. Evidently this issue comes up with the faculty about every other year,” Woo said.

Some task force members thought students are often not challenged enough, especially in their junior and senior years. Student Government Association President Beadsie Woo, a student representative to the task force, said they discussed the possibility of requiring an independent study in order to fulfill major requirements. “We felt that many juniors and seniors in their majors have not been challenged to gain a full knowledge of their major,” Woo said.

“There was really no clear sense of resolution on this subject. We had a great sense of the nurture and care given students, but maybe we're giving too much support where there is no independence of mind, not enough risk or not enough challenge,” Gibson said.

The task force also examined what it saw as “obvious inconsistencies” in the athletic program. Gibson said much of the discussion concerned women’s club and intramural athletic programs. “We felt that there were obvious differences between the women’s and men’s programs in terms of money, physical and moral support. There was also the feeling that club and intramural sports need more of a piece of the pie,” Gibson said.

Among strengths the task force listed the quality of the faculty, the school’s reputation, its size, the emphasis on distinctiveness in teaching and the student/faculty relationship, its selectivity, its commitment to human service and personal values, the school’s diversity and students’ well-roundedness, the emphasis on a total educational experience, the school’s tradition of achievement, the loyalty of its alumni, its record of leadership, its commitment to international studies, the physical appearance of the campus and its opportunities in athletics.

Among weaknesses the task force cited that the school’s financial base is unable to support “the broad program necessary to maintain excellence.” Gibson said the development office will begin a campaign in 1987. “We recognized that our hopes have money as the bottom line. If we're going to attract more quality faculty members and do more recruiting — all of this really involves money. It is necessary that we make a major fund-raising effort in which we tap both old sources and new sources,” Gibson said.

The task force also discussed problems with overall compensation packages for faculty and staff. The task force generally felt that the package will need to be more attractive if Davidson is to recruit successfully for quality faculty in the future. “We found that Davidson is not always as strong as it should be. We are typically, but not always below those of comparable institutions, but there have been improvements. The cost of living is less here. We're aware of that, but we need to raise the level of compensation,” Gibson said.

The task force listed a number of capital projects which it said should be looked at in this near future. The seven receiving high priority status were increased office space for faculty and staff, increased classroom space, renovation of the language laboratory, renovation of dormitories, funding for ongoing maintenance and renovation, increased availability of computers, and renovation or relocation of the College Union. “These are things that should be done as soon as possible or yesterday. They are really pressing needs which should have already been addressed,” Gibson said.

The formal report will be published in February, and two forums will be held in February (one for students and the other for faculty and staff) concerning the report and its contents. It will be presented to the Board of Trustees in February as well. “There are no real revelations in the document and no surprises, but what the board of trustees will be finding is thoughtful suggestions. We spent a lot of time doing this. We spent about 45 hours, and that’s not counting time spent in sub-committees. The report is an attempt to organize a lot of thinking about where we're going and where we should be going, and we hope that the document will be received on an annual basis,” Gibson stated.

“Some of the things we've suggested have already been identified, and in a sense, I guess we're just stating the obvious, but what the trustees do with the report will largely depend on the success of the 87 projects.” Woo said.