18 Wednesday, December 10, —— | —Cloudt’s view— THE DAVIDSONIAN ——

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
John Gathings, Editor Emeritus
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Jim Dillon, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Mark Chen, Features Editor
Lee Eichelberger, Inside Art Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Susan Wilkins, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Alarming

Resident advisors should be given keys to turn off the fire alarms in dormitories. The town of Davidson seems to
feel only the fire department is able to determine when a false alarm has been set off. This is why
the fire trucks roll in every time an alarm goes off and everyone has to be evacuated before those obnoxious
sirens are silenced.

False alarms are a serious matter and the administration's and the town’s concern over them is justified. The town’s tactics
for dealing with the problem, however, are not justified. Some false alarms, believe it or not, are set off accidentally!
Many a time has the cause for such a disturbance been the dormitories’ permanent residents, the ants. In addition, rampaging
visitors have been known to set alarms off for reasons known only to them (remember those dandy fraternity members from
a nearby school).

Why should the fire department, the campus police, and the residents of an entire dormitory be held hostage by a
false alarm when a good night’s sleep can be one quick key-turn away? The original reason for depriving resident advisors
of keys to the fire alarms was to deter would-be pranksters from intentionally setting off the alarms. Making a bigger
production of alarms (the arrival of fire engines, etc.) only encourages the possible audio-vandal. It may be thought that one’s
dorm-mates will complain if alarms are repeatedly and falsely set off and that the offender will overhear these comments and
cease his unsociable actions. Yet those who set off false alarms have no concern for others in the first place,
and using such a tactic based on sympathy will have no effect.

Why not give back the keys and find another way of punishment, so that only the false-alarmer pays and not
all of the residents of the dorm? The current distribution of precious fire-alarm keys is flawed. With false alarms so
much more common than real emergencies, it seems a few more would make life a lot easier on all parties
concerned. For those of you confronted by the desire to set off a false alarm, just say no; we have
a different desire — sleep.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-

Advent

To the Editors:

The Advent Season has begun and as we prepare our hearts and minds for the celebration of the birth of
Christ, we look for ways and means of sharing our love with others. It is during this time in the
Christian Year we especially remember God's gift to us of His only begotten Son, that we might believe in Him
and have eternal life. As you seek to share your love during this special season, the Office of the Chaplain
and the Chapel Committee invite you to share your love through contributing to our Christmas Gift Fund.

This year we have selected the Cooperatives Development and Workers’ Relief Project in South Africa to be the recipient of
our annual Christmas Gift Fund. It is a worker-managed cooperative enterprise established by unemployed workers in the Pietermaritzburg region of
Natal, South Africa. More than 1,000 workers ata British-owned rubber company, BTR (Sarmcol), were fired after striking for better pay
and union recognition. After a year on strike and with no positive response to their demands by the company, the
workers decided to establish a cooperative to enable them and their families (over 6,000 women and children) to survive. The
monies donated to this year’s Christmas Gift Fund will aid these unemployed workers and their families in producing food on
land donated by local churches; T-shirt and badge-making; bulk-buying of basic foodstuffs to make them cheaper for workers’ families; assist
management of the Sarmcol Workers’ Cooperative and its various projects, and to establish a free health service for workers and
their families which includes screening to identify the most serious cases of malnutrition among children of workers. Please join us,
in the Spirit of Christ, in attempting to make a positive response to the unjust situation in South Africa by
contributing to the Christmas Gift Fund.

The views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first
class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College. News Staff: Laura Ballenger,
David Bearce, Betsy Bryan, Maria Douglas, Wendy Dunn, Laura Gabel, Penelope Hughes, Lucia Kendall, Aaron Levine, Sarah Longely, Ed Matthews,
Tom Moore, Ray Thornton, David Van Pelt, David Williams, Ted Wilson. Features Staff: Lee Eichelberger, Jessica Fisher, Scott Goodwin, Chris
Hargrove, Steve Mank, Diana Miller. Sports Staff: Rick Case, Boyd Coggins, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wilkins. Photography Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda
Higbie, Penelope Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, Matt Yaun. Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill. Production Staff: Beth Bryson, Kim
Craig, Amelia Fox, Gates Grainger, Robert Grzeszczak, Pete Mangone, Tom Moore, Ibby Sowell, Kathryn Strickland, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Ben
Yarbrough. Circulation Staff: Lucia Kendall. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or opinion articles do not necessarily reflect the
views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian.

ADVISOR CANDIDATES THE SELECTION COMMITTEE'S LITTLE WIND-UP THING! Letters THE FRESHMEN HALL COUNCILOR SELECTION PROCESS BEGINS WITH YOUR VOTE NEXT
TUESDAY. Checks should be made payable to: Christmas Gift Fund, and sent to the Office of the Chaplain. May God’s
peace and love be with you during this special time of the church year. Brenda H. Tapia Assistant Chaplain

Demon

To the Editors:

I am writing this letter in response to your editorial entitled “Demons” and appearing in the Oct. 31 issue of
The Davidsonian. Your editorial disturbs me—not because I disagree with it—but because so much of what you wrote is totally
untrue and is damaging to Davidson College and to the student body. I am pretty much the Demon as depicted
in your editorial. The difference is that I do give—as do so many others to Davidson—but there are no complaints
or demands. The Covington Golf Facility, which The Davidsonian in the same issue says “offers golfing fun for all,” is
something that I gave with no demands whatsoever. The other donors that I know of do likewise. Your editorial certainly
has a discouraging effect on future giving. The college as a whole and the students to the greatest degree enjoy
the benefits of these gifts. You are doing them a disservice with irresponsible writing. You say too that Davidson is
for students, not former students. That’s got to be one of the dumbest statements ever made. Davidson is for students
present, past, and future. It is for faculty and staff, friends, and townspeople. You mention that student opinion is ignored
by alumni and trustees in their decision-making. This is not true. But I will say this: Opinions as expressed in
your editorial are best treated by being ignored.

Howard Covington, '37
