UNCC professor to speak on Japan

The director of UNCC’s Center for International Studies, Harold Josephson, will speak on Japan at a luncheon Wednesday, Nov. 12,
at Davidson College. Josephson’s lecture, “Japan’s Place in the World,” will be presented in the College Union. Lunch costs $1.50
and begins at 12:30 p.m.; the lecture is free and begins at 1 p.m. This event is sponsored by the
Dean Rusk program in International Studies. For more information, call 892-200, ext. 440.

Since 1983 Josephson has served as executive director of the Carolinas Council on World Affairs, in addition to his duties
at UNCC. He has written three books, including the “Biographical Dictionary of Modern Peace Leaders,” and published numerous articles and
book reviews on U.S. foreign policy, the cold war, the red scare, and international relations. He was consultant and main
scriptwriter for “The Rise and Fall of American Diplomacy,” an eight-part television series aired on Charlotte’s WTVI-TV in the summer
of 1973.

News Shorts

Josephson, a member of such organizations as the International Studies Association and the American Historical Association, earned a bachelor’s degree
from Brooklyn College and master’s and doctoral degrees from the University of Wisconsin at Madison.

Friday, November 7, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Gay Support Group forming to help students

The Gay Support Group for Davidson College, sponsored by the Dean of Students Office, the College Union, the Chaplain’s Office,
and the Residence Life Office, would like to encourage students interested in forming a group to write: Support Group, Box
135, Davidson, NC. All inquiries will be kept confidential.

Stress interferes with women’s lifestyles

By ED MATTHEWS

A lack of identity causes much of the stress experienced by women in the United States today, said psychologist Daphne
Timmons in the 900 Room on Wednesday. “Without an awareness of themselves as individuals, women are left with an absence
of substance which leads to depression.”

Timmons, a practicing psychologist in Charlotte and member of the Charlotte Psychological Association, spoke to a crowd of 100 students
and faculty. “Without an identity,” she said, “you don’t have much control over your life. You have to know what
your needs are and then define them clearly. So many women are trying to create an identity outside while not
meeting internal needs.”

She pointed out that this lack of identity has become a problem since the advent of women’s rights. Today there
is pressure to be both a homemaker and a career woman, and to accept the responsibilities of both. “Women think
they should be able to perform perfectly. When they don’t, when they aren’t able to balance a job and raise
the kids and keep the house, they feel as if they have failed.”

She explained that there is a societal conditioning which has led women to be so concerned about others, their children
or their husbands, that they ignore their own wants and desires. “Then they feel out of control and empty.”

Timmons said that women often try to blame their problems on men. While acknowledging that women have to work harder
to succeed at the same jobs as men, she does not allow her patients to use this as an excuse.
“Every woman has the choice to control her own life or to be controlled.”

Women need to balance four important areas of their lives to help achieve satisfaction, Timmons noted: the physical self, the
cognitive, the spiritual, and the emotional. When women become so caught up in their work, they separate their heads from
their bodies, “which creates many problems because our bodies give us many signals about our emotional health. For instance, stomach
aches are often fear-induced,” she said.

Another way women can begin reducing their stress-related problems is by understanding the difference between “doing” and “being.” “We live
in the future because we don’t want the past creeping back in spoiling things and end up missing now. The
question, then, is ‘How does one be?’ To begin with,” she remarked, “You have to make a commitment: What am
I committed to being? Then you identify your problems so that you can begin solving them. Just identifying them does
you no good.”

“The most important step,” she asserted, “is to have an action plan because without it, it is hard to implement
one’s commitment. Commitment seems to create energy,” she said, and named worrying, being in a hurry, fear, and resentment as
four states which waste that energy. “We create our lives. It’s not about being a failure, it’s about learning lessons
from problems.”Define your ethics and business make a good combination

By DAVID H. BEARCE

The speaker at this week's Open Luncheon, sponsored by the Campus Forum Committee, was Larry Kirkman, the district manager of
Procter & Gamble, who spoke in the 900 Room Wednesday, Nov. 5 on “Ethics in Business.” Kirkman defined ethics as
“professional and moral standards of conduct.” He added that “people are judged by their peer group based on the ethics
they display both before and after work.” People base their judgments of a certain business on the basis of the
individuals they come into contact with, and thus one must always act in an ethical manner.

Kirkman stated that there are “always policies that give people trouble” because company guidelines “don’t cover every aspect” of the
company’s dealings. There are often gray areas not covered by company guidelines, and difficulties arise near these gray areas. But
Kirkman stressed that “many companies do handle themselves very well, but you just don’t read about it in the newspapers.”
He said that most companies do not function if “the ends justify the means.”

Next, Kirkman addressed the question of responsibility. Ultimately the upper-level management is responsible, he said, but rules do not cover
all situations and the workers must often make their own decisions. Thus, according to Kirkman, “all people have the responsibility
to display good ethics and train others” to do the same. A moral code “affects both the social and the
business life.” Most employers are looking for individuals who are “unwilling to compromise” this moral code. Everyone straightens up when
they are being watched, he said, but “what we do when nobody is looking is the real issue,” according to
Kirkman.

Kirkman defined character as “what we are.” Reputation is defined as “what others think we are.” Reputation counts for a
lot and once it is broken “it is very difficult to mend. We at Procter & Gamble are very protective
of our reputation.” Recently there have been rumors that Procter & Gamble was connected to the Church of Satan because
of the company’s logo. Kirkman said these rumors “were very difficult to quell,” and Procter & Gamble has “spent thousands
and thousands of dollars.” Now they have decided to remove the old logo from some of their products.

Kirkman said there is a connection between reputation and sales. People buy a product initially because it costs less. But
“if the people know they are getting value for their money, they will come back and buy it again. The
reputation of a company is predicated on the quality of its products.” Kirkman remarked that Procter & Gamble voluntarily took
Rely tampons off the shelf because of the risk of toxic shock syndrome. This has been their “worst quarter in
history” but it showed Procter & Gamble’s philosophy of “looking to the long-term.”

Currently, Procter & Gamble is initiating drug testing for its manufacturing personnel because they are responsible for operating high-speed machinery.
Kirkman said that drug testing is a “new subject receiving a lot of attention” and Procter & Gamble is “grappling
with the issue now.”

Larry Kirkman speaks on business ethics

Kirkman gave advice to seniors who are looking for a company with integrity. He said “look at the people.” If
they appear ethical then “the rest of the company is probably the same way.” The commitment to their employees is
probably indicative of how they treat their customers and competitors, according to Kirkman.

Continued from page 1

Sarah Merritt, junior Vincent (V.K.) Knight, and senior Ollie Wagner.

The Alumni Award, presented to the sophomore who attained the highest academic average during the freshman year, went to Kyong
Shin Lee, Susan Martin Park, and Fred Wenzel.

The ROTC presented its Department of the Army Superior Cadet Awards to sophomore John Wesley Black, junior Timothy Clifford Heinz,
and senior John Woodward McNeill.

Finally, Omicron Delta Kappa, a national leadership society, recognized juniors and seniors for eminence in five phases of campus life
including scholarship, athletics, social and religious activities, publications, and forensic, dramatic, musical, and other cultural activities. ODK honored the following
students: juniors Knight, Michael Poulos, Gretchen Schoel, Holly Sparks, Eric Whytsell, and seniors Bonnie Bolton, Holly Gaston, Kathleen Micham, Michael
Holt, Mark Swift, Gary Stewart, Eric Strother, Bob Kemerait, Christie Johnson, Margaret White, and Julian Wright.

Ken Jones
