By ANDY BALL

Combining rich, graceful movements and dance steps with elaborate costumes and makeup, the Kuchipudi dance troupe brought its unique art
form to Davidson Wednesday night. The third of the Union-sponsored Artist Series presentations was made possible by the Festival of
India program which is currently touring the United States.

Kuchipudi is a small village in Southeast India from which the Kuchipudi form of dance originated. It is one of
the few forms which has been performed outside its home area.

A key element of the Kuchipudi dance is its ability to tell a story or communicate through movements. A demonstration
by one of the principal musicians showed that by the simple movement of one hand, the dancer can communicate ideas
such as cloud, forest, night, ocean, and heaven, as well as certain gods. Combinations of hand movements and foot stomps
(called karnas) can be used in the course of a dance to tell an entire story.

With only a brief fifteen-minute intermission, the dancers performed several solo dances and one dramatic presentation over a two-hour period.
Most of the dances were performed by either of the two male dancers and revolved around the story of the
life of the god Krishna.

Seven musicians provided the music and rhythm with instruments ranging from the familiar flute and violin to the guitar-like veena.
This unique blend of instrumentation as well as the complicated rhythmic structure sounds rather strange to the western ear as
there is little or no harmony evident in the music. The vocals and tonal instruments carried the melody simultaneously while
the drums emphasized each step of the dancer. Most impressive was the fact that the musicians played without the aid
of any written music.

Unfortunately, unless one was seated near the stage, it was impossible to see the makeup and expressiveness of the dancers
clearly. Of course, the people in the back of the auditorium fared much better than the people who didn’t come
at all.

The pleasures of fried bologna and a suntan

By TREY JAMMES

It's spring, and who wants to go to the same old places to eat. As a public service, The Davidsonian
has provided this space to enlighten its readers on new and exciting dining establishments.

Harbor Lights

Located on scenic Lake Norman, Harbor Lights provides the best atmosphere of any restaurant near Davidson. Seating is at picnic
tables overlooking the dock and on a sunny day suntan lotion and at least one hour are recommended to make
the experience complete.

The menu includes almost anything that can be cooked on a grill and not much else. My favorite is the
fried bologna sandwich with coleslaw, mustard, and tomato on it. While this may not sound great, it is much better
than the average bologna sandwich and is also a treat that cannot be found anywhere else.

The hamburgers take a few days to digest, but Coach John Byrd thinks they are the best greasy burgers he
has ever had. However, if you are planning to do anything athletic the rest of the day, I would suggest
steering clear of them.

All in all, Harbor Lights is not going to win any awards for its food. However, it does sell beer,
which always improves the taste; plus the atmosphere makes for a great spring afternoon adventure.

Harbor Lights is located about four miles from Davidson. To get there, continue west from Ham and Eggs for one
third of a mile. Turn right at a big Pepsi sign across from the Handy Pantry and then just follow
the signs. The hours are Tuesday through Friday 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., Saturday and Sunday 8 a.m. to 4
p.m. It costs about the same as McDonald's.

The Huddle

For a more varied menu, try The Huddle in Cornelius. The club sandwich on toast is a must if you
are a deli sandwich fan. It has turkey, ham, lettuce, cheese, tomato, and mayonnaise on three pieces of bread to
create an excellent and very filling sandwich. If you are not that hungry, the turkey and cheese sandwich is almost
the same only smaller.

The best corndogs in the area are also at The Huddle. If you have never had a corndog, The Huddle
is the place to try one.

The hamburgers are very similar to the Commons’ burgers, not bad, but not great either. Adding a side order of
tater tots, which are much better than the fries, along with a thick chocolate milkshake makes a good meal for
under four dollars.

The food does take a while to prepare, so if you are in a hurry, it is a good idea
to call your order in ahead of time. The number is 892-8468. If you do not mind the wait, you
can watch your favorite soaps on the giant screen television. On the weekends NASCAR races are usually shown along with
ACC basketball. The other attraction is a trivia game which can be played in almost exactly the amount of time
it takes to prepare the food.

The Huddle is open from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. every day. To get there head south on Main Street
past Cashion’s. It is easy to spot it on the right. The Huddle costs about $4.00 for an entree, side
order, and drink. Beer is sold for on-the-premises drinking.

Harbor Lights and The Huddle are just two of the many small restaurants in the Davidson area. Next week the
Lake House Restaurant and Cashion’s Deli will be reviewed.
