> THE DAVIDSONIAN
>
> Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
>
> John Gathings, Editor Emeritus
>
> Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor
>
> Will Thomason, Business Manager
>
> Jim Dillon, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
>
> Andy Ball, Features Editor
>
> Lee Bichelberger, Inside Art Editor
>
> Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
>
> Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
>
> Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
>
> Karen Bockus, Susan Wilkins, Advertising Managers
>
> Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager
>
> Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor
>
> Sports debacle
>
> Unfortunately for the alumni returning to last weekend’s Homecoming festivities, the football team lost another one-sided game, this week
51-14. We hope some of the trustees had a chance to see the game and witness the future of Davidson
football. The team that whipped the Wildcats last weekend was Lafayette, a member of the Colonial League. If you have
been following the Colonial League issue, you will remember Davidson has ended its 50-year association with the Southern Conference to
allow the football team to play “in a more competitive conference.” The Homecoming loss should show the trustees that the
problem with Davidson football lies not in playing in too demanding a conference, but in a program recovering from several
disastrous recruiting years by former coach Ed Farrell. Until Vic Gatto is given a few years to recruit good players,
Davidson will lose in whatever conference they choose to play.
>
> The move to the Colonial League is not the panacea the trustees and athletic director Kit Morris seem to
want so desperately for the football program, but it is poison to Davidson's remaining, and by-and-large successful, teams. With no
conference indicating a desire to embrace the marooned teams, the highly undesirable status of independent seems to be in Davidson's
future.
>
> As an independent, Davidson has no chance at an automatic NCAA bid in basketball and no conference championships, always
an inspirational goal for any team. Some would argue Davidson will eventually find a new conference and others say weaker
competition will give a welcomed boost to Davidson’s sagging winning percentage in such sports as tennis, soccer, field hockey, and
cross country. For the former, even if Davidson finds a new conference in the next three years, why sacrifice a
long history of fruitful Southern Conference rivalries so the football team can have, at best, a .500 record? Why risk
being trapped for any amount of time as an independent for such a small return? As for Davidson beating up
on a weaker conference such as the Big South, a few years of conference titles might occur; yet moving to
a conference that included Winthrop and Radford instead of Marshall and Appalachian State would suffocate recruiting in basketball, soccer, and
baseball. Would athletes such as Derek Rucker, Steve Ott, and Bill Masse have come to Davidson if it played in
the Big South and had no NCAA bid to play for? No way. Davidson's competition would drop in stature, but
so would Davidson's talent.
>
> In our view, the decision to enter the Colonial League at the cost of leaving the Southern Conference ranks
as the most short-sighted decision in the history of Davidson athletics. Happy Homecoming Trustees.
>
> The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The
Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2088, ext. 146 and 148. Offices located on the top floor of
the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views
of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal
rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.
>
> News Staff: Laura Ballenger, Andrea Diedrich, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, Laura Gabel.
>
> Features Staff: Jay Barron, Mark Chen, Lee Bichelberger, Scott Goodwin, Chris Haregrove, Steve Munk.Sports Staff: Eel! Cekada, Boyd Coggins,
Par Harmann, Perry Mathewes, Suyan Wilhans. Photography Staff: Alex Huyden, Linda Highie, Penelope Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, Matt Yam.
Staff Artists: Rechord Cloudt, Mike Setill. Production Staff: Sarah Bayne, Beth Bryson, Kim Crahtree, Amelia Fox, Clisby Hall, Pele Mangone,
Tom Moore, Kim Robertawn, Ibby Sowell, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Bea Yarbrough. Circulation Staff: Lucia Kcodalt.

Friday, October 24, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters To the Editors:

In a recent letter published in the Charlotte Observer, Caryn Coppedge described the results of “the Davidson College mock 9th
District congressional election.” According to her account, “Davidson students ‘voted’ 60.5 percent to 39.5 percent to reelect Rep. Alex McMillan
over his Democratic challenger and Davidson alumnus D.G. Martin.”

Caryn’s letter implies that most Davidson students participated in the election. Yet, many students that we talked with did not
find out about the election until after the “polls” had closed. Mock elections usually have a limited number of participants
and are not a statistically valid measure of a group's opinions. Consequently, the Davidson referendum could not have accurately reflected
the political preferences of the entire student body. In addition, the College Republicans sponsored the Oct. 1 election. This partisan
affiliation may have discouraged some students from participating in what may have seemed a biased election.

We wonder how many Davidson students are familiar with the two candidates and their issue positions. Much of the student
body lives outside North Carolina, and the overwhelming majority reside outside the 9th congressional district. As a result, many Davidson
students will not have the opportunity to vote for either candidate on Nov. 4.

We applaud Caryn's efforts to stimulate political interest on the Davidson campus. We ask, however, that she and all political
participants refrain from making broad generalizations that lack factual support. North Carolinians have already endured enough political inaccuracy and distortion.

Patrick Sellers '86
Stephen Bryant '89

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we will adhere
to the following guidelines:
- The letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. the Tuesday before the expected publication date.
- The letters must be neatly typed.
- The letters should be signed. You must have a compelling reason if you do not want your name printed
with the letter.
- We reserve the right not to print letters which are advertisements, contain inside jokes or off-color slurs, or represent
a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed on the same topic.

The Davidsonian's “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions
on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community. We adhere to the following guidelines:
- Any opinion should be in to us by 7 p.m. the Monday before publication, unless it is typed on
an IBM 5.25” diskette, in which case it is due 5 p.m. Tuesday.
- We accept typed and legibly-written articles only.
- Opinions should be signed. We will only print unsigned ones if there is a compelling reason and the author
is known to us (the editors).
- We will not edit opinions for content or style, but for common English usage only. We will inform the
author of substantial changes.
- Because of limited space, sometimes we are not able to print all opinions submitted in one issue. We reserve
the right to select articles from those we receive for publication. We will attempt to put any withheld article in
the following week.
