Friday, January 17, 1986

THE DAVIDSONIAN

[Beyond Davidson]

Headlining the news for the week of Jan. 9-15:

Middle East news — In response to the total economic sanctions imposed upon his country by the U.S., Libyan leader
Qaddafi accused the U.S. of trying to topple his regime and threatened to attack U.S. military bases in Europe; security
provisions have been taken by the U.S. Italy and Canada have joined Reagan’s plea for sanctions against Qaddafi’s regime. The
U.S. is blaming Libya for harboring and supporting Abu Nidal, the terrorist group accused of December’s airport bombings in Rome
and Vienna causing U.S. casualties. In related developments: Security forces in Scandinavia and the Netherlands have been placed on full
alert in reaction to threats from Abu Nidal on Jewish and Israeli institutions; U.S. domestic and commercial offices have been
included in this alert. Meanwhile, last week Israel announced its plans to join the U.S. in the research and development
of the Strategic Defense Initiative. On Monday, Israel and Egypt agreed to submit the resolution of the Taba territorial dispute
to international arbitration; Taba is the 250-acre beachfront resort captured by Israel in the 1967 Arab-Israeli War. Also on Monday,
an Iranian ship stopped and searched a U.S. freighter nearing the Persian Gulf. The Iranian ship was searching for weapons
bound for Iran’s enemy, Iraq, and released the U.S. ship after finding none. It is undecided whether the Iranian action
was a breach of international law. Finally, the state-run radio in Marxist South Yemen reported that President Ali Nasser Mohammed
survived an unsuccessful coup attempt.

Latin American news — In Venezuela this week, the Contadora Group — Venezuela, Panama, Colombia, and Mexico — met to
attempt a revitalization of their Central American peace effort. Under a scholarship fund initiated by the Kissinger Commission, 154 college
students from seven Central American countries arrived in the U.S. on Monday. Meanwhile, Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega wrote a letter
to eight other Latin American presidents asking for their help in arranging peace talks between U.S. Secretary of State George
Shultz and Nicaraguan Foreign Minister Miguel D’Escoto. In Guatemala, Vinicio Cerezo was sworn in as the country’s first civilian president
in over 16 years.

South African news — Speaking to reporters in Washington last Friday, South African Bishop Desmond Tutu said that unless economic
pressures are applied and blacks are given political powers, South Africa is “ripe for explosion.” Calling it a “symbol of
corporate complicity” with the government of South Africa, a consumer boycott was launched against Shell Oil by U.S. opponents of
apartheid. Also in the U.S., the nation’s major Catholic, Protestant, and Orthodox churches are organizing a major anti-apartheid campaign to
press for comprehensive government economic sanctions and commercial divestiture. After a two-day visit to South Africa, Chester Crocker, the architect
of the U.S. policy toward South Africa called “constructive engagement,” said he rejected increasing U.S. sanctions as an effective means
for helping to dismantle apartheid.

Other internationally related news — Last week, shocking Thatcher’s conservative government, Britain’s Secretary of Defense resigned. A new pact between
Greece and the U.S. will allow for the sale of 40 U.S. F16 fighter planes to Greece. President Reagan will
name Frank Wisner as ambassador to Egypt to replace Nicholas Veliotes, who resigned last week. An eleven-member congressional delegation visiting
East Berlin met with communist President Erich Honecker and urged the tearing down of the Berlin Wall. Administration sources report
that President Reagan is planning a trip to Grenada next month to show off the economic progress made by that
nation since the 1983 military invasion. Several private consulting firms in the U.S. have reported being contacted by the governments
of the U.S.S.R. and Angola for public relations advice; some see this as an ethical dilemma while others see it
as a natural outgrowth of a “thaw” in U.S.-Soviet relations. In the meantime, Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze is in
Japan on an official visit.

In National News — In an article written for the New York Times Magazine, President Reagan has called on all
citizens to join in a national effort to eradicate organized crime in America. According to a new report from the
Physicians Task Force on Hunger, hunger in America is on the increase with 150 counties fitting the criteria of having
more than 20 percent of their households living below the poverty level and less than one-third of those eligible receiving
food stamps. In 1985, only one in three jobless workers received unemployment benefits. Eastman Kodak received a court order to
stop making and selling instant photographic products. Those who own Kodak instant cameras may exchange them for one share of
Kodak stock, a $50 coupon book, or a new disc camera. A nasal spray made with the hormone interferon has
been found effective in the prevention of the common cold; the spray is not yet available to the public. After
seven aborted launch efforts, the space shuttle Columbia took off on Sunday for a five-day mission; Florida Representative Bill Nelson
was among the seven-member crew. Actress Donna Reed, 64, died of cancer on Tuesday. Finally, Monday will mark the first
observation of the national holiday honoring Martin Luther King Jr.

Thought for the week — “There is no duty we so much underrate as the duty of being happy.” —
Robert Louis Stevenson

Morris discusses possible Conference switch

By ANDREA DIEDRICH and JEFF LESESNE

The following is the conclusion of the Davidsonian’s interview with athletic director Kit Morris.

D: After we join the Colonial Football League, will our other athletic teams be allowed to continue to compete in
the Southern Conference? If not, what are our alternatives?

M: That’s not a question that’s been resolved in a finite way. What the Southern Conference has said is that
when we no longer meet the...scheduling requirements for football and basketball, and that would be in the 87-88 school year,
then we will no longer enjoy Conference membership. More Conference regulations were in effect in the past when Davidson College
was granted a waiver for football participation for a period of about ten years. Although I’m not hanging all my
hopes on that one star that we might be granted a waiver again, I’ve certainly been speaking long and often
with my colleagues in the Southern Conference to try to persuade them that the opportunity to remain in the Conference
would be a good thing for both us and them. It’s not the only option we’re pursuing at this time.
Over the long pull, I see independent status as being unattractive and unaffordable, so we’re trying to investigate what else
may be available and what else would be a good fit for what we’re trying to do.

D: Is there any particular alternative to the Southern Conference that we are investigating?

M: As an alternative to the Southern Conference, probably the thing that looms on the horizon that would be most
attractive would be a league that until this year was known as the ECAC South and is now called the
Colonial Athletic Association. Their headquarters are based in Richmond and the member schools are Navy, American University, George Mason, James
Madison, William and Mary, Richmond, UNC Wilmington, and East Carolina. Three of those schools used to be in the Southern
Conference and were in the Conference the last time we won a championship in football or basketball. We’ve played a
number of those schools over the years. It focuses our competition more to the north than to the south and
west.

D: What plans do you have to improve the football record next year and what kind of recruiting will you
be or are you doing?

M: Although there is a limited period of time beginning the first of December when you can speak to prospects
face to face off campus, this fall a number of our coaches were out two days per week speaking with
high school coaches in North and South Carolina trying to rebuild some contacts that had lapsed over the years. They
went into high schools where a Davidson coach had not been seen in five or six years. I think if
you ignore the talent that’s in your backyard or ignore those relationships, then you’re probably not going to be as
successful as you might be. We’ve also gone a little bit further afield in terms of our search for prospects,
and we've had a number of recruiting weekends so far and continue to plan on having those throughout the winter.
There were about 23 prospective football players on campus last weekend who got to enjoy the Davidson lifestyle and go
to the coliseum and watch us beat UNCC. These are some of the things that are happening. I think some
of the other things that have to happen relate to some facilities improvements. Certainly, the addition of a lighted field
somewhere on campus to be able to schedule practices at a time that doesn’t conflict with classes or labs is
going to be very important. I think the most important thing to which you can devote your resources is manpower
and human potential. I think that coach Gatto represents a new and refreshing attitude towards football and athletics, and one
that I think will blend well with what the community here wants. He is innovative; he is thoughtful; and he
is aggressive. Certainly, it is my hope that those will produce dividends in the coming years.

D: What significant changes have you made in the athletic program since you've been here and what changes do you
anticipate making in the future?

M: Perhaps the greatest change is that there have been very few unilateral changes. The decisions that we've tried to
make have been based on the cultivation of a consensus. I don’t know whether there are major markers one can
point to to say these things have happened, certainly the move into the Colonial League in football, which the trustees
have approved, sets the course for that sport well into the future. The initiation of plans for fundraising and construction
of a modern sports complex on campus is something that is certainly exciting, something that I play a role in,
although the timeliness of the project itself, more so than any principles involved, is the driving force there. Johnston Gym
is a fine and glorious building that in 1985 has grown a little weary with age and no longer meets
the needs of a student population for which it was planned. Certainly, some efforts in the area of women's athletics
and trying to charter a successful course for its future have been something that has received a lot of energy,
but that energy has not necessarily manifested itself in any specific actions that you can speak to. The development of
a captain's council, where I sit down with the captains of our various sports periodically during the year and talk
with them about Davidson athletics, is a new project. The plans, yet to be instituted, for a student committee on
athletics where a group of students representing a broad range of athletics interests, from recreational to varsity sports to club
sports, is something I hope to get going early in the next year. I have been on the road a
fair amount of time speaking with alumni and friends groups to help re-energize a relationship with the athletics department. Certainly,
internally I've been far more cautious about moves relative to structure although we are beginning to require greater detail in
the budget development process. We are asking all coaches to file end-of-season reports in their sports that have not been
required in the past, and looking at the current resources on the staff here and trying to think ahead to
the future administrative structure of this department.
