Opinions

Poverty, contras oppressors of Nicaragua

Linda Tatsapaugh

Nicaragua — to many, just the name conjures up the feeling of a festering wound. Staunch supporters of aid to the contras have locked horns with equally stubborn opponents, putting the issue into a heated stalemate. There is obviously not a united American sentiment. But the issue of United States involvement is not one that can be brushed aside, so some definite decisions must be made soon. I believe a closer look at the current situation will allow for more intelligent solutions.

First of all, it would be wise to be familiar with the side we (the U.S.) are supporting. The contras are not a united force, but rather several groups rebelling for as many reasons. They include hold-outs from Somoza’s National Guard (the overthrown force in the revolution), Mosquito Indians from the east who feel they have been mistreated by the government, and several other bands of Nicaraguans dissatisfied with the government. Their only common interest is the overthrow of the government. The little leadership they share comes from the United States. This is why Ortega calls Reagan “the chief of the contras.” These groups are violence-oriented, destroying not military bases, but farm villages. They have not assumed control of any towns they have attacked, preferring rather to destroy and run. Most of their supplies are bought with U.S. dollars both through government-supplied humanitarian aid and privately-raised military aid. Without United States support, these groups could not survive.

If the contras were able to defeat the current government, who would assume leadership? More than likely, a struggle among the contra groups would ensue. And would the country really benefit by being governed by terrorists? I realize the Sandinistas also employed terrorist tactics during the revolution, but that does not justify terrorism, and only points out that the two sides are equally wrong in their military techniques. It must also be remembered that the Sandinistas led a popular revolution of the people. The contras do not.

The next question is who are we attacking and why? President Reagan and his supporters claim the Sandinistas are communists, and as such will soon invade neighboring countries in an attempt to rule the world, if we do not stop them. There are a number of falsehoods here. First, the Sandinistas are not communists. Ortega claims to be a Marxist, but that does not automatically link him with any communist group. In fact, there is a communist party in Nicaragua. It was the only party which won no seats in the legislature. This brings up another misconception — Nicaragua is not ruled solely by the Sandinistas. They hold 60 percent of the seats, leaving the other 40 percent to five other parties. The Sandinistas are the middle group of the seven Nicaraguan parties. This is a far cry from the communist form of government.

President Reagan seems to want to create another Red Scare by accusing Ortega’s administration of Communism. The only “proof” he has to this claim is Ortega’s associations with Cuba and the Soviet Union. He does not seem to realize that it was the United States policy which drove him to these countries. Ortega and many other Nicaraguans have repeatedly emphasized their desire for independence from all countries. So we are fighting what we fear might happen — not an actual situation.

What about the citizens of Nicaragua? Are they awaiting the freedom fighters to release them? From what? The two major oppressors of the people are the poverty and the contras. The government is working on both, but more could be done in the poverty struggle if money did not have to be spent so heavily on the military. So far, the government has implemented agrarian reform programs and provided food and immunizations for its citizens. True, some rights have been restricted, but that can only be expected in a time of war. The churches are very active and an opposition newspaper is allowed to be printed. Even visiting Americans may walk the streets uninhibited. The government is clearly no more oppressive than any democracy would be in a similar situation.

Many people have seen the injustice of U.S. aid to the contras and have reacted in protest. The Witness for Peace organization places U.S. citizens in contra-attacked areas in an attempt to thwart invasions by U.S.-supported contras. The Presbyterian Peacemaking Center offers a six-week work-study internship in Nicaragua in the summer. Many churches have made official statements denouncing the U.S. position. The Pledge of Resistance has been signed by many people willing to stage demonstrations against government actions aiding the contras. Most editorials in the major U.S. newspapers criticize Reagan’s policy. But Washington refuses to acknowledge the voice of America.

On April 15, the House of Representatives will reconsider sending aid to the contras. There are several options to choose from. Most involve delayed aid with an effort toward negotiations. That would be like holding a million-dollar threat over the talks, effectively ruining any positive notions. One alternative, the Hamilton proposal, is promising. It calls for no aid, but negotiations with Ortega through the Contadora, a group representing most of the other Latin American countries, which has the support of most of the world in its efforts to effect peace. The Hamilton proposal would guarantee the end of U.S. military exercises in the area and resumed trade providing Nicaragua gives up its Cuban and Soviet advisors and agrees to a cease-fire. Restoring friendly relations with Nicaragua would not necessarily mean a loss of influence either. Nicaragua has for many years been economically dependent on the U.S. in terms of imports. If trade were restored between the countries, the pull of the U.S. would merely change to a positive arena.

Two noteworthy people have recently offered hope for positive action. President Ortega’s wife recently planned to attend a drug-abuse seminar in Atlanta hosted by Nancy Reagan. Unfortunately, she...was denied a visa. The possibilities if the two women had proven their ability to work together are tremendous. Their husbands would have had something to live up to. In February, Jimmy and Rosalyn Carter, unbeknownst to the American public, visited Nicaragua, not on a political fact-finding mission, but as part of an effort to improve life for the people. Our former first couple built houses for the poor, working with Habitat for Humanity, a U.S.-based group which encourages community development in many nations. It makes one wonder what the Nicaraguan situation might be under different U.S. leadership. It is scary to think that one man could incite a nation to blind injustice. I urge you to use your own conscience, and call your representative with your conclusion before the 15th. Tatsapaugh is a sophomore from Greensboro, N.C.

Nicaragua has right to self-determination
Jon Boles
Darek Newby
Edward Tae Kim

In 1776, the United States declared its independence from Great Britain in reaction to the exploitation of the colonies by George III. In this historic act, the U.S. established the precedent for the right of national self-determination. However, soon after gaining this new freedom, the U.S. proved to have a short memory. The adoption of the Monroe Doctrine in 1823 served as a foundation for later political, economic, and military intervention by the U.S. in Latin America. Starting in the late 1840s, during the administration of James Polk, the U.S. began challenging British control over the area of Central America. From that point onward, the involvement of the U.S. in Central America has increased, resulting in a progressive worsening of the situation.

The main focus of activity in Latin America today is Nicaragua. The Reagan administration has indicated its intent to force the Sandinista government to cry “Uncle” by its support for the Contras. The most recent display of this support has been in the form of a $100 million aid package to the Contra movement. What is the justification for such an action? According to the administration, the Nicaraguan government poses a Communist threat to the security of the U.S. In response to such assertions, certain facts should be pointed out which indicate that the administration's policy is in error.

Prior to its establishment, the current Nicaraguan government indicated its intent to preserve Nicaragua's right of self-determination and to maintain a non-aligned international status. After the revolution in 1979 and the stripping of the country by Somoza, Nicaragua was in a state of economic turmoil similar to that which Cuba experienced in 1959-61. Also similar to the Cubans, the government of Nicaragua requested aid from the United States, in hope of establishing friendly relations. Their attempts, however, were in vain. In the fall of 1979 President Carter responded to these requests by asking the Congress to grant a $75 million aid package. Congress delayed direct action on the matter until January 1980. In addition, seventeen conditions were attached to the aid offer. The Nicaraguan government found these conditions unacceptable. Abandoned and in economic peril, they were forced to turn to the Soviet Union and Cuba for assistance. This aid, which mainly served an economic function, the U.S. interpreted as having a completely political function, i.e., indicating a move toward Soviet Communism.

Communism, however, like Democracy, is not a homogeneous ideology. Sandino Communism is non-expansionist. It is instead concerned with internal progress and stability. The government indicated this in January 1984 by agreeing with the general tenets of the Contadora Process, which would require “the reduction of military forces, ending all outside support... of rebels and counter-revolutionaries,” the institution of free elections, and “revitalization of the Central American Common Market while establishing equitable domestic economic and social systems.” The most notable reforms have been initiated in the areas of health and education.

The U.S. government, however, has persisted in its insistence that the Nicaraguan government poses a threat to its security, and its reaction was to support the Contras and to engage in such terrorist activities as the mining of the harbor of Managua. These actions alienated the Nicaraguan government and forced them even further away from the United States, politically as well as economically. In addition, it was only after the Contras, supported by the government of the U.S., began to undermine the newfound stability of the country, that the government was forced to tighten its grip. This reaction is not unique to Nicaragua. After all, the United States took control of certain sectors of its economy during World War II. The motive for this was national self-preservation, a motive with which the Nicaraguan government is quite familiar.

In consideration of these factors, it appears very clear that the administration's $100 million aid package will only serve to further alienate the Sandinistas and be a source of further instability. What other alternatives are available? We feel that the first step should be to reject the administration’s proposal to appropriate additional funds for the Contras. Furthermore, direct negotiations should be opened with the Nicaraguan government. These must be founded upon a sincere willingness to seek cooperation between the two countries. Finally, particular attention should be given to the Contadora Process and its potential to ensure stability in Central America.

We must remember that Nicaragua is a sovereign country. It has the same right of self-determination as did the United States in 1776. It is our right, and perhaps our duty, to assist in the development of Nicaragua, but not to determine how that development should take place. We feel that the administration would meet with more success in attempting to create and preserve stability by working with the Nicaraguan government rather than against it.

For further information and understanding of this issue, see Walter LaFeber's Inevitable Revolutions: The United States in Central America, W. W. Norton and Company, 1984.

Newby, Boles, and Tae Kim are sophomores.