2

Parade of new faculty continues
By AARON LEVINE

Lakshmanan Sabaratnam

One of the new faculty at Davidson this year is Sri Lankan Lakshmanan Sabaratnam, instructor of Sociology. His specialty is inequality in society. Sabaratnam had many good things to say about the Davidson faculty, especially the sociology department: “Their experience compliments my experience.” He especially likes the non-traditional point of view of many of the department members, such as an expertise in Meso American or third world “life.”

In his eyes, Davidson students are better than many other students he has taught in America. They are “motivated” and “serious.” He also points out: “Davidson is close to places I know back home, the town matches small community life I am familiar with.” Sabaratnam also likes the access to the “research triad” in northern North Carolina.

Sabaratnam received his B.A. at the University of Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) in 1974, and his M.A. and Ph.D. at the University of Washington at Seattle in 1978 and 1984 respectively. Having had visiting appointments at the University of Washington, Portland State (Oregon), and the University of Puget Sound (Washington) before coming to Davidson, Sabaratnam is teaching Introductory Sociology and Comparative Approaches to the American Family. Some of his hobbies are reading and Zen meditation. An Anglican, Sabaratnam states that the “formality of the church service and many aspects of the Christian religion drove me to look for more personal satisfaction. I thought I needed to find a way to calm myself and discipline my mind.” Zen is an idea that can be applied to varied religions.

Dr. William Ringle

In the restructuring of the sociology/anthropology department at Davidson for this year, one of the new professors joining the department is Dr. William Ringle, a professional archeologist specializing in the prehistory of Meso America. This term he is teaching Anthropology 101 and 107. This is his first major teaching post, having worked in a lab setting for a number of years.

Presently, Ringle is involved with a project centering around the Mayan archeological site of Ek Balan near Valladolid in the Yucatan of Mexico. It is a survey project with Tulane; he hopes Davidson can be involved with it as well someday. One question he is trying to answer is “why did the city have walls?” Ringle would like to have an archeology lab established at Davidson in the future, saying that “archeology is valuable because it provides a perspective on man a thousand times longer than history. The field allows people of any interest to participate.” He even mentioned the future possibility of a SYA in Meso America: “It is safer to walk the streets of Yucatan.”

Continued from page 1

...can dissent openly but that there is a measure of concern for everyone else,” Kuykendall said. Although the Board will make plans for the college’s budget for 1987-88 in February, Kuykendall said the Board will not necessarily act on the committee's recommendation at that time. He noted that modifications can be made in the budget with respect to any change in investments at any time before July 1, 1987, at which time the budget goes into effect.than of Charlotte.” A native of New Orleans, Ringle obtained his B.A. in Humanities from Johns Hopkins, his M.A. in anthropology, and his Ph.D. in 1985 from Tulane. When asked why he went for a Humanities degree, Ringle mentioned that Johns Hopkins did not have an anthropology department, and that the field of archeology can draw many different types of expertise, including that of the liberal arts.

Thanks Y'all!
Diana Titus-Allen
Karen Kemerait
Jackie Daughtery
Steve Davis
Laura Webb
Sarah Whitesides
Melissa Dilettuso
Maurya McNeil
Elizabeth Boone
David Ethridge
Hart Win Mathis
Alex Maultsby
Randy Ingram
Amy Cheek
Sudeep Sen
Dave Fitzgerald
Dave Murrell
Steve Bayle

By BETSEY BRYAN

Shaw Smith

Dr. Shaw Smith, professor of art history, returns to Davidson after a two-year absence, during which he taught at the University of Denver. Smith received a B.A. in English and an M.A. and Ph.D. in art history at the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill before studying at the Sorbonne, where he specialized in 19th-century French art, especially the work of Eugene Delacroix. Smith earned a post-doctoral fellowship at Yale University’s British Art Center. The author of a book on the work of Luis Francia, Smith will contribute an article next year to a French retrospective on Francia. Smith tries to encourage his students to realize that “art is not merely beautiful, it is powerful.” His particular interest is the relationship between art and politics, which he calls the “social approach” to art. Although Smith enjoyed his sojourn in Denver and will miss watching the Denver Broncos, who he predicts will go to the Super Bowl, he is glad to be back at Davidson. He approves of recent administrative changes, and he notes with a smile, “The students don’t change — they’re always good.”

Charles Abne
Jane Campbell
John Hiott
Bob Sherrill
Rich Rod
P. Bradley
Eric Whyte
Ann Pives
Eunice Hiott
Florie Snively
Howard Humphries
Brett Anake
Loha Lohani
Harrell Aikman

Friday, October 10, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Catherine Martinengo

Dr. Catherine Martinengo arrived in the United States for the first time on September 2, but she has adjusted easily to life at Davidson. Martinengo, who comes from France, earned a B.A. in French and an M.A. in ergonomics at the University of Montpelier. She then completed her Ph.D. at the Sorbonne. Her specialty is teaching linguistics to foreigners, and she has spent the last nine years teaching intensive language courses at several universities; most recently she was in Switzerland at Eurocentre, an internationally known language specialty school. Martinengo has adapted readily to Davidson, although she finds some things, such as a library that stays open until 1:00 a.m., “very astonishing.” Martinengo notes that students at Davidson are more concerned with success and grades than their French counterparts. She also remarks that students here frequently yawn and seem exhausted. “At first, I was afraid it was my class,” she says smiling wisely as she adds, “But I think there are many other papers and subjects to do.”

Co-Curricular Vice-President

These people made ‘Ceremonies in Dark Old Men’ possible.