Friday, April 25, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

defendant the benefit of the doubt, to the extent that such doubt exists. But these attacks are so personal, against
members of the Council itself. If there are flaws in the Codes, we should all talk about them and change
things. Fine. But the Council is not a group of headhunters who feed on innocent people. Defendants are innocent until
proven guilty beyond a shadow of a doubt. We're all friends here.

Sayres S. Rudy

Argument

To the Editors:
It’s a shame when a writer takes the time to research a topic, present a reasonable analysis, and support his
conclusion, only to find a response that is not researched, not reasonable, and poorly supported. Two weeks ago Tim Brown
wrote an article suggesting the US improve its Special Operations Forces because they are necessary and because they need improvement.
Brown supported his argument with clear facts and a good case study — the disastrous rescue mission attempted in Iran
during the Carter Administration. Following that attempt to save the American hostages, we all learned the screens on the helicopters
used in the mission were not the right gauge to keep sand out of the engines. The mission took place
in the desert. There is sand in the desert. With respect to those who died in the brave effort, Brown
and I are concerned that our secret forces are not as effective as they should be.

Last week Donald Kropp responded to Brown's article by mocking Brown’s diction, claiming Brown doesn’t know what he’s talking about,
and using logic that would amuse a troglodyte. Kropp said Brown can't know what he’s talking about because secret forces
are secret and because Brown has never been to Airborne School, “Special Ops” (ooooh, the lingo) exercises, and Iran or
Grenada. First, secret forces are not absolutely secret. If one researches, as Brown clearly has, one can find out a
great deal. Second, to suggest an American should not consider himself sufficiently knowledgeable to comment on America’s military simply because
he has not been in the military is profane and absurd in its implications. Third, I know people who were
in both Iran and Grenada and from what I've heard, Brown's moderate recommendation is well-founded.

And as for logic, listen to this. Dig up last week's Davidsonian if you don’t believe Kropp put this in
print: “Special Operations training is extremely well-planned and organized. It has to be; real lives are at risk.” Does the
absurdity of that logic speak for itself, or must I mention that therefore Vietnam was extremely well organized?

Sayres Rudy

SPRING GOLD SALE

Friday and Saturday May 2 & 3 ONLY!!!

Just in Time for Mother’s Day and Graduation!

Large Assortment of 14 kt. Gold: chains, charms, bracelets, rings, & earrings

Presentation of this coupon worth
Mother’s Day Special!!!
30% OFF!!!

All purchases of colored stone, diamond, & pearl items thru Saturday, May 10, 1986

STUDENTS: 20% discount cards are available upon request.

(Discount not applicable during sales)

Exit 28 off I-77
Rt. 2, Hwy 73W
Norman Landing Shopping Plaza
Cornelius, N.C.

Ltd Fine Jewelry & Gifts Jewelry Repair

Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 10 a.m.- 7 p.m. Sat.: 10 a.m.- 6 p.m.

892-6278

featuring entertainment by Rebecca Bend

imported beer, wine by the glass, munchies and sandwiches!!!

from 6-8 pm.

$1 cover.

For a Great Selection of SWIM TRUNKS, WALKING, TENNIS, and JOGGING SHORTS, plus JAMS ... and a host of good-looking
tops too!!!

Union National Bank

Downtown Davidson Huntersville Cornelius

Mon.-Th. 9-5 Fri. 9-6

UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA AT CHAPEL HILL 1986 SUMMER SESSION CALENDAR

Term I
May 19 - Registration Day
May 20 - 1st Day of Classes
May 21 - Late Registration
May 26 - Holidays
June 20 - Last Day of Classes
June 23-24 - Final Examinations

Term II
June 30 - Registration Day
July 1 - 1st Day of Classes
July 2 - Late Registration
July 4 - Holidays
Aug. 1 - Last Day of Classes
Aug. 4-5 - Final Examinations

* For a catalog and application forms please telephone (919) 966-4364 or complete and mail the coupon below to: Summer
Session, 102 Peabody Hall, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27514.

Name

Street

City

State
