4 ery + x ; — . — Beyond Davidson | | Friday, September 26, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

U.S.-Soviet relations highlight week

By DAVID WILLIAMS

Headlining the News for Sept. 9-25

NATO and Warsaw Pact negotiators reached agreement Sunday on a major security pact to lessen the risk of war in
Europe. The agreement calls for the two alliances to give each other detailed advance information about land exercises and troop
concentrations involving 13,000 or more soldiers or 300 tanks.

Delegates from 74 member nations of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) approved a far-reaching agenda for trade
liberalization talks, including discussion of reductions in agricultural subsidies, restrictions on foreign investment, and barriers to trade in such services
as banking and insurance.

President Reagan told the U.N. that recent arms control exchanges between the U.S. and the Soviets may signal “the beginning
of a serious, productive negotiation on arms reduction.” But Reagan later told a group of conservative supporters that the Soviets
are a group of “relentless adversaries” who are playing “propaganda games” with their calls for a ban on nuclear testing.
Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev proposed that adherence to the 1972 antiballistic missile treaty be extended for “up to 15 years.”

Soviet officials put direct total costs of the Chernobyl accident at about $2.95 billion. The reactor emitted as much radiation
into the air as all the nuclear tests and bombs ever exploded, according to a newly released study.

In a rebuff to President Reagan, Gorbachev charged that American journalist Nicholas Daniloff is a “spy caught red-handed.” Reagan met
with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze and warned him that the detention of Daniloff could block the proposed summit meeting,
but Shevardnadze said Tuesday that a summit meeting was still a “realistic possibility.” U.S. and Soviet officials later discussed a
package calling for the release of Daniloff and several Soviet dissidents in exchange for Soviet embassy attache Gennadi Zakharov.

Two armed Soviet drug addicts attempted to hijack an airliner on the ground in the city of Ufa, killing two
policemen and two passengers before the hijackers themselves were shot dead.

Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres considered normalizing relations between Israel and the Soviet Union. Meanwhile, Israeli Defense Minister Yitzhak Shamir
told the U.N. that Israel would not dismantle its “security zone” in Lebanon. Israel staged significant troop movements along the
Lebanese border, and on Wednesday Israeli jets bombed Palestinian positions near Beirut.

A clandestine group in Beirut said it has kidnapped another French citizen and also claimed responsibility for the abduction of
an American two weeks ago. French Prime Minister Jacques Chirac said he has no proof that any government was behind
the recent terrorist bombings in Paris, but promised a “crushing and unflinching” response to the perpetrators of the bombings, if
they are caught.

Iranian soldiers marked the seventh year of war against Iraq by marching in Tehran past crowds chanting “Death to the
U.S.” Iranian leader Khomeini said Iran would not end the war until President Saddam Hussein of Iraq was ousted.

Polish Solidarity leader LechWalesa held strategy talks Sunday with more than a dozen senior Solidarity figures. On Monday, 45,000 workers
from all over Poland gathered in Czestochowa at a Roman Catholic shrine to join in a reaffirmation of the democratic
ideals of the Solidarity movement. About 50 dissidents attempted a coup on the government of Togo Wednesday by attacking the
military barracks of President Gnassingbe Eyadema in Lome. The attackers were put down by security forces. President Oliver Tambo of
the African National Congress (ANC), and Chester Crocker, the U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for African affairs, met Wednesday in
London to discuss how the U.S. and the ANC can “move forward to resolving” the South African crisis. South Africa’s
largest black miners’ union asked its 250,000 members to stop work on Oct. 1 to mourn 177 miners killed in
last week’s gold mine fire. On Friday, a group of black police officers led by two whites shot five blacks
to death in Soweto. A Soviet-designed limpet mine exploded Wednesday in the Johannesburg home of a white official responsible for
housing policies in Soweto.

Across the Nation — President Reagan criticized the House for provisions on arms control it has added to bills involving
military funding. The Senate approved a budget-cutting package that would reduce the 1987 federal deficit by $13.3 billion. The House
approved a similar package designed to reduce the deficit by $15.1 billion. The White House, which supports the Senate measures,
threatened a veto on the House’s bill. The House also voted 329-4 to strengthen a law on chemical pesticides that
would affect nearly 50,000 products. A New Jersey federal judge ruled that mandatory urine testing of government employees for the
detection of illegal drugs is an unconstitutional invasion of an individual’s right to privacy. NASA Director James Fletcher announced that
NASA’s space shuttle schedule will include only 19 launches in the first three years after the shuttle resumes operations in
early 1988. The Federal Aviation Administration said it would order the installation of collision-avoidance systems in passenger jets by 1990.

A national survey released Wednesday shows that 95 out of 100 young adults can read as well as the average
fourth grader, but the literacy skills of many of them are very limited.

In Business News — Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker said the dollar had dropped enough in relation to currencies of
other industrial nations and that policymakers should shift to other tools to redress imbalances in the world economy. The gross
national product rose only 0.6 percent in the second quarter. The Consumer Price Index rose 0.2 percent in August, according
to Labor Department figures. Orders for durable goods fell 2.6 percent in August. Sales of American-made automobiles rose 1.7 percent
in the Sept. 11-20 period over the corresponding 1985 period. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed Wednesday at 1803.29 points,
up 33.89 points from a week ago. Gold prices rose to $431 an ounce, up $27.50, while silver was $5.913,
up 15.7 cents.
