Friday, October 10, 1986

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By TED WILSON

Under the leadership of the International Committee, students representing countries from all parts of the world gathered on Chambers’ lawn last Saturday for Davidson's International Festival.

Students constructed booths displaying maps, posters, postcards, and books from countries such as France, Mexico, Nepal, China, South Africa, Zambia, Austria, India, Scotland, Lebanon, and Hungary. The International House of Charlotte was also represented. In addition to providing political and cultural information on these countries, several students prepared food from the country they represented. The Commons also set up a concession stand of its own.

Bilal El Amine, chairman of the International Committee, said that one of the goals of the festival was “to get the community involved. However, that really didn’t work that well.” He said, “though the students really did enjoy it, there were few members of the community there.” El Amine attributed the low community participation to a lack of direct publicity in the community, such as leaving pamphlets at individual homes and orally urging residents to attend. However, he said that overall it was a very successful event and that “we'll have a strong International Committee because it was so strong.”

Many students remarked that it was the best festival they had been to here. Asked why he thought this year’s International Day was better than those in recent years, El Amine said, “In years past, it was always held inside, on some obscure day, in the Union. Everyone put their booth together, prepared some food, and just smiled. This year we wanted to be active. We wanted to have an effect on the students and not just set up displays.” He added that this year’s committee was “more ambitious. We added entertainment — which grew to include bands, dancers, drummers, etc.” In addition, the presence of the Commons’ food stand put the festival on a larger scale and boosted the morale of everyone.

As far as what El Amine wanted participants to gain from the event, he said, “We tried to orient it toward education and politics so that we could have more of an impact than a foreign film,” which often provides just a glimpse of the cultural aspects of a country. Many of the international students who participated considered the festival a success also. Suman Kudav of India said, “It was a representation of different nations coming together. People from various backgrounds came together in one place and united. We are all one — we are all human beings. We may be from different places but we are all brothers and sisters.”

Alex Hayden

Students from five countries spending year here

By TED WILSON

Each year Davidson’s community gains a new international flavor as students from around the world join the student body. This year, eight students from Mexico, France, West Germany, India, and the People’s Republic of China have enrolled as one-year students. Since these students are only here for one year, their goals are somewhat different from those of the typical Davidson student who is studying for a bachelor’s degree in arts or science.

Berard Masse, of Montpellier, France, said, “my aim is to improve my English through courses and experiences.” Beatriz Martinez, from Guadalajara, Mexico, added, “I want to give Davidson students an idea of what Mexico and other Latin American countries are like. They have some distorted views such as about poverty.” Suman Kudva, of Karnataka, India, said, “I’m very interested in the American way of life.”of life and understanding this country and people.” She also wants to “try to get access to the science and technology here since this atmosphere is the most advanced on the planet. Since I’m so fortunate to be here, I hope to make the best of this opportunity by using the computers and taking science courses, meeting other people.” He added, “I’m also studying French history to see how the American approach differs from the European way of teaching it.”

Asked if they were shocked by anything in America when they first set foot in the country, Thierry Rousset, also of Montpellier, said his aim was to “discover a new culture and to present my culture to American students.” International students had various responses. Rousset said, “Parties! There is a very high percentage of drunk people here. In France, you don’t drink to get drunk. It’s more like social drinking.” He said that the drinking situation is due to “the American mentality and to Puritanism. Drinking gives us an excuse to show desires that we wouldn’t show when we are sober. Americans are Puritan during the week, but on weekends, subliminal desires are expressed.”

Kudva said she was not shocked when she arrived at Davidson, because “I came prepared. I knew I was making a transition into a new culture and I was prepared to see something that I’ve never seen before.” Masse said, “It is difficult to be an international student. We are here more to have experiences and not to work like an American student. Sometimes there is a misunderstanding because you want to speak with others but they are totally engrossed in their work.” Rousset, who disagrees that it is difficult being here, said, “People are very reliable. I make an effort to adapt, too, and people try to help me.”

Asked about the positive and negative aspects of Davidson, Masse said, as for the bad, “Coming from a European point of view, it seems like a brain factory here — like a machine. I hope that in the end, students can appreciate some values of life.” He added that “people feel guilty if they do not study on Sunday, and sometimes this can get exaggerated.” However, Masse points out that Davidson’s sports, club activities, and College Union are particularly strong here.

When asked to compare Davidson with the University of Montpellier, Rousset said, “Davidson has a very good working and social life. Everyone’s around (whereas in France many students go home for the weekend) and there is always something to do. Foreigners can be lost in Montpellier during the first month but not in Davidson.”

Kudva compared Davidson to the school system in India, saying, “The educational system is better here than in India. Schools here should get all the encouragement to advance their technology.” She added, “I love the parties. You can release all the energy that young people have. You can forget everything and give yourself a break. People have so much freedom here; it’s not a restrictive society at all.” However, she warns, “too much of anything (such as drinking or smoking) can be bad.”

Martinez dislikes the Davidson parties. “The main purpose is to get drunk. For me, it’s not important to have alcohol at parties.” She said that parties provide “the only thing to do on campus during the weekends” and that most people drink because it is “taboo.” Other international students are Zhenghuan Zhou of China, Diane Zengel and Thomas Schauer of Germany, and Sudeep Sen of India.