Sports
By ANDY BARRON

Anyone who thought the Davidson men’s basketball team would have a slow game after Saturday night’s highly emotional blowout of Tennessee-Chattanooga would have had a legitimate concern. Unfortunately for Western Carolina, Davidson played with a vengeance rather than a letdown and dominated the Catamounts to the tune of 92-71 Monday night.

The win over Western Carolina moves Davidson to a 10-4 record on the season, equaling last year’s number of wins, and a perfect 3-0 in the Southern Conference. Davidson leads the early race for the conference crown and is the only undefeated team in the conference.

The keys to the game for Davidson were defense and muscle. Davidson, using both zones and an aggressive man-to-man defense, took Western Carolina out of their offense midway through the first half and never let them back in the game. Physically speaking, in addition to sending two Western players to the sidelines with minor injuries, Davidson pinned a 38-32 advantage on the boards, a margin made much closer than it really was by a surge in Western rebounding late in the game when Davidson's starters were on the bench watching their teammates get a chance to play.

Senior Gerry Born played another outstanding game. In addition to leading Davidson’s efforts under the boards with 10 rebounds and scoring 14 points, Born sparked a nine-point run by the Wildcats in the first half with a three-point play and a layup. This run allowed Davidson to break away from Western and gain a 27-14 advantage with 9:13 remaining in the half. Davidson controlled the game with ease from that point on.

The first half ended on a rather spectacular note when junior Ace Tanner was fouled in the process of dunking. The basket counted and Tanner stepped to the line for two shots due to the official calling an intentional foul. Tanner connected on one of the shots.

Women beat Meredith
By MIKE ADAMS

After building a 33-20 halftime lead, the Davidson women’s basketball team fought off a second-half comeback to win 59-46 at Meredith College. The Lady Cats used a strong defense in the first half in building their 13-point lead. They mainly used a 3-2 zone, but they took Meredith’s women out of their offense with a tough man-to-man defense toward the end of the half. The man-to-man created several turnovers and contributed to the double-digit lead the Cats held at halftime.

Meredith attacked with some new offensive looks in the second half and quickly closed the 13-point gap. The teams stayed fairly close for the first 15 minutes of the second half, until Davidson pulled away for good in the last five minutes. Junior forward Heather McKee, who grabbed ten rebounds while scoring ten points, said, “Good shot selection and good defensive rebounds in the last minutes caused us to pull away.”

The Lady Cats were led by junior Jen Artman, who scored 23 points mainly from outside. Freshman Lavetta Dawkins had 14 points and ten rebounds for Davidson.

Lady Cats
By PAM HARMANN

The Davidson women’s basketball team firmly defeated Methodist College Wednesday night 68-57. This means the Lady Cats now have a winning record of 5-3. As far as Wednesday goes, during the first half Davidson shot a cold 16 percent from the floor. Though the shot selection was good, the inside shots were weak and off balance due to the opposing center. Davidson came out strong the second half when down by three points, took the same shots and made a much improved 52 percent.

Junior co-captain Heather McKee led the scoring with 18 points, followed by freshman Lavetta Dawkins with 16 points, and juniors Jen Artman and PamTwo shots and Davidson took a 47-29 lead and a great deal of momentum into the locker room. The second half saw the Wildcats expand their lead to as much as 29 points with everyone getting a chance to play. Davidson cruised to an easy win due to another fine team effort. Senior Pepper Bego played aggressively all over the court, taking full advantage of the opportunity to start due to an ankle injury to junior Chris Heineman. Sophomores Jeff Himes and Todd Scott also gave inspired efforts, scoring nine and eight points each. Tanner provided solid excitement every minute he played, piling up 15 points, including four dunks, and a lot of turnovers at both ends of the court. Despite all the fine play from so many members of the team, Davidson has the tremendous start in the conference race that they have due to strong rebounding from Born and the tremendous leadership of sophomore point guard Derek Rucker. Rucker played a nearly flawless game against Western, scoring a team-high 20 points, handing out seven assists, and making three steals in what was actually a short game for him (29 minutes). When Rucker plays well, the rest of the team usually follows. Even when Rucker has a bad night, his competitiveness and composure allow him to make his teammates play better. As the conference race moves onward, Rucker will need to continue to play well for Davidson to maintain the torrid pace they are on. Conference titles are won on the road and the road calls for Davidson. The Wildcats will face a major test Saturday at Appalachian State, a rivalry that always produces close games. If Davidson beats the Mountaineers by a margin matching that of either the Tennessee-Chattanooga or Western Carolina games, it will be difficult to keep optimism of a Southern Conference title from running amok.

Davidson played a strong 3-2 defense, caused 22 turnovers, blocked eight shots, and did extremely well on the defensive boards. Rebounding was led by Harmann with 12, Artman with ten, McKee with nine, and Dawkins with eight. Coach Patty Daley feels that “we are learning how to keep our composure and keep to our game plan — even under pressure. This is the experience we will need to be successful in close games.” This is exactly what the Lady Cats did against Methodist. Although down by three points at halftime, they played an excellent second half and never gave up. They flustered the Methodist women enough to cause many turnovers and went on to a significant win. Even though the women’s team is having such an excellent season, there are a few points that need improvement. Daley feels the man-to-man offense is still a little rusty. Each player needs to be confident with the ball and able to take it to the basket. Hopefully, as the season progresses, the players will feel more confident with the offense. Daley’s outlook for the rest of the season “is very positive. The growth so far has been tremendous. We have a highly versatile team. I look for us to continue our growth and improvement which will hopefully produce the first winning season and due recognition in years.”

Davidsonian Top 20 Basketball Poll
Compiled by the Sports Editor
1. Michigan
2. North Carolina
3. Duke
4. Georgia Tech
5. Memphis State
6. Kansas
7. Oklahoma
8. Syracuse
9. St. John’s
10. Kentucky
11. Georgetown
12. Ala.-Birmingham
13. Nevada-Las Vegas
14. Louisville
15. Texas-El Paso
16. Virginia Tech
17. Louisiana State
18. Notre Dame
19. Purdue
20. Pittsburgh

Robert Nesbit