Friday, April 18, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Woodrow Wilson Fellows help resettle Bikini Atoll

By MICHAEL D. SCHILL
Malcolm D. and Goldie W. Rivkin, this year’s Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellows, spoke this week in the Union on a
variety of social and environmental issues. The Rivkins were on campus Monday through Thursday to speak about experiences they have
had due to their company, Rivkin Associates. What could be called their keynote address was given Wednesday evening at 7:00
on the “Resettlement of Bikini Atoll.” Rivkin Associates, which among other things is involved in land use studies, was hired
by the government to work with the people of Bikini Atoll on resettlement problems.

The people of Bikini were evacuated from their atoll in 1946 so that the U.S. could test its hydrogen bomb
there. Since then, their population has increased by nearly 900 percent, they are experiencing overpopulation, and many of them want
to return to the still-irradiated Bikini. The Rivkins are trying to help the Bikinians find places where they can and
want to live independently.

To those who missed it, this lecture was another interesting chapter in the still-occurring aftereffects of the Second World War.

Other topics the Fellows addressed during the week at various open luncheons included such social and ethical problems as environment
versus land development, and urban problems worldwide. The Rivkins were also available for informal conversations every morning at 10 a.m.
in the Union's Conversation Pit.

The annual Davidson visit of Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellows is sponsored by the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation established in
1945. The National Foundation, located in Princeton, N.J., is funded by grants from corporations and foundations.

According to the National Foundation, the purpose in establishing the Visiting Fellows Program is to bring non-academic “successful representatives of
the various professions” to college campuses, in order to “help students relate their educations to the world outside the college.”

When the Visiting Fellows Program was established in 1973, funded by the Lilly Endowment, several colleges were chosen by the
National Foundation, Davidson included, to whom they would send Fellows for three years at no cost. The original coordinator at
Davidson was Dr. Randall Kincaid of the Economics Department, and after several years he was succeeded by Dr. Frank W.
Bliss, Chairman of the English Department, who has coordinated the program ever since.

The goal in having the Visiting Fellows stay a week, according to Bliss, is to have the Fellows available for
“different formats” of lectures and discussions.

Fellows who have visited Davidson in the past have included former Senator Dick Clark, Ambassador to Kenya William Attwood, and
William Dyal, Jr., President of AFS International.

“This is so they don’t come for one lecture and then leave,” explained Bliss. The format seems to be working
well. Of the programs that bring visitors to Davidson, Dr. Bliss said that “the people who run the college regard
the Visiting Fellows Program as successful.”

---

Thanks for Helping with Spring Frolics
From the Union Board

Tony Abbott
Chris Allen
Frank Albinder
Sean Austin
Kevin Bahr
Andy Ball
Cole Barton
Will Beckwith
Jane Biggerstaff
Dr. Jack Bopp
Irwin Brawley
Andy Bright
Rob Braughton
The Campus Police
Leigh Clasby
Kim Clayton
Jean Cooper
Tom Crystal
Leslie Davidson
Janet Dees
Edwin Douglas
Thomas Evans
Edwin Evans
The Grounds Crew
Vic Gatto
Steve Godwin
Mary Jane Goode
Pam Harmann
Rand Hartzell
Drew Henderson
Alice Hull
Paula Miller
Joe Moss
Kit Morris
Kim Mullis
Leigh Neale
Sandy Jablonski
Don James
Martha Johnson
Melinda Johnston
Chris Jones
Kara Kooken
Paul Kosmos
Tom Kazee
Brooke Knight
Rick Love
Will Mathis
Joe B. Martin
Suzanne Mauze
Taylor Mayo
Monicah McGee
John McNichols
Sara Merritt
Thomas Nicholson
Kim Nikles
Catherine Norton
Dave Ordoubadian
Carl Pritchard
Mack Puckett
Blanche Quinn
Jennifer Rebman
Dan Rikard
Buddy Robbins
Flora Robinson
Harriet Root
Mark Sandy
Mike Schill
Tracey Seckinger
Charlie Slagle
Dr. Michael Smith
Mamen Triguero
Lee Tolintino
Rob Vaughn
Betty Wally
Missy White
Steven White
Anne Winn
Chip Wittman
Mark Williams
Ken Wood
Ann Megan Young
Brett Zion
and Bobby Houck’s date, Lea from Salem!!!
College Relations
