Opinions | The Davidsonian
Friday, May 9, 1986

Give Davidson the publications it deserves
Peggy Pierotti

There’s a lot of wisdom in the old saying “you get what you pay for.” At Davidson, perhaps, what we
get is what we pay for, but not what we deserve. Lately, the focus has been on women’s athletics. They
are underfunded, undersupported, and basically not cared about by the administration — and it shows. But women’s athletics is not
the only area where the college’s lack of financial and moral support has caused the students to suffer. I know
specifically about this problem as it relates to student publications.

I am currently the editor of Quips and Cranks, and I served as photo editor of The Davidsonian for two
years before being elected as yearbook editor. I have spent countless hours on both publications, and I believe that both
could and should be first-rate student publications — but they are not. The problem does not stem from the nature
of the publications, nor is it a result of lack of dedication on the part of students currently involved with
the publications; the problem is the direct result of the attitude towards student publications on the part of the school
itself — students, faculty, and administration.

Money would enlarge the publications to maintain a larger, more dedicated staff, and that staff would help stabilize the quality
from year to year. Both Quips and Cranks and The Davidsonian are drastically underfunded. All of the money that these
publications receive comes from three sources: student activities fund money (allocated by the Activities Tax Council), advertising, and subscription or
book sales. Advertising revenue is limited by the location of the college away from major stores. The administration does not
contribute to the publications budgets, although the administration does indeed benefit from the publications since they are used for admissions,
recruitment, and even as incentive for fundraising — major donors and the trustees receive copies of The Davidsonian and a
yearbook sits in most administrative offices. The students are expected to pay almost entirely for all student publications.

Money from the student activities fee is allocated to all student groups requesting money each spring by the Activities Tax
Council (ATC). This group, composed of students and administrators, has the unenviable task of examining all proposed budgets to determine
how much money should go to whom. Since there is not enough money to grant everyone what they ask for,
the Council makes several cuts in most of the proposed budgets. These cuts, however, can affect the ability of the
organization to perform its function for the students. Last year the yearbook — which usually gets the largest amount of
money due to the expense of publishing — requested $27,500. It was eventually granted $26,000. While that seems like an
incredible amount of money, for a yearbook of “Davidson” quality, it is not enough. Let's examine where the money goes.

The biggest expense that any publication has is its publishing cost. In order to publish a yearbook of 368 pages,
in black and white alone and with no “extras” (e.g., solid black pages, etc.), it costs between $11 and $20
per book. At Davidson, we need 1400 copies of the book, for a total of between $15,400 and $28,000 —
just for the basic book and cover. Color pages run close to $200 each — and they are purchased only
in units of eight. Unless you can get a special deal, then publishing costs for a book with perhaps 24
pages of color — and no other extras — are between $20,200 and $32,800. But remember — this is only
the publishing cost.

On top of the publishing costs are the costs of photography, office maintenance, and other supplies. Photography is the second
largest cost — especially color photography. For only black and white photos for a 368-page book, one must spend between
$4,000 and $8,000 — depending largely on the quality of photos that you want. For color photography, each color photo
costs close to six dollars — for only eight pages, one could easily spend between $300 and $500. (This figure
is based on a company that will accept slides at no additional cost. If the company requires prints, then each
print’s cost would range from ten to 30 dollars, depending on the size. Prints must always be sent in “to
size” or “camera ready,” which means that they have to be custom printed to fit the space on the page.)
Office expenses include everything from typing paper to postage, pens and pencils to batteries for the slide viewer. Putting out
your yearbook is a very expensive task, and putting out the quality yearbook that we deserve requires more than $26,000.

At Davidson, the students bear all of these expenses, and so there is always only enough money for these basics
— it is rare that the publication can experiment or add features, because there is just not the money. The
newspaper, for example, has had to limit its use of spot color because of the cost. Similarly, the yearbook has
to limit color, watch designs, and settle for simple styles and covers in order to keep from incurring any extra
expenses (which the budget cannot afford). While I realize that thought must be given as to how money is spent,
there should be enough money for the staffs to produce better, more colorful, and more creative publications. There is certainly
no money for equipment additions, either — and yet both the yearbook and the newspaper desperately need both darkroom and
office equipment. Davidson administrators need to allot money (enough money) so that the book can expand design, add color, and
purchase equipment without sacrificing length or quality.

The yearbook — and the newspaper to a lesser degree — suffer from something worse than their lack of adequate
funding, however. They lack support. Last year’s yearbook is of exceptionally poor quality because of an incredible lack of funds
as well as lack of experienced (or any) help. No one ran for editor of the 1985 book, and so
the task fell to Kathleen Micham and her friends — they did a remarkable job considering the situation, but we
should all wonder how the students and administrators ever allowed such a situation to develop. The yearbook — and the
newspaper to...a lesser degree—suffer from something worse than their lack of funding, however. They lack support. This year's yearbook is
financially more sound, but it suffers from lack of student or administrative support. The students who pledged to work on
the book have not, and the administration has not seen fit to create incentives for the students to work. Basically,
the task of creating the 1986 Quips and Cranks has fallen entirely to Billy Naso, the photo editor, and myself.
This is a ridiculous situation—Davidson students are far too talented and creative to let two people do the entire yearbook.
And yet there is no reason to help out. Working for the yearbook requires time and energy—generally lots of both.
It is also a really thankless job—especially if you have a position of any responsibility. Most people on campus do
not even know who I am—and I was elected by these same people just last spring. Certainly, no one knows
who the photo editor is, much less anyone else on the staff. As photo editor of The Davidsonian, at least
I got occasional feedback about my work. Now I get even less recognition, and my staff seems to get none.
Clearly, no one does this for a “pat on the back.”

Many positions on this campus that require time and energy and responsibility also provide a salary. The SGA Chancellor, for
example, is paid $200 per term. The Editor(s) of The Davidsonian are paid the same, although they must split the
money since there are two of them. Davidsonian advertising managers and typesetters are also paid for their work. Not only
do I agree that these people should be paid, but I think that they are paid far too little. When,
however, I requested money for salaries for typists and editors of the yearbook, I was told no by the ATC.
(And the money was cut from our proposed budget.) The yearbook, I was informed last spring, did not traditionally have
these paid positions, and the precedent should not be set: the money was not available. I do not believe that
this is reasonable. Students should not be expected to work for free, and I should not be expected to do
the book without adequate help. If the ATC cannot supply adequate funding, then the money should come from the administration.
After all, these are the types of dilemmas that lead editors to produce really poor books.

No one has run for the position of editor of next year's yearbook, and presently there is no one at
Davidson qualified to be editor. If someone does decide to do the book, they will face an even worse situation
than I faced. Currently, the yearbook has no darkroom equipment—all of the equipment that we are now using belongs to
the Georgia Tech Photo Club, and it is only on loan to me for the year. There will be no
qualified darkroom staff to use the equipment next year either, as Billy Naso is also a senior. There will be
no qualified office staff as well, since what help I have received has been mostly from seniors. The budget has
been fixed by the Council last week at $26,000, but no publishing bid has been accepted (or even obtained), so
there will be little chance of a good contract. The possibility of a book of any quality—much less the quality
that Davidson demands—is very, very slim.

Both Quips and Cranks and The Davidsonian are drastically underfunded. I have tried to discuss this situation with several people.
The ATC last year would not allocate money for darkroom equipment, and they have not done so this year—much less
money for salaries—although I pointed out the need for both. The Business Office has been patient, yet last year they
supported the ATC's decisions. I spoke with Mickey McDonald of the SGA briefly when I realized that somehow or another
the SGA had failed to include Quips and Cranks's editor among the offices to be filled in this spring’s election.
He promised to get back in touch with me, but he never did. The issue that I wanted to discuss
with him was the SGA Media Advisory Board—a committee that advises the SGA on student publications and yet is composed
of three people that are not currently involved with any campus publication. (The committee is composed of Jane Campbell—former co-editor
of the yearbook whose lack of effort or concern caused Kathleen Micham to replace her as photo editor last winter
with Brad Brechlesbaur, Ian Dunn—former sports section editor of the yearbook, and Elizabeth Boone who ran against me for editorship
and has not been back since to help despite our offering her any position she wanted.) The composition of the
media board reflects a real insensitivity on the part of the SGA to student publications. These three people have never
worked for the newspaper, have apparently bitter feelings about the yearbook and (to the best of my knowledge) have no
connection with either Hobart Park or The Wildcat Handbook, and yet they presume to advise the SGA about student publications.
The SGA should be extremely supportive of student publications and should realize the importance of these publications to the school
and the students. Their failure to realize this and to be supportive only reaffirms the significance of the attitude problem
of the school towards the publications.

The possibility of a book of any quality—much less than the quality Davidson demands—is very, very slim. My last resort
was Dr. Kuykendall. I went to see Dr. Kuykendall last month to discuss the current problems with the yearbook as
well as the future of student publications at Davidson. Dr. Kuykendall did listen patiently and seemed to agree with me,
but his responses to my problems I found completely unsatisfactory. Money—that is, salaries—he considered an inappropriate incentive, and he felt
that the quality of the publications at Davidson would always vary from year to year depending on the students involved.
If there was no interest, if no one ran for editor, then the publication might not be needed—when there was
interest again, then the students would revive the publication.

Continued on page 15
