Wednesday, March 26, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN - Liner Notes

Wynton Marsalis
Black Codes (From The Underground)
Columbia, FC 40009
By JEFFERY M. BROWN

Black Codes (From the Underground) represents a high point in the career of trumpeter Wynton Marsalis. Previous recordings displayed his
remarkable musicianship, but his compositional efforts did not rise to the level of his stunning virtuosity. With Black Codes, the
young darling of jazz has conjured a formula which combines excellent compositions and superb musicianship. The result is bewitching.

The liner notes inform us that Black Codes represents a rebellion against ignorance, whether self-imposed or as the result of
racial stereotypes (hence the album’s title). The seven selections hardly qualify as rebellious, however. Instead, Marsalis has looked to the
past for inspiration, specifically, the 1960s. It was during the 60s that the unique “Blue Note Sound” emerged (on the
Blue Note jazz label). Herein, artists such as Freddie Hubbard, Bobby Hutcherson, and Wayne Shorter made their most profound musical
statements. It is here that the heart of Black Codes lies, although this superb album hardly rehashes tried and worn
musical formulas.

“Black Codes,” the title selection, starts things off with a driving, rhythmic theme that underlies the entire song. The musicians,
which include the dynamic, often uncanny Branford Marsalis (saxophones), Jeff (Tain) Watts (drums), Charnett Moffett (bass), and Kenny Kirkland (piano),
maneuver brilliantly between the hard-driving opening theme and a subtle, compulsive, swing tempo.

“For Wee Folks” begins as a ballad but progresses into a haunting 6/8 feel which recalls Wayne Shorter’s “Footprints”. Wynton
Marsalis’ increasing ability to weave different compositional themes, all the while remaining concise, proves to be the album’s most engaging
asset. Earlier efforts too often revealed his inability to exercise that essential compositional skill, economy.

The side ends with “Delfeayo’s Dilemma,” arguably the best song on the album. Characterized by sharp, angular lines, “Delfeayo” serves
as an excellent example of Marsalis’ growing individuality as a songwriter. Especially noteworthy is the brilliant solo of Branford Marsalis,
possibly his best work on the album.

“Phryzzinian Man” leads off side two. A quick, energetic work, “Phryzzinian Man” rivals “Delfeayo” in its drive and engaging chord
structure. “Aural Oasis,” an original Marsalis ballad, wavers in uncertainty, searches for direction, but never rises to the level of
excellence established by the rest of the album. “Chambers of Tain,” the most experimental selection on the album, finds the
Marsalis brothers doing what seems to come so naturally to them, blowing like hell. The album ends appropriately with a
piece entitled “Blues,” a fitting reminder that jazz began with this basic yet often overlooked form.

Final accolades go to Branford Marsalis, a player who, in my view, displays superior improvisational skills to his much-heralded brother.
His smooth, angular lines recall a young Wayne Shorter. But whereas the young Shorter was rough and jagged, Branford is
clean, graceful, elegant. His mastery is often uncanny. The other musicians provide more than ample support for the Marsalis brothers,
especially pianist Kenny Kirkland, who rarely fails to enthrall and delight.

Wynton Marsalis finally seems to have found his niche in the jazz world. Although his feet lie firmly in the
past, his musical sensibilities reveal a sense of urgency that bodes brightly for the future. The “Young Lion” roars loudly
indeed with Black Codes, his finest effort to date as a band leader, and one of the finest jazz releases
in many months.

Trissy Lomax operates business from historic spot
By NELLE MCCORKLE

Cherry vanilla frozen yogurt in Davidson? The sign on the old wooden door may seem startling, but health food (or
‘gourmet boutique” items, as owner Trissy Lomax prefers) is available at Natural Resources on Main Street. Located opposite the town
green, the business expanded this month into a restaurant by adding four tables for lunch customers, while retaining its coffee,
packaged food products, and baskets.

“I’ve never wanted it to be a health food store,” Lomax said. “I would go in health food stores where
they began in California and see the most sterile...places.” Determined that her approach to nutrition be different, Lomax said, “There
are very few purists and vegetarians in the world. I believe it’s all put here for us and all good.”

“The bug was put in my ear by lots of friends,” Lomax said of her decision to open Natural Resources
in 1980. “I had always been interested in good nutrition, especially as a way to good health. For my own
two children, when they were growing up, I baked bread.”

Natural Resources originally stocked cheese. “Everybody said, ‘Why don’t you make sandwiches?’” Lomax said. “Then we had to take them
out to eat them.” Lomax kept a picnic basket in the store before the recent seating addition; she lent this
basket to customers wishing to take lunches across to the town green. “I lent it to a couple one time
going to the mountains for the weekend.” Today, Lomax proudly points out this wicker basket, now on the shop’s floor
stuffed with nutrition information folders.

One-third to one-fifth of Natural Resources’ business occurs during December, Lomax said. “Students are our steadiest customers.” Sandwich sales comprise
the major part of business. Baked goods, prepared at Natural Resources by baker Jean Dutterer, coffee by the cup, and
snack mixes of nuts and raisins, are the other top-selling items. The store also sells woven baskets and North Carolina
pottery. “I know all the potters,” Lomax said.

Natural Resources’ building, the store's location since its opening, served within recent memory as Wisteria Beauty Salon, The Oasis, and
Nationwide Insurance’s Davidson office. Prior to these occupants, the building contained the Davidson police station with an upstairs morgue, now
remade into an apartment. Originally, a drugstore occupied the building: Davidson resident Newtie Deal Johnston remembers drinking her first Coca-Cola
at age 16 there, purchased from a traveling salesman in 1908.

“I’ve tried to make it [the building’s interior appearance] a bit of the new but some of the old nostalgia,”
Lomax said. Vivid vegetable prints and artist's proofs by Davidsonian Laura Grosch hang over an antique mahogany church pew Lomax
bought from St. John Neumann Catholic Church in Charlotte. She transported the pew in her Toyota Landcruiser accompanied by a
helper and a live parakeet. “I fell in love with the bird, and bought her before I picked up the
pew. I named her Patty Pew,” Lomax said.

Born in Baltimore, Lomax grew up in New Jersey. She came to North Carolina to attend St. Mary's Junior College
in Raleigh, where she played on an all-state field hockey team. She graduated from the University of North Carolina and
then moved to Lake Norman from Charlotte in 1977 with her husband Henry and two children. The Lomaxes’ son, Henry
Jr., graduated from Davidson in 1978. In off-hours, Lomax paints in watercolor; she swims, sings with the Charlotte Oratorio Singers,
and practices ballet at her home.

“I don’t know if I’m a walking advertisement,” Lomax said, “but I never get sick. I’m not a vegetarian or
a health food addict. I eat anything and everything. I try to eat fewer preservatives. I still eat junk food.
I love hamburgers and Bojangles chicken.”

---

I'M AN AIR FORCE PILOT

There was a time way back when women in the Air Force did the same things women did everywhere: clerical
and administrative positions. Those positions are still around, but for women in the Air Force, the opportunities are endless. You'll
find women in almost every skill area and with the prestige and responsibility of leaders.

Many of these women began their relationship with the Air Force in college, as cadets in Air Force ROTC. We
received $100 per month for expenses. And those of us on scholarship had our tuition, books, and lab and incidental
fees paid by the Air Force.

If you're a woman interested in or attending college, Air Force ROTC can make a big difference in your life!
And when you graduate, you may become an Air Force officer. The sky's the limit.

AIR FORCE ROTC: Gateway to a great way of life.
