Cats jump to early conference lead, p. 6

The Davidsonian
Volume LXXV, Number 12
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, January 17, 1986

Halsted advocates ‘sane nuclear policy’
By JOHN ENGEL

“Oh no, another political activist beating his drum in the 900 Room” may have been the reaction of many this past week to advertising for “How to Kick the Nuclear Habit,” a speech presented by Washington consultant/lobbyist Tom Halsted on the nuclear arms race.

The Union Speakers Committee sponsored a joint forum Tuesday afternoon with both Halsted and Norris Frederick, executive director for North Carolina SANE, the Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy. They also scheduled a speech by Halsted on the subject of nuclear arms addiction.

In the afternoon forum, Halsted and Frederick said the new SDI program is the technological lure which appeals to the American public but is neither a practical nor feasible solution to the nuclear arms build-up. They made an analogy to contraception, in which a “leaky shield” is no shield at all.

Halsted and Norris fielded questions from faculty, students, and townspeople for ninety minutes mainly on the issue of a “Star Wars” defense system. Other questions focused on the momentum of the nuclear freeze movement, the impact of money from industry on the politics of nuclear arms, the extent to which we could verify a limitations treaty, and the attitude of the Reagan administration toward nuclear weapons, negotiations, and the Soviets.

In another speech that evening in the 900 Room, Halsted outlined seven steps the U.S. ought to take toward reducing the threat of nuclear war. Halsted termed this year’s summit negotiations as “one of last year’s major nonevents” as a result of “arms control being almost dead in the water for the last seven years.” Despite the lack of efforts on the administration’s part and the apparent decline of the freeze movement, Halsted claimed that the: “polls show overwhelming public revulsion for nuclear weapons. Being such great sports fans, we [Americans] have a tough time accepting that there’s no number one in nuclear weapons.” Thus, a Star Wars program is immensely appealing to a public always “in search of yet another magic bullet.” He conceded that “we need to keep some level of research going,” but a program of the size the administration is talking about “promises to accelerate the arms race almost beyond control.”

Halsted said, “If, to quote Churchill, ‘the stone age may return on the gleaming wings of science,’ and we are truly like ‘two men up to their waists in gasoline, each looking for more matches to make them feel more secure,’ then we may as well pack up and go home now, for the specter of nuclear arms will not elude us with or without limitations and test bans.”

According to Halsted, the attitudes of both Soviet and American leadership must undergo a significant change in direction if we are to breathe easier. We must reevaluate our present course.

Tom Halsted spoke in the 900 Room Tuesday.

Incoming Union President Kellam outlines plans
By ANDREA DIEDRICH

Sign-ups for Union Committee Chairmen begin on Monday, Jan. 20 in the Union lobby. The sign-ups and the interviews for the chairmen will take place on Wednesday, Jan. 22 and will be conducted in part by the new Union officers: junior Lucinda Kellam, president; junior Sheryl Aikman, co-curricular vice-president; and junior Bobby Houck, social vice-president.The new officers will serve during the spring term of the 1985-’86 school year and the fall and winter terms of the 1986-’87 school year. Because the drinking age will be raised to 21 in North Carolina on Sept. 1, 1986, “the new Union officers will have to do some creative thinking in order to develop a program that will allow the Union to participate in the social life of the campus,” Union Director William Brown said.

Kellam said one of her main goals is to “program well enough so that people will come to the Union without being able to drink.” Houck added: “The Union will be a social place; it just won't be a place to drink. Hopefully, we will be able to concentrate on other programs such as speakers and films.”

Brown anticipates significant growth in video programming because the Union has recently acquired new equipment, including an editor, that will enable greater creativity in that area. He said there have been several suggestions such as a campus soap opera, Sunday night home movies, and an Around Davidson news program that the new equipment will make possible.

“I anticipate that the 900 Room will not open when programming isn’t going on after the drinking age changes,” Brown said. “It will probably be open three or four nights a week and will not function just as a gathering place.”

Kellam said, “We plan to concentrate on having a few good performances rather than having frequent programming.” Brown also foresees the development of the Davidson Outdoors Program.

The Strategic Planning Committee will also be important in determining the future of the Union this year, Brown said. The committee will address the question of the location of the Union and the possibility of changing Johnston Gym into a new Union building.

Brown said a primary challenge the new officers (particularly Kellam) have to face is: “not to be intimidated by current Union President Rob Vaughn's vision, but rather to build on it. I see no problem in her meeting that challenge. The last two boards have reached out to the total campus and created more interest in the Union. We will grow and build on what these people have done.”

Because of Kellam’s experience with Union activities, “She is in a position to capitalize on that better than anyone I can imagine,” Brown said. Kellam said one of her goals is to involve students in the process of organizing events. She also plans to re-examine programs; for example, because of the low attendance at the Midwinter’s dances in the Commons, this year there will be a party in the 900 Room Saturday afternoon from 1 - 4 p.m. Spring Frolics will include a Speidel, Goodrich, and Lille concert in the stadium followed by a “drive-in” movie that night in the stadium. Also, Thursday night discos have been dropped because of poor attendance.

Brown said next year it will be especially important to coordinate activities with Patterson Court so the Union and the Court will not compete. He hopes open conversations with the social chairmen on the court will be possible partly to plan scheduling and partly to determine who will sponsor which events.

Because the fourth woman Union president (Mary Jo Clark was the first in 1978-1979), Brown feels Lucinda has several advantages. He has found that women have been very enthusiastic.

(continued on page 2)