Friday, April 25, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bacher Seat
Little known sport thrills tournament players
By MIKE ADAMS

Spring is the time of year for tournaments. The NCAA basketball championships have just been concluded and the NBA playoffs are just getting started. There are championship tournaments going on in college baseball, tennis, track, and golf. And then there’s Beer Pong.

Beer pong? Yep, that’s right. We are now in the middle of the first annual Fiji Beer Pong Tournament. For the uninitiated, Beer Pong is a variation of ping pong played with — you guessed it — beer. The object of the game is to hit your opponent’s cup, which is placed at a designated spot on the table, five times before he hits yours five times. Each hit forces your foe to drink one-fifth of his beer. After five drinks, the cup is empty, the game is over, and you have won.

Beer Pong started out many years ago as a drinking game. This is no longer the case. Although it is still played with beer — only in honor of tradition, mind you — it is no longer a game; it is now a sport. The difference is that you play a game to have fun, but you play a sport to win.

Like every young sport, Beer Pong has its problems. Basketball and football weren't instant successes; they had their periods of hardship when the media and the public perceived them as endeavors lacking in dignity and value. Beer Pong faces the same dilemma. No one really cares much about Beer Pong except the people who play it and a few hard-core fans. For instance, Monday night at the tournament site Beer Pong was forced to compete with several other much more trivial pursuits. There were people dancing, playing hacky-sack (a game: no one ever wins hacky-sack), and watching television while this intensely competitive tournament was going on. There was a running battle between the dancers and the Pongers over the stereo volume. The dancers wanted it loud, real loud, and the Pongers wished to at least be able to hear the ball hit the table. The dancers would turn it up and the Pongers would turn it down in a seesaw battle that raged most of the night. See how this sport must suffer in its youth?

Tournament action at the Fiji house Monday night was fast and furious despite the distractions. The preliminary rounds were played the previous week; Monday was reserved for the quarter- and semifinals. All first-round matches were decided on one game, the quarterfinals were best of three, the semis best of five, and the finals will be best of seven.

In singles action, the best match of the evening was the semifinal match between senior Boyd Blackburn and junior Ace Howe. After dropping the first game, Howe opened a 2-1 lead in the best of five series. Blackburn fought his way back into a tie behind an overpowering forehand, forcing a fifth and deciding game. Both men played ferocious pong and the score stood tied at 4-4 until Blackburn hit a remarkable diving return that just clipped the top of Howe's cup to win the match. The other singles match was not nearly as exciting as freshman Will Willoughby trounced senior Dave Brown, 3-0.

In doubles, all of the winning teams walked through the quarterfinals with easy 2-0 victories. The first doubles semifinal was another walk-over, with the team of freshmen Hugh Lee and Matt Polly easily defeating Willoughby and freshman Rick Case, 3-0. In the second semifinal, the team of Howe and freshman Dave Petranick faced Brown and junior Mike Adams. (Yeah, that’s me. How did you think I knew so much about this stuff?) After dropping the first game 5-3, Brown and Adams used deadly service returns to sweep the next three games and win the match 4-1.

Next Monday's finals will feature Blackburn and Willoughby in singles and Lee and Polly against Brown and Adams in doubles. Beer Pong may be a young sport, garnering little media attention, but it certainly has all the spills (when your cup gets knocked over), chills (when your cup gets knocked over in your lap), and thrills (when you knock the other guy's cup over) of any of the major media darlings.

Men’s tennis team achieves twenty-win season
By SUSAN WILKINS

“It’s just not my day,” muttered sophomore Bill Young during Monday's tennis match against Johnson C. Smith University. If winning at number three singles against a strong player (who combined body strength with equally strong vocal cords) does not make Young’s day, what does?

In his first set against the J.C.S.U. player, Young hit several incredible shots, but was hampered by missing fairly simple ones. Because of this, he was down 3-4, with his opponent serving. Although his opponent powered a few serves by him, Young battled back to win the first set 7-5, eliciting many unintelligible comments from the other player. In the second set, Young played smart tennis, driving his opponent from side to side, until he could open the court up to put the ball away. After Young won the second set 6-3, the J.C.S.U. player smashed his racquet to pieces in frustration.

For most of the J.C.S.U. players, the day was frustrating. Coach Jeff Frank had expected this match to be a tough one; he said that Johnson C. Smith had importedSeveral good players had moved their former number one player to number five. Davidson was ready for J.C.S.U., though, and played well, winning the match 6-3. At the number four position, senior captain Craig Hall also drove his opponent to screams of anger as he won quickly 6-2, 6-2. Sophomore Carlos Ortega, substituting for freshman Sebastian Koch at number six, was another easy winner. He won 6-3, 6-3, building up 5-2 leads in both sets before letting his opponent win a game and then putting the set away.

Junior Michael Meyer played a heartstopper of a match at number five singles. In the first set, he went up 3-2 by hustling after every point. He then dropped a game to his opponent, and the score was tied. Both players held serve for the next few games before Meyer managed to overpower the J.C.S.U. player and win the set 6-4. Meyer dropped the second set 6-2, but after getting some advice from Frank, he broke his opponent's serve in the first game of the third set to take an early lead 1-0. He then held serve and broke the other player's serve again to go up 3-0. At this point, Meyer looked to be a sure winner, but the J.C.S.U. player was not dead and played power tennis to win the next two games. Meyer held on to his lead and led 5-4 and was serving for the match. He played well, but his opponent refused to quit and won to tie the match. Meyer then picked up the pace to win the next two games quickly, winning the set 7-5.

At numbers one and two singles, Davidson had a rough afternoon. Junior Hayes Dallas (number two) lost his first set to a Herculean opponent, 1-6. Although in the second set Dallas played extremely well, hitting several nice overheads, he could come no closer than 4-5 and he lost the set 4-6. Sophomore Jim Thompson played a match full of acrimony and bad calls. In the first set, Thompson lost his first game but came back to win the next two, to open up a 2-1 lead. The rest of the set was up and down, and Thompson dropped a 4-3 lead to go down 4-5. He battled back to win the next two games and had a chance to win the set. But his opponent won the next game to force the set into a tiebreaker. Thompson and his opponent stayed even throughout the tiebreaker, one going up and then the other. It was tied at five all when enmity began to appear. On two successive questionable calls, Thompson's opponent won the tiebreaker 7-6, giving himself the first set 7-6. Understandably upset, Thompson asked for a line judge (a person to decide questionable calls) in the second set. He did not seem to need the judge as he won the set 6-3. Continuing to play well, Thompson won the first game of the third set. After this game, lots of calls on both sides were questioned and the line coach tried to settle the problems. Thompson went down 4-5 on another questionable call that the line judge ruled against Thompson. Thompson lost the set 4-6.

Davidson was now leading the match 4-2, but needed at least one doubles win to win the match. After rain interrupted the first sets of doubles, the match was moved indoors. Junior Trip Caldwell teamed with Thompson at number two doubles and won the match for the Cats. They won in two quick sets 6-3, 6-4, looking strong and quick at the net. At number three doubles, Hall and Meyer took three sets to beat their opponents 6-3, 3-6, 7-6. Meyer played unbelievable doubles, hustling all over the court and serving well. Hall also played well, although his shoulder seemed to still be bothering him. Dallas and Young played well, combining sweet net play and overhead after overhead, but their opponents had serves that could not be seen, and so Davidson's number one doubles team lost 2-6, 3-6.

Before the J.C.S.U. match (where Davidson picked up its twentieth win), the Cats traveled to Furman for a Southern Conference match. Although losing 8-1, Frank was not disappointed in the Wildcats’ singles play. Koch was the only winner for the Cats. He won in three sets. After losing a close first set 5-7, Koch came back with powerful ground strokes and serves to defeat his opponent 6-1, 6-4 in the next two sets. Davidson did not do so well in doubles; they lost all three matches. At number one the score was 1-6, 2-6; at number two, 1-6, 0-6; at number three, 1-6, 1-6.

The Southern Conference tournament starts this weekend, and Frank hopes the Cats will do well. They have a winning record in the conference (4-2) and are looking at a number three or four seed.

Summer °L.S.E. NY, NY, Fall WASHINGTON or LONDON INTERNSHIPS OXFORD SUMMER Full Academic Years In:
- Oxford University
- St. Andrews, Scotland

U.S. credits will be transferred through Hampden-Sydney College, founded in Virginia by James Madison in 1776. Graduate work is an option. The Director of Studies for the Center for Quality Education Abroad (in Britain) is the Rt. Hon. The Lord Beloff, D.Litt. (Oxon), Fellow of the British Academy, Professor Emeritus of Government and Fellow of All Souls, Oxford.

INQUIRIES TO: JANET KOLLEK, J.D., Admissions Director CQEA/ WISC, Am 53, 158 W. 81 St., 40024. (212-724-0804/724-0136). (EO/AA) Spring