_ Drug issue considered, p. 11. Volume LXXVI, Number 6 The Davidsonian _ Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036 Friday, October 17, 1986

Kappa Sigma group seeks freshmen, charter

By DAVID WILLIAMS

Leaders of the Kappa Sigma interest group say the organization will need to attract at least 25-30 freshmen this year in order to gain a Patterson Court House and a national fraternity charter. Sophomore Drew Henderson, who is an elected member of the group’s senior consulting committee, said the group currently has about 35 active members and needs approximately 60 members for the college to grant it an eating house.

Up until this weekend, the Kappa Sigma interest group has had to observe the Patterson Court rule which prohibits freshmen from entering Patterson Court houses or attending rush events during the first five weeks of school. But the group has been meeting weekly and planning several rush activities for homecoming weekend, including a semi-formal party tonight at the former ATO house and a mixer tomorrow afternoon at the M & M Soda Shop.

Sophomore member Lowell Keller said the college’s granting permission to the Kappa Sigma group to use the former ATO house “is an important step, because it shows some recognition by the administration that we are a real entity rather than just a loosely-bound group of students.” The Kappa Sigma group has invited the entire freshman class to attend the semi-formal dance. Additionally, the group has invited all freshmen and active Kappa Sigma alumni to attend tomorrow’s party at the M & M. Henderson said this party will be “an opportunity for us to work as broad a spectrum as possible, to get in contact with alumni, as well as to show the freshmen who we are and meet them individually and get to know them.”

In addition to planning rush activities, the group has been making the necessary contacts with the Kappa Sigma national organization and with Davidson Kappa Sigma alumni. Henderson said that an official from the Kappa Sigma national organization had come down to visit last spring and “was very enthusiastic” about getting a chapter started here. Keller noted that Davidson Kappa Sigma alumni have been very encouraging toward the group’s efforts. “From what I understand, the Kappa Sigma chapter on campus here was very active. It was one of the best Kappa Sigma chapters in the country, and so the alumni is very strong. We’ve had a lot of contact with the alumni, and a lot of them have been really supportive and enthusiastic.” The group sent out 325 invitations to active Kappa Sigma alumni for this weekend’s homecoming activities.

The Kappa Sigma national organization requires every group applying for a Kappa Sigma charter...

Peruvian addresses cocaine

By TOM MOORE

International cooperation is the key to ending the drug trade, asserted former Peruvian drug prosecutor Gabriella Sevillano in her lecture “Cocaine: The Latin American Connection” Wednesday in the 900 Room. “It is such a big problem that Latin American governments are incapacitated,” she said. Sevillano, who was speaking as part of the Dean Rusk Program for International Studies, will be...

economies of Latin American countries, Sevillano said. “The drug smugglers have drawn their net around all Latin American countries except Chile.” Much of the problem is the centuries-old poverty of the farmers forced to take up drug cultivation, she remarked. “There are a large number of farmers involved... the cocaine trade is a very important employer” to people in the region. Sevillano’s particular area of interest, where lords.” “The people there cannot understand that what they’re doing is wrong,” she continued. “It is their life, it is their work, it is the only thing that can put bread on...the table for their families, she said. "The real danger in the situation," she said, is "just being in the middle. You have your duties in trying to establish law... make the law a reality... but you also face an enemy without a face." 

They cannot have someone teaching a course at Davidson this winter term through the Center for Special Studies on the complexities of the drug scene. She left her job as a drug prosecutor in Peru and became a lecturer in the Charlotte area after pressure from Peruvian cocaine smugglers made her fear for her life. She is teaching a course in international law this term at Belmont Abbey. 

Cocaine is becoming more entrenched in the area. When she was a drug prosecutor, the Peruvian-Ecuadorian frontier was a very poor, underfinanced, under-irrigated area with a thriving drug market. "All there is, is land, land, land, and the sea; the people there have been for centuries engaged in fishing and small (subsistence) farms. It is a very poor area," Sevillano explained. The drug trade, however, she said, is merely "an escape from poverty for many and riches for a few."

The incident that convinced Sevillano to leave the country was in October 1985, when a former neighbor of hers disappeared. Eight days later, his body was found with another in a trunk on the frontier. The car was perfectly all right, "but the bodies in the trunk were extremely cremated. There was little to let you know that they had ever existed. A bridge, keys, personal items."

News: Personalities on parade: New professors continued

Sports: Missed the playoffs? Turn to Edwin Page

Features: First AfterMASH, now before MASH

Page 8

The Davidson group completed this requirement during the past spring when it sponsored projects for Cystic Fibrosis, the Special Olympics, the Metrolina Food Bank, as well as several other organizations. The dance-a-thon for Cystic Fibrosis, which the Kappa Sigma group held jointly in April with Spencer House, netted over $1200 for the Cystic Fibrosis foundation.

Dean of Students Will Terry, who is chairman of the Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL), said the Council is "following the same procedure with Kappa Sigma that we followed with Warner Hall, Spencer, and Sigma Phi Epsilon." The CCRL must give final approval to an organization before it can obtain an eating house. Terry said, "We are saying that you need 60 people to start a new house — to give us reasonable assurance that it’s going to float. That’s the bottom line requirement, and then we look at how viable the organization is, because it costs some investment by the college to start a house up. We don’t want to spend the money if we don’t think the house is going to float."

Terry said the college accepts the responsibility of providing all the kitchen equipment and dining equipment for a new Patterson Court house. Both Dean Terry and Keller said neither the Kappa Sigma group nor the CCRL has yet addressed the issue of whether the group will be allowed to participate in self-selection next February. Terry said one "sticking point" is that some students and faculty "say we've already got enough fraternities on campus." But he said the CCRL "will still recommend to me and the president that the Kappa Sigma interest group be allowed to form a chapter."

Colonel Diehl presents awards at the ROTC Awards Ceremony

Page 5

Opinions: Dr. Park sounds off for fraternities

Page 9