so aptip acess

IMAC flickerball season fully underway

By RICK CASE

The 1986 IMAC Flickerball season is now officially underway, and already the usual number of rule misunderstandings, referee problems, and great games have been accounted for.

To all people participating in this season’s action, here are some things to keep in mind to help the season go along a bit more smoothly: the flickerball fields are designated non-drinking areas. Please do not bring any sort of alcoholic beverage up to the fields, as there has already been one unfortunate incident involving this rule. If you think that alcohol enhances your playing ability, please drink before the game.

Please go over any misunderstandings you might have concerning the rules before the game with your ref. There is an official IMAC flickerball rulebook with every equipment bag if you need to check on something. Go easy on the referees during the games, especially on things such as whistling the play dead and spotting the ball. These are judgment calls, and if you're that serious about flickerball anyway, you've got a problem. Concerning no-shows: if you are scheduled to referee a game and neglect to show up, your team loses its eligibility for tournament play. If you pull a repeat performance, your team is out of the league. History: Gonzo.

If you are scheduled to play either “I Wanna Be Someplace Else,” or “Flickin’ Pax,” you will be awarded a forfeit for that game, as both teams have dropped out of the league. Both teams, however, will honor their refereeing responsibilities.

The deadline for roster addition is 4 p.m. Oct. 10. No exceptions will be allowed.

Game action began two weekends ago with the annual exhibition match between SAE’s and KA’s number one teams “Drop and Give” and “KA Gold.” KA took a very close game by the score of 39-32, with sophomore Whit Wilkes catching three touchdown passes for KA. This event was for the freshmen to come out and see how the game is played. I’m sure the four that did show up got a lot out of it.

Other league highlights: Sept. 28 — Stob Session defeated Red Garage Roof despite a two-t.d. effort by freshman Tim Sparks, and Rusk declawed the Crabs of Warner Hall by the score of 37-0. Ruskies sophomore Sarah Whitesides and senior Caryn Coppedge were game MVPs.

Oct. 2 — Wine Us Dine Us 31, First Floorgasms 25. Blue Dogs 9, Belly Akers 0. KA Gold 72, Pike Dogs 14. Bottom Line 6, First Rich 0. Drop and Give 54, Buschmen 7. And in one of the best games of the year so far, Students Against Butt Pirates got rear-ended by the Ragin’ Trajans by the score of 17-13 despite an incredible effort by senior Fletcher Fairey.

Oct. 5 — Warner Hall’s first team won their game to remain undefeated, as junior Trina “The Bear” Morrison and junior Mary Erwin were chosen as outstanding players. Also, the Ragin’ Trajans beat the Damned Commanchees II by the score of 12-0 on two touchdowns by senior Rob Norman.

Please keep in mind the rules and suggestions stated above and try to show up for games on time and with your whole team. If your whole team can’t make it, try to play with as many people as you have. Be nice to the referees even if they are blind mutes, and above all have a good season.

ATTENTION!

Homecoming Special:

10% Off on corsages & boutonnieres ordered by OCTOBER 14.

Florals
½ mile past HAM & EGGS on the left
Norman Landing Plaza
(704) 892-9010

Hours: Mon-Fri. 9 a.m.-6 p.m.
Sat. 9 a.m.-4 p.m.
credit cards accepted

UNITED CAROLINA BANK

Main St. Davidson
892-7805
Lake Norman
mth. 95 fri. 96

Natural Shoulder

Come see the new light weight shetland, saxonies, and doeskin flannel sportcoats. A great silhouette -

Downtown Maven

Julian Hack® Son
6644711 or 6633701
Only 6 miles North

Five Good Reasons to Bank with Us

Craig Carlock
Mark Sandy
Chuck Harris
Bill Boyette

Advisory Board