The Davidsonian
Friday, October 3, 1986

New international fest comes to Union
By MUADI MUKENGE

The first International/Intercultural Festival will be held tomorrow on Chambers lawn from noon until 4 p.m. The festival will include
educational and recreational displays, entertainment, and foods from different parts of the world. The purpose of the festival is to
give international students the opportunity to share aspects of their culture with the school, said Assistant Dean of Students Paula
Moore Miller, advisor to international students. It also broadens the scope of American students, she added.

The festival is being sponsored by the International Committee of the College Union. Comprised of approximately 30 students, it is
headed by Bilal El-Amine, a senior Mideastern studies major from Beirut, Lebanon. Davidson currently has 55 international students from countries
such as Sri Lanka, West Germany, Zambia, Pakistan, China, Mexico, Greece, and Lebanon.

The entertainment groups will begin performing at noon. Among them are the Happy Wanderers, a duet made up of an
accordion player and a tuba player who play German music. The Culture Bearers, an African dance/drama group, will perform and
also stilt-walk. A steel band from Charlotte will appear and a Davidson student will do an Indian dance. “We are
lucky to have the performers,” stated El-Amine. “Most of them are professionals and they’re doing this for very little or
nothing.”

The Union patio will be fashioned as an outdoor French cafe. Booths from each country will be set up on
Chambers lawn. Two such booths will depict a forum on South Africa and one on the Indian sub-continent. Games are
planned for children. There will be a costume booth where they may dress in international attire. International dishes such as
Chinese stir fry, apple strudel, Polish sausage, Baklava, Philadelphia pepper steak, and French vanilla ice cream will be sold at
a price of $0.50 each. Refreshments will be served free.

El-Amine hopes that the festival will have a large impact on the Davidson community, most of whom have never been
exposed directly to international culture. In the past, the festival was held in the 900 Room for two hours. The
large crowd who responded influenced organizers to have it outside in the future. “We’re more ambitious about it this year,”
said El-Amine. “I’m generally confident that it will be a success.”

Miami is not all flash and trash
By STEVE MANK

I live in Miami. Saying that is roughly equivalent to the often repeated “I am an alcoholic” one hears at
an AA meeting. If for no other reason because being from Miami seems to imply some sort of chemical addiction.
But there are other similarities between Miami and an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting:
1. People from both come from all races, classes, and economic groups.
2. People from both care about their futures.
3. People from both want to help others.
4. People from both usually want the best for their families.
5. People from both are represented on TV by people not even of their respective groups.

Which cunningly brings me to the delicate issue of “Miami Vice”. Contrary to popular belief, not all people from Miami
dress like that. A lot do but not quite all. No one, in fact, dressed like that before some fashion
designer (I like to think he’s from California and says “baby” quite a bit) decided that that was how we
dressed. It was with a great deal of sadistic joy that I read that the styles of “Miami Vice” would
be changing this fall and thereby sweeping last year’s threads into a maelstrom of obsolescence.

Also, Don Johnson is not cool. Not at all — not even a little bit. He makes a dumb rock
star. He’s a bad actor. He looks greasy. He’s egotistical. He’s stupid. He worships Satan in ugly orgies of blood
and flame. Of course, all this is only Don Johnson as I perceive him.

But Miami Vice is cool. If you’ve never seen the show, it’s about these two tough street-wise cops that battle
crime in the glamorous whirlwind of money and fame that is Miami. Street-wise, as best as I can tell, means
their dialogue is sprinkled with “man” and “dude” and “honey” and various euphemisms like “jerk” for the vernacular we all
know and love. Crockett and Tubbs, as they are called, are basically nice guys despite their brazen exteriors and mean
talk. In a typical show, you might hear them say something like this:

Crockett: So, what do you think of Gomez?
Tubbs: TheArgentinian or the Cuban?
Crockett: Neither, the Panamanian.
Tubbs: He’s trash. When I see a guy like him do what he does to kids like Pedro, I just
wanna throw up.
Crockett: I just wanna waste ‘em.
Tubbs: Yeah, well that too.

Which brings me to another important issue of “Miami Vice” and Miami life — namely Hispanics. For the former, they
represent evil incarnate who stand for little more than a subversive element bent on the destruction of life as we
know it. For the latter, at least as far as the rest of the world is concerned, they represent pretty
much the same. Frequently, people walk up to me and say, “Oh, you’re from Miami; they have Cubans there.” They
say it in much the same way one would say “Oh, you’re from Miami; they have the bubonic plague there.”

Actually, Cubans are really neat, mostly because they speak another language. It’s a lot of fun to have someone from
out of town visit and not be able to communicate with anything short of sign language and shouting. Even people
that speak Spanish have trouble. Oftentimes, Spanish speakers in Miami cruelly exploit the communication gap by insulting you in their
own tongue. Once, a vicious bunch of ne’er-do-wells shouted “maricon,” the Spanish equivalent of “faggot,” at me. I, mistaking their
obscenity for a mispronunciation of American, replied (to myself) “That’s right, and damned proud of it.” The truth, when I
finally discovered it, was crippling.

There is, however, more to Miami than glamour and crime and Hispanic Americans. Like, for instance, the Seaquarium where the
original Flipper daringly rescues some bikini-clad beauty from the rising flames of a burning house every day of the year
except Christmas. There are also airboat rides (these are little flat-bottom boats driven by, if you can believe it, airplane
prop engines — wow). The way they work is you pay for the initial ride with a genuine Seminole Indian
and then pay extra for stuff like a visit to a genuine Seminole village or to watch someone wrestle a
genuine 12-foot alligator.

But the best thing about Miami is when occasionally, just occasionally, you see a Maserati tear down Biscayne Boulevard while
a Ferrari with a blue blinking light follows close behind. The guys in the first car shoot across the median
and crash into a building on the other side. The guys jump out and fire at the Ferrari with Browning
automatic rifles. The other guys return the fire with Uzis, eventually killing the guys in the Maserati. This never happened
to me, but it might.

Another way Miami is like an AA meeting is that everyone seems like they’re happy to be there but it’s
kind of a drag.

Spirit Square hosts magnificent Mike Cross
By JESSICA FISHER and DIANA MILLER

If the midterm crunch has actuated your escapist tendencies, take the opportunity to get away from Chambers to enjoy a
pleasant weekend in Charlotte. Spirit Square is celebrating its tenth anniversary with a varied array of music, food, and fun.
The highlight of the weekend will be “Spirit Square Saturday,” which will include a performance by Mike Cross. After performing
last night at Davidson, Mike Cross has become a familiar name around campus. His energetic storytelling and musical performances have
endeared him to a broad spectrum of listeners. Be sure not to miss this unbeatable opportunity to see him in
Charlotte.

The event will take place from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. and will include performances by the Green Grass Cloggers
and the Loonis McGlohon Trio. Also featured will be exhibits and demonstrations including printmaking, sidewalk chalk art, photography, life drawing
and painting, and weaving. The food will be catered by Jonathan's and will feature beef kabobs, eggrolls, finger burritos, soft
pretzels, beer, and alternatives. Admission, always a consideration, is free.

Other events in the festival include a jazz deli lunch featuring the Seventh Street Band today from 11:30 a.m. to
2:00 p.m. This luncheon will be held at the outdoor tent located on the corner of College and Seventh Street
and the cost will be $5. On Sunday, “Munch With Mozart,” which includes a brunch catered by Jonathan’s Uptown and
features a Mozart program presented by the Charlotte Symphony Chamber Orchestra, will be held from 12:30 to 2 p.m. in
the outdoor tent. The cost will be $12 at the door, $11 in advance. Spirit Square is located at 110
East Seventh Street in downtown Charlotte.

Look for the “Out and About” calendar of events in next Friday’s issue of The Davidsonian.
