2 News Shorts ~ General visits ROTC

Parking regulations enforced

Warning tickets issued to owners of cars parked around Patterson Court advise students that those cars will be towed Monday unless the cars are moved, Public Safety Chief Jackie Hughes said yesterday. The newly increased size of the parking lot adjacent to Irwin dorm led Hughes to enforce existing policy, he said. The Irwin lot extension provides a lighted gravel parking area for an additional 135 cars. The addition brings the lot’s capacity to 235 cars. Hughes noted that the Irwin lot extension increases the number of student parking spaces to 750; 650 students drive cars registered with the security department. “That number of parking spaces gives us more than enough for the cars that are registered,” Hughes said. Towed cars will be taken to the Irwin lot.

Nelle McCorkle contributed to this article.

New SGA senators

Freshman Class: Thad Stidham, President Chip Allen, Wendy Dunn, Boyd Miller, Bill Scouten, Joe Thomas.

Brigadier General Peter W. Lash, commander of the first ROTC region, chose to begin his tour of all east coast ROTC institutions, from Maine to Puerto Rico, with Davidson. Lash has had a successful career, including a tour as the Deputy Commandant of Cadets and one as an instructor at Ranger school. He was awarded the Legion of Merit award, the Meritorious Service Medal, and the Bronze Star. Senior Cadet Colonel John McNeill commented, “The General is an extremely intelligent and influential man, and left me with many words of wisdom. It was certainly an honor for me to meet a person of that caliber.”

Material contributed by Aimee Gonder.

Library changes

According to Library Director Leland Park, changes in the library for the 1986-87 school year were made for the students based on a questionnaire from spring term 1985. The questionnaire quizzed students on operating hours, hours that reference help is needed, and copy machines. Park said the library staff is working hard to make the library more conducive to the students’ needs, but its success rate depends upon the students themselves. Among the changes are the quiet areas for serious studiers in the basement and second floor. The first floor remains less than solemn (and more social). Sophomore Melissa Dilettuso considers this alteration effective:

Friday, October 3, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Independents: Ken Bogert, Becky Castleman, Ranjit Rawlley.
Pika: Sam Cutting
SPE: Chris Westlake
WH: Mary Erwin
Spencer: Colleen Bairas
Phi Delt: Rod Cate
SAE: Whitney Montgomery
PAX: Ken Jones
Emanon: Doug Robelin
BSC: Karin Douglas
KA: Mark Piehl
Fiji: Ted Davis
Rusk: Caryn Coppedge

Continued from page 1

be to bow down to popular myth rather than to follow common sense.” Sophomore David Host suggested that those who support divestment reflect “an abundance of good intention but a lack of foresight.” He added that divestment would halt practices by companies like IBM whose “equal pay for equal work” policies are helping blacks in South Africa. Sophomore Sonja Miller said that she felt guilty for the suffering going on in South Africa. “It is my hope,” she said, “that the college I chose to attend would have the guts to stand up for something more.” Freshman John Eckbert suggested that divestiture is ineffectual and “serves only to appease our guilt and frustration.” Eckbert argued that Davidson’s sale of stocks, if it occurred, would not be significant enough to “affect the company, nor does it bring about divestiture, much less the end of apartheid.” Leslie Hill-Davidson, a lecturer in politics at the Center for

Among the changes are the quiet areas for serious studiers in the basement and second floor. The first floor remains less than solemn (and more social). Sophomore Melissa Dilettuso considers this alteration effective:Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

“My carrel is in the basement and it’s a lot quieter than last year.” Friday night reference service has been replaced by Sunday reference service from 7 p.m. until 10 p.m. Also, the library opens at 1 p.m. on Sunday instead of 2 p.m. For the last three weeks of the term, the library will stay open until midnight on Saturdays. Two bonuses were also added: a five-day grace period on fines and four library personal computers. In regard to the fines, sophomore Sheri Reynolds said, “I’m glad I won’t have to worry about those nickel and dime fines anymore.”

Material contributed by Laura Gabel, Special Studies, cited American investment in South Africa for over 100 years, and she noted that during that time racism has been “enshrined in the constitution” of the nation. She said that she thought divestiture is the “last hope to avoid a bloodbath.” Junior Jimmy Lewis said the push for divestment on the Davidson campus is led by a “small and noisy minority.” He reflected the sentiment that divestiture would not move toward a solution in the South African dilemma. Economics professor C. Louise Nelson stated that Davidson need not “slavishly follow” practices of divestiture made by other schools. She indicated that Davidson should not be held “captive to any political movement,” noting statements from the presidents of Harvard, Yale, and Stanford who indicated similar beliefs. Economics professor Charles Ratliff stated that he did not think any of the alternatives posed would significantly combat the system of apartheid in South Africa, but Ratliff advocated divestiture because “it is a statement.” Ratliff said such a move would be consistent with the college’s Christian commitment, advocating that “we give these people our moral support.” Ratliff further noted divestiture is probably in the college’s self-interest because “it is not prudent to have investments in such a politically unstable economy,” noting Proctor and Gamble’s pull-out of its South African assets.

The forum was interrupted by the announcement that the U.S. Senate had overridden President Reagan’s veto in support of economic sanctions against South Africa.

HOW CAN THE BUDGET-CONSCIOUS COLLEGE STUDENT SAVE MONEY?
a) Save over 50% off AT&T's weekday rates on out-of-state calls during nights and weekends.
b) Don’t buy textbooks when “Monarch Notes” will do just fine.
c) Save 40% off AT&T's weekday rate on out-of-state calls during evenings.
d) Count on AT&T for exceptional value and high-quality service.
e) Hang around with the richest kids in school; let them pick up the tab whenever possible.

If you're like most college students in the western hemisphere, you try to make your money go a long way. That’s why you should know that AT&T Long Distance Service is the right choice for you. AT&T offers so many terrific values. For example, you can save over 50% off AT&T's day rate on calls during weekends from 11 pm Friday until 5 pm Sunday, and from 11 pm Sunday through Friday. Call between 5 pm and 11 pm, Sunday through Friday, and you'll save 40% off our day rate. Ever dial a wrong number? AT&T gives you immediate credit if you do. And of course, you can count on AT&T for clear long-distance connections any place you call. To find out more about how AT&T can help save you money, give us a call. With a little luck, you won’t have to hang around with the rich kids. Call toll-free today, at 800 222-0300. AT&T. The right choice.