By LEE EICHELBERGER

If you can remember back to 1984 when the English synth trio, Talk Talk, released It’s My Life, keep remembering. In fact, take a listen to it or buy it if you have a chance, but don’t spend eight dollars on their latest record, The Colour of Spring. Despite some of the band’s finest production and precise musicianship on vinyl, this record lacks depth and substance. I say this only because of the quality that distinguished their last two efforts. As opposed to the driving rhythm and the “wall of sound” production techniques that dominated those earlier efforts, Talk Talk opted for a stripped and slowed-down sound that highlighted vocals and instrumentals.

Unfortunately, the group succeeded only in exposing the limits of Mark Hollis as a lead singer and songwriter. The result (with a couple of exceptions) is a series of slow, dull songs that lack tension and substance, but sound great. For instance, “Chameleon Day” (I think that the only reason that this one was included was because its title justifies the band’s jump onto the psychedelic bandwagon) is an uninteresting, bland piece that has Hollis backed by a single synth while he oozes about, “break on me, eclipse my mind.”

However, there are a couple of jewels in this trash heap. “I Don’t Believe In You” is one of the best songs that the group has recorded and “Living In Another World” ranks with some of their better work. But take my advice and leave The Colour of Spring for the discount racks, and if you don’t believe me, come by and hear it.

I don't think that before their performance here at Davidson's prestigious 900 Room last fall anyone around here had heard of the Bangles. At that time they were supporting their fascinating debut LP, All Over The Place. Now amid a lot of hooting and pointing by the music press, the Bangles have released their follow-up Different Light. This spirited album is a good effort, but not quite as fine as All Over The Place. Unlike that record, there are only a few exceptional songs here and several good ones. Of these few, “If She Knew What She Wants” stands out as an excellent example that combines sixties pop vocal styles with eighties production values in lines like, “Why would anyone try / To walk a line when they could fly.” But I can’t understand why the band has recorded such throw-away pop numbers as “Manic Monday” and “Walking Down Your Street” beside choice cuts like “In A Different Light” and “Walk Like An Egyptian” unless their goal was crass commercialism. Perhaps this tendency towards commercialism is why this album is more accessible (but less listenable) than their debut.

The band has chosen to expand their sound but without refining it. The Bangles’ dilemma within their style is that, as they put it, “some have a style / That they work hard to refine / So they walk a crooked line.” It seems that the Bangles have chosen to walk the crooked line of intentional commercial success, for this album at least. Nonetheless, Different Light is certainly an enjoyable album that will hold you over until the Bangles release a third album.

If you remotely liked the recent single by the Dream Academy, “Life in a Northern Town” then you'll probably love their self-titled debut album, The Dream Academy. This synthesizer/acoustic guitar-based English trio are rooted deeply in late sixties pop and progressive music with songs based on melodic phrases rather than hooks. The well-crafted album is as smooth and sensual as silk and owes this to superior production by former Pink Floyd guitarist David Gilmour. This is one of those rare records that you can put on the turntable, sit back, close your eyes, and be carried off by (as the name implies).

The music opens the mind without alienating or patronizing the listener. The big surprise is singer Nick Laird-Clowes' lyrics which are intriguingly subtle. The Dream Academy uses the studio well as just another instrument (with credit to Gilmour). For this reason, I know that to see them live would be nothing short of disappointment. Favorite tracks include: “(Johnny) New Light,” “The Edge of Forever,” “Bound to Be,” and “The Love Parade.”