14 co THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
John Gathings, Editor Emeritus
Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Jim Dillon, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Andy Ball, Features Editor
Lee Eichelberger, Inside Art Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Susan Wilkins, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Honor bound

The recent rise in the drinking age has had a deeper effect than most people think. Everybody realizes that it has caused Davidson students to change their social habits. Fine: it’s a fact of life that has to be dealt with. But it has now come out that the judicial system of the college has changed because of the alteration in the drinking age. Our courts have not been altered much, mind you, but it has changed — and in some significant ways.

It now appears that student organizations can be tried by the Honor Council. This has many ramifications, the foremost of which being that organizations are now supposed to be honorable. This is unsound in concept and in reality. First of all, honor can only apply to individuals. True, every student within that group may be honorable, but to hold an organization responsible for its honor is beyond comprehension. For example, the second edition of Webster’s New World Dictionary of the American Language gives the following definition of honor: “a keen sense of right and wrong; integrity.” An organization cannot have this “keen sense of right and wrong;” only the people within that group can have that sense.

Some may argue that we are only speaking in a theoretical sense: that our opposition to trying whole organizations has no real impact. Not true. A corollary to the statement that only individuals can be honorable is that only individuals can be dishonorable. Any dishonorable thing done by an organization is actually done by persons within that organization, and those persons should be held accountable, not the whole group. One person’s misdoings could mean punishment for the whole group. This punishment of all is unfair, plus it lessens the individual’s responsibility.

Another ramification of the rise in the drinking age is the increased use of false identification. Fake I.D.’s are prevalent on campus and that should come as no surprise, given college students’ propensity to drink. There has been a question raised as to how to handle the fake I.D. situation. We believe that the only time the college judicial system should become involved with a student’s possession/use of a fake I.D. is when he/she tries to use it on campus. Otherwise, the police and the individual are the only ones involved. Students are citizens first, members of Davidson College second. Students choose to be here, and it is not the college’s (through the Dean of Students Office or Honor Council) right to impose its morality on matters of no direct concern to the college.

Also, anyone who tries to use a fake I.D. on campus is stupid. Most students know each other’s approximate age, and the risk of having someone find out that you have used a fake I.D. far outweighs the benefits of getting a beer. Besides that, peers at partiesHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

are not hard to come by for a person of any age. We think that the Honor Council should take a look at its role in the Davidson community and consider where the bounds of honor and enforcement thereof lie.

Friday, October 10, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cloudt’s View
NOW THAT WE'VE ELIMINATED EVERY OTHER ORGANIZATION ON CAMPUS, WHY NOT ELIMINATE OURSELVES?

Rascie Non

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters policy
The Davidsonian sees letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we will adhere to the following guidelines:
- The letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. the Tuesday before the expected publication date.
- The letters must be neatly typed.
- The letters should be signed. You must have a compelling reason if you do not want your name printed with the letter.
- We reserve the right not to print letters which are advertisements, contain inside jokes or off-color slurs, or represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed on the same topic.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 882-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, Andee Diedrich, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, Laura Gabel.
Features Staff: Jay Barron, Mark Chen, Lee Eichelberger, Scott Goodwin, Chris Hargrove, Steve Mank.
Sports Staff: Emil Cokaia, Boyd Cue, Pam Harmann, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wilkins.
Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Bill Hartman, Alex Hayden, Ken Jones, Kyong Salt.
Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill.
Production Staff: Sarah Bayne, Beth Bryson, Kim Crabtree, Amelia Fox, Clisby Hall, Pete Mangone, Tom Moore, Kim Robertson, Ibby Sowell, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yarborough.
Compositors: Doug Kim, Ann Roddey.

Opinions policy
The Davidsonian's “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community. We adhere to the following guidelines:
- Any opinion should be in to us by 7 p.m. the Monday before publication, unless it is typed on IBM 5.25” diskette, in which case it is due by 5 p.m. Tuesday.
- We accept typed or legibly written articles only.
- Opinions should be signed. We can only print unsigned ones if there is a compelling reason and the author is known to us (the editors).
- We will not edit opinions for content or style, but for common English usage only. We will inform the author of substantial changes.
- Because of limited space, sometimes we are not able to print all opinions submitted in one issue. We reserve the right to select articles from those we receive for publication. We will attempt to print any withheld article the following week.