Jagged Edge parallels Hitchcock thriller
By MARK CHEN

Jagged Edge is a movie that ought to please lovers of that arch-con, Alfred Hitchcock. It is the kind of movie that critics never like but at which Hitchcock excelled in directing—the slick, well-made, and smoothly turning thriller. All the parts are in the right place, everything happens on time, and the plot twists just enough to be surprising without being too confusing. For though the twists are many, they are all conventional twists taken from the clichés of Hollywood thrillers gone before. This kind of movie is designed for the person who wants something a little more classy than James Bond, but just as trashy.

The plot begins in typical Hitchcock fashion, with something horrible. In this case, it is the brutal murder of a wealthy woman. Wouldn’t you know it, but her will reveals that she left all her wealth to her husband, which happens to include the newspaper at which he is the editor. The district attorney, played by Peter Coyote, makes the brilliant deduction that he killed his spouse in order to inherit the paper. The innocent(?) husband, played by Jeff Bridges, gets arrested for the murder of his wife. At this point in real life, Jeff Bridges would hire a battery of lawyers from New York skilled in every escape hatch of the law. But this is a movie, and a battery of lawyers is no fun. Instead, Bridges insists on his own law firm trying the case, even though its regular practice is corporate law. Well, it does happen to have one lawyer, who hasn't been around very long, played by Glenn Close. She refuses to take the case until driven to by the innocence of her client and the arrogance of the DA. Seems Coyote happens to be running for the Senate and would love to prosecute a rich man in a media-saturated case. Once she decides to take the case (did you think she wouldn’t?), the stage is set.

I'm not going to spoil the movie by telling you what happens, but I will tell you what’s in the movie. First off, sex. Close is frigid at the beginning, but Bridges shows off some very firm pectorals. She eventually gets warmed up to him. For those of you who like sex with a special oomph, there are some very detailed stories about bondage. Second, blood. Not enough to please a devotee of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, but hey! This is a classy movie. Third, money. Everybody is well-dressed and lives in well-furnished homes, even the besotted but efficient and lovable gumshoe. We are treated to plenty of courtroom drama in and outside of the court. “I’ll see you in court, counselor!” “Objection, your honor!” Witnesses go on the stand to reveal the sordid underthings of respectable citizens. New witnesses get sprung on the defense and the prosecution just when things seem to be going their way. We even get a dramatic courtroom confession. Perry Mason would love it.

Everything in the movie is old hat to a watcher of Hitchcock, but it is well done. Glenn Close looks a little like Grace Kelly, but in the Eighties, she plays the role of Jimmy Stewart, the hapless innocent in a world full of terrors. Making a woman the central character is one of the few departures from Hitchcock. In her role, Close does well as the competent lawyer who is slightly stupid about evil. Jeff Bridges has the all-American look of Stewart, but he plays the ambiguous role of the guilty-looking defendant. He manages to look sneaky even when he sheepishly grins. Coyote fits his part as the menacing DA, never smiling except with wicked satisfaction. The movie itself looks like a Hitchcock thriller. It is shot with the pale craftsmanship of Hitchcock, when all the colors are bright but they all look chilly. The movie works like a smoothly running time-bomb, all set to explode.

When this movie first came out, many critics faulted it for a number of things. They said it was shallow, artificial, and clichéd. The critics were absolutely right. Lawyers preparing for a tough case do not have all the time in the world for horseback riding or making love with their clients. They also do not have nervous breakdowns trying to figure out if their clients are innocent (This is not an anti-lawyer sentiment. I plan to be one myself). Most trials are incredibly slow and boring affairs. All DAs do not run for public office. I have a quibble myself. For one thing, Jaclyn Smith would...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

have fit better into the Glenn Close role. Smith has already played a lawyer in Sidney Sheldon movies. Besides that, the movie does what it is supposed to do, which is entertain. If anyone wishes to quibble with that aim, he or she should go see The Seventh Seal by Ingmar Bergman (It is about death, death, and more death.) For those of you who like a slick thriller that goes down easy, head to Love Auditorium at 7:30 or 9:45 tonight.

A juggler performs at the freshman talent show

The Davidsonian
Friday, September 19, 1986

The new adventures of G.I. Joe
By STEVE MANK

One of the peculiar side effects of growing up in the open-minded, free-spirited, androgynous 1960s was the new toys we got. While my father “persuaded” countless prisoners of war to build erector set bridges over the river Kwai, my own childhood centered around a doll. It wasn’t a doll of the baby variety like my mother used to drag by the hair around the house. No, my doll had a crew cut, a deep facial scar, and combat boots. He and all his buddies were called G.I. Joe: a perplexing title which brought on, in my fifth year, an epiphany regarding the real army’s use of surnames.

Each holiday I received a package containing some fancy new duds in olive drab and an uzi or two. Just like the real army, all his clothes looked the same. Unlike the real army, however, all his brass knuckles and knives and guns and grenades and mines and missile launchers and napalm disappeared. Being a compassionate commanding officer, I chose not to believe the weapons had fallen into the hands of a filthy nine-inch commie maggot and therefore did not discharge him.

Instead, I poured honey into his “life-like hair” and buried him up to his neck in an ant pile. Emily, who lived down the street from me, also had a new kind of doll. In lieu of a bald head, fat limbs, and a bottle-sucking mouth, Barbie had silky hair, lithe legs, cherry lips, and get this, breasts. Sure they may have been little more than pink, plastic lumps, but I didn’t even realize they were wrong until I saw those horrific multicolored diagrams in my seventh-grade biology book. Joe had some lumps of his own. Emily used to try and get me to play with her Ken, but he was too wimpy. He used to take Barbie to balls and boring stuff like that. But the scenarios we created between Barbie and G.I. Joe were riveting:

Joe: (Invariably) Honey, I’m home.
Barbie: Oh hi honey. What did you do today?
Joe: I stuck bamboo slivers under the thumbnails of an evil perpetrator of the Red Threat. What did you do in the Oval Office?
Barbie: I made a law so that kids are the bosses.
Joe: Neato.
Barbie: Let’s take our clothes off.
Joe: Okay, you first.
Barbie: No, you first.
Joe: Well, let’s do it together. (They strip down to their lumps). (Long pause)
Barbie: That was fun.
Joe: Yea.
Barbie: Well, I better go make more laws. (She dresses and leaves as Joe polishes his tank.)

This tableau repeated itself time and again until the fateful day when Joe was no more. Suddenly, the toy stores were bankrupt of his stony visage. Meanwhile, Barbie grew more sophisticated. She tanned at Malibu, relaxed in a penthouse, and traveled in a very well-stocked jet. Barbie enjoyed life to the hilt not remembering her lover Joe who was either dead or dying in the vengeful tortuous clutches of the pinko swine. But not long ago Joe resurfaced a decidedly changed man. The most noticeable difference was his height. Presumably, through some evil experiment, he was rendered a mere five-inch shadow of his former self. What's more, the embittered champion of the American Way had gathered around him a fierce band of freedom fighters and an arsenal of super tanks, helicopters, and headquarters. Worst of all, his clothes, now plastic, were permanently molded onto his soldier’s skin.

Epilogue
Joe: Barbie!
Barbie: Yes.
Joe: It’s me, G.I. Joe.
Barbie: Oh, hi Joe.
Joe: How have you been?
Barbie: Fine, I’m Secretary General of the United Nations now.
Joe: Oh, I’m an embittered champion of the American Way.
Barbie: Hm.
Joe: I was wondering if...
Barbie: Listen Joe, I better leave. I have a date with Ken.
Joe: Couldn't we at least strip down to our lumps?
Barbie: I’m sorry. Bye.
Joe: Bye. (Barbie hops into Ken’s new “mirror finish Corvette” as Joe walks slowly away.)