Friday, May 2, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN
15

Davidson losing small atmosphere
Roy Vilardi

The times at Davidson they are a-changing. There is a great deal of talk on campus these days about the
amount of partying that is going on, its bad effects, particularly upon the freshmen. As most people know, beginning next
year freshmen will not be allowed to attend parties on Patterson Court until the seventh week of classes. Students are
complaining more and more about the disruptions caused by partiers returning to their dorm rooms late at night. I’m sure
the students and faculty can see that the way we as students party has changed a great deal in amount
and intensity in the last year. Perhaps, some say, if we place limits upon Patterson Court the problems will go
away. This might temporarily remove the symptoms, but I believe that the change in the social complexion of this school
is a sign of a larger problem which involves everyone at Davidson and demands closer attention from the administration.

I give you an example. The typical Davidson brochure to prospective students is filled with phrases like, “college community,” “the
small college experience,” “individual attention” and so forth. We sell smallness and the great advantages that come with studying the
liberal arts at a small college. We seek to encourage and portray the close-knit college family where the opportunity exists
not only to obtain a unique education, but also to grow in an environment of closeness, security and familiarity. This
is what Davidson has provided in the past; what has made the school unique, and what inspires so many alumni
and alumnae to contribute financially.

Through the subjective eyes of a sophomore, however, I am beginning to notice a problem, or at least, something different
from what I had expected. A friend once remarked that “Davidson has become a big university, but with 1,400 students.”
He was right: Davidson is no longer as small as it looks.

Davidson students used to be young white male protestants from the South with similar social and economic backgrounds. All took
the same required courses and chose from a limited selection of classes. All students, as I understand it, were required
to attend chapel. Virtually every student belonged to a fraternity. The Honor Code itself rests on the belief that we
are a community with a common social and ethical outlook. It was from Davidson’s long-standing tradition of homogeneity that the
Honor Code emerged.

Now the college’s faculty and students come from diverse backgrounds and from all over the world. Students can choose to
study abroad, major with the Center for Special Studies, or participate in the Dean Rusk Program. If I am not
mistaken, Davidson is the smallest school in the nation participating in Division I athletics, and has plans to build a
new athletic facility. In short, the college's best and most recent progress has been to make the “Davidson experience” more
diverse and cosmopolitan. Any student knows there is a lot to do here, many different possibilities for student life. I
do not contend that the college should erase these great changes, but somewhere we (the students) seem to have lost
that communal feeling which we cultivated in the past and now talk about so much...

I run the risk of being called small-minded and conservative; but I believe right now there is nothing (from the
students’ point of view) which brings together the entire college community; to instill and reaffirm that now fading sense that
we are a community with common goals and aspirations. The Honor Code and Convocation do not fill the gap. We
are only 1,400 students but we don’t feel small or, rather, unified. Somewhere along the path to becoming a nationally
known and recognized institution this college has torn its soft under-belly. What the student body lacks is group identity above
and beyond the party scene. This is not to criticize any of the houses on Patterson Court. They perform their
functions very well. However, when the only way to create a bond between yourself and a large percentage of the
student body is to go to a fraternity party (or other function), then something is wrong. This is the whole
college’s problem, not just Patterson Court's.

The Davidson community must ensure that its students are “self-conscious.” The recent problems with vandalism also indicate that some students
are failing to identify with and assume a responsibility for the college community. The problems with partying created on these
two fronts, and must be solved there. Everyone loses when we as students only identify ourselves as equal, interdependent members
of a greater student body when we have beers in our hands. If I am wrong, then what can be
said about the mentality behind a “pre-convocation party?” Were these isolated instances of irresponsible behavior, or a sign of a
greater problem?

Yes, the times they are a-changing; but I hope and expect that we as a community will be able to
instill a sense of unity in the student body, beyond the party scene at Patterson Court, before the problem is
beyond help.

Vilardi is a sophomore from Terrytown, NY

Wasted evenings are greatest kind of education
William Naso

At Spring Convocation, Dean Zimmermann chastised Davidson students for not taking better advantage of the tremendous educational opportunities available through
the college. Instead of attending lectures, reading a worthwhile book, or simply preparing for the next day’s class, Davidson students
spend their time attending fraternity functions, playing cards, or preparing for the next weeknight party. What a waste, he implied.
I contend, however, that these “wasted” evenings are among the greatest educational opportunities available for a student. Learning seldom occurs
inside a classroom where thirty students listen to one professor lecture for thirty minutes on a subject he has taught
for thirty years. Any discussion which by chance takes place is usually fruitless — since the professor has already decided
that he hasFound the “answer,” he believes that his role is merely to guide the student to the same revelation
he had years ago. This process is not learning. In the Platonic dialogue Phaedrus, Socrates rebukes Phaedrus for maintaining that
the written word — in both books and prepared speeches — was a means to knowledge: “Anyone who leaves behind
a written manual, and likewise anyone who takes it over from him on the supposition that such writing will provide
something reliable and permanent must be exceedingly simple-minded: he must really be ignorant . . . if he imagines that
written words can do anything more than remind one who knows that which the writing is concerned with.” True learning
can only take place through the dialectic, a method in which participants actively engage in a series of questions and
answers, a process whose goal is not to win an argument but to discover the truth. Living speech, discourse, conversations
between sincere persons — this method is the best way to learn. Knowledge comes not from “teaching” but from questioning.
Man discovers, nay recovers, truth only when he asks or is asked the proper questions. In the Meno, after Socrates
questions an unschooled slave-boy, the child realizes that hidden within himself were true opinions about geometry. Socrates does not teach
the boy: he merely asks questions — the right questions. Seldom, however, are the correct questions considered, let alone actually
posed. I think that most people are uncomfortable discussing important questions — ones like “who am I?” “why am I
here?” “where do I come from?” — with people with whom they have not built a trust. Trust is not
built in the classroom. Lately, I think, faculty members, administrators, and students have forgotten the tremendous importance of a viable
social scene. When we leave Davidson, we will be most thankful, not for the facts we remember, but for the
friends we retain. I can still recall one night freshman year before a Chem. 31 test. After realizing the utter
futility of our predicament, for some reason a friend and I began talking about something which probably won't rattle the
academic world but was and is important to us. We carried our conversation down to a Patterson Court party and
soon there were four of us on the back porch talking about Thoreau and “Higher Laws.” I'm not saying that
at every party conversations of tremendous depth take place, but the friendships which can develop there will yield conversations of
tremendous depth. Classroom lectures and readings of prepared speeches are important and perhaps can lead to learning, but ultimately they
are stagnant. Real learning takes place in the late-night conversations that occur at fraternity functions, card games, and while preparing
for the next week-night party. Naso is a senior political science major from Charlotte, NC.

South African problem doesn’t demand divestment
Rob Spiegel

I'm so tired of seeing all those liberal anti-apartheid signs decorating our campus!!! Don’t start thinking that I approve of
apartheid. I probably dislike the idea of apartheid as much as the next guy, however, I believe that disinvestment can
only hurt the people we want to help. To begin with, it’s the black people in South Africa who work
in the auto and textile industries, and in the gold and diamond mines. If we disinvest from these companies, who's
going to be laid off in order to make up for the lack of revenues, probably not the white minority.
Therefore, the blacks lose their jobs and thus an income to raise their families and educate their children. South Africa
is probably the wealthiest country in Africa and from articles I’ve read in the past, I have been led to
believe that the blacks in South Africa are much better off than their counterparts in say Mozambique, Angola, or Zimbabwe.
Therefore, I ask you, why should we urge disinvestment? Many people are trying to pressure the South African government into
a rapid change in its apartheid practices. Why? Maybe apartheid isn't fair, but look at what happened in Rhodesia when
the governments of the United States and of Great Britain along with the United Nations all urged rapid change in
Rhodesia. Robert Mugabe and Joshua Nkomo took control of the country. Do you believe that life is any better for
blacks there than they were? As it stands now, the country of South Africa is in a potentially dangerous position.
A revolution could occur at any time. I'm sure the government recognizes this fact. That’s why the people in control
are making changes. As long as the black South Africans see good changes coming about why should they want a
revolution to occur? Also, South Africa borders at least one Soviet-supported country, Mozambique, and is near another, Angola. If we
urge black South Africans into a revolutionary zeal, the Soviets are in a good position to influence a new government,
if one developed. I personally advocate a slow gradual change in apartheid. If apartheid is done away with immediately, I
claim that the resulting way of life would be a cultural shock to both blacks and whites. Let's go back
in time. Let's take a look at the method in which black Americans gained equality. They gained it slowly, with
a gradual change sparked by a number of incidents. Black Americans are much better off now than they were 25
years ago. There are positive changes going on all the time. Granted, things may not be perfect. There still are
people like the KKK, however their numbers are dwindling all the time. South Africa has had its spark and now
it is time for gradual change, which we see going on at this moment with the relaxation of “pass” laws.
Life has been getting better for black South Africans during the past five or so years. As long as the
changes stay positive, why should we meddle in a country that isn't ours? Spiegel is a freshman from Atlanta, GA.
