Sports Baseball team sets hitting record in winning year By BOYD COGGINS

Davidson's baseball team enters their last week of play having lost three tough road games last week to Georgia and UNCC. These losses add to the winless streak which has now reached nine games. Davidson hopes to end the season on a bright note this weekend as they take on UNCC in a doubleheader at home on Friday afternoon. The Cats’ overall record now stands at 21-18-1.

Against Georgia last week, the Cats scored two runs in the first inning to jump out to an early lead. Sophomore Bill Masse started the game with a single to left. Senior Keith Helfant then followed with a rip to right field. With men on first and second, junior David Turgeon reached base on a fielder’s choice when the shortstop threw out Masse going to third. The next batter, sophomore Alan Lewis, singled to right to load the bases. With only one man out, junior Dan Simonds hit a sacrifice fly to right field which scored Helfant. Turgeon scored also when the right fielder made an errant throw while trying to put out the runner.

However, this lead was erased in the bottom of the first when Derek Lilliquist smashed a double to right field which scored two runs. Davidson took a brief 3-2 lead in the fifth when Masse doubled and scored on a single by Helfant. But Georgia regained the lead in the sixth when Jeff Bennett hit a three-run homer. The Bulldogs added their last two runs in the eighth inning when right fielder Steve Carter blasted a two-run homer to left field to make the final score 7-3. Leading hitters for the Cats were Lewis, Masse, and Helfant who each had two hits.

In the first meeting of the season between Davidson and UNCC, the 49ers got the best of the Cats, 10-2. The 49ers used four home runs and seven base-on-balls to establish their margin of victory. Their big inning was the fifth when they scored five runs on an RBI single, a three-run homer, and a solo home run. Masse accounted for both Davidson runs when he scored in the fourth inning on an RBI single by Lewis and hit a solo homer to lead off the ninth inning. It was his tenth home run of the year which ties the Davidson single-season record. For the game, the Cats had six hits with Masse and Helfant grabbing two apiece.

In last Friday night’s game played at Crockett Park, Davidson lost a hard-fought battle to the 49ers by the score of 11-8. The Cats scored five runs in the first two innings to take a 5-1 lead. The 49ers came back in the fourth and fifth innings as they scored three runs in each inning to take a 7-5 advantage. In the sixth inning, the Cats again regained the lead when they scored three runs. However, UNCC took the victory when they scored four runs in the bottom of the eighth inning. For the game, Davidson got their eight runs on ten hits. Helfant and Turgeon led the Cats with three hits apiece. The Cats also blasted three home runs as junior David Depaul, Helfant, and senior Tim Waters connected for round trippers. Junior Steve Condon was the tough luck loser.as he struck out five and allowed 14 hits over seven and two-thirds innings. His record now stands at 9-2 on the season. The Cats of 1986 have completed another successful season this spring as they have won over twenty games for the second year in a row under fifth-year head coach George Greer. With all of the key players returning from last season, the Cats finished second in the Southern Conference southern division. This finish earned them a berth in the conference tournament for the second time in as many seasons. This team also set new records for highest batting average, home runs, and runs batted in.

Leading the hitting attack for the Cats, who set a new single-season team batting average of .333, was Lewis who hit .428 and set a new Davidson single-season record for doubles with 17. Turgeon and Depaul also contributed to the Cats' success by hitting .363 and .360 respectively. Turgeon, in only his third season as a Wildcat, has set career records for home runs and RBIs, while Depaul, who hit only .195 last season, raised his average by 165 percentage points and also has hit eight home runs.

The pitching staff improved greatly this season as they lowered their team ERA by almost a full run per game. The Cats' top pitcher for the season was junior Steve Condon who won his first nine games of the season and established a new single-season record for victories. Senior Scott Weaver had a good season as he finished his career with more victories than any other Wildcat pitcher to date. Other pitchers who provided the Cats with consistent starting pitching were junior Billy Waitsman and sophomore Dave Fitzgerald. The top freshmen pitchers were Brian Moure and Jeff Loser who both pitched well as relievers and should become two of Davidson’s top pitchers next season.

The Cats won their twenty games against the most challenging schedule a Davidson team has ever had to face. In addition to their Southern Conference schedule, Davidson played four Atlantic Coast Conference games, Big East Conference champions Connecticut, and Southeastern Conference contender Georgia. Even with this schedule, the Cats came away with victories over Wake Forest, North Carolina State, Connecticut, and Jacksonville. The highlight of the season came when the Cats swept a three-game series from eventual Southern Conference champion Western Carolina.

Davidson loses four outstanding seniors from this year’s club. They are Helfant, Waters, pitcher Chip Knox, and Weaver. These co-captains, who were the first players recruited by Greer, have contributed a lot of time and talent into the program which they have seen grow and prosper over their four years. Much of the Cats' success this season can be attributed to these players who have provided the leadership and experience necessary to produce a winning team.

For next season, Davidson will have a combination of experience and youth. Twenty-five veterans return with a new crop of freshmen who will combine to make Davidson a contender once again for the Southern Conference championship. With most of the top batters and pitchers returning, the Cats look to continue breaking records as Greer builds the baseball program into a perennial Southern Conference power.