2 Friday, September 26, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News Shorts

Winterguard group forms

Recently, four Davidson students have organized an effort to form a winterguard at Davidson. The founders, Carl Whipple, Tom Whipple, David Alyea, and Greta Ratliff, all of whom have drum and bugle corps or winterguard experience, are enthusiastic about the task they’ve undertaken. A winterguard is an indoor flag and rifle corps that performs at competitions on the Winterguard International Circuit and at basketball games. There are usually twenty members in the corps, yet the organizers, realizing Davidson has a small student body, are hoping to fill twelve spots on this year’s first corps. The ten-minute performance consists of precise and disciplined flag and rifle work combined with lively dance and music.

There will be an organizational meeting on Monday, Sept. 29, 1986, at 8:30 p.m. in the Big Screen Room. All those interested are encouraged to attend, and anyone who cannot be present is asked to contact Tom at 892-7751 or David at 892-6191. Afterwards, highlights of the Drum Corps International World Championships broadcast on PBS at 9:00 will be shown in the Big Screen Room. Both Carl and David participated in this finale to a summer-long tour of the United States with the Sky Riders, who finished ninth out of 36 corps.

Williams wins fitness award

“Being physically fit gives me the edge.” With a wry smile and a mischievous wink, Dean Williams catches himself and adds, “If he seems cocky, then at least his attitude is well-founded.” Williams, a cadet in Davidson’s Army ROTC program, distinguished himself by winning the General Joe Barr Regimental Fitness Award during his six weeks of ROTC Advanced Camp this past summer. The award recognizes the cadet with the best performance on the Army Physical Readiness Test. Williams competed with over 500 cadets in three events: pushups, situps, and a two-mile run. The first two events measure the number of pushups and situps a cadet can complete within two minutes. Grading is very rigorous; no credit is given for pushups or situps that do not meet the exacting standards of the graders. Williams pumped out 88 pushups and 87 situps, and then went on to give an equally scorching performance in the two-mile run, finishing in 10:50. Each event contributed to give him the highest overall score in the regiment.

When asked to comment on how he had prepared for the competition, Williams explained that he had always been in good physical condition and had simply followed a regular regimen consisting of three sets of 70 pushups, 200 situps, and a five-mile run. Nothing to it, right? Williams added that the importance of whatever exercise one does is not so much what kind or how much, but rather how often. With this knowledge in mind, Williams compelled himself to work out at least every other day.

Material contributed by Pete Mangone

Careers Office offers wide variety of services

By LUCIA KENDALL

A new computer system, a graduate school day, and a job options bazaar are projects the Careers Office will undertake during the fall term. “Discover” is a new computer career development system. Its functions include asking a student questions on his or her interests, abilities, and level of experience and then suggesting possible fields; helping to select graduate schools based on a variety of criteria; and providing basic information on graduate schools (size, area of the country, entrance requirements, costs, etc.). Students may make appointments for hour segments on the computer from approximately 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., although the Career Center will be able to accommodate students who need to come in on weekends or evenings.

Continued from page 1

Drama professor and Sesquicentennial Coordinator Rupert Barber and Assistant Coordinator Jean Jackson will plan celebratory activities for the college, town, and Davidson College Presbyterian Church, each of which observes its sesquicentennial in 1987. The front two rooms of Copeland House will be used as temporary offices for Barber and Jackson and as a Visitor Center of sesquicentennial rotating displays; in 1988, these rooms will become additional College Relations offices, with possible continuation of a reception area for college visitors, Barber said.

Thirty-five graduate schools will be in Chambers Gallery on Oct. 2 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.p.m. to distribute information to students. On Oct. 1 there will be seminars on how to choose a graduate school and how to finance a graduate education. A Job Options Bazaar will be held Oct. 16 for those who are interested in entering the job market after graduation. Thirty-two recruiters will be present to make students more familiar with their companies and to identify students as possible employees. Ken Wood, director of the Careers Office, encourages students to take this event seriously and recognizes that it is an excellent opportunity not only to collect information, but also to establish early contact with employers. “You really have to market yourself,” he said. “Make sure that the recruiters leave knowing your name, face, and credentials. Also, it’s important to realize that employers are looking for people with a variety of majors and that they look at more than GPA’s. There are a lot of ways for special people to draw attention to their skills and abilities.”

Wood also wishes to emphasize that although banks and insurance companies are more often represented in programs like the Job Options Bazaar, the Career Center also concentrates on cultural and human services that don’t recruit at colleges as often. Students are invited to stop by the resource room anytime to look at the catalogs, directories, and other information on careers, graduate schools, international jobs, and summer internships, said Wood.

Currently owned by the Copeland family and on long-term lease to the College, the building served as a student boarding house in the 1880s. “The house, a part of which is probably ante-bellum, was bought and enlarged by Dr. William Holt [a local physician who practiced in what is now the side yard] by the 1870s,” Assistant Director of the Library Mary Beaty said. The faculty offices replacing these administrative offices in Chambers include space for members of the psychology, sociology and anthropology, and education departments.

Williams learned early on that there are more benefits to physical fitness than simply physical capability. Dean holds that fitness is a great confidence booster and that “physical and mental endurance are somehow intertwined, and combine to create a more capable officer.” Williams states that another valuable derivative has been the discipline that achieving and sustaining physical fitness demands. By forcing himself to get out and exercise on days when he just didn’t want to do it, Dean developed a discipline that he claims has permeated other aspects of his life, such as academics. Williams strongly urges anyone who desires confidence and discipline to get into the habit of rigorous physical exercise. Dean Williams is a senior English major and commander of the ROCS (Ranger Oriented Cadets).

Freshman Regatta fun

Classes began meeting last Wednesday in the new first-floor classroom and seminar room. The conversion of a second-floor classroom into three offices centralizes the philosophy department, Kelton said. “We will continue working this fall to complete planning now underway,” Kelton said of the Space Committee. “We will create a new [Ray and Mary Copeland] language center in the south basement near the computer terminal rooms and the Xerox area. Personnel will move from that area — that will create more classroom and office space on the third floor.” Kelton said plans call for completion of the proposed language center by the beginning of the 1987-88 academic year.

Other suggested changes include moving the Office of Institutional Advancement from Chambers within two years. According to Meetze, “We hope to move other administrative offices out of Chambers. We aren't just going to pick up and move everyone,” he said, mentioning the president’s and dean of students’ offices as examples of offices expected to remain in Chambers. “I would hope new dormitories would replace the perimeter housing as soon as possible,” Meetze said. “We have a goal of providing additional dormitory space to alleviate the perimeter housing problem. There are problems associated with perimeter houses of maintenance, utility expense, and location.” Kuykendall noted, “We recovered McConnell House at a loss of total beds on campus. I would want those who covet the opportunity to live in a perimeter house not to be overly upset.”