Sports

East Tennessee nips Davidson in third overtime

By BOYD COGGINS

Last Monday night, Davidson and East Tennessee State got into an old-fashioned brawl as both teams looked to strengthen their hold on first place in the Southern Conference. It was a close game all the way, with the two teams going into triple overtime before Davidson fell 80-76 in Johnson City for the second year in a row. Last year, the Cats fell 68-67 in overtime. The heartbreaking loss drops the Cats to 10-6 overall and 3-2 in the Conference.

The game started with ETSU (8-7, 5-1) running out to a 12-2 lead with good outside shooting. Their defense also caused Davidson a lot of problems by making them take long-range jumpers and preventing them from getting the ball inside. The Buccaneers continued to build their lead until they led 24-13 with 2:50 left in the half. At this point, Davidson was able to get into gear and outscore the Bucs 12-4 to cut the deficit to 28-25 at the half. Key baskets during this spurt were made by sophomore Derek Rucker, junior Ace Tanner, and seniors Gerry Born and Pepper Bego.

The second half began with both teams trading baskets, and neither team able to gain a definite advantage. With 11:36 left in the game and ETSU leading 44-38, Davidson ran off nine straight points to take its first lead of the game at 47-44 with 9:30 left in regulation. This second Wildcat run was started by a Tanner steal and fast-break slam dunk. This was followed by two Bego jumpers and a three-point play by sophomore Jeff Himes. Davidson seemed to be taking control of the game at this point, but ETSU would not give in. With 1:03 left in the game, the Cats grabbed a four-point lead at 57-53 on a jumper by Himes. The Buccaneers answered with a basket by Steve Shirley with 57 seconds left. Davidson then worked the ball around looking for a good shot. The Cats shot with 12 seconds remaining, but it bounded high off the rim and in the ensuing action, an offensive rebounding foul was called on Davidson. The foul sent the game's high scorer James Tandy (23 points) to the line where he hit both free throws to send the game into overtime.

In the first overtime, Davidson built a 62-59 advantage with 42 seconds left after junior guard Chris Heineman hit both ends of a one-and-one. The Buccaneers then went down the court and scored on a rebound shot by Scott Daniel, making the score 62-61. With 10 seconds left in overtime, Himes was fouled and went to the line where he connected on one out of two free throws, which gave Davidson a 63-61 lead. Tandy, who grabbed the missed foul shot, sprinted down the court and hit a 20-foot jumper with two seconds left to send the game into the second overtime.

Heineman scored all four of Davidson’s points in the second overtime as they again had a chance to win. Trailing 67-65, ETSU tied the score on a basket by Tim Austin with 48 seconds left. Davidson had a chance to win on a last-second shot, but they were unable to connect on a desperation attempt by Heineman from the right baseline.

The Buccaneers took control in the third overtime. Their quickness on defense and movement on offense took its toll on the Cats, who seemed to tire. During this third extra period, Himes, Heineman, and Tanner all fouled out, leaving the Cats disadvantaged on both offense and defense. With 1:30 left in the game, the Buccaneers jumped out to a 76-70 lead. The Cats valiantly battled back and cut the deficit to two points at 76-74 on a bucket by Rucker and two free throws by Neibuhr. But with only 13 seconds left, Shirley hit two free throws to secure the victory. Davidson scored its final basket on a steal and jumper by sophomore Dean Keener to make the final margin 80-76.

This loss comes as a big blow to the Cats, who were looking to continue their winning ways. They played excellent defense, coming up with big steals and crucial rebounds which kept them in the game. Although in the position to win the game three times, Davidson could not hit the clutch basket or free throw that would have put the game away. For the game, they hit on 45.5 percent of their field goals and 69.6 percent of their free throws. Rucker led the Cats in scoring with 19 points.

Credit must also be given to the Buccaneers, who played an extremely tight 2-1-2 zone defense which kept the Cats from getting many points from their inside game. This pressure physically wore down the Cats in the third overtime, allowing the Buccaneers to take control.

The Cats’ next game is Saturday night in Charleston, S.C., where they take on the Citadel Bulldogs and hope to capture one victory on this three-game road trip. Davidson beat them two weeks ago.ago 82-76 to open Southern Conference play. The Cats are only one game out of first place and still in the race for the conference championship. A win Saturday and one next Monday at home against Furman will put the Cats back on the track toward the conference crown.

Davidsonian Top 20 Basketball Poll
Compiled by the Sports Editor

1. North Carolina
2. Memphis State
3. Georgia Tech
4. Duke
5. Michigan
6. Kansas
7. Oklahoma
8. St. John’s
9. Kentucky
10. Nevada-L. Vegas
11. Georgetown
12. Syracuse
13. Louisiana State
14. Louisville
15. Purdue
16. Notre Dame
17. Ala.-Birmingham
18. Virginia Tech
19. Bradley
20. Texas-El Paso

Wrestlers get strong efforts during tough week
By KEITH FINCH

The Davidson wrestlers had a tough time this week, winding up with two losses and a tie bringing their season record to 3-3-1. While the Wildcat grapplers fell to the Washington and Lee Generals Saturday afternoon, losing by a score of 42-9, they fared somewhat better Wednesday night against North Carolina A&T, tying them 27-27, and Pfeiffer College, barely losing 30-24.

After a four-and-a-half hour ride to Lexington, Va. Saturday, the Davidson wrestlers arrived to find themselves outclassed. The Wildcats sustained losses by pins in four weight classes — 118 pounds, 126 pounds, 158 pounds, and 167 pounds — as well as a loss by forfeit in the 190-pound category (normally filled by senior Griff Elder who hyperextended his knee in practice). Davidson sophomore Bill Breidenstine lost a 17-4 decision in the 142-pound weight class; his speedy opponent let him escape four times — only to take him down again each time. Junior J.T. Lay lost a 5-2 decision at 150 pounds, while at 177 pounds senior Don Stovall lost 14-3 in a match which was similar to Breidenstine’s in that Stovall also earned all his points from escapes.

Davidson freshman Mark Harris won a rough-and-tumble match in the 134-pound weight class; his opponent seemed unable to keep him off his feet (and unable to stay on his own) as Harris stood up over and over again. Harris won by a score of 20-13. In a special exhibition match senior Taylor Simpson came from behind to defeat his 158-pound opponent by a score of 10-8. The only other Davidson win of the day was in the heavyweight division; junior Gary Branch took his opponent to the mat and turned a tilt into a pinning combination to win the match in 2:08. The six points Davidson received from his pin weren’t enough to defeat the Generals, however; Washington & Lee won the match by 33 points.

Wednesday night in Johnston Gym the Wildcats took on Pfeiffer College and NC A&T in a round-robin three-way match-up. All through the night Davidson had to forfeit the 118-pound weight class normally filled by junior Mike Adams, temporarily out of the competition with a strained back muscle. In competition against NC A&T two Davidson wrestlers, 126-pounder freshman Rufus Timberlake and 134-pound Harris, received forfeits. Two Wildcats scored pins; 167-pound sophomore Tim Heinze took his opponent down twice and turned him to his back to win in 4:42, while Simpson won the 177-pound match 2:27 into the first period. Lay won a 10-7 decision at 150 pounds, purposely releasing his opponent three times in order to take him back to the mat for more points. Four Davidson wrestlers lost their matches; Breidenstine lost 6-4 at 142 pounds, while at 158 pounds freshman Sherb Sentell lost by a technical fall and Elder and Branch lost by pins in the 190-pound and heavyweight divisions.

In the action against Pfeiffer College four Davidson grapplers — Harris, Elder, Timberlake, and Simpson lost by falls, while Lay and Branch accepted forfeits. Sophomore Tim Heinze controls his opponent. Breidenstine scored Davidson's only pin against Pfeiffer by taking his opponent down with a fireman’s carry in the first seconds of the match to win in 1:06. Sentell won a close 8-7 decision, while Heinze demonstrated true domination of his opponent as he countered his opponent’s attempts at fireman’s carries, tilted him onto his back twice, intentionally released him in order to take him back down, and finally watched as his defeated and frustrated opponent gave up and crawled off the mat in the last seconds to give Heinze the match, 15-3.

When the dust cleared it turned out that Davidson had tied NC A&T 27-27 and lost to Pfeiffer by six points, 30-24. Pfeiffer and NC A&T also tied, and by the same score — 27-27. Coach Tom Oddo said of the match: “I think we started slowly. We needed to get going sooner. We lost too many matches and we gave up too many points early on, but I think we finished much, much better.”

The Davidson wrestlers travel back to Lexington, Virginia this weekend to take part in a tournament at Washington & Lee University, and to Elon College Wednesday. They host Georgia Tech Thursday in Johnston Gym at 7 p.m.