12

— Friday, October 24, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcats improve times but fall short of victory —

By EDWIN PAGE

Last Thursday, the Davidson men's and women’s cross country teams participated in the North Carolina State Invitational meet. The men’s
team finished eighth out of 13 and the women’s team placed sixth in a field of seven.

The meet was open to any college team in the state and featured the best competition that Davidson has faced
this year.

Junior Chris Fisher once again paced the men’s team. The meet was especially pleasing because of the fact that every
Davidson runner except one posted his best time of the season (when adjusted to five miles). Senior captain Emil Cekada
placed third for the Cats behind Fisher and senior Greg Foreman and in the process he chopped more than 1:20
off of his previous best time. Freshman Jay Clugston, who improved his best time by over thirty seconds, and sophomore
Bob Cornish rounded out the top five for Davidson.

Coach Gary Andrew was happy with the men’s results. “It was a good strong effort. I am very pleased to
see them back on track."

Despite finishing sixth out of a seven-team field, there were some fine individual efforts on the women’s side. Junior Laura
Fannin paced the Cats while posting her best time to date. Freshman Lisa Culbertson also ran her best race of
the season to place third for Davidson. Freshman Missy Willis, usually the number one runner for the women, finished second
despite being slowed by allergies that have curtailed her training.

Juniors Morrow Reeves and Karen Kemerait finished the scoring for Davidson.

Tomorrow, both teams run in their first home race of the season. The women will take on Western Carolina and
Wake Forest starting at 10 a.m. and the men will run against Duke in addition to WCU and WFU beginning
one hour later.

NYA JAM 1986

Come to the 6th Annual Kenya Jam at PiKA.

Saturday, October 25 at 9:30 p.m.

A $2.00 donation at the door will go to Davidson Alumni teaching in Kenya.

Be There!

$1.00 OFF any large Pizza

PIE IN THE SKY

Good from 10/24 - 10/29

Next Week on Oct. 30, 31, & Nov. 1

10% off all pizza

PHONE IN OR TO-GO ORDERS WELCOMED

Mon.-Thurs. 11 a.m.-10 p.m.

663-7189

125-2 N. Main St. In The Markade (Behind Magic Rental) Mooresville
Fri. & Sat. 11 a.m.-12 midnight

2 Blocks down from What-A-Burger.
If you pass Belk, you've gone too far.

Sun. 4 p.m.-9 p.m.

The Better SWEATER

Crew necks & V-Necks in the basic and new fashion colors... including solids, stripes, and argyles.

Assortment includes cotton, shetlands, lambswool, blends, and cashmere.

Come Browse and See!

Fashion & Quality Apparel for Men & Women

Downtown Mooresville

9 a.m. ‘til 5:30 p.m. Mon-Sat.

Craig Carlock Chuck Harris Mary Erwin Mark Sandy

FIRST UNION

Five Good Reasons to Bank with Us

Jill Boyette

STUDENT ADVISORY BOARD

Main St., Davidson
