Sports The Davidsonian. Wednesday, March 26, 1986

Davidson falls to Kentucky in NCAA's

By EDWIN PAGE

For ten minutes, it was all you would expect from a fight between two wildcats. The Wildcats from Davidson and their counterparts from Kentucky scratched and clawed each other without either side being able to gain a decided advantage. But then, the combination of Davidson foul trouble and Kentucky talent began to make the difference as the bluegrass boys pulled away to a 12-point halftime lead and cruised on to win 75-55.

Ed Davender opened the scoring with a jumper from the right wing to give Kentucky a 2-0 lead, but 11 seconds later senior Gerry Born answered with a driving jumper to tie the score. Davender provided the audience with an instant replay of his first basket and Winston Bennett scored in the lane for a 6-2 Kentucky advantage, but once again Born responded. He scored on a layup and was fouled. The free-throw went “whoosh” and it was 6-5.

Born then picked up two fouls in the span of six seconds and was obliged to take a seat on the Davidson bench. With Born out, sophomore Jeff Himes took over. He sandwiched a three-point play and a tip-in basket around a jumper by junior Chris Heineman to give the Southern Conference champs their first lead at 12-10. Senior Ken Neibuhr popped from the foul line and sophomore guard Derek Rucker nailed a fast-break jumper to stretch the Davidson lead to 16-11.

But fouls continued to plague Davidson. Himes picked up his second when he fouled James Blackmon on the shot as Blackmon scored to make it 16-13. At the other end, Himes scored again on a driving bank shot to stretch the Davidson lead back to five at 18-13. With 11:45 remaining in the half, Kentucky’s All-American forward Kenny (Sky) Walker finally eluded the mass of Davidson defenders who had been smothering him all game and scored his first basket. He got his third and fourth points just seconds later from the line and the Davidson lead had dwindled to one. Heineman answered with a jump shot to make the score 20-17 with 10:08 to play in the half, but then the clock struck midnight on Davidson’s Cinderella bid.

Walker’s emergence sparked Kentucky and they clamped down hard with their celebrated pressure man-to-man defense. Davidson would not score again for over five and a half minutes as Kentucky ran off 12 straight points to lead 29-20. During this stretch both Born and Himes picked up their third fouls and the Davidson inside game went to the bench with them. Forced to rely on the outside game, Davidson could manage only three more buckets before intermission as Kentucky expanded their lead to 12 at 38-26.

A glance at the rebounding statistics for the first half shows a complete dominance of the offensive glass by Kentucky. They snatched an amazing 11 offensive boards in the period while limiting Davidson to only one. Davidson needed a fast start in the second half.To get back into the game, but Walker showed what makes him one of the premier players in the game as he scored Kentucky's first eight points out of the box. Two baskets from Born and one from Himes kept the margin at 14, but Himes picked up his fourth foul and McConkey got his third and fourth in quick succession, weakening the Davidson front line. Kentucky took advantage and stretched the margin to 20 at 52-32, and the outcome was no longer in doubt. Before it was over, Himes fouled out and Born and junior Ace Tanner both picked up their fourth foul. The frontcourt thus crippled, Davidson could come no closer than 13 for the rest of the game as Kentucky rolled to a 75-55 win.

Davidson's frontcourt foul trouble showed up on the scoresheet as Kentucky controlled the boards throughout the contest. They outrebounded Davidson by a 39-19 margin. Kentucky went to the foul stripe 32 times in the game, converting 21. Davidson, on the other hand, hit seven of only eight free throw attempts for the game. Walker led Kentucky with 20 points and 10 rebounds, and Winston Bennett added 14. Despite limited playing time, Himes and Born each scored 13 to lead Davidson. Himes saw only 13 minutes of action while Born was only in the game for 26 of the 40 minutes. Rucker contributed 10 in spite of an injured back that bothered him throughout the game.

The loss, however, cannot obscure the tremendous accomplishments of this team, which finished with an outstanding 20-11 record. Rucker was the team’s leading scorer for the second straight year, averaging 14.0 points per game. He also led the team with 4.4 assists and 2.2 steals per game. Born was the leading rebounder at 6.7 per game and the second leading scorer with 11.0 points a game. The team statistics reflect the turnaround from last year's 10-20 record, especially in the realm of defense. Davidson committed 73 fewer turnovers than last year while causing their opponents to commit 382 more. The Cats gave up only 63.7 points per game on 45.2 percent shooting by their opponents as opposed to 70 and 48.2 percent last year.

This was Davidson’s first winning season since Terry Holland coached his 1973-74 team to a 19-8 record. It was the first time a Davidson team has won twenty or more games since the 1969-70 team. That team was also the last to win the Southern Conference tournament and to go to the NCAA. Much credit must go to coach Bobby Hussey and to the seniors who make up his first recruiting class. These seniors have suffered through two straight sub-.400 seasons before this year's rise to the top. The loss of six seniors will be sorely felt next year, but prospects are far from bleak. The Cats return four players who started at one time or another this year, and if the team can develop some depth, they could contend for the conference crown again.

Above: Senior Ted Wolfe
Below: Sophomore Jeff Himes
Across: Sophomore Derek Rucker
Robert Nesbit
Robert Nesbit