Friday, January 24, 1986  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

Headlining the news for the week of Jan. 15-22

— Mideast News —

In Aden, South Yemen, rival liberal and radical Marxist factions continue their bloody battle for control in the violent week-long civil war that has left 10,000 dead; the radicals are reacting to what they call South Yemen President Mohammed’s “pro-Western” interests. South Yemen is the Arab world’s only Marxist government and has close ties with the USSR.

In Lebanon, fighting among Christian militias and between Christian and Moslem militias broke out last week raising new fears that Lebanon is headed back to the resumption of a full-scale civil war; the fighting is apparently a result of disagreement over the power-sharing consequences of a Syrian-sponsored peace plan for the volatile country. Moslem factions are accusing Christian President Amin Gemayel of being the major “impasse” to peace efforts and are calling for his resignation.

Meanwhile, meeting with U.S. special envoy Richard Murphy at the Hague, Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres, who is on a 12-day West European tour, said that his country is seriously negotiating with Jordan and the Palestinian people about ways to start Mideast peace talks; Murphy, the Reagan Administration’s top official on the Middle East, is on an unannounced European visit to meet with various Mideast leaders in hopes of restarting Arab-Israeli peace talks.

— Superpower News —

Last week in Geneva marked the beginning of the fourth round of arms talks between the U.S. and U.S.S.R. with a new proposal by Soviet leader Gorbachev being the primary issue of discussion. This new proposal calls for the two countries to eliminate all nuclear weapons by the end of the century; however, Gorbachev said that this disarmament process is predicated on the U.S. abandonment of the research and development of the Strategic Defense Initiative. The Reagan Administration is reported to be carefully considering the proposal. Also at the Geneva talks, the U.S.S.R. called for France and England to freeze their nuclear arsenals while the U.S. and U.S.S.R. destroy their European-based missiles.

Meanwhile, the Foreign Ministers of Japan and the U.S.S.R. met in Japan last week and signed a trade agreement and exchanged invitations for their leaders to visit each other’s countries; dispute over the sovereignty of the “Northern Territories” has kept the two countries from signing a formal peace treaty since World War II. Earlier this week, Soviet dissident Yelena Bonner was released from a Boston hospital after undergoing heart bypass surgery.

— Latin American News —

The president-elect of Honduras said that he is prepared to sign a Contadora peace accord involving the removal of the American military presence if Nicaragua sends home its foreign military advisors. A White House official said Tuesday that President Reagan will ask Congress for $90 million to $100 million in humanitarian and military aid for the rebels (Contras) fighting the leftist government of Nicaragua. The U.S. may also give $40 million in aid originally intended for Panama to the new civilian government of Guatemala. A plane carrying tourists to Mayan ruins in Guatemala crashed and killed all 93 persons aboard; 11 Americans were among the casualties.

— African News —

In Maseru, Lesotho, a small kingdom surrounded by South Africa, a military coup ended the 20-year rule of Prime Minister Chief Leabua Jonathan who has been accused of allowing the harboring of rebels fighting the white minority government of South Africa; the coup reportedly marks the end of confrontations between the two governments of Lesotho and South Africa.

Still on his American tour, South African Bishop Desmond Tutu visited Atlanta on Monday to receive the Martin Luther King Peace Prize; Monday was the first national observance of Martin Luther King Day. In South Africa, the country’s largest employers’organization, the Federated Chamber of Industries, proposed a program for political, economic, and social reform. Somalia reports that a new wave of Ethiopian refugees fleeing government resettlement programs is putting a serious strain on the country’s resources.

Asian news — In the Philippines, two campaign leaders and three aides to Corazon Aquino were killed in what is reported to be the first campaign-related violence; Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos suggested in a campaign speech earlier this week that a victory by Aquino would trigger a military coup if Aquino brought communists into the government; Aquino previously denied such a possibility. If Aquino wins, she says she will put Marcos on trial for human rights violations. Meanwhile, Marcos’s campaign is being thwarted by the re-emergence of an incurable and recurring medical condition. If Marcos should die before the February election, the presidency will pass to the Speaker of the National Assembly who would then have to decide whether to proceed or postpone the election until the ruling party could nominate another candidate. If Marcos should win and then die, the newly elected vice president would serve out the six-year term.

In Laos, the Laotian government rejected a U.S. request for a joint investigation of the possible sightings of U.S. M.I.A.’s. In Peking, to demonstrate the seriousness of the communist government’s new anti-crime drive, authorities executed 18 convicted criminals in front of a huge public rally.

Elsewhere in the World — Breaking the long-held symbol of British “insularity,” Britain and France announced the planned construction of a double railway tunnel under the English Channel which will establish the first “fixed link” between the two countries. In a ceremony at the Hague, Spain and Israel established diplomatic relations.

National news — This week marks the beginning of President Reagan's sixth year in the White House. During the first full examination since his cancer surgery last July, doctors at Bethesda Naval Hospital removed three small benign polyps from President Reagan's intestine; the doctors reported the president to be in excellent health. Speaking at Washington's Fort McNair, Secretary of State Shultz voiced his opinion that the U.S. must use force to strike back at terrorists. Finally, don’t forget to watch the Chicago Bears battle the New England Patriots for the Super Bowl title on Sunday!

Thought for the week: “... however difficult the moment, however frustrating the hour, it will not be long, because truth pressed to the earth will soon rise again...” — Martin Luther King, March 25, 1965.

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental, and spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to help each individual child develop his or her potential should apply. One must have the ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities. College students, teachers, and coaches should apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery, and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing, and tripping are extras in our excellent program. For further information write or call G. William Climer, Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 7, Box 50, Clover, S.C., 29710 (803-831-2121).

UNITED CAROLINA BANK
Main St. Davidson 892-7805
Lake Norman I-77 at Hwy 73 892-7815

Winter Clearance Sale Starts Thursday
Save 25% to 50% On All Winter Clothes For Men and Women
SUITS, COATS, PANTS, SHIRTS, JACKETS
SKIRTS, BLOUSES, SWEATERS AND SHOES
9 a.m. ‘til 5:30 p.m. | John Mack & Son Downtown Mooresville Monday thru Saturday

Victoria M. [surname unclear]
Happy [unclear]
January 25, 1986