Friday, January 31, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN 11

Feminism represents philosophical paradox

Scott Campbell

In his essay “On Racism and Sexism,” Richard Wasserstrom describes racial and sexual stereotypes as a manifestation of an attitude
of discrimination which permeates our society. He maintains that the ideal society should consider sexual and racial differences to be
as inconsequential as differences in eye color. I agree. I mention this article, however, because I believe it is helpful
to “look at the big picture” as Wasserstrom does when trying to deal with the problem of discrimination. Should one’s
attitude toward discrimination depend on who is being discriminated against? Or should one oppose the practice of discrimination regardless of
who is being discriminated against? These questions have particular relevance with regard to the issue of feminism. Should our attitude
toward discrimination against women differ from our attitude toward discrimination against other groups of people? If not, then what is
the justification of the feminist movement? It is my opinion that people are people and that instead of championing the
cause of one particular group of people so as to gain “concessions” from another group of people, we should instead
strive to eliminate the practice of stereotyping which makes such conflicts inevitable. In other words, one should not fight for
equal rights for certain groups of people. Such confrontations often serve to intensify rather than dispel stereotypes. One should rather
fight on the side of all people against the societal tendency to perpetuate harmful stereotypes.

In the last few months, I have read two long essays by Anne Lambert concerning feminism. Both articles disturbed me—not
because I disagree with Anne’s conception of the ideal society, but rather because I disagree with how she feels we
as a society should work to attain this ideal. To “fight and die” so as to obtain equal rights for
women is certainly action worthy of great praise, but I wonder if such action should still be encouraged. It has
been argued that it is sometimes necessary to wage war so as to obtain peace. When conditions in the world
are so bad that one really has no recourse but to fight so as to prevent fighting, then perhaps such
action is morally justifiable. But should we always adopt such a paradoxical philosophy? Should we always fight to prevent fighting?
I do not believe so. An “eye for an eye” solution to problems is difficult to defend from both a
logical and moral standpoint. It seems rather that one should rarely if ever fight to prevent fighting if fighting is
such a terrible thing that it should be avoided at all costs.

Feminism, to me, represents a similar philosophical paradox. Feminism seeks to remove male/female distinctions by making male/female distinctions. To claim
that “We women are no different from you men” is to assert two things: 1. Women are no different from
men, and 2. Women are different from men. To fight for women’s rights is to assume that there are two
groups of very different people, namely men people and women people. If one makes this assumption, then good arguments can
be made (one should refer to Anne’s articles) to support the claim that one should help women people in their
battle to gain equality with men people. But by making this assumption one must necessarily make male/female distinctions. One must
necessarily speak in generalizations. Men are more violent than women. Men watch more pornographic movies than women. Men are more
aggressive than women, etc., etc. Men people are very different from women people—hence, the problem. Certainly none of the preceding
statements are always true with regard to every man. Such statements represent stereotypes. To be able to speak abstractly of
a “woman’s” movement one must make generalizations about men and women. I believe such generalizations are often harmful and usually
dangerously misleading.

If one assumes such male/female distinctions are accurate, then one must conclude that the differences are either biologically or socially
generated. If men are psychologically different from women for biological reasons, then what is the point really in trying to
treat unequal beings equally? Unless one perhaps engages in some creative genetic engineering, one’s efforts to create a society of
equals will necessarily fail. It is my opinion (and probably also Anne’s) that the problem is a social problem. Men
are not really fundamentally different from women in any psychological sense. We all experience emotions like anger, fear, and happiness.
Society creates the real differences through the perpetuation of stereotypes. If the problem is social though, then why advocate feminism?
Why is it necessary to make any male/female distinctions if men and women are fundamentally equal? Why champion the cause
of women as if women are beings quite different from men if the whole point of feminism is to create
a society in which there are no male/female distinctions? Why the battle call for all women to rally around the
feminist flag? If women feel they are being treated unfairly by men, then how is a cry for war going
to make the situation any better? The tension between men and women will probably only increase. One should instead seek
to eliminate the stereotypes which create this tension.

I agree with Anne that stereotyping women as inferior to men is wrong, very wrong. I also agree that all
efforts should be made to prevent such stereotypes, but to fight this societal stereotyping as a feminist is to perpetuate
stereotypes. No matter how successful feminists are in obtaining equality for women, damaging male/female stereotypes will not disappear as long
as there are women claiming that “We women are equal to you men.” Feminism seems to be a kind of
sexist patriotism. It’s “we” against “you.” “I’m a feminist.” Rah. Hooray. “I’m not a feminist.” Boo. Hiss. Instead of saying
that women people should be treated like men people, why not say that no one should be treated unfairly? We
should fight all stereotypes as people, not as feminists or non-feminists. To argue for women’s rights is something like arguing
for a low-fat diet instead of arguing for a well-balanced diet. One doesn’t solve the problem of nutrition simply by
not eating lots of fat, just as one doesn’t solve the problem of discrimination simply by fighting to prevent discrimination
against women. A more comprehensive approach than feminism must be adopted.

My father has a form of multiple sclerosis. I mention this only because as a handicapped man he is unbelievably
more discriminated against than my mother is as a woman. A strong case can be made that handicappedpeople or poor
people or even uneducated people are discriminated against much more than women. Why should everyone not fight all unjust discrimination?
One could reply that feminism does advocate the elimination of all forms of discrimination, but if so, then what is
the difference between feminism and humanism? Why the emphasis on fighting only that discrimination which affects only women? Is the
problem of discrimination against women still such a severe problem that we must continue to fight in order to prevent
fighting? One can certainly no longer stereotype all women as oppressed and all men as oppressors. I do not consider
myself to be an overly oppressive person. Is the situation still so bad that we must perpetuate these male/female stereotypes
in order to eliminate male/female stereotypes? If not, then what is the justification of feminism? Does the plight of women
deserve more notice than the plight of cripples or poor people? It appears as if the practice of discrimination should
be denounced and fought against regardless of who is being discriminated against. Why then be a feminist instead of a
humanist? I personally do not appreciate being casually stereotyped as aggressive and instinctively violent just because I am a man.
Such a stereotype irritates me. But what is to be accomplished by rallying all men together so as to forcefully
prevent the occurrence of this particular stereotype? Nothing. Other stereotypes will replace it. Everyone must work rather to eliminate the
very practice of stereotyping which inevitably invites discrimination. Everyone must be encouraged to view others as individuals and not as
members of some abstract group. Feminism perpetuates group identification. The feminist movement consequently does not attack the real problem in
our society today. It seeks rather to deal only with some symptoms of the disease and not with the disease
itself. My name is Scott Campbell and I am not a feminist. “Color me a humanist” who continues to be
dismayed by feminist battle cries. A society without stereotypes cannot be achieved by continuing to stereotype all women as oppressed
and all men as oppressors. We must now adopt more of a “big picture” approach to the problem of discrimination.
Likewise, one cannot eliminate discrimination against women by stereotyping all those who oppose feminism as naive and ignorant. One should
not conclude (as Anne does) that simply because a person is not a feminist then that person is necessarily guilty
of misconceptions regarding feminism. Feminism is not so logically appealing that one should be considered irrational if one dares to
disagree with the precepts of feminism. I believe that one can eliminate stereotypes only by choosing not to stereotype other
people. A feminist position appears to me to perpetuate as many stereotypes as it seeks to dispel. It also appears
to me to be logically inconsistent. How can one, for example, advocate the elimination of “sexist language” and then call
oneself a “feminist” — which is certainly a sexist term. Why not simply be a humanist who desires to eliminate
all discrimination? One should speak out whenever anyone is discriminated against. Why limit one’s scope of action? Campbell is a
senior philosophy major from Richmond, Va.

Tim Brown

After hearing the news in regard to tobacco a lot of people have themselves a smoke, some on account of
nervousness brought on by the news — while others unabashedly smoke for, why, mere pleasure. These days we find fresh
tobacco stories almost everywhere. In Chicago a $5 million verdict is decided in favor of Viceroy cigarettes against a broadcaster
who libeled the company by claiming it was seducing youngsters by associating cigarettes with drugs, booze, and cheapening virginity. Rugged
Texans find themselves a new code: From here on out restaurants seating more than fifty people have to have separate
sections for those who smoke. Two lawsuits drag on with family survivors of dead smokers charging tobacco factories in North
Carolina that it was their carcinogenic products that killed their loved ones. And, most recently, the American Medical Association calls
for a complete ban on all media advertising of tobacco products. This includes newspapers, magazines, billboards, balloons, street corner giveaways,
sponsoring athletic events, and hell, even skywriting. Other items agreed upon by the delegates include banishment of vending machines and
— sure enough — a minimum age of 21 for purchasing tobacco products, causing some to ponder. With no drink
or smokes, what is a growing boy or girl to do? So far tobacco corporations and publishing associations have shown
themselves to be the strongest opponents of the AMA’s proposed ban. Concerning this battle and the meaning of it, there
is much that could be said. But, for now, a couple of points. Tobacco companies complain that banning the advertisement
of tobacco products is on the same order as denying their constitutional right to free speech, and if something is
legal to buy and sell, it cannot be illegal to advertise. All fine points, I agree. Never mind that in
1971 this right was denied them with respect to advertising cigarettes on television and radio. Among publishing associations one finds
the same logic and close to the same acrimony. And no wonder, seeing as how U.S. cigarette advertisers dropped close
to $2 billion last year on advertising, hearing as how cigarette advertising produced $234 million in revenue, one percent of
total advertising revenue, for this nation’s 1700 daily newspapers. Such goodly amounts could surely work up Galbraith into admonishing us.
Where to from here? (1) Well, Congress could ban all advertising of tobacco products and, through the Food and Drug
Administration, the sale of tobacco products. Yet if these are its true intentions, why is it now subsidizing the darn
stuff. (2) Perhaps Congress could slap a tax on tobacco products to help fund public health notices, credited for the
decline of white male smokers from 52 percent to 30 percent of the population, and the 3 percent decline among
white women. Black men and women, I am sorry to find, continue to smoke up a storm. Perhaps Congress could
levy a tax on cigarettes to provide health funds which would provide for future medical benefits, which smokers will receive
from the government. (3) Prohibition. Prohibition isn’t working with marijuana, heroin, or cocaine. And did not work with alcohol, either.
So warn and warn and warn the smokers, remind them to respect the rights of others and maybe even tax
them a little, but otherwise, leave them alone.

Brown is a sophomore from Mint Hill, N.C. and is opinions editor of The Davidsonian.
