Friday, September 12, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Scoring drought, schedule keep soccer team winless

By PERRY MATHEWES

The Davidson soccer team has already gotten off to an early, but disappointing, start. A 1-0 loss to Wake Forest yesterday dropped their record to 0-3-1. Previous losses came at Evansville, the second-ranked team in the nation, 4-0, and Cincinnati, 2-1. The lone tie, 1-1, came at Xavier.

Yesterday’s home opener started out slowly as the teams found their legs. The first serious threat to either goal did not come until the sixth minute when Wake tested the Davidson defense with a penetrating shot.

Neither team seemed to dominate the game as most of the action stayed in midfield. Davidson played well with a patient passing game but was susceptible to quick counterattacks from Wake.

At the 20-minute mark, sophomore midfielder Tracy Hankins tested the Wake goalie with a header from close range.

Unfortunately, Wake Forest opened the scoring just five minutes later. A high cross on a Wake corner kick eluded junior goalkeeper Josh Budde but found a Wake attacker at the far post. He drilled the ball through several Davidson defenders to find the back of the net.

The second half opened uneventfully, with Davidson showing a patient offense and a solid defense. However, Wake Forest seemed to gain momentum with several penetrating runs.

In the last half hour of play, the Davidson attack began to apply pressure. Several corner kicks presented some excellent opportunities, but they failed to equalize.

Davidson played well, yet lacked the finishing skills to produce goals. A good defense combined with aggressive play provided an enjoyable game for the spectators and a tough one for Wake Forest, who is ranked number eight in the South.

Davidson has a good aggressive team, but the tough schedule may give deceiving results. Playing in Division I, the team faces 15 teams who are ranked in their respective regions.

“Breaks will make a difference,” according to coach Charlie Slagle. “This is a good team that could end up with a .500 record.”

In spite of the poor start, he is confident that the team will do well.

Depth and injuries will be key factors to the team's success during the season. Only 18 players arrived at the preseason camp and there are only 22 players on the squad now. Any injuries during the course of the season could weaken the team considerably.

Experience is also a factor in the team’s performance. With the loss of two-time All-Conference senior goalie Jim Kelly for the season due to a leg injury, the team not only loses an excellent goalie but also a valuable team leader. As a result, Slagle is looking for leadership from several other players, especially seniors Chris Jones, Brian Shockley, and Steve Stith.

Also look for strong performances this season from freshman Rob Vest, sophomore Tracy Hankins, and juniors Steve Ott and Michael Spear.

Slagle is pleased with the team’s progress and looks for better results as the team begins to gel. He is also very appreciative of the fan support that the team has received. “Davidson fans are the best fans to have.”

Davidson next plays in the Davidson-UCB Tournament tomorrow and Sunday. Game time tomorrow is 4:45 p.m. The squad then travels to Duke on Wednesday, Sept. 17.

Soccer

Aug. 31 at Evansville
Sept. 3 at Xavier
Sept. 6 at Cincinnati
Sept. 11 Wake Forest
Sept. 13-14 Davidson-UCB Tournament
Sept. 17 at Duke
Sept. 20 William and Mary
Sept. 24 at Appalachian State
Sept. 28 at V.M.I.
Oct. 4 at Georgia State
Oct. 6 Erskine
Oct. 8 Furman
Oct. 15 at North Carolina State
Oct. 18 Marshall
Oct. 22 South Carolina
Oct. 25 UT-Chattanooga
Nov. 1 at UNCC
Nov. 5 at The Citadel
Nov. 8 Richmond
Nov. 9 Akron

Field Hockey

Sept. 17 at Wake Forest
Sept. 19 Salem College
Sept. 20 Eastern Kentucky
Sept. 22 Pfeiffer College
Sept. 24 at High Point College
Sept. 27 at Catawba College
Sept. 30 at Appalachian State
Oct. 2 High Point College
Oct. 4 University of South
Oct. 6 at Pfeiffer
Oct. 9 at Salem College
Oct. 15 Catawba College
Oct. 18 Emory Club
Oct. 23 Wake Forest
Oct. 31 Deep South Tournament
Nov. 1-2 Deep South Tournament at Salisbury, NC

Cross Country

Sept. 20 Davidson Open
Sept. 27 at Winthrop Invitational
Oct. 4 at UNCC Invitational
Oct. 11 European Championships
Oct. 16 North Carolina Collegiate Championships at Raleigh, NC
Oct. 25 Davidson Invitational
Nov. 1 Southern Conference Championships at Chattanooga, TN
Nov. 15 NCAA Region III Championships at Greenville, SC
Nov. 24 NCAA National Championships at Tucson, AR

Sports Information