By PERRY MATHEWES

Last Saturday, the Davidson soccer team started the week with a 6-1 pounding of Winthrop in the first round of the Davidson-UCB Tournament. They fell in the finals to Belmont Abbey, 1-0. Wednesday, they lost at Duke, 6-0. Davidson’s record on the season dropped to 1-5-1.

The Winthrop game started tentatively as the teams probed each other’s defenses. Winthrop opened the scoring in the sixth minute when an Eagle fullback scored on a direct free kick at the edge of the penalty box. Davidson equalized in the 19th minute as junior Michael Spear easily converted a penalty kick. With the score tied at 1-1, the team settled down and started to control the game. Sophomore midfielder Tracy Hankins scored the game-winning goal in the 26th minute of the first half. A corner kick from senior fullback Steve Stith found Hankins in front of the goal, who sent the Winthrop goalie in search of the ball at the back of the net.

Junior midfielder Steve Omli opened the scoring in the second half with the goal of the game. At 22:00, Omli found himself with the ball at the center line. Doing a Maradona impersonation, he dribbled the ball through the Winthrop defense to beat the goalie at close range. Hankins scored his second goal just eight minutes later. He sent the ball home after it rebounded off of the goalie on junior striker Craig Mattison’s shot. Three minutes later, Mattison served up a high, long cross that found sophomore striker Mike Friedlander, who scored the fifth Davidson goal with a header. Friedlander was also involved with the sixth goal at the 39th minute of the second half. He pushed the ball past a diving goalie at the edge of the penalty box and freshman midfielder Rocky Fresh scored the open net goal.

Davidson totally dominated the play throughout the game. The ball rarely left the Winthrop end of the field in the second half. “We played a good game and really spread things out,” Friedlander said. The sharp, crisp passing and patiently developed play was finally complemented with a quality finishing game.

Events did not pass quite as well in Sunday’s 1-0 loss to Belmont Abbey. The only goal came in the 27th minute of the game as a Crusader midfielder scored after a long pass. Again, Davidson dominated the game but had poor luck in front of the goal. The Abbey goalkeeper played an excellent game, stopping several dangerous shots. He also had some help from his goalposts and a fullback as they stopped the shots that got past him. With less than two minutes to play, Davidson had the equalizing goal disallowed on a controversial call. A long throw-in squirted through a group of players to the left of the goalmouth to find Friedlander in the center. “I couldn't kick the ball or it would go straight to the goalie,” Friedlander said, “so I used my knee to push it in and the goalie dove at me.” The ball went in the goal but the linesman’s flag went up and the referee called the goal back. The ruling: someone kicked the goalie. No goal. Davidson lost.

Wednesday, the team traveled to Durham to take on Duke, who is ranked ninth in the nation. The Blue Devils lived up to their reputation as they dominated the Wildcats, 6-0. Davidson could never find their rhythm and looked flat on the field compared to the fast, talented Duke squad.

The team next hosts William and Mary tomorrow at 2 p.m. They then open conference play against Appalachian State on Sept. 24. The players are hoping to do better. “I’m sure we’ll pick it up this weekend,” Hankins said. “We can win the next three games if we start with a win on Saturday.”

The Davidsonian
Friday, September 19, 1986

You make the call; junior Mike Friedlander in front of the net

Field hockey opens season on disappointing note
By PAM HARMANN

The Davidson field hockey team’s 6-0 loss to Wake Forest was an example of first game nervousness. The young, inexperienced squad was intimidated by a much improved Wake Forest team, whose excellent stick work makes them a much stronger team than in previous years. Davidson played very defensively and lacked aggressiveness. Their first game jitters made them timid and hesitant to play the ball. Wake Forest’s first goal was a penalty stroke about five minutesinto the first half. This added to the intimidation and Wake would score three more goals in the first half. Davidson had no offensive pressure and obvious difficulty in getting the ball over the 50-yard line. The second half was a definite improvement over the first, with Wake scoring only two goals. Freshman forward Christy Sloan led the front line. Senior sweeper Heather McKee led the defense throughout the game and sparked the team to play more aggressively. She was helped by junior halfback Mandy Barrett. Coach Betsy Pryor feels the squad needs a lot of work on fundamentals. “We must play our game and not sit back and see what the other team does.” It must be noted that Davidson had only one substitute: the alternate goalie. Injuries have plagued the team, temporarily removing senior halfback Polly Northen and sophomore forward Heather Fitzpatrick. There were also three players who had made the traveling squad but were ineligible in Wednesday’s game due to NCAA paperwork. They are sophomores Kris Kost, Tyler Smith, and Kim White. They should be eligible by this weekend. In regard to the game, Heather McKee said, “The first game is not a good indication of the potential this team has. The game against Salem should be a much better contest.” Looking ahead, Pryor said, “I hope to see a turnaround because they shouldn’t be as nervous. They were very intimidated by Wake. We should have our confidence back by the games this weekend.” Salem comes to Davidson Friday for a 4 p.m. game. On Saturday Davidson meets Eastern Kentucky University here at 11 a.m. This should be the toughest game of the season. Coach Pryor hopes Davidson will rise to the occasion.

Volleyball debuts with two matches at home
By SUSAN WILKINS

The women’s volleyball team, although unsuccessful in its two first varsity matches, showed potential in its losses to Elon and Lenoir-Rhyne Wednesday night. Davidson started off the night playing a best of three series against Elon. In the first game of the night, the Lady Cats quickly fell behind 0-10 before they broke the Fighting Christians’ strong serves. Senior Bonnie Bolton served to cut Elon’s lead to nine points and although Davidson fought hard, Elon regained their service through several Wildcat errors. Elon proceeded to roll over the Lady Cats and win 15-1.

In their second game against Elon, Davidson regrouped and came out fighting. Bolton and sophomore Molly Cochran served for the first six points of the game. The Wildcats led 6-0 when Elon broke the Cats’ service. Several energetic volleys developed, with sophomore Maria Douglas and freshman Sarah Johnson showing lots of enthusiasm. Finally, Elon’s experience and height advantage came to their aid and they went on to win the game 15-6.

In their final match of the night, the Lady Cats faced Lenoir-Rhyne. Lenoir-Rhyne, a tall, strong, and aggressive team, looked to be an easy winner. But the Wildcats refused to be easy losers. Davidson served first and won the first point of the game. The two teams then exchanged serves without scoring. Unfortunately, the Cats lost their serve on the very next point. Lenoir-Rhyne took off on a scoring streak and led 6-1 when Douglas repelled a spike to help Davidson regain service. Cochran served for the Cats and they scored on their next two tries to cut the lead to 3-6. Several fruitless exchanges occurred before the Wildcats got to serve again. Freshman Tami Beckham, with her strong serve, reeled off two more points for the Cats, bringing the score to Davidson 5, Lenoir-Rhyne 8. Lenoir-Rhyne, after regaining their service, began to dominate and won the game 15-5.

The next game started badly for the Lady Cats. They let Lenoir-Rhyne score seven unanswered points before jumping into the game. Through careful assessment of Lenoir-Rhyne’s offense, the Cats gradually gained points and cut the lead to 9-5. The two teams then proceeded to trade points until the score reached 13-8. With Lenoir-Rhyne two points from victory, the Wildcats showed that they have heart as well as talent. They held off three attempts by the Bears and scored once to bring the score to 14-9. Finally, Lenoir-Rhyne scored to win the game. Davidson’s women’s volleyball team is young and has not played as a team for very long, but it has lots of enthusiasm and even in its losses improved. In the future, women’s volleyball should be very exciting. The next home game is Sept. 30.

Mike Hood