Beyond Davidson
Friday, September 19, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

— Paris bombed four times, Dow drops 110 points —

By DAVID WILLIAMS

Headlining events for the week Sept. 12-18:

Around the World —
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres engaged in a 24-hour summit in Alexandria and agreed to
form a committee to arrange an international conference on Middle East peace. Peres visited President Reagan and played down the
importance of such a conference, stressing the need for “direct negotiations” between Middle East nations.

Four men ambushed and seized an accountant Friday at the American University in Beirut. It was the second kidnapping in
one week of an American citizen in Lebanon. A bomb exploded Friday in a crowded Paris cafeteria, injuring 40 persons.
On Sunday, an underground explosion on the Champs Elysees in Paris killed a police officer and wounded two others. Minutes
later, French Premier Jacques Chirac announced he will take “draconian measures” to combat a current wave of terrorism in France.
On Monday, a bomb blast at the Paris police headquarters killed one person and injured 51. On Wednesday, two men
bombed a crowded Paris clothing store, killing five persons and injuring 52.

An explosive device planted in a trash can in the Seoul airport killed five South Koreans and injured 19 others.
South Korea accused North Korea of staging the attack.

President Reagan warned that the restricted status of American journalist Nicholas Daniloff, whom the Soviets accuse of espionage, could impede
progress in future arms control talks. The Soviets released Daniloff to the U.S. embassy in Moscow, and the United States
turned over Soviet U.N. employee Gennadi Zakharov to the Soviet ambassador in New York, but the transfer did not alter
their status as prisoners. In a related move, the Reagan administration announced it was expelling 25 Soviet attaches of the
U.N. in New York who are suspected of espionage.

Philippines President Corazon Aquino visited President Reagan for the first time since taking office last February. Reagan pledged $160 million
in new economic and military aid to the Philippines.

In Baghdad, Iraqis held a mass funeral procession for 24 victims of an Iranian missile attack. Iraq reported Tuesday that
its fighter-bombers struck an Iranian oil terminal in the northern end of the Persian Gulf, damaging Iranian anti-aircraft defenses.

The South African government closed 13 more black schools in Soweto and Johannesburg, saying boycotts had caused “virtual zero attendance.”
A disastrous fire broke out at a South African gold mine, leaving a record toll of at least 177 men
dead. The U.S. House voted 308-77 to approve a package of economic sanctions on South Africa, including a ban on
new U.S. investment and bank loans. Foreign Ministers of 12 European nations also agreed to impose limited sanctions on South
Africa, including a ban on imports of iron, steel, and gold coins.

In other events —
The United Nations opened a three-month General Assembly session Wednesday and elected the Foreign Minister of Bangladesh, Humayun Rasheed Choudhury,
as its president.

An unarmed, submarine-launched Soviet missile misfired during a test and landed in northeastern China. Western creditor nations voted to give
Mexico more time to repay its $1.8 billion debt. Austria’s government collapsed Monday after the junior party in its coalition,
the Freedom Party, elected the far-right nationalist Joerg Haider as its leader.

Across the Nation —
The Senate confirmed Supreme Court Justice William Rehnquist as the 16th chief justice of the United States. Rehnquist received more
negative votes than any other justice who has been confirmed to the court. The Senate also unanimously endorsed President Reagan’s
nomination of Antonin Scalia to fill Rehnquist's vacated seat.

The Rev. Pat Robertson announced he will be a contender in the 1988 Presidential election if he gets three million
people to sign petitions urging him to run. Former Governor of Delaware Pierre S. duPont also announced his candidacy for
the Republican nomination.

In a nationally televised address, President and Nancy Reagan called Sunday for a national crusade to create an “outspoken intolerance
of drug use.” On Monday, President Reagan ordered mandatory drug tests for hundreds of thousands of federal workers and called
for the death penalty in some drug-related murder cases. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said he has given commanders new authority
to prevent service personnel from participating in “hate groups” such as the Ku Klux Klan.

In Business News —
The Commerce Department reported that the country’s current account trade deficit hit a record $34.7 billion during the April-June quarter.
The Labor Department reported that wholesale prices rose three-tenths of a percent in August. The Federal Reserve reported that domestic
industrial output rose one-tenth of a percent in August. People Express agreed to a merger with Texas Air for $125
million in securities. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closedat 1769.40 points Wednesday; down 110.10 points from a week ago. The
Dow index suffered a record 86.61 point drop Friday. Gold prices closed at $413.50 an ounce, up from $404.70 a
week ago, while silver closed at $5.756, up from $5.595 a week ago. The dollar fell against most currencies during
the week.

Watson fellows relive year of foreign freedom
By AARON LEVINE

Imagine being given money to do “your own thing” — a project of your own for a whole year. Earlier
this week, two Davidson alumnae, Beth Maczka and Ginna McGee — both of the class of '85, came back to
talk about their experience doing just this. Watson fellowships were the vehicles enabling them to take a year “off” after
graduation to pursue serious projects of interest at an international level. Maczka and McGee gave a talk and slide presentation
in the 900 Room last Monday at 7:30 p.m., under the auspices of the Dean Rusk program.

Beth Maczka used her Watson to pursue an idea which has held her interest since a trip to India in
the summer after her junior year, where she spent the summer with the Gandhi Peace Foundation in India studying the
role of women in Indian society. During her year in India, Maczka studied three societies of women: a communal Hindu
ashram dedicated to spiritual development, an atheist group dedicated to humanist teaching of village workers and helping them find work,
and a Catholic convent in southern India. She stayed with these groups for a while hoping to find in at
least one of them positive development for Indian women. Unfortunately, she did not. The ashram spent its days in manual
labor and praying. The group did not really go out into the world and act, preferring a contemplative life. Perhaps
the ashram is a good idea but without action what is the use of pious words? A few of the
younger ashram members left for precisely this reason.

The atheist group failed in that by training women for self-sufficiency through instruction in weaving and the like, they merely
added to the burdens of the women. Women in India already do 80 percent of the rural and domestic work.
The approach of weaving for self-sufficiency worked for the group’s spiritual father Mahatma Gandhi in his British textiles. Maczka felt
this was an outdated approach; it might have worked then, but not now. Women must be trained in meaningful work.
The only example of positive development Maczka found for Indian women was a Catholic-run health program. The program had the
philosophy that women can care for their children; it is their instinct. This program taught women the basics of child-caring,
nutrition, etc. Eighty percent of government money for health goes to hospitals, yet only 5% of the Indian population goes
to hospitals. The Catholics reasoned that progress is quicker when it is at the village level, where it can be
grasped. This program reaches self-sufficiency needs at little expense: aid is based on local resources and needs. Maczka was optimistic
that the lot of the Indian women will improve.

Ginna McGee had a different idea for her Watson: religious pilgrimages in Mexico, Guatemala, and Spain. She wanted to figure
out what motivated these people to make pilgrimages. The idea came to her on a hiking trip in Ireland in
the summer after her junior year when she fell in with a Catholic pilgrimage which entailed going up a mountain
and performing rituals before sacred stones. In Mexico, she realized her ideas on pilgrimage were wrong. She thought the pilgrimage
would be orderly, her questions readily answered, and photos easily taken. Mexican pilgrimages were chaotic; the participants could not comprehend
her questions — how can a participant tell why he/she is doing something when that something is as automatic as
eating. The Mexicans were also touchy about their photos being taken (especially the Indians). Later, before going to Spain, she
got a letter from Maczka inviting Ginna to join her in India, and both of them finished their Watsons together.

At the end of the talk, Ginna McGee gave a quote from the author Anne Dillard: “The point of going
somewhere is not to see the most spectacular thing, but just to see what is there... we are on the
planet once and might as well get a feel for the place...” After the talk, a short question and answer
session was held. The participants explained that many do something else than that which was originally planned, such as McGee
did.

Delivering to Davidson College
Pizza * Sandwiches * Drinks
Mon. - Thurs. 11:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.
Fri. - Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.
Sunday 4:30 p.m. - 10:00 p.m.
