News

Sweeney Todd on stage in November

The theater department presents Sweeney Todd, the Barber — An Olde Fashioned Melodrama, a comic thriller about a 19th-century barber who slits his customers’ throats, as its fall production Nov. 6-8. The play will be performed in Hodson Hall at 7:30 p.m. Nov. 6, and at 8 p.m. Nov. 7-8. Ticket prices are $5 general admission and $3 for students and senior citizens.

Sweeney Todd the Barber is an account of the life and misanthropy of Sweeney Todd, a Victorian London urban legend with a blood lust. This melodramatic adaptation is by George Dibdin Pitt. The cast of “Sweeney Todd” consists of Mac Hardcastle as the twisted barber himself, Lance Luckey, Margarita Lassaletta, Ginger Burke, Jonathan Darsey, Eric McClarty, Catherine Norton, Cameron Dougan, Randy Ingram, Ramona Oliver, Mark Wright, Noel Brewster, Jim Dillon, Brian Kosanovich, Dan Michaelis, Sarah Powell, Callie Hammond, and Donna Peters in supporting roles. Branson Prosser and Tim Jacobs also appear as the juggling Broccoli Brothers. Davidson senior Wayne Magnider serves as assistant director.

Spring term in Spain

Applications are available for the Davidson spring term in Spain program from Lois Kemp, Spanish professor currently on leave, and are due by the end of the term. The program takes place in Madrid, but students will visit Granada, Valencia, Cuenca, Sevilla, Cordoba, Avila, and Salamanca during the term. Students will live and take meals with a Spanish family while there and will attend class three mornings per week.

Participants will receive credit for Spanish 250: Conversation and Composition, Spanish 251: Contemporary Culture, and Spanish 252: Contemporary Theater and Film. Students may take an independent study instead of one of the three courses scheduled. The cost of the program is the same as the regular cost of staying in Davidson for a term with an additional $375 for program-related expenditures, $375 for round-trip airfare to Madrid, $200 minimum for personal expenses, and whatever cost to get to New York where the flight to Madrid will depart.

Applications are available now and are due by Nov. 17. If all spaces are not filled, additional applications will be taken until Dec. 19. A regular application, five recommendations, authorization for release of medical records, and a $100 deposit are necessary to apply. See Dr. Kemp in Chambers 202 if interested.

Material contributed by Jim Dillon

CROP walk raises $2,000

The annual Davidson CROP walk took place Sunday, Oct. 11 beginning at the Town Green and went on for 10 kilometers around the town. Approximately 50-75 people participated, and they raised approximately $2,000, according to Charlie Summers, college chaplain. The money will go to the Church World Service who will administer the funds to a local charity and to a worldwide hunger project.

Material contributed by Jim Dillon

Friday, October 24, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Professor discusses experiences teaching in China

By DAVID BEARCE

Dr. Melford Wilson, a professor at Winthrop College, was the guest speaker at this week’s Open Luncheon. Held in the 900 Room yesterday, his talk, entitled “An American Professor in Shanghai,” was based on his experience in China teaching Chinese students about international relations. Wilson's talk dealt with the changes currently taking place in China. Wilson stated that “every aspect of the society” is changing.the villages to the universities. He stressed that these “changes have losers as well as winners.” Among the biggest losers, according to Wilson, are the college professors and students. Both groups are on a fixed income and are ineligible to receive bonuses because they don't produce a marketable product. Conversely, some of the biggest winners are the workers in industry because they receive “vacations and bonuses.” Wilson added that often “the unions give bonuses once a month and they provide other wonderful things.” Another group of winners are the people who live near the cities. Wilson described a process where the land is divided and the people contract with a commune to work this land. The commune receives a certain percentage and the workers keep the rest. Wilson stated that these people “can make quite a lot” enabling them to afford luxuries like “a new color TV.” Perhaps the biggest group of losers are the people who live in the “way back areas,” according to Wilson. These people are unable to grow anything “except potatoes and rice.” Wilson stated that these people “see success stories on TV” and they know they are falling behind the rest of China. They are “still dressed in little blue uniforms” and they are becoming “very depressed.” But Wilson praised the changes being made in China when he stated that “on the whole things are much better off.”

Another major point in Wilson's talk focused on Chinese relations with the rest of the world. Wilson felt that China has “really opened up to the outside world.” He explained that 13 years ago China officially recognized only Albania and North Korea. But now they have official relations with 134 other countries. Tourism to China has expanded because it is “probably the only safe place to go anymore,” stated Wilson. The Chinese are very pleased to welcome additional tourists because they are a “tremendous source of hard currency.” China is trying hard to understand other countries but Wilson asserted that they have “no concept of the rest of the world.” The Chinese students are only interested in studying Japanese, Russian, and English and as a result, they know very little about other places of the world like Central America.

Finally, Wilson addressed the issue of Sino/Soviet rapprochement. He stated that “China has never really turned toward the U.S.” He felt that Sino/Soviet relations were a way to protect the Chinese against the Soviet Union. The Chinese are not secure about the Russians and feel they “aren't very cultured.” But the Chinese need certain things like “technicians and spare parts” that only the Soviet Union can provide. Nevertheless, Wilson stated that the “Chinese don't just love the Americans.” The Chinese will be cordial to the U.S., but the “Chinese are looking out for China.” He added that “we should not take Chinese actions at face value because the Chinese are playing psychological games.”

Winthrop College professor Melford Wilson speaking on his teaching experiences in China.