8 Friday, January 24, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Appalachian State deals Cats first conference loss

By DARRYL BEGO

Appalachian State handed Davidson its first conference defeat in four tries by a score of 69-65, but they had a
little extra help in the process. There were several disputed calls that mostly put Davidson on the short end of
the stick.

Appalachian came out strong, controlling the opening tip, and taking an early 8-0 lead. But Davidson came back and took
a 10-9 lead with two buckets apiece from senior Ken Neibuhr and sophomore Derek Rucker, and one from junior Ace
Tanner. That would be the only lead Davidson would enjoy for the remainder of the game as Appalachian began to
pull away, reaching leads of as much as eight in the first half, largely because of the shooting of Lynwood
Robinson and Darryl Person who had 10 and 11 points in the opening period.

The first half was basically even as far as most of the statistics show except that Appalachian State shot a
sizzling 60 percent from the field, while Davidson shot a modest 47.9 percent. Davidson did well to stay within six
points of the hot Mountaineers. With the roaring of the Davidson fans behind the Cats, it seemed that Appalachian could
hold the lead only so long.

In the beginning of the second half, Davidson’s first possession resulted in a turnover. Immediately the Mountaineers took advantage of
this mistake. They increased their six-point halftime lead to a ten-point advantage on a bucket by Ron Fiorini and two
freethrows by Robinson. This made the score 43-33. That lead increased to 13 points with 13:46 left, and the Cats
were forced to call time out and re-group. With the score being 50-37, the Cats knew they had their work
cut out for them. The Mountaineers kept pouring in the buckets and remained ahead by 13 points (54-41) with 10:46
left.

At this point, Davidson seemed unable to make a good run at the Mountaineers and began searching for relief. With
10 minutes left, senior Pepper Bego offered the Cats some much-needed relief. It was a Bego layup and two freethrows
that brought the Cats within eight points (57-49). Then a Born eight-footer and a Neibuhr three-footer made it 59-53 with
6:02 remaining. Moments later, a Bego one-hander from the left and another from the right, along with a Rucker bomb,
narrowed the score to 63-59 with 1:57 remaining. This time, it was the Mountaineers motioning for time out.

After the timeout, Davidson came out with the momentum still with them, as Born glided across the lane for a
bucket and drew a foul in the process. Born converted the freethrow, and the Cats were down only 63-62 with
1:16 still remaining. From here, it was who could make their freethrows and who couldn’t. Davidson, who had made 92.8
percent of their freethrows in the first half and 85.2 percent for the game, couldn’t make the big ones down
the stretch and lost 69-65. Davidson was led by Rucker’s 16 points, Bego’s 14 points, Neibuhr’s 12, and Born’s 11
points and nine rebounds.

Lady Cats fall to Converse

By EDWIN PAGE

The Davidson women’s basketball team played at Johnston Gym for only the second time this season as they dropped a
70-65 decision to the Converse All-Stars (no really, that is their nickname). It was the second Davidson loss to Converse
this season, the first coming at Converse by an 82-68 tally.

The first half was a back and forth affair as the two teams both played solid defense. The shooting percentages
reflected the nature of the game. Davidson shot 38 percent while Converse could only put in 30 percent of their
attempts. Nevertheless, the All-Stars took a 30-26 advantage into the locker room.

Throughout the game, the fighting High-Tops packed their zone in tight to try to force the Cats to score from
the outside. Junior Jen Artman obliged as she pumped in 24 points, mostly from long range. Despite the tight zone,
Converse could not stop Davidson’s leading scorer, freshman Lavetta Dawkins, who found enough room inside to score a game-high 26
points and yank down 12 rebounds. Junior Heather McKee also turned in a strong effort on the boards, chipping in
10 rebounds.

Converse, however, countered Artman and Dawkins’ heroics with a very balanced attack. They used all 10 players and placed four
of them in double figures. The Cats fought hard and kept the score close throughout, but they failed to help
themselves from the line in the second half. Davidson shot a poor 56 percent from the charity stripe in the
second half, helping Converse maintain a more comfortable margin en route to their win.

Despite the loss, the Cats showed off a much-improved brand of basketball. They still own a winning record at 5-4
which they will try to improve on as they try to avenge an early season loss to Ferrum. The game
will be at home at 2 p.m. Saturday, and on Monday the Cats will stay at home as they take
on Furman in Johnston Gym at 4 p.m.Sophomore Todd Scott also played very well, contributing eight points in 16 minutes
of playing time.

Who's on first?
By ANDY BARRON

This Sunday, as all sports fanatics know, is Super Sunday! At five o’clock Sunday afternoon, the Chicago Bears and the
New England Patriots will do battle on the artificial surface of the Superdome to determine who will win Super Bowl
XX. I think the whole thing’s gonna be just super.

As the Super Bowl is one of the world’s great sporting events, or at least one of America’s great sporting
events, it seems appropriate that The Davidsonian would print a preview of the game. However, this preview will not delve
into the murky world of X’s and O’s and the crucial objectives that each team must achieve if they hope
to win. Instead, this preview is aimed at revealing some of the less known “facts” surrounding the game.

Anyone who has been hiding under a rock for the last month, the Chicago Bears have had quite a season.
Not only have they played well, but they have dominated every form of mass media from this publication to MTV.
For all their macho, dirt-and-blood, tough guy imagery, the Bears have as much pretty-boy glamor as any team in recent
NFL history.

New England fits the definition for underdog like a glove. Look up “underdog” in the dictionary and you’ll find the
Patriots team picture. How can you root against a team like the Patriots? All true-blooded Americans should feel an obligation
to pull for this big of an underdog.

How big of an underdog are the Patriots? If you are a gambler, the spread favors the Bears by about
10. In addition, the Patriots are the first team ever to get to the Super Bowl from the wildcard playoff
game, much less win the Big Game.

Enough about the teams, let’s talk about the people involved. First, the coaches. Chicago coach Mike Ditka is one of
these old-time tough guys turned blow-dried, ulcer-plagued NFL coach. He isn’t Mr. Congeniality by any standard. He argues over plays
with his quarterback, fights with his defensive coordinator (mastermind Buddy Ryan), and was almost fired at the end of last
year for punching out a locker after a loss.

Patriots coach Raymond Berry played in the NFL about the same time Ditka did, but the similarities end there. First
of all, Berry was a better player. He ranks as the third on the all-time list for receptions and is
a member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame. A deeply religious man, Berry has a lot more trouble getting
upset than Ditka has communicating with Ryan. Berry never yells at his players, who love him for Berry’s philosophy of
easy workouts if for no other reason. If you hate hotheads, you have to root for the Patriots.

Each team has a player of tremendous reputation finally getting to play in a Super Bowl after spending a long
career with a loser. Walter Payton, the NFL’s all-time leading rusher, spent a decade of losing with the Bears before
the last two seasons. Fortunately, the media has covered Payton’s first trip to the Super Bowl to such a voluminous
extent that I need not go any further than mention Payton. However, you may not have heard that New England’s
John Hannah, a fixture at the Pro Bowl for about a decade and considered by many to be the greatest
offensive lineman of all-time, will play in his first Super Bowl. Though Hannah doesn’t grab as much print as Payton,
their positions in football history are remarkably similar and it is appropriate that they meet each other in the Super
Bowl.

For purists of pro football, this Super Bowl is a dream come true. Both teams rely on strong defenses and
running games to win rather than the pass-happy air assaults of the recent past. Unfortunately, this game will be played
in an air-conditioned, artificial turf carpeted dome instead of a rain-soaked, wind-swept, grass field near the Great Lakes. Maybe the
commissioner will rule a new location is in order and move the game to Green Bay. Then again, maybe Jim
McMahon won’t be wearing a headband.

Speaking of McMahon, as a follow-up to last week’s column, I must report that McMahon received a gift from talk-show
host David Letterman last week: a headband emblazoned with a “Late Night with David Letterman” logo. Knowing McMahon, he just
might wear it for the game.

Enough chatter, here’s my prediction. Super Bowls are never close and this game has the makings of a real blowout.
It would be easy to say the Bears will win, everyone without a New England accent says that. Yet the
Patriots seem more relaxed and have plenty of heart to meet Chicago’s tough challenge. If the Patriots can move the
ball on the ground, even modestly, they will make this an exciting game. If not, and I fear they will
follow the example of the run-oriented Rams to defeat, the Bears will win easily. My head says Bears by 14,
but my heart says Patriots. Let the pre-game begin!

Robert Nesbit
