Liner Notes By JEFFERY BROWN

Milton Nascimento
Encontros E Despedidas (Meetings and Farewell)
Polydor Records

Milton Nascimento is virtually unknown to most Americans, enjoying only a modest following in this country. In his native Brazil, however, his stature as a composer and singer is enormous. His popularity there is comparable to, if not greater than, that enjoyed by Stevie Wonder in America. His rare international tours always spark excitement among his enduring fans.

In 1975, Nascimento joined forces with saxophonist Wayne Shorter to produce the now-classic Native Dancer. Shortly thereafter, he released two solo albums aimed at domestic audiences, Milton and Journey to Dawn. These efforts brought Nascimento closer to the American public eye, but the artist unfortunately resorted to singing some songs in English on Milton and Journey. His English performances aren't bad (he seems incapable of singing poorly), they simply lack the fluency and sensuality of his efforts in Portuguese.

His latest release, Encontros E Despedidas, finds Nascimento singing beautifully on a set of uplifting, provocative songs, all in Portuguese. The album highlights Nascimento in a variety of settings, ranging from lush, sensual ballads to native folk songs to soaring, wordless jazz excursions. His voice is the most beautiful, the most moving of instruments. With it he can arouse the most distant lover, incite the most passionate longings, inspire the most jaded of souls.

Portal Da Cor (Threshold of Colors), a medium-tempo evocation to nature, moves forward with an air of Brazilian coolness and an infectiously danceable beat. Caso de Amor (Love Affair), a lush, fully orchestrated ballad, finds Nascimento flowing as smoothly as oil over water. The sense of urgency that his singing evokes is highlighted by a haunting, sexy alto saxophone accompaniment. One needn't understand Portuguese to appreciate the emotional content present here.

Noites Do Sertao (Country Nights) returns the artist to his native origins. Therein he reflects on the unique qualities of a country night in a distinctly folk-like setting. The simplicity of the music belies the meaningfulness of the lyrics. The singer recites, “Don’t be surprised, my friend/ With the nights in the country/ There's more danger there than poetry/ And in games of the mind/ It can torment/ And create tales . . . ” (translation from album insert).

Mar Do Nosso Amor (Sea of Our Love), a jazzy, up-tempo number, is not nearly as trite as the title suggests. Nascimento sings wonderfully, and the lyrics are intelligent, if not profound. Lagrima Do Sul (Southern Tear) is dedicated to the South African heroine, Winnie Mandela. The song reveals an appreciation not only for a single person's suffering, but for the suffering of an entire people. “Africa, homeland of my forefathers/ I hear the voice of your lament/ Of a crowd/ Chains and slavery.” The album’s only concession to social consciousness, Lagrima Do Sul both inspires and uplifts.

Side one ends with Raca (Race), Nascimento’s evocation to the restless force of youth and will. First performed on Milton, the song receives a funkier reading this time, aided by a swinging alto sax solo.

Encontros E Despedidas (Meetings and Farewells) begins with a haunting solo by flutist Hubert Laws, followed by a moving description of the pains associated with all of our ‘meetings and farewells’ by Nascimento. The singer turns in the standout performance of the album here, delving deep into his seemingly limitless wellspring of emotions and aural colors. Superb.

Friday, April 18, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Quem Perguntou Por Mim (Who Asked For Me), another ballad, one that recalls the songs for which Frank Sinatra and Sarah Vaughn are so famous. Nascimento soars over the rich orchestration in a totally romantic fashion. A Primeira Estrela (The Morning Star) is another standout, featuring Nascimento in a duet with Clara Sandroni. Inspirational in...Tone (almost religious), the song improves with repeated listening. The word here is understatement, even with the introduction of a 14-part chorus singing in unison. "Vidro E Corte" (Glass and Cut) teams Nascimento with guitarist Pat Metheny. Wordless singing (like chanting) gracefully combines with haunting jazz improvisations by Metheny to create a rich texture of dark, introspective sounds. The album ends with "Radio Experiencia" (Radio Experience), an enjoyable if not important addition to a superb effort. For nearly twenty years, Nascimento has created wonderful music for the world. His voice, a thing of magic and beauty, is a universal translator of emotions and tenderness. His latest release reveals an artist of exceptional ability and maturity, a universal musician in the truest sense.

Easter’s genius shines on Let's Active latest
By STEPHEN MANK

Mitch Easter is not a boy genius: It's not that he couldn't be; it's just that as ingenious as pop music is, brilliance seldom really surfaces. But, Easter’s successes are small and brutally delightful. Changes have occurred in his band Let's Active. Prone to frequent personnel changes — the tally is three members lost and four gained since the last album — Easter has wisely pared his studio combo down to the bare minimum. Alone in his little garage studio, he produces and records his creations, calling in other musicians only when necessary. Looking solitary and wistful on the cover of "Big Plans For Everybody," he makes it quite clear whom the biggest plans are for.

The LP begins carefully, enticing the listener with a Morse code piano. Pausing for an instant, Easter gathers his strength only to explode into the at once sparse and lush “In Little Ways.” While the bass sounds orchestral, the naive piano cavorts happily throughout the mix. Later, an eerie backmasked guitar plays hide and seek with an electric guitar in “Writing the Book of Last Pages.” Somehow, Easter seems like the only musician these days who can use such trappings of psychedelia without sounding like a musical resurrectionist. Just as that song’s innocuous message on the workings of the universe and why everyone should be happy fade away, “Last Chance Town” comes screeching around the corner. “The party always leaves me the mess/ Life is bout Over and out,” Easter growls as well as his innocent voice will allow. If his voice isn’t all that abrasive, his lyrics make the message clear: “It’s a long way down here to last chance town.”

It is this kind of music that offers the most promise in Easter’s new repertoire. Not that he’s gotten tougher — heavy metal’s still invisible at this distance — he’s just exploring the uncharted. “Badger” is meditative, “Whispered News” frenetic, and “Reflecting Pool” streamlined in ways Let’s Active’s songs never had been. On “Still Dark Out,” Easter allows Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony to go awry and finally to become barely decipherable in ways that would make the Electric Light Orchestra cringe. Only a masterful songsmith like Easter could make a cut like this one sound so tenuous as it does with the tenacious musicianship that it has. The record closes with “Route 67,” a no-holds-barred slide guitar instrumental that grooves with the best southern boogie. If there be any question in anyone's mind as to whether the kid’s expanded, he puts it firmly and quietly to rest. Pop may not be the best medium to demonstrate intelligence, but Easter’s music fulfills all of rock's promise and that’s certainly something.

You may find it surprising that up to 60% of all cancers can be prevented by avoiding excessive exposure to sunlight, by not smoking cigarettes, by not overeating, and by following a diet high in fiber and low in fat. The battle isn’t over, but we are winning. Please support the American Cancer Society.