Sports Baseball team to challenge for conference title By BOYD COGGINS

While the Davidson basketball team was winning the Southern Conference basketball tournament and a berth in the NCAA tournament, the Wildcat baseball team opened their season by winning three of their first four games. The Cats’ play in all four games has been characterized by powerful hitting, strong defense, and effective pitching.

The Cats have a veteran team which returns all their key players from last year’s squad which finished first in the Southern Division of the Southern Conference with a 24-19 record overall and an 11-5 record in the division. The Cats lost no one to graduation while adding nine freshmen, who should strengthen the team in the depth department as well as on the mound.

Coach George Greer, in his fifth season as Davidson coach, and his players have established as goals: an above .500 record, a Southern Division championship, the conference championship, and an NCAA bid. Greer thinks these goals are within reach if the hitting is steady and improved pitching reduces the team’s earned run average of last year.

The top returners to this year’s team include the four senior co-captains: pitcher Scott Weaver, second baseman Keith Helfant, and outfielders Chip Knox and Tim Waters. Other top performers who return to this year’s team include sophomore centerfielder Bill Masse, junior third baseman David Turgeon, and sophomore shortstop Alan Lewis.

Masse as a freshman won the Southern Conference batting title with a .430 batting average. He led the team in home runs with a school record 10. He also provides the team with speed on the base paths as he stole 27 bases in 30 attempts last season. Masse was named SC Freshman of the Year as well as being voted to the all-conference team in centerfield.

Joining Masse as starters in the outfield will be Waters and junior Dave Depaul. In leftfield, Waters is a three-year starter and letterman with a powerful bat, excellent glove, and strong arm. In rightfield, the Cats have a powerful lefthander in Depaul. He is a superb fielder with a strong throwing arm. His speed allows him to cover a lot of ground which gives him the ability to turn what look like sure doubles or home runs into outs. Other players who will back up Masse, Waters, and Depaul as well as add needed depth to the outfield are Knox, junior Ollie Wagner, sophomores Roy Vilardi and Chris Stuart. Along with these veterans, some freshmen who will see some action in the outfield are Philip Clifford, George Halter, and Mark Weir. With its experience and depth, the outfield stands to be one of the strongest areas for this year’s team.

The infield also looks very solid. The Cats have experience and depth at every position. Turgeon, the third baseman, hit .369, had eight home runs, batted in 53 runs and was named to the all-conference team in 1985. He enters this season with 16 career home runs and 80 career RBIs. He is within range of the school records of 17 and 87 in these categories. At shortstop, sophomore Alan Lewis will be the starter for the second year. In his rookie season, he had a .358 batting average with nine home runs. He led the team in doubles with 16 and RBIs with 61. Lewis should be the premier shortstop in the Southern Division of the conference.

Helfant will man the second base position for the fourth consecutive season. He has a .310 career batting average. He was named to the all-conference team last spring when he hit .348 and had two home runs. He is an outstanding defensive player and one of the best double play men in the Southern Conference. His fielding average for last season was .958.

Weaver and junior Mark Thompson look to split time at first base this year. Weaver, Davidson’s number one pitcher, will start at first base when he is not pitching. Last season he batted .259 while hitting seven doubles and seven home runs. He is an excellent defensive first baseman. He committed only two errors and had a .991 fielding average last season. Thompson, who is a two-year starter and letterman, batted .271 in 24 games in 1985. He has outstanding power with seven extra-base hits in only 59 at-bats and his slugging percentage of .500 last season. His fielding has improved greatly since his freshman year. Last year he made only three errors. Other players who will play important back-up roles in the infield are Stuart, who can play either second or third base, and freshmen Jeff Loser and Harrison Murray.

Behind the plate this spring, the Cats will have depth and experience. The two veteran catchers who will see the most action are junior Dan Simonds and sophomore Rob Zimmerman. They are backed by freshmen John Blankstein, Philip Clifford, Murray, and Mark Weir. Simonds, a two-year starter, will start the majority of the games for the Cats. Last season he batted .274 with five doubles and 16 runs batted in. He has an outstanding throwing arm and blocks the plate well. Simonds will play a major role in helping the Davidson pitchers be successful this season. Zimmerman will share the catching duties with Simonds. In his freshman season, he batted .310 with five doubles and 13 hits in 13 games. Zimmerman is a lefthanded batter and possesses the ability to hit the long ball. He committed only one error last season while fielding at .987.

The entire pitching staff returns from last year’s Southern Division championship team.Weaver, a lefthander, leads the staff. He was 7-5 with a 4.41 ERA last spring and has 15 career victories, only three short of the school record. Weaver led the team in strikeouts last season with 94, which gives him 156 for his career, 17 short of the school record. His best pitch is his change-up, which he uses to supplement his fastball. In addition to Weaver, sophomore lefthander Dave Fitzgerald and junior righthander Steve Condon are expected to be regular starters for the Cats this year. Fitzgerald was 6-3 as a freshman with a 5.96 ERA. Fitzgerald is one of the team’s hardest throwers who also makes good use of his off-speed pitches. Condon had a 5-5 record last season, which included two victories over Southern Conference champion Western Carolina. He led the team with eight complete games in 10 starts. His bread-and-butter pitch is his fastball, which has been clocked at 90 mph. Other pitchers who look to challenge for the remaining spots in the starting rotation include Knox, junior Billy Waitsman (3-2), sophomores Charlie Winborne (1-3) and Darryl Bego (2-1, 4.30 ERA), and freshmen Moure and Loser. Sophomores Ken Bogert and Lewis, and freshmen Philip Magaldi and Carlo Orlando look to fill the positions of long and short relievers. With this staff of 13 pitchers, the Wildcats pitching should be greatly improved this year.

The Cats opened the season on February 21 with a 9-4 victory over Lenoir-Rhyne in Hickory. They smashed five home runs in the first two innings and breezed to victory as Condon picked up the win, going six and one-third innings in relief of Weaver. Condon struck out seven batters while walking none. Leading the 16-hit attack were Lewis and Helfant, who had three hits apiece. In Davidson’s next game, on the first day of spring break, they traveled to Catawba where they won 10-4. Knox got the win by pitching four innings of relief. He struck out two batters and allowed only two hits. The Cats pounded out 12 hits. Helfant was 4 for 4 with two doubles and three runs scored.

On the Cats' spring road trip down south, they ran into some very wintry weather. In Savannah, their game against Armstrong State was snowed out. They then proceeded to Jacksonville, Fla., where, despite cold weather, the Cats split two games with the Jacksonville Bulls. Davidson won the first game 13-12 as they pounded out 17 hits, including home runs by Lewis, Waters, and Stuart. Condon picked up the win by going the first six and one-third innings. In the second game, Davidson lost 10-8, allowing five runs in the first inning. The Cats were led in hitting by Lewis, who went 3 for 4 with a double, and Masse, who hit a three-run homer in the second inning. Bego started for the Cats and pitched six innings while allowing only two earned runs.

On Sunday, Davidson hosted the University of Connecticut in their home opener. Condon pitched a strong game, going the entire route to collect his third win of the season against no losses. Monday, the Cats completed the sweep with a 17-7 thrashing of the Huskies. Turgeon and Zimmerman each collected two homers as Waitsman turned in four and two-thirds innings of shutout relief to lead the team. Wednesday, the team traveled to Boone to meet defending North Division champs Appalachian State. The game started at 2:30 and at 6:08 it was stopped because of darkness. Helfant and Waters both homered for the Cats to help Davidson salvage a 10-10 tie.

This weekend, the team puts its 5-1-1 record on the line as conference play begins Saturday at 1 p.m. for a doubleheader against The Citadel in Charleston, SC. On Sunday, the two teams will square off again. On Monday, Wednesday, and Thursday, the Cats play at home against Husson College, Rhode Island College, and Big Ten contender Northwestern, respectively. Next weekend, they play a three-game series at home against Furman.

Sports Information

Junior pitcher Billy Waitsman in action

Lady Cats take tourney

By EDWIN PAGE

Amid all the excitement about the men’s basketball team’s success, many people may have failed to notice that the women’s team also underwent a dramatic turnaround during the ’85-’86 season. The Lady Cats won their last three games of the season and finished with a 10-8 record. This marked the first season in over a decade that the women’s basketball team has posted a winning record.

The Cats’ last home game showed just how far the team has come since last year. Against a good Coker team, Davidson played tenacious defense on the perimeter. Theresa Martin, Coker’s most dangerous player, was limited to only two points on one-for-nine shooting in the first half and only 12 points for the game. The first half was tight throughout, and Davidson went into the locker room tied at 41 on the strength of 12 points each from junior Jen Artman and freshman Lavetta Dawkins. In the second half, Davidson opened the game and began to build a cushion. Coker, however, hung tough and mounted a challenge. Faced with the Coker rally, the Cats remained calm and stayed with their game plan. They worked the ball well and kept it in the hands of their best free-throw shooters, who calmly stuck the ball in the hole when they were fouled. Davidson steadied and held on for a big 83-80 win. Dawkins finished with 23 points and ten rebounds, while Artman chipped in 18 and nine. Senior Amy Hartman

Continued on page 9