Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Wednesday, December 17, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

News Shorts - Election Results

The following are winners from yesterday's elections:
Union President: James Eric Whytsell (unopposed)
Union Social VP: Allen Compton (unopposed)
Union Co-Curricular VP: Sarah Merritt (unopposed)
YSSC President: Reed Herrero (unopposed)
YSSC VP: John Coleman
Davidsonian Editors: Mark Chen and Keith Finch (unopposed)
Wildcat Handbook Editors: Beth Drummond and Beth Bryson (unopposed)
Student Solicitors: Chip Whittman, Peter Wright, and Rob Zimmerman

The following offices will have run-off elections today:
Freshman Advisors: Bob Boyd/Sharon Spong and Anthony McCarron/Gretchen Schoel
Defense Advisors: Don Collins/Caryn Coppedge/Grant Morain and Laura Fannin/Chuck Harris

Hendrix announces resignation

Director of Admissions Dr. James P. Hendrix, Jr. announced his resignation last week because of personal reasons. He will remain
at Davidson until July 1. Hendrix has accepted the position of headmaster at Ravenscroft High School in Raleigh and will
begin work there next fall.

The Admissions Director said he had come to Davidson first because he believes a person should continually seek to further
his education, second because of his love for his alma mater, and third because of his respect for President Kuykendall.
"I have enjoyed my work here," said Hendrix. "I want to make sure everyone knows how much I regret leaving."

Material contributed by Ed Matthews

Seniors night

The "Seniors Only Night" party for the Class of 1987 will be held tonight. The evening's highlights will include the
announcement of the seniors' choice of a class gift and a talent show featuring replays from the 1983 Freshman Talent
Show. Master of Ceremonies Edin Douglass will introduce the various performers in the talent show. Mark Swift, a pianist, will
present a piece by Debussy. Lanier Alexander has prepared a ventriloquist act. Allen Futral and George Guise, back by popular
demand, will revive their '83 act, "The Freshman Blues." Jackie Daugherty is planning to do a poetry reading, and Dudley
Bell and Scott Saye will sing and play guitars. Chris Wood, a unicyclist, will perform a juggling and cycling act.
Liz Carlton plans to sing. Several seniors are trying to organize a clogging routine, but this act may or may
not materialize. Finally, the now very familiar Bobby Houck will once again sing and play his guitar on the stage
where he gained his campus-wide fame.

Material contributed by Susan Pearsall

Iran scandal deepens. Filipinos gain cease-fire

By DAVID WILLIAMS

Headlining events for the week Dec. 1-17:

Around the World — White House and State Department officials revealed that the United States has been periodically supplying Iraq
with military intelligence about Iran to help Iraq avoid defeat by Iran in the six-year war. Meanwhile, President Reagan assured
Congress that he had no knowledge about the diversion of funds to the Nicaraguan contras from the sale of arms
to Iran.

C.I.A.: Director William Casey testified for more than five hours about the C.I.A.'s role in the arms deal in a
closed session. Representative William Broomfield (R-Mich.) said it appeared that the agency had made "serious errors of judgment" regarding the
diversion of funds. Former Federal Judge Lawrence Walsh was said to be the leading candidate to become the independent counsel
in the investigation of the Iran arms sales. Evidence began to mount that White House Chief of Staff Donald Regan
knew about the diversion of funds.

Israeli jets staged their first attack in two months on rebel bases in Northern Lebanon, killing six people and wounding
20. The Abu Nidal guerrilla group vowed to strike back at Israel to avenge the death of a commander killed
in the attacks.

More than 53 people were killed and 310 were injured in heavy ethnic rioting between Pathans and Mohajirs in Karachi,
Pakistan. In Colombo, Sri Lanka, at least 25 guerrillas of the Tamil separatist movement were killed in fighting between rival
rebel groups.Staff Donald Regan would resign this week over the arms controversy. But Regan testified for five hours before the
Senate Intelligence Committee Tuesday that he plans no resignation and had no knowledge of the diversion of money to the
contras. Meanwhile, informants said Lt. Col. Oliver North had assisted a conservative political action committee this year to defeat Congressional
opponents of military aid to the Nicaraguan rebels. The F.B.I. said it plans to look into allegations that the Honduran
government said it will attack any Nicaraguan troops who cross the Honduran border in search of anti-Sandinista rebels. Meanwhile, a
Nicaraguan appeals court confirmed the sentence of Eugene Hasenfus to 30 years in prison for helping fly weapons to the
contras. Nicaraguan authorities said they have captured and detained another American, Sam Nesley Hall, on suspicion of espionage.

Foreign ministers of NATO proposed a two-tiered set of negotiations with Warsaw Pact nations to replace the current Vienna talks
and to negotiate the reduction of conventional forces in all of Europe. House Democrats approved a resolution requiring the United
States to maintain the limits of the 1979 SALT treaty that the Reagan administration breached this month. American arms negotiator
Max M. Kampelman warned the Soviets in Geneva that the U.S. Presidency has not been weakened because of the Iranian
arms affair.

The first cease-fire in the Philippines in seventeen years went into effect last Wednesday, but Filipinos remained wary as communist
guerrillas later marched into the town of Samal and chanted revolutionary slogans. President Corazon Aquino and her cabinet took measures
to prevent the return of former President Ferdinand Marcos to the Philippines to attend the funeral of his sister, who
died Sunday.

The South African government continued to impose tighter restrictions on political dissent and on news reporting about the nation’s black
revolt. South African authorities said they had shot and killed a suspected insurgent from the African National Congress.

Across the Nation — The Reagan administration proposed major changes in the nation’s welfare system that would give state and
local governments much more power in determining the recipients of welfare payments. Administration officials also said they had ruled out
a plan proposed by Secretary of Health and Human Services Otis Bowen to expand Medicare to cover lengthy hospital stays
in return for an annual premium of $59. Presidential advisors also recommended substantial salary increases for Federal judges, members of
Congress, and executive branch officials.

The Supreme Court paved the way for independents to participate in primary elections by ruling 5-4 that states cannot limit
voting in primaries only to those who have previously enrolled in a political party. The Energy Department announced that the
nuclear reactor in Hanford, Washington, which has key similarities to the Chernobyl reactor, will be shut down for six months
for safety improvements.

In Economic Headlines — In what may be one of the biggest mergers in banking history, The Chemical Bank announced
it had agreed to acquire the Houston-based Texas Commerce Bank for nearly $1.19 billion. The Supreme Court ruled 6-2 that
a company cannot challenge a merger in court solely because it is faced with a threat of losses from increased
competition. Securities and Exchange Commission (S.E.C.) officials testified before Congress that Ivan Boesky was allowed to pay off $1.4 billion
in debt through the sale of stocks and other activities while negotiating an insider-trading settlement with the S.E.C.

Industrial output rose by 0.6 percent in November, the biggest increase since April. Analysts said the increase may have been
spurred more by transactions inspired by the new tax law, rather than by an acceleration of the economy. Retail sales
rose 0.5 percent in November after a record 5.2 percent drop in October. Meanwhile, mortgage rates declined for the third
consecutive month to a 10.34 percent average rate for fixed-rate loans.
