4 = 4 ~ Opinions

The Davidsonian
December 17, 1986

1986 calls for a re-evaluation of American music
James Swisher

The Bicentennial celebration in 1976 sparked a new interest in American music: recordings were made, research got funded, and courses in this neglected area sprung up in college curricula, side-by-side with other “American Studies.” The year-long festival incorporated many musical performances, and both performers and audiences developed a greater familiarity with their varied musical heritage. The effect has been to encourage performers to program American works, and composers to write them.

A decade later, another grand celebration is taking place: 1986 has been proclaimed “the year of the Lady,” focusing attention on an important symbol of our national character, the Statue of Liberty. This proud monument evokes the cardinal premises of American idealism: for the exiled, a new incorporation; for the oppressed, a voice; for the disenfranchised, a vote; for the poor, an opportunity. Then, too, the spectacular refurbishing of the statue brings to mind the powerful force of American technology, whose immanent spirit has shaped our national character.

If the Bicentennial promoted American music, it seems to me that, ten years later, the Statue of Liberty offers us a model for re-examining this music, particularly with regard to its distinction as “American,” as representing the qualities we claim as our own.

To begin, let’s look at the 19th century. If we take as our standard the relative homogeneity of 19th century European music, the American scene appears bewilderingly diverse. Actually, many of the multiple styles had been in place for 200 years by then, including the music of the psalm-singing Puritans, French and Caribbean folk music, the plantation songs of the black African slaves, and many others. Simmered, however, in the vital cauldron of our melting-pot society, these diverse elements were merging to produce uniquely American music. For example, the austere quality of the early Puritan psalms had been invigorated by the enthusiastic revivalist spirit of 18th-century Methodism, and the development of an aspiring middle class in the 19th century promoted a more sophisticated choral tradition. For these Americans, Lowell Mason (1792-1872) created a religious musical style which preserved the original fervor of the Puritan immigrants, combined with the suave harmony of the accepted European style. The result was a hymnodic expression of religious conviction and social self-assurance, entirely appropriate to the period.

In the music of Louis Moreau Gottschalk (1829-69), one finds a similar transmutation of early American traditions. In such pieces as The Union and Columbia (Caprice Americain), Gottschalk catches the effervescent spirit of a growing nation with spectacular paraphrases of patriotic melodies, such as “Yankee Doodle” and the “Star-Spangled Banner.” In a different vein, Gottschalk used the popular Creole and Negro tunes of his native New Orleans as the basis for his piano music.

The emergence of new styles from disparate elements is quite dramatically illustrated by the minstrel songs of Stephen Foster. “Camptown Races” and “Old Black Joe,” for example, describe scenes from plantation life for a predominantly white bourgeois class. The music constitutes a taming of the native African rhythmic and melodic traditions by the prevalent European harmonic style. In turn, this native style enriched and revivified the household song genre in a way which proved prophetic for the development of American music and culture.

A pervasive theme of 20th-century American music has been the celebration of democracy. Aaron Copland’s (b. 1900) Fanfare for the Common Man is a self-evident example, and much of the music of Charles Ives (1874-1954) promotes democratic principles in forceful terms. One thinks of Ives’ song “Majority,” with its powerful social message “The masses have toiled: Behold the works of the world... The masses are dreaming: Behold the visions of God” — all of this to the hammering deep discord of the piano accompaniment. And discord was an important part of Ives’ democratic vision: for him, the duty to dissent was a cardinal principle of democracy. In his Symphony No. 3 “The Camp Meeting,” Ives skillfully combines this democratic ideal with the rich panoply of a diverse religious heritage. It is worth noting that both Copland and Ives were highly educated men, of high social station, whose works nevertheless celebrated ideals common to all Americans.

The landscape and the people are inseparable: America’s vastness and variety are mirrored in its diversity of peoples, and in much of its music. One thinks immediately of Copland’s Appalachian Spring, the perfect evocation (by a Jewish New Yorker!) of the Pennsylvania Shaker communities: the music integrally characterizes the landscape, the folk pastime (a square dance is called), and the religious conviction of the Shakers (with variations on the hymn, “It’s a Gift to be Simple”).

It is perhaps fitting that the great fusion of distinctive American traits in music — the white colonial and black African — should have been accomplished by another Jewish boy from Brooklyn: George Gershwin (1898-1937). The characteristic syncopated rhythms of black dance music of the early 20th century and, joined to the bluesy melodic style of the “plantation songs,” formed the basis for jazz. To this mix, Gershwin added two other ingredients: the formal preoccupations of white “art” music, and the characteristic “Eastern” nuances of Yiddish Theater music (the opening clarinet solo of his Rhapsody in Blue is a wonderful example of this latter influence). One of the results of this extraordinary fusion has been the creation of a uniquely American idiom, a distinctive rhythmic verve coupled to a sophisticated urban style. The social metaphor is apt, for in this idiom we hear a vernacular tradition which has moved “uptown,” and therefore mirrors the 20th-century migration from farm to big city. William Schuman's American Festival Overture is a kind of urban portrait of his hometown New York, the restless middle section representing the new “pulse” ofcity traffic. Gershwin’s "American in Paris" reflects this premise, and Ives too commemorated as many city as country landscapes: “Ann Street,” “Broadway,” and the "Over the Pavements Scherzo," for example. In the '30s, further influences on the development of a distinctive American style came from an unexpected quarter: Europe. As its intellectuals fled Nazi Socialism, emigrating to the United States, the avant-garde techniques of atonal harmony and serial counterpoint current abroad were absorbed by American composers, who had hitherto been devising a native style from whole cloth. The austere atmosphere of the post-Depression era was a fertile climate for these severe, European practices and, in combination with the vital American rhythmic style, these elements produced a distinctive school of American neo-classicism. Wallingford Riegger’s (1885-1961) "New Dance" is aptly named a short example of this style, and David Diamond’s (b. 1915) "Rounds for String Orchestra" demonstrates the powerful flexibility of this new fusion in an extended piece.

No one who has studied American history can fail to be impressed by the influence which technological progress has had upon our civil and cultural developments. This phenomenon has not gone unnoticed by composers. In the '20s, as the clatter of the city was created by automobile and airplane, the machine became a prominent aesthetic focus in some new music. George Antheil (1900-59) composed "Ballet Mecanique," a work scored for (among other percussion) two airplane engines. Edgar Varese (1883-1965) composed works entirely for percussion orchestra, including sirens, and Henry Cowell made the machine itself his special province, writing works which utilized the inside of the piano.

Perhaps the most striking marriage of music and technology has been the recent development of synthesized sound production, which many doomsayers have predicted would mean the decline of conventional music. Mario Davidovsky (b. 1934) has responded to this challenge by the composition of his "Synthesis No. 6 for Piano and Electronic Sounds," which won the 1971 Pulitzer Prize for music. In this work, the two “sound sources” are equal partners in a new type of chamber music: the relationship is by turns strident, discordant, or unanimous, and even intimate. As has often been the case in American music, the most disconcerting newcomer is proving to be a great ally in the constant rejuvenation of our distinctive musical culture. It’s the American way.

Swisher is a pianist and professor of music. Reprinted by permission from Soundings. Swisher will perform Samuel Barber’s Piano Concerto with the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra on Feb. 28, 1987.

---

ROTC commands respect of Davidson students

Rufus Timberlake

In the December 10 issue of The Davidsonian, J. Allen Smith suggested that the ROTC department should be relocated from the basement of Belk dorm to a more remote area on campus. He implied that because Davidson is a Christian-founded liberal arts college, ROTC should not hold such a prominent location on campus. He stated that he is a pacifist and is thus not in favor of any form of militarism. He also expressed his fear that Davidson has made it easier for tomorrow's leaders to choose war over peaceful negotiation by allowing ROTC to be located in such close proximity to freshman housing.

Mr. Smith, I am a second-year ROTC cadet. I am sure that I do not like war any more than you do. In an ideal world, war would not exist. In our less than perfect world, unfortunately, it does. I feel that we should all be thankful that our nation takes pride in a strong defense which protects our state of peace and our many freedoms which include the liberty to worship as a Christian or in whatever way that we desire. I am happy that I can be a part of our national defense system which strives to protect those rights and freedoms that we all too often take for granted. The fact that ROTC has been an integral part of Davidson since 1919 would suggest that the purpose and ideals of ROTC are not in conflict with the school’s Christian heritage, but rather strengthen and support it. Davidson’s motto, Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas, is translated, “Let Learning Be Cherished Where Liberty Has Arisen.” The liberty to which it refers is defended by our nation’s military as well as by each member of the Davidson student body and faculty.

ROTC is not for everyone, nor is it perfect, but there is no reason why the Davidson College community should not offer a certain degree of respect and support for our purpose. We attempt to serve Davidson and the community through various activities including the sponsorship of blood drives, a monthly prayer breakfast open to all, and rappelling clinics for P.E. credit. I would be very pleased to see the relationship between ROTC and the rest of Davidson College broaden and become more fruitful. I think that you might be surprised at our willingness to cooperate if our assistance is requested.

Regarding your fear of ROTC’s presence in basement Belk having a bad influence on our freshmen, I think you are drastically underestimating the capacity of the freshmen to think and reason. I would hope that the caliber of Davidson freshmen is above being influenced into a state of war-mindedness simply because the ROTC department is located in the vicinity of their housing. Surely the freshmen deserve more credit than you give them. Instead of worrying about the location of ROTC on campus, why don’t you write encouraging the freshmen to become involved with the Dean Rusk Program, Amnesty International, or other campus extracurriculars in which they can serve the community and broaden their horizons. Mr. Smith, your heart is in the right place for wanting what is best for our freshmen. Maybe with some reevaluation and thought your reasoning can find its place as well.

Timberlake is a sophomore physics major from Charlotte, NC.