Friday, October 31, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Education department seeks accreditation
By JIM DILLON

Davidson’s education department was put on probation by the North Carolina Department of Public Instruction during the summer, but new
education department chairman Miriam Leiva said the department is rectifying all problems, and students now in the program will receive
standard certification.

The reasons Davidson received only probational approval were primarily technicalities, according to Leiva. The state requires standards of admission, retention,
and exit from the education program. Leiva said Davidson does not have the problems that many other schools do because
those standards would generally be met by any student gaining entrance to Davidson and because Davidson’s failure rate is low.

“There were no standards specified by the education department,” Leiva said. “A lot of that is taken care of by
the students’ admission to Davidson. We admit students to the program by approval of a teacher education committee, but the
state wants guidelines spelled out.”

Leiva said the department will work to prepare a manual which includes those criteria before the two-year probation has ended.
The state also requires a curriculum laboratory containing textbooks available to potential teachers, and until this year Davidson had no
such facility. The state further suggested greater emphasis on the use of computers in the classroom.

“There is no question about the quality of our program,” Leiva said. “This program was recognized by the state as
an outstanding program. There are just some logistics that have to be worked out. We feel pretty good about it
though. We’re not rushing. Whenever we do it, we want to do it right. We have two years, but I
expect that we will certainly be prepared before then.”

Leiva said she has met with state officials to make sure her understanding of the requirements is correct. When the
changes are completed, Leiva will have to meet with the Division of Program Approval in Raleigh, and a short on-site
visit of 2-3 people will be conducted. Leiva said she thinks the probation has positively affected the teacher education program
at Davidson.

“Publishers and school systems have donated video cassette tapes on education, textbooks, curriculum guides, and other materials into the thousands
of dollars,” Leiva said. “As a result of the request for a curriculum lab, we have received contributions from all
kinds of people.”

Leiva became chairman of the education department upon the retirement of William Hight at the end of the 85-86 year.
She was a professor of mathematics and coordinator of the mathematics education program at the University of North Carolina at
Charlotte prior to coming to Davidson. Leiva has a B.S. in mathematics from Guilford College.

Twelve colleges join Gifts-in-Kind
By NELLE MCCORKLE

Company/College Gifts-In-Kind Clearing House added 12 member colleges during the past two weeks for a total of 85 member colleges,
twice last year’s membership. For the first time, the clearing house membership incorporates independent colleges west of the Mississippi River,
including Lewis and Clark, Reed, Pepperdine, and Mills.

Clearing House Executive Director James Herring attributed the increase to his West Coast visit this month and to clearing house
publicity in Forbes, The New York Times, and other national publications. The monthly American Association of Retired Persons News Bulletin,
with a 15-million circulation, features a clearing house volunteer in its November issue.

Herring expects clearing house donations’ dollar value to double this year, from $2,000,000 to $4,000,000 in market-value goods. He cited
corporate tax benefits as a motivating factor behind the expected increase, but also said, “More than two-thirds of what we
get is not given for tax reasons. A lot of the stuff — laboratory equipment and furniture — has no
book value.”

Convenience constitutes part of the clearing house’s corporate appeal, Herring said. “It would not be worth a corporation’s time to
seek out individual colleges or non-profit organizations that needed a centrifuge or a freezer or an electric sander that the
company wanted to get rid of,” he said. “We can either make a match with a college immediately, or store
donated items we think colleges will be needing in the near future, or sell items with donor permission to outside
buyers and reinvest the money in the clearing house.”

Begun in September 1983, the clearing house channels corporate noncash gifts to colleges needing those specific items. Guilford Mills donated
a textile mill and acreage to the clearing house; the funds from the sale of this plant and of other
gifts not needed by colleges pay clearing house operating expenses. Atlantic Richfield and R.J. Reynolds gave grants, but Davidson College
participates as a member college rather than as the clearing house’s sponsoring institution. Each member college pays $1000 annually to
participate in ongoing bidding for donated items. This fee provides one-third of the amount required for the clearing house’s operation;
colleges receiving donations pay shipping costs. The clearing house circulates lists of available items to member colleges.an M.A. in mathematics
from UNC-Chapel Hill and a Ph.D. in mathematics education from Union Graduate School. Leiva was teacher of the year at
UNCC in 1981 and received the North Carolina State Award for Excellence in Mathematics Education in 1983. She is currently
president of the North Carolina Council of Teachers of Mathematics. Leiva said the department is attempting to make other changes
in the teacher education program besides those requested by the committee. “We're trying to get students interested earlier in teacher
education, and that includes school-based experiences so they can find out earlier if teaching is for them,” Leiva said. “Through
observation and tutoring, you will find out. We’re trying to start that kind of preparation earlier. That is not a
result of what the state told us but our efforts here.”

Clearing House lists available items; colleges then bid on these items using a point system. Colleges receive points by membership
and by donating unused items; they exchange these points for desired equipment. Herring originated the clearing house idea following his
experience as an Atlantic Richfield executive. “I hated to see the waste of things corporations can’t use,” he said. “It
was just an idea that evolved from my own experience of seeing things wasted. Nobody wants to offend the donor.”
Asked why he chose Davidson as the clearing house site, Herring said, “I was living here. This could be at
any college or at no college at all.”

Only Davidson belonged when the clearing house began. “Davidson gave us a great head start, because it’s a highly regarded
school,” according to Herring. “The other southern schools saw it and wanted to join. I don’t think it would have
gotten off the ground if it hadn’t been at Davidson. As we’ve grown bigger, with more colleges, it’s easier,” he
said. Direct equipment benefits to Davidson include a climate control laboratory, copying machine, word processor, telephones, laboratory balance, and hydrometers.
Other recent gifts to the clearing house itself are 900 35 millimeter films and 700 pounds of erasers.

Four full-time and four part-time and volunteer employees work at the clearing house. Herring requested student volunteer help next week
anticipating increased calls following AARP News Bulletin coverage. He said, “Student volunteers will be recompensed in erasers.”

YSSC unites Davidson College with community
By LUCIA KENDALL

The YSSC is sponsoring a community work day Saturday, Nov. 8 from 1:30 to 4 p.m. There are a variety
of service projects going on, including yard work for senior citizens, tilling a vegetable garden at the daycare center, cleaning
at the community center for the senior lunch program, and clearing a nature trail at Davidson Elementary School. At the
end of the afternoon, workers will be invited to a chili dinner at the KA house.

According to Vickie Rogers, the purpose of the work day is to have the YSSC serve as an intermediary between
the community and the college. “We thought putting projects on one day would give them special emphasis,” said Dan Murrey,
president of the Y-Student Service Corps. “We wanted something noticeable to the entire community and to the entire campus.” Rogers
added, “I think it’s a lot more productive to get the campus as a whole involved, rather than just the
individual houses. People get a sense of doing something not only with their house, but also with the whole student
body. And with everyone doing it together I think it'll be a lot more fun.”

Both Murrey and Rogers were impressed with the response from students, especially eating houses and fraternities. “It’s really cool,” Rogers
said. “You know when people start coming up to you asking for service projects like the Phi Delts did, that
it’s going to be great. It seems like Patterson Court is more service-oriented than it has been before. I don’t
know why, maybe it’s just a change in attitudes about the world.” Faculty members have also been contacted and hopefully
will be able to help out with some of the projects.

Based on the enthusiasm from the organizers and students, it seems likely that the community work day will become a
Davidson tradition. “It’s an orientation that could increase year-long involvement in community service,” suggested Rogers. “Once people realize what they
can do and how much their help is appreciated they may want to devote more time to a particular activity.
For example, the Sig Ep’s have decided to put in a lot of work over at the community center. With
all the things going on on campus, the social activities, the lecturers and people we bring in, a lot of
people tend to forget that there is a community out there. This is a great way to establish contact with
people in the community.”

If you would like to get involved with the community service day, contact Perry Killam at (-1799) or Vickie Rogers
at (-6359).

UNITED BANK CAROLINA
Mon-Thurs. 9-5
Downtown Davidson
Come Bank with Us
