4 Friday, May 2, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Staley lecturer discusses Dante, Protestant faith
By ANDREA GROSS

Dr. Stuart C. Henry, this year’s Staley Visiting Professor of Religion, spoke Monday and Tuesday nights in the 900 Room as part of “The Staley Distinguished Christian Scholar Lecture Program.” The theme of the two lectures was “Protestants Before and After the Reformation: Accenting the Positive in Protest.” Monday’s talk, “Dante and the Principle,” discussed the Christian insights which can be found in Dante. The talk on Tuesday, “Radicals and the Recognition,” detailed the distinctive aspects of the Protestant faith.

Overall, Dr. Henry chose Dante as a subject for study because his epic illustrates the Protestant principle of “self-examination that issues in creativity and growth.” Dr. Henry feels, in accordance with Tillich, that “Protestantism may die out, but the Protestant Principle never will.” His discussion of Dante, which moved chronologically through the epic, was on “an anagogical level.” Dr. Henry reflected that Protestants “see who we are in reference to God” and that the people in Dante's hell “have denied everything that is possibly human. They are what they love.” Dante’s purgatory demonstrates “the self-giving, creative character of love,” Henry also explained. When Dante's hero reaches heaven, Henry said, he recognizes the need to surrender to God, learns the principle of self-examination, and returns to earth to see the deity in others.

On Tuesday night, Dr. Henry outlined the three tenets of Protestant faith: “the authority of the word in matters of faith and practice,” “the priesthood of believers,” and “salvation by grace.” Discussing the authority of the word, Henry quoted Calvin, “we must do our own believing as we must do our own dying.” He explained that the priesthood of believers is “a whole new concept of the meaning of the church — it is a living thing.” While addressing salvation by grace, Dr. Henry praised Faulkner particularly for his work Requiem for a Nun. This work illustrates, Henry said, that it is not the “American aesthetic hero” who needs grace, “a perfectly free gift,” but “the person who can no longer help himself.”

Dr. Henry incorporated many humorous anecdotes from his life and from literature into his speeches. “People who tell me that God didn’t answer their prayers really mean that he didn't take their advice,” he said. Henry addressed an audience of between thirty and forty people both evenings. Dr. Henry is a graduate of Davidson who earned his Ph.D. from Duke Divinity School. He is an ordained minister as well as a published author.

Specialist speaks on the effects of television on children
By AARON LEVINE

Wednesday, Dr. Eli Rubenstein, a specialist on the effect of television on children, gave two talks: “Television and the Young Viewer” and “The Media, Social Science and Social Policy for Children.” The first talk dealt with a federal study published in 1972 by the Surgeon General's Scientific Advisory Committee on TV and Social Behavior, of which Rubenstein was coordinator of a national program of research on television and social behavior for the National Institute for Mental Health (NIMH). The findings of the NIMH group were summarized in the Surgeon General's report.

When the study was commissioned in 1964, the question posed was whether television has an adverse effect on children’s mental health. Since the matter was posed as a problem of mental health, it was deemed worthy of the Surgeon General's attention. When the study was finally published in 1972, it was determined that there “was a causal relationship between television violence and later aggressive behavior in the child.” The concrete results of the study were: 1) there was not much change in the way the television industry handles the situations of violence that occur, and 2) a “content analysis” of television programming was instituted for a few years after 1972 in which it was found that the level of TV violence remained at a high level with the exception of 1975. (The American Medical Association influenced that year’s results by terming television an environmental hazard.)

These results caused many new people and groups to become interested in the effects of television violence. With the 1982 follow-up report, the emphasis shifted from the effects of TV violence to the other effects television has on children. Twenty-five researchers were asked to write a chapter summarizing the research in their particular field of television/social behavior expertise. They determined that the networks do not do a good job in their programming of emphasizing the right values for youths. The networks responded with Saturday morning cartoons which show the “good guys” winning in the end and called this value-oriented programming. Yet as Rubenstein stated, “For the very young... the connection between action and consequences is not made.”

It was also found that television stereotyped certain groups and does not give the imagination full play (like radio does) because the images are already provided. Television gives a warped view of the world. Advertisements socialize children to...become consumers. It was also found that television presents an unrealistic view of conflict resolution; however, this problem has been lessened with shows like Hill Street Blues, which ends episodes with an air of irresolution. Finally, Rubenstein stated that "what we have to do is educate the public to be more sophisticated in what they see on television and what they like on it... parents should recognize that television is not an innocuous babysitter." Rubenstein pointed out there is no need for government regulation, although the government should keep tabs on the networks.

The second talk dealt with the effect of the media on the dissemination of information on social science research. This research is often (hopelessly) intertwined with politics. For example, in 1970 the Senate rejected the scientific findings of the National Committee on Obscenity and Pornography. The committee had failed to show any anti-social effect from exposure to pornography. When the 1966 Kulman Report on school desegregation came out, the Johnson Administration used it to maintain achievement has little to do with actual equality. The Nixon Administration used it to argue for aid cuts in education, and New York Democrat Daniel Moynihan used it for proof that American education should be reformed. The way in which these findings were stated in the media had an effect on the way they were politically used.

If one looks deeper into the problem, Rubenstein maintained, one would see that scientists have the view that journalists, when it comes to science, are ignorant, inaccurate, and more interested in a good story than good science. For a better relationship between media and social scientists, these communication problems have to be overcome, Rubenstein said. From 1979 to 1982, UNC Chapel Hill worked to bridge the gap with workshops between scientists and journalists. The scientist would make a presentation, the journalist would write a story on it, and both would then discuss the results. The journalists often complained the scientists did not understand their operational problems. With a deadline, a journalist might not be able to get all the needed facts. Rubenstein ended by saying, "I hope media, social science, and research on children could form a meeting point."

Receiving his doctorate in psychology from the Catholic University of America, Rubenstein is presently Adjunct Research Professor of Mass Communications at UNC Chapel Hill. Rubenstein is co-author of The Media, Social Science and Social Policy for Children and wrote a chapter for Children and the Faces of Television: Teaching, Violence, Selling, co-edited by Dr. Ed Palmer, chairman of Davidson’s psychology department.

Minority students attend Admissions program
By NELLF MCCORKLE

Minority high school students nominated by their guidance counselors attended “Davidson: College and Career Perspectives at a Highly Selective Liberal Arts College,” a one-day program sponsored by the Admissions Office Saturday. Eighteen high school sophomores and juniors participated; parents and guidance counselors also came. The students, all in the top 20 percent of their classes, live within one and a half hours of Davidson.

Asked the reason for a separate minority admissions program, Assistant Director of Admissions Gary Mason said, “It’s not really separate. In admissions, you target groups with similar interests — football players, foreign students. When you identify potential pools of applicants and group them, you try to address the questions of that particular group. Now the thing about Davidson is, it's been around a hundred and fifty years, so there are lots of alumni around. But they're not necessarily in minority communities, so we have to put the signposts up.

“Even in the face of some confusing publicity about the Klan march held in Davidson the night before, the program was still well-attended and was a success,” Mason said. Approximately 60 students, parents, and counselors registered; 28 came. “We invited less than 100 students so that’s a really good response rate,” according to Mason.

Mason said the Admissions Office plans to conduct a similar meeting next year. “We're building a new type of programming,” he said. “We've never done this type of programming before; it's brand new. We weren't trying to recruit students, we were trying to nurture students and their parents. We were trying to be visible and be perceived as a place that is welcoming.”

Acting Dean of Financial Aid Kathleen Stevenson said of the program, “It was a counseling function as well as a recruitment function.” Activities included a speech by Dr. Kuykendall; a discussion of the value of liberal arts by Professors Ault, Bliss, Foley, and Putnam; a campus tour; speeches by Mason, Stevenson, and Assistant Dean of Students Paula Moore Miller on application, financial aid, and Davidson opportunities, respectively; and a Vail Commons luncheon. Small group meetings permitted students to discuss specific disciplines with Professors Albinder, Barton, Case, Holland, King, Ligo, Manning, Nutt, Clark, Ross, and Stott, and freshman Melissa Giverns. Sophomores Emanuel Burch and Mike Makonnen and junior Jackie Daughtry addressed the group on student life.