Features Fefu and Her Friends opens one-act play series
By LAURIE BALLENGER

Maria Irene Fornes’ Fefu and Her Friends opened this year’s series of student-directed one-act plays in performances Wednesday and Thursday
nights. In addition to propounding themes of women’s concerns, the play was an effective experiment in staging.

The plot focuses on eight women struggling to define their roles in society while attempting to maintain their relationships with
each other. The first scene took place in the living room. The audience was in a small space and the
presentation was reminiscent of an off-Broadway production. Scene 2 divided the audience into four groups. Led by an usher, each
group traveled to a different part of Cunningham. After viewing the study scene, they progressed to the bedroom, the kitchen,
the lawn, and then back to the living room for the third scene. The actresses performed their parts in Scene
2 a total of four times. Although each group viewed the scenes in a different sequence, the staging was directed
with precision.

Assistant Director John Harris discussed the difficulty of timing the scenes so that all the scenes started: “We finally figured
out the easiest way was to use two headsets, one near the bedroom scene and one near the lawn since
the ushers at the study and kitchen were in sight of each other. That way all the ushers could simultaneously
signal the actresses to begin and all the scenes would play at once. Fefu (Donna Peters) had the most trouble
since she, in order to interrupt several scenes as her part called for, had to time her appearances accurately.”

Many people attended the workshop production thinking that it was a comedy. It isn’t, although it did have its humorous
moments. Harris expressed surprise that Emma's (Copland Arnold) speech in Scene 3 turned out to be humorous. “I guess after
we had heard the lines 900 times we stopped listening to them,” Harris said. “When Copland started her speech and
everyone laughed I realized that yes, the dramatics were also funny and she was making the best of it by
playing it for laughs.”

Harris insists that “though the play has feminist undertones, the appeal is in the characters’ development.” Harris also reflected about
how the play was chosen and cast: “Anne [Lambert], the director, found Fefu last year but due to several problems
she had trouble getting the rights to the play — we almost didn’t perform it. When we held tryouts 40
women tried out for eight places. They were all terribly good and it took an hour and a half to
narrow it down.”

The characters were complex. Donna Peters played the irrepressible Fefu. Katie Oates portrayed the more practical Cindy while Greta Ratliff
played Cindy’s more timid friend Christina. Margaret Hancock played the somewhat embittered Paula, while Florence Cohen-Boulakia portrayed Celia, the lover
who rejected her. The reserved yet compassionate Sue was played by Anne Blue and Alison McGill portrayed the tormented Julia.

“The cast,” Harris said, “is very talented. Several of the freshmen have had a lot of stage experience and during
rehearsals their questions were those of seasoned actresses. They worked diligently over Christmas not only to perfect their lines but
also to interpret their characters’ thoughts and actions.”

High school pianists to compete at Davidson
By BILL BUGG

Eighteen high school pianists from the Carolinas will compete today and tomorrow in Davidson College’s second annual “The Davidson Competition
1986.” The competition will feature a recital by Associate Professor of Music James Swisher and a master class taught by
visiting artist Robert Weirich.

The high school students must play three works from contrasting periods, including one piece composed since 1945. First and second
prizes of $300 and $100 will be awarded to the two best performances, and the most outstanding performance of a
work written since 1945 will receive a special prize of $100. Selection of the award winners will be determined by
the technical command, musical skills, and recital presentation of each performer.

According to Davidson music lecturer Joel Harrison, coordinator of the competition, “Some of these contestants are winning competitions all over
the Southeast and are representative of some of the very best talent of high school pianists of the Carolinas.”

Preliminary auditions will begin this afternoon in Hodson Hall and Love Auditorium. Judges for the preliminaries are Converse College Professor
of Music Douglas Weeks and University of North Carolina at Greensboro Professor of Music Paul.Stewart. Six finalists will perform in
recital format in Hodson Hall at 2 p.m. Saturday. The final auditions will be judged by Weirich and are open
to the public. Harrison expects “the finals to be of high quality due to the level of repertoire of the
contestants.” The high school pianists’ repertoire includes Bach preludes and fugues, Beethoven’s “Appassionata” and “Pathetique” sonatas, Chopin Etudes, Debussy’s L’Isle
Joyeuse, a Prokofiev Toccata, and the Ginastera Sonata and Barber Sonata, “two of the most exciting works of the twentieth
century for the piano,” according to Harrison.

Swisher’s recital, scheduled for 8:15 this evening, will include Bach’s “Prelude and Fugue in D Major,” BWV 874, Brahms’ “Piano
Pieces,” Op. 119, Liszt’s “Mephisto Waltz” and Beethoven’s “Sonata in C Major,” Op. 53. On leave this year from Davidson
to pursue doctoral studies at the Yale School of Music, Swisher has been on the music faculty at Davidson since
1978. He holds a bachelor’s and master’s degree from the Yale School of Music.

The Saturday morning master class in Hodson Hall features five Davidson piano students. After each student performs a work from
memory, Weirich, former head of the piano department at Northwestern University and recently appointed to the faculty at the prestigious
Peabody Conservatory, will make suggestions and comments for the benefit of not only the Davidson pianists but also the audience.

The Davidson Competition was founded by the college music department last year with the intention of promoting a quality competition
for high school pianists in a collegiate atmosphere. After a highly successful competition last year, the Music Department decided to
make the event annual. “The level of repertoire would seem to be just as high as last year, if not
higher,” Harrison said. “A number of people are returning, including last year’s runner-up.”

Repo Man tells of punk’s quest for Chevy Malibu
By JENNY LIVINGSTON

Ever wonder what becomes of old teen-idol musicians? Some fade away, some just get older, and a few get weird.
Ex-Monkee Michael Nesmith was always slightly off, but he has since entered the realm of the definitely weird — case
in point: his 1983 production of Alex Cox's “Repo Man.” It’s the story of Otto Madd, a self-proclaimed “white suburban
punk” who unwittingly becomes a repossessor of cars — a repo man. He gets involved in a quest for a
Chevy Malibu piloted by a lobotomized one-eyed man.

But it’s the characters that are really rich. Otto, our hero, is probably the sanest of the group. He is
surrounded by people like Miller, the maintenance man at the car lot who theorizes on the origins of man; like
Otto’s parents who've been seduced by the television God-squad; like Leila, a sort of freaked-out bohemian tart on the run;
and Bud, Otto’s repo-mentor who's as serious as the “repo code” he lives by.

Okay, so it’s a strange movie, but is it any good? Well, first of all the soundtrack is great —
mostly hardcore. There’s even an appearance by The Circle Jerks in addition to background music by Black Flag (TV Party),
Fear (Let's Have a War), Suicidal Tendencies (Institutionalized), and the Burning Sensations (Pablo Picasso). The Repo theme was written and
performed by Iggy Pop. In the theme song the line “I am looking for the joke with a microscope” really
seems to set the tone for the movie.

“Repo Man” is funny, no doubt about that, but the humor is really to be found in minutia. Most of
the humor does not call attention to itself — it is up to the audience to pick it out. There
are only a few of what could be deemed jokes or one-liners. It’s not a laugh-out-loud type movie (except for
a few parts), but the overall effect is amusing nevertheless. None of the humor would work at all without the
incredible timing of the actors.

Otto is played by (of all people) Emilio Estevez in his pre-Brat Pack days. He is strong, raw, and really
shows the talent absent in his recent work. The supporting cast is excellent, mostly unknown except for veteran Harry Dean
Stanton who plays Bud with conviction and sympathy.

The film as a whole does seem to lack some continuity, in all its disparate jokes. It also drags a
little towards the end. But neither is particularly bothersome, strangely enough. It’s so interesting visually and conceptually that it doesn’t
really matter. “Repo Man” holds your attention no matter what. I recommend it: it’s fun and, what the hell, it’s
only $1.50.

Robert Nesbit
