2 - News: Summary -

Arms race specialist to speak at Davidson

A specialist in nuclear arms issues speaks about what he calls the addiction of the United States and the Soviet
Union to nuclear weapons. Tom Halsted, a columnist, lecturer, and consultant, was a senior official at the federal Arms Control
and Disarmament Agency from 1977 to 1981. As the agency’s director of public affairs, Halsted was the principal U.S. government
official responsible for educating the public about SALT II. Halsted has also served as chief executive officer for the Council
for a Livable World, the Arms Control Association, and Physicians for Social Responsibility.

Halsted argues that in the pursuit of security through a continuing arms buildup, the United States and the Soviet Union
have become as addicted to the nuclear arms race as an alcoholic to drink, with comparable destructive effects on national
health, economy, and well-being. Halsted will appear with Norris Frederick '70, executive director of North Carolina SANE, in an open
forum about results of the U.S.-Soviet summit meeting at 4 p.m. Tuesday in the Morrison Room. Frederick is a lecturer
in philosophy at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. Frederick met with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev and the Rev.
Jesse Jackson during the summit. Halsted will also speak at 7 p.m. Tuesday in the 900 Room.

Alumnus to perform in vesper concert

Baritone Roger Saylor '75 will perform in this season's fifth vesper concert Thursday. He will be accompanied on piano by
music professor Joel Harrison. The program includes Robert Schumann's “Dichterliebe,” Hugo Wolf's “Three Mörike Songs,” Samuel Barber’s “Three James Joyce
Songs,” and three arrangements by Benjamin Britten: “Salley Gardens,” “How Sweet the Answer,” and “Foggy Foggy Dew.”

After graduating from Davidson, Saylor received a master’s degree from the University of Southern California. He later studied at the
Britten-Pears School in London for two years, where he worked with Sir Peter Pears. Saylor won the National Arts and
Letters Competition in 1981. The concert is scheduled for 8 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

Currie to retire

By KEITH FINCH

Robert Currie, college business manager for the past twenty-eight years, will retire from his post sometime this month.

In talking of his leaving, Currie said: “It’s something of a winding-down process, because I'll be taking part in the
transition procedure. I have to complete some unfinished matters involving college properties, so I'll continue to work in a limited
capacity for a while.” He mentioned that he would continue to work full-time for about two more weeks, and then
“gradually taper off.”

Currie’s retirement has prompted considerations of prospects for change. In a Nov. 15 letter to the faculty and staff, President
Kuykendall wrote, “I have reached the conclusion after considerable consultation that it will be best for us to restructure the
administration of the college in the area of business and finance by the appointment of an officer with the title
of vice president, to whom the several aspects of the college in that area will report.”

Currie commented on the decision to create a vice-presidential position, “It’s the way most other schools are.”organized — to have
one principal business officer.” He said he intends to remain in Davidson after his retirement. “In the recent election I
was elected to be Town Commissioner, and I look forward to working with the Town Council. My wife and I
hope to do a little traveling, more in the region than to any place exotic. Next fall we might take
in New England and some areas in North Carolina and the neighboring states we haven’t seen.

Friday, January 10, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

“Being a part of Davidson in these years has been a privilege — I’ve seen expansions in the size of
enrollment, property holdings and many other changes, including coeducation.” He said: “But there’s the same school spirit here. The college
and the community remain unique. By and large I feel that these have been good years. I’m glad to be
continuing in the community, and I feel that the future of the college is very bright.”

Currie also said that he intends to pursue activities like gardening, housework, and fishing. He emphasized one pursuit in particular,
“I'll work on my golf swing — it needs it.” He added, “I will continue to look forward to reading
The Davidsonian.”

Robert Currie, college business manager for 28 years, looks forward to his retirement.

Brevard, N.C.
Jan. 13
Union Lobby
Nath. Thompson
Camp Director

SUMMER JOB OPPORTUNITIES
Camp Carolina For Boys
Interviews on Monday, 11 a.m. — 4 p.m.

After you're done with school face one of the toughest lessons in life: Without experience, it's tough to get a
job. And without a job, it's tough to get experience. At The Wall Street Journal, we recognize that experience is
something you don't start earning until after graduation. But while you're waiting, we can give you a head start by
providing some of the same competitive advantages that experience brings.

For instance, our wide-ranging news coverage gives you a clearer understanding of the whole complex world. Our tightly focused feature
reports in management, accounting, finance, technology, marketing or small business help you prepare for your more specific ambitions. And our
in-depth analysis helps you formulate your ideas in a sharper, more persuasive way.

Call 800-257-1200 ext. 806 — or mail the coupon — and start your subscription to The Wall Street Journal at
student savings of up to $44 off the regular subscription price.

The Wall Street Journal.
