—— Friday, September 26, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN —— 

Wait Until Dark combines diverse elements 
By MARK CHEN

Wait Until Dark is a number of fine movies put together. Part of it is a look at how the blind struggle with a clumsy and insensitive world. But then another part deals with drug smugglers and their sleazy world. Yet another part is unbridled violence. The strong men in this movie are either powerless or evil. The weak, cringing heroine must fend for herself. Elaborate deceptions come on top of other deceptions. It is a mystery with as much intrigue as anything written by Agatha Christie. At the same time, it breaks out with sudden, cruel violence, something which would have been distasteful to Ms. Christie. The movie is a bundle of contradictions and surprises which somehow work all together.

The movie begins with an old man ripping apart a doll, a rather perverse image. He takes out the stuffing and stuffs the doll with packets of heroin. Then a woman takes the doll and goes to the airport. She catches a plane for New York and arrives there, still carrying the doll in her arms. But then she sees a fairly sinister figure waiting for her at the terminal. She hands the doll to a stranger she met on the plane, and then goes to meet the man waiting for her.

The movie then makes a sudden switch to a nice New York neighborhood. Two men are looking for a particular apartment in the neighborhood. Mike Talman, played by Richard Crenna, is a partner with the woman on the plane. Carlino, played by Jack Weston, is also part of the gang. They come to the right apartment but find no one there. Just as they are about to leave, the sinister man from the airport enters the apartment. He is Mr. Roat, played by Alan Arkin, who prefers to wear wire sunglasses no matter the time of day or night. He tells them that they must search for the doll in that apartment.

The men are startled when yet another person enters the apartment. Susy Hendrix, played by Audrey Hepburn, walks past them standing in full view without seeing them. She turns out to be married to Sam, the stranger who received the doll. She also happens to have been blinded recently in an accident, and is still unsure about how to deal with the world. The next day Sam leaves for work and plans to be gone until late that night. What follows is a bizarre and ever-more menacing series of mind games played by the smugglers upon Susy Hendrix. For the rest of the day, Susy is almost a prisoner as these men, under a variety of disguises, search through her home. Her presence complicates the situation.

An alternate view on Dr. Williams’ speech 
By JIM BOB HOBBES

I was sitting around the other day trying to think up a new nickname for my car, seeing as I had to have it repainted and all after Will Terry spotted it doing 46 miles per hour through his bed of geraniums. I'd already ruled out “Love Bandit” and “Chick-o-matic” as too hippie sounding, when I overheard two of my buddies talking about going to hear some lecture on Cher Noble. Now, I’d been on vacation for a week or so, and hadn’t been exactly caught up on my STAR newspaper, but it still surprised me to hear that that Cher actress person had gotten married again. I knew she’d been married to some little Sonny Italian fellow, then got it up with Gregg Allman, but I didn’t even hear about Cher foolin’ around with no Noble person. Being a curious sort of guy, I decided to head over to the 900 Room and hear about Cher and her new man.

Well, I'll be damned if I don’t get over there and find this new dean of faculty, the one ol’ Doc Manning has to go see when he gets caught launching whistling bottle-rockets into Professor Epes' window, and his name is Doctor Robert Williams. I got real suspicious of him when I found out that he only had one first name, and when he told us all that he was going to talk about “The Soviet Union After Cher Noble,” cold chills went up and down my spine. The Evil Empire itself had killed that actress lady, and there was no doubt in my mind that the U.S. of A. was in a whole heap of danger! Having forgotten my good hickory ax handle, I was basically defenseless, so I sat in my seat, stiller than if I'd been in a room full of nuns, half-expecting to hear about the coming of the Apocalypse.smugglers' plans, yet they deftly and almost insolently keep her in ignorance about their true identities. The action never moves from Susy’s apartment as these men come and go. They are always present in her apartment or across the street. Not only is she without sight, but she is also without knowledge of the deceits surrounding her. The tension grows until it is released in a fashion as bloody as any mad slasher movie. The performances are all good in this movie and are reason enough to see Wait Until Dark.

As Mike Talman, Crenna works well as the handsome hero who seems too good to be true, the strong man to save the helpless victim. But Hollywood stereotypes have no place in this movie. He is also the deceiver who must be around Susy all the time in order to play his double game. His character grows more complex as the movie progresses. Weston plays a kind of bumbling sidekick, not a large role but one which he performs well. Arkin has a difficult role as the ultimate creep. At first, Arkin comes across as a joke, a caricature of evil. But he grows more sinister as the plot develops, until he becomes frightening to the audience.

The best performance is by Hepburn as Susy Hendrix. She is very believable as a blind person who must take on the world. Vulnerable and nearly helpless at the beginning of the movie, she grows stronger until she faces all three men on her own. Her role is at the heart of this movie, helping all its other parts through the strength of her performance. Wait Until Dark succeeds where other hack-and-slash productions fail. It truly frightens and shocks where the others startle. While other murder mysteries bore us as anatomy lessons, Wait Until Dark achieves a far more powerful effect with much less gore. This movie should not be missed. Remember, remember, on Saturday or Sunday at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

I'd have sooner bought a Japanese pick-up truck than guess what he had to say next. As Dr. Williams tells it, the Ruskies had a nuclear plant, one of those that produces more power than six Chrysler 440 engines, melt right down to the core and let out a whole lotta steam. If that weren’t trouble enough, the steam was radioactive and could’ve cooked up several rolls of Jimmy Dean pork sausage. To make it into an even bigger dog, the Russians didn’t tell anybody about this little accident, and didn’t even mention it until some Swedes noticed that their lettuce was glowing in the dark. The leader of the Russians, Gorbachev, got in hot water for keeping quiet for so long, because just a couple of weeks before he had announced to everybody that the Russians were going to get modern and start having more information given out.

Dr. Williams thinks that information is at the center of the entire Russian conflict. Not the type of information you dial when you don’t know somebody’s phone number, but the kind that persons who are really smart give to each other. To give this information to each other, the Russians need lots of computers, but if they get all these computers, then Gorbachev and his buddies are going to lose total control of their people, which they’re not exactly hankering to do.

Another question the Russians got is with this Star Wars plan. I didn’t see how sending plenty of copies of that kiddie movie over there would cause a ruckus, but Dr. Williams said that Star Wars is really a defense plan to keep the U.S. safe from atom bombs by using computers and missiles. Gorbachev kinda likes Star Wars because it makes the Russians all scared so they’ll learn how to use those computers, but at the same time Star Wars might make for a technology war, where they’d finish second in a two-horse race.

The last problem Dr. Williams talked about is a reporter named Daniloff, who the Russians threw in jail for getting them riled. Once again we got two sides of the Russian picture. Gorbachev goes telling people that he wants more common-sense levels of production, elimination of waste and laziness as well as a national chain of computers, then he throws a high-speaking reporter in jail just for doing what he’d get an award for back here. As far as I can figure, this is an example of Russia in a nutshell. On one side of their mouth, they’re talking all progressive and computers, but on the other side they still want the old ways and have their old fears.

Needs your contributions for a revived section displaying Davidson’s art and poetry.