Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Sports

Marshall outplays Davidson Football

By MIKE ADAMS

The Marshall Herd thundered for 35 second-quarter points against a punch-drunk Davidson defense en route to skinning the Cats 63-14
last Saturday at Marshall. Marshall dominated all aspects of the game. They rushed for 306 yards while holding the Cats
to a paltry four. They passed for 256 yards; Davidson had 187 passing yards. They had 28 first downs to
Davidson’s 12.

Davidson was hurt throughout the day by sloppy offensive play. The Cats turned the ball over six times, losing four
out of five fumbles and tossing two interceptions. The Wildcats gave Marshall good field position on their first possession. Davidson
returned the opening kick-off to the 21 and proceeded to lose 11 yards on three plays. Junior Charlie Winborne’s punt
gave the Thundering Herd the ball at the Wildcat 35-yard line. Marshall took only five plays to score, notching the
touchdown on a 15-yard pass after a five-yard touchdown run was called back for a holding penalty.

Defensively, the Wildcats stiffened after the opening score. They forced Marshall to give the ball up on downs on its
second possession and intercepted a pass on the third.

By PAM HARMANN

The Davidson field hockey team ended their regular season play with an excellent effort in a 1-0 loss to High
Point College on Wednesday. Davidson got off to an aggressive start the first half. The desire to play well and
hustle was evident. The connections between the halfbacks and the forwards were smooth. The offense played especially hard in their
half of the field and there were good defensive hits through the midfield to the offense. All in all, the
entire team played well. It was an evenly played half, with High Point working just as hard as Davidson. Davidson
had seven shots on goal while High Point had six. The goalies had three saves apiece.

At the start of the second half, play was mostly in Davidson’s defensive half of the field, with High Point
taking several penalty corners, none of which were successful.

Cross country runs well

By EDWIN PAGE

Last Saturday, the Davidson men’s and women’s cross country teams ran on their new home course for the second time
ever. In a field of four teams, the men placed second behind Duke, and ahead of Wake Forest B-team and
Western Carolina, while the women’s team faced only partial squads from Wake Forest and Western Carolina.

Senior Greg Foreman led the men, running the 8k course in 26:47, his best time of the season and good
enough for sixth place in the meet. Junior Chris Fisher, the Cats’ number one runner for most of the season,
finished second for Davidson and ninth overall with a 27:18. Senior captain Emil Cekada ran his second consecutive strong race,
finishing third for Davidson, and sophomore BillHartman continued to lower his time each race as he placed fourth. Freshman Jay
Clugston finished off the scoring for the men. Although the women faced only partial teams and therefore posted no team
score, the meet provided a good workout for the team members. Freshman Lisa Culbertson, who is running competitively for the
first time this year, came in first for Davidson and third overall. She has cut her time in each race
this year. Junior Morrow Reeves, running well after coming back from an injury, came in third behind Culbertson and junior
Laura Fannin. Both teams are going through lightened workouts this week in order to rest up for their last Southern
Conference Championship meet. The meet begins Saturday at the University of Tennessee-Chattanooga. Neither team has faced much Southern Conference competition
this year, so it is difficult to assess their chances this weekend, but coach Gary Andrew feels good about the
way his teams are looking. "We’re running better races late in the season," he said. "If the men can come
up with their best race, we can catch a few teams and have a respectable showing." "We're as prepared as
we can be," Cekada said. "The only question is whether all our work is enough to overcome the 'talent deficit'
between us and the other Southern Conference schools." The hopes of the women’s team depend heavily on the health of
freshman Missy Willis, who ran very well early in the season, but has been bothered by allergies and a persistent
cold ever since. Andrew called the Southern Conference meet "the highlight of our season."

The Wildcats have an off-day this Saturday. They travel to Furman next week to face a strong Paladin squad which
has tied Appalachian State and Georgia Tech. Davidson’s offense did put together a few good runs down the field at
the beginning of the half, but it wasn’t until later that they truly got it together. The Cats began to
dominate offensively. As the minutes ticked away, play became especially frenzied with both teams trying desperately to score. Unfortunately, High
Point was successful with only eleven minutes to play, and held on to win 1-0. Freshman quarterback Pete Hughes expressed
his feelings on the game: "The score was disappointing. They scored late in the second half. We outplayed them, they
just outscored us." Senior goalie Nana Lay said: "We played really well. We had a lot of scoring opportunities that
we didn’t take advantage of. We dominated the game but they scored an unfortunate goal." The team ends their regular
season play with a 1-11-1 record. They are optimistically looking to next year. Sophomore Elizabeth Franklin feels that "There were
personal improvements every game. I’m very positive about next year since we are such a young team. Everyone will be
more experienced and we will have players back from abroad." This weekend is the Deep South Tournament at High Point
which traditionally concludes the season.

The Herd did not end their scoring blitz in the first half. They also scored on their first possession of
the third quarter. Marshall received the kick-off and returned it to the 35. The Herd then drove 65 yards in
eight plays to run the score to 56-7. Davidson’s offense finally got on the board midway through the fourth quarter.
After Marshall lost the ball on downs at its own 43, senior quarterback Steve Bradley directed the Cats to a
57-yard, four-play touchdown drive capped by a 29-yard scoring pass to freshman Eric Crowley. Marshall added a meaningless touchdown with
28 seconds left in the game after Davidson turned the ball over on a Bradley fumble at the five-yard line,
scoring on a four-yard run.
