Wednesday, March 26, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN 15

Letter reveals Wen’s true spirit
Jane Aurell

On Friday, March 14, a tragic automobile accident claimed the life of one of our fellow students, Tim Wen. We
will always remember his generous smile, sensitivity, and tremendous creative and intellectual talent. The following is a copy of a
letter recently written by Tim to his childhood friend, Samuel. No other words could better capture the essence of Tim
than these, his own. He touched our lives, and we will miss him dearly.

Dear Samuel,

Thank you very much for your note. I have truly been twice surprised. First, I found out that DJ had
moved to Charlotte and, second, I heard that you had visited here. It has truly been a while since we
last met. I once thought that we would always be in the same locality, however, our lives have not turned
out so. I have been going down a path quite different from that which I had led in the past.
It has been beyond my understanding and really it is not for me to understand. One thing I know though,
the Christian life is a very human life.

Ich bin sicher, dass die Geschwister hier in Charlotte Dir schon erzählt haben, wie ich ein halbes Jahr in Europa
verbracht habe. Besides learning German, I received a fascinating education concerning that man which our God has created. And now
I am again at Davidson College. When you come again, which you must, I will show you the campus. It
is strange, but I have never before been at a school where I have had so many “connections.” From the
President of the college to the cashier in the cafe. Such has my life become. Where will it go? I
don’t know.

Only my God who is the Great Shepherd of the sheep knows. As a little sheep who belongs to Him,
I am constantly under His care. That I can truly testify. I hope you don’t find this letter too strange.
But what I have gone through these last two and one-half years has been also most strange. I have some
good news though — my health has been just about fully restored. In other words, I'm fine. I hope we
can meet soon. On my part, I am trying to find a way to come to Anaheim. We'll see what
happens, right? So, take care of my friend and my brother...

In Christus und in der Gemeinde,
Tim
9-6-85

Aurell is a senior political science major from Tallahassee, Florida.

Death is a reminder of the value
Charlie Summers

“So teach us to number our days that we may gain a heart of wisdom.” Psalm 90:12

We have faced death during this week at Davidson. There is a gap in our lives; a hole in our
fellowship. Friends of Tim Wen will be reminded of his absence by an empty seat in the classroom, or at
the computer terminal, by a vacant piano bench, an idle ping pong paddle, or a residence hall door that no
longer bears his name. Others in our community will sense only that we are diminished, one less; like a choir
still singing, but not quite as well. Together we mourn the death of Tim.

But in the tragedy of death, life speaks to us. In the shock of loss, reality demands our attention. Our
days are limited; our time is finite and we do not know our end. “Lord, teach me to value each
day that I may gain wisdom.” Too often we say to ourselves “Someday I will do this or that. When
I get out of college, then I'll take more time for people. Next year I’ll make more effort to talk
with family, to make friends of acquaintances, to join compassionate ventures for those in need. When I get around to
it, I shall spend more time in prayer, savoring the beauty of God's world, listening deeply to the Truth that
comes in silence.” “Lord, teach me to number my days...”

Now is the time to do what is important: to love our neighbor, to listen to a friend, to act
for justice, to give to those in need, to sing for joy at the gifts of God. Today is the
day for us to grow in wisdom. Now is the time for us to discover that living deeply is more
important than the length of days; that loving deeply puts us in touch with the Eternal in the present. We
entrust our friend Tim into the hands of God, whose mercy is from everlasting to everlasting. And from his death,
we receive a gift. Our eyes are opened to the value of each day and to the importance of nurturing
friends like Tim, today. May God's peace in Christ be with us all.

Summers is the college chaplain

Catholicism in the 1980's
Tim Brown

A little more than twenty years ago the Roman Catholic Church, acknowledging and weighing the contradicting forces of reform and
tradition, ushered in an age of theological speculation and experimentation commonly labeled liberation theology. And so now, as the church
seems to have lost some continuity, many express their fear of reform by using figures: the number of priests has
declined by 28,000 since Vatican II, and the number of nuns by 114,000. Many on the other side of the
fence speak well of...Reform and argue that these figures, though sad, are the results of the outside world — of
family breakdowns, of technological advancements, and of economic deprivation. The church finds in Western Europe, namely in France, few Catholics
who attend church weekly, fewer Catholics who can deal with thoughts of sexual morality and virgin birth, and even fewer
Catholics who will accept vocations to the priesthood and sisterhood. Anti-Rome sentiment takes the forms of demonstration and burning of
elaborate effigies of the Pope, all of which he encountered while visiting Holland. Bookstores on the continent give increasingly more
shelf room to paperbacks on liberation theology in the Third World.

In Eastern Europe, the Church grows strong through diversity, especially in Pope John Paul’s own country, Poland, where 1,000 parish
churches are currently under construction. Polish Catholics, believing the church to be the only repository of their history and culture
left, regard and wear the cassock as a political statement. Meanwhile, one-third of Czech Catholics resist the government's remonstrance vigorously
by attending mass weekly.

The goings-on in Asia and Latin America make Rome most nervous. One tall and bulky liberation theologian, Cardinal Aloisio Loscheider,
gives up to six masses a day in the streets of Northeast Brazil and baptizes among waterfalls. Such high-spirited activity
Rome has urged him to end but to no avail. Rome worries over the Church in the Philippines getting too
involved in political trends. Priests and nuns there spoke openly against Marcos and celebrated after he left, protected tenants from
brutal landlords and death squads, and those more adventuresome took up M-16s to fight with the 15,000 Marxist guerrillas of
the New People’s Army.

And in the land of the rising sun and in China, Catholics often marry outside the church. Taking a position
all too ironic, Rome warns that a Catholic should not present offerings before household shrines or burn incense to honor
relatives deceased, even if it is for the sake of courtesy towards his or her non-Catholic spouse and the spouse’s
family. But the People’s Republic of China receives some brownie points since her masses are still said and sung in
beloved Latin.

In Africa, polygamy and unnatural birth control and trial marriages still exist, but Jesus is no longer colored white. That
the heart of Catholicism's future might lie in Africa is nowhere better demonstrated than in the fact that Pope John
Paul II has journeyed there thrice. During one of these visits, he accepted enthusiastically the news that plural marriage was
fading out, and fading fast. He was reminded, too, that the Lord works in mysterious ways when he learned that
this was because multiple wives were becoming too darned expensive, not on account of any efforts of any church.

Two-thirds of Catholics in America ruffle some feathers and speak for me in their support of artificial birth control, married
clergy, and women being admitted to the priesthood. I've often wondered how my priest can sit there and confidently give
counseling on sex to married couples unless he'd made the most of those years prior to taking his vows. America
also has its share of independent-minded bishops, who bypass Vatican bureaucracy and who have managed to speak with a single
voice on such issues as nuclear war and the economy, a voice assuredly listened to by some on Capitol Hill.
As of now, the Church continues to allow for differing ethnic stocks and traditions, and hopes that such diversities foster
a healthy community.

Brown is a sophomore from Mint Hill, NC, and is Opinions Editor of The Davidsonian.

Letters

That goes, when the coaches are left in limbo as to what to tell recruits about what conference they will
be playing in. As the fall of 1987 approaches and our affiliation with the Southern Conference comes to an end,
it appears more and more obvious that whoever made the decision to leave the Southern Conference and try to seek
basketball affiliation elsewhere was a short-sighted one. When the decision was made about football, whoever made that decision should have
also had the details worked out about the conference affiliation of all other sports! We cannot and will not survive
as an independent. Look at how tough it is for Miami of Florida, and how tough it was for the
University of South Carolina! And these are schools with considerably more resources than Davidson has.

I can only conclude in closing that I am an extremely worried alumnus as to the future of Davidson athletics.
I can further state that if something is not done about a conference affiliation, and done quickly, then you will
be effectively destroying what it has taken Coach Hussey years to build: a good, solid program that can recruit well.
Don't keep the alumni in the dark about what is going on as to conference affiliations. Let us know something;
let the coaches of all sports know something; let the recruits know something. The sooner, the better. I hope and
pray that Davidson College athletics will continue to flourish under your hand; I do not wish for you to be
known as the one in control the day Davidson athletics died. If I can assist in any way to help
Davidson College keep its athletic programs afloat and on the high level it has achieved, please let me know.

Sincerely,
John F. Cutchin
Attorney at Law
Class of 1972
