The Davidsonian
Friday, October 31, 1986

Fun and melodrama liven up the stage in Sweeney Todd
By PRISCILLA FAUCETTE

“Obviousness and fun are the key words,” proudly declares Lon Bumgarner, director of Davidson’s fall production, “Sweeney Todd.”

This is an appropriate description of a very humorous and fast-paced show. Sweeney Todd is a spoof-like recreation of “your
favorite melodrama” of the 1890s, complete with pre-show vaudevillian skits, outlandish intermissions, suspenseful piano music, and even authentic signs forbidding
the audience to spit and throw vegetables.

The basic story is simple and well-known. Sweeney Todd, the town barber, also happens to be a greedy and razor-happy
maniac who enjoys killing his customers and an occasional visitor. Eventually, some townsmen get suspicious, and it looks as though
the vicious killer will finally be caught. But not until Sweeney has some more fun. In fact, he ends up
having the last laugh. Of course, this thriller also has love scenes, chase scenes, murder scenes, fights, stolen jewels, ghosts,
music, and mystery. But more than anything else, “Sweeney Todd” succeeds as a comedy.

A motley crew of characters make up the cast. Catherine Norton is wonderful as the prissy, squealing actress, playing the
heroine Johanna Oakley. She even out-coys Lillian Gish. The M.C., Brian Kosanovich, is always hilariously corny and exaggerative. Particularly fine
performances were given by Noel Brewster as the flirtatious and stubborn bakerwoman and by Mark Wright, as the hypocritical, alcoholic
clergyman. Ginger Burke, Mark Engenstrom, and Cameron Dougan are also noteworthy actors. Mac Hardcastle, whose demonic laugh, glaring eyes, and
brilliant overall performance cause the audience to screech almost as often as it laughs.

In summation, “Sweeney Todd” is funny and very fun. Mr. Bumgarner, teacher at UNCC and director for the Charlotte Shakespeare
Company, having directed at Davidson for the first time, adds, “It’s a thrill working with these people. They have become
an absolutely marvelous ensemble.” Kudos go to the director, this ensemble, and Wayne Magruder, stage manager. Although it is quite
long (two and a half hours), it was definitely an enjoyable time. But be prepared for anything; at one point
in the evening, I had a knife at my throat and a crazy man criticizing my sweater! If you want
an entertaining spectacle, which calls for audience participation, skip “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” this Halloween and opt for “Sweeney
Todd” Friday and Saturday nights, at 8 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

Nohow and contrariwise
A pituitary gland, andiron, and Bug boy
The delight and star of the Hodson Hall.
By STEVE MANK

A boy, we’ll call him Johnny, went out on his very first camping trip. After he had hammered in the
last stake and swallowed the last bite of his hamburger, he gathered with the other boys and girls around the
waning fire. “It was a dark and stormy night,” began Pete, the leader of Johnny and his friends. Johnny sat
back and relaxed, little suspecting the scary things he would soon be hearing about.

This scenario has played itself out again and again in the backwoods and backyards of what your humble narrator likes
to call America: Children too young to balance a checkbook listen, some voluntarily, to stories of bloody axe murders and
hideous stabbings and blood-curdling high school proms.

But just what is the campfire story? What is it in the psyche of Americans (and those of other countries,
I assume) that drives them to spin tales of leviathans in lab coats or juggernauts in the jungle? In short,
just what is the campfire story?

There are three different kinds of campfire stories: the thing that comes back from the dead, the possessed thing, and
the incredibly deformed thing. The best way to understand these three different genres is to read an example of each.
So sit back, put your feet up, close your eyes, and be prepared to be frightened out of your little
skull.

The thing that comes back from the dead:
This one is called “the woodchopper’s pituitary.” One day a burly lumberjack was felling a particularly stubborn forest in the
Northwest Territory. Suddenly, Alf, Bob’s burly buddy, came up behind our hero and startled him out of his wits. The
axe flew up into the air and fell again, grazing poor Bob just enough to remove his pituitary gland with
surgical precision. Alf, who was now even more startled than Bob, quickly buried Bob’s big burly body, not even noticing
the still twitching gland as it lay on the ground. The next morning Alf heard a tiny knocking on his
cabin door. A squeaky little voice bellowed, “I want my body.” Alf idiotically threw...the door ajar and let out a
terrible scream as Bob’s resurrected pituitary bludgeoned him to death with a sugar sack. The next day a family was
in the woods on a carefree picnic when, suddenly, they heard a liliputian groan followed by a scraping sound as
if a miniscule gland of some sort were pulling a large sack of sugar. The sound stopped. Father told everyone
to run back to the house. A weencie voice shouted, “I want my body.” Father turned around just in time
to read the expiration date on ten fearsome pounds of Dixie crystals. The same sack quelled the screams of Mother,
Butch, Sis, and Baby, too. While the killing continued, it did, at last, stop long ago. But just the other
day I heard about a man who was murdered in these very woods and around his body they found (significant
pause) sugar.

The Possessed Thing

This one is called “The Ro-si-doing Voodoo Andiron.” Once M’dbai Vngeejie and his clan came from the tropics to vacation
in the woods near here. They went shopping at a convenience store to buy chicken blood and iguana innards when
the man behind the counter said, “Say boy, how come you got a bone through yer nose?” M’dbai couldn't understand
the man but he didn’t like his tone of voice. M’dbai hexed the clerk chanting, “Gweenie-bobeenie hai jooguluch mimp!” That
evening the cash register guy, whose name was Glen, woke up from a disturbed sleep to hear guitar playing coming
from the other room. Glen cracked the door to his cherished C.F. Martin dreadnaught acoustic strapped awkwardly around one of
his andirons. “What the heck are you trying to pull here,” he cried. But the andiron kept playing as if
it could not hear. Suddenly it said, “Now I want you to dance.” At first Glen refused so the thing
broke his d-string. “Okay just you don’t hurt the guitar.” Glen started clogging while his andiron continued to play dissonant
Hell chords. Suddenly, it set the guitar down and killed Glen by lapidation. That very day, the demon strummer went
out on an evil binge of serenading and starting that we can only pray has stopped. Hey what’s that sound?
Must have been the wind — I hope.

The Incredibly Deformed Thing

This one is called “Bruce the Evil Corn Squeezin’s Bug Boy.” There was once a family of hillbillies called the
Hawkes. They were all strong and tough but especially imposing was Bruce. Now Bruce wasn’t like other kids. His body
was mooselike but his head was about the size of a kumquat. He looked a lot like the dome on
the capitol with his head serving as the cupola; but since none of his friends had been to Washington, D.C.
they called him “bug boy” instead. One day the other kids decided it would be fun to get Bug boy
a little tipsy. They told him that if he drank from their jug, he would be able to kill buffalo
with one hand. Bug boy rose to the opportunity even though he could already kill two buffaloes with one hand
— but he was never a bright boy. Bug boy surprised the others by finishing off the whole jug, exchanging
its contents for a proud belch. As Bug boy began to stumble about pathetically all his so-called friends taunted him
mercilessly. The teasing reached its frightening climax when Stevie-Jeff, a particularly loathsome child, put a leash around Bug boy’s waist
(Bug boy had no neck and hardly any head for that matter) and said, “looky here, I got me a
cur-dog.” Bug boy, thinking he had been called a “fir-log,” became enraged. He had a deep empathy for that evergreen
(one might say they were soulmates, as it were) and took offense at the very idea of dropping one down.
Suddenly, the pea-brained behemoth grabbed Stevie-Jeff and shook him until all his limbs fell to the ground. Next, he killed
off the rest of the boys by squishing them into a cantaloupe-sized ball. The screams were chilling. The next day,
the Capras, against whom the Hawkes were feuding, were having a big banquet. Bug boy, now rendered insane by the
liquor, heard the music. Fascinated, he tried to peer in at the festive occasion. Everyone looked so pretty and handsome
and happy. Then he killed them all. He kept on killing folks from this region, developing a special lust for
the blood of people reading newspapers. Say, isn’t that the Capitol building creeping up behind you?

So now that you know what the campfire story is. But why do we tell them? Let’s return to the
story of that boy we call Johnny. After the stories were over, Johnny, a little frightened yet joyful and relieved,
climbed into his sleeping bag. Suddenly, he heard a belch, a guitar, and a squeaky little organ. The next day
his friends found nothing in his bag but a note which read, “Gweenie bobeenie nai jooguluch mimp!”
