Friday, September 26, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Just Words | Cuomo runs by-standing still
Tim Brown

Oedipus, a pimp from Pennsylvania, is about to strut on over to New York when he is stopped by the
sphinx that regulates the Pennsylvania-New York border. The sphinx tells Oedipus that he can enter the state of New York
only if he can answer this riddle: Who has the eyes of a mortician, the hands of a gorilla, the
rhetorical skills of Jesse Jackson, the ancestry of Sylvester Stallone, and a good chance of being nominated the Democratic presidential
candidate in 1988? Quickly and assuredly Oedipus answers, “New York’s Governor Mario Cuomo!” Deeply angered by the correct answer, the
sphinx lets Oedipus enter New York and then jumps from the roof of a brothel to her death.

Currently, at 53, Mario Cuomo is willing to run for president by not running. He has made no official plans
to run for president. When reporters press him about the 1988 presidential election, he dodges their questions and exuberantly claims
that he is having too much fun being governor of New York in 1986 to worry about 1988. Rubbish! Cuomo’s
political friends, such as New York’s Mayor Ed Koch and Senator Joseph Biden of Delaware, convincingly claim that Cuomo has
his mortician’s eyes fixed on the 1988 presidential election and that he intends to use his character, his rhetorical razzmatazz,
and his political record as governor of New York to attain the Democratic presidential nomination.

An Appealing Character:
Mario Cuomo’s character is appealing to many voters for the same reasons Mark Twain’s style is appealing to many readers.
Readers cannot help but like a man who loves his family members, who shows strong ethnic pride, and who displays
a crackling wit. Cuomo says of his father, his role model: “I talk and talk and talk, and I haven’t
taught people in 50 years of life what my father taught by example in one week.”

At a conference of police-union officers earlier this year, Cuomo got into a boiling-hot discussion about the death penalty, which
he passionately opposes. The policemen opened up their steam valves and fervently voiced vengeful opinions in support of the death
penalty. Slowly and carefully, Cuomo revealed that he understood their feelings: “Look, my father-in-law was paralyzed recently by a mugger’s
attack.” He then raised his voice and said that he and his mother-in-law also want revenge, but that they would
rather see the mugger get life in prison without parole. Cuomo’s story and sincerity received “high-tide” waves of applause from
the policemen. Later that day, at the governor’s mansion, Cuomo called his mother-in-law to tell her about his discussion with
the policemen: “Momma, I’ve been talking about you again.” After the phone conversation, Cuomo went outside to play a serious,
aggressive game of basketball with his son Andrew, who is also his chief political advisor.

Cuomo’s ethnic pride is strong and sincere. And by no means is he reluctant to express the feelings he has
for his ancestry, old neighborhood, and old friends to win voters over to his side. A TV commercial continues to
play an important role in Cuomo’s reelection campaign for governor because it softly tugs at the viewer’s heartstrings. The commercial
pictures Cuomo sitting in the Grand Hall at Ellis Island, contemplating some of the innumerable and everlasting contributions that immigrants,
such as his Italian friends and Italian parents, have given to America. After one of Cuomo’s political opponents praised his
combativeness and cool debating techniques, Cuomo modestly admitted that he got his combativeness on the playing fields of his native
Queens, N.Y., and that he picked up some “arguing skills as an arbitrator of neighborhood disputes.”

Many ears and many minds have been delighted by the snap, crackle, and pop of Cuomo’s wit. Cuomo, a Roman
Catholic, was asked how a Christian could ever be involved in the sordid business of politics. Cuomo responded that good
Christians and good politicians care for all people, stress love rather than prohibition, and stress compassion rather than exclusion. Last
March Cuomo took his gubernatorial campaign and his wit to the rough neighborhoods of New York. The news cameras were
rolling and the news microphones were on as Anthony Aubert from Puerto Rico asked Cuomo why the state wasn’t spending
more money on the subways. Cuomo answered Mr. Aubert’s question with a detailed and crowd-pleasing quiz on the mambo dance.

Rhetorical Razzmatazz:
Cuomo jokes that campaigning is the “poetry of politics, while governing is merely the prose.” His repertoire of razzmatazz includes
hyperbole, sarcasm, rhythm, parables, allusions, analogies, symbolism, irony, humor, and the art of invigoration. Cuomo’s invigorating speech temporarily saved the
delegates who were at the Democratic National Convention in 1984 from Walter Mondale, whose rhetoric is as invigorating as a
bottle of Sominex. Also, Cuomo has the ability to think while he is speaking. This ability of his comes in
handy when Cuomo wishes to personalize a generic speech, say, for an audience filled with the likes of Mr. Anthony
Aubert.

Cuomo’s Record:
Though musical trends and political trends seem unpredictable, many Democrats believe that Cuomo’s record as governor could be a number-one
hit among the voters in 1988. New York faced a $1.8 billion deficit when Cuomo took office in 1982. Now,
New York enjoys an estimated $600 million surplus. Republicans know that the surplus is due in part to the nation’s
overall prosperity; but the Democrats grin and realize that Cuomo gets the credit. Cuomo also receives credit for reducing New
Yorkers’ taxes by $3.2 billion, the biggest tax cut in New York’s history. He has pushed hard for fundamental changes
in transportation, education, and welfare. The results? New York's highways have been renovated. New York’s teachers’ salaries have been beefed
up substantially. And New York’s welfare program is supposed soon to institute a “workfare program.” The workfare program would require
that all able-bodied welfare recipients, excluding mothers with dependent children, do work to earn their welfare checks. On top of
these things, Cuomo led a crew of Democrats who, along with many Republican mutineers, torpedoed Ronald Reagan’s tax-reform bill that
would...have eliminated the federal income-tax deduction allowed for state and local tax payments.

Getting Familiar: Statistics present desirable and undesirable facts in black and white. Americans’ familiarity with Cuomo is highest in the
Northeast. Eighty-one percent of Northeasterners know who Cuomo is, and seventy-one percent of those who know him view him favorably.
However, Cuomo’s familiarity rating is just 26 percent in the South, 34 percent in the West, and 35 percent in
the Midwest. True, Cuomo does have a little more time to decide whether he wants to run for president. But
he’d better plan on giving folks in the South, West, and Midwest lots of time to get familiar with his
character, rhetoric, and political record.

Loss of conference not all bad
Bob Cornish

Ever since my arrival at Davidson last year, I have been constantly perplexed about the paradoxes which abound on this
campus. The school itself is one, being the only small, liberal-arts college in the region with a national reputation. A
person is supposedly allowed to “self-select” a fraternity; a definite contradiction of the term. Now that Davidson is being removed
from the Southern Conference, I am confused yet again.

If I were able to vote to keep Davidson in the Southern Conference, from the standpoint of academic integrity I
would have voted to let Davidson stay. East Tennessee State, Marshall, or Western Carolina do not have the national recognition
in scholarship that Davidson does. Certainly, a school such as ours gives the Southern Conference the aura of being a
conference for the quintessential student-athlete. But are the other Southern Conference schools in the same position as us? Of course
not. These schools are Division I schools, for the sole purpose of increasing college revenue. The quality of their athletic
programs is sadly tied to how people enroll in classes and apply for admission. Such schools cannot afford to be
selective on an academic basis. However, almost every school in the Southern Conference has a comprehensive recruiting program for potential
athletes. One special recruit for such a school could mean more applications and more money. Davidson has a comprehensive recruiting
program.

I was shocked when I was informed that there were Davidson coaches looking for athletes near my home. Of course,
all the coaches look at athletic talent. But unlike Marshall or VMI, their coaches don’t have to ask, “Are you
in the top 20 percent of your class and have a score of 1200 on the Boards?” The Colonial League
teams are in similar situations when looking for football players. Though Colgate, Holy Cross, and Lafayette were once schools whose
academic records made any school look good in comparison, they too have realized academic standards. In the future, Davidson will
be a respectable and competitive team in the Colonial League. The opportunity for success is increased solely because the other
schools will be operating by the rules which have dictated the Davidson athletic program for years.

Unfortunately, there is no “Southern Ivy League” of which Davidson could be a member. Many have mentioned the possibility of
competing in the Colonial Athletic Conference, which has such schools as East Carolina, William & Mary, and Richmond. The commissioner
of this conference expressed reluctance about our desired admission. Why would such a conference desire a school such as Davidson?
Would the conference be strengthened by our presence? Is Navy’s David Robinson trembling with fear for his teammates at the
mere mention of the Wildcats? Are William & Mary’s cross-country runners worried about some Davidson guy running the first mile
of the race in 4:30? "A Davidson student would never do such a thing,” you might argue. You're right. A
Davidson student does worse. Shortly before number 12 trampled our fellow student, the Davidson crowd viewing the game stood up
to cheer when the referee was struck on the head with the ball. The referee immediately fell to the ground;
however, this did not quiet the yelps of satisfaction coming from the Davidson stands. After the game, I was thoroughly
depressed. I was convinced at that point that despite our advanced intellect (in which we take so much pride) we
are far from “civilized.” Let us not deceive ourselves — technological and intellectual progress have little to do with moral
progress. We must be aware of this so that we can stop asserting this illusion of civilization and initiate some
soul refinement.

Bilal El-Amine
