Friday, May 2, 1986

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Discrimination against homosexuals narrowminded

Peter Wright

I am writing in response to the article published in The Davidsonian by Grant Morain, “Davidson should not support gay
movement.” I do this with a degree of regret since I have nothing but respect for Grant as a person;
however, I most strongly disagree with his views on this matter. I am not writing to support or criticize the
formation of the committee concerned. I am not gay and therefore feel inadequate in judging the feelings and wishes of
the gay community at Davidson. However, I believe views such as Grant's are dangerously narrowminded and are detrimental to society
as a whole.

Grant begins his argument with an appeal to law and order. North Carolina law states that buggery (male-male intercourse) is
a felony offense; therefore, according to Grant, we should shun and alienate the gay members of our community. I ask
Grant to reflect on his own life and see whether he has been in violation of any laws during his
Davidson career. The serving of alcohol to persons under 19 years of age is an act prohibited by law. Should
the Davidson administration close down all fraternities and eating houses where this abomination is known to occur? My home state
prohibits the sale of alcohol on Sundays. This law was passed in an earlier age when religious doctrine maintained a
strong hold on the policies of the government. The regulation serves no purpose today. It is an outdated document which
does nothing but hinder the freedom of the citizens of the state. However, it also is not controversial enough of
an issue to generate the expulsion of this “blue law.” The North Carolina statute which prohibits buggery and thus the
freedom of gay persons is such a “blue law.” It is behind the times and is not in accord with
the modern understanding of psychology, etc., for many reasons.

“Crimes against nature” obviously means occurrences which will not be found in the natural environment. The use of this term
is self-destructive to the N.C. regulation since many species in the animal kingdom have members that display homosexual activity. Not
only this, but it appears that a biological determinant exists in the causation of same-sex preference. Biological, mind you, does
not necessarily mean genetic. Psychologists have observed that a high correlation exists between emotionally over-stressed pregnant women and the birthing
of homosexual children. Above and beyond this, I wonder how many people feel in control of their affections along heterosexual
lines. Not many individuals I know would say that they consciously plan out to whom they will become attracted.

Finally, I do not intend to argue with biblical quotations; I have found that to be a very fruitless endeavor.
However, I believe that enlightened administrations need to keep policy separate from religion. I have faith that the human mind
is capable of making noble and sound decisions without the crutch of religious doctrine to taint or blind individual perception.
Therefore, I hope all of Davidson College will maintain an open mind and heart in its acceptance of people who
are not along the “norm.” Everyone is different, and as long as their actions do not harm others, they should
not be outlawed. Segregation laws present an example of a society lacking respect for its entire community. They were eventually
defeated and a group of individuals gained new freedom (many years overdue). Let’s only hope that the future will hold
a similar outcome for another minority in our nation.

Wright is a sophomore psychology major from Lexington, KY

Morain’s views on homosexuality outdated

Andrew Yon

Let go, all you Grant Morains of the world. Let go of the pitiful remnants of an archaic societal supposition
— that homosexuality is evil and unnatural. In a changing world, there seem always to be those who cling frantically
to old and regressive ideas. As I recall, there were in the 1950s and 60s some hardcore fanatics — supported
by law for a while — who actually believed that Blacks should not have the same rights that whites have.
What's left of those fanatics marched for their cause on Main Street in Davidson last Saturday. Aren’t we all glad
that society passed them by?!

So here we are today with another issue, sides chosen: those who believe that gay people should have a place
in our society, those who don’t. Fortunately, cities and states are already moving to eliminate anti-gay bias. New York City
last month passed legislation to protect gay people from discrimination in the workplace, and it's my hope that Davidson College
and/or North Carolina will follow this progressive lead. Or rather, do we want Davidson to be on the level of
moral self-righteousness with Campbell, Bob Jones, and Liberty Universities, where we all abide by such institutional standards as: “Let it
be known henceforth and forthwith that the sex act shall not be performed while standing, lest it be construed as
dancing, an act universally recognized as a crime against nature.” Okay, so I exaggerate. The point is that Davidson College
need not adhere to outdated conventions established by heterosexual politicians. This school should instead — as it has been for
the last two and a half years — look for ways to make relevant contributions to society in the future.

On a more personal level, a primary responsibility — if not the primary responsibility — of Davidson College is to
promote the intellectual and social development of its students. If the needs of the gay minority are ignored, then Davidson
will have failed in its responsibility. There are students enduring every day a painful struggle with their sexuality (a struggle
made painful by a hostile environment), who would benefit greatly from a college-backed support group. And much to Grant Morain’s
surprise, a typical meeting would NOT lead from light refreshments to gay orgies. Had Grant attended the panel discussion on
homosexuality of Feb. 10, his ill-conceived notion of homoSEXuality may never have...come to fruition. One last and rather peripheral point...
In light of the fact that oral sex is still considered a “crime against nature” in some states, I doubt
seriously that any of our venerable lawmakers are innocent of being involved at some time in such a hideously criminal
act. You see Grant, some laws were just meant to be broken... and I think we live in a happier
world — indeed, a more satisfied world — for it. Oh my.

Yon is a senior math major from Chelsea, AL

Presenting the Residence Life Office
Tom Jennings

Sometime early in June, when Davidson is in a spot in your brain labelled “storage,” while you are furiously slaving
away at your summer work, and when your blood pressure returns to normal, a familiar place on campus will be
changing its name. We are letting you know now so that you won't be lost (and look like a fall-term
freshman) next year. The Housing Office will be called the Residence Life Office. The change is intended primarily to reflect
the full range of services and duties performed by the Housing staff. “Housing” services include such things as maintenance, keys,
room assignments, housekeeping, furniture, and other administratively oriented tasks. Residence Life includes all of the Housing services and goes further
to include: a staff of students trained in counseling skills, crisis intervention, referral and community building to help other students;
lounge spaces with televisions, video games, and space for informal meetings; social and educational programs designed to foster a sense
of community among the residents of a living area; a resident advisor program to offer leadership opportunities and personal growth
to students; and a commitment to the education of resident students. Davidson's housing operation is already providing these “extra” services
and is committed to community development and educating students on a variety of issues.

Residence Life is more than just a euphemism for Housing. It is a broader term which more accurately describes the
scope of the functions of our operation. The housing functions of the office are not being diminished, nor am I
implying that they are a lower priority. Housing functions are still the base of the pyramid of our responsibilities, and
without a solid base, the rest of the operation would be ineffective.

Residence Life titles began replacing Housing office titles in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Since then, residence life has
become a common term at a majority of colleges and universities. This shift in terminology happened for several reasons. Faculty
members and administrators began to realize, and research supported the idea, that a significant part of a student's personal growth
happens outside the classroom. Colleges began putting more money and staff positions in the student services area, especially in the
residential areas. These new professional staff people began all types of creative strategies for improving students' lives outside the classroom.
The 1950s, 60s, and 70s were periods of intense growth for many schools, so that more housing was created for
students, and more housing staff positions created to manage the increasing number of students.

During this period some other terminology came under scrutiny by college administrators. The words “dormitory” and “dorm” were used for
centuries to describe student housing structures. These structures, and what is provided in them, have changed drastically since the word
“dorm” was first used. Traditionally, dormitories were places to sleep and eat (many had cafeterias in the building) where little
interaction was encouraged and community development was haphazard at best. Recently, some of the “extra” services I mentioned earlier have
helped the residential areas become more comfortable and healthy communities. These areas have become much more than places in which
to sleep.

In September of 1985 there was an article in the Charlotte Observer entitled “Crowded Prisons Plague NC." In the article,
the author, Elizabeth Leland, refers to the housing for the prisoners as dormitories, just as we refer to our housing
structures as dormitories. There is a vast difference between the two structures and the two communities, yet our vocabulary fails
to reflect any difference. A term which more accurately describes our housing structures and the communities within them is “Residence
Halls.” This term is more descriptive and does not carry with it the negative connotations and various meanings of “dormitories”
or “dorms.” The abbreviation of “Residence Halls” is simply “halls.” If the new terms sound cumbersome, check them out; they
have the same number of syllables as the traditional words. The main reasons I suggest that we adopt the “newer”
language are the more positive images associated with the terms and the more appropriate description of our community.

Is this semantical aerobics, or is there a real benefit from the name changes? Consider some of your most vivid
memories at Davidson; many are from classroom experiences, many are from special events on Patterson Court, the College Union, or
elsewhere on campus, and many are from experiences in the residence halls with your friends. Shouldn't a college which promotes,
advertises, and lives in a close-knit community, speak about it in a language which is positive and accurate? If you
are still compelled to call the student housing structures, dorms, that’s okay, we will still understand you. I just want
you to understand the Housing staff when you hear words like residence life and residence halls, as we continue to
try to build a positive environment on campus for our resident students. We haven't gone on a rampage in here.
We still call a key a “key,” and a telephone a “telephone,” so don’t worry about some new language being
spoken when you stop by or call. When you call us and someone says, “Hello, Residence Life Office, may I
help you?,” don’t hang up. It’s the same folks with a new name and a fresh start, we're happy to
help you with your housing questions or your concerns about residence life at Davidson.

See Jennings is the director of housing.
