By MADAME KARMA NORRABI

YAJISHI

ARIES (Mar. 21 — April 19)
Your mate is no longer impressed with your childish pranks and will leave you unless you prove your intellect and win him/her. Your lucky fruit is the mango.

TAURUS (April 20 — May 20)
The fates have dealt you a difficult hand lately, but take heart! With a little cunning, some patience, and a smattering of warning-label music, you can overcome the adversity. Finally, don’t wear your “Hard Rock” t-shirt this week 'cause people are really getting sick of that stuff.

GEMINI (May 21 — June 20)
It is wholly apparent that this marriage is no longer in your best interest! As for your new puppy (kitten, gopher, or bunny), it is in grave peril as a large load of bricks (cement mixer, crack terrorist unit, Jesse Helms) will strike this very week, squishing it. Hey, the stars said it!

CANCER (June 21 — July 22)
Don’t let the fact that your sign is also the name of a horrible disease dismay you. You have books to read, papers to write, and smoking to take up. Trust me. Saturn’s position clearly indicates that you can smoke with perfect impunity for exactly 37 years if you start this week. Finally, don’t attack anyone in any way this week. You'll lose.

LEO (July 23 — Aug. 22)
Affectionate couples may nauseate you this week, but you can easily reciprocate by not bathing. As for your poster collection, don’t forget that the moon is approaching its last quarter, and you know what that means! Oh, and avoid beets. Always good advice.

VIRGO (Aug. 23 — Sept. 22)
That neat little nest egg you've tucked away will be blown completely this weekend... only not by you! Be patient because your Idaho Super Lotto combination of 08-16-32-03-66 will finally come through and millions of potatoes will be yours.

LIBRA (Sept. 23 — Oct. 22)
Giant rabid turnips will attack you in your bed sometime in the wee hours this week. In truth, that mysterious bottle in the paper bag will play a role. Your motto for the week: Drinkest thou with great caution and extreme moderation, lest ye encounter the Fates, who wear blue and drive Cushmans.

SCORPIO (Oct. 23 — Nov. 21)
Family problems will create tension at home, which won’t affect you because you got out. However, that will be of very little significance when the tornado hits. You’ll enjoy improved economic and intellectual standing, but just don’t get cocky... still a few tornadoes left. Your lucky construction implement is the versatile ADZ.

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22 — Dec. 21)
If you forgot that special someone’s special occasion... Oh woe! Fear not, though. Amazing what a car can do. Your fortunes will rise and fall, depending on Mars’ moodiness, then skyrocket. If you want something, seize the opportunity! Lucky hat? The toque. Seriously.

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22 — Jan. 19)
Your affinity for southern rock will land you in trouble four times this week. The alignment of Cornelius, Halley’s Comet, and the London Hard Rock points to big problems in the romance department. Don’t study this week. Any attempts at self-improvement will prove futile. Sell off at any cost.

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20 — Feb. 18)
Your outlook is pretty bleak: That Queenie from last year’s homecoming will come back to haunt you. Although Aquarians interact well with most other signs, they should avoid all human contact this week — hang out in the art gallery to be safe. Chairs, electrical outlets, and food will cause serious harm, so stay away. On the bright side, the stars foretell no debilitating diseases until at least next week. Your lucky body part is the pancreas.

PISCES (Feb. 19 — Mar. 20)
This week will be tense until, finally, you are overcome by a burning desire to slip on some Jordaches and electroplated jewelry and crank up the Wham! Don’t fight it; life is just too short. Your lucky shoe? The left one.

Everyone Welcome!

Announcing All-You-Can-Eat Pizza & Spaghetti Only $2.99!!
Wednesday, Sept. 24 5:00 pm - 10:00 pm

First Union Student Advisory Board
Main St. Davidson

Friday, September 19, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The thinking student's horoscope