The Davidsonian
Friday, October 24, 1986

By MARK CHEN

Confidentially Yours is a French movie. The word “French” can mean different strokes for different folks. The movie is directed
by Francois Truffaut, an acclaimed director of the French New Wave movement in cinema. The word “director” can also send
chills through people’s spines. Put “French” and “director” together, and people begin searching for the exit. Many people assume that
a French director must be responsible for some complex, meaningful, and ultimately boring piece of art. There are plenty of
movies which fit this stereotype, but Confidentially Yours is not one of them. After all, the French are people too,
and they do not enjoy boredom. What the French do like is a fast-paced and action-packed movie that could have
been made by a Hollywood studio. Essentially, that is the kind of movie Truffaut has co-written and directed. The French
title, Vivement Dimanche, reflects this spirit. It translates as "A Lively Sunday.” Everything in the film moves rapidly in the
course of two days and nights.

The movie is most like another one which was shown at Davidson, Jagged Edge. The plot of this movie is
incredibly convoluted. The movie begins with a murder. Julien Vercel goes out hunting at the lake and M. Massoulier is
shot in the head while hunting at the same lake. The rest of the movie is devoted to finding out
if Julien shot Massoulier. Julien returns to his real estate firm and fires Barbara, his secretary. He then finds out
that he is under suspicion for the murder of Massoulier, who was his wife’s lover. When Marie-Christine returns from a
vacation in Nice, Julien challenges her with this affair. She admits to it but has no guilt. At that moment,
the police come and take Julien to the police station, where they ply him with further questions. M. Clements, Julien’s
lawyer, tells him not to worry. When Julien returns home, he finds that his wife has been shot in the
head. At least that is what Julien tells Barbara when he meets her. He asks her to mind the real
estate firm while he goes to Nice and hopes to find out who has killed his wife and Massoulier. In
the meantime, he is hiding out at his office. His plans get changed when he falls asleep and Barbara locks
him in the office. Then she gets a whim and decides to track down the killer in Nice. Both Barbara
and Julien go deeper and deeper into the mystery as leads pop up and disappear. Red herrings travel through this
movie in schools. By the end of the movie, there have been four murders, one suicide, and any number of
likely suspects.

Truffaut has seen a lot of American movies and has loved many of them. The style of Confidentially Yours is
pure Hitchcock, with the humor mixing with and becoming the backdrop for this murder mystery. Truffaut takes a wicked pleasure
in deceiving, misleading, and otherwise leaving the moviegoer in the dark. The plot is like that of The Big Sleep,
a 40s classic directed by Howard Hawks and starring Humphrey Bogart. That movie was almost a parody of the detective
thriller, with one absurd coincidence being piled up on another. Unless you concentrate, you can't really figure out the mystery
or the plot. If you try, the movie goes so fast that it could leave you far behind.

Your guides on the tour make up a good cast. Barbara is played by Fanny Ardant, a famous French actress
who has been in a number of films. She is smart and sleek, the necessary qualities for her role. Julien
is played by Jean-Louis Trintignant. He complements Ardant by being befuddled most of the time, never thinking very clearly or
quickly. They make a strange pair. Ardant is a tall and striking brunette with nice legs. Trintignant is a short,
balding, and dumpy-looking Frenchman. Probably the matchup is the result of fantasizing by Truffaut, who happens to be short and
bland.

There is a flaw in Confidentially Yours. This flaw comes back to its French manner and style. Pardonnez-moi for American
patriotism, but I don't think the French do a movie in the Hollywood style as well as an American. Truffaut
does not go all-out to make great trash in the tradition of Miami Vice. Instead, his lively intelligence keeps the
movie from ever acting serious about its ridiculous plot. You always suspect that there is a smirk on the actors’
faces when the camera is...off. In that respect, the movie is French. A French director cannot completely give himself up
to mindless fun. So, you may ask, is it oui or non? Should I see this movie or not? My
advice depends on what you're looking for. If you want Ingmar Bergman, a GREAT DIRECTOR, my advice is no. Sometimes
the characters in Confidentially Yours philosophize, but those moments are as brief as soap bubbles. The plot is so complex
that it could give you a headache. My advice is to forget the plot and go along for the ride.
If you sit back and just watch, you should have a good enough time. Confidentially Yours is subtitled and will
be shown tomorrow night at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Senior Woodie Cornelson representing the “delicate yet decadent women of Rusk” at homecoming.

By STEVE MANK

Field hockey should be very popular. For one thing, all the players carry hard, heavy, yard-long sticks and use them
to fight for a little stone-like ball that frequently bustles through the air at upwards of 90 miles an hour.
In other words, it has everything you need for a really good tumble. For another thing, all the players wear
skirts. What these add up to is all the potential violence of a pro football game (without those wimpy pads,
of course) AND the cheerleaders on-field. What more could the over-active, under-used male libido, which is typically well-represented at sporting
events, want? But field hockey is just not that popular. Perhaps this is because people just don't know the sport
very well.

As I arrived at the field, the two teams were engaged in certain pre-game exercises. One consisted of two players
slowly batting the ball back and forth at about forty feet's distance. This little workout, which I later discovered is
called “50 one-time hits,” is about the least grueling preparation I've seen for a varsity event. As the game began,
it becomes immediately obvious that this is like no other sport. The major clue is that much of the shouts
from the fans concern aesthetic matters rather than, say, winning or losing. One Davidson fan called out, “We dress nicer!”
A Wake Forest (they were the opponents) fan later called out, “Our skins are nicer!” While the crowd was large
(well over 20), they were polite and did not break into the riot I had assumed such a rabble of
fashion epicures would love to have.

As one watches and hears the clack of sticks clenched in the bloodthirsty conflict, thoughts invariably turn to the nature
of the heritage of the sport. While field hockey is very similar to soccer, I believe its beginnings lie in
two different areas.

1st Athlete: Say guys, let's play polo.
2nd Athlete: But we don't have mallets.
1st Athlete: That's okay, we can use our grandmothers’ canes instead.
2nd Athlete: But we don't have horses.
1st Athlete: That's okay, we can use cleats instead.

Thus began the great sport. Yet field hockey always had to contend with the fact that it just was not
football. Here are some differences:
- When a player's mom shows up, the whole team is anxious to meet her and courteous to boot.
- If you start to lose, you can still take out a few of your opponents and have fun doing
it.

This last one is Heather's specialty, though she'll never admit to it. Heather is the team captain and her last
name is McKee. Every time the ball comes to her, she casually sets up the shot and then whacks the
Hell out of the mother. In one beautiful shot, Heather downed a Wake Forest player with a ball to the
groin or thereabouts. But Heather claims she is not that bad: “I broke one girl's arm and injured two.” Teammate
Tyler Smith has a different story to tell, “She lies. She broke one girl's hand and has injured at least
one girl in each game.”

All this should make field hockey very well-liked. But few people attend the home games and only one follows the
group. So how do we MAKE people go to field hockey games? My proposal is threefold:
1) Put the games in the stadium and sell beer and hot dogs and little plastic Heathers with bobbing heads
there.
2) Make a Wildcat Shuffle or Stickmania video featuring the whole zany team cavorting in their red tartan skirts and
simulated wildcat pawprint facial tattoos.
3) Put razor-sharp steel tips on the end of their sticks.
