Friday, October 3, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Otts lecturer explores roots of Christianity
By JIM DILLON

Wayne Meeks, professor of religion at Yale University, gave a series of lectures on “The Origin of Christianity: A New Look at an Old Puzzle” as the 1986 Otts lecturer last Monday.

In his morning lecture, “Jesus and Other Messiahs,” Meeks suggests that Jesus was in his own time regarded merely as a prophet rather than as a messiah and gave evidence from the Dead Sea Scrolls supporting his idea. The concept of Jesus as the messiah is, according to Meeks, a notion that came about after this period.

Meeks gave the example that in his time Julius Caesar too was regarded by many as a messiah and stated that it is not until time has passed that such a term can appropriately be placed on an individual.

In the afternoon lecture on “Christianity and Other Cults,” Meeks attempted to identify the chief characteristics separating Christianity from other sects of Judaism, noting that Christianity failed as a sect of Judaism and quickly distinguished itself as an entirely distinct religion in itself. The purpose of a sect, according to Meeks, was to “convert or replace the tradition over which it has defined itself.” Most cults disappeared once reconciliation with Judaism over such an issue occurred, said Meeks. He noted “clear differences” aside from obvious differences in doctrine and belief that distinguished Christianity as a distinct religion rather than simply another cult of Judaism. Christianity, he said, is not based on a “single ethnic root in the sense of common immigrant heritage” whereas most other cults were largely ethnic groups having common problems with traditional religion.

Meeks further noted the lack of tolerance on the part of Christians toward other cults. This intolerance, according to Meeks, the Christians shared with traditional Jewish contemporaries and not with any other cults. Christians were also similar to the Jews in their advanced system of trans-local organization, allowing them to maintain communications across large areas, and this, he said, Christians did even better than the Jews. “There seems to be nothing like Christian interhuman organization just as there is nothing parallel to that mission itself,” Meeks said.

Christianity was initially fundamentally different from the Jewish faith in the sense that it was a “philosophical school” which placed many more demands on its participants than a cult did, said Meeks. Meeks noted in closing that it is the duty of the Christian historian to search for truths in what can be learned of the past and that much can be learned of Christianity in what it had in common and what was unique about the religion.

Introductions of new faculty continue
By AARON LEVINE

William Corlett

One of the new members of the faculty this year is political science professor William Corlett. Graduating from Allegheny College in Meadville, Pennsylvania with a B.A. in political science in 1972, and then earning his M.A. and Ph.D. at the University of Pittsburgh in 1978, Corlett has gone on to an assistant professorship at Bates College in Lewiston, Maine, where he has been for the past five years. Presently on a one-year sabbatical leave, Corlett has been picked for a one-term stint at Davidson for the fall term, teaching two of Dr. Brian Shaw’s courses. Corlett has found Davidson to be a very friendly town, and praises the student body as “well-prepared and willing to participate in class.” He warns that all liberal arts colleges have their strengths and weaknesses and it is unfair to compare one to another. A Pennsylvania native, born in Harrisburg, Corlett enjoys running—especially on the college’s cross-country circuit—biking, camping, and literary criticism.

Vikram Kumar

One of the new professors with the Economics Department is Vikram Kumar. Kumar, working on a graduate degree in economics at Vanderbilt, comes to Davidson on a two-year stint, having heard from one of his professors that Davidson needed a man of Kumar’s background. Kumar’s specialty is in international economics and international development, and macroeconomic trade development. This term he is teaching an Economics 101 section and a course on International Economics. Kumar has high praise for the students as “sterling” and the faculty as “dynamic,” praising the “orientation to research.” He feels that a great deal has been done to make him feel at home. Holding strong opinions on teaching, Kumar states “a teacher can do all he wants, yet rises to the level of the students.”of student’s incompetence.” Students and teachers have to work together to meet the objectives of the course: “Teachers need to be vibrant thinkers, buffers to the outside world for students.” Kumar maintains: “Open-mindedness is the single most important criteria in the field of learning.”

A native of Delhi, India, Kumar received his B.A. from St. Stephens College of Delhi University in 1980 and his M.A. from the Delhi School of Economics. Kumar loves to write poetry, paint, and listen to classical music, jazz, and the “hard rock” sound of Led Zeppelin and Pink Floyd.

By TOM MOORE

Bruce Gillingham

While filling in for biology professor Verna Case, who is on sabbatical, Bruce Gillingham has found that Davidson students are by and large “reasonably bright, polite, and reasonably motivated... although they are quite happy to be lazy.” Gillingham received his B.S. in biology from Virginia Tech, an M.S. in zoology from the University of Montana, and his Ph.D. in biology from the University of Illinois. His admittedly small sampling of students (less than 20) has also left him with the impression that Davidson’s are “pretty good students.” He is looking for a career in teaching beyond his year here, but thinks that in many ways his short stay here “is better than a permanent job in someplace I'd rather not be.”

Kurt Corriher

Kurt Corriher ‘69 has strong roots in the Davidson community. Born in Mooresville, Corriher took his Davidson degree to Chapel Hill, where he received his Ph.D. in German Literature. He returned to Chapel Hill to get a Master of Fine Arts degree in drama. Corriher lived for several years in California before he and his wife “decided that we did not want to spend the rest of our lives there” and moved back to within 20 miles of Davidson in 1984. Before coming to teach his German class here, Corriher worked as a technical writer for corporate and public relations clients and has begun a public policy column for the Charlotte Observer, which he expects to appear at least once a month. Although there are rumors that he is based on the first floor of Chambers, Corriher’s office is “off the beaten path a bit, but convenient to the snack bar” in the basement of the Union.

To: Davidson Faculty, Staff, Students, and Friends
From: Davidson Amnesty
Re: Death of the son of Veronica DeNegri

We at Davidson are fortunate to know Veronica DeNegri. While she was in Chile, Veronica was detained and brutally tortured for her activity in Chile. Amnesty International worked for her release. Upon her release, she settled in the U.S. She has worked tirelessly for human rights. Through Davidson Amnesty, she came to Davidson last year. She has done public speaking throughout the U.S. and has represented AI’s concerns in many forums.

This summer came the news that her son was attacked by army forces on July 1, which resulted in his death. Ms. DeNegri needs our help. Her son, Rodrigo Andres Rojas, age 19, went with a group of about 60 students to the shanty towns outside of Santiago, Chile. The group was demonstrating when an army patrol arrived. The students fled. One of the students, Carmen Quintana, age 18, fell and Veronica’s son returned to help her. At this point, government police began beating the two and threw gasoline on them and set them on fire. It was not until the next morning when the two were discovered by the mayor in the town of Quilicura about 10 a.m. that they were taken to a hospital and given medical care. Information about the transport is unclear. Because of his injuries, Veronica’s son was unable to speak. The other student relayed what had happened. Two-thirds of his body was burned, and most of his face and respiratory system was destroyed. Ms. DeNegri left for Chile on July 3 to be with him. He died the following day.

While AI is learning more about what the organization might do, you, in your personal capacity, may be able to help Veronica by sending her a check. She needs financial assistance at this time. Her address is: Veronica DeNegri c/o Isabelle Lettelier 1901 Q St. NW Washington, D.C. 20009.