Friday, January 17, 1986

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Townshend comes clean in White City

By LEE EICHELBERGER

Pete Townshend is back with a brilliant film/mini rock opera and album: White City. Here, he finally resolves problems that
have plagued him since becoming a rock star; specifically his self-obsession and self-destruction. White City is a London housing project
that the British government created in the 1930s as an idealistic community for the “New British,” but in the ’80s
it has become what amounts to a ghetto. Townshend has cast himself as Pete Fountain, a pretentious rock musician whose
world-famous group ‘Deep End’ has recently broken up (sound familiar?). Fountain comes to White City to recover a “bit of
his roots.” This is about the extent to which the liner notes explain the situation. I suppose that it’s necessary
to see the film to make a lot of sense out of it. But behind Townshend’s muggy concept lies a
solid album of strength and passion.

Recording for the first time since 1982's All the Best Cowboys Have Chinese Eyes, Townshend has assembled an impressive band
including Big Country’s experienced rhythm section of Tony Butler and Mark Brzezicki. Former Pink Floyd guitarist Dave Gilmour rounds out
the list, playing and co-writing the title track with Townshend. The album starts out strong with “Give Blood,” which despairs,
“you may find that blood is not enough.” Fortunately, Townshend avoids the sly cynicism of Cowboys when he concludes, “so
give love and keep blood between brothers.” Yet while Townshend has put his romanticized depression behind him in the gem
“Brilliant Blues”; “The brilliant blues / Will never flow this way again / The color of the river is gray,”
his hopes are materialistic and strangely empty, “It’s time to give / So don’t betray me, pay me.” But by
“Face the Face,” it is evident that Townshend’s alcoholic haze has evaporated into a clarity and passion that leaves the
ears ringing with Brzezicki’s insistent beat. Townshend realizes his need to face himself (‘Face the Face’) with the realities of
the non-rock world. Since, “the pursuit of heroism, success, and homecomings had given Pete nothing.”

“Hiding Out” describes a cityscape in terms of Townshend’s own loneliness against a mechanical beat; “I look over chequered fields
/ And the towering web of steel / Young and old will sit and judge unfeeling / I am safe
— hidden here.” This side’s standout though is the bluesy and chilling “Secondhand Love” (“I want my defenses laying in
your hands / I don’t want your secondhand love”). Finally, Townshend’s despair is resolved in the album's musical and lyrical
centerpiece, “White City Fighting.” Intricate guitar work by Gilmour and Townshend's beautifully layered harmonizing highlight the track. Perhaps Townshend's hiatus
from rock prompted the examination of his inner struggle that fueled his albums since 1966; “The White City / I
finally grewOn the minds of the public, Giduz said that to the public, "a measure of success seems to be
how often your name is mentioned." The spots may not directly influence people to give money to the college or
send their children here, but indirectly they enhance the image of the college, he added. Radio stations use the spots
to fill out their news broadcasts. The spots are not so much hard news as they are human interest stories—an
interesting "chaser" for the news. So far, response has been good. Fifteen stations have been using the spots. The N.C.
News Network also picks up the spots, which expands the number of stations that get the spots by 87. Giduz
sent out the 40-second news spots to stations all over North Carolina. The stations vary in size and format. Rock,
country, soul, and religious stations get the spots. Top stations like Charlotte’s WBCY and Raleigh’s WPTF carry the spots as
well as smaller ones like Salisbury’s WSTP. All of the stations have substantial commitments to news broadcasts.

The first news spot concerned Dean Rusk’s visit and speech at Davidson’s Fall Convocation. That spot was picked up by
Georgia stations in Athens and Atlanta. Rusk comes from the area around Athens. Another spot focused on the retirement of
North Carolina’s oldest practicing physician, J.B. Woods, who lives in Davidson. For this release, Giduz made a special five-minute report
that was picked up by the national RKO news network. A conversation with N.C. Gov. Jim Martin ’57, a former
patient of Woods, highlighted this spot.

Giduz, whose interest in radio started in high school with a school news spot he produced, said he is enthusiastic
about the spots. He called them: "a great medium. It’s a field Davidson hasn’t explored before, and I’m convinced it
helps." Giduz says the radio format is more accommodating; it gets news out fast. He can send a spot to
a station over the phone and have it broadcast that day. Giduz explains that the actuality of a voice on
the radio is more likely to grab interest than a corner in a newspaper. Giduz has also used students’ voices
on the spots. Before Christmas break, he made a spot about Davidson students going home. He stood in the hall
and asked students what they wanted for Christmas.

The spots are hard to make. "Jamming a report about Dean Rusk into 40 seconds is challenging," Giduz said. The
task is complicated by the fact that he likes to do high-quality work. He said he sometimes spends one hour
on a spot, but for others, he has spent five hours trying to get it right. He believes the high-quality
spots make Davidson look good. Giduz plans to continue producing the spots. The administration allows him to use 25 percent
of his time on the spots. He does not get any extra money for them, but WDAV radio has helped
him and let him use their equipment. Giduz said he is proud of the spots. "Radio is an untapped publicizing
source for colleges—no others produce spots regularly."

HAPPY B-DAY MOTI! (... the Soooosh Major with immovable hair) P.S. Have fun loafing with S.H. at the b---h.

DID YOU KNOW That Advertising in The Davidsonian Is Both Inexpensive and Effective? Fraternities Can Advertise Big Parties. You Can
Advertise Your Friends’ Birthdays... The Possibilities Are Endless!

Exciting summer job for college students and faculty. Summer Camp needs Counselors in tennis, hiking, rock climbing, waterskiing, sailing, kayak,
canoe, crafts, woodshop, windsurfing, etc. Salary includes room and food. Reply NOW to: Ben C. Cart, Box 100, Cedar Mt.
N.C. 28718 or call at (704) 884-5388 for an application. Male and female staff openings!

To Place An Ad:
1) Send it to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson N.C. 28036.
2) Call The Davidsonian at 892-2000 ext. 148.
3) Contact John Elster (Advertising Manager).

All ads must be received by the Tuesday before that Friday’s issue.
