Friday, October 17, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Grandparents in town enjoyable for students
By NELLE MCCORKLE

Five current Davidson students arrived with a constant chocolate-chip cookie source, a backyard full of leaves waiting to be raked, and a fond familiar advisor, all within blocks of the campus. These students attend college in the town where their grandparents live.

Having grandmother’s presence here helped attract senior Whitney Montgomery to the college. “When I was a little kid, it used to be great to come down to Davidson and play on the campus. I was here a lot when I was little, and now it’s neat to be able to come down here and go to school and visit Grandma,” Montgomery said.

Unlike other Davidson grandchildren, Montgomery lives with his grandmother Mrs. H.E. Fulcher. She said of the arrangement, “It’s mighty nice — I’m getting on in years. He’s so willing to wait on me and run errands for me. He’s just a fine fellow. He’s very attentive.”

Montgomery, who refers to his grandmother as Rosie, said, “She’s a wonderful lady — always a lot of fun. She gives me a lot of grief about my clothes... Even my mother doesn’t do that! Senior Edwin Douglass, who everybody knows is a crispy big fellow, came over here one time in khakis. I came down the stairs in jeans. Rosie turned to Edwin and asked him if I was dressed appropriately for the occasion — we quickly departed.”

Earlier this week, Montgomery came in wearing tattered blue jeans late at night after working on a paper. The next morning, he found that his grandmother had his pants folded on the stairs, repaired.

Montgomery returns to his grandmother’s house each day for lunch. “She cooks a lot for me, and a lot of my friends like to come over, for which I don’t blame ‘em, ‘cause it’s good food,” he said.

According to retired religion professor George Abernethy, grandfather of sophomore Tim Poston, “Success in getting along with your grandson is not to see too much of him.” Abernethy said, “The hope of a grandparent in the college is that he won’t embarrass his grandson — the reverse may be true too.”

Remembering an early encounter of Poston’s with the setting he later chose for college, Abernethy said, “When he was about seven years of age, he visited us in Davidson. He and I walked together to the post office. It so happened that everyone we passed that particular day called me by name. Even some people waved to me from cars. He said to me, ‘Grandpa, do you know everyone in this town?’ I assured him I didn’t know everybody. It’s useful for anyone at Davidson, not just grandchildren, to talk to people in the post office.”

Another Davidson grandparent, Mrs. James B. Woods Jr., said of having a granddaughter in the student body, “It’s wonderful. It gives me a very personal lift to have her dropping in... It keeps me in touch with the students and brings me new friends, her friends.”

“I remember when Tony [Dick ’85] first came it made me realize my age — I couldn’t believe I was the grandmother to Davidson students when for so many years I’d been the mom.” Woods spoke of the “joy of companionship of a family member” provided by her granddaughter’s closeness. She also said, “It gives me the opportunity to meet more wonderful Davidson students.”

Several grandchildren emphasized the advantages of immediate proximity to home cooking. Sophomore Elizabeth Dick, Woods’ granddaughter, said, “Let me just say that it is wonderful to get homemade brownies that can spoil one’s dinner.”

“You can always go home for a home-cooked meal,” sophomore Bob Davidson said. Grandson of Dr. and Mrs. Chalmers Davidson, he noted, “You can always look to them if you’re in trouble.”

Senior Andy Clark mentioned another advantage of attending college in his grandmother’s town. He said of Marjorie McCutchan, “Instead of seeing her twice a year, I’ve gotten to see her much more regularly. We’ve gotten to know each other a lot better.”

Nohow and contrariwise - Fame and fortune on Bucks Aplenty
Ottoman: That’s great! Do you know the rules?
Champion: I sure do!
Ottoman: Then let’s play! Now let’s meet our challenger!
Our Challenger: Hello, Pinch!
Ottoman: Do you know the rules?
O. Challenger: I suredo! Party? Ottoman: Then let’s play! But first, the Champion: Um... incredibly suave Wren Fiskerbeater, will——

Contestant: Now Pinch--do you mean tell you what you could win! What was the Boston Tea Party?

Ottoman: Hello, Bambi!

Squid: Hello, Pinch!

Ottoman: Contestants, our first question is this: What was the Boston Tea Party?

Champion: Um...

Contestant: Can you repeat that, Pinch?

Ottoman: What was the Boston Tea—

Contestant: I... damn!

Ottoman: I’m sorry, that is incorrect! Let’s meet our next guest!

Next Guest: Hello, Pinch!

Ottoman: Hello! Why don’t you tell us a little about yourself!

N. Guest: Pinch, I’m an earnest columnist for a small but noble college newspaper and I really couldn’t come up with an idea for an article this week!

Ottoman: Well, maybe this show will give you a few good ideas! Because this is Bucks Aplenty! The show where we’re giving away fame and fortune!

By STEVE MANK

(Merry, jumpy, more-money-than-you-can-imagine music blurts out of the tiny speaker as the frenzied audience cheers for fame and fortune)

The Incredibly Suave Wren Fiskerbeater: (off screen) You want cars? We got ’em! You want furs? We got ’em! You want boats, homes, fabulous vacations, and dinette sets? We got ’em! You want fame and fortune? We got ’em! And more!

Fiskerbeater: Pinch, today on Bucks Ap—

Champion: Um... good ideas!

Ottoman: Then let’s play! The first question is when did the—

Champion: 1776!

Ottoman: Right! Now for our next question: Where did the—

Challenger: Williamsburg, Virginia!

Ottoman: Well, we have a new Champion! Tell us a bit about yourself.

New Champion: Pinch, I’m an insurance salesman!

Ottoman: I’m sorry! The question goes to our champion. What was the Boston Tea Party?

Champion: Um...

Ottoman: Well, that’s too bad, but your luck might change because now it’s time for our win-a-heapa-dough round! Okay contestants, here’s your question: What—

Guest: Mohorovic discontinuity!

Ottoman: That’s right!

Champion: I sure am, Pinch!

Guest: Neato!

Ottoman: Bambi, are you ready to give away fame and fortune?

Squid: I sure am!

Ottoman: Then let’s play! You’ll have thirty seconds. GO!

Champion: Sponge.

Contestant: Volvo.

Champion: Marlon Brando.

Contestant: Bombay.

Champion: Prehensile tail.

Contestant: Kleenex.

Champion: Lawn care products.

Contestant: What?

Ottoman: Then let’s play! But first let’s check in with the loquacious Miss Bambi Squid!

Squid: Hello, Pinch!

Ottoman: Good evening and welcome to Bucks Aplenty, the game show where in one night you can win fame and fortune! Now let’s meet the loquacious Miss Bambi Squid!

Squid: Good evening, Pinch!

Ottoman: Good evening, Bambi!

Squid: Good evening, Pinch!

And then I woke up.

Depository Libraries... Your Source Information from the Federal Government—available at more than 1,380 Depository Libraries throughout the United States.