Volume LXXV, Number 15
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Anonymous flyers
By TREEBY WILLIAMSON

Early Tuesday morning, signs urging freshmen males to “not be misled” by joining Kappa Sigma were hung in Belk dormitory.
In addition, flyers were placed under each freshman room in Belk. The poster, put up anonymously, asks “How much do
you really know about Kappa Sigma?” and warns “Do not pass up a sure thing for a misguided hopeless idea.
Play it safe and self-select this week, take advantage of your options.”

At Tuesday’s SGA meeting, Freshman Class President Bill Sutton brought up the issue as a freshman concern. He said the
freshman class disapproved of the fact that the posters were put up and distributed. SGA Vice-President Christie Johnson said many
houses and individuals have been accused, but presently, these accusations are unfounded. The SGA, according to Johnson, “does not feel
it’s our place to reprimand; however, we do act as a forum to air student complaints. We would like the
person responsible to come forward immediately.”

Sutton echoed Johnson’s statements in stressing that he will continue to pursue this issue in order to determine the responsible
party or parties. He also plans to heed the advice given by the SGA to speak to Dean Terry and
the Patterson Court Council about the incident. Sutton said he feels such an act is “an attack on freshmen” and
said it may negatively affect the self-selection process because accused houses may lose people who believe the rumors are true,
undermining the entire self-selection process. Kappa Sigma interest group co-chairman Andrew Henderson defended the organization. “By no means or method
does anyone in the Kappa Sigma interest group...

Armed robber threatens residents
By DAVID WILLIAMS

A man with a loaded gun robbed a Davidson professor and a bank custodian at the post office last week,
according to Davidson Police Detective J.F. Ferrell. On Sunday, Jan. 25 at 7:30 p.m., Spanish Professor Lois Kemp parked her
car in front of the Davidson post office. “While inside the post office, she noticed a black male standing near
the table,” Ferrell said. Kemp returned to her car and proceeded to get in when the man showed her the
gun and demanded her money. “I gave him no indication that I would resist,” Kemp said. She unlocked her car,
removed her purse, and gave it to the gunman. The man looked through her purse and was unable to locate
her money. Kemp showed the man the location of approximately $70 in her purse. Kemp said later that she asked
the gunman if she could have back her purse, as it contained her credit cards and identification. The man took
the money, gave Kemp back her purse, and fled north down Jackson Street. Kemp went immediately to the Davidson police
department and filed a report. “A search of a ten-block area revealed nothing at that time,” Ferrell said.

On Thursday, Jan. 30 at 6:45 p.m., Davidson resident Margaret Wylie, 25, on Saturday, Feb. 1, while Wylie was in
a vehicle. Wylie was charged with two counts of armed robbery, and was taken to the Mecklenburg County Jail and
put under $15,000 bond by Magistrate Wolf. “At this time, we also found 11 other outstanding warrants against Mr. Wylie
— ten being from another county,” Ferrell said. Wylie could face a sentence of anywhere from seven to 40 years
for armed robbery, under North Carolina state law. Concerning her robbery, Professor Kemp said: “It was all over so fast.
I thought he had a toy gun, and this helped me keep my cool.” Kemp said that the suspect later
testified that he was carrying a loaded gun. She added: “I am glad I had enough money to give him.
Thornburg was emptying trash in the garbage dumpster...

Women’s
By DAVID WILLIAMS

A panel discussion Monday on “Women in Poverty and Development” and a one-woman play Tuesday night entitled Sister, Sister highlighted
a number of programs sponsored for Women’s Week by the Women’s Concerns Committee. On Monday, Professors Janet Grigsby and Leslie
Hill-Davidson discussed the problems of women in poverty in the United States and in the international community. Grigsby talked about
the plight of poverty-stricken women in the United States. She said, “Female-headed households have a higher chance of being poor.”
Grigsby said that this factor has two causes — “the increase in the divorce rate and the increase...Behind the post
office, a black male with a gun robbed her of her purse and $300. Thornburg’s description of the gunman “fit
the same description as the one of the man that robbed Ms. Kemp only days earlier,” Ferrell said. “Through further
investigation by the Police Department, a black male fitting the description that she gave was picked up for an investigation
and an interview,” Ferrell said. Ferrell arrested Davidson resident Roy Antwan. At this point, I realized that money is nothing
more than pieces of paper.” Detective Ferrell encouraged women to take measures to prevent such incidents from occurring. He said,
“Our suggestion is that any time a female goes anywhere at night, she should be accompanied by someone else —
a male or female.”

Kemp also expressed her concern that the members of the Davidson Community discuss what they can do to limit their
vulnerability. “This can happen any place. It has happened many places before,” she said. Kemp added: “We like to have
access to the post office at any time, but it’s easy for someone to loiter there, waiting for the right
person to assail. It's important that we know it can happen in Davidson and to know how we in the
community can make ourselves less vulnerable.”

Week examines diverse lifestyles in teenage pregnancy, coupled with the increase in the number of teenage mothers who start a
household. Grigsby said that upon becoming divorced, “women generally don’t get half of what they had when they were married.
Yet typically women get custody of the children.” Grigsby noted that ex-husbands typically do not pay the necessary alimony and
child support. She said: “One recent study found that half the fathers ordered to pay child support actually paid. In
our society, paid child support is considered voluntary. It’s a cultural situation.”

“The other big issue,” Grigsby added, “is what the woman is actually able to pull in the labor force.” She
said: “Women earn less in their jobs than men do. The figure used to be 59 percent, and now it’s
64 percent. The major reason they do earn less is that women and men work in different jobs. Women are
much more concentrated in a particular set of jobs. These are relatively low-paying jobs.”

Hill-Davidson commented on the problems of women in the developing world. She said that while women comprise about fifty percent
of the world’s population, “women do two-thirds of the world’s work and provide sixty percent of the world’s food.” However,
she added, “Women own less than one percent of the world’s property.”

On Tuesday night, actress Vinie Burrows performed solo in the play Sister, Sister! Burrows, a Harlem native, portrayed the role
of the woman in a variety of lifestyles and settings. In the invocation to the play, Burrows chanted: “There are
more than 2 billion women on this earth. Will they come together in friendship and in peace — saying, ‘Sister,
take your sister's hand?’”

Burrows first acted out the role of a pregnant woman in labor and giving birth. She then portrayed “An Ole
Hillbilly.” She also performed as a daughter rebelling against her mother and as the victim of a horrible rape. Burrows
concluded her performance with an appeal for women’s liberation and reenacted a speech given by South African dissident Winnie Mandela.

Melissa Jones, Chairperson of the Women’s Concerns Committee, said that she has been planning Women’s Week since last summer. The
Week's purpose, she said, is “to promote awareness of women’s issues on campus.” She added: “Women's Week is a new
tradition that was started several years ago. We try to reach everyone we can through pictures and publicity. We are
trying to involve as many students as we can.”

Feminism: Homosexuality: Coming out of the closet at Davidson. Pages 13
Lambert responds to responses. Page 15
