The Davidsonian
Friday, October 17, 1986

Speed crucial factor in 27-7 loss to Bucknell

By MIKE ADAMS

The Bucknell Bisons out-ran a mistake-prone Davidson football team to take a 24-0 halftime lead en route to beating the Wildcats 27-7 at Richardson Stadium last Saturday. Speed was a crucial factor in the Bison win. Bucknell has it; Davidson does not.

Bucknell quarterback Jim Given, one of the best in Division I-AA, was able to rack up 238 yards in passing in the first half because his receivers consistently out-ran the Davidson secondary. Given’s passing was essential to the win. The Wildcat defense bottled up the Bucknell rushing game after the Bisons’ first drive. On that drive, the Cats surrendered 49 yards rushing on just seven carries, including a 17-yard touchdown run on which it seemed that every Davidson defender missed a tackle.

The Wildcats answered Bucknell with a nice drive of their own, but a crucial mistake at the end prevented a Davidson score. Davidson started at its own 41-yard line and quickly got a first down on a nine-yard pass from senior quarterback Steve Bradley to freshman Shan Teel and a two-yard run by junior Aaron Edwards. After an incomplete pass, the Cats gave their first demonstration of their relative lack of speed. Senior Mike Jones caught a swing pass and looked for a second as if he might go in for the score, but Bison defenders dragged him down at the 17-yard line. “I reached back for something extra,” said Jones, “and it just wasn’t there.”

With a first and 10 situation at the Bucknell 17, Davidson began to make mistakes. First, a delay of game penalty moved them back five yards. Two pass plays brought the Cats to within just inches of a first down at the Bison seven-yard line. Then things fell apart. In an attempt to surprise the Bisons, the Cats chose to pass rather than run. The pass was incomplete and a holding penalty cost Davidson 10 yards. After another incomplete pass, it was fourth down and the Wildcats were forced to try a field goal. Senior Andy Vaughn’s 35-yard attempt was short and wide to the right.

Davidson’s defense stiffened on the next two Bucknell possessions, forcing a punt and recovering a fumble, but the offense failed to capitalize and turned the ball over twice. At the end of the first quarter, speed again played a major role. After freshman Ken Nazemetz recovered a Bison fumble at the Davidson 14-yard line, Bradley completed a 41-yard pass to junior Robert Sickles. Sickles, like Jones earlier, was out in front of the defense but was unable to break free for the touchdown and was brought down at the Bucknell 42. Two plays later, Bradley threw an interception at the Bucknell 20-yard line.

It took the Bisons only two plays to show their speed. A four-yard run put them at their own 20. And then Given hit a receiver who had gotten behind the Davidson secondary for an 80-yard touchdown. About six minutes later, Given connected with another wide-open receiver for a 31-yard touchdown on a fourth down play. The Bisons closed out their first half scoring with a 35-yard field goal at the end of the second quarter to take a 24-0 lead into the dressing room.

This lead proved insurmountable as Davidson could manage only seven second-half points. The Wildcat defense played well in the second half against Bucknell’s second-team offense. They held the Bisons to just a field goal. Bucknell got the ball at the Davidson 41 after a short punt by junior Charlie Winborne. Bucknell was forced to attempt the 38-yard field goal because a wide-open Bison receiver dropped a pass in the end zone.

Davidson got its only score in the third quarter after a 68-yard punt return by sophomore Bryan Overcash to the Bucknell nine-yard line. Overcash was sprung by a great block by his fellow return man Edwards. Davidson, under the reins of freshman quarterback Peter Hughes, again looked sloppy. An incomplete pass to Teel in the end zone and an illegal procedure penalty put the ball at the 14. Two passing plays netted one yard and the Cats were faced with fourth and goal at the 13. Hughes then got the Wildcats on the board with a pass to Teel in the back of the end zone. The Bison defender got to the ball first, but Teel took it away for the score.

Soccer woes continue with two more losses

By PERRY MATHEWES

The Davidson soccer team lost two games this week to drop their record to 3-10-1. Saturday they...away for the fly gave the Cats a second down score: ~~ a ¥ xen Jones. The Wildcats meet Lafayette in Richardson Stadium for the Homecoming game this Saturday. Head coach Vic Gatto said that Hughes will get his first start at quarterback in this game. He will have his hands full with a tough Lafayette squad.

Scoring both their goals in this period, Slagle said, “the team I’m picking Vest beat the defender and shot for the team that’s left.” “We were always a half step slower and gave them too many chances on corner kicks,” coach Furman said. The team lost 2-0 to Southern Conference rival Furman on Wednesday and 7-2 to N.C. State in Raleigh. The loss to Furman ended Davidson’s hope of winning the Southern Conference championship. Davidson is in third place in the conference with a record of 1-2. The team has two conference games left.

The Furman game did not start well for the Wildcats. Furman dominated play in the first half, Charlie Slagle said. Davidson came out in the second half looking better and managed to play the Paladins evenly. Sophomore midfielder Tracy Hankins had an excellent opportunity that almost narrowed the margin with ten minutes left in the second half, but without a goal, the Cats never really could get back in the game. “Furman’s a good team,” Slagle said, “to win the conference.”

The State game was completely different. The team played well for the first 15 minutes, then State scored on a corner kick. Then a mistake at midfield gave State a breakaway goal that broke Davidson’s back. State had a 4-0 lead before Davidson could respond with a goal of its own. Sophomore forward Mike Friedlander took the ball down the sidelines on a three-on-two break and centered it to freshman midfielder Rob Vest, who put the ball home from the 18 to make the halftime score 4-1. “I’m glad that Vest got his first goal because he’s been playing well all year,” Slagle said.

State added three more goals in the second half before Davidson could score again. Junior midfielder Steve Ott scored on a shot from 25 yards out to make the final score 7-2. Vest was credited with the assist. Slagle commented that because of the numerous injuries, “the schedule is too demanding.”

Davidson next hosts conference foe Marshall tomorrow morning at 11:30 a.m. “I’m looking for a good physical battle from a solid team and I’m hoping our team gets up for them,” Slagle said. “It should be a good homecoming game.” On Wednesday, the team takes on South Carolina, who is ranked first in the South and 15th in the nation. Slagle said, “How well we play against them hinges on how well we do against Marshall.”

Volleyball team dominates Queens, sweeps match
By SUSAN WILKINS

The women’s volleyball team soundly defeated Queens College 15-10, 15-13, 15-1 Monday night at Johnston Gym. In the first game against Queens, the Wildcats took a quick lead to go up 9-0. During these first nine points, junior Beth Elder and sophomore Molly Cochran both played aggressively, hitting numerous balls into the Queens’ girls' faces to score. Senior Bonnie Bolton and sophomore Maria Douglas served well and helped to keep the Cats’ spirits up.

Unfortunately, Davidson fell into its usual problem of relaxing with a big lead and Queens came back to lead 10-9. The Cats during this period did not play badly; they looked flat and failed to communicate. Coach Sue Hayes then called a time out and whatever she told the Lady Cats sent them back into the match fighting. The Wildcats started communicating and went on to win the game 15-10.

Senior Michele Miller had several key blocks during the last five points when the Cats were trying to recover serve. Elder also tipped several balls over the Queens’ defense to score for the Wildcats. In the second game, the Queens’ team played the Cats a much closer match. Although Davidson led early 4-0, Queens refused to roll over and let the Wildcats score as they had in the first game. The lead changed several times, with neither team ahead by more than two points. As the points mounted up, the Lady Cats played more and more as a team, supporting each other when Queens scored and cheering each other on when Davidson scored. Tied at 13, the Wildcats showed how much they have improved this season. In previous games, they would have collapsed and lost the game. Against Queens, the Cats refused to give up and they won the game 15-13.

The third game in the best of five series was an easy one for the Wildcats. Strong serving and aggressive offense were the key factors in Davidson’s 15-1 trouncing of Queens.