Friday, October 10, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bleacher Seat
Lamentations of a deprived baseball fan
By MIKE ADAMS

The Major League baseball play-offs have started and I’m not able to watch them! For those of you — only a few, I’m sure — who do not know what’s going on, the Houston Astros and the New York Mets are playing for the National League pennant while the Boston Red Sox and the California Angels battle it out for the American League crown. Forget Libya, the Sanford-Broyhill senate race, the Presidential summit (and for heaven’s sake forget NASCAR); this is the most important event in the world today. And I’m missing it!

Now what, you might ask, could possibly be preventing me from observing this history-making episode of American life? Work, I tell you, plain old, basic studying. I’m sure you, as fellow students, share my outrage. How can the Davidson administration and faculty schedule classes and give homework — yes, homework! — when the fate of the free world rests on the arms of Dwight Gooden and Roger Clemens? This treatment must be in violation of our Constitutional rights. Perhaps it’s covered under cruel and unusual punishment.

The faculty will not even consider amending this atrocity. They claim it is traditional and unavoidable to hold classes during the weeks of the play-offs and the World Series. I believe the faculty has not searched hard enough for alternatives. I have two proposals to change the current system employed by Davidson that should be easy to implement without radically changing the nature of the school.

My first proposal involves doing away with the fall term altogether. If, as the professors insist, it is impossible to avoid holding classes during the baseball post-season without interfering with the quality of the term, then let’s escape this dilemma by not having a term with which to interfere. Such a move would necessitate a six-year schooling process, but as I see it that is no major problem. Who’s in any rush to get into the real world?

The second proposal would involve making observation of the play-offs and the World Series a course itself. This course would have no ceiling; any and all baseball fans would be allowed to take it. As I see it, this course would fall under the jurisdiction of the Center for Special Studies and would apply to any of several social science curriculums.

Despite the obvious rationality and just plain good sense of these proposals, it is my belief that they will be unacceptable to a tradition-bound faculty. It is highly probable that unless students take decisive action, this situation may remain as it is. By the words “decisive action,” I am not advocating violence. There are forms of non-violent protest that may prove just as effective as burning Chambers.

It is probably too late to do anything about this year’s games. I must resign myself to catching an occasional inning and seeing the highlights on the eleven o’clock news. But now is the time for you freshmen, sophomores, and juniors to start agitating for reforms in the next academic year. True fans should meet now and begin planning strategies. Read Gandhi, read Martin Luther King, Jr.; and prepare yourselves to fight this unwanted and unwarranted workload.

Field hockey beats Sewanee for first win
By EDWIN PAGE

The Davidson field hockey team broke into the “W” column for the first time this season on Saturday when they defeated the University of the South 5-1 at Sewanee. On Monday, however, the Lady Cats were brought back to earth when the Fighting Croutons of Pfeiffer defeated them by an identical 5-1 score at Pfeiffer.

On Saturday, the Cats jumped out to a 2-0 lead in the first half, but emerged from intermission on a somewhat shaky note. Sewanee scored ten minutes into the second stanza, and it appeared that Davidson might be in trouble. Coach Betsy Pryor said, “We were showing some confusion on the field, but after the goal, we really got back together.”

Davidson shut out Sewanee for the rest of the way, and with five minutes to go, the score was still...2-1. All of a sudden the Cats erupted, pushing three more goals across before the game's end to ice their first victory of 1986. Senior sweeper Heather McKee led the way for the Cats with two goals. She was joined in the scoring assault by sophomore Suzanne Mauze, and freshmen Christy Sloan and Katherine Mallory, who added one each. Mallory’s goal was a particularly pleasant surprise. The goal illustrated what Pryor called the “amazing improvement” that Mallory has shown during her first season of organized hockey.

On Monday, however, the Cats came out sluggish and Pfeiffer made them pay for it. At 1:30 into the first half, the Croutons put one in the net to jump out to an early 1-0 lead. The Cats, rudely awakened, stiffened and held Pfeiffer scoreless for the remainder of the first half. Pfeiffer added another goal early in the second half, but Davidson freshman Marta Bukowski, seemingly completely recovered from a stick to the face earlier in the season, answered for the Cats 11 minutes into the half to make the score 2-1. McKee took a penalty hit into the circle, and Bukowski was in perfect position to deflect it past the helpless goalie for the goal. That was, however, all the attack that Davidson could muster. They let down for the final 15 minutes, allowing Pfeiffer to tally three more before the end of the contest.

Despite the score, Pryor saw some good things on the field. “I was disappointed with the goals against us, but our play was much better than it was in the first Pfeiffer game.” She felt that the goals were results of let-downs in the circle, but that the play at midfield and on the offensive end showed considerable improvement. The Suwanee and Pfeiffer games marked the third and fourth straight games in which the Cats have scored after being shut out in their first four games of the year. The offensive improvement is a result of a couple of factors. The team has started to take advantage of their opportunities on free hits and corners, scoring several of their goals on set plays. Equally important has been the stabilization of the lineup. The University of the South and Pfeiffer games marked the first time that the Cats have fielded the same team for two straight games.

Davidson has three games remaining before the Deep South tournament and Pryor feels that the team has a legitimate chance in all three. The Cats’ next game is tentatively scheduled for next Thursday, Oct. 16 at home at 4 p.m. against Catawba.

Cross country team suffers disappointing meet
By EDWIN PAGE

Last Saturday the Davidson men’s and women’s cross country teams ran in the UNCC Invitational in Charlotte. In their previous meet, both teams had been “outstanding” according to coach Gary Andrew, so it was a disappointment when their performances dropped off somewhat on Saturday. The men’s team finished sixth out of twelve teams, while the women’s team came in fourth in a field of nine.

Andrew said of the meet, “It wasn’t our best effort. We’re hoping that this will be our one off meet and that we can come back strong the rest of the season. We’ve talked it over and everyone is ready to bounce back.”

While the team performances left something to be desired, there were several strong individual efforts. Junior Chris Fischer paced the men’s team for the second time this season. Both Fischer and sophomore Bill Hartman ran well on Saturday and have lowered their times in every race this year. Freshman Missy Willis finished first among Davidson’s women and came in seventh overall. Other outstanding efforts came from freshman Lisa Culbertson and sophomore Sara Roberts, who also continued to lower their times.

Thursday, the team travels to Duke to run in the North Carolina Intercollegiate meet. This is an invitational meet to which every college team in the state is invited. ACC teams Duke, N.C. State, and Wake Forest will be represented. Andrew says, “It will be fun for the team to see how they can do against that kind of competition.”