Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

TRAARBHAVARRH

Blue

Recently it has come to my attention, reading in the media, the following problem has been put forth to Dr.
Bliss and I — dilemma as to whether to utilize the King’s English in a proper manner so to accurately
convey one’s feelings toward another person, thing, whatever, in a clear and concise (even terse) fashion without the hindrance of
convoluted phraseology or some such misuse of our beloved verbiage.

I’m now taken aback to the days of

Opinions

Guttural utterances

my younger years as I played tee-ball. (Damn — If I could hit the ball off the tee. My girl
started to like the star of the team. Damn — If I could only catch. Because of this, I switched
to mental sports. Damn — If only I could write.)

I gave up sports because I knew that aesthetic things were my game — like dandelions... the smell of a
freshly-picked flower teaches me the beauty in nature (and man). Human beauty is expressed through the nature of his writing
— So I therefore propose to put forth a bill saying that epitaphs should be consisting of that which one
has written his entire life (especially those words which are nothing but bull dung). My writings

Warner Hall

Announces

Ever

Hayride to Hell

Come Watch All HELL Break Loose!

IVCF Will Officially Excommunicate All Participants!

Cushman Tipping After The Bewitching Hour!

would fill a sarcophagus.

In saying, “Damn — If only I could write,” and “My writings would fill a sarcophagus,” facetiousness, of course, was
my intention. This is, after all, our parody issue, and so therefore I can raise my level of licentiousness. On
that same vein, allow me to continue my comments about the butchery of our nation’s language made by our nation’s
mode of communication, T.V.

Television is naught but chewing gum for the eyes, whilst reading exercises one’s mental facilities. W. F. Bulkey is of
course the most aerobic of modern day writers, exercising the peruser’s mind to the full extent of its gray matter.

Car Wash To:

Your Ride To Righteousness!

The Bulkey of the Cathode Ray Tube George Willing, however, lacks the style of the great writer, whom I eternally
emulate. His clear, Mark Twainian style of writing sets an example for we plebeian pencil-pushers. Willing’s eloquent ramblings deserve no
derision, but it is no contest for the master of the mega-syllabic word, whose writings are as prolific as his
name suggests.

I invoke the muses here, so they can bring back the golden years of television. Days when Milton Berle, “The
Honeymooners” and “The Little Rascals” ruled the two-dimensional screen. T.V. sucks now. As does the writing skill of most everybody!...

Announces

Heaven

Scrubbing Bubbleheads Work Hard — So You Don’t Have To!
