10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor Will Thomason, Business Manager
Nelle McCorkle, News Editor Andy Ball, Features Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Tony Griffin, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Social life

The recent increase in North Carolina’s drinking age from 19 to 21 has presented the Davidson student body with a
major challenge: how to maintain a social environment based to a large extent on alcohol-oriented activities alive on a campus
where approximately three-fourths of the students cannot legally drink alcoholic beverages.

And if the rise in the drinking age does not cause enough problems, the Council for Campus and Religious Life
has passed new Patterson Court restrictions that, among other things, prevent freshmen from participating in Court activities of any kind
for the first five weeks of fall term.

As the fear of an unavoidable “social death” crept across the student body, several student groups stepped to the forefront
and either passed policies or organized activities designed to keep social life at Davidson humming.

The Patterson Court Council deserves a great deal of praise for authoring and implementing the new Patterson Court alcohol policy.
This policy, which essentially requires houses to serve alcohol in areas accessible only by students proving they are 21, succeeds
in providing protection against lawsuits for the houses without being a major inconvenience for would-be drinkers.

Union Board President Lucinda Kellam and the entire Union Board deserve credit for their Herculean efforts to provide more activities
than any one person could hope to attend. By planning movies, parties, and concerts that any student of any age
can attend and enjoy, the Union has eliminated “social death.”

While the rise in the drinking age and the new concern for freshman involvement in Patterson Court have changed Davidson’s
social life, social life at Davidson seems as strong as ever. Pitchers in the 900 Room, a luxury which this
year’s seniors may remember from the long-past first month of their freshman year, have been replaced by plastic cups of
beer “abandoned” on tables at Court parties for “anyone” who dares to pick up and consume.

Though upperclassmen may complain about the lost era of parties jammed with freshmen and back porches dominated by free-running kegs,
the class of 1990 will know no other social life at Davidson. The new policies of today will be the
old regulations of tomorrow.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of
the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates.
Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, Jim Dillon, Laura Gabel, Andrea Gross, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine.

Features Staff: Laura Ballenger, Mark Chen, Lee Bichelberger, Martha Johnson, Nelle McCorkle.

Sports Staff: Emil Cekada, Boyd Coggins, Pam Harmann, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wilkins.

Photography Staff: Romy A. Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, David Petty.

Staff Artist: Richard Cloudt.
Production Staff: Beth Bryson, Kim Crabtree, Clisby Hall, Kim Robertson, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yarborough.

Compositors: Doug Kim, Ann Roddey.

To the Editors:

We want to applaud the efforts of the student body thus far this year in adhering to the new policies
regarding alcohol on Patterson Court and freshman participation in house functions. We would also like to encourage everyone to continue
to respect these policies and the reasoning behind them. Students are responsible for their development and implementation. The Patterson Court
Selection Study Committee and the Council on Campus and Religious Life, which recommended the policy on freshman participation of Patterson
Court during the fall term, were both composed mostly of students. The Patterson Court Council (PCC), which developed the Patterson
Court Alcohol Policy, is totally student run. These policies will be reviewed at the end of the year, but we
want to stress the importance of abiding by them so that we as a student body can accurately evaluate their
effectiveness. In order to maintain the privilege of developing our own policies regarding student life, we as students must uphold
the current ones for which we are responsible.

Fran Houck — PCC president
Mark Sandy — SGA president

Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian’s “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions
on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community. We adhere to the following guidelines:

Any opinion should be in to us by 7 p.m. the Monday before publication, unless it is typed on IBM
5.25” diskette, in which case it is due 5 p.m. Tuesday.

We accept typed and legibly-written articles only. Opinions should be signed. We will only print unsigned ones if there is
a compelling reason and the author is known to us (the editors).

We will not edit opinions for content or style, but for common English usage only. We will inform the author
of substantial changes.

Because of limited space, sometimes we are not able to print all opinions submitted in one issue. We reserve the
right to select articles from those we receive for publication. We will attempt to print any withheld article the following
week.
