Friday, March 14, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson
By JANE AURELL

Headlining the news for the week of March 10-13:

Asian news — In the Philippines, a spokesman for newly elected President Corazon Aquino said that she may proclaim a
revolutionary government to oust officials appointed by her deposed predecessor Ferdinand Marcos; several former Marcos officials have already been arrested.
There is a rumor that Marcos, who is in exile in Hawaii, will attempt to regroup his political allies. Meanwhile,
documents were found in the Filipino Presidential Palace revealing that Imelda Marcos, the wife of Ferdinand Marcos, held bank accounts
under fictitious names in order to funnel money out of the Philippines to finance expensive shopping trips in the U.S.
and Europe. Earlier this week thousands rallied in Seoul, South Korea demanding direct presidential elections and democratic reform in the
country.

Other International News — Reagan conceded that he will be “willing to see what someone offers” if the House votes
down his request for $100 million in aid for the Nicaraguan rebels; however, to date no proposed alternatives have proved
satisfactory and Reagan remains committed to his original request. Meanwhile, Mario Soares, former Socialist Prime Minister of Portugal, was sworn
in Sunday as the country’s first elected civilian president in 60 years. In other international developments — Four French citizens
were kidnapped in Beirut on Sunday by Islamic militants; French authorities are refusing to yield to the terrorist demands. In
Zimbabwe, Joshua Nkomo announced that he and his “foe” Prime Minister Robert Mugabe will merge their political parties as a
step toward forming a one-party socialist state. Pictures from the Soviet spacecraft “Vega 2” confirm that as opposed to the
two-core theory deduced from earlier photos, Halley’s comet has a single nucleus. In a related development, astronomers in Chile reported
sightings of as many as eight tails on the comet.

National News — Sources announced on Monday that John Tower, former chairman of the Senate Arms Services Committee, will resign
as a U.S. arms control negotiator in Geneva. The Reagan administration told Capitol Hill it intends to sell Saudi Arabia
$354 million in missiles. Last Friday the State Department told the U.S.S.R. to reduce the size of its U.N. mission
in New York by 40 percent during the next two years; the Soviets are protesting this “illegitimate demand.” Divers have
found the crew compartment containing remains of the astronauts of the ill-fated space shuttle Challenger. NASA announced a policy change
that will mix a fleet of manned space shuttles and unmanned rockets to launch satellites. In Philadelphia, Mayor Wilson Goode
formally apologized for his handling of the May 13 police bombing of the MOVE cult headquarters that ended with 11
people dead and 61 homes burned. Goode stated that he does not expect to be indicted for his role.

Marcos ousted, Reagan calls for contra aid

Last weekend a crowd of 80,000 abortion rights activists marched to the steps of the Capitol; this march was more
than twice as large as an anti-abortion march held in January that attracted 37,000. An FBI investigation reports that nearly
200 federal employees hold phony academic or medical degrees. Wednesday marked the sixth day of a nation-wide strike by more
than 6,000 TWA flight attendants.

In Health Matters — Vegetarians and cholesterol watchers beware: Science Digest reports that high levels of beef tallow are used
by many fast food restaurants in the preparation of chicken, fish, and french fries. A National Institute of Health report
says that people are most likely to suffer strokes between 8-9 a.m.; this is the same time found earlier to
be the most dangerous for heart attacks.

Thought for the Week — “Man is just about as happy as he makes up his mind to be.” Abraham
Lincoln

New housing lottery features open room selection
By KEITH FINCH

Davidson students who want to live on campus next year will have to take part in a new lottery system
which involves an “open” room sign-up procedure. According to a brochure to be released next week by the Housing Office,
this year’s room selection procedure will take place in the Chambers Gallery where students will have the opportunity to choose
their rooms from a poster showing layouts of dormitories and indicating which rooms are still available. Students will be admitted
to the sign-up area in the order of their lottery numbers to select their rooms. The room sign-ups will take
place on two nights in April, and students who miss the sign-ups will be moved to the end of the
list. However, students will be able to have friends select rooms for them. Housing director Tom Jennings said that the
new procedure is intended to increase student involvement in the room-selection process. “The main advantage I see"Coming from the new
system will be the open-room sign-up procedure,” Jennings said. “It brings the system out into the open. In the past,
part of the problem was that people didn’t see things happening — they assumed that the Housing staff was just
making arbitrary decisions about rooms. Now, students will be able to see each other taking their rooms out from under
their noses rather than assuming that it happens in the housing office.”

Assistant Housing Director Debbie Young said, “The reason we're moving to having the students actively participate is to allow the
students to actually see the rooms as they are marked off. We're not trying to hide anything; we want to
get it out into the open.”

Jennings said that he and the housing staff had considered other possible room selection systems, including computer assignment and a
“first come, first served” system in which students would be assigned rooms on the basis of their position in line.
“We didn’t want people camping out to get the first places in line,” Jennings said.

In past years, students submitted cards listing room preferences to the Housing Office, whereupon staff members proceeded to assign rooms
based upon the order of students’ lottery numbers. Jennings foresees some potential for problems with the new system, stemming mostly
from students’ lack of familiarity with the rules. “It’s new, and if people don’t read the information there’ll be a
lot of trouble on those two nights. But we’re expecting them to read the information, and if they don’t know
what's going on, it’ll be their own problem.”

No special privileges

Further changes in housing policy include an end to special privileges for rising juniors forced off campus during their sophomore
year. This year’s rising juniors will be allowed to draw senior numbers as they had been promised, but this may
be the last year that this special privilege will be offered. Jennings said that the Housing Office decided not to
allow senior privileges to students forced off campus, because many groups want the same privilege. “All sorts of people want
special privileges,” Jennings said, “like the freshman girls who have to live on fourth [floor] Little (Hall) and complain about
that. It’s the same way with the freshman males who have to live in Belk’s [Dormitory] basement and never have
a freshman hall. How are we supposed to decide who gets the special privileges?”

Jennings added that it is sometimes difficult to tell which rising sophomores are actually forced off campus. “Eliminating the special
privilege makes it a truer lottery.” He added, however, that the decision is not final. “We’re going to keep track
of the sophomores who are forced off campus this year, because the issue is still open to debate. I think
Dean Terry is pushing towards keeping the sophomore advantage.”

Less clustering

Another change in housing policy is the decision to prevent social groups from taking over dormitories or halls. The policy
reads, “No more than 16 students from any social group, eating house, or fraternity may block together in any hall
or section of a residence hall. It is the intention of the College that we are an integrated community, not
a segregated one.”

Young said that the decision to prevent concentrations of large numbers of students from the same social groups is well
within the authority of the Housing Office. She said, “If for any reason a student’s behavior warrants discipline, then they
can be penalized through their lottery choice. That’s been found to be a very effective means of discipline.” Young used
the decision made last year to limit the rooms made available to members of Sigma Alpha Epsilon as an example:
“The SAE’s were kept from clustering in Knox because they had been so destructive before. They were trying to take
over the whole dorm because it was so close to their fraternity house. We kept them out for the college's
benefit.”

No storage in rooms

The Housing Office has also decided to require that all personal belongings be removed from rooms when students leave for
summer break. In the past, students retaining their rooms have been allowed to keep sofas, carpets, and other furniture in
their rooms during the summer. Jennings explained that rooms containing furniture can be offensive to students and parents staying at
Davidson for camps, conferences, and freshman orientation, particularly if the furniture is of low quality. “There are 28 conferences and
camps at Davidson that we must house during the summer,” Jennings said, “and there are between 600 and 700 people
here at times. It's really hard to go through dorms and mark the rooms that can’t be used.”

Jennings also said that it is difficult for college personnel to clean around furniture left in rooms over the summer.

Housing Director Tom Jennings
Bill Hartman
