14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors  
David Williams, Associate Editor  
Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor  
Will Thomason, Business Manager  
Bill Bugg, Features Editor  
Heidi Hooker, News Editor  
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors  
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor  
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor  
Karen Bockus, Tony Griffin, Advertising Managers  
Will Mitchell, Dan Rikard, Circulation Manager  
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor  

PCC policy

The Patterson Court Council was smart: it protected its self-interest when it drew up its alcohol policy for next year. It was smart because it tried to move the liability of potential suits from the houses to individuals. If a house strictly adheres to the outlined policy, then it would be extremely difficult to place the blame of an accident upon the house.

The PCC was also smart because under-age people can still drink alcoholic beverages. Although this is obviously against the law, the decision (and along with it the responsibility for) allowing underage persons to drink would be placed upon individuals, not houses. It was also smart for the PCC to do this because if the freshmen, sophomores, and a good number of juniors are not able to drink on campus, they will find a place to drink off campus; this will lead to drunk driving. Also, the “atmosphere of present Davidson parties” will be maintained if the beer freely flows. This, of course, assumes that individuals will not adhere to the rules. They won't, realistically speaking. The ersatz enforcement code is supposed to stop violations of this sort (e.g. supplying an underage person with alcohol), but again, realistically it will not.

According to the proposal, one individual, the bartender, is to take the responsibility of serving the alcohol. This ever-vigilant and sober person is to neither drink nor let anyone obviously intoxicated drink. The term “obviously intoxicated” is ambiguous because many can feign sobriety. The term is probably meant to be vague just for that reason: if a person is drunk but does not appear to be so, then the bartender could (and, if the person being served were a fellow member of the house, the bartender probably would) serve him/her, allowing more people to get more beer. Unfortunately, the bartender could be sued. Anyone willing to take that risk is brave, or he/she has a vested interest in the house. If the latter is true, great. If he/she is concerned about the house, then he/she is probably a leader of the house. Here is where another problem arises: are there enough leaders who are willing to spend countless hours at numerous parties? And will they stay sober? The answer, to both questions, is “no.”

It seems as if the proposal’s emphasis is on reducing drunk driving, promoting responsible drinking (if the bartenders can do their job), and removing liability from the houses. The first two reasons are admirable; the third is understandable.

The PCC, however, would also like to emphasize equality and community amongst the houses. This will not happen due to the enforcement clause. As it stands now, the enforcement clause can be used as a pernicious tool. Rival houses can easily damage another house’s (fraternity and otherwise) rush program by reporting a violation (and violations will occur...). As an example, what if a freshman (who is “obviously drunk”) enters the “service area” and gets a beer. With three regulations being broken, the house charged would probably receive a $400 fine and two weeks of social probation. The ensuing lack of parties means little interaction between house members and prospective freshmen, thereby hurting rush. Also, the $400 would come out of the social budget, since that is the only “expendable” fund that a house has. In return, the house charged would become spiteful toward the house of the person doing the accusing. This situation will not promote “equality and community” as the PCC would like.

The rules the PCC has proposed are realistic; the enforcement of those rules is not. Since the decision to break the rules (and hence the responsibility for doing so) is mostly upon individuals,Why not charge the individuals involved, not the houses? This would create “community” amongst the houses, and it would probably make the individuals adhere to the rules more closely, since it is their skin on the line, not the whole house’s.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Friday, May 9, 1986

MEMORIES FOR FUTURE AMERICAN COLLEGE ALUMS

KINDA REMINDS ME OF OUR PARTIES BACK AT THE OLD ALMA MATER.

Shanties

To the Editors:

On Wednesday, April 30, several students answered flyers and met at the conversation pit in the Union to find out about apartheid, more specifically, to find out about investments made in the name of Davidson College. Students who organized the event expressed their plans to build shanties in hopes of encouraging our trustees to re-evaluate their investment policy pertaining to South Africa. Shanties were erected in anticipation of the trustee meeting held at Davidson the following weekend. Backed by the administration, the shanties were manned almost continuously as a sign of student concern. Likewise, that weekend a few students displayed their concern by presenting an “open letter” to the trustees. During their meetings, the trustees decided that re-evaluation is necessary and, accordingly, formed a committee to research the situation. They plan to make a report at their October meeting.

This past Wednesday evening, one full week later, S.A.A. (Students Against Apartheid) dismantled the shanties, returning Davidson to its usual skyline. However, the group entitled S.A.A., regrouped and reorganized, has embarked upon a challenging journey. Basically, our purpose in creating this group is twofold — a) to research Davidson College’s investments in companies with South Africa branches and b) to report our findings to Davidson trustees, administration, faculty, and students, with suggestions as to future action. We have plans to continue our work throughout the summer and to be active in the forum planned for early fall. We encourage anyone interested in helping with this cause to contact Chuck Crews (-6458) or Laura Kline (-7727) before the term concludes. Additionally, we would like to state that S.A.A. does not intend to be antagonistic toward anyone. We simply feel that more change in investment policy may be needed and, thus, intend to discern what mode this change should take. Our overall goal is the abolition of apartheid, an end to the discrimination that continues to vex South Africa.

Laura Lee Kline
Students Against Apartheid

Apartheid

To the Editors:

After reading Rob Spiegel’s article in last week’s Davidsonian, I feel compelled to respond. First, the basic message of his article is not far from my own opinion. That is, South Africa’s troubles and evils will not end in a day. Indeed, step-by-step transition would be the ideal way to end apartheid. However, the current changes are weak, and a detailed outline of the Afrikaners’ plans for a fair, progressive, and complete change has never been produced. Are we to consider that because a few laws have been softened that the South African government intends to abolish apartheid? Are we now supposed to applaud the token gestures of a government which continues to suppress the basic freedoms of an overwhelming majority of its population? I think not. Not only would these reactions be tantamount to approval of the South African government — they would also represent a dangerous retreat from American ideals.

And now the subject of divestment. Though some members of Students Against Apartheid feel, as does Bishop Desmond Tutu, that divestment would bring about the necessary changes in South Africa, the purposes of the group are to make the Board of Trustees of this college aware of student desires for re-evaluation of their investment policy regarding corporations in South Africa, and also to combat student apathy concerning this matter. (I suppose the fact that Rob reacted at all deserves a thank-you.) Some of those “liberal anti-apartheid signs decorating our campus” do call for divestment, but recently the purpose of the organization was modified (basically as stated).