THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
David Williams, Associate Editor
Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Heidi Hooker, News Editor
Bill Bugg, Features Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Tony Griffin, Advertising Managers
Will Mitchell, Dan Rikard, Circulation Managers
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Davidson competes in Division I in men’s athletics despite small numbers, why shouldn’t the school expect to face the same challenge in women’s athletics? Considering the lack of foresight exhibited by the athletic department in handling women’s athletics, the constant desire to avoid the rules by receiving waivers, and the unfortunate means taken to ensure Davidson’s eligibility for next year, Davidson College has lost a potential national championship, the confidence of many women athletes, and some of its women’s athletics.

In the last few months, the ill effects of a decade of mismanagement in the Davidson women’s athletics program have finally appeared. Recently, women’s tennis, ranked number one in the nation in Division III, learned they would not be eligible to compete in the Division III National Championships. Last weekend, five Davidson women played in a golf tournament with eight other teams in order to keep Davidson athletics, both men and women, from becoming unclassified next year. Two of the five women had never played golf before this scapegoat team was organized as a sacrificial lamb to appease the NCAA gods.

The causes of this chaos in women’s athletics are many. One is simply being caught in a trap of vaguely worded NCAA bylaws. However, administrative neglect and Davidson athletics’ never-ending requests for waivers from NCAA regulations that don’t fit the athletic department’s master plan are responsible for the recent confusion.

Two NCAA bylaws lie at the heart of Davidson’s athletic problems. One, Article XI, section 1-b, leaves vague the issue of whether a Division I school, such as Davidson claims to be, needs to sponsor six women’s varsity teams or six Division I women’s varsity teams. The second bylaw in question, Article X, section 2, allows a Division I school to have one women’s sport compete at the Division III level, an option Davidson wished to utilize in the area of women’s tennis.

The problem lies with the lawyers and varying interpretations of Article XI. Athletic Director Christopher Morris asserts that Davidson felt it had met this rule by sponsoring women’s varsity teams in basketball, tennis, field hockey, cross country, and both indoor and outdoor track. Unfortunately for Davidson, the NCAA decided the proper interpretation was that a school must have six Division I women’s sports. Since basketball is unclassified and tennis planned to compete at the Division III level, the NCAA viewed Davidson as having only four of the necessary six teams and threatened to leave Davidson unclassified next year, a nightmare for any team planning to make a post-season appearance similar to the men’s basketball team this March.

Davidson's response to the NCAA’s interpretation was to ask for a waiver, claiming the college had made “an honest mistake” in rules interpretation. This policy effort was led by Morris and President Kuykendall. The effort failed and thus the women’s tennis team got “promoted” to Division I and the women’s golf team made its brief, but noteworthy, appearance.

The problems in women’s athletics have been dealt with far too slowly and decisions have been made without much foresight. Despite learning in early September that six women’s Division I sports were needed, only in the last two weeks have the fifth and sixth teams “appeared.” After hearing from the NCAA, women’s basketball was known to be ineligible to be one of the six back in October. Had the athletic department consulted section four of Article XI, women’s basketball’s ineligibility would have been discovered before the team’sHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

A schedule was made, therefore giving ample time for correction. Yet women’s tennis was not promoted to Division I until April, midway through their season. If the crucial rules determining whether or not Davidson would be eligible were vague, why didn’t the athletic department seek clarification in advance? Was the athletic department afraid they would have to raise basketball and tennis to Division I status if they sought an NCAA interpretation? Did the athletic department fear that notifying the NCAA in advance would ruin their ignorance claim that was so important to their hopes in gaining a waiver? Davidson must lead the NCAA in waiver requests with both football and women's athletics. The athletic department continued to seek a waiver for women’s basketball and tennis even after being turned down twice. Recent waivers granted to the military academies on the basis of their small female populations encouraged the administration to try again. What the athletic department chose to ignore is that while the military academies aren't the biggest schools in the nation, their low numbers of females is based on the small percentage of female students enrolled.

I GUESS YOU LADIES ARE WONDERING WHY YOU'RE HERE. WELL, YOU'RE GOING TO PLAY GOLF. OR ELSE...

NCAA Letters

To the Editor:

In his opinion, “Some Problems with On-Campus Living,” Mike Stephens asserts “no ivory tower is without its dragons, but there is no excuse for such intelligent people to act so mindlessly.” We beseech Mike to reflect upon his own intellectual prowess. Mike, how smart is it to say you are “laying in your loft” as you did in the second paragraph of your opinion? Mike, you employ “overbearing” in a novel manner when you modify “workload” with it. Usually, “overbearing” connotes a psychological attribute, as “domineering” does (e.g., The overbearing guest annoyed his host.) Perhaps “overwhelming” would have been less awkward in the third sentence of paragraph eight where you query rhetorically “Who can complain about an overbearing workload over a quart of Budweiser?” Indeed, should this have been a rhetorical query at all? Is it obvious that one forfeits the prerogative to complain about his workload merely by drinking a beer, or is this a non sequitur? Could one not conceivably drink a beer and study simultaneously? Mike, perhaps you couldn’t, but one can surmise from your grossly flawed opinion that you are functioning under a formidable handicap already.

Laura L. Ratchford '86
Ida W. Phillips ’87
Elizabeth M. Blair '86

Davidsonian’s “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community. We adhere to the following guidelines: Any opinion should be in to us by 7 p.m. the Monday before publication, unless it is typed on IBM diskette, in which case it is due 5 p.m. Tuesday. We accept typed and legibly-written articles only. Opinions should be signed. We will only print unsigned ones if there is a compelling reason and the author is known to us (the editors). We will not edit opinions for content or style, but for common English usage only. We will inform the author of substantial changes. Because of limited space, sometimes we are not able to print all opinions submitted in one issue. We reserve the right to select articles from those we receive for publication. We will attempt to print any withheld article the following week.