Wednesday, March 26, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Beyond Davidson

U.S. attacks Libya; Reagan combats acid rain
By DAVID WILLIAMS and KEITH FINCH

Headlining the Events of March 17-25:

Internationally — The United States sent three aircraft carriers and 27 warships into the Mediterranean Sea with orders to cross
the “line of death,” 150 miles from Libya into the Gulf of Sidra. After Libyan forces fired six missiles at
U.S. Navy planes, U.S. forces retaliated and destroyed a Libyan patrol boat, heavily damaged a second vessel, and knocked out
the missile site on the Libyan coast.

President Reagan, under pressure from the Canadian government, agreed to begin a new $5 billion program to combat acid rain
pollution, blamed for devastating the forests, fields, and lakes of the U.S. and Canada. Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney met
with Reagan at the White House to discuss the matter.

French voters gave the conservative legislative opposition party a slender majority in a national election, ending a five-year period of
control of Parliament by President Francois Mitterand’s Socialist Party. Socialist Premier Laurent Fabius resigned his post, and Mitterand asked conservative
rival Jacques Chirac, the Mayor of Paris, to head the new government as French premier.

A bomb exploded in a crowded shopping arcade on the Champs Elysees in Paris, killing two persons and injuring at
least 28.

Swedish authorities charged Victor Gunnarson, 32, as an accomplice in the Feb. 28 murder of Swedish Prime Minister Olof Palme.
Gunnarson was later released, however, after Palme’s widow and another witness were unable to identify him as the assassin.

Citizens of Switzerland overwhelmingly rejected a Swiss government proposal to enter the United Nations, 41 years after the founding of
the international agency.

The Reagan administration revealed satellite reconnaissance photographs showing that the Soviet Union has started preparations for the resumption of nuclear
weapons testing, despite a moratorium on testing the Soviets announced last July 30. The U.S. announced it was resuming underground
nuclear tests and proceeded with the first nuclear weapons test of 1986 at the Nevada test site last Saturday. Soviet
news agency Tass described the test as “the Reagan administration’s new militaristic action.”

The House of Representatives voted 222-210 to reject President Reagan's request for $100 million in aid to the Contras in
Nicaragua. Reagan, who had revealed results of a U.S.-financed public opinion poll showing that a majority of the population in
Central America supports the U.S. military aid, called the vote “a dark day for freedom.” Reagan agreed, however, to negotiate
a peaceful settlement of the war in Nicaragua before sending new arms to the rebels.

Israeli officials announced that Israel will begin training South African blacks as part of a program to produce a national
cadre of black leaders who can successfully move the South African government away from the racist system of apartheid. The
Supreme Court of South Africa rebuffed the Botha government by invalidating severe restrictions imposed on black activist Mkhuseli Jack.

The World Bank announced a new approval of $1.5 billion in loans to Latin America to help resolve the world
debt crisis. The loans represent one of the bank’s largest commitments to Latin America ever.

Haitian military leader Henri Namphy fired three colleagues and declared himself president of a new governing council as protest against
the government elevated in the capital. Haitian youths set dozens of fires in Port-au-Prince after demonstrators marched for several hours
demanding that the military government give way to civilian government.

President Corazon Aquino appealed to communist rebels in the Philippines to “stop fighting and negotiate.” Rebel leaders said they are
willing to negotiate a cease-fire but will not lay down their arms until Aquino dismantles certain “fascist” structures of the
government remaining from the Marcos era. The Aquino government revealed a new constitutional plan that would dissolve the national assembly
and transfer legislative power to Aquino. Meanwhile, striking Filipino workers sealed off all three entrances to the U.S. Subic Bay
Naval Base, injuring nine and stranding hundreds of Navy personnel off base.

Congressional and Reagan administration officials revealed that documents Ferdinand Marcos brought to the United States include plans for payments to
several U.S. political candidates, including $50,000 to President Reagan and an unspecified amount to former President Jimmy Carter. Officials denied
that Reagan had received any campaign contributions from Marcos.

The Panamanian government initially informed the United States that it had agreed to allow Marcos and his family to move
to Panama for temporary residency. Later, however, Panamanian officials rejected the grant of asylum to Marcos for security reasons.

World oil prices plunged to $12.13 a barrel as OPEC members spent nine days in Geneva discussing ways to slow
the falling prices but failed to come to an agreement over a price-support strategy which called for new cuts in
OPEC production.

Attorneys for Union Carbide and the victims of the gas leak of Dec. 1984 in Bhopal, India, which killed at
least 2,000 and injured thousands more, reached a tentative $350 million settlement for damages. However, a lawyer for the Indian
government said the government will oppose the settlement because it is a party to the agreement.

In Pusan, South Korea, government opposition forces staged the largest anti-government demonstration in the seven-year rule of President Chun Doo
Hwan. Opposition leader Kim Young Sam announced Chun could be a “second Marcos” if he does not make reforms in
the constitution.

Over 60,000 demonstrators in Rawalpindi, Pakistan marched through the city and shouted anti-government and anti-U.S. slogans, while opposition leaders said
President Mohammad Zia ul-Haq's pro-American government was in its last days.

Nationally — The House and the Senate came to an agreement over an $18 billion deficit-reduction package which would make
permanent the 16-cent-a-pack federal cigarette tax, limit Medicare payments to hospitals and doctors,and distribute $2 billion in offshore oil revenues
to some states. Congress also agreed to spend $150 million on a stop-gap toxic waste clean-up program administered by the
Environmental Protection Agency. The House also approved legislation which would recompense each of the 52 former Iranian hostages $66 for
each of the 444 days they were held in captivity. The Senate has yet to vote on the action. The
U.S. Supreme Court refused to prevent states from using roadblocks in their attempts to reduce drunken driving. The U.S. Department
of Labor reported that for the first time ever women are holding a majority of professional jobs — such as
those in medicine, law, and engineering — in the United States. NASA reported that it is planning as many as
nine missions for the space shuttle in 1987, including from five to seven missions of a military nature. The Presidential
commission investigating the recent shuttle explosion indicated that strong winds miles above Cape Canaveral possibly contributed to the explosion. Mark
Fairchild and Janice Hart, two supporters of right-wing conservative Lyndon LaRouche, won nominations for the offices of Lieutenant Governor and
Attorney General in the Illinois Democratic primary. Adlai Stevenson, the party's gubernatorial nominee, called the two candidates “neo-Nazis” and is
considering running as an independent candidate. The State of Louisiana began its second trial of Louisiana Governor Edwin Edwards, who
is accused of fraud and racketeering. The first trial resulted in a hung jury. In a proposal similar to those
endorsed by the American Medical Association and the American Lung Association, the American Cancer Society called for the elimination of
all advertising of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco. The Smith-Kline Beckman drug company recalled three of its products, Contac, Teldrin, and
Dietac, after reports that the FBI had found small amounts of rat poison in capsules of the over-the-counter medicines. The
company said that it had received telephone threats against the products before the tampering was discovered. A New York grand
jury charged Roy Williams, former president of the Teamster’s union, with peddling his influence to the top leadership of the
Genovese organized crime family in 1981. The indictment was one in a series of major federal cases against New York's
organized crime families. Williams is currently serving a 10-year term in a Missouri state prison after attempting to bribe a
senator in 1983.

Sculpture vandalized Continued from page 1 were in a sense too small to have been created by those rocks —
it made me feel that perhaps somebody had brought along a ball-peen hammer.” He said, “It was a mess. Everybody
was real upset.” William Brown, college union director, said, “[Public Safety Chief] Jack Hughes talked to me and he said
that he thought the wind might have knocked it off. I think that that was out of disbelief that someone
could have done that. I’m pretty sure we're talking vandalism here.” The sculpture was damaged at some time between 2
a.m. and 6 a.m. on the morning of March 14, the last day of the work’s ten-day loan period. Program
Coordinator Ruth Pritchard said that she and Christensen left the Union at around 2 a.m. that morning, and that at
that time the sculpture was undamaged. “I said to Erik, ‘We made it!’ Then Erik came back the next morning
and discovered the damage.” Brown said there had been some concern about the statue’s presence on campus: “There were a
number of people who were nervous about it but also realized that there was no way [to keep the sculpture
from being stolen or damaged], unless we were to post a guard. Also, we'd had a good experience with the
sculpture last spring and we were less worried because that worked out so well. That was a less fragile piece,
though. “Frankly, the thing's light enough that you could pick it up and walk away with it. I was concerned
with that more than with vandalism, or that people playing with it might swing on its arms and break it.
I did not think anyone would purposely set out to damage it.” The George Rickey Workshop in East Chatham, NY
loaned the sculpture to Davidson College for a period of ten days so that it might be viewed by people
attending the college’s Horticultural Symposium on March 5 and by students attending classes for the first days of spring term,
Brown said. “They were looking for a piece of artwork that would be a kind of symbol of the Symposium,”
he said. Dr. Douglas Houchens, Prof. Emeritus of Art, arranged for the Rickey sculpture to be brought to the campus.
He described George Rickey, the 83-year-old creator of Four Open Rectangles Diagonal Jointed II as “... one of the best
thought-of artists alive today, and maybe the most important sculptor. His work is all kinetic but it’s not mechanical, it
has to do with how the parts of the sculpture interact with natural forces.” Houchens said that the Horticultural Commission
sent Rickey photographs of five possible sites for the display of his work, along with a map of the college,
and asked him to choose both the piece to display and the place in which to display it. Houchens said
that the sculpture is so highly valued partly because of the precision involved in its balance. “Most of it can't
be repaired, it will have to be replaced,” he said. The sculpture is also valuable because it is so unique.
Houchens said that the sculpture was one of an edition of only three identical works. He said that the sculpture
was to have been sent to the American Embassy in the People’s Republic of China upon its return to the
Rickey workshop. “Needless to say, it won't be going there.” The college's insurance is expected to pay for the damages.
