4——

Beyond Davidson —

United States and Russia fight ‘diplomatic war’

By DAVID WILLIAMS

Headlining the news for the week Oct. 17-23:

Around the World — The Soviet Union ordered the expulsion of five American diplomats in Moscow for engaging in “impermissible
activities,” the diplomatic term for espionage. The United States retaliated by ordering the expulsion of 55 Soviet diplomats in Washington.
The Soviet government called the U.S. expulsion “another step aimed at worsening Soviet-American relations” and ordered five more Americans at
the U.S. embassy in Moscow to leave the country.

Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany met with President Reagan in Washington to discuss the arms negotiations conducted in Iceland earlier
this month. Kohl and NATO defense ministers both said their support for reductions in medium-range nuclear missiles proposed in Iceland
hinged on further steps to ensure a balance in conventional forces between NATO and the Warsaw Pact.

President Samora Machel of Mozambique was killed Sunday in a plane crash in South Africa which also took the lives
of 25 others. Machel’s death prompted rioting by hundreds of youth in Harare, Zimbabwe, who claimed South Africa was involved
in the crash. The South African government appointed a Supreme Court judge to head the investigation into the crash.

The General Motors Corporation on Monday announced it would pull out of South Africa by selling its assets there to
a group of investors led by local G.M. managers. On Tuesday the I.B.M. Corporation said it would also sell its
operations in South Africa but would continue supplying I.B.M. products and services.

Yitzhak Shamir, the conservative Likud bloc’s leader, was sworn in as the new Prime Minister of Israel, replacing Shimon Peres,
the Labor Party leader. An Israeli fighter aircraft was shot down by ground fire in large-scale attacks by Israeli forces
on Palestinian guerrilla bases in southern Lebanon.

A Lebanese underground group said it had kidnapped an American intelligence agent, Edward Austin Tracy. Lebanese Professor Nabil Matar was
released by his captors in Beirut Tuesday night after being held hostage for more than five months.

A Reagan administration official said classified information had allayed the suspicions of most members of Congress about direct government involvement
in the flight of the plane downed two weeks ago in Nicaragua. At least six civilians were killed and 30
wounded when their transport truck ran over a powerful land mine north of Jinotega, Nicaragua.

A newly released State Department report said the production of marijuana in Mexico has increased by more than 25 percent,
while the production of opium poppy has increased by one third.

American economist James Buchanan won the Nobel Prize in economics for his development of methods for analyzing economic and political
decision-making. Nigerian playwright and poet Wole Soyinka was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature.

Across the Nation — Congress gave final approval to the $576 billion appropriations bill, which includes legislation that eliminates mandatory
retirement for workers over age 70 and prepares for changes in Social Security and Medicare benefits to help beneficiaries. Congress
also gave final approval to the anti-drug bill and the overhaul of U.S. immigration law.

President Reagan signed into law the historic tax revision bill Congress passed two weeks ago. Reagan called the bill “less
a reform than a revolution” and said it was “the best anti-poverty bill, the best pro-family measure and the best
job-creation program ever to come out of the Congress of the United States.” Reagan also signed the $9 billion “superfund”
bill to clean up toxic-waste dumps and another bill requiring schools to protect children from health hazards posed by asbestos.

Rudolph Penner, director of the Congressional Budget Office, announced he would resign his office in early January when his term
expires.

In Business News — OPEC ministers finally reached agreement after 16 days to continue production controls aimed at strengthening oil
prices. However, American oil specialists said the disarray in which the meeting ended could result in a new price war
by late December, which would drive oil prices down.

The Commerce Department said that during the third quarter the nation’s economy grew at an annual rate of 2.4 percent,
while the nation’s annual inflation rate climbed to 2.5 percent.

The Reagan administration imposed a 15 percent tariff on imported lumber to protect domestic lumber companies from Canadian competition that
the Administration said is government-subsidized. At the nation’s factories, mines, and utilities, production in September rose 0.1 percent, while the
operating rate remained frozen at 79.2 percent of capacity. Business sales climbed 0.4 percent in August, while inventory held steady.

Construction of new homes and apartments dropped 7.6 percent in September.

Finally, a new report predicts the nation’s deficit in high-technology trade will exceed $2 billion this year.

Friday, October 24, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN
