Shel Robinson and John McNeill

Edwin Page’s quote “What, were they (the trustees) thinking? Maybe they weren’t,” may be the quote of 1986. Now Davidson’s
athletic administration has decided to reduce presently competitive minor sports like soccer, tennis, basketball, and baseball to oblivion. The thrill
of winning the Southern Conference basketball tournament and playing in the NCAA’s or beating Duke in soccer will now be
replaced by exhilarating victories against the Campbell Camels or Winthrop Eagles. Our football team will face overbearing competition in the
Colonial League while incurring enormous travel expenses. On the social scene, the North Carolina Legislature has decided to raise the
drinking age to 21, thereby effectively achieving increased drunk driving situations for the Davidson community. The Self-Selection Committee and CCRL
have proposed a new Patterson Court policy that reduces freshmen to pre-adolescent status and contributes to inter-class separation. The campus
is pushing toward the Perimeter Houses for social release as a reaction to short-sighted planning, thereby jeopardizing the existence of
off-campus houses and increasing poor relations with the town. Go Davidson!

More specifically, the community has been presented with a Hall Counselor viewpoint of the new PC policy as well as
another rendition of a Don Quixotish charge for the abolition of fraternities. As former hall counselors, members of the honor
council, and Davidsonophiles, we have decided that now is the time to think about where we are going. Steve Soud’s
reprinted article, “A call for the abolition of fraternities,” is mixed with good and bad. On the positive side, there
were no spelling mistakes while the multi-colored print highlighted key quotes nicely. Bob Boyd and Jim Earle erroneously have led
us to believe that Hall Counselors as a group support the 1986 PC policies and that freshmen halls have miraculously
risen like the Phoenix into paragons of virtue, camaraderie, and scholarship. It’s time to place these issues into perspective and
to hear from another side.

The abolition of fraternities on the basis of coercive selectivity defies logic. Selectivity is not an inherently evil word, but
rather a term that helps to define natural relationships. Without selectivity, I could be our starting quarterback or could take
Ace’s position at center. We must remember that it is a fallacy of composition to allow us to believe that
these are rules rather than exceptions. In fact, most members of fraternities, seniors included, will tell you that their fraternity
experience has been a valuable and enriching area of their college life. The national houses’ inner strength allows their members
to pursue individual pursuits and ideas while they retain the comfort of the trust of many friendships. Furthermore, there is
an infrastructure that requires young members to mature as they approach positions of leadership and responsibility. Without fraternities, many campus
leaders would never have developed the leadership skills that have made them so successful within the Davidson community and beyond.

Fraternities, as a rule and statement of purpose, tend to strive for the betterment of the individual within the support
of a group. Of course, the natural antithesis to these remarks lies in the notion that these same attributes exist
in all small group scenarios. Unfortunately, the issues of credence and degree prove these assertions false. Fraternities, as a rule
and statement of purpose, tend to strive for the betterment of the individual within the support of a group. Secondly,
I found while talking with several conscientious and friendly members of Rusk and Warner Hall that they do not know
even the names of several of their members. These two houses, as well as others, have a plethora of benefits
to offer their members, but it remains that there is a clear difference in their approach. Fraternities choose to base
their program upon friendships, not conformity, in order to achieve the greatest possible success for their members as individuals and
brothers. Although it is a shame that there are two or three freshmen each year who are hurt by the
system, we must be practical and realize that there are over 300 who benefit immensely from fraternities.

The purpose here is not to propose that fraternal organizations are the only viable source of socialization, but rather to
illustrate how fraternities create a valuable addition to the Davidson community along with other eating arrangements that also offer important
choices. The key is to remember that a liberated mind is capable of making adult decisions. The New Court System
fundamentally contradicts the goals of liberal arts. If we are to believe that a liberated mind and conscience lead to
constructive thinking, then we should also believe that Davidson students should be allowed to make their own choices.

The highly popular off-campus houses have come to exist in a precarious position because of town zoning. Social pressure to
move off-campus for activities may ultimately jeopardize the future existence of this unique asset of Davidson. The notion that fraternities
are the chief fault for poor freshmen academic performance is absurd. There are more freshmen who perform at poor levels
because they choose to play ball in the hall or listen to music than do those who feel pressure to
attend every fraternity event.rush event. As former hall counselors and freshmen, we cannot overemphasize the truth in this claim. Even
if this belief about poor performance was true, we would only be hurting our freshmen by forcing them to rush
doubly hard during the most important part of the academic term. Furthermore, 1986 is not the first year that hall
unity and functions have existed at “meaningful” levels. Generally, the freshmen hall camaraderie always takes preference over all other freshmen
social outlets. We have had in these first three weeks of school over a half dozen requests from our 1985-86
freshmen hall to have numerous reunions. From our experience in Belk and from our knowledge of the present year, we
strongly believe that the new social agenda adds no significant contribution to freshmen hall success. What it does bring is
more alcohol and noise into closer proximity with a living and studying environment.

Furthermore, 1986 is not the first year that hall unity and function have existed at “meaningful” levels.

Our final complaint concerns the apparent conspiracy with which our new policy was created. The Self Selection Committee was created
with no student input or attempts to achieve fair representation. Peter Baay was the only pro-fraternity voice. One representative from
a fraternity could not attend since he was not at Davidson, while another representative repeatedly supported measures that the house
had voted unanimously against. None of the alumni representatives had any fraternity background. All selections were made by the Dean
of Students’ Office. Then the committee pursued concerns not specifically within their stated set of design. They incorporated problems with
the Dean’s Outbasket and the new drinking age in creating an all-encompassing plan while no one was aware of their
true direction or could take Ace’s position at center for basketball (this could be a sad and ugly reality with
the new athletic proposal). Phi Beta Kappa would have no basis for existence and grades would not be recorded. Anyone
could be accepted to Davidson. Society’s direction would be like the decisions that one million marbles make after being dropped
down the Grand Canyon. Of course, there is something to be said for pure randomness. Fraternities should be viewed for
what they have to offer. They provide a unique position of strength, confidence, and trust to their individual members. Although
it is easy to point out disappointing fraternity experiences, we

Battle of the buzzers rages on
Tom Moore

“Yes, they're juvenile, but . . .” or “Sometimes the professors do drag on a bit long, but . .
.” seem to be the average opinions regarding the venerated institution of buzzers marking the beginning and end of classes.
The Office of Academic Affairs has decided to abolish the reminders for October as an experiment. This bold step in
higher education has been met with a tidal wave of apathy from staff and students alike. The two sides of
this burning issue break down into one argument apiece: all the students allowed to think like adults. The new policy
promotes adolescence and resists adulthood. Queens freshmen and prospective students can enter Patterson Court while our own freshmen cannot! They
are necessarily told that they are incapable of making decisions and are therefore coerced into following a more centralized schedule
of social activities. These regimented activities thus ludicrously contribute to conformity even more than a pure selection system. The Union
and the freshmen hall have become veritably the only social outlet; not to mention a trip into Charlotte with a
drunk ride back. Secondly, the new Patterson Court system has placed

PRO BUZZERS: The buzzers serve as useful reminders to occasionally (or chronically) long-winded professors, without each class having to rudely
interrupt the discourse.

CON: The buzzers are immature throwbacks to high school. They provide artificial endings to each class, with students perfectly conditioned
into shutting their books at its sound. Both positions have integrated an essential “But, really, so what?” attitude. Don’t be
on the lookout for candlelight vigils and “Bring Back Buzzers” buttons showing up around campus. While they may be leaning
toward one side or another, many faculty and students simply feel that it isn’t going to make a big difference
in their lives. And they're right. Though a few classes may have to elect a martyr every day to acquaint
their professors with real-time, the majority will find that the lecture will end soon enough for student and teacher to
get to the next class on time. The buzzers are by and large unimportant and basically rude to the professors
via the assumption that they are all long-winded and unaware of time's passing. The month-long experiment should go smoothly and
should be extended.

Moore is a freshman from Potomac, MD.
