Inside Art returns, pp. 7-9
Volume LXXVI, Number 5
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, October 10, 1986

Honor council receives extended jurisdiction
By NELLE MCCORKLE

Revised in August, the Code of Disciplinary Procedure now reads, “The Honor Council has the power to hear cases and
impose sanctions involving student organizations which violate the Honor Code, the Code of Responsibility or duly promulgated college regulations. The
sanctions against organizations may include but are not limited to those listed in II-A: warning, censure, probation, fine, eviction, restitution,
suspension for a definite time, indefinite suspension. Appeals from any determination of a violation by an organization or sanction shall
be the same as those for an individual.”

An elected body, the Student Conduct Council includes students, faculty, and administration, headed by the Dean of Students Will Terry.
Terry said of the Conduct Council’s decision, “The Honor Code hasn’t changed. The Code of Responsibility was changed to reflect
the new law.” Terry called the right to try organizations the only substantial change in the Code of Responsibility for
the 1986-87 school year. “One thing we the Student Conduct Council also set up,” Terry said, “was a committee to
advise me in deciding penalties for a person who violated the Alcohol Policy or the Code of Responsibility.”

Appointed by the Student Government Association Senate, the three student members of this Alcohol Violations Committee are sophomore Joe B.
Martin, junior Bob Boyd, and senior Anne Sanders. President John Kuykendall will appoint a faculty representative and one Dean of
Students Office staff member will serve on this committee.

Regarding penalties for specific North Carolina law and Alcohol Policy violations such as the use of false identification, Terry said,
“The Honor Council hears Code of Responsibility cases if I decline to handle them or if the student requests. Most
students say, ‘You just go ahead and handle them.’ My horseback opinion is that it (use of false identification) would
probably be handled as a Code of Responsibility violation.

“A student could well be charged with an Honor Code violation for use of a fake I.D. on campus. He
certainly will be charged with a Code of Responsibility violation, because you are not dealing with other members of the
college community in an honorable way. Not only are you misrepresenting yourself, but you are also financially jeopardizing the person
who lets you in down at the fraternity house or in the 900 Room.

“The chief distinction between the Honor Code and the Code of Responsibility is that you are honor-bound to turn in
an Honor Code violation, and you are responsible to turn in a Code of Responsibility violation,” Terry said.

Asked whether the Honor Council’s role changes in response to its added responsibility, or new North Carolina law, Honor Council
president senior Michael Holt said, “Practically, we haven’t had any instances so far that have really dealt with changes in
the new drinking law, but I do think it has an effect on the Honor Code and the honor system.”

Holt said, “The Honor Council’s role has not changed, but I could envision problem areas.” He cited use of false
identification and lying to campus security officers. “It’s the whole idea of having to deceive people to get alcohol,” he
said.

According to Holt, “The role of the Council...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

has not changed, but the new laws create potential for more activity. The Honor Council is not a policing force
— we're not there to enforce North Carolina laws. We're not there to enforce any laws beyond the Honor Code
and the Code of Responsibility, and they haven't changed. Maybe that new responsibility to try student organizations can be considered
a change, but it hasn’t come up yet.”

“I think the role of the Council is always the same — to seek out the truth and to deliver
a sanction if a sanction is necessary, and that role will never change no matter what happens to North Carolina
state law,” Holt said.

Holt noted, “One of my concerns is trying to make sure we keep the Honor Code and Code of Responsibility
separate from North Carolina state law.”

Trustees approve study

By JIM DILLON

The Board of Trustees last week unanimously approved the finance committee’s recommendation “to review the endowment investment policy, now seven
years old, in light of current conditions and the earnest concerns expressed by faculty and students” and to appoint advisers
to assist the committee which will report back to the Board at its next meeting in February.

The current policy regarding investments allows the investing of college money in companies who do business with South Africa. A
statement released by the board in 1979, when the present policy was adopted, states: “We are very grateful for the
seriousness of the deliberations,” noting that many obviously “took this to heart,” according to Kuykendall. “Many of them commented to
me that this is one of the great things about Davidson — that we can have a serious hearing.”

Kuykendall said he expects that the committee will undertake a great deal of data gathering in the review period in
order to “test the adequacy” of the current policy. He said he expects the committee to survey developments on the
issue at other colleges, to study differences in college investments through a number of approaches and to study the stance
taken by the Presbyterian Church (USA) on the issue.

“The board is considering the whole situation,” John Kuykendall, president of the college, said. “I have the impression that they
are taking very seriously the sentiments expressed by the students and the faculty, and they are very grateful for the
way that they were expressed. One reason for the decision to study the issue further is that Davidson College spoke
with several voices. They are working toward a consensus. That is not to say that they will satisfy everyone’s wishes,
but it represents a serious hearing.”

Kuykendall said, “My perception is that circumstances have changed in regard to South Africa in relation to apartheid and within
this community regarding what is the appropriate response.” Kuykendall said the open forum and faculty resolution in which a majority
of the faculty advocated its support for divestment both impacted the committee’s decision. The committee was grateful for the seriousness
of the deliberations, noting that many obviously took this to heart, according to Kuykendall. “Many of them commented to me
that this is one of the great things about Davidson — that we can have a serious hearing.”

— Continued on page 2

Sports: IMAC news debuts as weekly feature

Opinions: Bias against co-ed dining examined

Page 12

Page 13
