Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The mere nettles rut: Bulb-changer gets rich in Vegas Along the Strip

By GRAND MASTER MELLE MEL

Joe Westinghouse, a neon-light changer for the 96x59 foot spectacular in front of Club Jackpot, plans to retire after winning
five million at keno last night here in Las Vegas. Reached at his suburban home today, Westinghouse greeted reporters in
his backyard. Asked what he was going to do with all that money, he said, “I’m moving back to my
hometown, Davidson, N.C. The people are great there. I got started light-changing when I worked for Bubba Cashion’s filling station
as a hose-jockey. He always made me climb up into the Gulf sign and change the lights. I owe it
all to him.”

When he gets back to Davidson, he plans to install a guitar-shaped swimming pool, which will be Westinghouse’s first purchase
with his winnings. “I’ve always wanted one of these things, but I wonder if it will fit in my backyard.
Oh well, I’ll just buy Missy and John’s house,” Westinghouse said. “This cash means I'll go on to every gambler’s
dream city, Monte Carlo,” Westinghouse said. He also revealed plans for an extended pilgrimage to singer Elvis Presley’s home, Graceland.
“Now that I’m a star, I hope Priscilla will see me.”

“My old buddy Tom Clark called me right away to congratulate me. He said he’s going to make his next
gnome look like me. What a guy!” added Westinghouse. “Yeah, when I was a kid, I used to play on
Davidson’s campus. I used to tease all the dogs... is Wompus still around?” Asked if he knew any of the
professors, he replied, “I met that real old guy Chalmers. Davidson used to be a real bore. Now I hear
they have chicks and all. Moving back is great. I ain’t never gonna change another light bulb,” Westinghouse said.

The On Golden Blonde

By HOTTEN BOTHERED

This week’s film, On Golden Blonde, leaves the viewer hanging. In another one of his never-ending attempts to keep Union
attendance at a peak this year, Rob Vaughn has finally o.k.’d what this reviewer considers to be the finest of
the Fine Film series. In conjunction with the recently conceived Human Sexuality Week, the series convincingly promises to raise Davidson's
level of bareness awareness.

Blonde is a penetrating docudrama, exposing a radically new position on the changing relationships between modern man and woman. The
action is fast-paced and driving while the often emotive dialogue virtually oozes with passion. Love Auditorium certainly was this week.
Concerning character development; Well... everyone’s character was definitely developed. Lotta Fish, the film's leading lady, was perhaps the most developed,
a veritable Canon of Proportion. (Boy, would Henry Fonda have died for a few frames with this one. If he
hadn’t died, that is.) Her leading man, John Homely, did his part as well, never disappointing the audience let alone
Lotta. Kudos also go to the lone cameraman who must have really stretched himself in order to capture all the
intricacies and undulations in the action which make this film so viewable. His superlative job of panning (panting?) the shots
added immensely to the storyline, not to mention the soundtrack. How did he do it? I’m guessing lots of practice
and lots of hours in the darkroom.

One criticism; On Golden Blonde: I was never actually sure where the climax occurred, or if it occurred at all.
Perhaps this was because the screen kept fogging up.

---

Note: The text has been cleaned up for readability while preserving the original meaning and punctuation.Any case, aside from all
the ups and downs and ins and outs, On Golden Blonde gets a definite thumbs up. And hey! Powers that
Be at the Union, thanks for daring to be daring. We love ya and Lotta loves ya! Your entertainment dollar

Luk 1 6 St gee tray eae: a unas 1b shee preahre nee Ss UNITE TwIS BOTT IS LEGAL "CNOER
FOR ALL OLOTS PUBLIC AD HRIVATE pater Ssenion ta fige Dy SESTES = EWE: WOO RE: | Wis tinct raph
by Brooke Knught ul ~~ ~ - = = Ss ee 6 7 ae/ Gn Be ae | Aja 6.
i) ] or | |c 5.07 A Slo 110 47% ; 1 ga rg care grow wee’ Ot > sant
ral ney Edt wie con ? aoxet

Genocide cranks out tough neo-Nazi rock
Heinrich Von Werner

It is rare that a rock band can combine musical expertise, fanatical followers, warped political and social views, and sheer
bad taste into a frightening, yet exciting success formula. Genocide, a new international rock band, has done just that. A
thinly veiled facade for the religious neo-Nazi revisionist organization N.F.J., Genocide is anything but apolitical. No two members are from
the same country, with lead singer Henry Eichman hailing from the American mid-west, bassist Jo-Jo Geobels from W. Germany, guitarist
Benito Antonio from Italy, and drummer Jose Mengele (known to friends only as “Doc”) claiming to be “from somewhere in
South America.”

Following a smashing tour of the Middle East, which ended with the band’s arrest in Tel Aviv, the group went
back to their studio in Berchestgarten to record their appalling new effort, Back to Dachau. After various battles with record
censors (within their record company), the album is finally here in the States. For the band, the record is a
triumph, musically. From the symphonic Wagner-influenced “Triumph of the Will,” to the sublime bluesy acoustic instrumental, “Mass Grave Reinvention,” this
expansive album broadens Genocide’s musical spectrum from their early hard-core punk days. But the points where this musical maturity scores
turn reviewers’ (like this one) opinions from positive (black) to negative (red) only after examining the extensive lyric sheet.

Until this year when the P.M.R.C. made it necessary for all bands to print their lyrics, no one really knew
what Eichman was screaming behind Antonio's screeching guitar attack. In fact, I always thought their early hit, “The Oven Still
Burns” was about a fiery, sordid affair (between two lovers, I mean). But Genocide has decided to come out of
the closet and declare their special brand of prejudice to the world. The result is some of the worst taste
on vinyl (without ketchup, I might add). This tastelessness oozes most apparently on the single, “Midnight Train to Auschwitz,” a
jangling rockabilly number. Almost as bad is “Treblinka Sunrise,” a trashy, yet stirring ballad of an SS trooper who defends
his post from the Red Army — and pays dearly.

But the band has enough sensibility to know how unrealistically extreme their own views are and they make this clear
in the beautifully cascading cut “My Baby’s a Lampshade.” Racism aside, Back to Dachau is a marvelous record. If not
for its musical breadth, then for its exploration into the dark recesses of the human psyche. It is not a
record to be taken seriously; nor is it a record to be laughed at. It should merely be accepted or
rejected on the basis of what it is or is not. Genocide is so bad that they deserve a place
in the souls of devoted rock fans everywhere.
