10—THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
John Gathings, Editor Emeritus
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Jim Dillon, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Mark Chen, Features Editor
Lee Eichelberger, Inside Art Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Susan Wilkins, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Wishes

As this is the last Davidsonian before the Christmas break, we once again present our annual Christmas wish list. In
making these hopeful requests, we considered only the best interests of Davidson College as a whole.

1) New chairs in Chambers — With all the money being spent on a new sports coliseum, it seems funds
could be found for some comfortable, quiet chairs for the many classrooms in Chambers. What better aid to education could
be granted to Davidson than chairs that allowed students to be comfortable and attentive and did not drown out the
voice of the instructor?

2) Mercy from the outdoor maintenance staff — We realize the maintenance crew works hard to maintain the beautiful campus
we all enjoy and we applaud their efforts. All we ask is that they find other tasks for their morning
labor (until 10:30 a.m.) and stop running chainsaws, leaf blowers, and trash vacuums next to the dorms and waking students
desperately sleeping.

3) Three-week Christmas vacation — The terms at Davidson rush through a semester’s worth of work in ten weeks. As
the academic terms constantly press the students and faculty, why can’t the vacations be languid? With a two-week break, students
and faculty must be rushed even when on vacation. Come on, give us a real break!

4) A permanent conference — Santa Claus came early for the athletic department and left a one-year extension for Davidson’s
Southern Conference membership. Hopefully, he will return Christmas Eve with a permanent solution to Davidson’s hopelessly scrambled athletic woes. Somebody
remember to hang a stocking in Johnston Gym over break.

5) A shuttle service from Knox dorm to Chambers — The trio of dorms affectionately known as “sophomore year abroad”
would not be so undesirable without the long walk. A shuttle service — by golf cart, bus, Cushman, or monorail
— would satisfy the fondest wish of all Knox, Irwin, and Akers residents.

6) A parking garage — Davidson now has ample parking, but anyone who drives a car regularly certainly gets perturbed
at walking the expanse from the Irwin parking lot. A five-story parking garage next to Belk dorm would solve the
problem nicely. Of course, wish number five would work just as well. Also, all real schools have parking garages.

7) Cable television in the dorms — Now that the residents of Sentelle have a lounge, they join the residents
of the other dorms in hoping for televisions that have a clear picture. Cable television in the dorms would also
decrease competition between MTVers and ESPNers in the union.

8) Laser Tag as an IMAC sport — This is the ultimate Yuppie sport — taking the simple game of
tag and making it a $35 to $45 per person game — and would fit perfectly in this extremely Yuppie-ish
campus. Besides, no referees would be needed.

Merry Christmas!

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149.fices located on the top floor of the Grey
Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the
editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising
rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, David Bearce, Betsy Bryan, Maria Douglas, Wendy Dunn, Laura Gabel, Penelope Hughes, Lucia Kendall, Aaron Levine,
Sarah Longely, Ed Matthews, Tom Moore, Ray Thornton, David Van Pelt, David Williams, Ted Wilson.

Features Staff: Lee Eichelberger, Jessica Fisher, Scott Goodwin, Chris Hargrove, Steve Mank, Diana Miller.

Sports Staff: Rick Case, Boyd Coggins, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wilkins.

Photography Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda Higbie, Penelope Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, Matt Yaun.

Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill.

Production Staff: Beth Bryson, Kim Craig, Amelia Fox, Gates Grainger, Robert Grzeszczak, Pete Mangone, Jamie McAden, Tom Moore, Ibby Sowell,
Kathryn Strickland, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yarbrough.

Circulation Staff: Lucia Kendall.

Wednesday, December 3, 1986

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cloudt’s view

WHAT REALLY HAPPENED TO THE 1986-87 YEARBOOK

Letters

To the Editors:

I must disagree with Mr. Covington’s letter that appeared in the last issue. First of all, he must not have
carefully read the editorial which he criticized so strongly, or he would not be calling himself a demon. The editorial
said that most people give generously but some donors are “demons.” Since Mr. Covington claims he gives without demands, he
should not consider himself a “demon.” I ask him to please read more carefully in the future.

In his letter, Mr. Covington wrote, “Davidson is for students present, past and future. It is for faculty and staff,
friends and town-people.” I have some questions. How come the Board of Trustees, the body that makes the major decisions
for the College, consists of approximately 70 percent alumni, yet not one person from the community is on the Board?
Why is the president of the Alumni Association a member of the Board of Trustees ex officio but not the
chairman of the faculty? It seems to me that voices of our students past are more strongly represented than any
other when Davidson has to make a major decision.

I must also argue against Mr. Covington’s point that student opinion is not ignored. When many Davidson students and faculty
urged that the College divest from companies that are in South Africa, the Trustees decided to study the matter further.
Student and faculty opinion was ignored. The exit from the Southern Conference is another issue where student opinion was ignored.
Only two students were on the committee that decided that Davidson football should go to the Colonial League and thus
get the college kicked out of the Southern Conference, and neither one were varsity athletes, the students most affected by
this move. When objections were raised by the students, the only justification I have heard is that we will become
more competitive in football. This leaves many of the students’ questions unanswered. In a decision that concerns present and future
students, their opinions have been ignored.

The Davidsonian’s editorial should not be ignored as Mr. Covington suggests, but it most likely will be.

Perry Mathewes

Mistake Correction

Dr. Robert Cathey’s wife was incorrectly identified in last week's issue as Laura. Her first name is Barbara.
