10—Friday, February 7, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcats rally to down VMI’s Keydets

By BOYD COGGINS

The Cats overcame a sluggish start last Saturday night to win their ninth straight home game as they defeated the
Keydets from VMI 75-68. The win boosted the Cats' record to 6-3 in the conference and 13-7 overall.

VMI built an early 7-0 lead three minutes into the game before Davidson scored its first points on two free
throws by senior Gerry Born. The Keydets extended their lead to 11-2 before Born hit the Cats’ first field goal
with 15 minutes and 20 seconds left in the half. The Cats continued to sputter offensively as VMI’s man-to-man defense
closed off Davidson’s passing lanes. The Keydets intercepted several Davidson passes which they converted into easy baskets.

With nine minutes and 47 seconds left in the half, VMI built a 21-8 lead which left the 2,300 Davidson
faithful in shock. Through the first 11 minutes of the game, Davidson scored only two field goals. At this point,
the Cats got on track as sophomore point guard Derek Rucker buried an 18-foot jump shot. He was fouled after
the shot which gave Davidson the ball out of bounds. Then junior forward Ace Tanner buried a jumper from the
top of the key to cut the deficit to nine at 21-12 with 8:25 left in the half.

The Cats continued their aggressive offensive attack for the remainder of the half by outscoring the Keydets 12-2 to reduce
the deficit to only three at halftime, 29-26. The Cats continued their hot

Davidson Women crush Meredith at home

By MIKE ADAMS

After a close first half, the Lady Cats blew out Meredith College in the second behind the shooting of freshman
center Lavetta Dawkins and junior forward Jennifer Artman to notch a 69-52 home victory.

Meredith played tough in the first half, but was hurt by early foul trouble. They put the Cats in the
bonus at the 12:25 mark. Davidson used Meredith’s foul trouble to good advantage. The Lady Cats hit some free throws
and attacked the Meredith defense more effectively in the last 12 minutes of the half to build a 30-26 lead.

The Lady Cats wore Meredith down in the second half. Using various zone defenses, Davidson forced several turnovers. Both Dawkins
and Artman deflected several passes that led to Meredith turnovers. The Lady Cats went up by 10 at the 15:34
mark and had built the lead to 17 with 6:42 left in the game. Meredith made a run at this
point and cut the lead to nine with four minutes left. Davidson turned them back, however, with good defensive pressure
and scoring from Dawkins and settled for a 17-point victory.

Dawkins finished with 18 second-half points to give her a game-high 28. Junior center Pam Harmann scored seven of her
nine points in the second half and Jennifer Artman hit 10 second-half points to give her 21 for the game.
The victory moved the Lady Cats to 7-6 on the season, while Meredith dropped to 6-4. Davidson played without junior
Heather McKee who missed the game because of sickness.

AIR FORCE ALWAYS NEEDS MORE LEADERS.

We're looking for pilots... navigators... missileers... engineers... math majors... scientists... journalists... and more. And the Air Force is a great
way to get into a skill like one of these which can help you improve your leadership ability and your
professional competence. As a commissioned officer in the Air Force, you can be proud of the role you play in
the community and the contribution you make to your country's security, knowing that you're doing something of importance, somethingWith responsibility,
ROTC achieves these goals. As an ROTC cadet, you'll learn about leadership, management, and more. You'll learn about the benefits
of being an officer later on, like an excellent salary, medical care, housing and food allowances, and 30 days of
vacation with pay each year. You'll discover a gateway to a great way of life through AFROTC. Look into it
right away. You'll be glad you did. AFROTC offers a way to help you achieve these goals and contribute to
our country’s security.

In the second half, the Cats started strong, outscoring VMI 10-2 to take a 36-31 lead with 15 minutes left
in the game. During this streak, they got four points each from Rucker and Tanner, as well as a fast-break
layup by sophomore forward Jeff Himes. The Cats extended their advantage to 14 points when junior Chris Heineman hit two
free throws with seven minutes left in the game. They built this lead by playing aggressive man-to-man defense, which forced
the Keydets to take bad outside shots and commit several turnovers. Tanner’s defense of VMI’s leading scorer, Gay Elmore, was
excellent as he forced the sharpshooter to miss badly on several shots, to the delight of the crowd.

From the 13-point deficit, Davidson outscored the Keydets 49-22 to take the lead at 57-36. In this comeback stretch, they
hit 16-19 field goals for a sizzling 84 percent. The Cats stayed on top for the rest of the game
by hitting clutch foul shots and by working the ball inside for layups. VMI made a late run by cutting
the Cats' lead to five points with 30 seconds left in the game. But it was too little too late
for the Keydets as Rucker finished them off by making both ends of a one-and-one to preserve the seven-point margin
of victory.

For the game, Davidson hit an outstanding 57.5 percent of their field goal attempts by going 27-47. The Cats had
three men in double figures in scoring, with Rucker, the team’s top scorer at 13.0 ppg, leading the way with
21 points. He was followed by Himes and Heineman, who had 15 and 12 points respectively. The Cats’ defense also
forced the Keydets to turn the ball over 20 times while Davidson only committed 13 of their own.

Of special interest in this game was the halftime shooting contest held at every Davidson home game. In this contest,
junior Steve Bradley, who is the starting quarterback on the football team, won a trip for two to Nassau in
the Bahamas when he swished a shot from half-court. However, NCAA regulations will not allow him to claim this fun-in-the-sun
vacation.

This victory put the Cats in third place in the conference before Monday night’s game against Marshall. They trailed Marshall
and UT-Chattanooga by only one game with seven games yet to be played.

National College Marketing Company Seeks Individual Or Campus Group to Work Part Time 1-800-592-2121

Please don't miss... The Preservation Hall Jazz Band Friday, February 7, 8 pm Love Auditorium Students/Faculty/Staff - $5.00 General Admission
- $10.00

IN GOD WE TRUST GOD AND COUNTRY with this distinctive, beautifully designed T-Shirt with our American symbol — the eagle.
AMERICA’S T-SHIRT Wear it, showing you are proud to be an American and able to worship God as you choose.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED! T-SHIRT $6.95 — SWEATSHIRTS: HOODED $15.95, CREW $12.95. SIZES: S-M-L-XL-CHILD. ADD $1 POSTAGE PER ITEM + 4% NC
TAX. TO: IN GOD WE TRUST, INC., P.O. BOX 18088, ASHEVILLE, NC 28814-0088. INQUIRIES BY MAIL OR PHONE 704-253-6082. Show
your belief in America.
