8  
Who's on first?

Some more awards for college bowl games

By ANDY BARRON

This holiday season allowed college football junkies a seemingly endless supply of their favorite pastime. Though Oklahoma won the Paul “Bear” Bryant trophy as the national champions on New Year’s Day by beating Penn State in the Orange Bowl, the Sooners were the achievers of note over the holidays’ bowl-game marathon. In recognition of some truly memorable and forgettable accomplishments, here are some awards you won’t see anywhere else.

The Much More Exciting Game than Anticipated Award — The All-American Bowl which saw Georgia Tech drive for a touchdown with only a minute to go to beat Michigan State 17-10. Tech won despite the fact that starting quarterback John Dewberry and two first-string receivers had been suspended from playing. Honorable Mention — Army’s 31-29 win over Illinois in the Peach Bowl.

The Sominex Substitute Snooze-Bowl Award — Alabama’s penalty-ridden 24-3 Aloha Bowl win over 6-6 Southern California.

The Lack of Sportsmanship Award — Texas A&M coach Jackie Sherrill for scoring on the last play of the Cotton Bowl despite the fact that the Aggies were already beating Auburn 29-16.

The New Year’s Day Goat Award — Iowa State running back Ronnie Harmon cost his team any chance of winning the Rose Bowl by fumbling four times and dropping a pass in the end zone. UCLA beat Iowa 45-28.

The John Cappelletti Overachiever Award — Air Force, a team with no players recruited actively by other schools, finished 12-1 after beating Texas 24-16 in the Bluebonnet Bowl.

The Can’t Win All the Time Award — Penn State quarterback John Shaffer saw his 54-game streak of winning every game he started since seventh grade come to an end in Penn State’s 25-10 Orange Bowl loss to Oklahoma.

The Big Choke Award — Arizona field goal kicker Max Zendejas, who had been a hero many times before, missed a 39-yard field goal that would have won the Sun Bowl for Arizona. Instead, Arizona tied Georgia 13-13. Honorable Mention — The Miami Hurricanes.

The Rather Be Inside Watching It On TV Award — To Illinois and Army for their Peach Bowl battle in the mud, rain, and cold in Atlanta. Though the teams toughed it out and played, most of the fans stayed home, thereby baring approximately the same number of seats as the Atlanta Braves left empty last September.

The Waste of Time and Money Award — To the Orange Bowl halftime show which lasted about 45 minutes and must have cost a fortune. The only good thing about this extravaganza was that fans watching the game on TV got some time to watch the Sugar Bowl on another channel.

The Bacardi Bowl Memorial Unnecessary Game Award — In honor of the above bowl game that saw only one playing in Puerto Rico, this award could actually go to about a half-dozen games. The winner is the Holiday Bowl with the Rose Bowl as honorable mention.

The Conference Domination Award — The Big Ten has now won 11 of the last 12 and 15 of the last 17 Rose Bowls over the Pac-10 despite the fact that 11 times in the 17 years the Big Ten has had the higher-ranked team. This year 13th-ranked UCLA destroyed fourth-ranked Iowa 45-28.

The Good As His Older Brother Award — Michigan’s Jamie Morris, brother of the New York Giants’ superstar running back Joe Morris, rushed for 156 yards on 27 carries to aid the Wolverines’ 27-23 win over Nebraska in the Fiesta Bowl.

The Barry Switzer Blow Your Own Horn Award — Miami coach Jimmy Johnson spent so much effort saying how his team should win the national championship if Penn State lost, that he failed to lead his team to victory in the Sugar Bowl. Tennessee humbled Miami 35-7, clearing any controversy over who should be the national champion. Switzer, who mouthed his way to an Orange Bowl loss to Washington last year, kept quiet and won the national championship this season. Better luck next year Jimmy.

Friday, January 10, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

To Everyone Who Contributed to The First Ever Union/Davidsonian Canned Food Drive

We Raised Over $200 and Collected 70 Cans Of Food For Crisis Assistance

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental, and spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to help each individual child develop his or her potential should apply. One must have the ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities. College students, teachers, and coaches should apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery, and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing, and tripping are extras in our excellent program. For further information write or call G. William Climer, Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 7, Box 50, Clover, S.C., 29710 (803-831-2121).

Buy ONE Sandwich Sub or Sandwich Roll Get SECOND at HALF PRICE (Second must be same or lesser price.) One coupon per order. Coupon expires Jan. 18, 1986. Located between I-77 & Cashion’s In Cornelius

Michaels

Mon.-Thurs. 10-8 p.m., Fri. & Sat. 10-8 p.m.

892-4033 Carryout