10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
John Sale, Editor Emeritus
Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Jim Dillon, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Mark Chen, Features Editor
Lee Eichelberger, Inside Art Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Susan Wilkins, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Semesters. The quarter system has to go. Semesters—what most of academia uses—should be in Davidson’s future. Pedantic measures like having
the same classes all five days of the week reek of (gasp!) high school. The buzzer has become a memory,
hopefully, and 10-week terms soon only should be mentioned in sentences that begin with, “Remember when...”

Students are herded and hurried like cattle to slaughter with the current system. The juggernaut term steams headlong and students
rush to catch up with it. Miss two days due to illness now and you’re six classes behind. You will
have missed all of the discussion on Lord Byron in your English class; you will have missed Picasso in your
art survey class; you will have missed American foreign policy during the 60s in your political science class. If we
had a semester system which worked on a Monday-Wednesday-Friday / Tuesday-Thursday schedule, you would have missed only one class period
in each of your four subjects.

If we had semesters, professors would have a chance to fully explain their subjects instead of being hurried by short
class periods. Students would be able to concentrate on fewer subjects for greater periods of time. As it stands now,
a student’s daily schedule is set, and it is the same every day. With semesters, the schedule demands variety, and
gives students the ability to have larger (albeit fewer) blocks of free time. These larger blocks of non-scholastically related time
will allow for greater creativity, as well as a clearer understanding of class work. One is more inclined to scribble
a few lines of poetry if he/she has two hours to work on it rather than only one.

The school year would start earlier and end earlier and allow for longer vacations. Instead of the scant two weeks
for Christmas allowed us now, three to four weeks would be possible. The lengthened vacation would most likely be followed
by the oh-so-liberal-arts “January term,” an opportunity for internships, study abroad and classes not usually taken.

Another advantage of semesters comes in the form of transferring credit, an important topic for transfer students and those with
the desire to get away from Davidson for a while, such as a semester abroad in the junior year. Right
now administrative hassles needlessly hinder would-be student-travelers and transfers alike.

There will be those who will hold on to the tradition of terms, and claim that it is somewhat noble
to keep up with every class every day. They will claim that it makes Davidson unique amongst very good liberal
arts colleges. Davidson is unique enough without having to rely on high school structures such as quarters.

Semesters force maturity. Instead of being spoon-fed material every day, the student will have to organize his/her time better. It
will allow one to work ahead, and it will be much easier to catch up. Davidson needs semesters. They are
good for the school, good for the professors and good for the students.

Friday, November 7, 1986

THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE SEMESTER DEBATE

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of
the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates.
Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held.by the Trustees of Davidson College. News Staff: Laura Ballenger, David Bearce, Betsy Bryan,
Mark Chen, Wendy Dunn, Laura Gabel, Penelope Hughes, Lucia Kendall, Aaron Levine, Ed Matthews, Tom Moore, Ray Thornton, David Van
Pelt, David Williams, Ted Wilson. Features Staff: Lee Eichelberger, Scott Goodwin, Chris Hargrove, Steve Mank, Diana Miller. Sports Staff: Rick
Case, Boyd Coggins, Pam Harmann, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wilkins. Photography Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda Higbie, Penelope Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyong
Lee, Matt Yaun. Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill. Production Staff: Sarah Bayne, Beth Bryson, Amelia Fox, Pete Mangone, Tom
Moore, Ibby Sowell, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yarbrough. Circulation Staff: Lucia Kendall.

THEY VOTED 1%

Letters ©1956 THE DAVIDSONIAN

To the Editors:

When I purchased the M & M Soda Shop from Mary Potts last November, I promised Mary one thing —
that I would use the same recipes she had always used. I have kept that promise. The following items are
fact:

1) All our food prepared based on Mary Potts' original recipes is prepared as Mary taught me.
2) The most important thing to me is that our customers are satisfied. We ask that question of our customers
several hundred times a day. How we prepare our food greatly depends on what our customers say. In regard to
our “Special,” the recipe is exactly as Mary Potts gave it to me. We shred the lettuce and ham now
because our customers have asked us to — it’s easier to bite and chew and it’s tastier.
3) Third and lastly, I think it’s very unfortunate that you, the editors, would print your opinions based not on
all the facts, but on your own interpretations. And I also think it’s unfortunate that I, as a merchant serving
the Davidson community, would learn of your discontent with the food I serve in a published editorial, rather than you
stepping up and voicing it to me personally so I could make appropriate compensation.

Ann C. Overcash

Editors’ note: Upon receiving this letter, we ventured to the M & M to give the “Special” one more chance.
We must report that it was as good as ever. However, we had to eat take-out due to the smell
of fried food and sounds of MTV, not bad things in themselves, but improper ambience for the M & M.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we will adhere
to the following guidelines:
- The letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. the Tuesday before the expected publication date.
- The letters must be neatly typed.
- The letters should be signed. You must have a compelling reason if you do not want your name printed
with the letter.
- We reserve the right not to print letters which are advertisements, contain inside jokes or off-color slurs, or represent
a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed on the same topic.

The Davidsonian's “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions
on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community. We adhere to the following guidelines:
- Any opinion should be in to us by 7 p.m. the Monday before publication, unless it is typed on
an IBM 5.25” diskette, in which case it is due by 5 p.m. Tuesday.
- We accept typed and legibly written articles only.
- Opinions should be signed. We will only print unsigned ones if there is a compelling reason and the author
is known to us (the editors).
- We will not edit opinions for content or style, but for common English usage only. We will inform the
author of substantial changes.
- Because of limited space, sometimes we are not able to print all opinions submitted in one issue. We reserve
the right to select articles from those we receive for publication. We will attempt to print any withheld article the
following week.
