The Davidsonian
December 17, 1986

College Bowl matches played, Prague and Cough go on

By MARK CHEN

On Monday night, the last of the semifinal matches were played out in the College Bowl Intramurals. The previous matches had left six teams still in the race for the College Bowl Championship: Defenestration of Prague; Dikaphobic Heteroclites; Kenneth, What is the Frequency?; Mindless Vegetables; Section VIII; and Turn Your Head and Cough. Of the six, Defenestration of Prague and Turn Your Head and Cough were still undefeated. The two teams left after Monday would go to the final playoff. They would be decided on the basis of double-elimination.

In the 900 Room, Kenneth, What is the Frequency? took on Section VIII. Kenneth, What is the Frequency? was playing under a handicap, with their captain junior Beth Parker away in Scotland. The team had tried to solve the problem with a novel recruitment. Before the match, they had talked to John Savarese, head of the Computer Services Center and holder of a Ph.D. from Princeton. He had agreed to play for their team on Monday. Because he was taking courses at Davidson, the team’s captain argued that Dr. Savarese was a student. Savarese’s eligibility was firmly denied by Dr. Hansford Epes. KWIF would have to play the match without his services.

The first half finished with a tie at 105 points. Section VIII was ably led by juniors Shane Meeks, its captain, and Danny Michaelis. Meeks won a toss-up for Section VIII with his knowledge of Duran Duran. The second half saw a dramatic turnaround. KWIF pulled into a decisive lead from the efforts of sophomore John Nohow and Contrariwise Annen and Joe Louderback, a freshman with no College Bowl experience. KWIF won with a score of 225 to 110.

In the Morrison Room, Dikaphobic Heteroclites took on the Mindless Vegetables. The match was extremely close. DH won, but only by a razor-thin margin of 155 to 145. The Mindless Vegetables were out of the race.

The next round had the Defenestration of Prague against Turn Your Head and Cough. Defenestration of Prague is a team that has played before in the intramurals. It is rich with proven veterans such as seniors Ted Davis and Dudley Beil. Another strong point is its captain, junior Buddy Martin. Turn Your Head and Cough also had the benefit of old players in seniors Julian Wright and Fred Higgins. The matchup was even, but DP won with a comfortable edge of 195 to 120. The victory ensured DP of a playoff berth.

At the same time, DH was taking on KWIF. The match finished with a low score, DH winning against KWIF at 130 to 80. KWIF was also out. DH moved on to another match which would decide the opponent of DP in the finals. TYH&C and DH met in the 900 Room. TYH&C took an early and almost decisive lead in the first half. Sophomore John Hutchinson on TYH&C helped them the most in this effort. DH fought back hard and put the game back up for grabs. TYH&C still won with a score of 200 to 155.

Defenestration of Prague and Turn Your Head & Cough are now set for the final matchup. Dikaphobic Heteroclites will have to comfort themselves with third place. With no losses, Defenestration of Prague would have to be beaten twice by Turn Your Head & Cough if they are to be denied the title. The championship round will probably take place on the second Monday after Christmas break. Both teams should check the College Bowl.Corner in the Union for details. As usual, all the teams in the playoffs had a high amount of talent. For those players who may want to be on the Davidson College Bowl team, they should wait till next year. At some time the invitations will go out for talented players spotted throughout the intramurals. A player who was not in the playoffs may still get a bid. Try-outs will be held to fill at least two or three of the positions on the team. The openings are there, so everybody should be ready.

The possibilities of immortality
By STEVE MANK

Okay, this is absolutely for real, so you better sit down: THERE ARE MORE PEOPLE ALIVE TODAY THAN PEOPLE WHO HAVE DIED. Can you believe it? That means that the odds are better than even that each and every person reading this newspaper is alive. It means that more than 50 percent of all people ever have lived forever — so far. In other words, if the odds are any indication — and I do believe they are — you have a pretty good stab at immortality.

The most disturbing result of such an unlikely event occurring, of course, is the inevitable confusion that will occur at retirement home dances. The band will have to be able to play Glenn Miller as well as Bon Jovi. Better yet, performers like Phil Collins, whose popularity has long since waned, will be forced to eke out a living in some Vegas cabaret. The advantage for Phil, as his gnarled hands roll his wheelchair slowly towards the microphone, is that his audience will be just as bald as he.

Another disturbing result of what I like to call the immortality thing is the way buses will change. At the very back of the bus will be a little sign which reads, “Please Reserve These Seats For Junior Citizens.” The seniors, however, will pay scant attention to the juniors. As I see it, gangs with names like the Redwoods will appear whose sole mission will be to terrorize youngsters. Traveling in rocket-powered wheelchairs, the bands of hoary killers will terrorize innocent youths.

Pruneskin: Hey punk, whatcha doin’?
Kid: Who me? Uh, nothin’.
Pruneskin: How ’bout you play me some shuffleboard.
Kid: Um, I better go, I gotta play uh football.
Pruneskin: Football, huh? (spits) Sounds healthy. Sure you wouldn’t rather play a little canasta?
Kid: I think I’ll leave now. (But before the kid can go, the gang gives him the treatment which, suffice it to say, is an ugly episode involving Metamucil).

In response to the increased violence, there will be commercials on TV that say things like, “Be nice to kids; they’ve got — well — inexperience.” Some of the more enlightened oldsters will talk about the incredible respect the Japanese have for their young.

The most bizarre change will come to what was once known as the afterlife. Quite simply, people will stop going to Heaven and Hell. The seats of eternal damnation and bliss will be relegated to handling the inevitable overflow of the seat of eternal regular-old-stuff. But the change I most look forward to — the one thing that will make life worth living — better than the handicapped parking lots, better than the crossword puzzle emporiums, better, even, than being able to take my own blood pressure and say “hmm, no change,” will be the most magical of gifts that can accompany immortality: no more health food.