4 |

Beyond Davidson
Reagan-Gorbachev Meeting Ends in Stalemate

(By DAVID WILLIAMS)
Around the World — President Reagan’s meeting with Soviet leader Mikhael Gorbachev in Reykjavik, Iceland ended in a deadlock Sunday
as Reagan refused to comply with Gorbachev’s demand that the U.S. refrain from deploying and testing space-based weapons for ten
years. Reagan said he is ready to resume negotiations, but Gorbachev said Reagan had lacked courage and political will at
Reykjavik to make progress in arms control.

A United Nations official said the last five of the 25 Soviet diplomats ordered expelled by the United States have
left New York for Moscow.

American Eugene Hasenfus, who was captured in Nicaragua while making supply flights to Nicaraguan rebels, said the C.I.A. is directly
involved in the flights. Published reports said that Vice-President George Bush’s security advisor, Max Gomez, had coordinated the flights. Bush
affirmed Gomez’s link to the flights but denied any personal involvement.

A strong earthquake measuring 5.4 on the Richter scale toppled several buildings in San Salvador, El Salvador, killing over 400
people and injuring 6500 more.

French President Francois Mitterand said he does not intend to run for reelection in 1988. Belgian Prime Minister Wilfried Martens
offered his resignation to King Baudouin after failing to resolve a language dispute. Two masked assassins shot and killed West
German Foreign Ministry official Gerold von Braunmuelat at his home in Bonn. The extreme leftist Red Army Faction claimed responsibility
for the killing.

Two U.S. citizens jailed in Yugoslavia on protest-related charges were released by the Yugoslavian government. The State Department said a
third prisoner would soon be released.

Bangladeshi president H.M. Ershad was reelected by a margin of nearly 90 percent, as opponents boycotted the Presidential election amid
indications of widespread fraud and corruption.

The government of Taiwan said it would lift martial law for the first time since Chiang Kai-Shek’s troops retreated there
in 1949.

Iran said its ground and airborne military units devastated oil fields, a power station, and key installations near Kirkuk in
northern Iraq, in a bid to cripple Iraq’s economic lifeline. Iraq said its planes hit Shiraz and Isfahan in Iran.

Elie Wiesel, who survived Nazi death camps and has written extensively on the Holocaust, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.
Three European scientists won the Nobel Prize in physics for their innovations in microscope designs. Two Americans and a Canadian
were awarded the Nobel Prize in chemistry for helping to create the first detailed understanding of chemical reactions.

Across the Nation — The House approved a $576 billion compromise appropriation bill which would increase Federal spending in 1987
by as little as one percent over 1986. The bill includes a military budget of $290 billion, $30 billion less
than the President requested. The House also approved a compromise immigration bill that outlaws the hiring of illegal aliens.

The Senate found federal District Judge Harry Claiborne guilty of income tax evasion and removed him from office in the
first impeachment conviction of a Federal official in 50 years. The Senate also approved a comprehensive $1.7 billion anti-drug bill.

A panel of experts said a fleet of four space shuttles could reach a sustainable rate of only 11 to
13 flights a year, instead of the 16 flights a year currently proposed by NASA. The panel urged NASA to
explore new designs and expressed “serious concern” about the adequacy of the testing program.

Bernadette Chayrez, the only person to receive two artificial hearts, died Saturday as doctors tried to implant a second human
heart in her eighth coronary operation since February.

In Business News — Oil prices dropped to $14.60 a barrel, as OPEC ministers failed to reach an agreement on
a price-support plan. Saudi Arabia and Kuwait issued appeals for a permanent production and pricing program.

The nation’s top business executives predicted the economy will grow by just 2.7 percent this year, while the dollar will
drop by ten percent more than it has already fallen. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige said the U.S. trade deficit is
currently headed for a record $170 billion trade deficit this year.

The Transportation Department tentatively approved Texas Air’s acquisition of People Express.

Wholesale prices rose 0.4 percent while retail sales soared by 4.6 percent in September. New car sales rose 22.6 percent
above last year for the first ten days of October.

Featuring

Hand Rolled and Tossed Pizza (Made While You Watch)
Pizza by the Slice (Until 4pm)
Submarine Sandwiches • Homemade Meatball Sandwiches
Italian Sausage Sandwiches • Tossed Salads

PHONE IN OR TO-GO ORDERS WELCOMED

663-7189

125-2 N. Main St. in The Markade (Behind Magic Rental) Mooresville

Mon.-Thurs. 11am-10pm
Fri. & Sat. 11am-12(midnight)
Sun. 5-10pm

2 Blocks down from What-A-Burger.
If you pass Belk, you’ve gone too far.
