Christian, Schuh Receive Laser Grants

Two Davidson College professors have been awarded grants totaling $81,000 for research with a high-powered pulsed laser. Associate Professor of
Chemistry Merlyn Schuh and Assistant Professor of Physics Wolfgang Christian plan to construct a laser laboratory at Davidson for basic
scientific research that students will participate in.

In April 1986, the National Science Foundation awarded Christian and Schuh a $50,000 grant for the purchase of a laser.
Christian conducted research with lasers this summer at the Air Force Geophysics Laboratory in Boston, Mass., and he anticipates the
Air Force may contribute additional money toward laser research at Davidson. Christian's research interest involves examining how molecules behave in
intensive electric fields. This research is supported by a $15,000 grant made in May 1985 by the North Carolina Board
of Science and Technology. Christian hopes to develop an infrared laser light source as a research tool that is intense
and tunable over a wide spectrum.

Research Corporation, a private, nonprofit foundation that supports basic research in the physical and natural sciences, gave Schuh a $16,000
grant in April 1986 to study the transfer of energy between molecules. The laser will be used to deposit precisely
defined quantities of energy into energy donor molecules from which energy flow into energy acceptor molecules can be followed by
emission of light. The grant is a joint donation from the Exxon Education Foundation and Research Corporation. Funds are also
being supplied by Davidson, and additional funds are being sought for the laboratory.

Christian’s and Schuh’s work has possible applications in the areas of solar energy storage, medicine, communications, quality control of industry,
and development of lasers for use in research.

Shi Receives Fellowship

A history professor at Davidson College has received a $23,000 fellowship from the Huntington Library and Art Gallery in San
Marino, Calif., for the 1986-87 school year. David E. Shi, associate professor of history and author of the 1985 book
"The Simple Life: Plain Living and High Thinking in American Culture," will conduct research for a book to be published
by Oxford University Press about the arts in America in the last half of the 19th century.

Shi has also been awarded a $3,000 grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities to begin work this summer
on the book. In addition, he will work next year on an American history textbook to be published by W.
W. Norton. A paperback edition of "The Simple Life" was issued this spring, and Shi has compiled an illustrated anthology,
titled "In Search of the Simple Life: American Voices Past and Present," which Peregrine Smith Books published in May.

Emergency Rescue Squad to Sponsor Course

An Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) course sponsored by CPCC and the Davidson Emergency Rescue Squad will be taught on campus
in October. The course will consist of six hours of class every week for the next 10 weeks, followed by
a state exam in March. First aid techniques will be taught along with CPR, splinting, etc. Those interested can sign
up at the Union desk, or call Laure (-6058) or Geoff (-6161) for more information.

To: Davidson Faculty, Staff, Students, and Friends
From: Davidson Amnesty
Re: Death of the Son of Veronica DeNegri

We at Davidson are fortunate to know Veronica DeNegri. While she was in Chile, Veronica was detained and brutally tortured
for her union activity in Chile. Amnesty International worked for her release. Upon her release, she settled in the U.S.
She has worked tirelessly for human rights. Through Davidson Amnesty, she came to Davidson last year. She has done public
speaking throughout the U.S. and has represented AI’s concerns in many forums.

This summer came the news that her son was attacked by army forces on July 1, which resulted in his
death. Ms. DeNegri needs our help. Her son, Rodrigo Andres Rojas, age 19, went with a group of about 60
students to the shanty towns outside of Santiago, Chile. The group was demonstrating when an army patrol arrived. The students
fled. One of...the students, Carmen Quintana, age 18, fell and Veronica’s son returned to help her. At this point, government
police began beating the two and threw gasoline on them and set them on fire. It was not until the
next morning when the two were discovered by the mayor in the town of Quilicure about 10 a.m. that they
were taken to a hospital and given medical care. Information about the transport from Santiago to Quilicure is unclear. Because
of his injuries, Veronica’s son was unable to speak. The other student relayed what had happened. Two-thirds of his body
was burned, and most of his face and respiratory system was destroyed. Ms. DeNegri left for Chile July 3 to
be with him. He died the following day. While AI is learning more about what the organization might do, you
in your personal capacity may be able to help Veronica by sending her a check. She needs financial assistance at
this time. Her address is: Veronica DeNegri c/o Isabelle Lettelier, 1901 Q St. NW, Washington, D.C.

News Shorts

Friday, September 19, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

ROTC Rappelling

On Friday, Sept. 12, the Davidson ROTC department ran a rappelling clinic to initiate freshmen (and women) into the joys
of rappelling. Thirty-two members of this year’s freshman class attended. According to Cadet Lt. Dave Archer, “It was the best
turnout we’ve had in years.” The requirements that must be met to receive a P.E. credit in mountaineering (a lifetime
sport) are as follows: the student must do a minimum of eight rappels over two days of rappelling, be proficient
at tying a Swiss seat, and finally pass a written test. Rappelling clinics will be given throughout the year and
are a way to earn a P.E. credit for a lifetime sport. Submitted by the ROTC Department.

Cornelson Family Endows Economics Program

Clinton Mills President George Henry Cornelson IV of Clinton, S.C., and his family have endowed an economics program at Davidson
College for $210,000. Cornelson, his wife, Ann, and their four children, George H. Cornelson V, Martin, Scott, and Elizabeth “Woodie,”
established the Cornelson Family Endowment on May 9. The endowment recognizes and honors six members of the Cornelson family, spanning
four generations, who have studied at Davidson. The endowment supports the Senior Session in Economics, which is the “capstone” course
required of all senior economics majors at Davidson. The course presents a series of speakers from the college and the
broader academic community. In previous years, such economists as Lester Thurow of M.I.T., William Parker of Yale, and Anita Summers
of the University of Pennsylvania participated. “Through the generosity of the Cornelson family, the economics department’s highly successful senior session
will be further enhanced and funded into perpetuity,” said Clark G. Ross, department chairman. “Davidson College, its economics department, and
all future economics majors extend sincere appreciation to the Cornelsons.” The endowment will enable the session to present an eminent
economist each year to the class and the public. Juanita Kreps, former Secretary of Commerce and now James B. Duke
Professor of Economics at Duke University, will deliver the first lecture at 8 p.m. Jan. 14, 1987. The endowment will
also fund other features of the session, such as the publication of the remarks of the eminent economist, a panel
discussion with several economists, and session records.

Election Sign-ups

The Elections Council is currently holding sign-ups for upcoming SGA elections. Candidates for freshman class senators, Patterson Court (and Fiji)
senators, and independent senators may sign up in the Dean of Students’ office until 5 p.m., Tuesday, Sept. 23. There
will be a mandatory meeting of all candidates at 5 p.m. the same day in the Union. Six freshman senators,
including the class president, will be elected as well as one senator from each house and four independents. Elections will
be held Tuesday, Sept. 30 in Chambers and in the Union with run-offs held the following day. If you have
any questions, contact Mickey McDonald (Belk 410, -6422). Contributed by the Elections Council.
