Friday, October 17, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Actor performs Frost

By LUCIA KENDALL

William Brower presented “A Friendly Visit with Mr. Frost” on Monday night in Hodson Hall. Brower recited 15 of Robert Frost’s poems, including “The Road Not Taken,” “Nothing Gold Can Stay,” “Mending Wall,” “Fire and Ice,” “The Witch,” “Stopping By the Woods on a Snowy Evening” (in which he imitated the voice and style of Frost), and “After Apple-Picking.” He interspersed between the selections his own informal, chatty conversation, background information, and humorous anecdotes on the poetry and the life of Robert Frost. He created the friendly, comfortable atmosphere suggested by the title of the program. His appearance and pleasant manner involved the audience in what was more like an intimate after-dinner chat about an old friend than a performance of literary works by a Pulitzer Prize-winning poet.

Brower’s background is in theater; he began his acting career in New York in 1946 and planned to be an actor and director all his life. However, in 1953 he and his wife decided to leave New York, and he began teaching at Princeton Theological Seminary, satisfying his desire to work in drama by occasionally directing at the university theater and by doing summer stock. In 1972 he conceived the idea of creating an evening of Frost’s poetry. “Frost was the poet who most appealed to me,” he said, “for a variety of reasons. He has a very conversational style. He’s easily accessible to any intelligent person; you don’t need a code machine.”

New Professors

By RAY THORNTON

Julio Ramirez

A new addition to the psychology department faculty, Julio Ramirez, Ph.D., comes to Davidson College from a teaching appointment at St. John’s University/University of St. Benedict. Although he is barely moved into his office in the basement of Chambers, Ramirez has already made an important accomplishment at Davidson. Brain Research, a premier journal of neuroscience, according to Ramirez, recently accepted an article prepared by him dealing with his research on the drug ganglioside and its positive effects on brain-damaged rats.

As a teacher of general psychology and physiological psychology, Ramirez said he enjoys “the intellectually aggressive Davidson students,” adding laudatory remarks concerning the availability of Davidson’s faculty as well. When not in the classroom or laboratory, Ramirez may be found in Johnston Gymnasium swimming his daily 2000 yards. Ramirez completed his B.S. in biopsychology at Fairfield University, his M.A. and Ph.D. in biopsychology at Clark University, and post-doctoral studies at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

By LAURA GABEL

During his short stay at Davidson, Professor L. B. McHenry of the philosophy department has found the students to be energetic. “I appreciate their enthusiasm for the subject,” he said. “They’re vigorous and bright by comparison with students in some of the universities I’ve taught in.” McHenry has taught at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland and at Old Dominion in Norfolk, Va. He earned his B.A. and M.A. at the University of Southern Mississippi, did post-graduate work at the London School of Economics, and got his Ph.D. at the University of Edinburgh because “the type of philosophy I was interested in was being done there.” He and his wife reside in Orangeburg, S.C., while on leave from his position at South Carolina State College in Orangeburg, S.C.to figure him out. On the other hand, he is also deep. I think, ideally, that’s the combination poetry should have: to be clear enough, but deep.”

“I’m very happy with what I’m doing. I started out star-struck, like a lot of young kids, wanting to get a name for myself, be famous. But now I have two little grandkids, and being on stage with Frost is all I need. I go to colleges, universities, clubs, church groups, all over the place. I’ve gone on the road to Hawaii, three times to California (Frost was born there, you know), to Texas, and everywhere in between. I figure I’ve performed about 125 times so far. I really do enjoy it very much.”

William Brower reads Frost

Presently McHenry is working on a book titled Experience and Reality. Also, he is helping Professor Victor Lowe write the second volume of Alfred North Whitehead’s intellectual biography. McHenry plans to include Whitehead in his American philosophy class spring term. “I’m also interested in art,” McHenry adds, “I did my undergraduate degree in painting. I draw and paint whenever I can find the time. And I quite like water sports, too.”

By RAY THORNTON

Dr. William Pollans

Dr. William Pollans joined the physics faculty this year as a visiting professor. He earned a B.S. and M.S. from the University of Chicago and his Ph.D. from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Pollans’ published work includes research in soil physics, which he describes as “the study of water flow through soils.” Otherwise, Pollans described himself as “a teacher, not a researcher.” Pollans’ graying hair and wire-rimmed glasses give him a distinct resemblance to the father of modern physics, Albert Einstein, whose photograph hangs on Pollans’ office door. Outside of the classroom, Pollans enjoys “playing with my Commodore 64 computer,” and when at home, tending to his horses and ponies. Having completed all his college work in physics, Pollans...

Ronald Parris, Ph.D., a native of Barbados, West Indies, joined the Davidson Sociology department faculty this year after a seven-year leave from education. During the seven-year interval, Parris worked as a Program Specialist with UNESCO in Paris, France. In charge of development of programs in Third World nations, Parris traveled around the world in the position. Parris returned to education simply because he “missed teaching students.” A fan of jazz, calypso, and short-wave radio, Parris also enjoys writing. His publications include seven magazine articles and three books written in three languages. Parris, who believes the Davidson College trimester system to be “murderous,” said he is “impressed by the conscientiousness of Davidson students.” Parris earned his B.A. in sociology and anthropology from the University of Rochester, his M.A. in sociology from the University of California, Santa Barbara, and his Ph.D. in sociology from Yale University.

Taylor Blackwell
The Village Store
110 S. Main St.

Happy Homecoming Students & Grads!

For two decades sharing occasions with Davidsonians has been a joy!

ATTENTION!
FREE DELIVERY to Davidson Campus!
(704) 892-9010
Hours: Mon-Fri. 9 a.m.-6 p.m.
1 mile past HAM & EGGS on the left
Norman Landing Plaza
Sat. 9 a.m.-4 p.m.
credit cards accepted