Friday, January 17, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Week of Prayer for Christian Unity

During the eight days from Friday, January 17 to Friday, January 24, Christians all over the world will be praying
for peace and unity. On the Davidson campus, we will join with them, as various groups come together to sponsor
a variety of programs, opportunities to learn about the Church beyond our community, and worship activities. Suggested meditations for the
week will be available in the Union, Chambers Lobby, the Library, and the Commons. Following is a schedule of events
open to all.

Sun., Jan. 19

11 a.m. Dr. Thelma Adair will preach at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Her sermon will be “The Journey of
a Peacemaker.”

3 p.m. Rides will leave for Duke Chapel in Durham to hear Bishop Desmond Tutu speak. Contact the Chaplain for
a ride.

Mon., Jan. 20

7 p.m. Memorial Service in honor of Dr. Martin L. King Jr. Sponsored by the Black Student Coalition and the
Chapel Committee, this service in Lingle Chapel will feature gospel singers and a talk by Dr. Thelma Adair: “I Remember
Martin.”

Tues., Jan. 21

4 p.m. Third World Theologies — Shiites and Liberation Theology — Two guest speakers will talk about trends in the
Third World. They are sponsored by the Rusk Program and will speak at the Carolina Inn.

Wed., Jan. 22

1 p.m. “Strategies for Peacemaking” — Dr. Adair will speak at the Open Luncheon in the 900 Room.

10 a.m.-4 p.m. A representative from Volunteers in Mission will meet with interested students in the Union Lobby.

7 p.m. 24-Hour Prayer Vigil will begin in Lingle Chapel. People may sign up for the vigil at the table
on first Chambers, or just come by Lingle Chapel.

Thurs., Jan. 23

7 p.m. Ecumenical Worship Service — The campus Christian Fellowship groups (FCA, IV, Chapel Committee, Catholic Campus Ministries, Sunday Night
Fellowship Group) will lead this worship time. Ms. Brenda Tapia will preach and the sacrament of baptism will be given
to a Davidson student. Lingle Chapel.

SPONSORED BY:

Catholic Campus Ministries
Chapel Committee
Fellowship of Christian Athletes
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship
Sunday Night Fellowship
