10 THE DAVIDSONIAN — Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors John Gathings, Editor Emeritus Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor Will Thomason, Business
Manager Jim Dillon, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors Mark Chen, Features Editor Lee Eichelberger, Inside Art Editor Mike Adams, Edwin Page,
Sports Editors Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor Karen Bockus, Susan Wilkins, Advertising Managers Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Demons

As Allhallows Eve of 1986 has suddenly come upon us, we have noticed a number of local demons disturbing our
generally tranquil college. One is the move of Convocation from Friday to Saturday morning. If parties on Thursday night hurt
Convocation attendance, what havoc will Friday night parties wreak on the turnout this year? Moving Convocation to Saturday will not
limit class-cutting as students will use the cuts saved this Friday at some other time. Having Convocation on Saturday forces
administrators and faculty to spend precious free time on extra job demands and robs the scholarly students of a morning
of well-earned rest and the lazy student of crucial Saturday catch-up time. Why not save everyone a lot of grief
and move Convocation back to Friday?

Overly-influential alumni haunt the College with constant complaints and demands tied to gifts of money. This is not to say
all or even most alumni hurt the college in this manner. Most give generously to Davidson out of a love
for the college. Some, however, refuse to understand that Davidson is for students, not former students. Too many decisions are
made on the basis of some big donors’ whims rather than the feelings of students, much less the faculty and
administrators, Davidson’s permanent residents. The Southern Conference-exit debacle is a prime example of student opinion being ignored by alumni and
trustee football fanaticism. Alumni, we hope you enjoy returning to your alma mater and come visit us often; but please
contain your “help” in determining school policy to suggestions rather than demands.

Speaking of ghosts, the specter of Charles G. “Lefty” Driesell has dominated national sports headlines lately. Driesell, who is solely
responsible for establishing Davidson’s “basketball tradition,” recently resigned his coaching position at Maryland in light of controversy arising from the
death of player Len Bias. Driesell represents Davidson’s memorable stint as an athletic power. While Bobby Hussey and players last
year gave a display of what NCAA excitement is like, the nebulous future of Southern Conference-less sports makes Lefty’s glory
days seem an unattainable dream.

Finally, the Ghost of Specials Past must be cringing in agony at the new M & M Soda Shop. Nachos,
french fries and MTV were bad enough, but changing one of Davidson’s most sacred relics, the Special sandwich, is going
too far. Alteration in the egg salad, ham and lettuce make going to the M & M an ordeal rather
than an enjoyable experience. Yes, it would be nice to return from a Friday convocation to a Special — full
of the old ham, lettuce, and egg salad — in the good ol’ M & M Soda Shop knowing full
well Davidson athletics had a future full of possible Southern Conference titles. However, you’d need a good trick to get
those treats.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 882-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of
the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates.
Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, Andrea Diedrich, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, Laura Gabel, David Williams.© Features Staff: Lee Eichelberger, Scott Goodwin,
Chris Hargrove, Steve Mank. Sports Staff: Rick Case, Boyd Coggins, Pam Harmann, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wilkins. Photography Staff: Alex Hayden,
Linda Higbie, Mer Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, Matt Yaun. Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill. Production Staff: Sarah Bayne,
Beth Bryson, Kim Crabtree, Amelia Fox, Clisby Hall, Pete Mangone, Tom Moore, Kim Robertson, Matt Sowell, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins,
Ben Yarbrough. Circulation Staff: Lucia Kendall.

Friday, October 31, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cloudt’s View
BRING THE (OH AND MOM, DON'T LET DAD WEAR THE HE-MAN COSTUME AGAIN THIS YEAR)
©1987. THE DAVIDSONIAN

To the Editors:

We would like to express our displeasure at the quality of writing that passes for “Feature” journalism. Specifically, we cannot
understand how Steve Mank can get away with his slanderous remarks regarding the field hockey team in the Oct. 24
edition of The Davidsonian. Mr. Mank derides the violence of the sport and points to a specific player as a
sadistic perpetrator of that violence. First of all, when a game involves a large stick and a hard ball and
is played by strong athletes, someone gets hurt every once in a while. Secondly, when a player has worked four
years to perfect her sport, which includes learning how to “whack the Hell out of the mother,” she ought to
be congratulated for her courage and ability rather than criticized for what Steve Mank sees as a desire to “take
out a few of your opponents and have fun doing it.” After four years of dedication and hard work, is
this what we offer her as thanks?

If Mr. Mank feels the urge to really understand field hockey, perhaps he ought to really talk to a player
instead of asking leading questions like “How many girls do you take out each game?” that only serve to ridicule
and deride the players of this difficult sport. Furthermore, he ought not base his opinions on a single viewing of
field hockey (or anything else for that matter). Thanks to Mr. Mank there may be a few more spectators at
the next game. Perhaps they will be there to watch Heather “whack the Hell out of the mother,” but perhaps
they will be there to support Davidson College athletes and not to fling insults at practiced, well-conditioned women who lay
their bodies and their pride on the line every time they walk onto the field.

Michele E. Miller
Jane C. Royal

Misbehavior

To the Editors:

The restaurants which deliver to the college are reconsidering their delivery policies. This is caused by the unwarranted, unprovoked, ill-mannered
behavior of some Belk residents who perhaps are unaware of the code of responsibility and state and local laws.

Friday night, Oct. 24, one of the Peregrine delivery employees was hit on the back of the neck by a
32-gallon trash can thrown from the second floor of Belk dorm. Due to his injured back he is missing work.
The man is a Davidson resident, not a student with parents to help support him. Although the trash can may
not have been thrown with malicious intent, nonetheless the action can be considered a violation of the code of responsibility
and local and state laws concerning assault and battery. Aluminum cans and water balloons have rained upon our delivery personnel
and fellow students before (and after) this incident. Unless this misbehavior ceases the entire campus will be deprived of delivery
service because of the actions of the few. In our opinion these actions imply a lack of maturity, common sense,
and respect for fellow human beings. Please stop these senseless acts that have hurt our fellow employee and friend.

Beth Bowen '87
B. Michael Makonnen '88
