Slide-day THE DAVIDPHONIAN

THE DAVIDPHONIAN

John Gabby, Editor-in-Chief
Brooke Shields, Executive Secretary
Kevin Whore, Disappearing Editor
Kimbo The White Lion, Managing Editor
Will Not, Business Killer
Andy Died Rich, Neil McSnorkle, News Editors
Red Barron, Sporting Fly-boy

Billy Budd, Featured Melville
Color Me Brown, Opinionated Editor
Robert Neck Bite, Non-Photographic Vampire
John Elsewhere, Advertising Everyone
David Maynot, Circulation Critter
Ann Hoddy, Put-down Editor

We don’t care

In The Davidphonian’s never-ending battle to raise students’ awareness, we (the editors) now tackle the hot issue of the possibility of a Men’s Concerns Committee. The freshmen organizers of the committee are now awaiting a charter from the National Chauvinists’ Society. They plan to kick off next year with a men’s awareness week.

Problems the MCC will attack include: quality of beer, quality of women, and availability of condoms. They say they will publish a “Guide to Women at Davidson” pamphlet each year to raise funds for the group. They hope that activities, like inviting Playboy photographers to campus, will make people aware of their special concerns.

We at The Davidphonian are strongly indifferent to the group. We realize the potential danger in actually taking a side on this issue, so in a rare turn of events, we are neutral.

To be in favor of the group would mean editorial suicide. We would undoubtedly be inundated by the prolific writings of numerous feminists, who would force us to publish an all-Opinions issue.

Due to the overwhelmingly male population at Davidson, we decided not to oppose the group (nicknamed “The Vocal Majority”), either.

So, we figured, “Why Bother?” We do nothing up in the office on Thursday nights anyway! We acquired a “slack” attitude, but we don’t care. On the issue of the jokes in the calendar, we’re sorry. They’re mostly inside jokes that nobody gets.

We give up. We don’t care about WDAV, the SGA, parking, Kappa Sig, or especially the Men’s Concerns Committee (which doesn’t concern us).

Congratulations

This is the last parody issue of The Davidphonian for this term. Andy Barron and Brooke Knight will take over next term. Good luck!

Letters

Freebies

To the Editor:

Why doesn’t your paper have any coupons? Don’t you understand that college students don’t have much money, and could use a few breaks? Sure, your paper is free, but we could all stand to be a little more thrifty anyway. Because we don’t have much money here at college. Except the Hods, of course.

And why do they call you just “Editor?” Don’t you have a first name?

Ralph Nader

Just kidding

To the Editor:
We were just kidding. Sorry. Ha ha.
The Kappa Sigs

Free love

To the Editors:
It has come to our attention that there is a problem in understanding the intimate expressions of some of the Davidson student body. Put simply, we do not feel that the college is making a liberal effort toward emphasizing “free love.” Free love is that most personal expression (physical or otherwise) that anyone can make towards another individual. It bursts the bonds of morality, social acceptability, and taboo—for how can the human spirit be so bound? Human souls are ageless and sexless, so why should the expression of truly free love be confined to these trifling externalities? For example, could not pederasty be understood to be the highest form of parental affection? Could not incest be understood as “rolling one’s own?” Certainly this is free love. The point of all this is that the college should take action, yes—that’s it—action! We propose the creation of a RUDE Love committee, or more precisely the Raised Understanding of Displaced Expressions of Love Committee. The role of the RUDE Love committee would be to open the minds of the college community to alternative forms of intimate expression. In addition, the outreach arm would include programs at the local daycare center and a special ministry to prisoners. Finally, a special medical advisor should be appointed to oversee any problems that the group might face. The popularity of the RUDE Love proposal is spreading like a plague across American college campuses. We’d be keen to guess that there is much more interest in a RUDE Love committee at Davidson than anyone will admit to. We think it’s time to come out of the wardrobe and ‘fess up.
The North American Man-Boy Love Association

Litter Policy

Yeah, sure. Go ahead and send your stupid opinion in. Make sure, however, that it is in our grubby hands by at least a month before you actually expect to get it published. We just imposed some new restrictions: It cannot be about 1) feminism, 2) gays, 3) South Africa, 4) Kappa Sig, or 5) anything that anybody gives enough crap about to come to us and complain. Doesn’t give you too many options, does it?

Get the idea? Nobody cares what you think, especially us!

Letters are cool with us as long as they are short and funny. We don’t mind them as much because usually there's not enough space for the writer to be obnoxious. The Davidphonian is here for the editors to be rude, not for the readers to say what they think (assuming, of course, that the readers can think). We appreciate your not caring.