Friday, October 3, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN Just Words 11

Bush blunders his way through campaign

By TIM BROWN

During the early dog days of August, Knight Publishing Company was conducting a survey and tallying up some surprising responses.
In this survey, each of 609 randomly selected Southern adults was asked whether he had heard of each of 17
potential presidential candidates, eight of whom were Republicans and nine of whom were Democrats. For each potential presidential candidate he
recognized, the person surveyed was asked whether his opinion of that candidate was favorable or unfavorable. (To give you some
idea of the survey’s general validity, Knight Publishing Company conservatively estimates “that the results in 19 of 20 samples of
this size would vary no more than plus or minus four percentage points from the results obtained if every Southern
adult were surveyed.”)

George Bush was the most popular and most liked of the prospective candidates. Ninety-six percent of the Southern adults surveyed
had heard of George Bush, which is not surprising. Sixty-four percent of those who recognized George Bush judged him to
be a favorable presidential candidate, which to many reasonable people is surprising. It is probable that many Southern women and
many Southern gentlemen have not inhaled the malodorous scent of George Bush’s flowery words.

George Bush’s campaign strategists thought that they had a strategy that would enable Bush to slide into the presidency in
November of 1988 with as much ease as he displays slipping into his hand-crafted cowboy boots. Their strategy was to
have Bush continue to emulate Reagan, but to have Bush gradually and carefully reveal his individualism. Bush was to reveal
his individualism by aiding GOP candidates in 1986 with his own political action committee, by making plenty of public appearances
at key times and at key places, and by carefully showcasing some of his tailor-made political ideas during his trips
at home and abroad.

After the Reagan landslide in November of 1984, Bush thought longingly about November 1988, and quietly started to work on
his own presidential campaign strategy. Bush decided to baptize his campaign in the waves of support for Reaganomics. With a
face as sincere as Tom Sawyer’s, Bush claimed that he now supports every one of Reagan’s economic policies, and subtly
apologized for ever calling Reagan’s economic policies “voodoo economics.” Bush emulated, sometimes to his detriment, Reagan’s spirited rhetoric concerning some
politically and morally hot topics: arms control, tax reform, South African sanctions, and the Contras. Bush must have swallowed hard
as he emulated the rhetoric with which Reagan labeled the Contras “the moral equivalents of our Founding Fathers.” Senator Bob
Dole, the Republican Senate Majority Leader, said that Bush even tried to emulate Reagan’s macho image by visiting the President’s
ranch to “chop wood and ride horses.”

As he attempts to reveal his individualism, Bush reminds many people of a punch-drunk Muhammad Ali. Sometimes Bush moves like
a butterfly and stings like a bee. And at other times Bush makes some unforgivable verbal blunders. Since 1984, Bush
and his own political action committee have aided GOP candidates politically and financially. He has collected a ballot box of
IOU’s from these GOP candidates, which he'll cash in on in 1988. Bush has become a patriotic and compassionate minuteman
who is able to appear at a celebration or catastrophe in a minute’s notice. Bush appeared at the Fourth of
July parade in Bristol, N.H., visited a soup kitchen in western Pennsylvania to listen to and eat with the homeless
victims of a tornado, and visited many of the South’s drought-stricken farmers.

Bush loses the grace of the butterfly and the sting of the bee when he stumbles to make flowery public
speeches on his trips at home and abroad. On the morning when Bush visited the tornado victims in western Pennsylvania,
he told them that he came to see them “at the behest of the President.” By that afternoon Bush was
branded a liar. His campaign strategists had arranged and promoted the trip. While at a highfalutin campaign dinner in New
York, Bush claimed that Gov. Cuomo, also a potential presidential candidate for 1988, is a liberal who protects cop killers
such as Charles Culhane and Gary McGivern. A careful inspection of Culhane’s and McGivern’s case histories convinces the thoughtful reader
that the evidence used to convict them of killing a police officer is as shady as the area under a
large, green oak tree. They have been in prison for 18 years and have maintained spotless prison records. And Bush’s
sly insinuation that liberals, by nature of their political philosophies, are protectors of cop killers was unmercifully attacked by William
F. Buckley and George F. Will, whose pens were as sharp as the teeth of a piranha.

Bush’s flowery words have met similar success abroad. Take for example his recent trip to Jordan. Bush demanded that the
Jordanians supply him with helicopters to ferry him and his entourage to a remote army base in Jordan. Because the
Jordanians’ tiny air force could not reasonably spare the number of helicopters Bush needed, they offered him automobiles. BushHere is
the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Refused the automobiles and angrily replied to the Jordanians, “If you cannot provide the helicopters, you should borrow them from
the Israeli air force.” This statement caused many Jordanians to stand with their mouths wide open and many other Jordanians
to writhe with anger for two reasons. Jordan has been in a technical state of war with Israel since 1967,
when the Israelis seized the West Bank of the River Jordan. And last spring Jordan’s King Hussein asked the U.S.
to supply him with one helicopter so he could see his two daughters graduate from their two separate New England
prep schools. He did not get his helicopter. But you can bet your hand-crafted cowboy boots that Bush got his
helicopter. George Bush left Jordan as he had entered Jordan — with a bang of a blunder. A couple of
hours before he was supposed to leave Jordan, Bush requested that the Jordanians stage military maneuvers so his cameramen could
take dramatic photos of Bush perched on a hill with cannons firing and tanks churning below him and with the
sunset behind him. The Jordanians had to call on the U.S. Embassy in order to convince Bush that such military
maneuvers could be misconstrued by Israel or Syria, causing a real battle to materialize. Embarrassed, Bush found shelter in a
joke. “Tell me, how dead is the Dead Sea?” Bush asked Jordan’s Commander and Chief Lt. Gen Zeid Bin Shaker.
“Very dead... sir,” the general replied. If Bush does not learn to think, think, think, before he speaks, and if
Southern voters catch wind of his verbal blunders, two things are sure to happen. Bush's presidential campaign will be deader
than the Dead Sea. And after the funeral, his campaign strategists will get together to drown their sorrows in tidal
pools of Busch beer.

They were left for dead. The next day, the two were discovered and taken to a hospital: 65 percent of
Rodrigo’s body was burnt, and his features and respiratory system damaged beyond repair. Ms. de Negri left for Chile on
July 3 and spent his last hours with him. He died being held for political reasons, often under conditions that
violate their human rights and dignity. As political prisoners, these people are often held under horrendous conditions, and their incarceration
frequently includes torture. Due in part to the efforts of A.I., she was released after being held in jail for
two years and was repeatedly raped and tortured. Through mass letter writings aimed at various government officials, Amnesty members exert
worldwide pressure by voicing their concern for those who are being held, and requesting improved conditions and eventual release on
their behalf.

This fall, Davidson Amnesty will be focusing its work on a specific incident which is representative of the senseless brutality
which continues to occur in oppressive regimes worldwide. Our program is one of publicity and protest against the violent death
of Rodrigo Rojas de Negri, a Chilean exile who returned to his country last summer. Soldiers overtook both teenagers, doused
them with gasoline, and set them on fire. They were left for dead. The next day, the two were discovered
and taken to a hospital: 65 percent of Rodrigo’s body was burnt, and his features and respiratory system damaged beyond
repair. Ms. de Negri left for Chile on July 3 and spent his last hours with him. He died.

Amnesty International feels that communication with Veronica de Negri would be a comfort in her need, and is now working
to raise money for her as she attempts to sue the Chilean government and pay her son’s hospital bills. On
October 6, there will be an Amnesty Letter Writing at 9:00 p.m. in the Union Conference Room; letters of protest
will be sent to the Chilean government on her behalf, and sponsors have pledged money per each letter written. All
are welcomed to attend and join us in writing, or participate as sponsors.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.
