Friday, May 2, 1986

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Women’s tennis finishes tumultuous season

By PAM HARMANN

The Davidson women’s tennis team finished its season last week with a very successful 12-9 record. Taking into account the decision to move women’s tennis up to the Division I level, the season, though successful, was disappointing for many team members. This is especially true of the upperclassmen who had counted on having another national championship under their belts. The decision to move up to Division I rendered Davidson ineligible to compete for the National Championship in Kalamazoo, Michigan at the Division III level.

At the start of the season, the goal of the team was to finish with a 21-6 record. This included, of course, winning the national championship. Thus a successful 12-9 record is a bit disappointing after such high hopes. Coach Caroline Brown feels the team would have cruised through the national championships. Once the decision to move to Division I was made, the team spent a lot of time and energy in examining the decision and subsequently lost some matches they could possibly have won. The record was 11-5 when the decision was made and Davidson lost its final four matches, (It beat Winthrop by default, thus the 12-9 record.)

A further disappointment came after the move to Division I when Davidson was not permitted to compete in the Southern Conference tournament either. This left the team without a tournament or any type of post-season play.

The final match of the season came against Guilford College. Davidson lost 6-3, but they put up a good fight. Guilford is number five in the country in NAIA Division I, and Davidson has never beaten them. It seems the only teams Davidson can’t beat are the big ACC schools like Duke, Wake Forest, Chapel Hill, and then Guilford.

Sophomore Amy McNelis lost at number one 7-5, 6-2. Freshman Marion Stone lost as well at number two, 6-3, 6-7, 6-0. Number four, junior Debbie Podolin lost 6-4, 7-5, and number five, freshman Martha Johnson lost 6-3, 6-4. The only singles wins were by senior Lolly Johnson at number three 6-2, 5-7, 7-6 and by freshman Jane Price at number six, 7-6, 6-3. This put lots of pressure on Davidson going into the doubles matches. First and second doubles lost, but the number three doubles team of Podolin and M. Johnson won 6-4, 6-3. Davidson knew it would be close at the start because Guilford is always a difficult match, but everyone played well.

Number one McNelis finished the season 10-8 and number two Stone finished 10-9. Captain Lolly Johnson was the best performer with a 14-6 record. This successful record is a tribute to her concentration. Several times during the season she was down 5-2 in the third set and she came back and won. She is the strongest on the team in that aspect. Podolin at number four finished 13-5, again thanks to her ability to concentrate and her mental skills. Number five M. Johnson and number six Jane Price finished 8-8 and 13-3 respectively.

The combined freshmen record of 31-20 reveals the excellent contribution of this class. Additional freshmen who contributed were Angela Rupert, Alice Stubbs, and Flora Robinson. Upperclass contributions in singles and doubles were made by juniors Libby Sanders and Stephanie Townsend, and sophomores Kristin Malone, Lucy Spragins, and Emily Berman. A strong number four doubles performance at the end of the season was also noted.

Men’s tennis takes third in conference

By SUSAN WILKINS

First the bad news: Davidson’s men’s tennis team’s season is over. Now for the good news: they look stronger than ever for next year. Now the great news: Davidson, playing extremely well, placed third in the Southern Conference tournament, a mere two points behind the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga, and only twelve points behind conference power Furman.

Big winners for the Cats were sophomore Bill Young at number three singles and the doubles team of junior Trip Caldwell and sophomore Jim Thompson at number two. All of these players won the championship at their playing spots. Young, a winner of the number six championship last year and two-time winner of the Knit shirts of all sorts NCICI tournament, wasSeeded third going into tournament play with a 5-2 conference record, his two regular season losses came to the number one and number two seeds in the tournament at number three singles. Young started with an easy match against a Citadel player, winning quickly 6-1, 6-4. He then had to play one of the players he had lost to during the regular season. Young played hard and won. Onto the finals. In the finals, Young was up against the number four seed, a player from Appalachian State whom Young had already beaten. The ASU player came out looking for blood, but Young refused to bleed and won the finals with his powerful returns and superb groundstrokes, 6-2, 6-1.

The doubles team of Caldwell and Thompson is usually magnificent, but on Saturday they outdid themselves. All season long they have played well together, but only had a 4-3 conference record due to several close matches; they were seeded fourth. They had a tough match in the first round, winning 6-4, 5-7, 6-4. In the second round, Caldwell and Thompson were up against the number one seed, a Furman team with lots of experience and were undefeated in the conference. Earlier this year, the Furman team had trounced the Cats. Thompson and Caldwell entered the match confident and played the match of their lives. They won 4-6, 6-4, 6-3. Another Davidson team in the finals. In the finals, the Cats had to play the second-seeded team — ASU. Caldwell and Thompson also had lost to the ASU team earlier this year. But that match had been close, and the Wildcats were ready to play. They won the finals with strong net play and spectacular serving, 6-4, 6-1.

The rest of the team also did well. Thompson, seeded fifth at number one singles, won fourth place. Junior Hayes Dallas at number two, seeded fourth, finished third. Senior Craig Hall at number four, seeded third, placed third. Junior Michael Meyer at number five, seeded third, won third place, and freshman Sebastian Koch at number six, seeded fourth, finished third. The number one doubles team of Dallas and Young, seeded fifth, finished fifth, while the number three doubles team of Hall and Meyer, seeded fourth, finished third.

Coach Brown is extremely pleased with her team. She feels it was “without question the best team Davidson has ever had, thanks to the great chemistry between freshmen and upperclassmen.” A major highlight of the season was winning the Emory Tournament for the second year in a row. It was a fitting farewell to Division III. The outlook for next year is promising. Davidson should be successful as far as the won-loss record goes. Brown claims to have lost her number one recruit but has two other strong recruits coming with state high school rankings. She is looking to future changes for women’s athletics that must be made for Davidson to be competitive at the Division I level. Thus, hopes of an improved women's tennis program help lessen the disappointment of this 1986 season.

Because of their fantastic play, the Wildcats ended up third overall in the tournament with a point total of 55. Furman finished first with 67 points, while UTC was second with 57. Coach Jeff Frank was extremely pleased, saying that Davidson “couldn't have played better.” He expects great things next year with the addition of sophomore Rick Hodge to the team. Hodge has been out all year with a bad knee and is expected to replace graduating senior Craig Hall at number four singles. Along with Hodge, Frank says that the top two high school players in South Carolina are joining the Wildcats next year. With five returning starters and lots of bench strength, Davidson could be creating a dynasty and look to be contenders for the Southern Conference title next year.