10 Friday, May 2, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sports Page

Hockey playoff format needs revamping

By EDWIN PAGE

Imagine this scene: It is the Stanley Cup finals. The two finest teams in professional hockey are about to meet
to decide who will keep the prestigious cup for the next year. The Zamboni leaves the ice and the teams
emerge. But wait, as the teams come onto the ice they are wearing the uniforms of the lowly New York
Rangers and Toronto Maple Leafs (known in some circles as the Make Believes). Surely this could not happen, and yet
as I write this article, it is still possible. The Rangers are already in the semifinals, and the Leafs are
only one game away from joining them.

I know that this is unlikely, but it is a dream that I can cling to for a little while.
Just maybe, if the above nightmare matchup were to materialize, the ensuing comedy on ice would force the NHL to
rethink its playoff policy which allows everyone but the poorest relations in the league to come to the post-season party.

The Philadelphia Flyers labored throughout the regular season to achieve the second-best record in the NHL. The New York Rangers,
on the other hand, edged out the Pittsburgh Penguins in the last week of the season to sneak into the
back door of the playoffs. Despite this disparity, these two teams found themselves on even ground come playoff time except
that Philadelphia had a one-game home ice advantage. Five games later, the Flyers were sent home by a team that
had no business in the playoffs to start with.

In the next round, the Rangers dispatched the Washington Capitals, another good team, to become “Patrick Division Champions,” despite the
fact that their losing record placed them fourth in the regular season.

Similarly, the Hartford Whalers stunned the Quebec Nordiques in the first round and came within a single goal of joining
the likewise unworthy Rangers in the Stanley Cup semis when they lost to Montreal in overtime of the seventh game
in the Adams Division Championship.

Granted, it is fun to root for teams like the Leafs, Rangers, and the Whalers (how can you not feel
for a team named after a Burger King sandwich) simply because they are such huge underdogs. But the truth is
that the present system in the NHL is utterly ridiculous. Legitimate teams like the Flyers and Nordiques work hard all
season to post legitimate records while other teams stumble along, winning just often enough to not finish last, and end
up right in the thick of things come crunch time.

Once in the playoffs, all it takes is a hot goaltender like the Rangers’ John Van Biesbrouck and any team
can suddenly be competitive.

Since it is obvious that the regular season means nothing, why not acknowledge the truth. Below is a proposal that
I believe would clarify the situation without changing the nature of the NHL very drastically.

The NHL should change the name of the part of the year that precedes the playoffs from “regular season” to
“pre-playoff trophy tryouts,” because that’s about all the regular season is now. The regular season could be omitted altogether except
for the fact that the NHL wouldn’t have anyone to give the Lady Byng trophy or the Vezina trophy or
any of the other oddly named awards to at the conclusion of the playoffs. During the pre-playoff trophy tryouts, the
NHL could keep track of important statistics like goals, plus-minus ratio, and saves, but could ignore useless nonsense such as
wins and losses.

With the pre-playoff trophy tryouts, everyone would know that the first 80 games were all for practice, and the players
would be allowed to stop pretending that they really matter. The playoffs would be expanded by five teams to include
everyone, but would otherwise proceed as they do now.

Under this system, good teams like Philadelphia and Edmonton could relax during the regular season like everyone else without undue
pressure from the fans to win. Then when the playoffs came around, they wouldn’t be tired and the best team
would most likely win.

In order to keep fans in the seats for the pre-playoff trophy tryouts, a new award could be added for
the player causing the most serious injuries to opponents during the tryouts. This would not only continue the trend of
exciting hockey that the NHL now endorses, but would make players like Tiger Williams and Nick Fotiu feel important.

If the NHL chooses instead to keep the regular season, I would then recommend that the number of playoff teams
be cut in half so that only deserving teams be allowed to participate. If they insist on calling it regular
season, they might as well make it mean something.

---

Freshman Ed Powell heads toward the Furman goal, whom they played last Saturday

---

Senior Ed Lilly

---

Freshman Tom Crystal with a unique style

---

GAY SUPPORT GROUP

Sponsored by:

The Office of the Chaplain
The College Union
The Housing Office

Concerned students and faculty have formed a SUPPORT/SOCIAL GROUP to meet the needs of the gay community at Davidson College.

If interested in information on the second meeting, please write: G.S.G. P.O. Box 3082 Davidson, N.C. 28036 Confidentiality is assured.
