12 Friday, May 2, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Women’s athletics needs more support

Frank Hague

The women’s athletic program at Davidson has in recent weeks been the subject of much attention and discussion. This new interest in the status of the women’s program stems largely from the fact that NCAA regulations that went into effect this year put the women’s teams in a position where their structure and level of development posed a threat to the eligibility of the men’s program. This fact in itself reflects the failure of Davidson to initiate the prior commitment to women’s athletics we now must accept as necessary and proper.

The intent of this statement is not to try and trace Davidson's history of negligence in this area or to suggest that this year has proven in a highly unbalanced and ironic manner that Davidson should reassess the costs and benefits of its desire to continue to compete at the Division I level. Both of these topics have been examined in recent weeks and both reflect conditions and actions we as students lack the mechanisms and perhaps interest to alter. I wish to concentrate, therefore, on addressing the specific nature of the commitment Davidson must be willing and required to make to women’s athletics if it truly desires to remain the smallest Division I school in the nation.

In order to comply with NCAA regulations, Davidson must sponsor six Division I women’s teams each year and meet requirements regarding both the number of participants on the roster and the number of annual contests each team will play. If we are to compete at the Division I level with any hope of success we must strengthen our women’s program through the application of our resources and attention in the following areas which have been identified by the Women’s Athletics Study Committee:

1. Selection of appropriate sports for sponsorship,
2. Program support through administrative staffing,
3. Selections of top calibre full-time coaches,
4. Provision of part-time assistant coaching personnel,
5. Budgetary support comparable to other Division I women’s programs,
6. Increased financial and Admissions Office support for recruitment of women athletes,
7. Improved playing fields and athletic facilities,
8. Special financial aid packages for women athletes, and
9. Increasing the power and scope of the position of women’s athletic coordinator.

A real commitment to women’s athletics will require much more than the identification of the persistent historic weaknesses of our athletic program. A real commitment will require the coordinated efforts of the administration, trustees, alumni, students, and faculty of Davidson if we ever hope to make more than token progress in this area. The same athletic policy and philosophy that makes necessary the elimination of women’s varsity basketball team must also “tow the line” and recognize the obligation to provide Davidson's women’s teams with the support they will need to compete at the Division I level. This will require a great deal of money and may even strain the budgets of our men’s teams to an extent. This may be unfortunate but is not unfair and simply represents the price Davidson must be willing to pay if it wishes to elevate its women’s program and protect its dream of Division I grandeur.

I would like you to remember the celebration and elation which followed the victory of the men’s basketball team in the Southern Conference tournament and our subsequent entry into the NCAA tournament this year. I would like you to remember the way in which student, alumni, and school publications spoke with special pride about our achievement because we had done it the “Davidson way.” I challenge you now to recognize and remember that a large group of Davidson student-athletes, in whom we should all take pride, have suffered this season and will continue to suffer unless we reform and improve the practices and attitudes that we have allowed to become for them the “Davidson way.” A true “fan” of Davidson should realize that the women’s teams are our teams and that when we neglect them we neglect ourselves.

Hague is a senior political science major from Roanoke, VA

Feminism forces examination of selves, society

Melissa McLemore

This is in response to Kenneth Bogert’s article on feminism. First, let me make it clear that this is not a rebuttal, but an explanation. I agree with Kenneth about the necessity of equal rights among women and men when it comes to wages and responsibilities. And as far as I know the movement has been called The Equal Rights Movement for quite a while; however, feminism has and does play an important part in this.

Unfortunately, social change does not take place easily. In fact, as Dr. Maloney says, “It takes a lot of funerals before change can actually occur.” Grassroot groups such as feminism or black power organizations force us to look at ourselves, our society and our injustices. Yes, both groups can be extreme at times, but history has shown that it takes extreme action to move into action.

Kenneth, you unfortunately inherited a long, rich history of white male oppressors. In fact, it appears that the white male on the whole is among one of the most insecure groups in history: why else would he exterminate Jews, lynch blacks and rape women? No, I am not saying that white males are the only ones who suffer from anti-semitism, racism and sexism, but you must admit they are in a majority. I realize this is quite an abrupt statement but why should the oppressed hold the oppressors’ hand in order to make it easier for them to accept the necessary and inevitable change. They have not made it any easier to instigate that change.My point is that the feminist movement has played an important role in pointing out injustices and demanding that they be righted. It has also provided a much-needed support group, which I find much more acceptable than the infamous "Good Ole’ Boys Club." The feminist movement need only be threatening if you are advocating the subordination of women. Ann [Lambert] could probably better explain the details of the feminist movement. Actually, she did, but I hope you can attempt to understand the necessity of it. I may not agree with what some particular feminists are advocating, but I can respect their right to speak up for what they believe in. I too, am proud to call myself a feminist simply because I care about what has happened and what is happening with my sister women, and I must stand up for what I believe in. Movements such as Gandhi’s, King’s, Black Power, and yes, feminism provide a forum for issues that were previously taboo. 

McLemore is a junior religion major from Asheville, NC.

Just Words
Tim Brown

It's one thing when the boys get together with their Tommy guns to shoot down bowling pins, and quite another when some others get together to shoot down civilians. And experts, such as Gary Kleck, on the topics of guns and violence, who now concern themselves with growing machine-gun mania in the U.S.A., say that there's no positive relationship between the levels of machine guns owned by law-abiding citizens and interpersonal violence, that there is a positive relationship between the levels of machine guns owned by crime-prone citizens and interpersonal violence, and that those who are apt to commit a crime are going to get their paws on such artillery regardless of legislative strictures. Things have changed since 1934, when honest Americans had regular hunting rifles and only gangsters had Tommy guns. Today it’s okay for an average Joe to own a not-so-average weapon. It’s estimated that 500,000 military assault guns are owned by private citizens. Some folks own them because they grew up with guns, like guns, and collect exotic ones for a hobby. Others buy an UZI or MAC-10 for self-protection so that they can shoot an assaulter, say, twenty times while the assaulter can only shoot them four. Others just get the urge after sitting through Scarface, Rambo, Missing in Action, Commando, Invasion U.S.A., The A-Team, Miami Vice, and The Equalizer. Others of the most bothersome sort—anti-Semitic, pseudo-Christian xenophobes with links to the Ku Klux Klan and the American Nazi movement—are carried away by thoughts of paramilitary survival training, believing that, if armed, they can defend this proud nation when Armageddon swings around. That such fanatics mean business no one denies. One such group, The Order, assassinated Alan Berg, a Denver radio-talk-show host, with a MAC-10. Covenant, the Sword and the Arm of the Lord (C.S.A.) bragged on its paramilitary training center near the Arkansas-Missouri border, giving, mistakenly, enough information to federal and state investigators to enable them to find the hideout and the 77 semiautomatic and machine guns stashed there.

The federal government doesn’t require registration or licensing of any weapon so long as it’s not a machine gun (a machine gun is defined, here, as a weapon that fires repeating shots with one pull of the trigger). Semiautomatics, requiring a separate trigger pull for each shot, are unrestricted regardless of how closely they approximate the firepower of a machine gun. So gun buyers realize they can buy a semiautomatic along with a mail-order conversion kit, consisting of about seven parts whose installment requires little mechanical skill, and can turn an unregistered semiautomatic gun into a full-fledged unregistered automatic. Though, technically, all conversions require a machine gun license, those who convert their guns overlook this requirement and suffer about as much guilt as those people who buy from L.L. Bean and overlook the use tax. But meanwhile judges and lawmakers, yielding to pressure, act on this issue. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms crawled out of a blood battle victorious in 1982 when a federal judge agreed that the MAC-10 and KG-9, two semiautomatics easily converted into automatics, should be sold and licensed as machine guns. California restricts and urges others to restrict the sale of automatic weapons even though the sunny state’s restriction has had dismal results because of the sale of military guns from out-of-state distributors. And in Congress, positions regarding this issue move back and forth like a rocking horse. Democrats in the House, thinking and speaking simply on a difficult subject, ask for a simple ban that would end the sale of machine guns and silencers to civilians, but would allow currently licensed ones (and those not licensed) to remain in private hands. Republicans in the Senate, offering dull speech and thought, strive to make machine gun ownership easier to come by, and succeed in making liberals understandably nervous by showing little support for banning Teflon-coated “cop-killer” bullets. In the future, we can expect liberals to claim that: “No reasonable public can include the right of the citizen to possess machine guns,” a statement as audibly and mentally appealing as an overused metaphor. And we can look forward to redundancy from right-wingers and gun lobbyists, who'll argue that man has basic rights to two joys: to own a machine gun and to hear a rat-a-tat-tat.

Brown is a sophomore from Mint Hill, NC and is Opinions Editor of The Davidsonian.