**The Davidsonian**

Volume LXXVI, Number 2

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, September 19, 1986

Southern Conference boots Davidson

By EDWIN PAGE

On Tuesday, Davidson’s hopes to remain in the Southern Conference as a non-football playing member came to an end. The
conference athletic representatives voted 4-3 with two abstentions to deny Davidson’s request to remain a member despite playing football in
the Colonial League beginning in 1987.

The vote eliminated what, up to this point, had been Davidson’s number one option for next season. The school had
pinned much of its hope on the idea of playing in the Southern Conference next year despite the football move.

Davidson athletic director Kit Morris called the vote “something of a blow and a disappointment.” He said the school had
put a lot of energy into this option and that now it was time to “take a step back and
see what else may be available.”

Davidson still has one more year to compete in the Southern Conference, but the future direction of athletics at the
school is very cloudy beyond that. Morris declined to comment on whether Davidson has been in contact with any other
conferences, or even which conferences the school might be interested in.

However, he said that independent status would be “unattractive and unaffordable over the long pull,” implying that Davidson must find
a conference at some point in the near future. He said that the success of the basketball team last year,
the recent surge by the tennis and baseball teams, and the proposed sports complex have improved the situation of the
school.

“At the time that the decision was made to move to the Colonial League, we had had 12 straight losing
seasons in basketball and ten straight losing seasons in baseball,” Morris said. “In terms of what we have to offer,
we are in a much better position than we were fifteen months ago.”

Despite the apparent lack of an immediate solution, Morris believes that the decision to move to the Colonial League is
a sound one. It will be difficult for Davidson until a new conference is found, but Morris stresses, “We will
survive.”

Faculty urges divestment from South Africa

By ANDY BARRON

On Tuesday the Davidson faculty approved a resolution calling for the divestment of all Davidson assets in South Africa.

Of Davidson’s 107 full-time and 19 part-time faculty members, about 100 voted and approved the resolution by more than a
two-to-one margin.

"We ... refuse any form of complicity with the morally repugnant system of apartheid in South Africa,” the resolution said.

“The general sense of the faculty was that it was making a moral statement,” said Robert C. Williams, dean of
the faculty and vice president for academic affairs. “While it was aware of the various financial complexities, it was adopting
the resolution as a moral statement and as a request to the trustees to divest as quickly as possible.”

Religion professor David Kaylor said that the general consensus of the faculty was that it was a prerogative of the
faculty to express opinions on matters affecting the institution. He cited athletics as an example of an area where the
faculty gives its opinion despite having no direct control over athletic policy.

Kaylor said the resolution reflected that of the Presbyterian Church of the United States of America despite not mentioning the
PCUSA in the resolution. He said the PCUSA has exhorted its affiliated institutions to follow a plan of “selective, phased
divestment.”

“If we oppose apartheid, for us to profit from businesses that continue to support it directly or indirectly is morally
inconsistent,” Kaylor said. “The former strategy of working within corporations to get them to change does not seem to have
been effective and divestment seems the next logical step.”

Williams said it was rare for a faculty to take a stand as a corporate body on a political and
moral issue, but said the faculty’s position was similar to that of a long list of various institutions.

However, because the responsibility for financial investment lies with the trustees and not with the faculty, Williams said the resolutions
will be used as respected input to any trustee decision.

“The faculty must respect the fiduciary responsibilities of the trustees, just as the trustees respect the academic freedom of the
faculty,” he said.

Kaylor said, “No one thought we were trying to dictate policy to the trustees.”

News: Page 3
Williams replaces TCPZ

Features: Page 6
Message from the stars: Horoscope debuts

Sports: Page 7
Referee’s call creates controversy at soccer tourney

Opinions: Page 9
Referee’s call examined
