4

Driving drunk — Is it worth it?

By RAY THROWER

Every 24 hours someone’s mother, father, or child is killed by a drunk driver in the United States.

FACTS:

1) Half of all people involved in automobile accidents have been drinking.

2) An accident is three times more likely after consuming one drink.

3) Most states consider you drunk if your blood alcohol level is 0.10 percent (approx. 3-5 drinks per hour). However,
safe limits are often much lower. A blood alcohol level of 0.03 percent can affect your ability and judgment; lead
you to break the law or take unnecessary risks.

It is estimated that 25,000 people will lose their lives each year because of drunk drivers. While approximately 1/2 million
more are injured, to say nothing of the estimated 24 billion dollars in economic losses.

It is said that on weeknights one driver out of every 10 is operating under the influence.

The Safe Roads Act of 1983 became effective Oct. 1, 1983, at 12:01 a.m., making it one of the toughest
laws in the United States.

The new law is designed to reduce plea bargaining and increase punishment under a single charge of D.W.I. (Driving While
Impaired). The new laws establish five levels of penalties, ranging up to two years in prison or a $2,000 fine,
based on mitigating and aggravating factors present in court.

D.W.I. can be proven in one of two ways: 1) By proving the driver's physical or mental faculties are appreciably
impaired by alcohol, drugs, or a combination of both OR 2) By proving the driver's alcohol concentration is 0.10 percent
or more at any relevant time after driving.

If an officer charges you with D.W.I., he will ask you to take a chemical test. Refusal to take any
required test will result in an immediate revocation of your license for at least 10 days and an additional 12
months revocation by the Department of Motor Vehicles.

The present law raised the age to buy and possess beer and unfortified wine to 19. The legal age to
buy or possess fortified wine or spirituous liquor remains 21.

The present law requires a one-year license revocation upon conviction if:

1. An underage person attempts to purchase or purchases an alcoholic beverage.

2. An underage person aids or abets another to attempt to purchase or purchases an alcoholic beverage.

3. An underage person obtains or attempts to obtain alcoholic beverages by using or attempting to use a fraudulent driver’s
license or other I.D. or another person's driver license or I.D.

4. Any person permits his driver's license or any other I.D. to be used by an underage person to purchase
or attempt to purchase an alcoholic beverage. If a provisional licensee (age 16 or 17) is convicted of the offense
of driving with any amount of alcohol or drugs in his body, his license will be revoked until 18 or
for 45 days, whichever is longer.

The new drinking age in North Carolina will be 21 for all alcohol, effective Sept. 1, 1986.

In addition to the fines, possible imprisonment, and revocation of driving privileges which the court can and will impose on
the driver convicted of D.W.I., there are other things that follow with the charge. An individual could lose their job,
possibly be responsible for taking the life of another individual while under the influence, and face increased limits for automobile
liability insurance when they get their license reinstated.

A driver that carries the basic limits required by the state of N.C. with a single D.W.I. conviction will pay
$640.69 more per year than the driver without any violations carrying the identical coverages, and this stays with them for
three years and affects their ability to get collision insurance up to seven years from the conviction. You might think
a taxi cab fare is a lot cheaper than driving drunk and getting caught.

Graduate to Responsibility

After you graduate, get the kind of responsibility you deserve. Get immediate decision-making authority together with the kind of technical
training and management experience that adds up to a successful career.

Choice management openings are waiting for you in electronics, engineering, inventory control, purchasing, personnel administration, systems analysis, and similar fields.

The benefits you get are outstanding: 30 days’ paid vacation earned each year, medical and dental care, low-cost life insurance,
and tax-free allowances.

The requirements are simple: you must have a BS/BA, be no more than 28 years of age, pass aptitude and
physical examinations, qualify for security clearance, and be a U.S. citizen.

If you're interested in gaining managerial responsibility fast, call the Naval Management Programs Office: 1-800-662-7231 OR SEE Lt. Mack McLamb
at the Placement Office on Wednesday or Thursday, February 19 & 20.

Get Responsibility Fast.

NACA Comedy Entertainer of the Year!

NACA Coffeehouse Entertainer of the Year

- BOTH SHOWS BEGIN AT 10 PM -- ADVANCE TICKETS AVAILABLE
