Friday, February 7, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN 15

Feminism not a stifling ideology
Anne Lambert

I write in response and thanks to the many individuals who read my January 24 article thoughtfully and shared their ideas with me. The majority of response from students, faculty, and community members was positive. I also appreciated those who alerted me to my mistake regarding the Women Writers course, which was previously taught at Davidson during 1982-83 by English professor Anne McMillan.

The opinions expressed by Reed Herrero and Scott Campbell in last week’s Davidsonian, however, compel me to reiterate certain points about feminism and the women’s movement. Let me say from the start that I believe both Mr. Herrero and Mr. Campbell are sympathetic to the disadvantaged position of women in society. Their opposition seems to be their concern that feminism is too limiting an ideology with which to align oneself. I hope to dispel this concern and to express again the imperative for feminism and its intentions.

Mr. Herrero states in his article: “Feminism reduces a universal outlook,” alienating students with its preoccupation with women’s situations. I cannot agree with this idea, nor with his assessment of feminism as “a system which subordinates all other concerns to the concerns of women and their struggle for equality.” His words only illustrate common misconceptions. Feminism is not a system, nor is it a “bandwagon” (and when I used the word “bandwagon” in connection to feminism, I was being facetious). Feminism is the belief that women should have rights equal to those of men, and the movement for social reform inspired by that belief. Feminism seeks not to eliminate existing structures but to incorporate women and their concerns completely and equally into the system, to balance an unequal see-saw.

It is a mistake to believe, then, as Mr. Herrero does, that feminism is a reductionist position; Feminism is not exclusive. Being a feminist does not mean you cannot be anything else (that is, an advocate for minority, disabled, or elderly rights, for abolition of apartheid or for nuclear disarmament, etc.) feminism can be one aspect of a philosophy for social reform.

In my article I sought to dispel the inappropriate negative connotations of the word itself and to define feminism correctly for students as the belief that women should have political, economic, and social rights equal to those of men. Because most people, particularly educated people, share this belief and try to act accordingly, I concluded and still assert that most people are feminists. The difficulty comes with the failure to appreciate the necessity of aligning oneself formally with the movement by saying “I am a feminist.” Gloria Steinem acknowledges the I’m-not-a-feminist-but category, and demonstrates more understanding than I when she says:

All effective actions taken against [sexism] will contribute to society’s radical transformation in the end. And this will happen whether the acts are taken by radical feminists or by someone who says uncertainly, “I’m not a feminist but . . . .”

It is my conviction that if you are “not a feminist but . . . .” you are a feminist who is hindered by semantics. In its simplest sense the word is a noun or an adjective that describes a particular condition. If you have blond hair, you are a blond. If you graduate from Davidson, you are a college graduate. If you advocate equal rights for women, you are a feminist.

Mr. Herrero is “not a feminist but . . .” he chooses “to take action simply by treating the women around [him] with the respect that they deserve as individuals.” It seems his position is shared by many students who confront me with the statement: “I’m not a feminist but I advocate equality for women; I oppose discrimination and sexism whenever I encounter it. Even though I act like a feminist, I do not see the necessity of calling myself one.” This attitude puzzles and disheartens me. Feminism needs every voice and all the help it can get. If you are truly committed to your conviction, why do you hesitate to strengthen the movement through consolidation? I draw a hesitant analogy. If an organization forms to add more books to the library, and you, in support of the idea that more books are needed, spend $100 on books and give them to the library, wouldn’t your efforts and money have been put to better use and had more power if you had actually become a member of the “Organization to Choose New Library Books.” An active assertion of your feminism joins your choices, actions, resources, and ideas with those of many other individuals. Feminism institutionalizes the reform that we all advocate.

Why say the word? Why not? And if your final hesitation is indeed based on the negative but mostly media-perpetuated image of feminism, consider these words:

Cautious, careful people always casting about to preserve their reputation or social standards never can bring about reform. Those who are really in earnest are willing to be anything or nothing in the world’s estimation, and publicly and privately, in season and out, avow their sympathies with despised ideas and their advocates, and bear the consequences.

That statement, Steinem reminds us, was made in 1873 by Susan B. Anthony. And look what happened to her.

If Mr. Herrero is “not a feminist but . . .” then Mr. Campbell is not only a feminist, but a radical feminist. I say this because he seeks to dispel discrimination against women and all people by eliminating the thing he feels is at the root of social inequality, the practice of stereotyping. Going to the root is what “radical” means. The reform Mr. Campbell desires is noble but so wide-ranging as to be almost unimaginable. Unfortunately, Mr. Campbell is also guilty of the very action he would eliminate. In his argument he himself makes numerous generalizations and false assumptions regarding feminism and its intents. To begin with, using phrases like “feminist battle cries,” “cry for war,” and “battle call... to rally around the feminist flag,” Mr. Campbell stereotypes feminists as waging a war.against society. We are not on the warpath against anybody; we are reformers. And it’s never “we” against “you,” Mr. Campbell; it’s “we” need “you.” Mr. Campbell makes the bold but erroneous statement: “Feminism seeks to remove male/female distinctions by making male/female distinctions,” and continues to presume that feminism claims, “We women are no different from you men.” Quite the contrary — We women are plenty different from (but not inferior to) you men and we like it that way. But we don’t like being paid less than you for equal work, or being considered less capable than you, or being valued less than you, or being denied the rights you are allowed. Feminism points out the male/female distinctions society makes that create unequal opportunities for women. As his argument proceeds, Mr. Campbell incorrectly determines that feminism makes broad generalizations about, or stereotypes, both sexes based on those male/female distinctions. These generalizations include “Men are more violent than ... Men are more aggressive than women.” Again, Mr. Campbell is making incorrect assumptions about the assumptions feminism makes. Feminism acknowledges that society has created a climate in which violent and aggressive behavior by men (as opposed to women) is encouraged. Feminism wants to change that situation and remove the propensity for oppression of women implicit in such a society. Finally, feminists do not, as Mr. Campbell seems to generalize, stereotype “all women as oppressed and all men as oppressors.” I do not feel oppressed by men, but I do feel oppressed by society. Feminism wants to reform a society where some women can be and are oppressed. To be able to make the argument against feminism that he does, Mr. Campbell must make generalizations about feminism. His generalizations, many more than the few I have cited here, are careless and incorrect. If “a feminism position appears to (Mr. Campbell to) perpetuate as many stereotypes as it seeks to dispel,” it is because these are incorrect stereotypes he has been socialized into assuming. Although his intention in seeking to remove “the societal tendency to perpetuate harmful stereotypes” is admirable, he must first rid himself of that same tendency. I return to my original argument. Affirmation of those eight statements from January 24 indicates a belief in equality for women, and that, my friends, is feminism. But as exhilarating as feminism is for me and as much as I enjoy discussion, I do not expect you to devote as much energy as I (although I would like for you to), only to acknowledge your feminism. At times I grow weary of searching for analogies that will make feminism undeniable or microwave-ready or as imperative for you as it is to me. The problem has plagued the women's movement from the beginning. Adrienne Rich writes: How shall we ever make the world intelligent on our movement? I do not think the answer lies in trying to render feminism easy, popular, and instantly gratifying. To conjure with the passive culture and adapt to its rules is to degrade and deny the fullness of our meaning and intention... For many... the feminist movement is simply whatever the mass media say it is... Willful ignorance, reductiveness, caricature, distortion, trivialization — these are familiar utensils... in the rhetoric of the... opposition. I can only try to show you why you are a feminist; I cannot tell you what you should do as a feminist. At last it will be your own intelligence and sympathy that will enable you to go beyond the distortions made by the media and society to understand feminism. The imperative must come from you.

Lambert is a senior English major from Atlanta, Ga.

Continue space efforts as memorial
Bruce Sarkisian

I will always remember what I was doing at 11:40 a.m. on January 28, 1986, just as those who were alive when President Kennedy was shot remember exactly where they were when they heard of his assassination. The explosion of the space shuttle miles above the Atlantic Ocean is destined to be one of the great tragedies of our time. Never before in the history of the space program had any astronauts died after launch. Launches of the space shuttle had become so routine that they were not even televised. In a way, this too is tragic because the American people became so complacent about the space program that they failed to appreciate all the work that went into launching the shuttle and the beauty of the craft rising through the clear blue sky. They also forgot the risk inherent to the space program. It has been said many times, and it sounds like a cliché, but the truth is that part of the American character is the frontier spirit. Americans have always wanted to expand their borders and their horizons of knowledge. This spirit led to the settlement of the West in the nineteenth century, the Spanish-American War and expansion into the Pacific during McKinley's presidency, and most recently the space program. The frontier of outer space is very appealing because it allows us to expand our knowledge into unknown territories and be the first to do it. The space program was suited perfectly for the American adventurous spirit. It still is. The seven people who died last Tuesday are not martyrs symbolizing America’s failure; they are heroes symbolizing America’s pioneering spirit. They knew the risks they were taking by flying in the shuttle, yet they knew the advances they could make for all the people far outweighed these risks. All of the crew, especially Christa McAuliffe, the teacher from New Hampshire, should be remembered as people who died with great honor for the good of their country. President Reagan said, “The future doesn't belong to the fainthearted.” To stop the space program because of the events of last Tuesday would be truly fainthearted and a violation of the American character. Last week, there were many memorial services to honor the crew of the Challenger, but I believe we would honor them best by continuing our quest to explore outer space.

Sarkisian is a freshman from Bronxville, NY.