2 Friday, April 4, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News Shorts

DERS elections and classes

Oops! When we told you of the Gifts-in-Kind Humor Contest in last week’s edition, we neglected to inform you as
to where to submit your entries: they are to come here, the Davidsonian office. Deadline is 5 p.m. April 30.
Any form of (respectable) humor is welcome, so long as it includes the phrase, “Gifts-in-Kind.” First prize is $100.

The Davidson Emergency Rescue Squad (DERS) held its elections for new officers on March 16. The new officers are:
Laure Van Dierdonk — President
Melissa McLemore — Vice President
Geoff Strouse — Secretary/Treasurer
Jim Taylor — Sophomore Representative

An eight-hour CPR class will be offered to Davidson students on Friday, April 18 (2-6 p.m.) and Saturday, April 19
(10 a.m. to 2 p.m.). The sign-up list will be at the Union desk. The class will be held in
the Big Screen Room and there will be a $10 registration fee.

An EMT (Emergency Medical Technician) class will be offered next year starting Oct. 7. There will be a $12 fee
for all non-rescue squad members. A sign-up list will be at the Union Desk. For EMTs needing recertification, there will
be a class from April 14 to May 7 on Mondays and Wednesdays from 7-10 p.m. The test date is
May 24. Call Laure (-6208) or Melissa (-6026) for more information.

Election results

SGA
Senior senators: Christie Johnson (class president), Libby Sanders, Betsy Penier
Junior senators: Karen Kemerait, Richard Tanner
Sophomore senators: Ken Mobley (class president), John Black, Charles Bratton, Lee Nagendran

Honor Council
Seniors: Bobby Houck, John McNeill, John McNichols
Juniors: Lauren Adams, Andy Bright, Gretchen Schoel
Sophomores: Molly Cochran, Bill Sutton, Bob Vankirk

CCRL: Florence Hay, Jeff Meyer
SCC: Elizabeth Boone, Rufus Timberlake
Review Board: Conrad Doenges

Get ready soon for Fall term elections.

Senior Gift decided upon

The 1986 senior class decided to support Davidson's International Program with its class gift. The class of ’86 hopes that
the gift will provide a good foundation for the Dean Rusk Program. The gift is entitled The Class of 1986
Summer Abroad Scholarship, and it is designed to enable students to create their own plan of work, study, and travel
abroad. The 1986 Summer Abroad scholarship will honor one or more students with a standard financial reward. A selection committee
composed of representatives from the Class of 1986 and the Dean Rusk Program Faculty Advisory Committee will receive and review
the applications for the scholarship. All scholarship recipients will be required to share publicly their summer abroad experiences. This requirement
is intended to raise the international awareness of Davidson students and faculty. The goal of the class is to raise
$65,000 over a five-year period. The actual pledging campaign began March 24. Sixty members of the current senior class were
selected to act as brokers for the gift. The brokers attended a mandatory broker training session March 23 where they
received instruction from experts, College President John Kuykendall, Dr. John Griffith, and Ambassador Jack Perry as to how to solicit
pledges from their classmates. Each broker is responsible for contacting a maximum of five pre-assigned seniors. The two-week pledge campaign
runs from March 24 to April 4.

Material contributed by Laurin DeBeck.

Chancellor needed

Is anyone interested in being the new SGA Chancellor? Duties include...writing minutes, treasurer, keeping record of attendance at weekly meetings,
and various “odd jobs.” Compensation is $200 per term. Interested students should contact Mark Sandy (-6409) or Merry Be Haas
(-6309) by Monday, April 7.

By NELLE MCCORKLE

The Careers Office sponsored its annual orientation session for freshmen and sophomores Wednesday at 7:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Careers Office Director Ken Wood spoke on selecting a major, finding internships, and choosing a career to an audience of
twenty students. Careers Office resources available to underclassmen include corporate information files, Davidson alumni mailing address computer print-outs organized by
vocation or city, and individual developmental testing, according to Assistant Director Carol Jordan. An IBM Personal Computer with a Discover
software package will also be available for aptitude and interest testing by fall 1986.

The Careers Office plans to conduct networking, life work planning, and resume-writing seminars in fall 1986 open to upper and
underclassmen. “Every year,” Wood said, “seniors say, ‘I wish I'd known about these things when I was a freshman or
sophomore...’ We try to get students to take responsibility for their careers as soon as possible.”

“I really believe that attempting to be as fully alive in each moment as possible is the best preparation for
a career,” Wood said. “Most of you won't leave here and go into a career.” He cited national averages which
show that a job change occurs every two years and three different careers during an individual's working life.

Wood emphasized the importance of course selection rather than choice of major. “How you package your experience at Davidson, including
extracurricular activities, is important.” He called externships and internships valuable for the exposure they offer students to a specific field;
the Careers Office places approximately thirty-five students each term in Charlotte internships: “Most get course credit.”

“I don't know anyone who takes grades seriously. I'm not putting grades down, but it’s not the only way to
prepare yourself for the future,” Wood said. “The Davidson sheepskin is well-known in the Southeast. It will get you some
interviews, but it won't get you any jobs,” he said.

Following the meeting, Wood showed a 15-minute film on the Washington Center, a nonprofit organization through which Davidson students can
earn course credit by working as interns in Washington, D.C.

Potok Continued from page 1

talization of thoughts.” The confrontation here results in the resolution and fusion of values. In his readings of My Name
is Asher Lev, Potok interpreted the aesthetic problem of intellectual confrontation in culture, in which compartmentalization of values and thoughts
is impossible. The Jewish artist has a problem entering Western art because the only available motifs and expressions as a
model in Western art are based on pagan or Christian culture. Thus the Jewish artist must compromise his values in
light of these motifs and make choices for his art to resolve this core confrontation with periphery influence. He discussed
In the Beginning, revealing the tenuous mental process of fusing diverse cultures. He showed that there is a price to
be paid for this process of intellectual fusion. Finally, he interpreted his The Book of Lights as core to core
confrontation resulting in no answers.

Careers Office aims to assist students’ futures

College Relations
