Friday, May 9, 1986

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Diplomat outlines Sweden’s view of superpowers

By AARON LEVINE

This week’s Open Luncheon featured Erk Pierre of the Swedish foreign service speaking on “The Swedish View of Arms Control.”
In explaining Sweden's neutrality, Pierre stated, “Small countries are never happy with relationships with big countries. If the major superpowers
get touchy, they could push a small country about.” Such a situation occurs when the large superpowers get too close
to the small country. This has been a problem for Sweden ever since the early 18th century, when Great Britain
and Russia were the two big European superpowers. Sweden has always tried to keep her distance from superpower conflict. The
non-aggression pact between Germany and Russia in which Russia was given a “blank check” to take the Baltic States and
attacked Finland, shows what can happen when a superpower conflict comes into contact with neutral areas.

This sense of neutrality is the Swedish policy towards the arms race. Sweden refuses to act in accordance with the
nuclear policy of either the United States or the Soviet Union. Realizing that only through disarmament can neutral nations have
their rights respected, Sweden has taken the lead in arguing for a comprehensive test-ban treaty with an independent monitor in
Sweden. When this proposal was first presented in 1977, both the United States and the Soviet Union rejected the idea
saying that such a treaty would prevent new atomic weaponry from being tested.

The Swedish involvement in disarmament goes on. In the late 1970s a commission began to formulate a plan, brought out
in 1982, for a nuclear-free corridor in Europe on the line between East and West Germany. On each side of
the border, the free area would be 150 kilometers wide. Hopefully such a plan would reduce the possibility of one
side triggering a nuclear exchange by “not running a risk of having a local commander fire without previous political authorization.”
Unfortunately, the West Germans deflated the idea by deploying nuclear warheads at the border with East Germany, rendering the free
zone worthless. Yet the idea sparked debate within NATO on the nuclear-free zone idea.

Sweden has also suggested a similar zone in the Nordic area. This would be beneficial for Sweden since they do
not have a nuclear force, and this plan, if put into effect, would hopefully prevent the Soviet nuclear fleet in
the Baltic from threatening Scandinavia. However, as long as Denmark and Norway retain their existing option of asking for nuclear
weapons from NATO if the need arises, the plan would be ineffective. Sweden has no desire to criticize the plans
of the other Nordic countries, but hopes a final plan incorporating the desires of all three nations can be worked
out.

When asked of his opinion on the progress of the nuclear arms talks, Pierre stated, “I came to Washington as
an optimist; I saw the Reagan Administration moving from earlier rhetoric. As I leave Washington, I am pessimistic and doubt
an agreement before 1988.”

Finally, when asked for the Swedish view of Reagan’s “Strategic Defense Initiative,” Pierre stated that it is considered to be
too costly, and would fail as a population shelter. He believes the S.D.I. talk will die down after 1988.

Public defender looks past crime to person

By LAURA GABEL

Isabel Day, public defender in Charlotte, spoke on “How can you Isabel Day defend those people?” on Tuesday night in
the 900 Room. “Who are these criminal defendants?” Day asked. She explained that “neighborhood lynch mobs have a different idea”
than she does. Day said she has only represented one person who was truly mean — a murderer. This is
the only person who has ever scared Day. But her job is to look beyond the criminal act at the
person. “Sheer meanness is unusual,” she recalled.

Day handles only criminal cases where the defendant cannot afford an attorney. Day pointed out that the North Carolina Court
Commission did a study and discovered that public defenders are good, and perhaps even better than private law firms. Day
categorized several criminal defendants who are “poor in terms of money, but not in terms of spirit” as the “mercenary,”
“the one who got away,” “white bread,” or “the Merita sisters,” and “the life and death case.”

The “mercenary” is the guy who makes as much money in a week as Day makes in a year, and
tells her so. “The"One who got away" is the guy who, after she won his case (he was accused of
driving with a revoked license), drove off. The "white bread" is the guy down on Kentucky Street who sells drugs.
She got him off, and he went right back to selling drugs. "The life and death case" is Beaver Camp,
a young man much like Helen Keller (he was retarded and could not express himself). He expressed himself by actions
and by crying. He eventually killed someone and went to jail. All he wanted was respect, and he received that
in jail because of the atrocity of his crime, Day said. Day said, "Long before the crime is committed, we
need to be equally concerned with people like Beaver Camp as we are with people like the president of the
college."

Day’s reaction to "the one who got away" was one of disappointment: "He lied to me and I was almost
unaware of what was happening. I certainly would do it again. If they say they aren’t guilty, I don’t have
a problem with that." If Day knows that the client is guilty, she tries to lighten the sentence.

Eric Pierre Pierre is the former political counselor for the Swedish Embassy in Washington, D.C. A former journalist and an
expert on nuclear weapons and arms control, he worked for the Swedish defense staff in security. Some people attending the
talk were bothered by the fact that Day defends even guilty people. Day explains, "I don’t act as a judge
over my client." She said she has never wanted to be a judge. "Prisons, to me, are useless. But I
think that this guy ('white bread') was out there with 100 other guys selling nickel bags of marijuana to any
white folks who drive by. He’s non-consequential compared to the big dealer in Charlotte."

Day feels that rehabilitation programs are expensive in money and in individualistic commitment. She referred to a young arsonist that
has simply been "warehoused" in prison with no rehabilitation. "If he doesn’t get noticed, he’ll set fires again."

Continued on page two.

Trustees Continued from page one.

Funding base for women’s sports and addition of a women’s coaching position as two examples of response by the Athletic
Department to the report presented to the trustees. "The coaching position in all likelihood will be a head coach in
volleyball who will have additional responsibilities in the department," Morris said.

The Committee to Review the Current Status of Women's Athletics originated in Morris’ suggestion to Kuykendall that the existing program
be evaluated. Kuykendall appointed the committee whose report the trustees received. "Although it initially focused on varsity sports, the committee
broadened its comments to include club sports and recreational sports. I for one view it as a very good first
effort in this area."

The trustees approved an SGA bylaws amendment replacing dorm senators with eating house and fraternity senators pending SGA revision. "The
trustees asked that the senate clarify how groups would be added to and removed from the list of social organizations,"
Sandy said. "They (the trustees) liked the spirit of the amendment but wanted to clarify those two aspects."

Informal discussion of current self-selection policy led to the Board's directing Dean of Students Will Terry, the Council on Campus
and Religious Life (CCRL), and Kuykendall to establish a 1986-1987 self-selection calendar. "The Board gave the Dean, President, and Council
(CCRL) a green light on designing a rush program for Patterson Court," Terry said. The board will receive this program
recommendation at its October meeting, Terry said.

In other business, the trustees adopted the proposed Strategic Planning Document; they also drafted resolutions honoring Business Manager Bob Currie
and Zimmermann. Currie retired this year after 28 years as business manager. Zimmermann will become Dana Professor of History after
a sabbatical next year following his resignation as vice president for academic affairs and dean of the faculty.

Students Against Apartheid wrote an open letter regarding college investment policy in South Africa, read by the trustees. Chairman of
the Board Ben Craig said, "The Finance Committee of the Board of Trustees will have an open meeting on campus
at which time they'll hear from students, faculty, and administration about their attitude toward the College's investment policy." Craig said
this forum will probably be held in September, with the trustees receiving response during the October Board meeting.

First Union National Bank
Downtown Davidson
Huntersville
