2

Finch awarded $28,000 scholarship

Davidson sophomore Keith Finch has been named a 1986 Harry S Truman scholar by the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation. The Truman Scholarship, which carries an annual stipend of $7,000 per year for each of the last two years of college as well as the first two years of graduate study, was awarded on April 14 to 102 college sophomores who “demonstrated a firm commitment to public service.” The selection process began in October with the interviewing and selection of potential candidates by appointed faculty representatives of over 2,000 colleges and universities. A total of 952 nominations were received by the Foundation. Davidson’s nominees were Finch and sophomore James Earl. Finch is the second Davidson student to be named a Truman scholar in recent years. Junior Mark Sandy was named a scholar in 1985.

AIC proposes new budget

Continued from page one.

pays $10 per year and about $1,200 of the BSC budget is social. Obviously, most of the students there are not from the same socio-economic background as the typical Davidson student so generally they just don't have as much money. Yet I feel, personally, that $10 is not enough. I think it’s fair that we ask that they contribute a little more to their budget than $10 each year.

“In addition, they don’t solicit their alumni for money, which is a common practice of other Patterson Court houses, and we feel that they could do a better job by soliciting their alumni for a little help. We still thought that $4,500 was certainly a good budget. If there is an obvious avenue there for funds and an organization is not taking advantage of it, then we feel that it wouldn’t be quite as justified to give a whole lot of money to that organization.

“Rape Crisis, for example, got a $5,000 government grant this year. They only asked ATC for $355 because the money they got from the grant was stipulated for use only in training. We gave them their request to meet minor expenses like postage and publicity.”

Other considerations also led the ATC to refuse to meet some requests, Gordon said. “Hobart Park is something we struggle with every year and if you look at the budget you'll see that they asked for $3,500 and we granted them $2,500. They haven’t published an issue yet this year, and they like to come out with an issue late in the year, which is understandable, because that’s when the Vereen Bell and other awards come out. They'd like to have award-winning submissions in Hobart Park, which makes a lot of sense.

“Well, they've got a 64-page issue coming out very soon and that’s going to be followed up right on its heels by another short issue. But the problem is that it’s expected that they have one issue in the fall and one issue in the spring, but it has not worked out that way — there have been problems with the organization each year. It’s kind of difficult to keep allocating a lot of money when the product is not as good as it could be.”

“Hobart Park is important at Davidson — there’s no doubt about that, because there are some creative writers here and they need some place to publish their work. What we recommended was one year-end issue of 100 pages, and we calculated that $2,500 would be enough for that. The editors would like two 64-page issues because they feel that has been that it hasn’t worked out to two 64-page issues. So we'd like to see a big year-end issue — that’s all we can recommend. They'll get their budget and they'll do what they want to with it. We can’t tell them anything.”

Gordon said that club sports, which requested $9,028, only received $7,500 primarily due to a misunderstanding on the part of the men’s club tennis team. “They asked for $2200 — money to buy graphite tennis racquets, money to buy shoes, money to buy uniforms — and that’s not what club tennis is for.” Gordon said that the cost of club sports might also decrease as a result of the inactivity of the water ski team and the possible varsity status of the women’s club volleyball team.

Gordon said that The Davidsonian, which requested $15,000, received only $14,000 in appropriations because the ATC felt that Davidsonian advertising and subscription revenue could be increased substantially. The ATC also appropriated funds to...

Friday, May 2, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation was established in 1976 by an Act of Congress as the nation’s living memorial to the 33rd president.

May Day celebrates women

The Davidson College Union hosted its second annual “Celebrate Women: A May Day Festival” event yesterday, organized by the president of the Women’s Concerns Committee, junior Sarah Smith. The celebration included singing and poetry readings and provided free refreshments of fruit and stir-fry. Material contributed by Heidi Hooker.Quips & Cranks, the college annual, even though the publication had not submitted a formal request for money. Quips & Cranks did not submit a request because no one has sought its '86-'87 editorship. The ATC proposed the continuation of Quips & Cranks '85-'86 appropriation of $26,000. Gordon explained that he was asked to chair the ATC by SGA president Mark Sandy because he had served on the council during his sophomore year and because he was not a member of the SGA. Gordon solicited and selected the five student members of the ATC, of whom two are SGA senators and three are from the student body at large. His selections were approved by the SGA. This year there was no fall issue, and the year before that there was some misuse of money. We'd like to see Hobart Park come out with two strong issues, but we have to act upon what has happened in the past and the history of it thus far. The ATC is independent of the SGA and must be chaired by a student who is not a member of the SGA. Gordon said that the other student members of the ATC were senior Kevin Burke, juniors Shel Robinson and Christie Johnson, and sophomores Sabrina Walton and Ken Mobley. Other members from the college staff are Dean of Students Will Terry, College Union Director William Brown, Davidson, and Business Manager Bob Currie.

Conference focuses on Central America
By JIM DILLON

Approximately 50 people including students, faculty, staff, and the community participated in the first Dean Rusk Conference. Chairman of the student planning committee Dee Reynolds said he was pleased with the response. “I was quite pleased with the mixture of people who attended,” Reynolds said. “There were freshmen, international students, seniors, staff, faculty, and members of the community. It was an all-around mixture of people, and that pleased me that it didn’t just appeal to a particular group.”

The conference opened with a presentation by Allen Wells, an Appalachian State University professor of modern and colonial Latin American history who gave a historical perspective on Central America. Davidson Spanish professor Lois Kemp, who led a discussion group at the conference, said his presentation revolved around details of American intervention in Central America. “He went into the long traditional U.S. habit of intervening whenever there’s a government we cannot control. He gave a very good overview. He was very dynamic, and he knew his facts,” Kemp said.

Wells discussed the current controversy over proposed $100 million spending to militarily support the contra rebels in Nicaragua supported by President Reagan. Kemp said that Wells’ view is that the money would be “largely symbolic” but actually minute in comparison to total U.S. money spent in Hispanic America. “Nine and a half million dollars actually goes for military aid to Central America and generally a certain amount goes for economic aid. That's an enormous amount of money, and $100 million seems like nothing,” Kemp said.

After dinner Friday night, Duncan Earle, an anthropology professor at Dartmouth College, presented a slide show and spoke of government-sponsored violence against the Highland Maya Indians in Guatemala. Reynolds said Earle estimated that as many as 150,000 Indians have disappeared or died by such means in the past 10 years. “That’s 150,000 out of a total Indian population of only five million so in many ways it is genocide. He talked about the type of effect that has on Indian society and culture,” Reynolds said.

Earle has lived with the Highland Maya Indians about half of the last 10 years and can speak one Indian language and can “handle another,” according to Kemp. Kemp said Earle expressed an anthropological view of the situation. “Almost half of the population of the country is expendable as far as the government is concerned. Four hundred villages disappeared in 1982-83. These are whole villages, not just individuals, but that is the government’s answer to any suspicion concerning Indians. The Guatemalan army is one of the most sophisticated, almost to the point of being computerized. It is also one of the most effective and brutal, and their enemy is the Indian who might want to change anything,” Kemp said.

Kemp noted that in Guatemala, the guerrillas are not capable of understanding the Indians because there are 23 different language groups in the nation and seven more in a nearby Mexican state. The existence of so many Indian language groups is a situation unique to Guatemala. Saturday morning, the group divided into four smaller discus-

Continued on page 3