Friday, May 2, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

Soviets suffer nuclear reactor meltdown
By JANE AURELL

Headlining the news for the week of April 23-30:

International news — Saturday, an accident occurred at a Soviet nuclear power plant located in Chernobyl, 80 miles north of
Kiev. The Soviet Union publicly announced the accident on Monday and has been reserved in its disclosure of details. The
U.S.S.R. reports two deaths due to the accident, but unofficial estimates are that as many as 2,000 may have died.
To date, a fire emitting radiation is still burning inside of the reactor, and a radiation “cloud” has reportedly spread
over Eastern Europe and Scandinavia. Some radiation may reach the U.S. by the weekend, but experts say no health hazard
is posed. The U.S. has offered the U.S.S.R. humanitarian and diplomatic aid; however, there has been no response so far.
This accident is believed by experts to be the worst in history. United States radiation experts at the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission believe that radiation exposure to people living near the reactor may be 10,000 times greater than the maximum exposure
to people who lived near the Three Mile Island plant in 1979.

President Reagan telephoned Filipino President Corazon Aquino last week offering U.S. assistance in “meeting the challenges that lie before her
government.” In the same conversation, Aquino accepted Reagan’s invitation to visit the U.S. sometime after this fall’s elections. In addition,
Reagan asked Congress to give the Philippines $100 million in economic aid and $50 million in military aid. Last Thursday,
communist rebels launched an ambush killing 13 soldiers and two journalists; in retaliation, Philippine forces attacked communist strongholds in the
northern Philippines. On Monday, although accusing each other of continued violence, the communist rebels and the military both offered support
for a cease-fire; in the past week 70 people have been killed in clashes between the military and the communist
insurgents.

On Monday, former Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos spoke from Hawaii, by means of a live telephone hook-up, to his supporters
in the Philippines; calling himself the legitimate president of the Philippines, Marcos urged his supporters to fight against the Aquino
government. During a lay-over in Hawaii on his way to a seven-day economic summit in Tokyo, President Reagan spoke by
telephone with Marcos and reiterated his support for the Aquino government.

Over the weekend, Italian judicial sources reported that investigations into an aborted year-old plot by Libyans to assassinate the U.S.
ambassador to Rome has yielded evidence linking the Libyan Peoples Bureau to other terrorist activity in Western Europe and Egypt.
Additionally, by ousting ten Libyan diplomats, Italy joined eight other European countries who have recently ousted Libyans. Belgium expelled seven
Libyan diplomats on Monday. In a related event, landlords of a Dallas, Texas apartment high-rise asked Mark Thatcher, the 32-year-old
son of British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, to vacate his apartment for fear that the safety of other tenants could
be jeopardized if he were to become the target of Libyan terrorism. Margaret Thatcher was the only European leader to
openly assist the U.S. in the April 15 raid on Libya. Furthermore, in reaction to Britain's involvement, a British tourist
was killed Monday in Jerusalem; a group led by Palestinian terrorist Abu Nidal has claimed responsibility.

Meanwhile, U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz suggested “disruptive covert action” against Libya and other terrorist attacks; however, Shultz commented
that he is opposed to the assassination of foreign leaders. The U.S. aircraft carrier Enterprise has been moved from its
station in the Indian Ocean to join another U.S. carrier in the Mediterranean; this action is in accordance with a
U.S. pledge to keep two aircraft carriers in the Mediterranean.

In other developments, the tiny nation of Swaziland, landlocked between Mozambique and South Africa, crowned the world’s youngest monarch. The
18-year-old King Mswati III succeeds his father who ruled the nation of 600,000 for 60 years, and until his death
in 1982 was the world’s longest reigning monarch. Maureen Reagan, Prince and Princess Michael of Kent, and South Africa’s President
P.W. Botha were among the representatives sent by over 30 nations. Also in Africa, after 17 years of military rule,
the Sudanese Parliament opened, with its first task being to form a new government.

In defiance of Chilean President Augusto Pinochet, the National Assembly of Civilian Society, an assembly representing nearly all middle-class and
white-collar organizations in Chile, announced a broad campaign of civil disobedience as a new effort aimed at ending the country’s
military rule.

An earthquake measuring seven on the Richter scale rocked Mexico City on Tuesday, but no serious injuries have been reported.
In India earlier this week, an earthquake measuring 5.7 on the Richter scale rumbled near Dharmsala in the Himachal Pradesh
state; two persons were killed and 30 were injured. France conducted an underground nuclear test in the southern Pacific Ocean
3,000 miles from New Zealand.

Wallis Simpson, the American woman for whom King Edward VIII gave up the throne to marry, died Thursday at the
age of 89. Japan’s Emperor Hirohito celebrated his 85th birthday and 60th anniversary of his reign on Tuesday.

National News — Before arriving in Tokyo for the seven-day Economic Summit, President Reagan stopped over in Hawaii, then flew
on to Bali where he met with the Foreign Ministers of the six member nations of the Association of South
East Asian Nations (ASEAN). Neal Sher, the Director of the Justice Department's Office of Special Investigations, recommended that former U.N.
Secretary General Kurt Waldheim be barred from entering the U.S. on grounds of being a “suspected war criminal” who lied
about his Nazi ties during WWII. Sher’s recommendation has not yet been approved, and Waldheim has dismissed it as insignificant,
while repeating his position that all accusations will prove unfounded. To date, surveys indicate that Waldheim holds a seven-point lead
in theCampaign for the Austrian presidency; elections are to be held May 4. Contained within a classified directive tentatively calling
for the dismantling of two Poseidon submarines in order to adhere to the unratified SALT II treaty, administration sources report
that President Reagan ordered a study to investigate the U.S. need to develop a multiple-warhead missile to either complement other
missiles in the land-based arsenal or be an alternative to the “Midgetman” envisioned by the Air Force.

A New York Times combined investigation of federal audits, government documents, and interviews with U.S. space experts revealed that NASA
contractors have wasted billions of dollars on the space shuttle and other space projects due primarily to bad management. Experts
say that faulty NASA administration is “impossible to separate from safety problems.” More than three months after the shuttle Challenger
explosion, the remains of the seven astronauts have been positively identified and returned to their families for burial.

Giving his testimony at the espionage trial of his “best friend” Jerry Whitworth, confessed spy John Walker blamed depression stemming
from marital problems for his decision to disclose valuable U.S. Navy secrets to the U.S.S.R. and said that he recruited
his friend in 1974 after determining that Whitworth had “larceny in his heart.”

Data gathered by a Texas demographer at Southern Methodist University reveals that recent population losses in Houston, due largely to
the collapse in the state’s oil-related industries, may cause Philadelphia to regain its spot as the fourth largest U.S. city;
Philadelphia lost its position to Houston in 1982.

Astronomers say that new measuring techniques reveal that the Milky Way is 25 percent smaller than previously believed.

Thought for the Week: “The greatest dangers to liberty lurk in the insidious encroachment by men of zeal, well-meaning but
without understanding.” — Associate Justice Louis Brandeis of the U.S. Supreme Court

Dean Rusk conference Continued from page 2

Session groups which dealt with: the interface of politics and the economy, led by political science professors Brian Shaw and
Lou Ortmayer; the legacy of development, led by Wells and economics professor Louise Nelson; liberation and theology, led by religion
professor David Kaylor and chaplain Charlie Summers, and preserving cultural identities, led by Earle and Kemp. Afterwards, an overview of
U.S. policy toward Central America was presented by William M. Jackson, a senior fellow in the Albright Institute at the
University of Arkansas and a former Davidson political science professor. Reynolds said his presentation dealt primarily with U.S. policy toward
Nicaragua.

Reynolds said Central America was chosen as a topic for the first conference because it is “in the news” and
also something about which people need to know more. “The Central American conflict is often thought of in terms of
a U.S.-Nicaraguan conflict, but it is really much more complex. We aimed to show that there are different issues at
stake in the region. The conference is not one for experts but for people who wanted to get a better
understanding of the region. There’s no way we can claim that we understand Central America after a two-day conference, but
now, I think we know the questions we should be asking and the things we should be considering as we
form opinions. I hope that it will perk people’s interest and challenge them to learn more,” Reynolds said.

Task force formed to study athletics
By MIKE ADAMS

At last Friday's Southern Conference spring meeting, Athletic Director Christopher Morris withdrew a proposed amendment that would have allowed Davidson
to continue its Southern Conference affiliation while playing football in the Colonial League. The decision to withdraw was made late
Thursday night after straw polls showed little support for the amendment. On Friday, a task force was set up to
study options that will allow Davidson to maintain its Southern Conference membership.

The Southern Conference currently requires each member institution to compete for conference championships in football, basketball, and six other men’s
varsity sports. Davidson's amendment would have allowed institutions that offer only need-based aid to be excused from championship competition in
football. These schools would still play three Southern Conference opponents in football each season and would play all of the
Southern Conference teams in a five-year span.

Athletic directors and faculty representatives from the other Southern Conference schools opposed this amendment because it left too many unanswered
questions. It did not indicate whether games played between a Southern Conference team competing for the championship and one excused
would count on the conference record of the former. It did not state whether a team excused from championship play
would be allowed to vote on football issues or share in conference television revenues from football.

Morris blames the inadequacy of the proposed amendment on a lack of communication with other athletic directors in the conference
about what was acceptable to them. “The original proposal was hatched in a vacuum,” he said.

The proposal to set up a task force to study options to keep Davidson in the Southern Conference passed by
a 9-0 margin, indicating that while the amendment was unacceptable, there is still support for Davidson's cause. The task force
committee is composed of Morris, Appalachian State Athletic Director Jim Garner, VMI Athletic Director Fred Hyman, and East Tennessee State
faculty representative Charles Clark. Morris is optimistic about the committee's chances of finding a workable solution. Garner has gone on
record as being opposed to any exceptions for Davidson football, and, according to Morris, he will provide “immediate feedback about
anything put on the table.” His presence will ensure that the task force will not submit a totally unacceptable proposal.

The task force will meet during the spring and summer to prepare a proposal for a special Southern Conference meeting
in late summer or early fall.
