“——— Friday, September 26, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bleacher Seat——

Suggestions to beat the halftime blues

MIKE ADAMS
Kit Morris, Davidson's athletic director, and Vic Gatto, head football coach, are facing a serious crisis at this point in
time. They must decide — sometime before the next Wildcat home game — what to do about halftime.

This dilemma has come about due to a sad series of second-half slumps suffered by Davidson’s undermanned — and often
outmanned — gridders on their own turf. Twice the Cats have let first-half leads — 14-3 against Lenoir-Rhyne, 10-6 against
Wofford — get away and ended up losing by scores of 31-14 and 20-10.

To add insult to injury, even the halftime show was a bust at the Wofford game. A lady jumped on
the field and had to be helped off. No big deal, usually, but this lady jumped out of a plane
flying at 6000 feet, hit the 40-yard line, and had to be helped off by an ambulance.

For these reasons, it is essential that the Davidson athletic staff seriously consider two options.

Option one would entail shortening the game to 30 minutes. There would be two fifteen-minute periods with only a brief
time out between them. If the Wildcats are reluctant to admit beforehand that they intend to play only 30 minutes
of football, they can use subterfuge to accomplish this goal. Picture this: five minutes before game time, it is discovered
that all of the footballs intended for use in the game have disappeared. A frenzied search is made, but they
are not found. The officials deputize a planted “volunteer” to go out and buy some replacements. His car runs out
of gas. And so on. With similar tactics, it should be possible to delay the starting time of the game
until 5:30 or so. And since Richardson Stadium does not have lights, the game will have to be called for
darkness after just one half.

Option two would involve keeping the 60-minute length for the game, but disposing of the long halftime break. Such an
option will destroy the possibility of momentum losses and will prevent further halftime show casualties. Option two, like the first
option, may need to be introduced through covert means. This might be accomplished by tampering with opponents' timepieces, but final
procedures for implementation have not yet been worked out.

In considering these options — shortening the game, cutting out halftime, or, as a third choice, maintaining the current system
— Morris and Gatto must face some tough questions.

If there is no halftime, how will half of the Davidson students in attendance know that it is time to
go to a Court party and the other half know it's time to go to the dorm and refill that
cup of, uh, “Pepsi?”

If there is no halftime, when does one go to the bathroom?

And, finally, if there is no halftime, should the Homecoming festivities be held before or after the game?

As Morris and Gatto closet themselves in the following weeks, I’m sure there are countless students like myself who await
with beating hearts their decision on this weighty issue.

This space contributed as a public service.

We've made significant progress against most forms of cancer. But, as far as many people are concerned, cancer is still
a fatal disease.

There are nearly three million people who would disagree. People who have had cancer and are now cured. For certain
forms of cancer, the progress we've made is nothing short of miraculous.

With early detection and prompt treatment, the survival rate for Hodgkin's disease can be as high as 74%. Childhood leukemia:
as high as 65%. Colon and rectal cancer: as high as 75%. Breast cancer: as high as 90%.

Today, one in every two people who get cancer will survive.

As far as we've come, we still have quite a way to go. And for that, we'd like your help.
There's only one place where cancer is a hopeless disease: In your mind.

Help us keep winning.

AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY”
