Gay support group discussed, pp. 13-14

The Davidsonian
Volume LXXV, Number 22
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, May 2, 1986

Activities Tax Council proposes budget
By KEITH FINCH

The Activities Tax Council has presented its proposed budget for the 1986-87 school year to the Student Government Association. The
budget allocates $70,950 to 12 campus organizations chartered by the SGA, and leaves $1,925 unallocated.

Senior Stuart Gordon, Chairman of the Activities Tax Council, said, “The budgeting process worked out well this year, better in
fact than it has in previous years, because the college was more liberal in the way it calculated the amount
of money we had to work with. The budget is based upon the student activities fee, which is $55 per
student — that’s a five dollar increase this year over last year. In addition, the administration calculated the number of
Davidson students more liberally; they had been going on an average of 1,300, but the president and Comptroller Bob Davidson
decided that they could probably estimate enrollment at 1,325 because it usually runs at around that number or higher.”

The decisions to increase the student activities fee and the enrollment projections provided the ATC with the authority to allocate
$72,875, an increase of $7,775 over the funds originally authorized for last year’s budget.

Gordon said that two campus organizations which had previously received no funds from the ATC, the Davidson Dance Troupe and
the Davidson delegation to the North Carolina Student Legislature, asked to be considered for allocations under the ’86-'87 budget. The
Council approved a budget of $450 for the Dance Troupe, but decided not to appropriate any funds for the operation
of the Student Legislature delegation.

“The Dance Troupe used to get Union funds,” Gordon said, “and after existing for two or three years as a
Union group they decided they wanted to get funds of their own, so they applied for a charter through the
SGA. The North Carolina Student Legislature didn’t get money because they are not chartered. Years ago they might have been,
but they don’t have a current charter so they’re going to have to go through SGA and get a charter
before they can be considered for funds from the Activities Tax Council.”

The ATC did not meet the budget requests of five of the campus organizations which applied for funds — The
Davidsonian, the Black Student Coalition, Club Sports, Hobart Park, and the SGA.

Gordon said, “Last year, the ATC cut and cut and finally at the end they had to make a 10
percent across-the-board cut to get in under budget. Some people might be angered when they see that their budgets are
cut this year while we came in with money to spare. But I see no obligation to spend every bit
of the money we have. We had a little bit to spare, which is good, because for the past three
years we've had to dip into the college’s reserve funds to make the budget. I’m glad that we'll have something
to save for next year.”

Gordon explained why the ATC decided not to meet the requests of some organizations: “We examined each organization, what it
had spent in the previous years, what it had been allotted in previous years, and tried to determine how accurately
its budget reflected its needs. Specifically — with the BSC, for example — their big expense is the Martin Luther
King lecture series, which brings in a big name speaker and it’s really important to the BSC because...its their one
big, high-profile event of the year. Each year ATC has encouraged them to seek assistance from sources like the Speaker's
Bureau here (which helps sponsor speakers) because it usually costs the BSC $2,500, or almost half their budget, for just
this one event. It's such a high cost and we know the money is available, but they haven't really thought
out the avenues. “Another main area of concern is their dues. Each member Continued on page two.

Committee recommends dropping women's basketball
By MIKE ADAMS

The President’s Committee on Women’s Athletics delivered its report to President Kuykendall on Tuesday and makes several recommendations for changes
in women’s athletic programs at Davidson, including the demotion of women’s basketball from varsity to club status.

Changes in NCAA bylaws have made it a requirement that a school sponsor at least six women’s teams in Division
I to maintain Division I status for the school’s athletic program. In response to this, the President's Committee has recommended
that Davidson sponsor seven Division I women’s teams: volleyball, field hockey, cross country, indoor track, outdoor track, tennis, and golf.
This recommendation requires that volleyball be moved from club to varsity status. Such a change would involve an increase in
the number of games scheduled by the volleyball team to at least 19 contests against other four-year institutions.

Women’s golf will be a new varsity sport. Davidson fielded a women’s team this spring in a 10-team tournament at
Duke to meet the new NCAA requirements. According to Athletic Director Christopher Morris, the committee felt an obligation to follow
up on that move by establishing a women’s team for the 1986-87 academic year.

The committee also recommended that the women’s basketball team be moved from varsity to club status with what Morris calls
“a reasonable degree of athletic department support.” This support would include the provision of some funding and some coaching, provisions
not available to other club sports.

There are several reasons for the demotion of the basketball team. Under new NCAA bylaws, the women's basketball team could
no longer remain unclassified. It would be forced to move to Division I because, starting in the 1986-87 season, it
will no longer be possible to have one team classified differently from other teams at the same institution. Division I
status would mean that the women’s basketball team would have to play at least 25 games, only four of which
could be against other than Division I competition. In the 1985-86 season, the Davidson women played only one Division I
opponent, losing to Furman by 30 points. In the previous two years, Davidson never came closer than 60 points to
a Division I team.

Morris does not believe that Davidson currently has the resources to support a women’s team at the highest level of
play and the only alternative to Division I is club status. “The NCAA has given us very little room to
move,” he said.

Morris does not think that club status for women’s basketball is necessarily permanent. He indicated that the completion of a
new sports complex will play a role in determining the future of women’s basketball at Davidson. Morris also said that
an additional coach for women’s sports will be hired for the 1986-87 school year. This hiring is possible due to
an increased salary budget for women’s athletics.

The recommendations of the President's Committee will be presented to the Trustee's Athletic Policy Committee and President Kuykendall will make
the final decision on the report.
