Friday, September 12

New field hockey coach seeks fresh start

By EDWIN PAGE

Next Friday, when the Davidson women’s field hockey team plays its home opener, you will probably notice a few new faces on the Davidson sidelines. And while this may be normal, one of the new faces may come as a surprise. The face in question belongs to the team’s new coach, Betsy Pryor.

Pryor comes to Davidson from The Westtown School, a private school near Philadelphia, where she has been head coach for the past three years. In that time, the team moved from last place to runner-up in the Friends Schools League. Before going to Westtown, Pryor coached at Asheville Country Day for three years and was an assistant at Duke for two years after that.

Women’s volleyball opens first varsity season

By MIKE ADAMS

Despite a shaky start, the Davidson women’s volleyball team is set to open its first varsity season after several years at the club level. The elevation to NCAA Division I status came as a result of success at the club level and as a means of preserving Davidson’s Division I status in other sports.

The season began on a sour note when the team’s first-year coach resigned after only four days. Susan Hayes, a graduate assistant athletic trainer, took over the coaching duties about a week later. Hayes said the team continued to practice in the interim.

Hayes said she believes the Lady Cats can accomplish the move to Division I status with little difficulty. She said the talent level has probably fallen because of losses due to graduation, but there are several team members who have played against many of the schools on their schedule and a .500 or better season is certainly possible.

The team is very young, with four freshmen and two sophomores among its 11 members. Hayes said, “They’re young and inexperienced, but they have a lot of enthusiasm and a lot of raw talent.” The Lady Cats are also shorter than most collegiate volleyball squads. They average about 5’7”, while, according to Hayes, most college teams average no less than 5’9”.

Several players have demonstrated strength in preseason practice. Sophomores Maria Douglas and Molly Cochran are both excellent setters and hitters. (A setter, obviously, sets up the shot of the hitter, who attempts to spike the ball to win a point or break the opponent’s service.) Douglas and Cochran are also excellent servers, as are senior Bonnie Bolton and freshman Sarah Johnson.

Junior Beth Elder, at 5’11” the tallest woman on the team, is developing into an excellent front-line player both as a blocker on defense and a hitter on offense. At least for this year, the Lady Cats will be competing in the Southern Conference. Western Carolina is the conference power and one of the strongest teams Davidson will play this year, but the Cats should be able to top Furman and some of the other second-division teams in the conference.

According to Hayes, the most important factor for the team is...

Sports

Pryor accepted the Davidson job on August 23 and reported for work the next week. She takes over a team that posted a 5-?? record last year and is long on inexperience. Although cautious about making any predictions for the season, Pryor says she is “really optimistic about the team. They are willing to work hard and put out a lot of effort. That’s the first step.”

So far, Pryor has stressed the basics: positioning, dribbling, hitting, and stopping the ball. The team’s performance in the Deep South umpiring clinic showed the need to work on these skills. She is also making sure the team will be physically ready to play when they open their season Wednesday at Wake Forest. “I’ve never lost a game because my team was out of shape.”A bright spot for the team this year is that twenty women have come out for the team, the most that have been out in several years. While many of them are inexperienced, the increased competition for spots should be a boon. Once again, the team will be led by senior sweeper Heather McKee. McKee, who Pryor calls a “dominant strength,” will be a key for the team both offensively and defensively. She starts the attack with her long hits and represents the last line of defense before senior goalie Maria Lay.

Lay, who is coming off a surprising year when she was moved from the field to the goal, should improve even more this year. Pryor played goalie and considers developing keepers one of her strengths as a coach. She feels that Lay’s good instincts and aggressive play show a lot of promise.

Senior Polly Northen returns after a one-year absence and should provide a steadying force in the midfield from her center halfback position. Newcomer sophomore Susan Montgomery has shown promise at upsweeper, and freshman Marta Bukowski has made an impact at center forward. Pryor says of her, “she is very quick and aggressive, and she has a great determination to score.”

Due to the inexperience of the team and her own unfamiliarity with the competition on the schedule, Pryor is cautious about evaluating the team’s chances for success. “We have a wide range of players from beginners to some very talented people. We have to put them together and come up with the right combination. We have good potential for success against schools our size. I am really optimistic about the team. Win or lose, we'll be in the game.”

The team’s first home game is scheduled for 4 p.m. next Friday against Salem.

Coach Andrew takes over cross country reins
By PAM HARMANN

The cross country team begins its fall 1986 season with time trials on Sept. 20. Alumni runners have been invited to provide the team competition, and some faculty will run as well. The new cross country course has a rough route which will hopefully be smoothed out by this meet. The Winthrop Invitational on Sept. 27 will be the official season opener.

Coach Gary Andrew is starting his first season as the cross country coach. He arrived in Nov. of 1985 and took over the indoor/outdoor track teams. He formerly coached the Chapel Hill High School cross country team to six state championships. Coach Andrew is assisted by Jay Braun, a 1986 Davidson graduate who was the track captain last season. He is also helping to prepare the cross-country course for preseason track conditioning. The squad began its preseason training on September 3 with a trip to the mountains. They traveled to the Wildcat Den in Little Switzerland where rough, hilly terrain provided intense training.

This season’s squad is filled with talent; yet freshmen and sophomores compose the majority of the squad. Coach Andrew feels the team has excellent prospects who have a really good attitude. Attitude is an important asset to a young, inexperienced team. As captain of the women’s squad, junior Jennifer Wallace puts it, “We all get along very well which makes it fun.”

The top prospects for the men’s squad include seniors Greg Foreman and captain Emil Cekada, junior Chris Fischer, and sophomores Bob Cornish and Bill Whitfield. Freshmen standouts are David Remisiewicz and Jay Clugston, who tied for the cake race title Wednesday. According to Cekada, “As long as the men’s team stays healthy and our young runners develop, I feel we will have the best team we’ve had since I’ve been here.”

Top women runners are juniors Laura Fannin, Morrow Reeves, Wallace, and freshmen recruits English Knowles and Missy Willis. The young team will provide a good base for future seasons, but at the conference meet, Andrew intends to surprise some people.