12 Friday, May 9, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson needs reading days

Heidi Hooker

No one can deny the fact that the trimester system here sets up a rigorous schedule of work for the Davidson student. Some like it, some don’t — it seems to remain an unresolved issue. But I do regret one thing in particular about our trimester system. We race through ten weeks of concentrated work in our classes right into the exam period. With a schedule of regular college courses compacted into the trimester period, I question this absence of reading days. Are we in such a rush to get through the ten-week term that there is no time for reading days before exams? The question is two-fold because it seems that the lack of reading days exposes the administration’s and the faculty’s distrust that Davidson students use their free time productively. From this perspective, I wonder if we do not have reading days because the faculty is worried they will be “abused?” Are Davidson students so slack that they cannot be trusted to use free time before exams productively?

To get to the heart of the issue, let me assert my own justifications of the need for reading days. I believe the faculty and administration have neglected their significance. Obviously, the reading period gives students the occasion to make ends meet, so to speak, in a course. You can hardly feel like you’ve had a chance to wrap up a course when you only have one or two free nights to review for its final exam. Davidson compacts the regular semester course workload into its ten-week schedule creating quite a concentrated course coverage for the student. Retention of this kind of concentrated course coverage for the student without any allotted time for review is a joke. Davidson's academic schedule promotes the ludicrous process of students cramming in information and then immediately spitting it back out. No doubt, ten weeks’ worth of all a course has to offer becomes the typical two weeks following the exams, “Oh! I can’t remember...”

In having no reading days, as with this term, or just one reading day, as with the preceding terms, the school defeats its academic purpose. Ten weeks' worth of material is not going to have a chance to come together for the student if he or she only has a night or so to study for the exam. The last-minute pressure to wrap up a course before the exam is unnecessary. I just don’t see what the rush is. The school is kidding itself, of course, to think that students have time to start studying for their exams a week or so ahead of time. That is precisely the time when courses are galloping up to their finishing line. Students ought to be at ease to review and recollect the material covered in their courses — to get a perspective on the details and the “whole” they create. I don’t think Davidson College is economizing time in any way by cutting out reading days. The schedule provides no realistic or reasonable transition between the end of classes and the beginning of exams. Reading days provide a necessary academic transition.

Surely the administration and faculty should endorse a smoother transition between the end of classes and the start of exams. By neglecting reading days, they aggravate an already rigorous trimester schedule. Students end up taking exams under a time pressure which forces them to “compromise” their course review and go into exams feeling under-prepared. There is no reason why students should not go into exams feeling completely prepared and rested unless they are just not given enough time as is the case at hand. Thus the schedule seems to work against students in the sense that I do not believe it allows us to be, in an academic sense, the best that we can be or to achieve the best we can achieve.

Perhaps the problem is that the faculty perceives the reading day period as a luxury, which they fear that Davidson students would abuse, rather than an academic necessity, which would be to the students’ advantage in general. Of course, I mean “abused” in the sense that the reading days would provide free time for partying, vacationing, sunbathing, ... anything but studying. Granted there are students at Princeton University who use their reading period time to cruise in the Caribbean or to raise hell on campus. But does the possibility of this kind of “abuse” negate the purpose of the reading period? Should students concerned with having time to review for their exams not get that time because other students might “abuse” it as such? This matter seems completely unjustified to me. The logic of reading days exists in themselves. How students care to use them is the students’ issue and a choice that should justly be made available. On the other hand, if students don’t perceive them as a necessity, that closes the issue. But I know of very few students who wouldn't appreciate the opportunity to at least take a breath before plunging into exams.

The administration and faculty should respect the students’ academic welfare enough to provide reading days if they are so interested in maintaining Davidson’s image as “an institution of higher academic learning and pursuit.” Reading days are no farce and are definitely well regarded as a necessity in the Ivy League schools, some of which extend their reading periods up to two weeks before starting exams. Such schools are concerned with allowing students a chance to get organized and become confident in mastering course material before exams. So how is Davidson justified in underrating the need for a reading period? I think it is not.I certainly do not mean to endorse a similar two-week period for exam review at Davidson because there is obviously no need for that much free time. I do suggest the administration and faculty should respect the students’ academic welfare enough to provide reading days if they are so interested in maintaining Davidson’s image as “an institution of higher academic learning and pursuit”—either a reading period of three to four days or perhaps, better yet, a self-scheduled exam period of seven to ten days so that those who need reading days can have them while those who don’t can leave. I am truly sorry that in approaching our final set of exams this year, we students don’t have time on our side but are caught up in a rush to complete the term’s work before summer. I perceive our rush as not only unpleasant but also as an intellectual detriment. I urge the administration and faculty to reassess the value of reading days in the students’ schedule and to reconsider including them in future schedules. In continuing to use the trimester system, let’s not allow the students’ academic welfare to suffer by imposing schedules that rush students in and out of terms, economizing time where the time provided is already scarce enough.

Just Words
Tim Brown

Doctors, bar owners, businessmen, and others are stifled by sky-high damage suits, as you dear readers are probably aware of by now. But somehow a bar owner, a friend of mine, allowed me to get a better feel for the picture when he told me that if even one person brought a damage suit out against him, his insurance premium would go up drastically and so would the price of his porter—up to $8.00 a glass. And upon hearing this I just about spilled my glass of stout, which had cost me all of a buck-twenty-five. Really, it's no wonder doctors are packing their bags and leaving their practices, now that malpractice claims have more than doubled over the last ten years and insurance premiums have risen sometimes 1,000 percent or more at a clip. Half of the obstetricians practicing in Montrose, Colorado, packed up and left when insurance rates started to soar. Many obstetricians in New York, 16 percent of whose gross income went for insurance, are calling it quits. Doctors have gone as far as to set up the computerized service Physicians’ Alert to help them identify patients who have filed malpractice suits before. One can understand better the need for such a service after listening to Don Stewart, a Syracuse neurosurgeon, recall a 16-year-old boy who remarked to his father during a check-up, “Think how much money you'd get if he screws up.” And it’s ironic that improvements in health care, brought on by advanced technology, bring on more lawsuits. Infants with severe brain damage, who would have died three years ago, now live, and their parents now sue the doctors to cover medical expenses.

Aided by the campaign against drunk driving, personal-injury cases against bars and restaurants have shot up 300 percent in the last year. Thirty-five states now have laws holding liquor purveyors liable for the injuries their patrons inflict and incur. The Michigan Supreme Court even found a bar responsible for a patron’s death in a car crash. Such legislation manages to deny and avoid some iffy and sticky situations: A patron goes a few rounds at a bar without getting intoxicated, goes out into his truck and downs two sixes of Lowenbrau and becomes intoxicated, and then goes out and hits a pedestrian; A patron drinks at three different bars and becomes intoxicated, and is history after running his motorcycle into a telephone pole; Or, a good-ole boy gets sauced, is involved in a serious accident, and claims he got the way he is at a bar which he—in fact—never really went to. Legal scholars warn that what may seem far-fetched now, may be accepted as routine later. An exercise-mat manufacturer is sued for $14.7 million by a seriously injured California gymnast. A peanut-butter maker is sued by a mother whose baby choked on Peter Pan and who argues that the peanut-butter maker should have warned of the danger to infants (as should the makers of rock candy?). Hostess Cupcakes is sued by a tree trimmer who charges its products have given him what he calls “toxic-junk” syndrome. Hmmm. Glen Ward of Ohio skates around his Thundering Wheels Skating Arena “bare” to demonstrate that his insurance company would cover him no longer. Employees injured at work are no longer satisfied with worker compensation. They believe machines should last forever, and sue the makers of the equipment involved in the accident, causing some to wonder and joke if liability suits might prove better than unemployment compensation at redistributing income.

And has it come to this: That one need beware of damage suits even in one’s own neighborhood. Helen Harris almost lost all her insurance coverage after her insurance company heard, through the grapevine, that her dog had bit a neighbor (nothing serious). For 12 years Morris and Rosalyn Friedman went through a nightmare of lawsuits, which started one summer day when their children invited nine-year-old Sylvia Ashwal to play on the swing set. Sylvia broke her leg while standing up on a swing (a no-no). And years later, after Sylvia's previously fractured leg stopped growing, her parents sued the Friedmans. The Friedmans, thank goodness, got out of paying the $2.5 million lawsuit. Unfortunately, the swing-set manufacturer, Turco, and Sears Roebuck did not. But rest assured this summer: If things continue as they are, legislators and judges will soon grow tired of having to go out and tighten down every bolt on the Jungle-Gym set before letting the neighbor’s kids come over to play, and will start putting forth legislation and decisions with good sense and more careful thought.

Brown is a sophomore from Mint Hill, NC and is Opinions Editor of The Davidsonian.