Friday, October 24, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Rusk speaker stresses Chinese language as culture
By AARON LEVINE

Dr. Mao Miu Chu of the University of Nanjing in China spoke in the Morrison Room Monday at 4:30. She
is an expert on Chinese culture and literature. Beginning her often humorous talk with the Dean Rusk Program brochure, Chu
mentioned how she particularly liked the stipulation of “first-hand knowledge of a foreign culture through language proficiency” mentioned in the
brochure. Chu maintained: “If you want to know a foreign culture, you need to know the language.”

With her talk entitled “The Importance of Chinese Culture,” Chu, presently a Fulbright scholar at the University of North Carolina
at Asheville, mentioned the importance of knowing the Chinese language in attempting to understand Chinese culture. She mentioned an old
Chinese phrase, “follow the mass:” Chinese is spoken by one billion people, and with the increasing importance of China on
the world political and economic scene it is becoming important to understand Chinese. Not knowing Chinese could hurt, Chu mentioned;
few Americans doing business in China know Chinese.

Chu spent the greater part of her talk in refuting common objections to the learning of Chinese. The first being
that it is difficult to learn, a recent Chinese dictionary lists 47,000 characters. Yet a recent Chinese Language Reform Committee
found 7,000 characters in general use, 2,000 characters make up 90% of the everyday language, and knowing 700-800 characters is
sufficient for beginners. With 2,000 characters, one can pretty much get around with the aid of a dictionary. Another complaint
is that each character entails too many strokes. Recently the characters have been simplified for easier learning, in an effort
to help wipe out illiteracy in China. Also, many Chinese characters entail a “radical” which indicates the general category of
the word, and thus makes figuring out the word easier. Chu also mentioned the “pinyin” system of Chinese, which uses
a romanized alphabet and also the four different tonal qualities. Finally, she maintained that the best way to learn the
language, or any language for that matter, is through one step at a time.

Coed dining alive but threatened
By DAVID WILLIAMS

While membership in co-ed eating houses has declined over the past four years and student interest in fraternities and all-women's
eating houses has grown markedly, leaders of both Emanon and PAX say that co-ed eating on Patterson Court is “thriving.”

“It’s not the end of an era,” PAX President junior Holly Sparks said. “It seems that the trend is toward
single-sex dining, but I think there will always be people who choose to eat in a co-ed setting on Patterson
Court, because it’s unlike anything the college offers." Sparks said that while only 110 Davidson students participate in co-ed eating
houses, “the people that are doing it enjoy it immensely. They’re very positive about their experiences. This is the choice
that co-ed people have made."

Both PAX and Emanon are making strong efforts to encourage freshmen to join their houses. Yet while PAX already has
a relatively strong membership of 65 men and women, Emanon faces a formidable challenge to increase its current membership of
40 students. But Emanon President senior Chris Sullivan said that the house is currently in excellent financial condition. “As I
see it now, the house can survive indefinitely,” he said. Sullivan said Emanon usually gains about 15 members between fall
and winter terms. “Emanon has always gotten a lot of transfers or people who are dissatisfied with the houses they
eat in, who come to Emanon in the middle of the year,” he said.

Still, Sullivan noted that recruitment of freshmen this year “is a definite area of improvement.” He said: “In the past
we haven't handled self-selection as well as we could have. This year, we have been making a conscious effort to
let ourselves be known on Patterson Court and to the freshmen especially.” For the first time in three years Emanon
members Monday placed a sign with the house's name on the front of Emanon. Emanon Vice President Mark Swift said,
“The idea of putting the name up there is that we're trying our best to let people know that we’re
here, and that we want people to come by and get to know us. I think it’s the attitude of
the house in trying to renew itself and show theRest of the campus that we are trying our best to
be here and attract people so we can stay on the court.” When the Vail Commons opened in September 1981,
Davidson students were given the option to continue eating in the Commons after their freshman year rather than join a
Patterson Court fraternity, all-women's eating house, or co-ed eating house. Within two years, co-ed eating houses ETC and ATO folded
because of a decline in membership. Soon afterwards, in the spring of 1985, members of co-ed eating house Fannie and
Mable decided to close their house for similar reasons. At the time of ETC's closing, ETC President Laura McDonald '85
cited the arrival of the Commons and of additional women’s eating houses as the major factor contributing to ETC's demise.
But Sparks observed that co-ed eating houses and other Patterson Court houses offer “much more" to the student than does
the Commons. “If you eat in the Commons, obviously you're eating with a mixture of male and female students like
you are at a co-ed house, but there are not the same 60 people at dinner all the time," Sparks
said. “The hours in the Commons are more flexible than they can be at an eating house, but the Commons
doesn’t really offer the social life that a co-ed house or any Patterson Court house does.”

Both PAX and Emanon were originally formed in the early 1970s, after the College's Student Life Committee recommended a major
transformation in Davidson's social system. According to a 1970 Davidsonian article, the Committee recommended the selective fraternity system be transformed
“into a system of eating clubs, non-exclusive in nature, which would serve as the basic social units for students after
the freshman year.” This system soon came to be known as “self-selection.” By the spring of 1972, six fraternities had
left the campus and two fraternities had moved to houses off campus because their national chapters would not allow them
to participate in self-selection. Meanwhile, ATO, PAX, F & M, Emanon, and Random House were formed as non-selective eating houses.
(Random House folded during the following year.) When the college began admitting women, each of these houses became a co-ed
eating house.

Assistant Director of College Relations Bill Giduz '74, who was a founding member of Emanon, said that when the selective
fraternity system was abolished, “it was a time of serious activism.” He said: “Students were dead-set against fraternities.” Giduz said
that during the same months when he and a group of freshmen were working on forming Emanon, “Students had a
big march on Washington. Somebody threw a smoke-bomb in the ROTC department. There were four students who conducted a three-day
fast for peace. So there was just lots of protest about lots of things.” Giduz added: “The dissolution of the
previous social system was all a part of that. Folks felt we were breaking up the cliques and doing away
with the evils of the fraternity system that had existed. It was just a step toward the light, away from
the dark.” Giduz said, “The system just didn't live. The students have repudiated the system that was installed during my
time. It’s not a system for the eighties. Apparently, it was just a system for the seventies.”

Yet while Patterson Court fraternities have increased their selectivity since 1972, two co-ed houses and three women’s houses still remain
under the self-selection system as it was originally intended. As Sullivan noted, Emanon members are “proud of our house. We
want to tell Davidson students to come on down and see what it’s like, and maybe you'll find out that
it’s for you. That’s what self-selection is all about.”

In November 1973, Cliff Shaw was stricken with cancer. Fortunately, with surgery, Cliff was able to continue living a healthy,
active life. There was a time when such a diagnosis was virtually hopeless. But today, cancer is being beaten. Over
the years, we've spent $500,000,000 in research. And we've made great strides against many forms of cancer. With early detection
and treatment, the survival rate for colon and rectal cancer can be as high as 75%. Hodgkin's disease, as high
as 74%. Breast cancer, as high as 90%. Today, one out of two people who get cancer gets well. It
is a whole new ball game.

AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY
Help us keep winning.
