Opinions
The Davidsonian
Friday, October 31, 1986

Take a look at the candidates and the issues

Democratic

Many students at Davidson are relatively unfamiliar with American politics, particularly in Mecklenburg County. The current 9th District congressional campaign,
however, deserves closer attention. The race revolves around the question of which candidate will deal realistically with the problems facing
our country. Mr. Martin is that candidate. He has outlined six legislative proposals for introduction during the next session of
Congress. These proposals deal specifically with problems ranging from radioactive waste disposal to welfare reform. The editors of the Charlotte
Observer have endorsed Mr. Martin, praising his “issue-oriented approach to campaigning.” The editors add that “if his campaign is successful,
it will set a precedent for future candidates.”

In contrast, Mr. McMillan has sponsored only one bill, two months before the end of his first congressional term. Yet,
he has claimed credit for our country’s recent economic growth, “the strongest economic recovery since the Depression.” Mr. McMillan fails
to acknowledge, however, from what our country was recovering. The first years of Reaganomics witnessed the worst economic depression since
the Great Depression. Since then, the economy has rebounded vigorously. Unfortunately, this recovery has drawn much of its strength from
record federal deficits and an influx of foreign capital. As the national debt rises, our country is mortgaging away more
and more of its future. Mr. McMillan claims credit for this recovery, an economic success story written with smoke and
mirrors. He was elected, however, after Reaganomics was largely in place. If anything, he was elected because of the economic
“success” of 1984. How can Mr. McMillan claim credit when he wasn’t yet in office?

Mr. Martin understands the underlying problems in our economic recovery. He also possesses the political courage to deal with these
problems and to apply the fiscal restraint necessary for winning back our country’s economic future. The editors of the Charlotte
Observer describe Mr. Martin as “a good man who, we’re convinced, would be an outstanding congressman, transcending such labels as
‘liberal’ and ‘conservative’ in search for urgently needed new directions, particularly in fiscal and domestic policy.” In other words, “This
time, D.G.”

Submitted by Ted Davis and Bill Young, Davidson College Democrats

Republican

Caryn Coppedge

On November 4th, the constituents of the Ninth district of North Carolina will choose their Representative to the 100th Congress.
They will choose to send the Republican incumbent, Alex McMillan or his Democratic challenger D.G. Martin. Although I claim no
special understanding of the issues or unique interpretation of the stances of the candidates, I do believe I am in
a position to comment on Alex McMillan and the job that he does for the 9th District in Washington. I
interned with Congressman McMillan for eight weeks this summer and feel this experience allows me an understanding of his attitudes
and approaches.

First, let me say that I originally approached my job with much of the cynicism that is indigenous to Washington.
Let me also say that this perspective has changed. I have learned that the quality of work done in Congress
varies with the intent of the Member. Admittedly, there is the potential to produce the kind of work that mandates
questions as to the validity and integrity of those who comprise “The Hill.” Conversely, there is the potential to work
consistently and conscientiously for both constituents and their concerns. The latter is the type of work that Alex McMillan is
doing for his district.

If I can point to one moment when my opinion began to change, it would be the first legislative meeting
that I attended. The Congressman had come back early from a recess to work on The Housing Bill. I fully
expected the meeting to be a briefing; I expected the staff to update the Congressman on the issue and perhaps
even suggest how he might vote. In fact, the Congressman was more fully appraised of the issue, its inconsistencies, and
its contradictions than was his staff. He was unwilling to settle for conceptual answers to his specific questions. He focused
in on the practical and tangible results of the bill and its amendments, forcing his staff to speculate on the
actual impact of the bill on a variety of 9th district residents. McMillan’s dedication, I might add, has motivated this
same staff to volunteer many extra hours; hours that benefit the 9th District. Their commitment and competency has in turn
given them the reputation for being one of the most effective offices on the Hill.

In conclusion, I can say that I was extremely impressed by Alex McMillan’s cogitative sensitivity for both his constituents’ concerns
and the complexities of his job. I urge all residents of the 9th Congressional District to consider the issues and
the candidates carefully as they choose their Representative to the 100th Congress.

Coppedge is a junior from Potomac, MD, and is a member of the College Republicans.

Just Words

Lord of the Flies passes on secrets of his art

Tim Brown

As she skips her way through Wonderland, Alice bumps into Tweedledum and Tweedledee. Tweedledum and Tweedledee are indistinguishable, except for
their embroidered collars. Tweedledum has “Dum” embroidered on his collar, and Tweedledee has “Dee” embroidered on his collar. Alice patiently
inspects the twosome until she discerns their distinctive, heavily-starched collars. Unlike Alice, many inexperienced fishermen and many landlubbers grow impatient
when they stare at ob- make the right fly for a particular fish, one needs to investigate exhaustively the nature
of the fish and the area in which it swims. “If you do your own investigating, you're not only goingTo
have a deeper understanding of what you are doing, but you'll have a greater appreciation for the environment in which
you are fishing.” Amen, Amen.

The Lord of the Flies: Andre Puyans consistently arrives 45 minutes late to his fly-tying class. His pupils — who
have included millionaires from Japan and government officials from Argentina — do not mind. For them, the knowledge Andre Puyans
has to share is worth the wait. In fact, the progress each one of the pupils will make during a
week-long session of Puyans’s fly-tying classes is worth approximately seven years of untutored practice.

A dim light hangs over Puyans’s workbench, which is covered with hundreds of fibers of hair and hundreds of feathers
from animals. Dyed goose tail, mallard duck quill, mink tail, body feathers from lemon woodducks, red squirrel tail, feathers from
an African wild turkey that has been extinct for several decades, and neck feathers from chickens that are raised in
Pennsylvania to specifically meet fly-tiers’ needs. Puyans moves his nimble fingers through these hair fibers and feathers until he finds
his pipe and his coffee mug, which is filled to the rim with Brim and Scotch. Forty-five minutes behind schedule,
then, the first day of class begins.

Puyans goes over the Four Commandments with the class. Then, since it is only the first day of class, he
briefly describes the five main groups of flies. Dry flies imitate insects floating on the water’s surface. Wet flies resemble
drowned insects that are sinking. Nymphs imitate mayflies, which hatch and spawn below the surface of the water. Streamers and
bucktails imitate baitfish. Terrestrials resemble ants and grasshoppers. To perfectly end the first day of class, Puyans has the pupils
gather around his workbench to observe him tying a perfect dry fly. Right as he is about to begin, his
face becomes contorted. Puyans pulls his pipe from his mouth, grabs his handkerchief, and sneezes two or three times. Puyans
chuckles warmly and explains that he is allergic to feathers and fur, the raw materials of his trade.

The first day of class ends. A half-dozen students who are studying to become professional fly-tiers stay after class because
they want Puyans to explain how he got started in the fly-tying business. Again, Puyans chuckles warmly. He knows that
his success story is one that very few folks are able and willing to emulate. At the age of nine,
he contracted polio. His father, Percy Puyans, knew that Andre loved to fish. So he gave Andre fly-tying equipment and
offered him this proposition: How would you like to earn some spending money by making 144 dozen Governor Paine Boost
Maine Special flies? The nine-year-old capitalist blindly jumped at this chance. One-hundred-and-forty-four dozen flies later, Andre asked his father, Percy,
what kinds of special fish his special flies were used to catch. Percy explained that Governor Paine was not going
to use the flies for fly fishing. Governor Paine was going to use the flies as campaign buttons to lure
and catch undecided voters.

So ever since he was nine years old, Andre Puyans has patiently put up with inexperienced fishermen and landlubbers who
are unable to appreciate his fly-tying and fly fishing. And though Andre Puyans is consistently 45 minutes late for church
on Sundays, he probably often reads with pride the introductory paragraph of Maclean’s book "A River Runs Through It." Norman
Maclean writes: “Our father was a Presbyterian minister and a fly fisherman who tied flies and taught others. He told
us about Christ’s disciples being fishermen, and we were left to assume, as my brother and I did, that all
first-rate fishermen of the Sea of Galilee were fly fishermen and that John, the favorite, was a dry-fly fisherman.” Which
reminds me of a beatitude: Blessed are the fly-tiers and fly fishermen whose deeds go unappreciated, for they shall be
comforted.

— Brown is Opinions editor of The Davidsonian
