Friday, January 10, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Apocalypse Now examines Heart of Darkness in Vietnam

By MIKE STEPHENS

Opening with scenes of the Vietnamese jungle and the haunting sounds of Jim Morrison’s strained tenor voice, Francis Ford Coppola’s
“Apocalypse Now” takes its viewers on a trip up-river into what Joseph Conrad called the “Heart of Darkness.” Coppola takes
John Milius’ screenplay retelling Conrad’s Heart of Darkness, a tale of greed and megalomania in the depths of colonial Africa,
and presents it in the context of the Vietnam War.

Willard, brilliantly portrayed by Martin Sheen, receives strictly confidential orders from military headquarters in Saigon. They instruct him to “terminate
the command” of Col. Kurtz, who has illegally entered Cambodia. If any resistance is offered, he is to “terminate the
Colonel.” The Saigon military command, over a rich dinner of shrimp and roast beef, informs Willard that Kurtz, once a
fine officer, has gone insane.

To one familiar with Heart of Darkness, the plot of “Apocalypse Now” offers no surprises. The strength of the movie
lies in the way Coppola presents the advance of a boat-load of reasonably believable characters into the insanity of the
Vietnam war. Willard boards a small military craft headed toward Cambodia. That the captain of the vessel, fiercely protective of
his men and his boat, dislikes and distrusts Willard, sets up one of the major conflicts of the movie.

The other servicemen on the boat, mostly young draftees, seem misplaced in the frenzied jungle. Lance, a former surfing pro
from California, plays an increasingly important role as the movie progresses. Coppola presents the various individuals commanding authority in the
war as caricatures of reality. Robert Duvall, leading an Air Mobile squadron of helicopters, becomes one of the most memorable
characters. He begins his attacks by playing Wagner’s “Ride of the Valkyries” from large speakers mounted beneath the helicopters. After
destroying a heavily fortified beach-front encampment primarily because the area had good peaks for surfing, Duvall utters the now famous
line, “I love the smell of napalm in the morning... it smells like victory.”

After a series of stops along the river, involving everything from a showcasing of playboy bunnies to a rather large
tiger, Willard finally enters Cambodia. Signs of death, almost synonymous with Kurtz, are everywhere. Upon reaching his jungle “kingdom,” Willard
finally meets Kurtz, played by a grossly obese and overpaid Marlon Brando.

The movie does not have the same sharp ending as Conrad’s Heart of Darkness. Several loose ends are left unresolved,
but purposely so. Coppola did not intend his production to be tidy.

“Apocalypse Now” is not an easy movie to watch. It is long and draining, but probably worth the effort. Martin
Sheen does an excellent job, becoming the single thread of sanity running throughout the film. Robert Duvall’s performance alone merits
the entrance price. Much in the way “A Clockwork Orange” sifts the contents of its viewers’ minds, “Apocalypse Now” asks
its viewers to define sanity in a world where restraint has no place.

A GOOD OPPORTUNITY FOR YOU
To Enjoy Famous SERO Shirts At A Good Savings

Shirts In Easy Care
And Some All Cotton
Reg. $27 to $31

NOW
19%
To
24”
For A Limited Time

Downtown Mooresville
Quality and Fashion Apparel
For Men and Women

664-4711

Depository Libraries...

Your Source

Government Information

Information from the Federal Government—on subjects ranging from agriculture to zoology—is available at more than 1,380 Depository Libraries throughout the
United States.

The Federal Depository Library Program

Foods related to lowering the risk of cancer of the larynx and esophagus all have high amounts of carotene, a
form of Vitamin A which is in cantaloupes, peaches, broccoli, spinach, all dark green leafy vegetables, sweet potatoes, carrots, pumpkin,
winter squash and tomatoes, citrus fruits and brussels sprouts.

Foods that may help reduce the risk of gastrointestinal and respiratory tract cancer are cabbage, broccoli, brussels sprouts, kohlrabi, and
cauliflower.

A defense against cancer can be cooked up in your kitchen.

There is evidence that diet and cancer are related. Some foods may promote cancer, while others may protect you from
it.

Fruits, vegetables, and whole-grain cereals such as oatmeal, bran, and wheat may help lower the risk of colorectal cancer.

Foods high in fats, salt- or nitrite-cured foods like ham, and fish and types of sausages smoked by traditional methods
should be eaten in moderation. Be moderate in consumption of alcohol also. A good rule of thumb is cut down
on fat and don't be fat. Weight reduction may lower cancer risk. A 12-year study of nearly a million Americans
uncovered high cancer risks particularly among people 40% or more overweight.

Now, more than ever, we know you can cook up your own defense against cancer.

No one faces cancer alone.

AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY
