The Davidsonian
Friday, October 10, 1986

Football team assaulted by Mountaineers, 63-6
By MIKE ADAMS

In what sophomore receiver Mike Gross called “a long day at the office,” the Appalachian State football team rolled over Davidson, 63-6 at Boone last Saturday. As the score suggests, Appalachian totally dominated the game. The Mountaineers had 33 first downs to the Wildcats’ 11. They piled up 596 total yards while Davidson could manage only 159 yards. The only statistical category in which the Cats led was time of possession. Davidson led here basically because it just didn’t take Appalachian long to score once they got the ball. And score they did. On 15 possessions, the Mountaineers were able to produce nine drives that ended in touchdowns, one that ended in a field goal, and only three that ended in punts. The other two drives ended as time expired in each half.

The strength of the Appalachian attack was its running game. Three Mountaineer running backs gained over 100 yards. John Settle, the leading rusher in the Southern Conference last year, led the way with 183 yards and five touchdowns on just 23 carries.

Despite the lopsided final score, Davidson played well in the opening quarter. They allowed a touchdown on Appalachian’s first possession but prevented any other Mountaineer scores, and the quarter ended with the Cats losing only 7-0. The floodgates opened in the second quarter, though. Appalachian scored three times in just over six minutes to open a 26-0 lead (two extra point attempts were unsuccessful). Settle ran for the score on all of the Mountaineers’ first four touchdowns.

Up to this point, the Cats were able to generate almost no offense. They had lousy field position and were forced to punt on their first six possessions. They notched only five first downs in their first six drives. The Wildcat defense stiffened after the Mountaineers opened their 26-0 lead, however, and forced a punt on the next Appalachian drive. The Mountaineer punter boomed a 48-yard kick, but the Cats tried a little razzle-dazzle with sophomore Bryan Overcash handing off on a reverse to junior Aaron Edwards, who returned the ball 28 yards to the Appalachian 43-yard line.

Freshman quarterback Peter Hughes, who replaced senior starter Steve Bradley early in the second quarter, proved able to move the Cats when given more breathing room. Hughes opened the drive with a 19-yard completion to Overcash across the middle. A one-yard run and an incomplete pass brought the Cats to third and nine. Davidson then pulled something else out of its bag of tricks, running Gross on an end-around for a 21-yard gain to the seven-yard line. Appalachian picked up an interference penalty to give the Cats a first down at the Mountaineer two, and after a pass for no gain to Edwards, Hughes ran it in for the touchdown to make the score 26-6 after the two-point conversion attempt failed. This touchdown turned out to be the only score for Davidson.

Rejuvenated offense
By PERRY MATHEWES

The soccer team split a pair of games this week to bring its record to 3-8-1. A 3-2 win at Georgia State on Saturday was followed by a 6-1 loss to Erskine on Monday. Davidson opened the scoring against Georgia State when sophomore midfielder Tracy Hankins put the ball in the right-hand side of the penalty box. Sophomore forward Mike Friedlander and junior midfielder Steve Ott were credited with the assists. Georgia State then responded with two goals in the first half to take a 2-1 lead. Davidson equalized before the half on a corner kick. Hankins, taking the corner, sent the ball out to senior forward Brian Shockley just outside the penalty box. Shockley promptly fired at the goal. Friedlander, standing at the six-yard box, misdirected the shot into the opposite side of the goal.

Women’s volleyball hits dry spell
By SUSAN WILKINS

The women’s volleyball team is going through a dry spell. One this week of competition with three losses and no wins. The team started off the week with a double match against High Point and Lenoir-Rhyne at High Point. Their first game was against Lenoir-Rhyne, a team they had lost to before, but thatto be the only real bright spot in what was a very long afternoon for the Cats. Appalachian scored once more in the first half and went on to notch four more touchdowns and one field goal in the second. Davidson failed to make any real offensive threats after their first-half score. So Davidson will be at home for the next two weeks. They play Bucknell on Saturday and Lafayette in the Homecoming game the next week. These teams should be a little more on Davidson’s level.

Davidson dominated the game, outshooting State 12-8. They also had four one-on-one chances where they failed to score. They played well despite a fullback, Chris Jones, receiving a red card for unsportsmanlike conduct and being ejected from the game. This left Davidson a man down with over 65 minutes left to play. “I have no complaint with the call, the referee was in his rights,” coach Charlie Slagle said. The talented Erskine team scored three more times. Davidson next takes on Furman here tomorrow at 11:30. They then travel to N.C. State on Wednesday. State is presently ranked seventh in the nation. The Furman game is a very important game for the team.

The halftime score was 2-2. Hankins scored the winning goal in the second half. A pass from freshman forward Jim Walker beat a defender to get to Friedlander, who took the ball to the endline and beat the goalie. He dropped the ball back to the trailing Hankins, who put the ball in the net despite the attempts of a defender to hold him back.

The Cats led the first game and looked to beat Lenoir-Rhyne. However, Lenoir-Rhyne won 15-12. In the second game, the Wildcats could not regain their spirit and lost quickly 15-4. Coach Sue Hayes thought Davidson could beat Lenoir-Rhyne, but they ended up losing the match 15-1, 15-0. The Wildcats were at home against Furman University on Wednesday night. Unfortunately for Davidson, one of the team’s best setters, Kathy McDonald, was unable to play due to a pinched nerve and overall exhaustion. Freshman Sarah Johnson was also unable to play due to an ankle injury.

In a best-of-five match, the Cats stayed close in only one game. In the first game of the series, Davidson passed fairly well and managed to hang in the game, despite losing 15-6. Furman dominated in the other games, mainly due to good communication; they won the second two games 15-1 and 15-0. Hayes says that the Cats are playing with more of a desire to win than they have been, but have yet to develop a killer instinct. She thinks that most of the girls are improving individually, but the team as a unit is young. In practice, Davidson is working on passing and calling the ball; hopefully, these skills will improve enough so that the Cats have a fighting chance in next week's matches.

The Erskine game did not go quite as well. Erskine took an early lead, but Davidson equalized in the 18th minute on a penalty kick by junior fullback Michael Spear. The situation changed drastically just minutes later. Senior Chris Jones received a red card for unsportsmanlike conduct and was ejected from the game. This left Davidson a man down with over 65 minutes left to play. With three minutes left in the half, Erskine took advantage of their extra man and scored two quick goals. This left the Cats demoralized at the half. The second half did not get any better for Davidson as the talented Erskine team scored three more times.

Davidson is 1-1 in the conference while Furman is 2-0. “We’re still in the conference race but the only chance we have is to beat Furman,” Slagle said. “We've got the talent to play with them. A lot depends on how we come in mentally.”