Friday, September 26, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Soccer looks for answers to losing skid
By PERRY MATHEWES

The Davidson soccer team lost both of their games this week to drop their record to 1-7-1. They lost 2-0
to William and Mary last Saturday, then Appalachian State nipped them 1-0 in Boone Wednesday night.

The William and Mary game started poorly for the Wildcats. The team played with “no intensity for the first 15
minutes and the last 15 minutes of the first half,” coach Charlie Slagle said. Unfortunately, the William and Mary goals
both came in those last 15 minutes of the first half. In the second half, Davidson played much better, holding
their own against the Tribe. The improved play, however, came too late for the Wildcats to make a comeback.

The Appalachian State game was much more frustrating for the Cats. The Mountaineers scored in the fourth minute on a
25-yard shot that dipped under the crossbar. The Davidson squad spent the rest of the game in a futile attempt
to equalize. Davidson had several good opportunities throughout the game. Sophomore midfielder Tracy Hankins had a header that narrowly missed
the goal. Sophomore forward Mike Friedlander and junior midfielder Steve Ott also had good chances. The most dangerous action came
from freshman midfielder Rob Vest, who put the ball between the goalkeeper's legs only to have a defender clear it
off the line.

Although the team is playing fairly well, they just cannot win. Davidson has lost four matches by one goal. In
three of those games, they outshot their opponent, yet failed to produce goals. To make things worse, the team has
been held scoreless in the last four games. The lack of results had the players baffled, according to Slagle. “We're
playing better, but we’re just not winning and that’s frustrating,” junior goalkeeper Josh Budde said.

Part of the problem comes from a tough schedule. Playing nationally ranked teams every week is not an easy way
to get wins. Yet that does not explain all the losses. Injuries are also a problem. The Wildcats have lost
junior Andy Clarke for the season and senior fullback Sean Moser is not expected to return for at least two
more weeks. Junior midfielder Steve Omli and freshman Scott Poisson will miss action for several games as well.

The lack of results has the players frustrated. “The breaks just aren’t going our way,” Slagle said. “They now face
a test of mental fortitude.” The team travels to VMI Sunday, Sept. 28. They are hoping to turn things around
with a win but realize that the Keydets will be tough at home.

Robert Nesbit

Field hockey makes adjustments for future
By PAM HARMANN

Although the Davidson field hockey team now posts an 0-5 record, any casual observer can notice the marked improvement of
the team with each game. There has been increased pressure from the offense in the shooting circle and the defense
is beginning to mark better as well. However, the team still needs to work on midfield connections and move better
for passes. They have also been plagued with injuries and illnesses since pre-season days. Coach Betsy Pryor has yet to
have a complete starting line-up of her strongest players.

Last Friday, Davidson lost 1-0 to Salem College. Davidson dominated the first half, yet played up and down during the
second half. Unfortunately, they lacked scoring ability, whereas Salem has an excellent forward who scored an unassisted, picture-perfect goal. Davidson’s
defense lacked senior Polly Northen and seemed confused over defensive assignments.

The following morning, Davidson fell 5-0 to an excellent, highly skilled Eastern Kentucky University team. Davidson played well and moved
the ball much better than the day before, but once

IMAC news
By JILL BOYETTE

IMAC News: Sunday, Sept. 28, is the first day of the 1986 flickerball season. In order for this season to
run smoothly, IMAC (Intramural Athletic Council) will sponsor a weekly column which provides game highlights as well as regulations. This
week it is important that all team managers check the eligi-

Referee duties are essential. If you must ref a game, go to the equipment room (in the basement of theGym)
and pick up a ref bag. In these kits, you should check to make sure you have the following: two
whistles, a stopwatch that works (check to make sure), a pencil, a set of flickerball rules, scorecards, and two footballs
— one leather and one rubber. Please use the rubber balls in rainy weather (yes, games will be played if
it is drizzling). Next, you, the ref, go to the flickerball fields which are located behind the golf course and
the baseball field. Check the roster and see who is playing on each team. Once the game is over, report
the score and return the kit to the gym. We do not encourage leaving the kit for another team’s use.
Managers are responsible for providing competent referees. By the way, IMAC pays each ref $2 per game. If referees do
not show up, their team must forfeit their tournament eligibility. If the same team refs do not show twice, then
that team can no longer participate.

This week, IMAC voted to allow a freshman team to participate in flickerball even though they did not turn in
a roster in time. IMAC decided that since flickerball is an integral part of the freshman hall experience, they should
not be denied the opportunity. In the future, late rosters will not be accepted. IMAC is sponsoring a mixed doubles
tournament. Play will begin by next week but only those who are registered and who have paid the $4 fee
may play. There will be ample time for the tournament because we will not schedule specific game times. Instead, each
pairing will coordinate their games to meet the championship date. Contact Bob Sherrill or Mark Crowther for further details. Flickerball
schedules will be available this afternoon from 4-5:30 p.m. and all next week in the Athletic Office (just beyond the
pool in the gym). Check the bulletin board by the Comptroller's Office for more IMAC news.

All varsity players must have written or verbal permission from their varsity coaches in order to participate in flickerball. Permission
from the IMAC Office must be obtained for rescheduling games. Do not privately reschedule a game; it will be deemed
invalid without the proper permission. Only Sterling Martin, the assistant director of athletics, and Becky Irvin, the athletic office secretary,
can grant permission for rescheduling games.

EKU is probably the toughest team Davidson will have to face this season. During this game versus EKU, Davidson tried
a new formation figuring they had nothing to lose. Instead of setting up five forwards, three halfbacks, one upsweep, and
one backsweep, they switched to four forwards, three links, two halfbacks, and one sweep. Coach Pryor intends to use this
formation from now on because it is stronger defensively and there is more support all over the field.

On Monday, Davidson lost to Pfeiffer 3-0. This loss was especially disappointing due to a seeming lack of effort or
hustle. Having played three games in a row with no chance to practice further hampered the team’s effort. By Wednesday
at High Point, the team had shaped up and played much better. Although they lost 1-0, they played with a
new aggressiveness, passed better, and displayed more offensive pressure than ever. There was even an “almost goal.” Officially, the ball
was on, not over, the line, therefore no goal. However, the Davidson team, thinking they had scored, stopped playing to
celebrate, thus allowing the High Point defense to move the ball out.

With about fifteen minutes to go in the second half, freshman Marta Bukowski was injured by the dangerous high stick
of a High Point player. This obviously shook up the rest of the Davidson team. Bukowski will be unable to
play at least through Saturday when she has her stitches removed. The team travels to Catawba tomorrow for a 4
p.m. game.
