Friday, May 2, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN 19

Parents share memories of their son
Ted and Ruby Wen

Dear Faculty and Students:

We have thought of you often since the time of our son's memorial service at Davidson College. We were really
touched by your feelings toward our son Tim. It would be so good if we could hear from you and
get to know you. This means a great deal to us. Perhaps, in this way, our memory of Tim will
be a living one.

We would like to include here some portions from two letters that he wrote to his friend Ron Zeir, which
led to his decision to attend Davidson. The first letter is dated Dec. 23, 1983.

“As you know, I acquired this bothersome chemical hypersensitivity. It is an unbelievably frustrating ailment. There seems to be no
rhyme or reason behind it. Every time I seemed to get better, I would have a fresh turn to the
Lord, but then I would get worse again. Gradually, all the elements of the church life seemed to slip away.
When I had to tell the brothers I could no longer serve in children’s meetings, my heart nearly broke. Then
this past May, I found out that meeting halls themselves were ‘verboten.’ (By the way, I’m glad you decided to
stop complaining to the Lord about me. I have already done too much myself. I also found out just realizing
my situation was in His hands was not sufficient, at least for me. It just made me bitter toward Him.
I found out the secret is to thank Him! It really works!) Then on the other side, my education was
going nowhere. When I was feeling good, I would do very well at Harvey Mudd, yet I couldn't keep it
up. When I dropped out last March, I knew I had to do something. I couldn’t go to school, I
couldn’t hold a job, I couldn't have a normal church life — I was really cornered. However, I found out
I could get better if I went to a clean environment. Then hopefully my body’s tolerance could be recovered. Until
I arrived at Newport, I felt like a ball being bounced around. Do you know that since last March I
have stayed in 13 different places?

“Many times I literally lost my will to live. Yet every time when the psychological pressure became unbearable, the Lord
would come and say, ‘Do you love Me?’ and every time my heart would melt. The Lord is too real.
The four months I have been here, my health has slowly, ever so slowly, improved. This is the most encouraging
sign...

“About a month ago, I began to experience a real change in my relationship with the Lord. A lot of
small experiences I was having began to add up. The bitterness I had was swallowed up. Spiritually, I am coming
out of a hibernation. I think the Lord’s economy is clearer to me now than it has ever been. There
is no fixed way to experience the Lord. We all are experiencing the dispensation of God, yet in each of
our lives, our experience of the Lord is unique. My desire is to take care of the Lord at each
moment. Even when I am writing right now, I need to take care of the Lord. That is all that
He requires of me. I feel there are so many other requirements I need to meet, such as how to
become self-sufficient. Yet the Lord just wants me to love Him and to live Him. That's all. As Paul said
in Philippians, the Lord has gained us so that we might gain Him. Nothing more. Lord Jesus, grow in us.

“Most likely I will be leaving here in March. I will probably be attending a college in North Carolina...”

The second letter is not dated.

“I just finished my first term at Davidson. I don't know if I ever told you how I came here.
It was like most changes that have occurred in my life. It just sort of worked out that way. I
had made a list of feasible colleges to go to in terms of environment and costs. Davidson was the only
place...where I had the peace to apply. It was really strange. I just couldn't get myself to fill out any
more applications. So, in early March, I arrived at Davidson. I had no idea what to expect. I just landed
in a southern college immersed in the culture of the South. “Now that I look back, all I can truly
say is that this move was in God’s hand...”

We would like to inform you that Roger and Elsa Fiero, with whom Timmy has found a real home away
from home, are now residing in Davidson. We do hope that you would get to know them also. We are
also in the process of moving to Raleigh, North Carolina. If the Lord's willing, we will visit Davidson from time
to time. Hope we can be in contact with each other. We would like to thank you all so much
for coming to Tim's Memorial service and for sharing with us your experiences with him. We appreciated your cares, concerns,
and sympathy.

Ted and Ruby Wen

Committee attempts to create harmonious relationships among the court and campus. Drunkenness and hounding by anxious fraternities may be results
of the “democratic system,” but seven weeks of repression are not a justified solution. Davidson College should not turn to
unnecessary restrictions in its efforts to protect the freshman from social pressure. The fast pace of Fall term overwhelms many
students. By lessening the shock of college life, the Selection Committee wants to help the freshmen adjust. The “Option System”
attempts to reduce pressure to party and allow freshmen more time to grasp Davidson academics. Alienation, though, hinders adjustment. For
an individual to grow, he or she must face choices. Progress results from crises such as critical times of the
freshman year. If Davidson succeeds in “choosing students of character, of general as well as academic ability, [and] of loyalty
to the ideals of the college,” then the freshmen will survive their new independence (Davidson College Catalogue, 45).

The “home on the hall” plays an important role in the transition to college life. The Committee wisely considers the
unity of friends and counselors; however, confinement negates the free growth of friendship. One week of freshmen mixers is enough
to acquaint 360 ex-high school kids. They want to be members of the college. Other students sometimes view freshmen as
outsiders, and under the new system, upperclassmen must do so unwillingly. As pressured as parties can be, they are a
chance to integrate and meet people. Campus-wide parties do provide a neutral place for independents and court members to socialize.
Unfortunately, houses may pressure covert “rushing” at these few occasions. Squeezing “rush” into a six-week period after seven weeks of
“no trespassing” will force freshmen and houses to make their choice by reputation, rather than familiarity. Freshmen should be allowed
to freely experiment with their social life. They should retain their “liberty” to “frequent a place” and their “right to
do and think according to choice” (Random House Dictionary). Students’ freedom, but the proposed “Option System” oversteps its right to
interfere. Spencer House does not support any restrictions from parties, but a revision in the calendar would be more acceptable.
Three weeks of “no parties” for freshmen would alleviate enough academic pressure and aid adjustment to campus life. With some
sort of compromise and awareness of student opinion, the Patterson Court Selection Committee can devise a fair system. As the
Davidson College Statement of Purposes closes, “Only with divine guidance and through ceaseless effort can Davidson attain its goals and
be what it ought to be” — an institution of learning and liberty.

The Women of Spencer House

Large Assortment of 14 kt. Gold: chains, charms, bracelets, rings, & earrings
Exit 28 off I-77 Rt. 2, Hwy 73W
Norman Landing Shopping Plaza

SPRING GOLD SALE
Friday and Saturday
May 2 & 3 ONLY!!!
Just in Time for Mother’s Day and Graduation!
Presentation of this coupon worth 30% OFF!!!

Mother’s Day Special!!!
All purchases of colored stone, diamond, & pearl items thru Saturday, May 10, 1986

UNITED CAROLINA BANK
892-7805 Lake Norman

Fine Jewelry & Jewelry Repair
STUDENTS: 20% discount cards are available (Discount not applicable during sales)
Cornelius, N.C. 892-6278
Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 10 a.m.- 7 p.m.
Sat.: 10 a.m.- 6 p.m.
