4 a Beyond Davidson Friday, October 31, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Britain severs ties with Syria, asks for Soviet support

By DAVID WILLIAMS

Headlining the news for the week Oct. 24-30:

Around the World — Great Britain severed diplomatic relations with Syria, claiming that Syria had assisted Jordanian Nezar Hindawi in attempting to smuggle a bomb on board an Israeli jet at London’s Heathrow Airport last April. Hindawi was convicted in London Friday. In a show of support for Britain, the United States and Canada withdrew their ambassadors to Syria. The British government called on the Soviet Union, which has consistently been a Syrian ally, to reject state-supported terrorism publicly. Meanwhile, a French official said France and Syria are moving towards further agreements to prevent more terrorist bombings from occurring in France.

A Soviet expert said his government might have to publicly disclose minutes of the Reagan-Gorbachev meeting in Reykjavik to rebut President Reagan’s “disinformation campaign” following the meeting. U.S. Assistant Secretary for Defense Richard Perle said such a disclosure would be “an unprecedented violation” of diplomatic practice. The White House said it would continue to ask the Soviets to agree to drastic cuts in medium-range missiles despite Soviet opposition to S.D.I.

Newsweek reported that Israeli technician Mordechai Vanunu had sold secrets about Israel’s stockpile of 100 atomic bombs to The Sunday Times of London. Vanunu was later abducted by Israel’s Mossad secret police and brought back to Israel to face trial.

Fighting in Lebanon between Palestinians and Shiite Moslems spread to Beirut, as artillery and rocket duels broke out around Burj al Brajneh, the largest of three Palestinian centers in the area.

Spiritual leaders from 12 religions joined Pope John Paul II in Assisi, Italy, to participate in a “World Day of Prayer for Peace.” Guerrilla fighters in at least 11 nations temporarily laid down their weapons in response to the Pope’s call for a worldwide 24-hour truce.

Delegates to the International Red Cross conference in Geneva voted to suspend the South African government delegation in protest of apartheid. The South African government retaliated by expelling all Red Cross representatives from South Africa.

Philippines Defense Minister Juan Ponce Enrile continued to openly criticize President Corazon Aquino for her efforts to seek a negotiated peace settlement with the communist rebels and implied her government is tainted by corruption. American diplomats in Manila urged Enrile to halt his efforts to challenge Aquino’s leadership.

In other events — Ethiopian Foreign Minister Goshu Wolde resigned his post to protest his government's “short-sighted and rigidly doctrinaire policies” which he said “are leading the country and the people into misery and destruction.” Jeffrey Archer, who was deputy chairman of Britain’s Conservative party, resigned Sunday after a newspaper disclosed that Archer had made a payoff to a prostitute. The military governor of Spain’s Guipuzcoa province was killed Saturday when a bomb exploded on top of his car in Madrid. The Basque separatist movement ETA claimed responsibility. An Indian judge sentenced six men, including five former government officials, for spying for the United States. The U.S. government said it would contribute only $100 million to the budget of the United Nations this year.

Across the Nation — The National Academy of Sciences charged that the Reagan administration’s response to the AIDS epidemic has been dangerously inadequate and called for a $2 billion-a-year educational and research effort to confront the disease. The Federal Trade Commission issued regulations requiring health warnings on packages of snuff and chewing tobacco beginning next Feb. 27. General John T. Chain, commander of the Strategic Air Command, said he wants the U.S. to build 50 more long-range MX missiles and place them on trains that would travel the nation during times of international tension.

A House subcommittee report said federal agencies undertook a 30-year series of radiation-exposure experiments on human subjects, which included injecting humans with plutonium, radium, and uranium. The Federal Aviation Administration announced new rules to crack down on private pilots who violate restricted airspace over the nation’s 23 busiest airports. A federal judge in Greeneville, Tenn. ruled that parents in a county school district had the right to demand textbooks other than Macbeth, The Diary of Anne Frank, and The Wizard of Oz, because these books offend their fundamentalist religious beliefs.

In Business News — Saudi Arabian King Fahd removed Saudi Oil Minister Sheik Ahmed Yamani, who was the architect of the Arab nations’ campaign to control their oil resources. The Agriculture Department announced a $1.5 billion program to offer up to $2 a bushel for farmers not to grow corn, sorghum, barley, and oats next year. The U.S. government is expected to announce a substantial cut by as much as a full percentage point in the guaranteed 7.5 percent interest rate on United States savings bonds. The U.S. threatened to bar French and West German telecommunications industries from the American market if these countries refuse to allow AT&T to buy a telecommunications concern controlled by France.

Speaker highlights US/Soviet future

By MARK CHEN

Dr. Jerry Hough, described by Dr. Jack Perry (Rusk program director) as one of the leading scholars on the Soviet Union today, spoke in the 900 Room on Wednesday. By hanging tough, the U.S. will get an agreement which cuts nuclear stockpiles while leaving SDI alone. If you believe this argument, then the U.S. has a perfect position for getting everything it wants.

A graduate of Harvard, Hough is a professor at Duke University and a member of the Brookings Institute. He has written articles for Foreign Affairs and appeared on CBS and ABC. He discussed his own view of Soviet politics.For now and the future during his talk here. According to Hough, the short-term perspective on U.S./Soviet relations looks bad. The expulsions and limits on Soviet diplomats at the United Nations are bound to create problems with Gorbachev. In a tit-for-tat move, the Soviets have taken all their employees out of the American embassy in Moscow. The embassy is now short of cooks, servants, cleaning ladies, and even translators. As for arms control agreements, there will probably be no progress on those talks for the next six months. Hough blames much of this impasse on the Reagan administration. Too many American policymakers believe that the Soviets need an agreement on nuclear arms. Because of this need, the Soviets can be forced to “cave in” on the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI). But Hough argues that Gorbachev is better off with terrible U.S. relations. Gorbachev has already proved his toughness by arresting Daniloff and expelling American diplomats. What Gorbachev really needs are agreements which reduce the number of tanks, planes, and troops. They are the truly expensive military items which eat up the Soviet budget. Gorbachev is more likely to make an agreement on conventional arms with the Chinese and NATO than on nuclear arms with the U.S. Instead, Gorbachev can use the threat of SDI as a reason for economic reforms. The Soviet economy is in terrible shape and needs to be stimulated with less government control and more innovation. The Soviets have to innovate and change now before the Americans leave them behind in the technological arms race. The best feature of SDI is that the Soviets will not have to increase their military spending. SDI will probably be no danger to the Soviets for the next five to ten years. So Gorbachev can talk up the American “evil empire” as a reason for economic reforms, without having to sacrifice those reforms to a new arms buildup. Gorbachev has followed this policy, taking a very hard line against the U.S. For now, Gorbachev can be happy with no arms control deal at all. For the long-term, Hough sees a Soviet Union with a powerful, though weaker, Communist Party. Since all nations — democratic or dictatorial — seek to increase their influence and power, competition will continue between the U.S. and the Soviet Union. In this competition, the Soviet Union will have to remain unified and powerful. If democracy ever came to the Soviet Union, then the country would be torn apart. Soviet Muslims will make up 30% of the Soviet population by the 21st century. A free Poland would demand territory lost to the Soviets after World War II. All the different ethnic groups, with their different languages and cultures, would demand to become free and independent. The fear of anarchy is why many Russians see Andrei Sakharov as a traitor, a man who wants to destroy the Soviet Union with his calls for democracy. Reforms might weaken Party control somewhat, but most things will stay the same. The greatest changes for the Soviet Union will be in international relations. War no longer makes any sense in the interests of economic security. Economic resources, like oil and wheat, are cheap and abundant. There is no need to conquer places which provide such goods. All conquest brings is a rebellious people who must be constantly watched. Japan does not have a strong military, but is the most prosperous country in the world. The best way to become prosperous is to train and educate people, not try to conquer an empire. Neither can war guarantee national security. Nuclear war is unwinnable and cannot be fought. Already capitalism is spreading to nations in the Third World who need to revive their economies. Instead, these nations have to open up their markets in order to grow. The truly powerful nation in the world is Japan with its economic strength. It is that example which Gorbachev wants to follow. In the past, the Russians have been very eager to change and adopt Western ideas. In the last decades of the Czars, Russia was becoming a very modern, capitalist economy. Many Russians traveled to the West and were eager to learn. Historically, the Russians have been very open to new ideas. Today, Soviet leaders are coming to power who are in this Russian tradition. They grew up and matured after World War II, in the new atmosphere of openness after Stalin. They like Western ideas and want to use them for the Soviet Union. Gorbachev is a young man who has enjoyed Western culture such as rock and roll, jazz, and Western clothes. His wife Raisa is up to date with her Paris fashions and American Express card. Hough points to many Soviet measures taking place which herald this change. Recently, a British politician went on Soviet TV and said that the Soviet Union in Afghanistan was like the U.S. in Nicaragua. Hough himself has published an article in the Soviet Union which attacks Soviet secrecy. A Soviet friend of Hough has told him that there is no need to be a dissident in the Soviet Union, that almost anything can be published today. A new generation, born after the trauma of Stalin and World War II, will continue to change Soviet society, according to Hough.