THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
John Gathings, Editor Emeritus
Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Jim Dillon, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Andy Ball, Features Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Tony Griffin, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Divestment

Today the finance committee of the Board of Trustees will make a recommendation on the issue of divestment from South
Africa to the whole Board. The trustees’ decision concerns apartheid-ridden South Africa. Yet the decision will have far more impact
on another institution: Davidson College.

Apartheid is an evil almost universally opposed in the United States. However, divestment as a possible solution polarizes the emotional
outrage of those in favor against the cold withdrawal of those opposed. Yesterday’s open forum held by the Trustee Finance
Committee showed how divided Davidson is on the issue of divestment. Student views ranged from emotional calls for divestment on
moral grounds to likening divestment to “Pilate’s washing his hands of the crucifixion.” Economics professors gave widely different assessments of
how best to use Davidson’s minuscule “clout” in the war on apartheid.

When the trustees consider whether or not to retain its investments in South Africa, we urge them to base their
decision on how Davidson as an institution, not a balance sheet or a collection of diverse political views, would view
the issue.

For guidance on this issue we checked Davidson’s “Statement of Purpose.” On the issue of apartheid, the “Statement” makes two
important points. One, that Davidson is tied closely to the Presbyterian Church, which heartily encourages divestment; and that “The primary
loyalty of the College extends beyond the bounds of denomination to the Christian Community as a whole, through which medium
it would seek to serve the world.” Economic support of a brutal, racist regime hardly seems a Christ-like policy and
fails to serve the oppressed in South Africa.

The second point in the “Statement of Purpose” that concerns apartheid states, “Davidson’s primary purpose is to develop persons of
humane instincts, of disciplined and creative minds, and of Christian character for full lives of leadership, of service, and of
self-fulfillment.” Continued investment in South Africa, in contrast, is inhumane, uncreative, un-Christian and lacks any hint of leadership, service or
self-fulfillment.

Divestment is a statement. It is a way for Davidson to take a stand against the oppression of blacks in
South Africa, and thereby standing against the oppression of minorities everywhere. Davidson’s divestment will not hurt the college financially and
it probably won’t even affect the government of South Africa. But it does do something: it expresses our moral indignation
of the horrific situation into which blacks are forced.

Some would counter that financial leverage, using our money as power, is the only way to bring about change. Many
major monetary powers have tried that before, and nothing has come of the efforts. Surely the relatively small holdings Davidson
has will not be able to coerce, cajole or convince Botha’s regime that their suppression is wrong.

It may be Davidson vs. Goliath, but the pebble of divestment is our only weapon and taking up “arms” benefits
the college morally. We urge the trustees to take a conscientious look.At their investments and to realize that divestment will
most likely do no harm and also has the chance to do some good. Take a stand now: putting off
the decision will only further apartheid.

Friday, October 3, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Fraternities

To the Editors:

In Steve Soud’s article, “A Call for the Abolition of Fraternities,” Soud blames fraternities for the immaturity of students. Fraternities
“thwart individual expression and erect barriers... and make Jack immature.” Sour grapes? Maybe. Should we take Soud’s indictment of fraternities
seriously? No. The weakness of his supporting arguments forbids us. A fraternity is not wrong since rejection is a fact
of life, he says, “Davidson College is not trying to create a real-world atmosphere,” rather, one “for learning, free from
real-world problems.” That’s the dream behind Disneyland! Davidson is a one-way ticket to the world. If I’m not being confronted
by real-world problems, then what am I doing here!?

He says that fraternities erect barriers that endanger unity at Davidson. “The job of the Christian,” he cries, “is to
break down the barriers created by human society!” That no barriers exist between people is a point to be accepted
when the Christian learns of God’s universal love. It’s not a battle cry but a revelation. If he is drawing
a comparison between fraternities and ethnic or religious prejudices, he will have to try a little harder.

Soud believes that fraternities cause immaturity and that if fraternities were abolished, then immaturity would be abolished. Does he really
believe this? This is, at least, where his logic takes us. I get the feeling that Soud is describing a
world that bears very little resemblance to the one conventionally accepted as real. I am of the opposite opinion. Fraternities
put us in contact with a wide range of people. We discover who we are by reacting both positively and
negatively to them. Fraternities don’t cause immaturity. Instead, they rise out of our need to mature and even encourage the
maturation process. It’s all perfectly natural.

I do thank Soud for reprinting his article last week. With opposition like his, I can predict a bright future
for our fraternities. Carry on, men!

Stan Armistead

CROP

To the Editors:

The Annual Davidson CROP Walk will begin Sunday, Oct. 12, at 2 p.m. at the Davidson Town Green (across Concord
Rd. from DCPC). As usual, the Walk will cover approximately 10 kilometers, or 6 miles. The donations walkers collect from
their sponsors help fight hunger here in Davidson and abroad. CROP is the hunger appeal arm of Church World Service,
which is 40 years old this year. Around the world, CROP seeks to alleviate the misery of hunger and poverty
that many people suffer. Hunger is a real problem: in many parts of the world, lack of safe drinking water
kills half of the children before they turn five, and nearly one billion people suffer from malnutrition.

CROP sends assistance to more than 70 nations. This aid emphasizes local participation, self-help, and long-term solutions. Some of the
programs CROP finances are family and community health, human resources development, food production, and development education. Twenty-five percent of the
money

Continued on page 11
