THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
David Williams, Associate Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Bill Bugg, Features Editor
Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor
Heidi Hooker, News Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Tony Griffin, Advertising Managers
Will Mitchell, Dan Rikard, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Racism

Two years ago, the Black Student Coalition made their Project ’87 proposal as a means toward improving opportunities and the
quality of life for black students at Davidson. As the target date for this project draws nearer, Davidson students are
being confronted on the issue of racism from many sources. Last week, four Davidson students built a shanty to awaken
the student body from their apathy on the issue of South African apartheid. This weekend, as the Admissions Office conducts
its annual Minority Recruitment Weekend, the Ku Klux Klan will march in Davidson. Davidson students are once again being challenged
to show they are not racists.

Davidson should look on all these events—Project ’87, the building of the shanty, and the Ku Klux Klan march—as an
opportunity: an opportunity to show that Davidson College is not a racist institution in any aspect. The shanty built to
represent the homes of the South African blacks that suffer under apartheid did not stand on Chambers Lawn for more
than five hours. Predictably, the administration ordered it destroyed so as not to detract from the Alumni Weekend ceremonies to
be held later that day. Whether or not the actual shanty remains standing is unimportant. The chief goal was to
get more students more involved in Students Against Apartheid. If students will become more active in the fight against apartheid,
the short-lived shanty will not have been made in vain.

The arrival of the Ku Klux Klan is an aspect of racism that hits much closer to home than apartheid.
Yet instead of more action as in the case of apartheid, the best policy to use against the Klan is
one in which Davidson students are quite proficient: a policy of apathy. The Ku Klux Klan thrives on attention whether
it be from a national television network or a few Davidson students. To “fight” the Klan, don’t show up at
their rally. No crowd at the rally means no coverage for them. The arrival of the Klan arouses one’s curiosity
to see just what the robes look like or just what they intend to do at their rally. Don't. Going
to a Klan rally, even just to watch, helps the Klan. Use your imagination; Klan rallies are predictable and you
can probably guess what they’ll do. Some people may want to go heckle the Klansmen. Don't. By heckling or physically
opposing the Klan you only surrender to the hatred the Klan represents. Instead of going to the Klan rally, go
to the Solidarity Gathering to be held behind the Commons on Saturday afternoon. Refreshments will be served, fun will be
had, and, best of all, you will be opposing the Klan by not giving them your attention.

These are important times for Davidson’s stance on the racism issue. Davidson cannot afford even to appear to be a
racist institution. Project '87, the shanty, and the Ku Klux Klan rally challenge Davidson to prove it is not a
racist institution. Every member of Davidson’s student body, faculty, and administration can take a stand against racism both at Davidson
and abroad simply by going to the Commons on Saturday afternoon.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Laura Ballenger, Jim Dillon, Keith Finch, Laura Gabel, Andrea Gross, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine.
Features Staff: Andy Ball, assistant features editor, Laura Ballenger, Mark Chen, Lee Eichelberger, Trey Jammes, Martha Johnson, Jenny Livingston, Nelle
McCorkle.
Sports Staff: Darryl Bego, Emil Cekada, Pam Harmann, Susan Wilkins
Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, David Petranick
Staff Artist: Richard Cloudt
Production Staff: Kim Crabtree, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen Keeley, Kris Kost, Kim Robertson, Margaret White, Ben Yarborough
Compositors: Doug Kim, Lynda Korfmann, Laure Van Dierdonck

Cute: 61486

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, April 25, 1986

THE DAVIDSONIAN

LETTERS

Klan

To the Editors: ThisSaturday, April 26, the Ku Klux Klan will march down Main Street in Davidson. As everyone should
know, the Ku Klux Klan is a national organization based on their hatred for blacks and other minorities. To compound
the situation, this weekend the admissions office is bringing in minority students from across the nation to look at Davidson.
When I first heard of this march, my reaction was similar, I’m sure, to that of many others. “The Ku
Klux Klan here? In Davidson?” Believe it. Iredell County is the most active Klan county in North Carolina. “Well, since
they are coming, let's go out and make them see that they are not welcome.” This preliminary instinct should not
be obeyed. If you give yourself over to this hatred, you become no better than the Klan itself. So what
can be done?

This Thursday at 4 p.m. in front of Belk, a group of concerned students met and considered their options. A
member of the Davidson Town Council and [SGA President] Mark Sandy spoke. The Ku Klux Klan are going on this
march for one reason: to get publicity. There would be nothing they would profit more from than if a bunch
of rowdy people protested their march. The Ku Klux Klan want publicity. The thing that will hurt them the most
is if no one shows up to watch them. All of the Davidson merchants are going to close their stores.
Entertainment and free food will be offered behind the Commons. I urge everyone to go to the Commons, students and
townspeople alike. Do not give the Klan what they want the most: media coverage. The more people that show up,
the more media coverage the Ku Klux Klan will get. Every year it becomes more and more apparent that yes,
Davidson is in the real world. The Klan is one aspect of society that exists, and it will not just
go away. Do not become an inadvertent supporter of the Klan. If anyone you know plans to go to the
march, either to protest, taunt, or out of curiosity, discourage them. Nothing could discourage the Klan more than if they
had to walk through a deserted town. If you have the time, go out even before the march and encourage
students and townies alike to come to the activities behind the Commons. The Klan is rising out of Iredell County.
Want to stop this? Do not show up at the march! Actively discourage other people from going also. Turn Davidson
into a ghost town.

Matt Mathews

Council

To the Editors:

This past Monday night I took an ill-timed nap on the second floor of the Carolina Inn. Ill-timed because I
missed another attempt on the lives of those on the Honor Council. Most of it was okay, from what I
hear, but I have a simple question I must ask again. Why does the issue become so personal? People seem
angry at the Honor Council much of the time and I don’t understand it, as a student and as a
retired chairman of the Council. Listen, okay? The Honor Council is composed of students who are elected by the students
to do a job that is clearly outlined in the Codes. Privacy must be maintained in many cases because we
don’t want people to be mortified to the point of not coming back to Davidson. But rather than empathizing with
defendants on that issue, some people here immediately assume that privacy to be a cover-up of some sort. One person
this past Monday even asserted that innocent people are the prey of the Council. He compared innocent defendants to Steinbeck’s
Lennie in "Of Mice and Men." I’m not sure how innocent defendants would react to being compared to a retarded,
hulking man who has no idea what he wants out of life, but the comparison is important. People at Davidson
are not retarded. If they are brought up before the Council, it is because evidence suggests they may have committed
an Honor Code or Code of Responsibility violation, not because they carelessly killed a woman — as Lennie does in
the book. The Council always considers intent, hard as it is to judge, and always gives the...
