Friday, May 2, 1986

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Students build another shanty for protests

By HEIDI HOOKER

The Students Against Apartheid group, led by freshmen Kevin Dunn, Jay Barron, Greg Busby, and Michael Schull, have continued their
protest of the college’s South African investments and the 1979 “Statement of Davidson Trustee Endowment Investment Policy” by constructing four
shanties on the lawn in front of the Union.

The Students Against Apartheid group met Wednesday night and decided to construct the new shanties to demonstrate to the Trustees
(visiting this weekend for a board meeting) their desire for revision of the seven-year-old policy for South African investments. In
this demonstration, concerned students of the organization have kept the shanties occupied all day, while six students even slept in
them Wednesday night.

Dunn commented that he is annoyed by the students’ apathy in general on this issue and hopes to promote student
awareness of the controversy and what he perceives to be “blatant hypocrisy” in the school’s investment principles. In the near
future, Dunn hopes to obtain an open hearing on campus for students in front of the Trustee Committee that will
be responsible for reevaluating the policy and reporting back to the general Trustee Board by Oct. 1, 1986, for their
next meeting.

Dunn wrote an open letter to the Board of Trustees, which is posted at various major locations on campus, expressing
the students’ desire for reassessment of the policy. Only part of the organized Students Against Apartheid, including Dunn, are pursuing
divestment, but Dunn asserts that the reassessment of the policy is the first step for the general Students Against Apartheid
movement.

Dunn points out that the hypocrisy of the investment policy lies in its statement that “the college’s investments should not
be made in securities or corporations or in other assets which are used in ways which contradict or violate the
Christian commitment of the college.” Dunn believes the policy on investment does “contradict and violate” the College’s Christian commitment as
well as the “morals of the Trustees.”

The degree of investment included in the policy is that “there is certainly agreement... that the South African government is
in violation of human rights as we in America perceive these rights, and also in violation of Christian principles. But,
so are the governments of many other major countries throughout the world.” Dunn attacks the “false morality” of the Trustees
and endorses the request of the Executive Committee of the Faculty for the Board of Trustees to renew the policy
in respect to Davidson's South African investments.

Solidarity Celebration overshadows Klan march

By HEIDI HOOKER

Through the joint efforts and organization of the Student Government Association and the Union Board, a solidarity celebration was held
behind the Vail Commons on Saturday afternoon from 1-4 p.m. while the Ku Klux Klan marched on Main Street that
afternoon. Student leaders stressed that they organized the solidarity rally as a response to the Klan’s march, not a protest.

Student Government Association President Mark Sandy originated the idea of the celebration and commented, “We decided we wanted to respond
in a positive way, not to have an anti-Klan rally, but rather to have a Solidarity Day as a positive
approach.” Funded by the SGA and the Union Board, the Solidarity festivities provided entertainment featuring folk singing by Tom Jennings,
junior Bobby Houck, and other students, and providing free refreshments and helium-filled balloons. Activities included frisbee, volleyball, and table tennis
games. Approximately 500 people attended the celebration.

The Klan marched on Main Street from Town Hall to Griffith Road between 2 and 3 p.m. in a group
of about 37 men, women, and children. Hank McKerman of the Davidson police force commented that the streets were “almost
barren” and affirmed that the college’s celebration was “instrumental in our not having a problem.” Campus Police Officer Rick Moore
commented that there seemed to be “more police officers than spectators at the march.” While town police, the state highway
patrol, and the State Bureau of Investigation patrolled Main Street in uniform, campus police were asked to stay on campus
and attend the solidarity festivities.

Despite the efforts of student leaders, ten to 15 did attend the Klan march. Senior Pat Millen expressed his disappointment
shared by other leaders that their goal of 100 percent solidarity was not achieved.Not achieved but did explain that the
celebration was a “tremendous success” overall. Millen felt that the plan for the day was “well-conceived from the beginning and
went forth so easily.” Student leaders achieved a two-fold purpose in the Solidarity Day event. SGA Vice President Vincent Knight
explained that though the celebration was significant in revealing the Davidson community’s lack of interest in the Klan’s statement by
creating a “ghost town” on Main Street, he asserted the interest of the SGA and Union “to unite the community
and the campus to learn more about each other.” The making of name buttons at the celebration was to help
identify people and introduce them around. Knight anticipates that the SGA and the Union will hold this Solidarity Day annually
in the fall as a means of orienting the students to their surrounding community. Former Union President Rob Vaughn commented
that he “hopes to establish the issue of solidarity at Davidson in the forefront of people’s minds.”

College President John Kuykendall expressed his appreciation of this student-organized effort to unite the students with their community of professors,
administrators, and town folks explaining, “This is the creativity of Davidson students at their very best... It expresses a lot
of positive sentiments and avoids the kind of negativity you might expect in a small town on a day like
this.” Kuykendall in his letter to the student body expressed that the Klan march was a “significant occasion for the
testing of our college community... It would have been an easy thing to give their (the Klan’s) message an unwarranted
measure of publicity by giving public expression to personal curiosity or animosity. It was to the great credit of you
as Davidson students that our response was set forth in much more creative terms. I have had many occasions to
be gratified by the wisdom and character of the members of this student body. The Solidarity Celebration... was expressive of
the very best of those attributes.”

Freshman Harry Broome, Jr. began the effort which resulted in the Solidarity Day. He was one of the first students
to pursue a means of student response to the Klan. He and freshmen David Rochford and Todd Young drew up
fliers concerning the Klan’s march which were distributed around the campus Tuesday night a week ago. Broome had originally desired
that these fliers let everybody know about the march and announce a general meeting for all concerned students in front
of Belk dormitory on Thursday afternoon. Broome commented that their initial intentions in accord with the anger and disgust aroused
by the anticipated Klan march were to organize an anti-Klan rally. The three freshmen researched effective means of response by
contacting the Davidson town council, the Chief of Police, the area’s NAACP, and finally SGA President Mark Sandy. Wednesday afternoon
Sandy, Assistant Chaplain and community leader Brenda Tapia, BSC president junior Rob Ellison, Millen, senior Horace Manor and senior Rob
Vaughn discussed possibilities for a student reaction to the Klan and came up with the idea for the Solidarity Day
celebration.

Sandy and Vaughn proposed the idea of Solidarity Day at the meeting set up by Broome. About 100 students attended
the meeting, and Sandy commented that he was very impressed that despite the variety of opinions and differences concerning student
response to the Klan, the students were able to compromise their reactions to establish one response and act as a
united student body. Sandy had originally hoped that whatever they decided to do, the students would act as a unified
community. Students did agree on the Solidarity Day idea and Sandy, Vaughn, and Knight began organizing the event Thursday night.
Under Knight's leadership, about 1000 leaflets were distributed Friday afternoon throughout the community, inviting members to join the solidarity celebration.
Knight was able to recruit about 100 students to help with the “leg work” and was impressed with the student
concern. In addition, Knight had the town merchants contacted and asked to shut down business that afternoon to assist with
the attempt to make Davidson's Main Street a “Ghost Town.” Businesses like the M&M Soda Shop did in fact comply
with the request. Knight felt that the Klan march had no ill effect at all on the success of minority
weekend events but instead revealed an impressive unity between campus and community.
