Opinions The Davidsonian Friday, January 10, 1986

U.S. should attack causes of terrorism, not effects

David Williams

The tie 1986 has officially arrived, and President Reagan has already held his first press conference of the new year. Significantly, the subject of Reagan’s press conference Tuesday night was one which Americans of all ages, races, religions, and economic backgrounds have become anxious about — international terrorism. Specifically, Reagan addressed the threat of Colonel Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Libyan leader, in international terrorism and imposed full economic sanctions upon Libya, saying Libya is “a threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States.”

Will 1986 feature the end of international terrorism once and for all, or will it bring a significant increase in terrorist activity? Reagan, in his press conference, has already set the pace for the United States’ policy toward state-sponsored terrorism in 1986. Reagan stated: “On December 27th terrorists, as we know, attacked Rome and Vienna International Airports — the latest in a series of atrocities which have shocked the world. It’s clear that the responsibility for these latest attacks lies squarely with the terrorist known as Abu Nidal and his organization. And we shall make every effort to bring Abu Nidal and other terrorists to justice. But these murderers could not carry out their crimes without the sanctuary and support provided by regimes such as Colonel Qaddafi’s in Libya.” Reagan later added that “there is irrefutable evidence of his role in these attacks.”

Significantly, Tuesday night’s press conference marks the third time Reagan has examined the possibility of military force against Libya and resorted to economic sanctions instead. After the terrorist attacks and Qaddafi's verbal indication of support for the attacks two weeks ago, Reagan sent approximately 40 warships near the coast of Libya in the Mediterranean Sea, indicating the possibility of an American retaliatory strike on Libya. Qaddafi then prepared his armed forces to counter a possible American strike. Reagan backed down from his original military threat because he “felt it would raise unacceptable risks.” Apparently, Reagan was concerned with the 1500 American lives at stake in Libya, the fact that Libya could down American planes, and that an “outbreak of anti-Americanism” could occur in most all Arab countries. But he ordered all Americans in Libya to return home and promised that if the economic sanctions imposed did not stop Qaddafi, further actions would be taken.

At least, one can become a little more relaxed when learning that President Reagan did not seek an outright retaliatory strike on Libya, as urged by Jeanne Kirkpatrick and Hodding Carter on ABC’s Nightline last Friday night. Even if Qaddafi actually did participate in backing Abu Nidal, the cities of Rome and Vienna are not located in the United States nor in the Western Hemisphere; therefore, an attack on a couple of airline ticket counters in these European cities does not constitute a direct threat to American national security. A retaliatory strike on Libya would justifiably be interpreted by the Arab states as an act of war. The Arab states, fearing a direct threat to their security, would have no choice but to back Libya in their actions against the United States.

Yet will economic sanctions really work to end terrorism? Will Reagan’s “threaten-harshly-then-go-easy-on-them” policy really accomplish anything towards the goal of ending all terrorist attacks, which continue to enrage every U.S. citizen? Or is war the only way out? As Jerry Levin, a former hostage held in Lebanon for eleven months, said Wednesday at Davidson, “While there is talking, there is hope.” I think these words are important for consideration when America forms its policy toward the Middle East. Despite the walls of harsh rhetoric that Qaddafi and Reagan have placed between them, Americans and Arabs alike must realize that continuous threats between the United States and Libya are not going to resolve this situation. Only peaceful negotiation and reconciliation will work to achieve a real solution. The United States’ goal in solving theProblem of international terrorism should be to work out a policy focusing on the causes of terrorism and not their effects. While the United States must not simply turn its cheek every time an American citizen is killed or kidnapped abroad, neither should it try to solve a problem only through retaliation with military or economic threats. Terrorist attacks are the symptoms of a larger, admittedly complex disease in the Middle East. If the United States desires to rid the world of this disease, it must attack the disease itself, rather than the symptoms. Maybe President Reagan should look back a few years to the Carter Administration's successes in the Camp David Accords to learn how to treat such a disease. He might find that Carter, in many respects, might not have been such a poor president after all. Whatever the case, Americans can expect more terrorist bombings, attacks, and hostage-taking crises to occur throughout 1986. We can only hope that these attacks do not surface within the United States. Until someone decides to take the initiative to negotiate a solution to the one major problem of the Middle East, the question of whether the Palestine Liberation Organization should have a home, terrorism will continue on... and on... and on...

David Williams is a junior political science major from Memphis, Tennessee.

---

Facing the facts about our Israeli allies

Timothy Brown

Having caught wind of the Israeli spy case, the Jewish community voices disbelief, and the Israeli Foreign Minister his shock and consternation over the arrest of Jonathan Pollard. And where exactly does that leave us? In bewilderment, without a sense of bearing and without trust for our allies? Nothing that drastic, we hope. Israel has reasons to spy on the U.S. She’s a sovereign nation, surrounded by folks unhospitable to her. Has her own national security to defend. And though America is, arguably, her best friend, it is this friend who sold high-technology weapons to her unhospitable neighbors Saudi Arabia and Jordan. And who spent some time with the Palestine Liberation Organization, with whom Israel has an ongoing feud sure to outlast that of the Hatfields and McCoys. Some claim — Why, we had a promise with 'em. And they broke it. And you can bet America would have never spied on Israel. Such an argument is on the same order as arguing that America wouldn't have spied on Israel had she sold arms to Nicaragua or Cuba, or spoken friendly-like to Russia. Every coin’s got two sides. Do not American leaders have the same obligations as their Israeli counterparts? The U.S. should inquire to find just how much dirt Israel picked up, to what extent Israeli agents penetrated our defenses. And while we're at it, why not run an intelligence check of our own? Why. “Fair’s fair,” reminds Lars-Erik Nelson. Which leads to the current problems of Israel's conspicuous actions. Such as her whisking away the two diplomats involved. Like an amateur card player, Israel's hiding something, but doesn’t do a good job of it. So you approach her wondering, “What is she hiding? Does she know the names of all involved? How many Pollards are there now? and How much has she learned?” Of all these many happenings, I find most disturbing our approach to the case. It's as if we're saying Now, now Israel, and punishing with a smack on the wrist. George Shultz walked on over to Israel and spoke to her leaders about this matter, it being a wonder that he could talk without stumbling over all the niceties said and the curtseys. And his message was short, but sweet: America has full confidence in Israel, and America perceives her as “the truest symbol of the victory of good over evil.” So what are we afraid of? A slap on the wrist won't do. And if we are such good friends (I have no reason to believe it not true) the friendship will endure reprimand.

Brown is a sophomore from Mint Hill, N.C.