Grants available for international studies

The Dean Rusk Program in International Studies will fund student summer projects abroad for 1985. They are continuing a program started by David Barnard ’79. The following requirements for applicants have been established:

1. The project presented in an application need not include plans for formal “classroom” learning, although that is not excluded.
2. The award will be given to one or more students planning to return to Davidson. Graduating seniors are not eligible.
3. The application should include a vita indicating interests and accomplishments, a two-to-three page essay describing the proposed summer project and indicating what the student hopes to achieve, and a proposed budget.
4. Applications should be sent either to Professor Clark Ross, Chairman, International Education Committee, or to Ambassador Jack Perry, Director of the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies. The deadline is Friday, March 14.

Officers to discuss self-protection

The Davidson College Police Department and the Rape Crisis Committee will co-sponsor a program on women’s self-protection at the Vail Commons this Sunday at 7 p.m. Two female officers of the Mecklenburg County Police Department will present the program. The Mecklenburg officers will show a film entitled “No Exceptions”, which demonstrates how one can decrease one’s chances of becoming a victim of an attack and avoid serious injury. They will provide tips on security in the home, in the car, and on the street and will demonstrate techniques of rape prevention.

“We encourage all female students to come to this important meeting,” police officer Ray Thrower said. “Male students are welcome also.”

Trustee to speak at campus service

A Davidson College trustee whose ancestors were slaves of a 19th-century Davidson family will speak Jan. 20 at a campus memorial service for Martin Luther King, Jr. Thelma Davidson Adair, a colleague of King in the civil rights movement, will discuss her memories of work with the black leader at 7 p.m. Monday, Jan. 20 in Lingle Chapel of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The service forms part of a series of Adair’s activities on campus as pastor in residence, Jan. 19-22.

Adair was elected a trustee of Davidson College in 1983 and has a long history of involvement with education in the Charlotte area. Her parents were born in Mecklenburg County, and her grandfather, William Henry Davidson, was a slave. Members of her family were slaves of the family of William Lee Davidson, on whose land the college was built. Adair is professor emeritus of education at Queens College of the University of the City of New York and currently serves as a consultant to Barber-Scotia College, as well as chairman of Barber-Scotia’s education department. Adair has also worked with several civil rights leaders including the Rev. Jesse Jackson.

Adair will also preach at 11 a.m. Sunday, Jan. 19 at Davidson College Presbyterian Church and will speak at an Open Luncheon at 12:30 p.m. Wednesday, Jan. 22 in the 900 Room of the Union. The luncheon costs $1.50.

Senior gift chosen; work begins

The 1986 Senior Class Gift is the Dean Rusk Summer Study Abroad Scholarship. The gift was determined by a majority class-wide vote taken Dec. 18 from a total of four gift possibilities. Any senior interested in helping with this class project should contact either Jenny Gotto, chairman of the Senior Gift Committee, or Vince Dennis, vice-chairman.

“Entire class participation is imperative for a successful pledge campaign,” which takes place during the first week of spring term, Gotto said.

-News Summary-

Kincaid discusses town-college relations

By JEFF LESESNE

Randall Kincaid, Davidson College professor and town board member, discussed the relationship of the town and the college as part of the Union Speaker series Wednesday night.When asked if the town of Davidson hates college students, Kincaid emphatically answered, “No.” Kincaid pointed out that half of the town Board of Commissioners has a close connection to Davidson College. Jane Avinger is the wife of former professor and Alumni Association President Robert Avinger. College Business Manager Robert Currie is also a member. Kincaid pointed out many areas where the town has done things for Davidson students. He said the town helped build the new post office which serves most all students. The town also subsidizes ambulance and fire protection for the college. Kincaid added, “The town police have never raided the campus looking for illegal substances.”

Likewise, the college benefits the town through revenue collected by the state and apportioned to the town. The town gets state revenue based on the population, and college students are counted as residents of the town in the census. Kincaid mentioned other areas where the college and the town have cooperated. One area mentioned is the site of the computer services center. This center is now in the old post office. That block, however, has been zoned for commercial use, not college use. The town worked with the college by allowing them to violate that zoning law. Kincaid said the town also allowed the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity to remain on Main Street with a ten-year grandfather clause. When this clause ran out, he said, “Reasonable people settled the issue.”

The next major topic discussed by Kincaid was the downtown plan for Davidson. He said this plan includes a new group of shops behind the existing storefronts along Main Street. He added that the sidewalk along the front will be completely bricked and most of the telephone poles will be removed. Work on the new post office and several stores along Depot Street, including Peregrine Restaurant, has fulfilled portions of this plan. Kincaid said the plan was formed to make sure the downtown area remained a viable place to compete with shopping centers planned at the exits of I-77. Kincaid said, “This is to prevent Davidson from becoming a ghost town. We want interesting shops through an attractive environment.”

(continued from page 1)

tic and eager about involving the entire campus. “Lucinda is good at bringing people into the Union at all levels and making people feel good about their involvement,” he said. He added that her greatest asset is her experience as vice-president of the co-curricular council. “She has been able to observe Rob [Vaughn] in action for a year and with that advantage, it’s exciting to think about where the Union will be next year.” Aikman and Houck both have experience with the Union as members-at-large this year. Brown feels his responsibilities as director involve teaching and supporting the officers and helping them accomplish their goals. He hopes to aid them in developing flexibility, allowing them to respond to students’ ideas and follow the Union Board plan.

All the Union Committees will be open for new chairpersons. The committees are: Games, 900 Room, Intimate Performances, Concerts, Pop Films, Davidson Outdoors, Speakers, Women’s Concerns, Campus Forum, Chamber Music, Cultural Events, Gallery, Fine Films, Literary Arts, International Committee. “Students don’t need a lot of experience, just a lot of enthusiasm,” Houck said.

9 a.m. ‘til 5:30 p.m.
Winter Clearance Sale
Starts Thursday, Jan. 16
Save 25% to 50%
On All Winter Clothes
For Men and Women
SUITS, COATS, PANTS, SHIRTS, JACKETS
SKIRTS, BLOUSES, SWEATERS AND SHOES
Monday thru Saturday
Downtown Mooresville

900 Room
9:30 PM Jan. 17/18
Free Admission