Sports

Cats maintain lead in Southern Con

By BOYD COGGINS

The Cats maintained their lead in the southern division of the Southern Conference last weekend by taking two of three
games from The Citadel. Davidson leads the division by half a game over Western Carolina with a record of 8-4
in the conference and 17-7-1 overall.

The Cats began this week’s play last Wednesday with a 12-5 loss to North Carolina in Chapel Hill. Davidson out-hit
the Tarheels 14-11, but UNC used an eight-run fifth inning to break open a close game. North Carolina opened the
scoring in the bottom of the first inning when Steve Mrowka, who had singled, scored on a sacrifice fly by
Chris Lauria. The Cats tied the game at one in the top of the second inning when senior Tim Waters
and junior Dave Depaul hit back-to-back two-out doubles.

In the fifth inning, the Tarheels used six hits and two walks to blow the game open and take a
9-1 lead. The big hit in the inning was a grand slam home run by Glenn Liacourad which cleared the
left field fence. The Cats scored their second run in the eighth inning when sophomore Allen Lewis doubled and scored
on a fielder’s choice by junior Dave Turgeon. The Cats finished their scoring in the ninth inning with three more
runs. Depaul started the rally with a one-out double to right. Lewis and Turgeon followed with RBI doubles of their
own to bring home two runs. Senior Scott Weaver capped off the scoring when he singled to left to bring
home Turgeon.

On Saturday, the Cats got back on the winning track by taking two games from The Citadel by the scores
of 7-4 and 3-2. They had a combination of clutch hitting and strong pitching to win their fifth and sixth
straight conference games. In the first game, junior pitcher Steve Condon won his seventh straight game without a loss. He
pitched seven innings and struck out six while allowing only five hits. Condon got off to a shaky start, though,
as The Citadel scored three runs in the first inning on two hits and an error. The big blow was
an RBI double by Rich Hardwick. After Ken Vickery scored the Bulldogs' fourth run in the second inning, Condon held
them to only one hit over the last five innings.

Davidson began its scoring in the bottom of the first inning when sophomore center fielder Bill Masse led off with
his sixth home run of the year. In the third inning, the Cats scored three more runs on Turgeon’s sixth
home run of the year. Davidson won the game in the bottom of the sixth inning by adding three more
runs. Senior Keith Helfant started the scoring when he doubled to left field to bring home both Waters and Masse.
Lewis followed with another double to bring home Helfant with an insurance run. Lewis and Helfant had two hits apiece
as the Cats pounded out 10 for the game.

In the nightcap, the Cats used two runs in the bottom of the fifth inning to come from behind and
pull out the victory. With The Citadel leading 2-1, Depaul started the rally with a one-out single. Masse followed with
a double to left which scored Depaul. Helfant then singled to score Masse with the winning run. Picking up the
win was sophomore Dave Fitzgerald who pitched seven strong innings to run his record to 3-1. He struck out three
and completed his fourth game in four starts. Leading the hitting attack were Masse, Lewis, and Waters who each had
two hits.

Track teams finish 10th out of 19 in Relays

By MIKE ADAMS

The Davidson men’s and women’s track teams both posted tenth place finishes in the Davidson Relays held last Friday and
Saturday. There were nineteen teams in the men’s competition and seventeen in the women’s. Frostburg State, out of Maryland, placed
first in both the men’s and women’s meets. The Davidson men scored 21 points, only 21 behind fourth place finisher
and Southern Con-Masse scored the Cats' first run in the third inning when he hit his seventh home run of
the season. On Sunday, however, the Cats’ winning streak was broken when they suffered their worst defeat of the season
by the score of 24-12. The Citadel scored 10 runs in the first inning and eight more in the third
as they battered four Davidson pitchers for 24 runs on 27 hits. The Cats battled hard to come back but
they were unable to overcome this large deficit. Leading batters for the game for the Cats were Helfant and Waters,
who were each three-for-five.

The men were led by two seniors who placed in two events apiece. Lou Kremple secured a fifth-place finish in
the shot put with a throw of 45-2 and a second-place showing in the discus with a toss of 149-4.
Kremple’s efforts were matched by Jay Braun. Braun notched a second-place finish in the pole vault with a leap of
13-11 1/2 and ran the 440-yard leg of the sixth-place distance medley relay. Sophomore Rob Zimmerman and junior Dan Simonds
each added a home run in the losing cause for the Cats.

A couple of the key players who have contributed to Davidson’s success this season are Condon and Lewis. Condon currently
is 7-0 with five complete games. He is the Cats’ ace and the conference’s top pitcher. In 50 innings of
work this season, he has allowed only 11 earned runs for a 1.99 ERA. He has struck out 36 batters
while only giving up eight walks for an excellent 4.5 to 1 strikeout-to-walk ratio. He also pitched a no-hitter against
Furman three weeks ago. If he continues on his present course, Condon looks to be the top candidate for Player
of the Year in the conference.

Another Davidson player who also has a legitimate shot at the conference's top honor is Lewis. In 25 games, he
has 44 hits in 86 at-bats for an unbelievable batting average of .512. He leads the team in doubles with
16 and total bases with 70. His powerful bat has connected for five homers and 31 RBIs. After Sunday's game,
the Cats lead the southern division by half a game over Western Carolina, who is 7-4 in the conference after
winning three games over Furman last weekend. The Citadel is in third place, two games out of first with a
6-6 record. Furman brings up the rear with a 2-9 record.

This weekend, Davidson travels to Greenville, S.C., where they will play Furman in a doubleheader on Friday and a single
game on Saturday. If the Cats continue to get strong hitting (team average .349) and accurate pitching, they should have
no trouble maintaining their lead.

The Davidson women scored 20 points and they were only six behind ninth-place Furman. The star for the Lady Cats
was freshman Maria Douglas. She placed third in the 100-meter hurdles with a time of 16.32 and fifth in the
400-meter hurdles at 1:08.62. She also ran the fastest leg for the Cats in their fourth-place mile-relay team. The women
also got points from freshman Maureen Harris, who placed fourth in the shot put with a throw of 32-1 3/4.
The distance medley relay team also finished fourth.

Coach Gary Andrew called the meet a “huge success.” He attributed its smooth running to capable volunteers who assisted throughout.
Andrew was very pleased by the performances of both teams and said that both continue to show improvement as the
final meets of the season approach.

Sports Information
