Friday, October 17, 1986  
THE DAVIDSONIAN  

Just Words: Drug abuse  
Tim Brown  

To many who watch and listen to sports events and contemporary comedians, it seems that our generation is one plagued with drug abuse, especially in our generation’s sports industries. Last June, Len Bias, a 6-foot-8-inch All-American forward from the University of Maryland, died from a cocaine overdose. It supposedly was his first-time use of drugs. His death was tragic because most of us assumed Len Bias had it all together: an exploding leap and a velvety-smooth jump shot, respect and a home among the Boston Celtics, a tight-knit religious background, and a warm smile (which would have come in handy in finding commercial endorsements, girlfriends, and friends among children and adults alike). The hyperactive, rubber-faced, schizophrenic comedian Robin Williams instantaneously assumes the personality of a coked-out, lanky black outfielder who stares cravingly at the white line going all the way turtle! Wait! Don’t steal home. Share it!

However, another form of drug abuse grows rapidly and escapes the type of publicity given to drug abuse among athletes. This form of drug abuse has more damaging effects than drug abuse in our sports industries, and it is found in the workplace. Joint by joint, line by line, pill by pill, drug abuse has permeated all levels of American businesses, from the little people all the way up to the corporate executives. A sign painter Steven Soriano, 25, used to sniff cocaine while he worked. He finally kicked the habit when he started averaging two small signs a day, which looked like finger paintings done by kindergartners, and after his boss threatened to kick him out the front door. Susan, a nurse, recalls when she would sneak 50 to 100 milligrams of Demerol from a patient or from the supply room, and would shoot it into her thigh twice during every shift. The accessibility of drugs, a quality-control inspector was as looped as a figure eight.

The effects of drug abuse in the workplace are large in number and involve enormous human and economic costs. Some of these costs are immediately evident. A forklift operator who smoked a couple of joints during his lunch break drives the forklift through the cargo and — oops — right into the warehouse’s wall. A welder in Houston smokes pot while working on a skyscraper and meets his Maker eight stories below. A construction worker in Austin diets on amphetamines at lunchtime and drills a hole the size of a silver dollar through his hand. A coked-out taxi driver gives his passengers a ride they'll always remember and a long stay in the hospital they'll never forget. In Louisiana, a petrochemical plant burns to the ground, costing the owners millions of dollars and four employees their lives. The cause: employees on barbiturates mixed the wrong chemicals and were too slow in carrying out emergency measures. A stoned Wall Street securities trader fails to carry through a transaction. High-tech industries gradually go bottoms up because employees on drugs make minute but costly quality-control mistakes. Statistics repeatedly show that an employee on drugs compared to a straight worker is one-third less productive, three times more likely to be injured or absent, more likely to reduce morale among employees, and more likely to scare customers away. Other more detailed statistics have determined conservatively the cost of drug abuse to the economy: absenteeism cost $4.9 billion, drug-related deaths $1.3 billion, imprisonment $2.1 billion, criminal careers to support criminal habits.

The New Jersey Supreme Court has already set the precedent that lockers of high school children cannot be searched routinely without a warrant. Strong unions use this decision to appeal almost any disciplinary action taken by the boss. Understandably, contempt between bosses and employees flourishes.

Jim Kelly, a former drug abuser and reformed alcoholic, has come forth with a much better answer. He has set up counseling centers within plants. Any worker with a drug or alcohol problem can come to speak with Jim, who guarantees confidentiality. Jim has expanded and bettered his counseling service by earning state certification as an alcoholism counselor, and by hiring clinical psychologists and a computer. General Motors and Phillip Petroleum Co. both admit to using Jim’s counseling service as a model.$8.3 billion, treatment $1.9 billion, research $367 million, police and judicial expenditures $5.2 billion, alarm systems and guards for businesses $1.6 billion, and destruction of property $113 million. All of which, according to my pocket calculator, totals $25.78 billion. Some costs such as loss of productivity and declining quality are not noticed immediately, but are far more costly. A Cleveland pharmaceutical company unknowingly sells huge batches of contaminated products because of an $18 million transaction. General Motors statisticians calculate that for every $1 invested in its program, it receives $3 in return. Likewise, Phillips Petroleum Co. boasts of saving $8 million per annum in fewer accidents, less absenteeism, and higher productivity.

Another good answer to the drug abuse problem is offered to American businesses by the Japanese, which is quite neighborly of our stiff competitors. Ingeniously, the Japanese offer exercise breaks to relieve the physical feelings of tension and the psychological feelings of boredom. They also have worker-management committees, which have employees doing activities and making decisions outside the realm of their normal jobs. Such committees increase feelings of importance, decrease feelings of alienation, and substantially lessen drug abuse among employees.

The one really big problem, which I can attest to, is identifying the person who abuses drugs in the workplace before serious damage is done. Employees who abuse drugs are secretive, making themselves hard to identify. Fellow employees are reluctant to report drug abuses to employers for two reasons. They don’t trust their own abilities to identify drug abusers. And reporting a fellow employee’s drug use would be frowned upon by many fellow employees just as a child’s squealing is frowned upon by elementary school students. Very few signs of drug abuse are obvious to the average employee, whose repertoire of signs of drug abuse includes hiccups, a zigzag walk, and an inability to touch one’s nose while standing on one foot.

Strategies and game plans to combat drug abuse in the workplace are few in number but show some promise. One of the less promising answers employs urine tests, locker searching, and training dogs to sniff but not to eat the entrails of lunch pails. The effectiveness of this method lessens as the constitutional grounds on which employers base their right to invade the privacy of their employees become more contested.

Dressed as if he had just stepped down from a Brooks Brothers’ front window display, a very successful Denver attorney feels like a human cat, who lands on his feet no matter what. He swears that he will remain forever free from the love-hate relationship he once had with cocaine. Painfully, he explains how he would cancel all of his afternoon appointments, rush all of his clients out the door, and return to his office so he could get a rush from snorting cocaine from his desk drawer through a hollowed-out Bic pen.

I was inexperienced in this area two summers ago. I worked with a young woman for three months and never suspected that she was addicted to cocaine, or that she would go so far as to steal $300 from a daily report to support her habit. She was young, attractive, intelligent, and had a warm smile that compared to the glowing grin of Len Bias.

Brown is Opinions editor of The Davidsonian.

---

SERO SHIRTMAKER

Great selections in new plaids - all cotton & easy care fabrics - exciting new colorations. The casual elegance of these precisely matched plaids will please you... and they are so handsome. COME SEE! Ladies Wear Too! Downtown Mooresville 9 am ‘til 5:30 pm Monday thru Saturday.