Woodrow Wilson scholars on campus, p. 4

The Davidsonian
Volume LXXV, Number 20
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, April 18, 1986

New Patterson Court selection process proposed

By JEFF LESESNE

The Patterson Court Selection Study Committee voted this week to propose what is known as the “Option System” for the selection of members to fraternities and eating houses. Under this system, a house will choose to be self-selecting or bid-distributing. Along with this choice, there are several stipulations to which each house must abide.

First, no active discouragement will be allowed by any house. However, a freshman will be able to find out, only from the rush chairman, his/her status with the house. According to junior Dan Murrey, chairman of the Self-Selection Committee, this will enable freshmen to be better apprised of their situation and standing in order to alleviate misunderstanding.

Murrey maintained that the Patterson Court Council would be the only representative body on the Court. He said houses would contribute a percentage of their budget to the PCC each term to sponsor all-court social functions. These functions should occur at a suggested rate of one every two weeks.

The Committee’s recommendation states that the PCC will be composed of the president of each house, the treasurer of each house, and one other member from each house. Also, Greek Week will be replaced by Patterson Court Week, which will involve all houses.

The Study Committee also indicated many areas for which the PCC will be responsible. The PCC will educate freshmen to the system and schedule meals and tours at the houses. They will oversee the Court Selection process and they will coordinate the various court functions. They will also provide a yearly review of the system to the President and Dean of Students of the College. The PCC will also form a PCC Court to handle violations of the new guidelines, hazing, vandalism, and group violations of the Code of Responsibility.

Along with this new system, the Selection Study Committee has recommended a new calendar for all the houses to follow. During the first seven weeks of fall term, houses will not be allowed to have rush-related functions. Freshmen will also not be allowed to enter any Patterson Court house. Freshmen will, however, be allowed to attend any of the PCC’s all-court functions.

In the final three weeks of fall term, tours of the houses will be conducted and houses may sponsor “dry rush functions,” which means no alcohol consumption at these functions whatsoever. In the first three weeks of winter term, freshmen will be allowed to attend houses for meals. Also, houses may serve alcohol at functions during this period.

Following Christmas holidays, houses will resume the PCC planned meal program and rush functions may continue. During this time, houses choosing to distribute bids may do so. Rush period will end on Tuesday of the eighth week of winter term and selection forms will be given to freshmen. These forms will be due on Thursday of the eighth week and on Friday membership will be posted.

According to the Selection Study Committee, this system will provide many advantages for the college community. First, the system will place less pressure on freshmen and the house members in regard to parties and rushing. “Freshmen and upperclassmen can meet each other in a more natural environment,” according to the committee report. The new system should also increase hall unity and increase Union activity participation. It should also help increase participation in other events around campus. The Selection Study Committee hopes freshmen will become better acclimated to the academic life before entering the social life.will also be more easily educated to the system. As for the individual houses, it will ease the transition to the new alcohol policy and allow house members more time together without being involved in pledge and rush activities. According to chairman Murrey, freshmen and upperclassmen can “meet in classes, on sports teams, and in Union activities without social and party pressures.” He said, “The Committee planned to get rid of ambiguities, to make a clear-cut system.” He also maintained one of the dangers of going to a pure bid system might be to make more of a conflict between the college and Patterson Court. According to Murrey, “It is another way to integrate without taking away selectivity.” The Committee set out to help improve the college community. The Committee also wanted to make the system as self-governing as possible. “PCC is going to have a lot on its hands,” said Murrey. The members on the Committee include Murrey, senior Peter Baay, junior John Harper, senior Edward Hay, senior Lisa McNeilly, junior Ollie Wagner, Dr. Joe Gardner, Registrar Sue Ross, and Alumni Rich Perkey '80 and Fred Clapton '77. The proposal will now go before the Council on Campus and Religious Life for consideration.

Terry speaks on brotherhood in Vietnam War
By LAURA GABEL

Wallace Terry, journalist and author of Bloods, spoke on the Vietnam War and brotherhood between blacks and whites last night in Love Auditorium. Accompanying him were Porter Halyburton '63, Vietnam prisoner-of-war, and Colonel Fred Cherry, an Air Force pilot and Halyburton’s cellmate for seven and a half years in Vietnam. Terry’s main point was that “on that front line there was a kind of brotherhood established” between people like Halyburton and Cherry, where color was not important. He explained that this brotherhood demonstrates “blacks and whites supporting each other.”

Bloods tells the story of how Cherry, the first high-ranking black officer to be captured by the North Vietnamese, was tortured and beaten for 93 days by captors seeking a propaganda coup. Halyburton, Cherry's cellmate in Cu Loc prison, saved Cherry's life by nursing both his physical and psychological wounds. After a film presentation which included excerpts from the individual portraits which make up Bloods, Halyburton and Cherry spoke about how their friendship enabled them to survive the trauma of the Vietnam War. It did not matter that one was black and the other was white, they said. Cherry said he hoped that young people of Davidson and everywhere would overlook color as he and Halyburton had.

Terry said that Americans should support their veterans: “If we would emulate the brotherhood of Hally and Fred and love each other, through adversity, it would be great. Those who fought the war were noble indeed.”

“I think it all began for me as a writer who would one day get involved in a book about war in a library in Indianapolis, where I encountered Homer's Iliad,” Terry said. Terry said that he first tried to forge a book from his experiences in both the civil rights movement and the Vietnam War. He was not able to convince any publishers to accept his work until he accepted the advice of a Random House editor who suggested that he write an “oral history” of the black experience in Vietnam. He proceeded to produce a best-seller. Terry said he felt that “the black soldiers seemed to be carrying greater burdens than others,” that they were told that Vietnam was not their war, and that they heard people telling them to go home and fight racism in their

Continued on page 3

Wallace Terry