The Davidsonian. Friday, October 10, 1986

Opinions

Fraternities not perfect but should not be eliminated

Leland Park

Pardon me while I speak a word in behalf of fraternities at Davidson! I guess this is unusual for someone
on the payroll, but I belonged to a fraternity when I was a student here in the late 50’s and
early 60’s (it has since folded), and I have been a faculty advisor for three fraternities at Davidson during my
20 years of post-studentdom. I also proudly state that I have been a faculty member of the College Union Board
and its Policy Committee for many years. These various vantage points, I hope, give me some perspective on the current
discussions.

The system in the “olden days” was nearly a total one. It was harsh, too. We had rush in the
first five days of school. Probably 95 percent of us joined one of the 12 national fraternities around the court.
With the beginning of the second semester, freshmen then ate their meals at the fraternity houses, and the remaining men
were left to eat in the College Union. That’s all there was then. There were no other options. And for
some, it was a lonely existence to be “left in the Union.” Professor Sam Maloney served as the faculty advisor
once for a group which tried to organize yet a 13th fraternity, Lingle Manor it was called. But, alas, it
did not get off the ground for a variety of reasons. The hue and cry was loud and long for
the five percent who, by their choice or by the choice of the 12 fraternities, were not members. You’d recognize
the comments and the cries, for you hear the same thing today. It became the cause célèbre of the day.
“Let’s eliminate fraternities,” they said. There was no other alternative offered. And the fraternities did not defend themselves well at
all.

Regardless of the reasons (and that could be a full issue of The Davidsonian itself), the system faltered. Yet fraternities
did continue, or at least some of them did, and they have come back, not only at Davidson, but all
around the country. Membership is up, and chapters are flourishing.

There is a basic reason why fraternities flourish: people like to be with other people with whom they are congenial.
Davidson students are selected because they are good at academics, they are good in sports, they have something to offer
the community in which they live, they like to have a good time socially, and they enjoy doing these things
with others of like interests with whom they are personally congenial. Fraternities began for this reason, they continue for this
reason. If they did not exist, they would be invented. Don’t think for a minute that if fraternities did not
exist that everyone would mix and mingle in the Commons at dinner time. No sir! I'd look for Sam or
George or ole Whatshisname and the others who are going to play flickerball with me this afternoon. I’d look for
those guys who are going to volunteer to work at the Day Care Center Thursday afternoon. And when it came
time to have a beer (if I were 21; that is), I'd look for those same guys, since it was
with them that I have much common ground, common experiences, and common values. I would have a quasi-fraternity, a group
of men getting together for camaraderie because of common interests and because I enjoy their company.

The national affiliation is not the be-all-and-end-all, but it is mighty important. It offers continuity of tradition, values, influence for
good. It offers praise when it is appropriate, it levies penalties when that is appropriate. There is a standard which
is established to which all strive.

The advent of women on this campus was a wonderful change. I like it! And I share the pride they
have in the women’s houses which they have developed: Rusk, Warner Hall, and Spencer. They are a credit to our
campus. And they are a natural formation, a grouping of people of similar interests, like fraternities. At Davidson, they have
chosen not to be affiliated with a national sorority, and that is fine. That is their option. Similarly, with the
advent of coeducation, co-ed houses have evolved. Mike Stephens said that approximately 170 students eat in two of these. It's
a fine option, and they should be proud of their houses and their contributions to this campus. And that is
their option.

The Vail Commons is a facility which is the envy of every other academic institution I know. And some students,
who do not join fraternities, who do not join Rusk-Warner Hall-Spencer, who do not join the co-ed houses, select to
go there. And it is their option. And now there is a group on campus, over 40 strong, which meets
weekly and is working to organize themselves into a fraternity (Kappa Sigma). They have found a group which they enjoy,
and they want to organize formally. More power to them. And it is their option.

There is something for everyone, and each is a viable and honorable and desirable option. No longer is there five
percent singled out. Today — as opposed to the 60’s — there are options.

My brief, as I said at first, is for the fraternities. Not that they are perfect, they are not. But
they are good and an honorable presence on this campus and in this community. They are not the all-pervasive presence
they were from the 20’s to the 60’s. They no longer enjoy a 95 percent membership among the student body.
In fact, there are about 350 fraternity members on this campus. Since only sophomores, juniors, and seniors can participate fully
in a fraternity (a fraternity man cannot eat at the house until his sophomore year), we are talking about 350
men out of 609 men in these upper three classes. That is only 25 percent of the 1392 member student
body; that is only 57 percent of the men in these three classes. That is a far cry from the
95 percent of the total student body in my day. Yet this group of men has joined together, as any
other group joins together, for common goals, and their activities, by adding members each year, as does any other organization.
They seek new members and invite them to join. If the percentage remains true, 57 percent of the freshmen men
will decide to join a fraternity.this year. Forty-three percent will join the co-ed houses or elect to wait a year
or so (upperclassmen get invitations to join every year) or will decide for a variety of reasons not to join.
I am sure there are disappointed men among the freshmen who do not join a fraternity. They are hardly ostracized,
however. They are not left by themselves in the Commons; they remain with the other freshmen classmates for the entire
year. They continue to be active on campus and in campus organizations. A full life is theirs... if they want
it... as an independent or as a member of one of the co-ed houses or as an organizer of another
group on campus. There are options.

Cries continue to come forth from different corners about the evilness of fraternities. I, quite candidly, am tired of it.
I commend to you Shel Robinson and John McNeill’s excellent rebuttal of the view-from-the-past statement of Steve Soud. They are
right-on-the-money. And I do not believe that Steve Soud’s comments are anything other than the regurgitation of comments of the
60s... trying to tear down the system in the name of the 5 percent (in the 60s) rather than to
build up and improve a system which offers much to so many. Fraternities are not bad nor are they a
bad influence on the Davidson campus. And they deserve to be treated as part of the total package, not singled
out as the perpetual bad guys.

While the college in 1837 had a “Commons,” called then Steward’s Hall, it was not long afterwards, when fraternities came
on campus, that they began offering dining facilities, first in off-campus boarding houses, later on-campus. The college, actually, did not
have any responsibility for providing eating facilities for students. These same fraternities organized most of the social activities on campus,
relieving the college of that duty, also. The contribution to the operation of this college over the years by fraternities
has been considerable.

Today fraternity men are involved in all aspects of this campus and this community. Together they have raised over $90,000
for charitable causes in the last academic year. They are editors of The Davidsonian, president of the SGA, nine are
vice presidents or treasurers or committee chairmen on the Union Board and countless more are active on Union committees; president
of the Y. Student Services Corps as well as other offices in that organization; they are ROTC Cadet Battalion Commanders
and president of Scabbard and Blade; head of the Waterski Club; lead the College Democrats and College Republicans, direct the
Psychology Club; serve as president of classes and as class senators. One is chairman of the Honor Court and is
joined in the administration of the Honor Council by a dozen other fraternity men. There are around a dozen fraternity
men on the varsity soccer team, a dozen-and-a-half (from four fraternities) on the football roster, and several are on the
basketball and tennis rolls.

There are fraternity men who coach at the local YMCA, tutor kids in the elementary school, serve as big brothers,
go bi-weekly to the Huntersville Retirement Home to work with the residents, have clothes drives for Kenya, raise money for
the community center and for the Crisis Assistance Ministry, work with the Davidson Annual Fund Tel-a-thon, and on and on.
For a group of approximately 350 men, 25 percent of the total student body, I would say this is a
mighty impressive contribution to our campus and community.

Having said all of this, I think that there are several proposals which should be considered seriously for the improvement
of Davidson’s social system:

1. Assistant Dean of Students for Patterson Court. This is not a new idea; this type of position existed in
the past. And I hasten to add here that fraternity men, members of the women’s houses, co-ed houses, and independents
have not a better friend-at-court than Dean Will Terry. But there is a limit to how much one person can
do. I propose this assistant dean of students be in charge of promoting all of the houses on Patterson Court.
He would work with the fraternities and the other houses to establish activities, settle common problems, represent the houses to
the administration and the community-at-large. He would work with them administratively to encourage more continuity in leadership and fiscal responsibility
(this was once done by a person hired for this purpose in the Business Office).

2. Faculty Advisors. Every house on the court should be required to have an active faculty advisor. These advisors would
also meet at least once a quarter with the Assistant Dean to share and plan and work out differences which
arise.

3. Patterson Court Council. The college has over the years said that it was not going to serve in loco
parentis. If that is still the policy, then restrictions regarding access to activities of the court should be established by
members of the court, not by a committee whose decisions exceeded its charge and whose membership was not representative of
the whole. If limitations on access are to be, they will be more universally supported if those who carry out
those rules, as with the Honor System, are those who make the rules.

4. Support the Present Organizations. The college should be proud of the fact that there are social organizations of several
varieties on this campus, that each serves a very worthwhile purpose, and that each should be encouraged and supported, whether
they be fraternities, single-sex houses, co-ed houses, or the Commons. If new groups wish to form, they should be fostered
and nurtured if there are enough members to make them economically viable. Each of these groups should be free to
add to its membership in the manner which it chooses (within the college rules of no racial discrimination). If this
variety of opportunities exists and each is a strong alternative, a viable option, then the chances of anyone getting hurt
are minimized.

Davidson College has had fraternities for over one century. Its graduates — those who are now working and whom we
hope will continue to support the college — are an outstanding group. Most of them belonged to fraternities and, of
course, remain interested in them. Now there are additional opportunities for social affiliation, which I applaud. Let’s not eliminate or
injure fraternities at Davidson; let’s help each fraternity and every organization on Patterson Court flourish.

Park is the director of E.H. Little Library.
