Friday, September 26, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Dean of Admissions settles into new job
By ANDREA DIEDRICH

Davidson graduate James P. Hendrix, Jr. ’63 began his duties as the new Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid during
this summer. Hendrix said he plans to spend time listening and getting a feel for the college before developing any
systematic goals of his own for admissions and financial aid. He said he will enforce wholeheartedly the recommendations of the
Task Force on Minority Concerns and work to diversify the student body in terms of minority students.

Hendrix hopes to expand recruiting geographically. Although the main strength will lie in the southeast, he said active recruiting has
begun in California and Texas and plans have been made to strengthen recruiting in the Chicago area. He feels local
alumni associations will be a significant resource in increasing geographic diversity. Hendrix also hopes to work with Dean Rusk Program
director Jack Perry to increase the number of international students at Davidson.

Hendrix believes financial aid policy, particularly regarding merit scholarships, will be a significant issue in the near future. As he
explained, the pool of 18-year-olds has been steadily declining along with SAT scores. The result of these trends is a
decrease in the pool of above-average applicants. Davidson must compete with schools like Duke, Emory, and Wake Forest, all of
which have strong merit scholarship programs. Hendrix said he chose to return to Davidson in part because he was interested
in reentering the field of higher education.

Fall term brings new faculty
By BETSEY BRYAN

Robert Perkins

New member of the English department Robert Perkins received a BA in English and History from the University of Alabama
and a BA in English Language and Literature from Oriel College of Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar. He is
presently working toward his Ph.D. in English at the University of Virginia, where he taught as a graduate student. Perkins
is especially impressed with the Davidson honor code. Although UVa has a similar code, he feels that UVa’s is less
enforceable because of the size of the student body. He said Davidson’s honor code is “a splendid system to live
under because it gives students and faculty so much freedom.” Perkins likes the small-town atmosphere of Davidson and the “creative
fraternization” it fosters between teachers and students, and he said the faculty is “so friendly and so committed to teaching
and research.”

By WENDY DUNN

A new member of Davidson's philosophy department this year is Professor Lee Brown. Brown did most of his undergraduate work
at the University of Florida, and also attended the University of Miami and Hunter College. He completed graduate study in
epistemology and metaphysics at Michigan. Before coming to Davidson, Brown taught at the University of Florida, Siena Heights College, Adrian
College, and most recently at the University of Michigan for six years.

After teaching at Louisiana State University and Western Carolina University, he took a position as chairman of the history department
at a prep school in Dallas and eventually served as academic dean. Just prior to...Coming to Davidson, he served as
headmaster at Greensboro Day School. Hendrix said, “When I visited Davidson, I was extremely impressed by the quality of people
in admissions and financial aid. I also feel President Kuykendall is one of the two or three most exciting presidents
at an institution of higher learning in the country.” Hendrix received his master's and Ph.D. degrees in history from LSU.
He served in the army for two years after graduating from Davidson. His personal interests include reading, backpacking, wilderness trout
fishing, and jogging.

Dean of Admissions James Hendrix

Faculty member Brown’s outside interests include martial arts, holistic medicine, and African and modern dance movement. He is also an
electronics design engineer and spends time studying Eastern metaphysics in a Zen temple in Hawaii. The most refreshing difference he
has found at Davidson is that students are generally brighter and more easy-going than others he has taught. However, he
said that even among Davidson students, there are many who can’t analyze conceptually because they think with their feelings. Brown
believes that one of his most challenging responsibilities is to teach students how to think analytically.

Dr. Ralph Levering

Ralph Levering, a native of North Carolina, returns to his home state after ten years of teaching at Western Maryland
College and more recently, Earlham College, to join the history department. After receiving his BA from UNC-Chapel Hill, he attended
Princeton and received his MA and Ph.D. in diplomatic history. The author of five books on diplomatic history, Levering’s special
interest is the relationship between public opinion, the media, and foreign policy; he tries to examine the effect of sensationalism
on international events such as the Nicholas Daniloff affair. Levering is quite impressed with Davidson in general and students in
particular; he believes they’re “respectable, open-minded, intelligent, and talkative,” and he enjoys the class discussions they initiate.

Dr. Steven Lonsdale

Dr. Steven Lonsdale comes to Davidson as a classics instructor with an AB in classical archaeology from Harvard and a
Ph.D. in classics from Cambridge. For the past few years, he has taught full-time at Gettysburg College and part-time in
Columbia University’s summer session in classics. His first love is Homer, especially The Iliad and The Odyssey. He is also
interested in the relationship between Greek art and religion, and he wrote a book on the origins of dance in
mythology. Dr. Lonsdale’s first impression of Davidson students is very positive. He says they are “unfailingly polite, eager to learn,
and well-prepared, especially the freshmen in Latin.”

Davidson College Student Store

Good through Oct. 4.

Standard Value

12 Exposure $1.97
24 Exposure $3.77
36 Exposure $4.97
