Features The Davidsonian Friday, January 24, 1986 5

Funny Feet combines art of ballet with comedy

By EDDIE McGEE

“Let’s face it. Dance is ridiculous,” admits Bob Bowyer, Artistic Director and choreographer for the American Ballet Comedy. “The first
time I saw someone do a pirouette, I wanted to laugh.” The audience in Love Auditorium had the chance to
do just that during the American Ballet Comedy’s performance of Funny Feet Wednesday evening. The Company presented a dozen or
so sketches full of vaudevillesque antics, lavish costuming and props, and spectacular dancing.

Bowyer spoke of his company’s combination of humor and dance as “a good and successful alternative to traditional dance.” Bowyer
said that dance is often so serious and when combined with humor, which is “by nature fun, enjoyable, but meaty,”
dance becomes a more appealing performance for general audiences while satisfying those more knowledgeable about dance as an art form.

A piece called “Menuto,” a prime example of the company’s playful dancing and bizarre use of costume, followed shortly after
the opening number. An amorous couple danced a love duet to the music of Mozart. Any semblance to convention stopped
here. Each dancer wore red and hot pink tights and a headpiece bearing a huge set of lips. One would
only wonder whether the two were Spielberg’s latest cute creations. Though it would be unlikely to discover this pair of
extra-terrestrial (or subterrestrial) lovers on a Davidson park bench, the hammed-up expression of love emotion was all too characteristic to
be non-human.

The show was full of further evidence of Mr. Bowyer’s whimsical inauguration. “La Domestique Romantique” told the story of a
weary late-night viewer, his Doritos, and the hunger of two life-sized cockroaches. Bowyer’s fascination with the insect motif continued in
“Black Cockroach Pas de Deux,” the story of a caterpillar turning into a butterfly with the help and protection of
a little boy, striving against the cruel, unsavory designs of grown-ups.

“Pas de Trois Pour La Psychologie Contemporaine” was perhaps the most effective number of the evening in its ridicule of
modern dance. Bowyer explained that he has seen myriads of modern dances, depicting the psychological torments of today’s angst-ridden society.
A common practice of this kind of dance is for the dancers to bunch together as though tied in knots.
“I wanted to do the ultimate knot number,” Bowyer said. “They tie that poor girl up so tight they have
to carry her on the plane like that!”

“Faux Pas de Trois” continued the self-mimicking of dance. One male dancer had to support two female dancers, both of
whom did not take too kindly to sharing a male partner. The stage manager himself had to come on stage
to see that the male dancer, exhausted in his double duty, kept his part in the ménage à trois.

The fashion of dance and comedy, Bowyer said, is most successful before audiences in Europe and South America, where there
is “an absolute respect for comedy as a serious art form.” Herein lies the American Ballet Comedy’s success: comedy receives
as equally serious treatment as dance. Based in New York, the Company has been touring nationally and internationally since 1978.
Appearances have included over 100 cities in the United States and regular tours abroad in such places as Paris, Rome,
Berlin, Africa, Israel, the Caribbean, Canada, Germany, and Holland.

What Bowyer spoke of as his love of the “phantasy of costume,” his company could have in no better way
demonstrated than in “The Big Ballet of the Sky.” A recent arrival for candidacy into heaven receives last-minute temptation from
none other than the devil himself. The might of the Lord shines through in the form of a gargantuan arm,
stretching nearly half the length of the stage. Mysterious are God's ways. His remark that the American Ballet Comedy can
do as well in most every place, since humor does not cross cultural boundaries.

One act plays present theatre of the absurd

By BILL BUGG

“I do admire you for decorating the children’s graves, even if they’re not dead.” — Mabel, Lemonade

“Take a circle, caress it and it will turn vicious.” — Mr. Smith, The Bald Soprano

Theatre of the absurd: it can be so bizarre as to eliminate even the most fundamental presuppositions of reality, thus
becoming a brain-teaser for the audience, or it can by destroying notions of logic raise...Questions of life and death, truth
or falsehood. Davidson College Theatre Department’s "Lemonade" and "The Bald Soprano" illustrated both possibilities in last night’s Workshop II productions
(also showing tonight at 7 p.m.).

"Lemonade," by James Prideaux, depicted Shakespearean themes of appearance versus reality in absurd but often humorous and sometimes very serious
terms. A middle-aged woman, with a pitcher of lemonade and a sign reading “LEMONADE 2¢,” runs into another woman with
a pitcher of lemonade and a sign reading “LEMONADE 2¢,” and by coincidence, the two happen to know each other.
Surprised by each other’s presence in such a low occupation, the two begin to gossip on the latest news.

Edith, played by Beth Parker, complains of her husband and of her dead children’s caskets which fell apart on the
way to the cemetery. “Anyway, we had the lowest grade caskets you could get... I didn’t say anything, but I
was really annoyed with Herbert... When it comes to funeral time, he doesn’t care what he sticks in the ground.”
Mabel, portrayed by Allison Rose, fusses about her husband (“Raymond said I dropped children like a Chinese peasant. He said
all I needed was a clear day and a rice paddy”) and her children (“With my brood it was difficult.
Marilyn cross-eyed and Randolph a cripple”).

After setting up the backgrounds of both characters, Prideaux reverses everything. The children of Edith are not dead, Marilyn is
not cross-eyed, and Randolph is not a cripple. The way in which the plot twists upon revealing the lies, and
the absurdity and humor of the gossip, reveal deep questions in the midst of the preposterous: What is true or
false? Which is more potent, the imagination or cold facts, appearance or reality?

The direction of Mary Hill and Callie Hammond was convincing. From Edith’s flapping her arms as she described her husband
“screaming and flailing his arms” to Mabel’s crying out “Lemonade” to each passing car, the play’s simplicity of staging and
motion effectively contrasted the more complex themes.

If "Lemonade" conveyed any sense of meaning in its absurdity, Eugene Ionesco’s "The Bald Soprano" revealed none. The humorous but
preposterous one-liners, the distorted fables, and the liquidity of the most obvious of truths, built upon each other in an
ingeniously homogeneous way to create quite a brain-teaser, but little more.

Mr. and Mrs. Smith are nestled in their cozy English living room: Mr. Smith (senior Rob Odom) reading the Times,
Mrs. Smith (sophomore Catherine Norton) gossiping about everything under the sun. In the meantime, Mary, the maid (sophomore Anne Winn)
informs them that their guests have arrived, several hours late. While Mr. and Mrs. Martin (junior Stephen Mank and sophomore
Elizabeth Dick) enter, the Smiths hurry out to change clothes. In a ridiculous conversation, the Martins pretend not to know
each other. Upon the re-entry of the Smiths, the conversation breaks down even more, testing the limits of the rational.

A doorbell rings three times; no one is at the door. “Goodness, someone is ringing. There must be someone there,”
exclaims Mr. Smith each time. “Experience teaches us that when one hears the doorbell ring it is because there is
never anyone there,” Mrs. Smith yells angrily. When the doorbell rings a fourth time, the fire chief (sophomore Bob Boyd)
appears. Then a series of parables without messages or fables without morals follows: “Once upon a time another cow asked
another dog: ‘Why have you not swallowed your trunk?’ ‘Pardon me,’ replied the dog, ‘it is because I thought that
I was an elephant.’” The play ends with an exchange of weird out-of-any-possible-context remarks followed by a twist of the
characters’ identities.

The direction of Forrest Williams and Martha Wilson was most successful in the movements and expressions of the actors. Rotating
the seating positions and casting the nuances of each character in stereotypical fashion helped convey the play’s absurdity even further.
But contrary to "Lemonade," the purpose of "The Bald Soprano" was less in revealing the breakdown of logic than in
teasing the audience. And in this endeavor, the play was very effective.
