14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor
Brooke Knight, Executive Editor
Kim Crabtree, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Bill Bugg, Features Editor
Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager
David Maynard, Circulation Manager
Ann Roddey, Production Editor

Friday, February 7, 1986

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Face the Face

The calendar has rolled around again to self-selection time. Hundreds of freshmen will cast their individual ballot for their individual future. The houses they choose, however, will also be affected. Sigma Phi Epsilon joined the court this year, and it will be no doubt interested in what the computer says about who picked which house. The two remaining coed houses will be looking to see if they remain a viable alternative to the single-sex houses, in light of three coed house closings in three years. Spencer will also see if it will be successful enough to carry on its second year of existence.

This time of year means a lot to many people. It seems that it means so much to one group or individual that it caused they, he or she to distribute flyers and signs in Belk dorm telling freshmen to be wary of a “misguided hopeless idea.” The idea the flyers directly refer to is the possibility of a Kappa Sigma fraternity chapter returning to campus. It claims that not self-selecting this year in hopes of joining Kappa Sig limits the freshman’s options. Not so. For a long time of Davidson’s recent history, 12 fraternities existed on campus, and a couple more now wouldn’t hurt the system. The success of Kappa Sig will indeed mean more options for the freshmen — and that is, after all, what self-selection is all about — options.

The authors of the pamphlet are obviously scared that the presence of a new fraternity will change the face of the court. If to change the court is what people want, then so be it. The authors are hiding behind the veil of anonymity — if they are truly fearful of what will happen to the court on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room is the way for them to express their fears, not through pamphlets which cause rumors and undue concern amongst the freshman class.

Congratulations

This paper marks the last regular issue of The Davidsonian for this term. Andy Barron and Brooke Knight will take over as editors in the spring. Good luck!

Letters

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 882-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $13 per year, or $24 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Andy Ball, Laura Batten, David Bearce, Jim Dillon, Keith Finch, Andrea Gross, Heidi Hooker, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, Thomas Nicholson, David Williams

Features Staff: Laura Ballenger, Martha Johnson, Matt Morris

Sports Staff: Edwin Page, assistant sports editor; Mike Adams, Keith Finch

Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Beth Drummond, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, David Petranick

Staff Artist: Richard Cloudt

Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Jim Dillon, Kristin Galloway, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen Keeley, Kara Kooken, Kris Kost, Beth Parker, Kim Robertson, Margaret White, David Williams, Ben Yarborough

Compositors: Doug Kim, Lynda Korfmann, Ann Roddey, David Soud, Sara Strachan, Laure Van Dierdonck

WDAV

To the Editor:

With regard to Keith Finch’s article on WDAV in the Jan. 24 Davidsonian, I did not say, nor did I mean to imply, that the station’s move to new studios away from themain campus is “an unfortunate continuation of de-emphasis upon student involvement in WDAV.” The two have nothing to do with one another. The de-emphasis on student involvement in WDAV bothers me and my father, Hooper Alexander, and to that extent we were both quoted correctly. However, as I believe I told your reporter, I have known since my own employment at WDAV that the station needed roomier facilities, and I did not know of any place on the main campus that would have been suitable. And a point of clarification: I was identified as a disc-jockey for Z100. I am, but on a part-time basis only.

Lex Alexander ’82
Kappa Sig

To the Editor:

In an effort to clear up any misunderstanding that may result from Keith Finch’s presentation of my remarks in last week’s Davidsonian (“Return of Kappa Sigma Proposed”), I would like the opportunity to explain a few issues. While I am president of PAX and my house is my primary concern, I wish to dispel any thoughts and rumors that I am grossly pro-PAX and violently opposed to anything else.

First of all, I am chancellor of the Patterson Court Council and I strongly support all of the court’s houses because they offer an alternative to the Commons with their small group dining and social activities. This is a very important part of Davidson College. Secondly, I have a personal interest in coed houses as a whole. I am grateful that Davidson had an alternative to both the Commons and the single-sex houses that was coed and that offered small group dining.

The main problem hindering a fair interpretation of my comments is that a few of my most important views were excluded. I would like to stress that I view the trend toward single-sex dining as a potential threat to coed dining. My greatest fear is that a third single-sex house coming to the court in two years could cause a coed house to fold. The remaining coed house, rather than grow stronger in its uniqueness, could suffer in its oddness. The incoming freshmen classes would not know the days when coed dining was common and “normal” and would view that coed house as the black sheep of the court. Put simply, there is safety in numbers; I like seeing two coed houses on the court.

Another comment I made that never made its way to the article was my feeling that the eating and social options are there on the court to serve the Davidson student body — and I readily admit that this student body is constantly changing. Patterson Court does not exist solely to serve the interests of the established houses; it also exists for the interests of the students and hence it must be able to change if student interest does, either in the form of a different personality entering a house with a new class or in the form of letting new houses on the court.

I am not opposed to Kappa Sigma; I admit that I am concerned about its return. However, I can honestly state that I have not done anything nor will I do anything to undermine the formation of Kappa Sigma. I worry about its effects on the established houses of the court and about its future. I also wonder about the availability of straightforward information for the interested freshmen. Unfortunately, the only printed information that I know of is the fliers that were distributed on the halls of Belk Monday night. The information on these fliers was negatively biased as well as inaccurate. It is regretful that something like this had to happen now, while self-selection is underway and while changes in both Patterson Court and the self-selection system are being considered. In this tension-filled week of self-selection, I would like to see respect shown for the freshmen who are making their decisions and for Patterson Court as a whole. As every institution does, it may have its difficulties, but we at Davidson are lucky to have it with all the options it offers us.

Janice Evans
PAX president