THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
David Williams, Associate Editor
Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Heidi Hooker, News Editor
Bill Bugg, Features Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Tony Griffin, Advertising Managers
Will Mitchell, Dan Rikard, Circulation Managers
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Dedication

This past Monday the Davidson community lost one of its most respected members, Dr. James B. Woods Jr. ’18. During his 47 years in Davidson, Woods served the college as physician for 27 years, served the town as a general practitioner, and served the community as a friend and benefactor. He died at home of an illness which had confined him since January.

His long career reflected his steadfast devotion to the needs of others. He went beyond merely treating the physical symptoms; he was an interested friend and a concerned member of the community.

“The most important thing is to take care of sick people and try to get them straightened out and back to health. This is more important than money,” Woods once said. His selfless devotion to the ethics of his profession transcended material concerns. Economics professor Charles Ratliff noted that Woods disliked the red tape of federally-funded medical care. “Instead of filling out Medicare forms, he just didn’t charge the poor anything,” Ratliff said.

Woods was raised in China and got his first view of the United States in 1914, when he enrolled in Davidson College. His love of China brought him back there as a missionary after he earned his M.D. degree from the Medical College of Virginia. After six months of intensive language school training in Peking, Woods began a fifteen-year term of duty at a hospital in Chin Kiong.

His work as a missionary was post-graduate training experience, unparalleled by formal schooling. “There were no Chinese doctors about. We treated everything under the sun. I learned more there about medicine than I could have anywhere else,” Woods said. A course he took in London on tropical diseases allowed him to diagnose malaria earlier this year in economics professor Clark Ross.

He took the job as College Physician in 1942. While caring for students, faculty, and staff, Woods also extended his efforts to the community through his private practice. He delivered babies, maintained office hours, and made house calls. He was constantly busy, making as many as seven calls in one night.

Woods’ life was dedicated to service, and from that dedication we can all learn something. He had a strong sense of duty to God, the college, and his profession. He did not live his life for himself, but for others. He was a strong man who made others healthy, both physically and spiritually.

We mourn the loss of Dr. James Woods Jr., but are secure in the fact that his sense of service will remain.

Q. WHICH ARE MORE NUMEROUS?

1. THESE LITTLE POSTERS
2. THE CANDIDATES FOR HONOR COUNCIL
3. THE TEETH IN DEAN TERRY’S MOUTH

HEY! MR. DEAN! IT'S OK. YOU RAN A CLOSE SECOND... BEHIND THE TIE, of course.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $13 per year, or $24 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, David Bearce, Jim Dillon, Keith Finch, Andrea Gross, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, Margot Mims

Features Staff: Andy Ball, assistant features editor, Laura Ballenger, Mark Chen, Lee Eichelberger, Trey Jammes, Martha Johnson, Jenny Livingston

Sports Staff: Darryl Bego, Emil Cekada, Pam Harmann, Susan Wilkins

Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, David Petranick

Staff Artist: Richard Cloudt

Production Staff: Kim Crabtree, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen Keeley, Kris Kost, Kim Robertson, Margaret White, Ben Yarborough

Compositors: Doug Kim, Lynda Korfmann, Laure Van Dierdonck

Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we will adhere to the following guidelines:

- The letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. the Tuesday before the expected publication date.
- The letters must be neatly typed.
- The letters should be signed. You must have a compelling reason if you do not want your name printed with the letter.
- We reserve the right not to print letters which are advertisements, contain inside jokes or off-color slurs, or represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed on the same topic.

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian’s “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community. We adhere to the following guidelines:

- Any opinion should be in to us by 7 p.m. the Monday before publication, unless it is typed on IBM diskette, in which case it is due 5 p.m. Tuesday.
- We accept typed and legibly-written articles only.
- Opinions should be signed. We will only print unsigned ones if there is a compelling reason and the author is known to us (the editors).
- We will not edit opinions for content or style, but for common English usage only. We will inform the author of substantial changes.
- Because of limited space, sometimes we are not able to print all opinions submitted in one issue. We reserve the right to select articles from those we receive for publication. We will attempt to print any withheld article the following week.