Friday, October 24, 1986

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bleacher Seat
By MIKE ADAMS

Watching a Davidson football game certainly can be a frustrating experience. I have seen ten Wildcat games in the last
two years and I have yet to see a victory. (The Cats did beat Wofford last year, but that game
was played in Spartanburg.) Most of the games have not even been close; many in the 50-10 range. I'm a
die-hard fan, though. I go to the games every week expecting to see the Wildcats win — or at least
expecting them to make a close game out of it. And they never do.

There are several reasons for the lack of success Davidson has experienced on the gridiron. There have been injuries to
valuable players. The loss of senior Doug Neil in a beleaguered defensive backfield leaps to mind. There are too many
freshmen starting; the exchange between freshman center Chip Cole and freshman quarterback Peter Hughes led to three fumbles against Lafayette.
The bottom line, however, is that every team the Wildcats play has many players who are bigger, stronger, and faster
than almost anyone Davidson has to offer. Davidson just does not have a good football team, as is reflected in
the won-loss record and the scores of Wildcat games.

But the lack of a good football team does not mean that the Cats do not play good football occasionally.
They do. And when they do, it is worth watching. In just the last two games, the 33-7 loss to
Bucknell and the 51-14 loss to Lafayette, there were several moments when the Cats looked like a good football team.

In the Bucknell game, sophomore running back Bryan Overcash turned in a 69-yard punt return — started by a great
block by junior running back Aaron Edwards — to set up the Cats' only touchdown. That touchdown came when freshman
receiver Shan Teel took away a pass from a Bucknell defender in the back of the end zone. The defender
got to the ball first, but Teel was more determined to end up with it.

The 51-14 score of the Lafayette game may not look pretty on paper, but — believe it or not —
there were some moments when the Cats looked good on the field. Junior linebacker Howard Humphries prevented a sure touchdown
in the first quarter when he ran down a Lafayette running back to make a diving tackle at the 11-yard
line. This may be the only time a Davidson player has caught an opponent from behind all year. Freshman end
Cole Thomason had an all-around good day, registering two quarterback sacks and batting down a pass. Junior Charlie Winborne had
a poor day punting on the whole, but he did get off a beauty in the first quarter. With the
Wildcats trapped at their own five-yard line, Winborne was forced to punt from the back of the end zone. All
he could manage was a 46-yard punt under pressure. Winborne's best moment came as an end/quarterback. After taking a pitch
from Hughes, Winborne lofted a 25-yard touchdown pass to Teel late in the third quarter.

Senior Gary Stewart was the Cats' leading rusher on the day after he rambled 18 yards on a fake punt
to get a first down. Stewart, a defensive back, has carried the ball several times on fakes this year and
they have all been successful. Hughes demonstrated the kind of passing that the Wildcat coaches hope to see a lot
of over the next three years when he orchestrated a 99-yard touchdown drive which he capped with a perfectly thrown,
38-yard scoring pass.

The Cats have made plays like these in every game this year. Unfortunately, they have not made nearly enough of
them and their opponents have made too many. But they don't lay down and die because they are not as
good as the other teams. And they are fun to watch.

Referee troubles mar IMAC games
BY RICK CASE

For the third week in a row, there have been problems with the referees not showing up for games. This
not only inconveniences the teams you are supposed to ref for, but it also erases your team's eligibility for post-season
play. IMAC has been very forgiving of those who have neglected to show up for games, but this policy has
officially ended. If you blow off one game, your team is automatically out of any post-season tournament. If you blow
off two games, your team gets canned and no one will like you, so please honor your responsibilities to referee
games. This goes double for teams such as Drop and Give, Bang Gang, Derbydar, Booze Brothers, and Damned Commanches who
care.afl still eligible for end of the season tournaments due to the divine grace of the IMAC. The score cards
for all games will be placed in the bags on Sunday. In last week's game highlights for Oct. 10th, 11th,
and 12th: The Glubbies, led by Marion Stone, Blanche Quinn, and Stephanie Townsend, cured the Crabs by the score of
18-7. Pika’s number one team, “Between Your Buns,” appears to be pretty well firmed up as they squeezed the Damned
Commanches by a 60-6 score. The Ragis' Trajins went down to Not off the Top of my Head in a
20-13 match which saw strong performances by both Reed Herrero and Bryan Feigenbaum. Warmer Hall tied Deja-Vu 6-6 as Choo
Jones and Allie Baldwin both scored for their respective squads. And for the second straight week, Fletcher Fairey had an
outstanding game as The Students Against Butt Pirates refused to bend over to the 2nd East Beasts. The Students prevailed
21-0. In the most surprising game of last week, the freshmen hall which calls themselves the Buschmen played a great
game against KA Gold. Although the Gold won this contest by the score of 32-27, Anthony McCarron and John Davis
led a potent offensive attack which drove the ball consistently on the Gold's defense. Tailback Michael Holt had a great
game but wished that defensive stopper Sherb Sentelle would overcome his “equipment” problems.

In this week's highlights, Werner Hall went down hard to the Crabs by the score of 20-0, as Wendy Warner
had two touchdowns on intercepted passes. In other games this week, Stob Session climaxed over the First Floorgasms 20-6, Ann
Hicks led the Cream of the Crop over We Be Three 13-0, KA Gold beat Red Wheat Garage Roof 58-35,
Damned Commanches beat the Second East Beasts 19-0, and the Necrophiliacs could find no corpses among the Ragin’ Trajins as
they were defeated by the score of 27-7.

In other IMAC news, look next week for a report on the mixed doubles tournament, and start looking around for
some players to set up an IMAC basketball squad as the season is right around the corner. Rankings will be
out also in next week's installment for the top ten flickerball teams, and a special thanks goes out to all
of the girls’ teams for having done a great job with getting referees for all of their games.

---

Soccer destroys Marshall; falls to South Carolina 5-0

By PERRY MATHEWES

The Davidson soccer team was on both ends of shutouts this week as they defeated Marshall 6-0 Saturday and lost
to South Carolina 5-0 Wednesday. The team's record now stands at 4-1-1. Davidson dominated the Marshall team throughout the game,
outshooting the Herd 20-5. Good ball control and passing kept the action mostly in the Marshall half of the field.

“We played the best first half we've had all year,” coach Charlie Slagle said. Davidson opened the scoring in the
17th minute of the first half. Sophomore forward Tracy Hankins headed the ball across to sophomore forward Mike Friedlander who
sent the ball home for the first goal. The second goal came just three minutes later when the Davidson offense
led by Hankins pressured a Marshall fullback into chipping the ball over the goalkeeper for an own goal. In the
39th minute, Friedlander pushed the ball past the diving goalkeeper to junior midfielder Chip Wittmann who backheeled the ball into
the net for the third goal. Wittmann added to the tally at the start of the second half when Friedlander
took the ball down to the endline then crossed back to Wittmann who drilled the ball into the open goal.
With five minutes left in the game, junior Craig Mattison headed in another goal to increase the lead to 5-0.
Senior fullback Chris Jones had the assist. Two minutes later, freshman Rob Vest fed Friedlander the ball who easily beat
the goalkeeper for his second goal of the game. Junior goalkeeper Josh Budde got his first shutout of the season.

The South Carolina game did not go nearly as well for Davidson. USC scored twice in the first half and
three times in the second half. Davidson played fairly well against USC, the eighth-ranked team in the nation, but mistakes
hurt them. South Carolina’s many corner kicks and Davidson's missed marking assignments allowed USC to find the weaknesses in the
Wildcat defense.

“We had a lot of chances,” Slagle said, “but you can't make mental mistakes against a team that good.” Due
to a canceled game, the team has the next week off which they will use to prepare for the final
push of the season.

---

Mike Friedlander in action against South Carolina
Robert Nesbit
