Wednesday, December 10, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bobby Vinton isn’t in this Blue Velvet
By PRISCILLA FAUCETTE

Weird, bizarre, disturbing, disgusting, and cool are some of the most oft-heard descriptions of David Lynch’s new film Blue Velvet.
If anything, this definitively different film elicits strong reactions. It tells the story of Jeffrey Beaumont (Kyle MacLachlan), who one
day finds a human ear on the ground and then sets out on his own to solve the mystery. He
soon becomes both voyeur and participant in a world which includes kidnapping, rape, and various other crimes.

Outtakes:
By BRUCE PLOURDE

STAR TREK IV

The one all of us trekkies have been waiting for, Star Trek IV, finally hit the theaters Nov. 26. Loyal
fans, I tell you the long queues in cold rain are worth it. Even if you’ve never heard of the
Genesis project or Bones or even Vulcans, you should go as a lover of science fiction.

While the exiled crew of the USS Enterprise makes repairs on their newly acquired Klingon vessel, Spock rejuvenates his memory
banks. The computers even try to give him a taste of humanity, but he does not seem to understand. When
they return to Earth to face court-martial, a probe resembling the Doomsday Device with a suspended soccer ball invades the
solar system. Once again, without a thought to the contrary, they rush off to save their planet from destruction.

This movie, unlike the previous three, has no real villain. The probe, as we see, does not act with hostility.
Arguably the most hostile character in the film awaits Kirk and Spock on a bus in San Francisco in the
20th Century, in the form of a punker blasting the song “I Hate You” at them. Their excursions about the
city show the cast at their comic best — subtle, serious, and terribly naive for time travelers. Dangers are resolved
through feats of unselfishness and affection. Old relationships are renewed, old

Its a Wonderful Life
By PRISCILLA FAUCETTE

The Frank Capra Christmas favorite It’s a Wonderful Life is a touching story, appealing to all ages, and worth seeing
every Christmas season. The plot concerns George Bailey (James Stewart), a very lovable but frustrated man, who grows up dreaming
about leaving his small American hometown of Bedford Falls. Most of his life, from childhood to his present 39 years,
is seen in flashback. It seems as though George goes through a series of “near-misses” in that, just before he
leaves for college, Europe, or his honeymoon, something unexpected happens to prevent his plans.

Although George always sacrifices his dreams for others, he remains happy with his wife (Donna Reed) and their four children.
His sense of entrapment and dissatisfaction arises from a responsibility to protect his family and townsmen from the heartless, greedy
banker and all-around local meany, Henry F. Potter (Lionel Barrymore). One day, something so terrible happens that George becomes desperate
and seriously questions his “mispent” life. George’s guardian angel, Clarence (Henry Travers), allows him to see life in a different
perspective: what it would be like had he not lived. The result? Well, go see the movie!

Yes, It’s a Wonderful Life can be considered “corny,” “unrealistic” and typically Capra, which is principally why this film succeeds
40 years after its original release. Stewart is excellent and subtly witty. Reed, Barrymore, and Travers also give great performances.
It is a wonderful and poignant comedy, which deals with some very serious questions concerning small-town life and life in
general. Even the most typically indifferent cinema-goer will be brought to tears.

There will be plenty of opportunities to see It’s a Wonderful Life on T.V. as well as in color. But
take advantage of Love Auditorium’s “big screen experience; it makes adifference. Showings (in black and white, of course) will be
Thursday and Friday at 8 p.m. Seasons Greetings from a wide-eyed, curious boy-next-door who is perversely(?) attracted to Dorothy and
her environment. In fact, one finds inconsistencies in all of the characters’ personalities. Which just goes to show you that
“the world is a very strange place,” a theme reiterated throughout the film. Imposing close-ups, contrasting deep colors, unexpected music,
and surrealistic sets are successfully combined to create a very eerie and dream-like atmosphere, though obviously contrived. Both the evil
and idealized worlds are exaggerated depictions; habits are reasserted and our gallant star trippers reunite to begin where they left
off. But you won’t go just to see the old back-through-time plot; you'll go to see just who George and
Gracie are, and how they save the earth from eternal perdition.

THE COLOR OF MONEY

Martin Scorsese’s latest movie stars Paul Newman and Tom Cruise. As in The Sting, Newman is a con artist, but
to a lesser degree. He earns big money as a liquor salesman and has apprentices who hustle pool and give
him a percentage of the profits. He meets up with Tom Cruise and, finding his game impeccable, begins to work
on him. Cruise, young and naive, falls for Newman's pitch, and they set out with Cruise's girlfriend to work their
way across the country to the big match in Atlantic City, cleaning up at every pool hall along the way.
Somewhere along the line, Newman reconsiders his values. A pool player himself once whose game “ended before it really began,”
he gets caught up in the pure, unadulterated love Cruise has for the game. He contrasts this with his own
approach to pool, which is to make the most money no matter what. Cruise, on the other hand, slowly learns
what his mentor had tried to tell him all along, that “money won is twice as sweet as money earned.”

Intriguing as this movie might sound, it is not. The actors give what you expect: Newman, his good looks, subtly
rough voice, and charm; Cruise, his boyishness and immaturity. But the characters do not mesh and the movie does not
work. When Newman reaches down to turn on the radio in his huge Cadillac in the shady part of town,
one half-expects Frank Sinatra. Instead, behind a loud beat, Don Henley asks, “Who owns this place?” Were this a movie
filled with action, the music would be fitting. But in this movie of dialogue and facial expressions, the music is
another example of the director’s apparent shortsightedness. Scorsese tries to bring too many elements into this movie without illustrating any
of them well.

NO MEMBERSHIP FEES

Turn your living room into a private screening room when you rent the latest movies. No membership fees. Large variety
of movies in stock. New movies arriving weekly. $2.50 for one day. $4.00 for 4 days. Rent 2, get one
free...S. M. Tues. VCR rental machines and VCR player from us. Special weekend rates.

Lynch also does a great job of evoking shock and suspense. One may justly criticize Blue Velvet for its occasionally
weak script and over-acted performances (especially Dern) and for contradictory and inexplicable elements which are introduced into the plot. These
contradictions are probably intentional and sometimes too obvious. The spectator often leaves the theatre nervous and confused, thinking nothing more
than “Wow, that was a cool film,” or “Gross, that was terrible.” I can’t recommend Blue Velvet to everyone, because
then you'd get mad at me if you hated it, and this film appears to be one of those potentially
hateable films, principally for its violence and sexual frankness. (If you were shocked and disgusted by A Clockwork Orange, don’t
go.) Despite its few inconsistencies, I found the film to be a funny, scary, sensual, thought-provoking, and captivating work. Blue
Velvet continues to play in Charlotte at Park 51 Cinema and Town Cinema 6.

3 LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU

Cornelius — Hwy 196 (One block North of Hager's Ferry Commons)
Denver — Hwy 6 (Across from Old Triangle Elementary School)
Davidson — Main St. the Town Square

Hours: Mon-Thurs 10-9, Fri-Sat 10-10, Sun 1-6

FIRST UNION Main St. Davidson
