Friday, September 19, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Social life adjusts to new regulations
By ANDY BARRON

In response to North Carolina raising the legal drinking age to 21, Davidson's new social policies concerning freshmen and alcohol
on Patterson Court took effect last week. And while no serious problems with either regulation occurred, students, faculty, and administrators
continue to take a “wait and see” stance on the new policies.

Both the restriction from Patterson Court for freshmen and the new alcohol policy were developed by committees and approved by
the Council of Campus and Religious Life last spring. The Patterson Court Selection Study Committee submitted a proposal, amended by
the CCRL, that included two major restrictions concerning freshmen on Patterson Court:
1) That freshmen will not be allowed to attend Court functions on or off campus for the first five weeks
of fall term.
2) During the second five weeks of fall term, freshmen will be allowed to participate in service projects sponsored by
the houses, selected meals, and weekend functions.

The new alcohol policy concerning Patterson Court, submitted by the Patterson Court Council and approved by the CCRL, requires houses
to serve alcohol downstairs to those having received a stamp after showing proper identification at the top of the stairs.

Senior Dan Murrey, who chaired the selection committee, said his committee originally recommended a seven-week restriction from Patterson Court for
freshmen. He said his committee felt homecoming was for alumni and not an appropriate time for “the first big rush
of freshmen.” Senior and SGA President Mark Sandy, a member of CCRL, said he felt the CCRL thought seven weeks
was being too “paternalistic” and decreased the Court restriction to five weeks.

The goals of the freshmen Court restrictions include unity in the freshmen class and giving freshmen a chance to get
settled before facing the pressures of selecting. “First of all it will slow the tempo down in the freshmen life,”
Dean of Students Will Terry said. “It will give freshmen a chance to get together with members of their class,
have some study time, do campus activities and get acclimated before feeling pressure.” Terry also hoped that freshmen would get
involved in service activities so that “association with a house isn't entirely based on parties.”

Concerning the new Court alcohol policy, Terry said he felt the new procedures were working well and praised the PCC
for the way it dealt with the new drinking law. Senior Mike Holt, president of KA, said he felt the
alcohol policy was working. “As I see it, the alcohol policy is designed to protect the liable individuals in a
house,” Holt said. “The goal of the policy — to keep people under 21 from entering the drinking area —
seems to be working.” Holt added that people under 21 were still getting plenty to drink through individuals taking it
on themselves to provide underage drinkers with alcohol.

Sandy said student involvement in both new policies was important. “One of the best things about the Patterson Court Selection
Committee was that the committees making the proposals and granting approval all had a majority of students,” he said.

The new social regulations have increased the Union’s involvement in Davidson’s social calendar, especially for freshmen. “We've been trying to
convince everybody that the drinking issue isn’t that big a deal,” senior Lucinda Kellam, union board president, said. “We've talked
to hall counselors, freshmen, fraternities, and eating houses and said that just because the drinking age went up, social activities
on campus aren’t dying. We've been trying to program events that don’t need alcohol where freshmen and upperclassmen can get
together and have a good time.”

Vice president Williams begins new job
By ANDREA DIEDRICH

Robert C. Williams, new dean of the faculty and vice president for academic affairs, said he accepted the position in
part because he was “struck by the sense of mission, sense of purpose, and sense of commitment toward education” found
here. With a BA from Wesleyan University, and experience as a professor at Williams College, he is committed to the
liberal arts. “Education for leadership strikes me as what Davidson is about rather than training for specialized careers,” Williams said.
About his move to Davidson he said, “It was a reaffirmation of my faith in the liberal arts.”

As chairman of the Education Policy Committee, Williams hopes to examine the entire curriculum to evaluate what Davidson should require
in order to fully educate its students. Williams said he recognizes the importance of area requirements but sees the need
for greater latitude in fulfilling them because of the overlapping of disciplines. He plans to encourage more student independence and
research. He hopes to strengthen the laboratory sciences, the development of quantitative reasoning, and foreign language study. He sees “technological
literacy” as a possible requirement for graduation but not necessarily computer literacy. Although he believes in supporting the students in
learning to use computers, he said, “I don’t believe computing is essential to a liberal arts education as mathematics is.”Williams
also plans to examine the possibility of changing the calendar system to a semester or 4:1:4 system. He said, “The
way we should structure education is with the knowledge that people learn and people teach best at different rates in
different fields of study. There is no natural reason for classes that meet every day.” As dean of the faculty,
Williams is the chief representative of the faculty to the administration and as vice president for academic affairs he is
the chief representative of the administration to the faculty. He believes the most important duty required by the office is
to “recruit, evaluate, and promote the best faculty we can find. Unless Davidson has first-rate faculty, it can’t be a
first-rate college.”

Williams’ other responsibilities include advising the president on matters of tenure and promotion, chairing the Faculty Study and Research Grants
Committee, and attending meetings of the Board of Trustees. Williams received his AM in Russian Studies and PhD in History
from Harvard University. Just prior to coming to Davidson he was Professor of History and Dean of University College at
Washington University in St. Louis. Williams is not currently teaching, but he hopes to teach a seminar on the Manhattan
Project and courses in Russian history. He is married to Ann B. Kingman who spent 11 years performing medical research
and would like to pursue fashion design, and he has three children.

Union Director William Brown feels the Union's responsibility is changing. “Over the last several years we’ve seen ourselves as partners
with the Court in providing social options,” he said. “We've never misled ourselves to think we are the only social
outlet. However, with freshmen, if we aren't providing things to do, no one is.” And what do the freshmen think?
Most aren’t worried about Patterson Court being off limits simply because they don’t know what Davidson is like with Court
parties. “I don’t think it’s that big a deal,” freshman Leigh Hall said. “I think of it (the Court) as
something for us to look forward to doing. It’s not really a deprivation since we don’t know what we’re missing.”
Freshman Lisa Branch said, “I haven’t had a lack of things to do. Why worry about things that you can’t
do?”

Minnich speaks on feminism in today’s world
By DAVID WILLIAMS

“The relationship of females to schooling is one that is having very serious consequences,” Dr. Elizabeth Minnich told about 50
Davidson students Monday in a forum sponsored by the Women’s Concerns Committee. Minnich, a graduate professor specializing in feminist scholarship,
said: “Women are brought up to take too much credit and also to take too much blame” for their successes
and failures. She said that a woman who takes credit for “getting the opportunity to move into a high-level job
may really be there because the women’s movement pushed it. And if the women’s movement goes away, we'll lose it.”
At the same time, Minnich said, “if a woman doesn’t understand sexism and racism, then she will take too much
blame” for her failures. “If you don’t know about the structures that have an impact on your career,” she said,
“and you're not promoted or paid more when others are, you’re liable to say it’s your fault, when it really
isn’t.”

Minnich noted that humankind tends to be divided “into fragmented little groups as humans and non-humans. The norm remains white,
European male.” She said, “If you show people a picture of a room filled with people doing various things, and
if you look and it’s filled with white men, it’s people. If the room is filled with white women, it’s
women, and with black men and women, it’s black people.” Minnich emphasized the importance of women’s studies in the classroom.
“Unless your classes regard feminist scholarship, they are utterly inadequate and outdated,” she said. She added: “People will almost always
come away from their first immersion in women’s studies and say, ‘Why talk about women?’ Yet they never say, ‘Why
talk about men?’ We must become aware that we have developed women’s studies over the past 15-20 years, against millenniums
of human studies that focus mainly on men. That’s hardly overdoing it,” she said. “We can’t talk about humans unless
we talk about the other 51 percent of humankind.”

Minnich said that many women have had to assert themselves more and become more independent simply in order to survive.
“If the safe thing to be was quiet, well-behaved, pleasing, and counting on that support (from men), the numbers of
women in poverty and the number of middle-class women who use tranquilizers would not be so high.” Minnich received her
Ph.D. in philosophy from the New School in New York. She is a professor at the Union Graduate School and
is a regular contributor to scholarly journals. She is currently reviewing high school and college curriculums in the humanities to
provide more equal treatment of women in academic studies.
