Sports

Rucker and Himes excel to start season

By PERRY MATHEWES

The Davidson basketball team opened its season with a roar on Nov. 29, beating the University of the South, 85-58, but dropped two battles with ACC opponents, a 75-60 decision to Wake Forest and a 95-65 humbling at the hands of Duke.

The Wildcats had little difficulty in the first half of the Sewanee game as they pulled away to go into the locker room at 33-23. The Cats had some trouble getting started up for the first five minutes of the second half, but then junior forward Jeff Himes scored six straight points and senior guard Chris Heineman poured in ten points of his own to allow the Wildcats to cruise to a victory.

Wake Forest’s Dec. 3 victory showcased the new three-point line. The Deacons, behind the hot shooting of Tyrone Bogues, defeated the Cats 75-60. Playing a tight zone defense, the Cats packed the middle and forced the Deacons to shoot from the outside. Unfortunately for the Cats, the Wake players were hitting almost everything in the first half; they shot 67.9 percent from the field and were six for ten from beyond the three-point line. With Wake hitting their shots, Davidson found itself playing catch-up the whole game. Despite good performances from junior guard Derek Rucker, who had 20 points and 7 rebounds, and Himes, who had 16 points, they could not do it. Even when Wake cooled off in the second half, the 15-point lead they built in the first half proved to be too much.

The Wildcats traveled to Durham Monday to take on another ACC foe, Duke. The Blue Devils seemed to be pulling away when they took a 15-10 lead seven minutes into the game. The Cats, however, came back with Himes and senior forward Ace Tanner scoring two baskets each to give Davidson an 18-15 lead with ten minutes left in the first half. Before Davidson could turn around, Duke had regained the lead, scoring ten points before the Cats could respond with a basket. Duke ran away from the Wildcats, gradually increasing the lead to end the first half with a 46-28 score. Davidson never got closer than 15 points in the second half, as Duke coasted to victory. As in the Wake Forest game, Duke had accurate shooters, hitting 63.5 percent from the field compared to Davidson’s percentage of 45.8. Again, most of the Cats' offensive power came from Himes and Rucker, who had 22 and 20 points respectively. No other Davidson player scored in double figures.

The Cats rely heavily on Rucker, who averages 22.3 points per game, and Himes, averaging 22 points per game. Himes also leads the team in rebounding with seven per game. Behind him are Tanner and Rucker with less than five boards a game. The biggest problem to date is the lack of a big man in the center. Junior Mike Gynn started the first two games of the season, but coach Bobby Hussey has opted for sophomore Bill Sellers, and his extra three inches, for the last two starts. Neither one, however, has contributed effectively and this could prove to be a problem in future games.

Davidson’s next game is tonight in Johnston Gym as the Cats host Erskine College at 7:30. Saturday they take on UNCC in Charlotte in the “Battle for the Hornets’ Nest.”

Davidson overcomes sluggishness to top Wofford

By BOYD COGGINS

The Davidson Wildcats overcame a sluggish first half Saturday night to defeat the Terriers of Wofford by the score of 81-74. Leading the way in the comeback were juniors Jeff Himes and Derek Rucker who scored 31 and 27 points, respectively. The victory pushed the Cats to 2-1 on the season.

The Cats grabbed the opening tip and promptly jumped to a 2-0 lead on senior Ace Tanner’s alley-oop jam off a pass from senior Chris Heineman. Davidson increased its lead to 5-0 when Rucker canned a three-point shot from the left side of the key. However, Wofford roared back as senior Matt Mayes drilled two straight three-pointers to put the Terriers ahead 6-5. The Cats regained the lead at 9-8 before Wofford ran off 11 straight points to take a 10-point lead. The Cats fought back on three Rucker jump shots and a layup by Himes to cut the deficit to 19-17 with 10 minutes left in the half. The Terriers continued to hold their slight edge until the Cats outscored Wofford 12-2 to take a 42-37 lead with 50 seconds left in the half. The key to this outburst was a stifling full-court man-to-man press which forced several turnovers.

Strengthened wrestling team starts season

By MARK HARRIS and SUSAN WILKINS

While most of us watched football and gorged ourselves this Thanksgiving holiday, the Davidson wrestling team was hard at...Work preparing for the upcoming ‘vanles season. Under the direction of head coach Tom Oddo, the team is well on its way toward becoming a Southern Conference contender. Oddo appointed senior John Lay and junior Tim Heinze as co-captains. According to Heinze, “This year’s team shows great potential. The team is solid, and all weight classes are filled, especially the lower weights which have been weak over the past few years.”

Oddo worked hard recruiting this year. The Wildcat team has introduced five new wrestlers into the lineup. Starting at 118 pounds this year is freshman Holme Oltrogge from Texas. Oltrogge is making a tremendous jump from his wrestling weight in high school of 98 pounds. In high school, Oltrogge placed second in the prep school state tournament. His strength is his quickness, and if he can overcome his weight jump, he will have a good year. At 126 pounds is senior Michael Adams. Adams is a third-year starter for the Wildcats.

Coming off a poor year, Adams hopes to show improvement. The 134-pound category is filled by freshman Bruce Newsome, also from Texas. Newsome was a teammate of Oltrogge in high school. His strength is the cross-body ride. Sophomore transfer Matt Merrill wrestles at the 142-pound class. He did not wrestle as a freshman at the University of Florida, but is very strong. His specialty is the single leg takedown.

Returning captain Lay is starting for the Cats for his fourth year. Even though Lay missed part of the season with a broken leg, he won the Charlie Parker award for most valuable wrestler in 1986. As a junior, Lay placed third in the Washington and Lee tournament, which he won as a freshman. Sophomore Sherb Sentell and Mike Hood start for the Wildcats at 158 pounds. Sentell wrestled last year.

The Cats quickly turned into points. Junior Dean Keener led the surge with a 13-foot jump shot and a three-point bomb. Rucker then made two steals in the backcourt which he converted into easy layups. Freshman Maurice Gray also contributed to the scoring barrage with a three-point play. However, Wofford did not give up. The Terriers finished the first half by scoring the last six points on a layup by Mayes and four free throws by Rice to take a 43-42 lead into the dressing room.

The Cats reeled off six straight points on three baskets by Himes to take a 48-43 lead to open the second half. The Cats continued to hold the lead by playing a tough man-to-man defense which took Wofford out of its offensive game plan. Mayes, who scored 21 first-half points, was shut down by the defensive play of Heineman who denied him the ball for most of the second period. Mayes was 5 for 5 from the three-point line at halftime but connected on only 1 of 4 for the rest of the game. He finished with a game-high 33 points. Heineman was also a main force on offense throughout the game as he contributed eight assists. He repeatedly hit Himes, Rucker, and Tanner for easy baskets when the Terrier defense collapsed on him to prevent a three-point field goal.

With fifteen minutes left in the game and Davidson up 52-49, the Cats went on a nine-point scoring spree. Himes started the scoring with a three-point play after he got behind the defense and was fouled as he slam dunked. He hit the free throw and the lead was 55-49. Junior Mike Gynn next added a layup off a pass from Tanner. Himes and Rucker finished the scoring run with two more layups behind the Wofford defense.

Wofford continued to battle the Cats as they cut the lead to three points at 69-66 with over four minutes left in the game. However, this was as close as they would get. Himes and Rucker then took over to score the Wildcats’ last 12 points. Himes hit a bank shot from the left side of the lane. He followed this with a layup off a pass from Heineman and a free throw. Rucker canned the last seven Wildcat points as he knocked in a ten-foot jump shot from the left baseline, hit a free throw, and scored two fast break layups off missed three-point shots by Wofford.

For the game, the Cats shot an excellent 54 percent from the field. The defense was also outstanding as the Cats caused 22 Wofford turnovers and made eleven steals. The Cats must continue their fine shooting and tough defense if they hope to defeat Duke in Durham Monday night and Erskine Wednesday night at Johnston Gym. Junior Jeff Himes eyes the basket.