Opinions The Davidsonian Friday, October 10, 1986

Co-ed eating houses suffer biased view
Mike Stephens

When thumbing through this year’s Wildcat Handbook, a publication designed to “help (freshmen) get a glimpse of what (they) will need to know when they join the rest of us on campus,” I came upon an article by Allen Compton, '88, titled “Social Life.” Mr. Compton’s article, though claiming to give an overview of the college/Patterson Court social system, presents an extraordinarily limited view of Patterson Court social life. Based upon Compton’s observations, the only worthwhile outlets available to the socially inclined freshman are within the “... Patterson Court fraternity system.” In Compton’s view, to be social at Davidson one must belong to a single-sex eating house. He describes membership in such an organization as “exclusive” and “fortunate.”

To be fair to Mr. Compton, he does include the all-female eating houses in the “fraternity” system. He never once refers to the self-selection process, preferring instead the term “rush,” and he declares that “there are two houses on the court with open membership.” While Compton presents a widely accepted view of the Davidson social picture, his presentation of co-ed dining on Patterson Court is, in a word, wrong.

When Davidson adopted the system of self-selection in the early 1970s, membership in Patterson Court houses no longer prescribed to the traditional system of rush/bid. The college began accepting women for enrollment, and the Court had to change to include them. With the change, several houses were forced off the Court, with SPE and FI moving off campus and Beta, Kappa Sigma, Pi Kappa Phi and others dissolving their Davidson chapters. Instead of continuing a segregation-by-sex policy in all the houses, five co-ed eating houses came into being, all of which were functioning until spring of 1982 — EMANON, PAX, F&M, ATO, and ETC. I do not know the exact histories of Rusk and Warner Hall, though their rise necessarily accompanied the inclusion of females on the court.

Most of you know the rest of the story, or at least those of you who do not rely on Allen Compton’s misguided article for your information. In order, ETC, ATO, and F&M closed down their operations. Spencer, now occupying the old F&M house, formerly the Kappa Sigma house, came into being after ATO, F&M, and ETC closed. Emanon and PAX, then, are the last vestiges of a once-powerful sector of Patterson Court. College Archivist, Dr. Davidson told me that in the early stages of self-selection, the trend seemed so strong toward small group co-ed dining that the college somewhat expected the death-knell of the fraternities altogether. At present, less than 120 people are active members in PAX and Emanon. Part of the reason can only be attributed to the prevalence of attitudes such as Mr. Compton’s.

I am sorry Allen, but co-ed dining is not merely the final option for “... those guys who did not get into a fraternity.” (I guess he means as well “girls who did not get into Rusk, Warner Hall or Spencer.”) Emanon and PAX are not only alive on the Davidson campus, but vital to its social well-being. While one who comes to Davidson with the “rush” mentality may not find small group co-ed dining appealing, I can assure you that the activities and attitudes of those selecting Emanon or PAX are not so disgustingly limited and mundane as you imply in your article. Granted, the capital outlay for alcoholic beverages for PAX and Emanon combined does not equal that of SAE (nor does it come close), but there is more to Davidson social life than Hattie’s Night and champagne at the Breakfast Club. Emanon and PAX are not filled with the “unfortunate” who do not manage to secure a fraternity bid.

Speaking as a senior eating at Emanon, I want to dispel a few myths. Co-ed dining at Davidson College is not, as one unnamed hall counselor of last year instructed his freshmen, “social death.” (Yes, I know that they aren’t supposed to say things like that.) As a general rule, there is some sort of organized social activity at least once and usually twice a week at both Emanon and PAX. That these activities do not universally provide alcoholic refreshment and

Thank-you-Davidson
Kathleen Caldwell

As I reflect upon the last three years at Davidson, I am grateful for all that I have learned. Yes, even taking chemistry has added to my Davidson experience. In addition, the extracurricular activities and lasting friendships that have been formed have made these three years the best of my life. It was last year, however, in which some very special people shared with me, and other Davidson students, what cannot be found in textbooks or everyday life.

I speak of Leslie Hill-Davidson who, in her class on “Black Women in the Americas,” showed me that, yes, black women have contributed to this world. They were politicians, writers, doctors, lawyers and much more. Why was I not aware of this before? Because their song has gone unsung for so many years. History textbooks tend to leave out the contributions of blacks and even more so, black women. If this realization makes me angry, frustrated, and confused, I can only imagine what it does to black women. I am grateful to Leslie for opening my eyes to something I needed to see.

I also speak of Karen Jones-Meadows, a vivacious, charming woman who taught my theater seminar spring term. She provided me with the opportunity to explore the role of black women as portrayed in drama. From the first powerful sector of Patterson Court. College Archivist, Dr. Davidson told me that in the early stages of self-selection, the trend seemed so strong toward small group co-ed dining that the college somewhat expected the death-knell of the fraternities altogether. At present, less than 120 people are active members in PAX and Emanon. Part of the reason can only be attributed to the prevalence of attitudes such as Mr. Compton’s.High decibel auditory stimulation does not make them any less enjoyable. As a matter of fact, coherent conversation at a normal speaking level has distinct advantages over more primitive forms of communication such as body signals and smell. Emanon and PAX are not filled with, to use Compton’s phrase, the ‘unfortunate’ who do not manage to secure a fraternity bid. My housemates and I actually wanted to eat at Emanon. As a matter of fact, most of us observed the fraternity system and selected against it. There is no great mystery here. We wanted small group dining, and we wanted to eat and socialize with members of the opposite sex. Emanon and PAX are not poor imitations of the Vail Commons, nor do we try to be. We are Patterson Court eating houses, composed of people who ate with us, spoke with us, partied with us, and decided to join us as members. Small group co-ed dining on Patterson Court has a distinctive flavor which sets it apart from both the Vail Commons and the single-sex eating houses.

In the past, mind you only in the recent past, the members of co-ed houses have been subjected to stereotyping. ETC, ATO, and F&M died of this affliction, to some extent, and it has undoubtedly affected the palatability of PAX and Emanon. There is no co-ed type. We have had under our respective roofs SGA officers, several recipients of first and second academic honors, Rhodes scholars, YSSC members and officers, Watson Fellowship recipients, APO, Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Pi Sigma, SCA and ODK members, ROTC personnel, members of the Davidson Peace Coalition, Officers of the Philanthropic and Eumenean Societies, DCF, TUF and IV coordinators and small group leaders, representatives of the Chapel Committee, DERS and Davidson Rape Crisis, intramural flickerball, softball, volleyball and basketball teams, members of the honor council, the College Bowl team, Women’s Concerns Committee, Editors of The Davidsonian, Honor graduates from every major... we’ve probably even had a few alcoholics. We participate in the SGA phonathon, Town Day, Ada Jenkins Day and the Crop Walk. Almost no campus organization cannot produce at least a few of our members.

Co-ed dining at Davidson is not dying out, or at least not as long as we can still offer the Davidson students something they want or need. For the newcomers to Davidson College, I welcome you in the name of small group co-ed dining and invite you to dinner whenever you choose. The single-sex scene at Davidson has a lot to offer, but Emanon and PAX are great in their own right. The Wildcat Handbook, otherwise a fine publication, should have been more careful than to have let such a skewed article slip by. The Court truly is the heartbeat of the college, and Emanon and PAX do not represent a cardiovascular disease. Please take Allen Compton’s advice not to “... settle for the opinions and prejudices of others.” Disregard his article.

Tet Stephens is a senior philosophy major from Media, PA.

On the first day of class, her enthusiasm was contagious. I learned a great deal from the plays and other literature I read. Through dramatic dialogue, black playwrights have provided vivid illustrations of the lives of black women. Although I knew Karen for only a short while, her love and appreciation for theater added a great deal to my Davidson experience. Paula Giddings, now one of my heroines (in addition to Zora Neale Hurston), is another special person. She came to Davidson on March 17 and shared with some of us her experience of writing "When and Where I Enter — The Impact of Black Women on Race and Sex in America." She is an intelligent, poised, and inspiring woman who, in her book, related the contributions of black women from slavery to the present. It is she who shared with me the memorable words of Anna Julia Cooper spoken in 1892: “Only the Black Woman can say ‘when and where I enter, in the quiet, undisputed dignity of my womanhood, without violence and without suing or special patronage, then and there the whole... race enters with me.’”

Finally, I speak of Wallace Terry, Porter Halyburton, and Fred Cherry who, one Thursday night in Love Auditorium, shared their experiences in Vietnam. I thoroughly enjoyed Wallace Terry’s talk as it was both informative and entertaining; however, it was when Porter Halyburton spoke that I was especially moved. As he shared with us his experience in a Vietnamese POW camp, I cried, not just because of what he endured, but for the further implications of his story. He shared a cell with Fred Cherry, a black man, for a number of years and in that time sustained what little life Cherry had left after continual torture. Why did I cry? Because of what it takes to bring blacks and whites together in brotherhood and harmony. We can’t extend the hand of love and friendship across racial boundaries within our own country in times of peace. No. We have to wait until thousands of our young men are sent, against their will, to a foreign country to fight against foreign people. We have to wait until, by chance, two men are thrown into the same cell of the same POW camp. Only then can we look beyond the color of our skin and see what is truly important: we are all human beings, one and the same, and we need each other regardless of race or any other superficial difference. Thank you, Davidson, for bringing these people to share something very special with us.

Kathleen Caldwell, senior history major from Richmond, VA.