The Davidsonian

Friday, October 24, 1986

Lafayette spoils homecoming game for Wildcats

By MIKE ADAMS

The Lafayette Leopards barraged the Davidson football team with seven consecutive scores in the second and third quarters to beat the Wildcats 51-14 at Richardson Stadium last Saturday.

The Cats started the game with a strong showing. They forced punts on each of the Leopards' first two possessions.

Lafayette came close to a score on their third possession. A 33-yard run to the Davidson 11-yard line would have gone for a touchdown except for a diving tackle from behind by junior linebacker Howard Humphries. The Cats' defense kept the Leopards out of the end zone and blocked a 36-yard field goal attempt on fourth down.

Davidson's offense was not able to play up to the level of the defense in the first quarter. The Cats managed just one first down and punted on all three of their first-quarter possessions.

Lafayette got its offense in gear in the second quarter, scoring on all six possessions. Meanwhile, Davidson punted three times and turned the ball over twice.

Lafayette scored first on an 83-yard drive capped by a three-yard touchdown pass. Two short Wildcat punts on their next two possessions set up field goals of 28 and 36 yards for the Leopards to make the score 13-0.

Lafayette scored next after freshman quarterback Peter Hughes fumbled at the Davidson 22-yard line. It took the Leopards only three plays to raise the score to 20-0.

Less than two minutes later, after yet another short punt, Lafayette scored again on a 19-yard touchdown pass.

Davidson's next possession ended after just one play: an interception thrown by senior quarterback Steve Bradley at the Davidson 24-yard line. Four plays later, Lafayette kicked a 38-yard field goal to make the score 30-0 at the half.

Lafayette completed its string of seven consecutive scores on its first second-half possession.

The Leopards got the ball on their own 47-yard line after a Davidson punt. Four straight running plays carried them to the Davidson 16, where a Lafayette halfback threw a touchdown pass on an option play to make the score 37-0.

The Wildcats finally got on the board late in the third quarter: Senior defensive end Marcus Allen recovered a Lafayette fumble at the 31-yard line.

Hughes opened the Wildcat drive with an incomplete pass before throwing a six-yard completion to freshman receiver Shan Teel. The Cats used a little trickery on their third down play. Junior wide receiver Charlie Winborne, a quarterback at times last season, took the ball on a pitch from Hughes and threw a 25-yard touchdown to Teel in the end zone.

Hughes led the Cats to another score on their next possession with a 99-yard drive.

The Cats started at their own one-yard line after a Lafayette punt. Pass completions of 17 and 12 yards, along with two Leopard penalties, brought the Cats to the Lafayette 38-yard line. On first down, Hughes lofted a 38-yard touchdown to sophomore receiver Mike Gross, who made a leaping catch as he fell in the end zone.

Lafayette added two more scores in the fourth quarter to reach the final of 51-14.

---

A Lafayette runner rumbles through Davidson

---

Tie improves field hockey record

By PAM HARMANN

The field hockey team’s record took a turn for the better this week, as did their quality of play. They tied Salem College on Tuesday in Winston Salem, 3-3, and lost to a strong Wake Forest team 3-0 at home on Thursday to bring their record to 1-10-1.

Davidson played very well against Salem, especially during the first half when they “could do no wrong” according to coach Betsey Pryor. Offensively they put a lot of pressure on the Salem defense resulting in several penalty corners. The Cats stayed within Salem's 35-yard line 80 percent of the time. By halftime it was 2-0 in Davidson's favor.

In the second half, Salem came out fired up. Their star player, an exchange student from Holland, dominated the game, scoring immediately after halftime, and again a few minutes later. Davidson seemed very confused. Eventually, Davidson was forced to mark her all over the field.

Davidson's three goals were scored by senior captain Heather McKee, and sophomores Suzanne Mauze and Katherine Mallory.

The loss against Wake Forest is an improvement over the last time Davidson faced the Deacons when they lost 6-0.

During the first half, play was evenly matched, although Wake took a few more shots. Play occurred mostly in the middle of the field with few shots on goal. At halftime the score was only 1-0 Wake, and Davidson was very much in the game.

As against Salem, Davidson was not quite as strong after intermission. During the second half, play covered the entire field and both teams took more shots on goal. Wake Forest was more successful with their shots, however. Davidson goalie senior Nana Lay saved eight of 10 shots on goal.

Coach Pryor feels her team is much more aggressive offensively now than at the start of the season. They are pressuring well in the circle, and working better as a team. This takes time, but luckily Davidson has a young team. Many individual strengths are starting to shine, thus helping the team.

The next home game will take place on Wednesday against High Point.