10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor
Brooke Knight, Executive Editor
Kim Crabtree, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors

Bill Bugg, Features Editor
Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager
David Maynard, Circulation Manager

Ann Roddey, Production Editor

Course revisions

The Task Force on Strategic Planning reviewed Davidson’s strengths and weaknesses. Their final report, which will be released soon, counts the quality of the faculty, the school’s emphasis on distinctiveness in teaching, and the diversity of the students among Davidson’s strengths. The school needs a curriculum which amplifies these resources and, for the most part, it has that.

However, the task force also brought up the idea that students are not challenged enough under the present curriculum, particularly in their junior and senior years. One member of the group suggested that the current system does not encourage enough independent thought. A proposed solution was to require majors to take an independent study.

Rather than limit students to working by themselves, why not make the classes themselves more productive? If certain upper-level classes in the English, philosophy, political science, religion, sociology, and anthropology departments were limited to junior and senior majors, students could focus more on the material and less on waiting for others to catch up.

Currently, anyone, except freshmen in some cases, can take any of the upper-level courses in these fields. It’s true that seminars, independent studies, etc. are restricted, but students benefit from bouncing ideas off of each other in larger groups. Some ideas discussed in this setting might never occur to the student working alone.

Also, if some classes were limited to juniors and seniors of the respective major, the ability levels would be more equally distributed. Take, for example, the average major in one of these fields. He or she spends most of the four years in class with some freshmen and usually a mixture of sophomores, juniors, and seniors. In order to provide the same base of knowledge for all students in the class, the professor is forced to explain concepts, theories, and histories with which the juniors and seniors are already well acquainted. The fact that someone from another major can take any of these classes ensures that there will always be students who are totally unfamiliar with the concepts being discussed.

These classes would be more beneficial if the student could go into certain classes from the first day knowing that those classes would build upon past knowledge. Rather than spend time reviewing concepts, they could launch directly into discussion. The material studied could be examined in further depth, and class discussions would then be more productive. Often, discussions do not reach the in-depth stage until the last three weeks of class.

The senior session provides the only opportunity of this kind in English, sociology, and political science. These one-term courses provide an opportunity to pull together what has been learned during the previous three years. However, these sessions provide only a last-minute opportunity before graduation to see the field from an all-encompassing perspective.

Seminars offer an opportunity for intensive study of a particular subfield. But these classes are limited to an average of 10 students each. With the student diversity which the task force pointed out, it is beneficial to have a class of 20 or more students to provide more input. Though students seeing the material from the perspective of another major add diversity, there should be classes where students can bring up ideas without having to discuss the remedial concepts behind the ideas.

The task force also pointed out Davidson’s high-caliber faculty dedicated to quality teaching. With some classes restricted, they too could assume a base level of knowledge and forge ahead into more advanced theories.

Friday, January 31, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

OF THE
‘80s

Letters

Basketball Support

To the Editor:

This is to thank all of the students at Davidson College who have vigorously supported our basketball team during the current season. Your participation has been a part of any success that we have achieved. Peer support and encouragement is a valuable asset. We pledge every effort on the court to be deserving of that support.

The staff and team really appreciated that tremendous student following to the Appalachian game on the road. Your enthusiasm made the ASU student newspaper. We look forward to seeing you at the remaining home games (VMI on Feb. 1, Marshall Feb. 3, Appalachian State Feb. 15, and East Tennessee State Feb. 17). Don’t forget February is a big month for our team and you can provide the “edge” that we need. Pep band and cheerleaders — great job. Keep it up!

Bobby Hussey

The Davidsonian “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions articles on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community.

Opinions Policy

We adhere to these guidelines:

1) We require that all articles be in our hands at 7 p.m. Monday.

2) We accept typed articles and those written legibly, double-spaced.

3) We require that opinions be signed. We will print unsigned articles only if a compelling reason exists for withholding the author's name, and the author is known to either the editor or executive editor.

4) We will not edit opinions for style or content but we reserve the right to edit for rules of common English. We will inform the author of substantial changes.

5) Since space for Opinions articles is limited, we reserve the right to select articles from those we receive for publication. We will attempt to print any article we withhold from publication the next week.