Friday, January 10, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cats’ cold shooting results in loss to USC
By BOYD COGGINS

While most Davidson students were enjoying the last few hours of their Christmas vacation, the men’s basketball team dueled South
Carolina in the Charlotte Coliseum. Poor shooting hurt the Wildcats as they dropped a 63-49 decision to the Gamecocks.

Davidson went into the game against South Carolina looking for its third straight victory over the Gamecocks. The last two
times these teams met, Davidson took victories by the scores of 53-52 in Charlotte and 77-61 last year in Columbia.
The Wildcats were also hoping to extend South Carolina’s road losing streak to 23 straight games, a streak which the
Cats started with their victory in Charlotte two years ago.

Davidson grabbed an early 4-0 lead to begin the game. These two scores came on buckets by sophomore Jeff Himes
and senior Jim McConkey before South Carolina scored its first points on a 20-foot jump shot by their leading scorer,
Linwood Moye. Moye was the game’s high scorer with 23 points. The Cats ran their lead up to five points
at 9-4 with 15:30 left in the first half on a three-point play by sophomore Derek Rucker and a quickly
driving layup by senior Gerry Born.

The Wildcats went cold at this point and were outscored by the Gamecocks by an 11-2 margin over the next
three-and-a-half minutes. During this period of time, South Carolina used aggressive half-court zone-trap defense which forced several Davidson turnovers and
took the Cats out of their offense. During the rest of the half, the two teams traded baskets, but Davidson
was never able to regain the lead. The first half ended with South Carolina on top 26-23.

The second half started off well for the Cats with Rucker, the team’s leading scorer, hitting a 20-foot jump shot
from the top of the key to pull Davidson to within one point at 26-25. After Rucker hit another jumper
from 20 feet with 17:26 left in the game, making the score 30-27 in favor of South Carolina, the Cats
hit another scoring drought. During the next six-and-a-half minutes, the Gamecocks ran off eight straight points which gave them a
comfortable lead at 38-27 with 11 minutes left in the game. The Gamecocks were able to maintain this lead for
the rest of the game by playing good defense and hitting clutch shots.

One key to the Gamecocks’ victory was their stifling man-to-man and 2-1-2 defense. They forced the Cats out of their
offense by keeping them from getting the ball inside to their big men. For the game, Davidson shot only 37.5
percent from the floor. To score, they had to rely on the outstanding shooting of Rucker, who hit eight of
Davidson’s 11 field goals in the second half. He finished the game with 21 points.

Another key was South Carolina’s dominance of both the offensive and defensive boards. They held Davidson to one shot during
most of the game, while having two or three chances at their own basket. They ended the game with a
41-27 rebounding edge.

The Cats can now look forward to opening the Southern Conference season with three straight home games. The first game
is against the Citadel Thursday night in Johnston Gym. They then play UT-Chattanooga Saturday night followed by Western Carolina Monday
night. After an impressive 7-4 start against tough non-conference competition, the Cats enter conference play hoping to get...Off to a
good start toward winning the conference crown, senior Ken Niebuhr puts up a shot against the Citadel as junior Ace
Tanner looks on.

By EDWIN PAGE

While most of us were home relaxing, eating, sleeping, watching meaningless bowl games on TV, and generally putting all thoughts
of Davidson away, the wrestling team was hard at work preparing for their impending season. They traveled to sunny Florida
for the Stetson Open and three dual matches against St. John’s, Wisconsin-Stout, and Stetson. The Cat wrestlers weighed in for
the Open the Sunday after Christmas, scarcely giving them time to digest their Christmas dinners before stepping onto the scales.
This 14-team event was the big pre-season warm-up for the Cats and provided a chance for all the team members
to round into shape. Junior Gary Branch did a little more than that, finishing fourth in the heavyweight division in
a draw that included such schools as Navy, Pacific, and the University of New Hampshire. While no other Cats placed,
sophomore Tim Heinze and junior John T. Lay wrestled well against tough competition and showed promise for the coming season.
Although without their full complement of wrestlers, Davidson placed tenth in the Stetson Tourney. The three dual matches later in
the week were very informal and primarily allowed the team, especially the freshmen, to gain more seasoning. This year’s team
has a lucky 13 members and will be able to fill out all of the weight levels for the first
time in several years. Lay, Branch, and Heinze should be the team leaders, and sophomore Bill Breidenstine, although he was
not in Florida, brings a lot of experience onto the mat and could be a man to look for big
things from. Coach Tom Oddo assisted with the team last year and assumed the reins this season. The Cats have
not been overly strong in the last few years so Oddo is not expecting miracles, but he is looking for
improvement. “We're trying to build up our program, we're going to try to be patient,” Oddo said. Davidson begins their
regular season this Saturday at Furman in a three-way meet with the University of the South. Next Wednesday, Davidson will
give the home fans their first chance to see the team in action as they wrestle Hampden-Sydney and Barber-Scotia in
Johnston Gym at 7 p.m.

National College Marketing Company seeks individual or campus group to work part-time assisting students in applying for credit cards. Flexible
hours. Excellent pay. Full training. Meet students and have FUN. Call Sharon Grand at 1-800-592-2121.

BUFFET Sunday 12 Noon till 9:30 P.M. SPAGHETTI 100% Durham Wheat BUFFET —ALL YOU CAN EAT— Mooresville’s First And Finest
Italian Restaurant KING Of PIZZA Lunch Buffet—Mon.-Sat., 11 AM-2:30 PM $3.39 BUFFET Tues., Wed. & Thurs. 5 P.M. till 8
P.M. 24 SOUTH BROAD STREET—MOORESVILLE—663-3030

Meal Includes:
OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE
FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD
PARMESAN—ROMANO CHEESE
SALAD BAR 45 Items
FRESH GREEN VEGETABLES
DELICIOUS FRUITS
FLAVORFUL MEATS
RICH DRESSINGS
TASTY CHEESES
WINE CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE
DESSERT-TEMPTING HAWAIIAN SALAD
CHILI CON CARNE
ALL FOR $5.35 PER PERSON
SPECIAL RATES FOR CHILDREN UNDER 12—25¢ PER YEAR

PIZZA Still Mooresville’s Finest
SPICY PEPPERONI
CANADIAN BACON
ITALIAN SAUSAGE
CHOICE BEEF
FRESHLY DICED GREEN PEPPERS
SWEET ONIONS

SOUP OF THE DAY
CREAM OF POTATO
VEGETABLE BEEF STOCK
CHICKEN NOODLE
CREAM OF MUSHROOM
MINESTRONE
CLAM CHOWDER
