Fetchin’ Bones - a night you won’t forget
By CHRISTOPHER HAR. GROVE and SCOTT GOODWIN

On Thursday evening, Sept. 4, while most were preparing for the trek here to Davidson, I had the distinct pleasure
of being crammed into a small club in my hometown with about 250 other Fetchin’ Bones fans. As sweat began
to pour out every orifice on my body, I asked myself, “Why am I here?” Just then an energetic band
of six led by a young lass of 24 stormed the stage, and my question was answered. The band was
none other than Fetchin’ Bones and the night was one which I will not soon forget.

Fetchin’ Bones are a Charlotte-based rock group who know how to have a good time. The band is led by
lead singer Hope Nicholls, a Davidson native. Their music has often been referred to as “white trash rock.” It is
something to the effect of R.E.M. meets 10,000 Maniacs in a professional wrestling Texas-style cage match. Hope’s voice is penetrating
and she does not attempt to hide her southern twang. Gary White plays lead guitar with a “schizophrenic oscillation between
hardcore and country-flavored rock.” His licks are quite electric. Gary also finds time to aid in the vocals. The rhythm
section, composed of co-founder Aaron Pitkin on guitar, bassist/violinist Donna Peters, and drummer Marc Mueller, pumps out a minimalist beat.
Mueller’s jerky staccato style of drumming makes the band quite distinctive. Their style is quite diverse: they play everything from
funk to blues, and folk to thrash.

Their live show is fantastic. Their ravenousness on stage pervades every member of the audience, insisting that everyone enjoy themselves.
Hope says, “If there’s any purpose behind our music, it’s to make people be able to go out and have
fun.” Hope’s father, Stephen Davidson, said, “Hope has always been interested in singing and writing since she was a child.”
He went on to tell me that most of their success came at the Milestone Club in Charlotte opening for
other groups and, “after a while they were the band and others were introduced.” Presently, the group is touring with
R.E.M., who Nicholls says has been very helpful to his daughter’s band. Fetchin’ Bones will release a new album in
October as a follow-up to Cabin Flounder, which was their first effort. They will be found in Love Auditorium on
Sept. 26. In today’s musical atmosphere, which is dominated by MTV, one wonders whether a band such as Fetchin’ Bones
can survive. As they say, “Miracles are happening all the time.”

By STEVE MANK

Wyoming is a state which has plagued the public consciousness as long as it has existed. Nary a day goes
by when your average guy or gal on the street doesn’t wonder, what’s happening in “the equality state” right now?
My own fascination with the state began with a stimulating tour of the Buffalo Bill Museum. Though I was little
more than 10, I was afforded the tremendous honor of coming within mere feet of actual glass balls Annie Oakley’s
sure-shot Remington missed — these trinkets are extremely rare indeed — as well as a stirring wall-sized mural of cowboys
and Indians (they still don’t call them Native Americans there) clenched in violent battle.

My curiosity about Wyoming led me on a quest to plumb the collective knowledge of Davidson College on that state.
I began by asking Mary Anne Hoskins ’87 what she knew about Wyoming. Her reply was, “Big open spaces, lots
of Anne! It’s kind of West and North too. To be precise, it lies between latitudes 41 and 45 north,
and longitudes 104 and 111 west.” But at least Miss Hoskins wasmore successful than Chery! Connor (’89) who, when asked
if she could tell her interviewer where Wyoming was, said, “No, I can’t.” Some students claimed they could find it
on an unmarked map. None, however, could compete with Derek French (’89). Derek fashioned a map out of the palm
of his left hand with his thumb serving as Florida. He then pointed to the first knuckle of his ring
finger saying, “That’s Wyoming there.” Many reported that Wyoming is the home of many cowboys, including the blue one frozen
in a mighty equine leap on the state’s license plate. Economics professor Clark Ross brought the grand myth of the
Wyoming cowboy into the modern era when he related a recent trip to the world-famous Frontier Days festival in Cheyenne:
“I felt rather out of place. There were guys wearing cowboy clothes leaning out of vans with beers and yelling.”
Ross’ peer, Charles Ratliff, claimed that people from Wyoming measure distance in beer.

I was quite surprised to find that most people’s knowledge about this proud state was rather limited. When asked what
she thought of when someone mentioned Wyoming, Leanne Steele (’88) asserted, “Nothing.” Even head reference librarian Mary Beatty Ph.D was
a bit stumped:

Beaty: I’m not going to expose my ignorance of Wyoming to the public gaze.
Myself: Can I quote you on that?
Beaty: Yes.

Beaty did, however, recall a book from her childhood (I think librarians are required to recall the titles of every
book they’ve read) called *The Green Grass of Wyoming* from which she gathered that the state is replete with “lots
of grass and horses.” My questioning took an interesting turn when Edgar Gamponia (’89) asked, “Don’t they store MX missiles
in Wyoming?” Ben Yarbrough (’89), who was positive Wyoming was square, was not so sure about the missiles. Amy Cheek
(’88) knew nothing of the silos but could tell me a bit about Edgar Gamponia: “Edgar is (what is it?)
Korean? Or Vietnamese? He’s not Filipino.” Sheryl Aikman (’87), who had actually spent time in Wyoming, finally settled the issues
saying, “If Wyoming seceded it would be the third most powerful nation in the world.” Point well made, Sheryl!

As exciting as Wyoming seems from its license plates, people have surprisingly few amusing anecdotes to tell. Professor Ratliff told
of having to take Highway 15 and then the alternate 15A in order to reach the glacier he eventually drove
through in 1980. Aikman was a little more amusing when she told, anecdotally, of the time she learned to two-step
(that’s a cowboy dance) in a bar in a town of 204 people: “It was during the woodchoppers festival which
attracts every lumberjack and Hell’s Angel west of the Mississippi.”

But the best amusing anecdote by far came from Economics professor Chris Bell. Bell told of a hitcher he picked
up in Wyoming who was earlier picked up by a kindly gentleman who offered his rider new clothes and a
place to stay. After a week the young man’s benefactor told of a business proposition he had. The two were
accompanied by the son of the man when they drove up to a mountain cabin. They told the traveler to
go to the cabin where they would meet him later. The young man, however, smelled a rat and hightailed it
into the woods where he was picked up by police who said the men were serial murderers of hitchhikers.

Myself: (excitedly) All this happened in Wyoming?
Bell: (apologetically) Well, it happened in Utah but I picked him up in Wyoming.
Myself: (disappointedly) Oh.

—Nicholls is still a resident of—
