Friday, October 3, 1986  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

Daniloff returns to U.S., Congress approves tax reform  
By DAVID WILLIAMS

Around the World: The Soviet Union freed Nicholas Daniloff, the American journalist confined to Moscow since last month. Daniloff returned to the U.S. Wednesday. The Soviets also released dissident Yuri Orlov. Gennadi Zakharov, the employee of the Soviet U.N. embassy whom the U.S. accused of spying, pleaded no contest to the charge in a Brooklyn court and was released. The White House announced that President Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev will engage in a meeting next week in Reykjavik, Iceland to make preparations for a formal summit later this year. The Soviet government took a small group of Western journalists on a tour of a Soviet nuclear test site in Central Asia. Soviet General Yuri Kebedev said, “The aim of our journey is to show you that our test site is silent.”

Secretary of State George Shultz said that in his recent talks with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze the two had agreed to seek an end to the Iran-Iraq war, but he criticized the Soviet Union for failing to block the shipment of arms to Iran from “countries with which they have influence.” President Reagan’s offer to sell 3.85 million metric tons of wheat to the Soviet Union expired Tuesday, and the Soviets still showed no interest in the purchase.

President Reagan vetoed legislation imposing sanctions against South Africa, but indicated he would impose milder ones by executive order to head off a congressional override of his veto. The House voted 313-83 to override the president’s veto. In an effort to win Senate approval of his veto, Reagan named veteran black diplomat Edward Perkins as the new Ambassador to South Africa. Meanwhile, South African Foreign Minister Roelof Botha told several senators Wednesday that Pretoria would cut off grain purchases from the United States if the Senate votes to override the veto. More than 250,000 South African blacks stayed away from their jobs Wednesday to mourn the 177 men killed last month in South Africa’s worst gold-mining disaster.

Israel formally charged retired American auto worker John Demjanjuk with crimes against humanity in torturing Jews at the Treblinka death camp during World War II. Israeli military authorities appointed three Arab mayors to head towns in the West Bank that were previously controlled by Israeli officers. Christian militiamen backed by Lebanese army units foiled an attempt by pro-Syrian militiamen to seize control of the predominantly Christian sector of East Beirut. Fifty-two were killed and 200 wounded in the fighting. Senior Lebanese army officer Khalil Kanaan was slain Monday in East Beirut. The Philippines military reported the arrest of top Communist rebel leader Rodolfo Salas. The U.S. Senate voted 52-3 Monday to defeat a proposal for $200 million in increased aid to the Philippines. President Corazon Aquino said she was disappointed at the defeat, but understood the Senate had its own priorities.

The French government Wednesday cancelled all police leaves amid warnings by senior government officials that a new wave of terrorist attacks could occur soon. French police arrested nine people in connection with last month’s series of bombings in Paris. A senior French official cited evidence that linked Syria with the group police believe carried out the bombings. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Jacques Chirac’s conservative party gained 17 new seats in the French senate.

In other news: Sudanese rebels said they would not allow an emergency airlift to bring food to starving people in government-held areas of southern Sudan. China’s Communist Party’s Central Committee held a rare meeting Sunday and reaffirmed China’s commitment to economic modernization and increased standards of living. The leadership of the outlawed Polish Solidarity movement announced the formation of a council composed of seven former fugitive leaders who are to work openly for the restoration of the Union.

PIE IN THE SKY PIZZA  
Featuring Hand Rolled and Tossed Pizza (Made While You Watch)  
Pizza by the Slice (Until 4pm)  
Submarine Sandwiches  
Homemade Meatball Sandwiches  
Italian Sausage Sandwiches  
Tossed Salads

September 28th To Celebrate Tim's 30thBirthday 30% Off Large Pizzas
ONE DAY ONLY
PHONE IN OR TO-GO ORDERS WELCOMED - 663-7189
125.2 N. Main St. in The Markade (Behind Magic Rental)
Mooresville
Mon-Thurs. 11am-10pm, Fri. & Sat. 11am-12 (midnight), Sun. 5-10pm
2 Blocks down from What-A-Burger. If you pass Belk, you've gone too far.

West Germany’s Green Party concluded a chaotic meeting in Nuremberg with an apparent victory of its pragmatic wing over its utopian and Marxist-Leninist factions.

Amnesty International accused the British government of failing to conduct a proper investigation into charges that the Northern Irish police deliberately killed unarmed civilians suspected of being members of the Irish Republican Army.

Across the Nation:
The House and Senate gave final congressional approval to legislation creating a new Federal income tax system. Representative Dan Rostenkowski, the floor manager of the bill, attributed the legislation's strong support to “its promise of fairness, the sense that the family down the street or the corporation across town” will no longer be able to take undue advantage of the tax code. The House voted 292-136 in favor of the bill, while the Senate’s margin was 74-23.

The House voted 201-200 to approve a $562 billion overall appropriation bill for 1987 despite President Reagan’s threat to veto the bill. The Senate passed a stop-gap measure to keep the government operating for eight days until Congress agrees on a final appropriations bill. The Senate passed by a vote of 97-2 its version of an anti-drug bill after declaring that “the exceptional nature of the drug abuse problem” warranted exceeding existing budget limits to combat it.

William Rehnquist and Antonin Scalia took their oaths of office Saturday, as Rehnquist became the Supreme Court’s 16th chief justice, and Scalia became the court’s 103rd member. President Reagan attended the ceremonies for the opening of the new Carter Presidential library and celebrated Carter as a President whose life and career “is distinctly and gloriously American.”

The F.B.I. said it has formed a special team of agents to investigate disclosures of sensitive government information to news organizations. A Pentagon study concluded that the U.S. has no effective strategy to cope with the increasing threat of terrorism and guerrilla warfare. A federal grand jury indicted John Zaccaro, husband of former Vice-presidential candidate Geraldine Ferraro, on charges of bribery in the awarding of cable television franchises in New York.

Thirty thousand dockworkers from Maine to Virginia walked off their jobs Wednesday in the first industry-wide strike against East Coast shipping companies since 1971. One hundred thirty-nine people were arrested in Mercury, Nevada at the nuclear test site in protest against the nation’s continued underground testing of nuclear weapons in the face of a Soviet moratorium.

In Business News:
In a speech to 10,000 bankers and foreign economic officials attending the annual meetings of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund, President Reagan said he wants American interest rates to decline “even further” than they have already this year. Mexican government officials and the Bank Advisory Group for Mexico announced they had reached agreement on a rescue package that will provide $12 billion in new loans to Mexico.

The nation’s trade deficit shrank by $4.7 billion during August, the largest one-month reduction on record. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldridge said, “The decline in the dollar may be taking hold.” The index of leading economic indicators fell two-tenths of a percent, implying several more months of weak economic growth. Sales of new homes fell 13.4 percent in August. The Commerce Department also reported that construction spending jumped 1.1 percent in August. However, orders to American factories plunged in August by 1.4 percent.

Stock prices dropped, as the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed Wednesday at 1782.90 points, down 21.39 points from a week ago. Gold prices dropped to $425 an ounce, down $6, while silver closed at $5.576, down 33.7 cents. The dollar held steady against the British pound, but fell against the French franc, the West German mark, and the Japanese yen.

FROZEN YOGURT