Friday, January 10, 1986  
THE DAVIDSONIAN 11  

Robbery victim asks assailants “Why?”  
by Elizabeth Dick  

This letter is for a couple of guys in Richmond, Va., to whom I have not been formally introduced. I seriously doubt if anyone at Davidson has ever met or will ever meet them. I don’t know where they live or if they have a dog or if they like to play Monopoly. We didn’t talk much the night we met. Though the likelihood of our meeting again is slim, there are a few things I'd like to say to those two.

Hey guys! Was the gun real? It looked like a cap gun to me, but I certainly don’t know much about guns. Were you two just bored one Saturday night, wanting to pick on someone, or did you really need the money? I must admit my brother and I had a hard time taking you two seriously. “This is a stick-up,” you, the shorter one, said. What? Are you crazy? Right here by our car in front of Lee’s house in this quiet neighborhood? You’ve got to be kidding! I laughed. “We don’t have any money,” I told you. Again you said, “This is a stick-up. Give us all your money.” I repeated that we didn’t have any money but here was a new Monopoly game we got for Christmas (we were going to Lee’s to play Monopoly) and would you like that? You decided to show us you meant business. “Show them we mean business,” you, the shorter one, snapped at your bigger friend. And there was that gun at Daniel’s head! “Look, guys,” I stated emphatically, “I swear we don’t have any cash!” I didn’t even have my wallet with me because my house was just a few blocks away. Dan, gun at his head, said, “Uh, I think I have a few dollars.” He pulled out his wallet and gave you his last two dollars, with me beside him not believing what was happening. And then we watched as you, commanding us not to look, walked out of sight.

Of course afterwards, once inside Lee’s house, I raged indignantly at the audacity (that means boldness) of you two. I angrily thought of all the things I should have done, like make lots of noise, or pretend I was having an epileptic fit, or anything to keep you guys from taking advantage of us and making us feel so helpless. Exposed. Vulnerable. You only got two dollars. Was it worth it? I mean, wasn’t that something like armed robbery and if you're caught doesn’t that mean a lot of years in prison? As far as I am concerned, two dollars is a small price for the whole experience. I mean, thanks to you guys, Richmond’s crime rates (aren’t we third in the nation for number of homicides, or something like that?) is no longer a statistic to me. And I feel I can identify with a few more Universal Concepts, like Injustice, Innocent Victim, Righteous Indignation...

Mostly, though, I became aware of my inability to bridge the differences between us, to talk with you. How does one deal with other humans that operate from different value systems? After the incident a policeman told me calmly, “First of all, give them what they want, because they’ll kill ya. Just like that.” I know a song with the lines: “We share the same biology/Regardless of ideology,” which I think means we have the same kind of bodies, no matter how different our beliefs are. But what happens when someone's beliefs bring harm to other bodies? According to statistics, that happens a lot in Richmond, as well as Detroit, and Los Angeles. What about in Kabul, and Managua, and Beirut?

When my brother and I were studying photographs of possible suspects, I couldn’t really remember what you looked like; there were so many faces. Young faces, about my or my brother’s age. So many pairs of eyes staring right at me: round eyes, squinty eyes, some cold, some guilty, some scared, a lot of eyes that didn’t care anymore. Do you know any of those people? And what I really want to know is — is there a way I can speak to you guys? Or will I always be left...Righteously indignant, watching you go off into the night? Dick is a sophomore from Richmond, Va.

The Unconstitutionality of Gramm-Rudman
Keith Finch

In case you haven’t heard, Congress has finally admitted that it can’t control itself. The Gramm-Rudman law, approved by Congress and President Reagan in December, is essentially an automatic deficit-cutting machine programmed to force us into a balanced budget by 1991. Next Wednesday, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) will submit to Congress their best guesses about the size of this year’s deficit. If they predict that it will exceed 171.9 billion dollars, then the General Accounting Office (GAO) will prepare a set of automatic, across-the-board cuts in spending of up to 11.7 billion dollars. If, by March 1, the President and Congress haven’t cut at least that much from the deficit, then the budget goes on automatic pilot — all that excess spending gets the axe anyway. And will continue to get the axe, until the budget balances in 1991. They hope.

Nobody really likes Gramm-Rudman; it'll mean cutting spending, or raising taxes, or both, and nobody’s sure whether it will actually make Congressmen work harder for a real compromise. Only about 27 percent of the budget is subject to massive automatic cuts, yet some very sensitive programs — student loans, farm price supports, veterans’ medical benefits — are on the chopping block. It’s also pretty embarrassing for Congress to have to tie its own hands like this. But these aren’t the worst things about Gramm-Rudman; what’s really scary is its flagrant unconstitutionality in handing over control of the government to a few accountants and economists.

The very first thing the Constitution says is, “All legislative powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives.” Elsewhere, in Article II, it plainly states, “The executive power shall be vested in a President of the United States of America.” Nowhere does it mention the OMB, GAO, or CBO, yet under Gramm-Rudman these are the agencies which will be determining the nature of our annual budget. They are vested with executive and legislative power. If the OMB were to “decide” that we’re facing a massive deficit, then it could effectively cut about $265 billion off the budget without asking anybody else. We, the people of the United States, would have no say in the matter — we don’t get to vote for the OMB. The fate of critical government programs could be decided by a bunch of clerks and pencil-pushers.

There’s an even more worrisome side to the story: another provision of Gramm-Rudman, intended to help avert economic chaos, effectively allows the CBO and OMB to dictate economic policy. It states that if in any year either the OMB or the CBO forecasts two or more consecutive quarters of negative economic growth (a recession), then the House and Senate majority leaders must introduce a joint resolution suspending automatic cuts for that year. If such an abdication of Congress’ powers wasn’t so blatantly unconstitutional, it would give the economists at the OMB and CBO — bureaucrats — the power to bend the will of the mighty legislative branch. How often are economists right? About one time in twenty? And do they ever agree? Why should the economists at the OMB and CBO have the right to run our economy? We didn’t elect them. Yet they could send our nation into the depths of depression without our consent.

They probably won't, of course. The people at OMB and CBO will presumably just keep on doing the same thing they've been doing all along — guessing. Yet the very idea that Congress is trying to surrender its constitutional powers is scary — and ridiculous. By 1991 the makeup of the Congress will have changed substantially, and there’s no reason why it shouldn't take back the authority it surrendered in 1985. Yet I hope it won't have to. Gramm-Rudman has no constitutional basis, and therefore it cannot survive. I shall enjoy watching the Supreme Court strike it down.

Finch is a sophomore from Blacksburg, Va.

To Place An Ad:
1) Send it to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson N.C. 28036.
2) Call The Davidsonian at 892-2000 ext. 148.
3) Contact John Elster (Advertising Manager).

All ads must be received by the Tuesday before that Friday’s issue.