Friday, April 4, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Kevin Eubanks' Opening Night a gem

Liner Notes
Kevin Eubanks
Opening Night
GRP-A-1013
By JEFFERY BROWN

Guitarist Kevin Eubanks turns in a truly fine performance on his latest album, Opening Night. The album features an outstanding
array of jazz luminaries, all of whom add substance and depth to the work. The album remains, however, a showcase
for Eubanks’ impressive improvisational and compositional skills.

The album takes off with “Opening Nights,” an up-tempo tune that finds Eubanks and saxophonist Branford Marsalis maneuvering through an
exceptionally difficult head (melody). At times, guitar and saxophone seem to be one instrument, a further testament to the remarkable
technical skills of both musicians. Neither musician, however, adheres to the belief in technical skill for its own sake. Rather,
their instrumental command serves the greater purpose of performing more enjoyable music.

“Shades of Black,” a duet featuring Eubanks on acoustic guitar and drummer Big Black on tumba drum, is according to
Eubanks “...a lot more African-oriented than the other pieces.” The interplay between guitar and drums creates an exotic, haunting feeling,
intensified by the song's constant, driving, rhythmic pulse. Especially noteworthy is the support evident between the musicians. Eubanks utilizes a
highly percussive style of playing that complements and often echoes the playing of Big Black.

“The Navigator” finds Eubanks and Marsalis together again in a quintet setting. The song swings infectiously, moving into a series
of fine solos by Eubanks, Marsalis, and pianist Kenny Kirkland. Of the three, Kirkland’s effort stands out most prominently. His
solo moves with an infectious zest, revealing why Kirkland remains one of the great sidemen.

Side one ends with “Thinking About Thinking,” which features Eubanks on overdubbed acoustical guitar. Inspired by the classical counterpoint tradition
(according to Eubanks), this song clearly reveals the highly percussive nature of Eubanks’ playing.

Side two opens with “In Flight From Omelas,” a quick, lively tune that teams Eubanks with flutist Kent Jordan. The
tonal colors produced by pairing flute with guitar create a feeling of airiness and jubilance that proves totally engaging. As
with most of the other songs, however, I find myself wishing for longer, more involved solos.

“A Place Before You’ve Been,” a moody, mid-tempo piece highlights Eubanks and Kirkland in a quartet format. Eubanks shines, creating
a sea of emotions and colors that entrance and mesmerize. This is perhaps the finest effort on the album.

“Veias Isle” again features flutist Kent Jordan. This song affords Jordan the opportunity to display his fine improvisational skills, and
he soars. The song’s Brazilian-influenced beat proves engaging and uplifting, a fitting contrast to the moody, pensive “A Place Before
You’ve Been.”

The final selection, “To Be Continued,” again finds Eubanks in a solo-setting turned duet via overdubbing. His remarkable ability to
compose songs of emotional depth remains a most enduring asset. “To Be Continued” is no exception. It fades, leaving the
listener in a state of longing and anticipation.

At 27, Kevin Eubanks emerges as a major voice on jazz guitar. Although he lacks the technical flair of a
Stanley Jordan or an Al Di Meola, he nonetheless remains their musical equal in every meaningful respect. Jazz guitar aficionados
should not overlook this gem.

Would-be Midnight Cowboy viewers beware
By JENNY LIVINGSTON

“This downer brought to you by Davidson College Fine Film Committee.” I think that should appear in the opening credit
sequence of “Midnight Cowboy” as fair warning to those of us that are depressed enough without a movie to bring
us down. It’s not that I expect happy endings all the time; I realize that things don’t always turn out
great, even in the movies. But, man, if a movie's going to make me crash, it had better have something
worthwhile to say. If it can’t be entertaining it should at least be meaningful.

But the only thing I could get out of “Midnight Cowboy” is don’t move to New York to be a
hustler if you’re just a dumb cowboy, and not even very good looking. Great. Deep.

When this movie came out, the critics loved it. Or at least those critics who think anything depressing with a
lot of flashbacks and dream sequences and Dustin Hoffman is a quality picture. And all those suckers who believe anything
the critics say loved it. So it won a lot of awards. That is why we here at Davidson call
it a “Fine Film” and charge people a buck-fifty to be depressed by it.

Basically, it’s about this young guy named Joe Buck (yes, we know everyone from Texas is named Joe Buck). Bored
with his life as a dishwasher at a truck stop, he decides that every wealthy woman in New York is
dying for...his studly services. He gets there and can’t turn a single trick, except for a couple that he gets
stiffed on. He finally meets up with Dustin Hoffman alias (get this) Rico Rizzo, cripple and street sage. He moves
in with Rizzo into an unheated condemned building, donating his blood for money so they can eat. Things go downhill
from there. A real fun picture. And as if that weren’t bad enough, they had to wear really ugly clothes.
I mean, we’re talking fringed jackets, print shirts, and polyester. We're talking major sideburns and bouffant hairdos. Those were hard
times. Well, you're asking, what could be worse than a depressing movie about unattractive poor people in ugly clothes? A
long depressing movie about unattractive poor people in ugly clothes. I didn’t think the damn thing was going to end.
Just when I thought they couldn’t possibly get any more mileage out of the “country boy-with-big-dreams-goes-to-the-big-city-and-descends-into-hell” story, they tack on
a plot twist and another hour. Snore. So, is there any reason to see this? Well, the theme song’s decent
and there’s a pretty good scene where Joe gets stoned on what he thinks is just a hand-rolled like they
got in Texas. Otherwise, save your buck-fifty.

Offerings by The Clash and Jackson Browne
By LEE EICHELBERGER

The Clash
Cut The Crap
Epic/Columbia Records FE-40017

Behind the layered keyboards, behind the effects-laden guitars, and behind the beatbox style drumming, I'd like to think that a
band called the Clash still exists. I rationalize that it must have been their label that forced them to cough
up this embarrassing collection of songs. This can’t be the same band that, five years ago, perfected punk music with
the release of London Calling. I suppose that some change was to be expected when co-writer, co-lead singer, Mick Jones
left thirty months ago. Yet it seems that surviving writer Joe Strummer is determined to integrate the band's style with
what he thinks will be tomorrow's cutting edge. Not only has he abandoned his traditional song style and structure, but
he has created a sound that combines the worst elements of Heaven 17 keyboards and pseudo-Arthur Baker production with overblown
Clash guitar style. Hence “We Are The Clash” is, sadly, humorous not only for its frivolity (“We're not gonna take
that trash / We are the Clash”), but primarily for its half-hearted execution. Vocals and melody are lost in the
rococo mix of “Dictator.” “Cool Under Heat” sounds like an off-key remix of “We Are The Clash.” Ultimately, rhythm, melody,
and vocals lose all unity and shatter into unpleasant noise at the end of “Life Is Wild.” The only glimmer
of the ‘old’ Clash is in “Three Card Trick” where the mixing board allows the band to make a cameo
appearance. It is clear that the album was titled as an afterthought to its content.

Jackson Browne
Lives In The Balance
Asylum Records 9-60457

In a recent interview, Elvis Costello (now Declan McManus) described musical stereotypes that he despised and avoided. One of these
was “the ‘f--k me, I'm so sensitive’ Jackson Browne school of seduction.” There is no denying that Jackson Browne has
been cast in the role of the self-pitying serenader. Unfortunately, he only seemed to realize this on his last record,
Lawyers In Love, and even there his tendency to distort his perceptions for the “purity” of emotion was evident. But
finally, Lives In The Balance offers the hope that Browne has finally seen the light at the end of his
self-conscious over-sensitivity tunnel that he milked dry almost ten years ago. Of course, there is that Jackson Browne melodrama remains
in lines like “God is great, God is good / He guards your neighborhood” and in “For America” Browne sings
emphatically, “We'd better wake her up this time.” But what really makes me cringe is when Browne makes the point
of putting the word “truth” in italics to make certain that I don’t miss it. But these are only minor
flaws. “In The Shape of A Heart” succeeds beyond mere sentimentality as a touching love song. “Till I Go Down”
experiments with reggae rhythms and stark songwriting. But the title cut is Jackson Browne at his best. Its politically oriented
lyrics and its distinctive Latin American flavor more than implicitly point at Central America. There is much more here than
this. For Lives In The Balance is primarily a rediscovery of a man who has squandered himself for the last
seven years.
