Friday, September 19, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tim Brown

My limited knowledge of South Korea is based on essays and articles I have read, and on hours of conversation
I have had with two South Korean friends. Just as many American yuppies casually attribute their work ethic to their
Puritan primogenitors, the South Koreans accredit their work ethic to Confucius, who 25 centuries ago gave the East the novel
idea that work is indeed virtuous. With this idea still in the recesses of their minds, the South Koreans now
attempt to make a good living from their land “rich in beauty but poor in resources,” as the author Peter
Hyun describes it. Their attempts have been encouraged by their president's policies of quality-oriented trade improvement and trade liberalization.

After receiving the reins of power from President Park Chung Hee, who after the Korean War prodded “the sleeping tiger”
that was South Korea’s economy into wakefulness, President Chun Doo Hwan decided to continue to increase the size of South
Korea’s economy, but also to employ the maxim “quality comes first.” Under his leadership, South Korea’s economy has continued to
grow eight per cent annually for the last twenty years. Strong economic diversity has been achieved particularly in such areas
as steel, shipbuilding, electrical machinery, petrochemicals, and electronics. Surprising to many, South Korea’s steel industry lays a legitimate claim to
being the world’s most efficient steel industry — 582 tons of steel per worker in 1983 — 25 per cent
more efficient than Japan, which ranks a close second. Still, Japan has little reason to be unsettled since its shipbuilding
industry ranks number one worldwide and South Korea’s comes in a distant number two.

South Korea dominates construction in the Middle East. Its semiconductor industry is growing by leaps and bounds. This industry’s exports
are expected to grow from $1 billion last year to $3 billion by 1988 and to $12 billion by the
year 2000. As South Korea’s quality-oriented and liberalization trade policies lead to encouragement for high technology, the country is entering
into more and more joint ventures. It has galvanized links with Dow Corning, Honeywell, Hewlett-Packard, Mitsubishi, General Motors, Chrysler, Ford,
and Mazda. The thoughtful consumer, who realizes that what American consumers need most is another brand of automobile to choose
from, won't be disappointed when seeing and test-driving any one of South Korea’s and Japan’s Hyundais, or one of South
Korea’s and Ford’s 80,000 Kia minis, which will go on display in showrooms throughout the good ole U.S. in 1987.

Displaying contemporaneously the greediness of the miser and the compassion of the Good Samaritan, South Korea exports and consumes bite-sized
chunks of the foreign market, and lessens import restrictions and protectionist tendencies. South Koreans have an admirable understanding of the
elementary fact that protectionism is bad news for imports, exports, and the consumers who are caught in the middle. Sixty
per cent of South Korea’s national income comes from trade. And in order to keep this trade growing and the
consumers happy, a program of import liberalization has been implemented. This program increases the ratio of items that can be
imported without prior government approval from a generous ratio of 68.2 per cent to a more generous one of 87.7
per cent. In addition, current economic policies have been refigured and reworked to allow domestic and international market forces to
decide the most efficient method of resource allocation.

Because of these mutually beneficial attempts on their part, South Koreans get hot underneath their collars when the United States
“implies that South Korea is to blame” largely for the United States’ unreasonably high trade deficits. South Korea accounted for
only 3.2 per cent of the total U.S. trade deficits last year and enjoyed a trade surplus of $4.8 billion.
Maybe the U.S. is displacing at South Korea anger that is intended for Japan, which enjoyed a $49.7 billion trade
surplus with the U.S. last year. In the past, the U.S. has shown tendencies to incorrectly and inextricably associate the
two eastern countries. The United States’ squabbling and griping are insubstantiated further by the fact that South Korea has hired
Americans to work in its industries located in the U.S.: 220 Americans at a TV plant in New Jersey, and
800 Americans at a TV plant in Alabama. When South Korea assumed ownership of a failing steel-sheet manufacturing plant in
Pittsburg, Calif., all the workers judged to be efficient were asked if they would stay on.

The United States’ squabbling and griping are further undermined by the fact that South Korea fought alongside the U.S. during
the Korean War, enduring three years of fierce fighting to kick the North Koreans back over the 38th parallel. Today
in Soviet-backed North Korea, 700,000 army men and 100,000 ready-and-able commandos meander about and occasionally look southward. Still, President Chun
maintains his determination to build sturdy bridges and to ease the tensions between his country and its neighbors. He seeks
reunification of the two Koreas and has proposed a constitution to make this reunion both official and honorable to each
country. In 1983, President Chun was able to get Japanese Premier Nakasone to come over to his house in Seoul
by promising Nakasone good food, some merriment, and intellectual conversation regarding political, cultural, and economic exchanges. Also, President Chun has
played the roles of guest and host to Reagan, delegates from Africa and Canada, and the Pacific Basin. At these
opportunistic meetings, Chun has given power-packed dialogue concerning the rewards of economic and political cooperation.cooperation. When South Korea plays host
to the Olympic Games in 1988, the world will be given the chance to know South Korea a little better.
Hynn writes concerning the up-and-coming Olympics: “South Korea, for centuries the target of incursions from abroad, will soon welcome an
invasion. This time, however, the invaders are expected to arrive armed with the skills of friendly combat, pure thoughts, and
fat wallets.” South Korea — many of whose people still show signs of euphoria when asked about the Olympic Games
in Los Angeles in 1984, from which their athletes carried six gold, six silver, and seven bronze, their best performance
ever — is doing better than expected in preparing itself for 1988. The Seoul Sports Complex seats 100,000 comfortably and
is conveniently a skip and a jump from the Kimpo International Airport. South Korea’s indoor swimming pool seats 4,500 spectators,
its basketball gymnasium seats 20,000, its fencing gymnasium seats 7,000, its gymnastics hall 10,000, its equestrian park 30,000, and its
velodrome 6,000 people. Similarly, spacious facilities exist for baseball, judo, weightlifting, table tennis, shooting, archery, and other Olympic tests of
skill. A $300 million “shopping village” is under construction. Moreover, an extensive and elaborate subway system, the world’s seventh largest
and able to service five million commuters a day, has been completed recently. This subway is nothing like the graffiti-ridden,
trash-ridden burrows that many New Yorkers and Ed Koch have grown to like. South Korea’s subway is lined with shops
and arcades and art exhibits. It is efficient and safe and clean. In addition, the subway displays a traditional concern
for cleanliness, which is considered above “Buddhaliness.”

Though they have modeled their economy and politics to some degree in the image of the West, South Koreans cling
to their cultural traditions. Proud of their 95 percent literacy rate, many South Koreans continue to write classical Chinese poetry,
continue to produce fiction and nonfiction at a rate of 100 volumes a week, and continue to carry on Korean
folklore. Ancient forms are still espoused and nurtured in dance, art, and theatre. He seeks reunification of the two Koreas
and has proposed a constitution to make this reunion both official and honorable to each country.

My reading has convinced me that South Korea, bearing some semblance to David, will continue to compete with and to
make peace with the Goliath-sized nations of the world. My two South Korean friends have convinced me that South Korea’s
strength will continue to stem largely from its people's adherence to the Confucian work ethic, which is evident in their
hard work and hard play. And my two South Korean friends (they live in Charlotte) and I hope that South
Koreans who adhere to the Confucian work ethic can avoid what many Charlotteans who adhere to the Puritan work ethic
cannot: type A personalities.

Democratic politics in South Korea have been molded and cast by President Chun’s three principles of liberalization, reconciliation, and reform.
Allow Chun’s six-and-a-half-year-old record to speak well for itself: The constitution has been revised to strengthen human rights, freedom of
speech, assembly, and the press. Forced confessions have been outlawed. Police have been removed from campuses, and students are allowed
to travel and work and study abroad, which developments have helped to create a free atmosphere in which to learn.
The jails have been emptied of innocent prisoners who were wrongly convicted during previous periods of avid unrest. Promises of
public welfare, public education, and a legitimate judicial system have been made and fulfilled. Many previously banned from political activities
no longer are. The midnight-to-4 a.m. curfew has been evaporated. Last year’s National Assembly elections were claimed the freest in
South Korea’s history. Chun has promised to step down in 1988 and to adhere to new laws that limit one
president to one seven-year term. And Chun has maintained, as President Park did before him, that the best way for
a country to protect itself from communists who desire to export their ideologies is to surpass them “in the economic,
political, and social sectors of life.”

The informed reader might wonder, then, why there are so many news articles saying so many bad things about a
minority’s fervent opposition to President Chun. One major reason is that South Korea’s rapidly blooming economy has created distances, in
some cases and areas considerable distances, between the haves and the have-nots. The minority that opposes Chun demands more equitable
income distribution. The other major reason is that the minority, though it agrees with the current course President Chun’s government
is taking, doesn’t believe his government is running towards the finish line “fast enough.” Now President Chun — in order
to get the unsettled minority to join the ranks of the satisfied majority and in order to get this minority
more involved in the cornucopia of economic growth — is increasing job opportunities, government-owned housing developments, medical insurance, social security,
welfare, and public education. He also has offered to speak with this minority about possible improvements in the constitution.

Having North Korea, the Soviet Union, China, and Japan as neighbors makes South Korea’s first and last concerns the security
and integrity of its front and back lawns. Its concerns over security and integrity have been confirmed by twentieth-century history.
The Japanese ruled Korea from 1910 until their defeat in WWII. In June 1950, North Korea invaded; it would take
South Korea, the United States, and the forces of 15 other nations to push the invaders back.
