Spread of spring spirit, see pp. 8-10.

The Davidsonian
Volume LXXV, Number 23
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, May 9, 1986

PCC proposes new alcohol policy to court houses
By TREEBY WILLIAMSON

With an emphasis on keeping Davidson students safe while maintaining the atmosphere of present Davidson parties, the Patterson Court Council presented its newly established alcohol policy to the houses of Patterson Court this week. If passed by three-quarters of the houses, with a two-thirds majority in each house, the policy will go into effect fall term.

The policy requires the establishment of a designated service area to be entered only by persons 21 years of age or older. This area must be a room separate from the social function. In order to enter this designated area, proper proof of ID in the form of a Davidson ID, driver’s license, or passport must be presented in order to receive a stamp of eligibility. Bartenders who will not consume alcohol will regulate the distribution of alcohol. Containers can be no larger than 20 ounces, and there will be no service to those already obviously intoxicated. In addition, 25 percent of the “common cost of the alcoholic beverages shall be spent on food and alternate beverages.” Drinking games or contests cannot be scheduled as social functions.

In an effort to prevent drunk driving, the PCC will provide funds to finance ten additional hours of campus security on the Court. However, the month of September will serve as an educational period. During this time, students stopped for driving intoxicated will receive only a warning. Safe transportation must be available at any house-sponsored event taking place away from the campus. Mandatory house meetings to educate members about the Davidson College policy and North Carolina state laws are required during the first three weeks of fall term.

An Enforcement Council consisting of one acting social chairman from each house and two PCC members is also proposed. The council will be chaired by the non-voting PCC president. A non-voting secretary will also be elected. The purpose of the Enforcement Council is to try suspected violators of the policy. Anybody can report a suspected violation if it is reported within seven days of observation to the Secretary of the Enforcement Council. The member of the Patterson Court house under charge will then be presented with a formal statement of charges along with a definite date, place, and time for a closed hearing within seven days of the date.

Trustees meet
By NELLE MCCORKLE

The Board of Trustees convened last Thursday and Friday on campus for their bi-annual meeting. The board named Robert C. Williams vice president for academic affairs and dean of the faculty at the meeting. Williams, currently dean of University College at Washington University in St. Louis, assumes the position Aug. 1.

The trustees also approved the college Alcohol Policy pending review by the Patterson Court Council. According to SGA President Mark Sandy: “The most important aspect of the Alcohol Policy is that it’s going to put a lot of responsibility on the students, which is where I think the responsibility should lie. Students are going to determine whether it works or not. The school comes up with an overall policy, and then Patterson Court comes up with a specific policy.”

Vice President of Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty Price Zimmermann and President John Kuykendall recommended the following faculty promotions approved by the trustees: Edmund Palmer in psychology, Felix Carroll Jr. in chemistry, and Merlyn Schuh in chemistry were named professors; Wolfgang Christian in physics, Peter Hess in economics, Cynthia Lewis in English, and Homer Sutton in French were declared associate professors; and Robin Barnes in history, Christian, Hess, Lewis, and Sutton re-of service of the formal statement of charges. In the hearing, the president of the house under review and the Enforcement Council member of that house will represent their house. The charged individual has the right to request anonymity. After a formal statement of charges and a presentation of witnesses on both sides, the Enforcement Council may ask questions before it moves into its executive session. In the executive session, if a violation is found to occur (by a two-thirds majority of the voting committee), then a sanction will be imposed (also to be approved by a two-thirds vote) upon the house. Sanctions range from warnings to fines of $100 (to the PCC by the house in violation) to social probations of either one or two weeks (in addition to fines of $200 and $400 respectively) to social probation for a period of time determined by the Enforcement Council.

The Enforcement Council, according to PCC President Fran Houck, was established in order to "preserve unity and equity among the court houses. With the new alcohol policy, such enforcement is essential in order to maintain a sense of fairness." The prosecution of violators is extremely important, and it is up to the Davidson students' responsibility to report violations if they want the alcohol policy to remain effective.

In addition, the PCC recommended seven administrative actions to facilitate the effectiveness of the policy. The suggestions asked for later hours for the Union Cafe on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday nights (open until 3 a.m.) in order to avoid drunk driving to Ham 'n Eggs or 7-11. Vending machines in more convenient locations to Patterson Court parties were also requested, as well as allowing houses to hold formals in Vail Commons without mandatory meals or in another appropriate on-campus facility.

As to the fall implementation of these and the other seven recommended administrative actions, PCC member Brett Flinchum was not overly optimistic. However, he added, "if the Court adheres to the policy this fall, our chances of receiving these benefits would be much greater."

It is important to note that the Patterson Court Alcohol Policy is separate from the policy of the college itself. The Davidson College Alcohol Policy has a provision which allows Patterson Court to establish its own policy. The purpose of this action was to release the college from any legal responsibility to Patterson Court parties as well as allow PCC members to educate themselves about alcohol laws and policy in the process. The policy, if passed, will be reviewed and revised if necessary at the end of fall term 1986. The policy will be reviewed annually by the PCC and then approved by three-fourths of the active houses on Patterson Court by a two-thirds vote within each house.

As Houck has said, though the policy is not totally in conformance with North Carolina State Alcohol Laws, its main purpose is to prevent drunk driving and encourage responsible drinking while at the same time maintaining the spirit of equality and community on Patterson Court.

Sophomore Steve Omli participates in headball. For more spring photographs, see pages 8-10.