4 Friday, January 24, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Former student, professor works with campus growth
By ANDY BALL

Director of Facilities Planning Grover Meetze has made a career out of keeping Davidson College beautiful. Meetze, a former student and professor here, now heads the department responsible for most of the development and growth of the campus and bordering areas.

Over the years, Meetze has directed the construction and renovation of nearly every house, dormitory, and building at Davidson College. Meetze is currently working on converting the entire campus into an arboretum. He is working with a committee consisting of Margaret Zimmermann, Dr. John H. Williamson, Dr. Tom Daggy, and Irvin Brawley to achieve this end. “We hope this will be a valuable resource to both students and faculty and will help to develop a learning environment second to none,” Meetze said.

In response to the parking problem, Meetze has proposed an extension of the existing parking area around the northern perimeter of the campus in the near future. His other projects include the construction and design of the new WDAV radio station and the new Davidson Sports Complex, which is projected to be completed in 1988.

The demand for new facilities is not always easy to accommodate. “I’m really dedicated to the ‘open space’ concept,” Meetze said. “There are certain areas on this campus we just won’t touch to avoid cluttering. I feel that the quality of a campus has a great deal to do with the way students feel and perform. We inherited this campus. You just don’t mess up your inheritance.”

“In my job,” Meetze said, “I can’t just think of developing the campus one piece at a time. Any new development has to be part of a total long-term goal.” This dedication to perfection is evident from Meetze’s past achievements. In the last 25 years, he has designed and directed the planning for the Dana Science Building, the Cunningham Fine Arts Building, Patterson Court, Vail Commons, and the E. H. Little Library. He has also been involved in the renovation of Chambers Building, the Grey Building, the Martin Chemistry Building, the Student Union, and nearly all student dormitories.

Meetze is very interested in the opinions and views of the students regarding his ideas for development. “We often meet with student groups in order to learn the needs of the student body. In the past, I have even had people fill out sheets in order to get feedback.” The decision as to what gets built where is basically a three-part procedure. First, a department expresses a need to Meetze who works it into a feasible project. It is then presented to the president and board of trustees for approval.

Horseback riding added to college curriculum
By KIM GAMBAL

Were you disappointed as you searched eagerly through the fall and winter course selection sheets in hopes of finding horseback riding as a P.E.? Despair no more. Davidson will begin a new and upgraded riding program this spring.

The program has been relocated to a recently built barn called Faith Farm, which is co-owned by Palmer Holt and Susan Gaebelein, in Mt. Mourne (only 10 minutes away). The course will consist of a two-hour session, once a week, continuing through the ten weeks of the term. Gaebelein said that she wants to make the course “fun but educational.” The course will be offered to riders of all abilities and will consist of all aspects of the equestrian sport. While learning to ride, the student will also learn some horse anatomy, basic types of horses, and horseman lingo (which tends to be an alien language to the untrained ear). For example, “Do you know what worming a horse is?”

Aside from adding riding to the list of possible P.E. credits, one added plus will be that it will, for the first time, offer the opportunity to ride to students who do not or cannot take it as a P.E., and to faculty wishing to master the art. One quick phone call to 664-2580 is all it will take, and you will be scheduled for a lesson. Gaebelein will teach group, semi-private, and private lessons at all levels for a minimal fee. Looking ahead to the future, Gaebelein is also hoping to start an inter-collegiate program which will enable those who wish to compete (from beginner to advanced) to do so.approval. If approved, the program is handed back over to Meetze, who sets it in motion. Horses at New Faith Farm, where horseback riding classes will be held this spring term.

(continued from page 1)

"In 1979 I became announcer coordinator, and it was essentially my job to schedule the other announcers, since most of the announcing slots were being filled by paid students."

Current student involvement is somewhat smaller. Clark said, "We've got about eighteen or twenty students working now, as part of a work-study program or as paid announcers.

"I think the role of students is best seen as an opportunity for students to benefit by being involved with a professionally operated service. Unlike a lot of schools, a liberal arts college like Davidson does not have a communications department, radio classes, and so forth, and so while these other stations offer course credit and teaching opportunities, at Davidson there's no tie-in to the curriculum.

"It's not supposed to serve as a training ground for students — if it were, it would have remained a ten-watt operation as it was in the 1970s. As it is now, it allows students an opportunity to take part in a voluntary operation."

Hooper Alexander, a member of the WDAV board of advisors, expressed his opinion: "A year or two ago, when it became apparent that the move was very strongly toward expanding the professional staff and contracting the student staff, I expressed my opinion. I think it is a mistake to decrease student involvement, and I think that WDAV should be an integral part of the educational process," he said.

McDonald said, "I am very excited to have the opportunity to learn about classical music and jazz music and to work with professionals in the area of radio announcing." He added, "I think WDAV does more for the college as a professional station providing quality service than it would as a non-professional station trying to please Davidson College students. They shouldn’t hire lots of student announcers just because they’re students."

An adolescent station

John Clark sees a happy story unfolding at WDAV. "I am tremendously excited and enthusiastic about WDAV right now," he said. "Let’s face it — it’s an adolescent station, only eight years old this summer. We are very fortunate, with this size institution and such a young station, to have such a high quality professional staff."

Clark defined the station’s purpose for the future: "If you listen to the station at all, you’ll come up with a good idea of its purpose. To provide a high quality classical music service has been our mandate since 1978, when the station was upgraded. The other aspect of our purpose is to provide news and an outlook on the arts. We’ve helped publicize things like the Charlotte Light Factory, the Charlotte Symphony, and the Taradiddle Players, because we feel we can contribute through our medium to improving the quality of life in our area. If you listen, you’ll hear us call ourselves, ‘your radio for the arts.’ That’s what we are."

Clark mentioned that WDAV currently receives about $50,000 from the college, and that although that was about 70 percent of the budget in 1978 it is only about 20 percent now and the amount has never been increased. He said, "I think the college’s contribution should be greater than that. Widespread recognition of WDAV can only help the college. The college already has a great reputation, so why can’t the station have the same kind of reputation?

"One thing we'll start in 1987 is program syndication. We will put together a package of concerts that we’ve recorded and syndicate them for broadcast on other area stations so that people in, say, Wilmington, will be able to hear the Charlotte Symphony and other area performers."

"One thing we will not do is to lose our roots in this area. Never will we forsake our community ties. That’s the garden in which we grow."

Parties

DID YOU KNOW That Advertising in The Davidsonian Is Both Inexpensive and Effective? Fraternities Can Advertise Big You Can Advertise Your Friends’ Birthdays... The Possibilities Are Endless!

To Place An Ad:
1) Send it to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson N.C. 28036.
2) Call The Davidsonian at 892-2000 ext. 148.
3) Contact John Elster (Advertising Manager).

All ads must be received by the Tuesday before that Friday’s issue.

Robert Nesbit