Friday, April 18, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN 15

Rusk conference to focus on Central America

David Williams

As last week's “Opinions” articles on Nicaragua indicate, Central America has become a predominant area of concern for Americans who
care about the implications of our foreign policy. The front pages of the nation’s newspapers continue to report on current
developments in countries such as Nicaragua and El Salvador and on the resulting foreign policy initiatives which the President and
Congress have undertaken.

Yet many of us, while expressing growing concern for our foreign policy, have not been provided a clear understanding of
the background behind the problems contemporary Central America faces. Who, after all, are the people of Central America, and what
domestic problems do they face? What role do Indian and Colonial heritages play? What are the causes of the continuous
conflicts which we witness daily, and how can these problems be resolved, so that peace may return to the area?
Finally, how do we as students of the Liberal Arts form an educated and comprehensive view of the current situation?

The Dean Rusk Program will provide the Davidson community a unique opportunity next week to focus on some of these
underlying issues in its first annual conference, entitled “Understanding Central America: The Roots of Conflict.” On Friday, April 25 and
Saturday, April 26, the conference will feature speakers and discussion concerning the historical and human backgrounds of Central America, as
well as women’s issues, cultural issues, liberation theology, the interface of politics and economics, and the future of development in
the area.

Dee Reynolds, who has undertaken a major part in getting the program underway, said he hopes that the conference will
“provide an introduction to understanding the region.” He said, “We're not arguing a thesis with the conference. Instead, we feel
that we need to have a background before we can make intelligent decisions about contemporary issues. We hope the conference
will pose the questions and challenge people to form ideas about Central America.”

The conference will begin next Friday, April 25, with registration from 5 to 5:30 p.m. in the Gallery of Chambers.
At 5:45, Professor Allen Wells will speak on “The Historical Background.” Wells is a specialist in Modern and Colonial Latin
American History at Appalachian State University, and has studied extensively the economic development of the Yucatan, plantations and haciendas of
the Americas, and revolutionary movements. At 7 p.m., the Dean Rusk Program will provide a free dinner to conference participants
at Vail Commons. Then at 8:15, Professor Duncan Earle will present “The Human Background” of Central American issues. Earle currently
teaches anthropology at Dartmouth College and has done extensive field work among the Highland Maya of Guatemala and Mexico. He
has organized cooperatives in both these countries and utilized his fluent knowledge of Quiche Maya while apprenticing himself to a
Maya “shaman.”

On Saturday at 10 a.m., Davidson faculty members and the conference speakers will lead small-group discussions on topics of more
specialized concern, such as “The Legacy for Development” and “Preserving Cultural Identity,” along with several others. In these, students and
faculty will have a chance to interact and contribute their reactions and ideas. Lunch will be served free to participants
from 12 noon to 12:45, and then at 1 p.m. Professor William E. Jackson will close the conference by presenting
an overview of the current Central American situation. Jackson is a Senior Fellow at the University of Arkansas’ Fulbright Institute
of International Relations and is also a former Davidson professor of political science.

The Dean Rusk Program invites and encourages everyone in the Davidson community, including students and faculty, to attend the conference,
which is free to all the participants. The Program needs to know how many people to expect for the conference,
and has asked that everyone participating in the conference take two minutes to fill out the registration blank on the
back of the conference brochure and return it to the Dean Rusk Program offices in the Carolina Inn or to
the Program's box in the faculty mail room. If you have, by chance, lost the brochure that came under your
door last week, you may pick up another one in the Union, the library, or on the Conference bulletin board
in Chambers.

We hope that as many Davidson students and faculty as possible will attend the conference, which is the feature event
for the Dean Rusk Program in its first year. While participating in the Conference will cost you part of Friday
evening and Saturday morning, you will still have a free Friday afternoon, plenty of time to socialize after the conference
recesses Friday night at 9 p.m., and a full Saturday afternoon and evening to do whatever you wish. In addition,
you can even sleep late Saturday morning and still get to the conference on time. And of course, who can
beat a free lunch and dinner?

Central America continues to trouble us. Yet do we really know what this troubled region of the world is really
all about? How shall we deal with this important area of our own hemisphere? Find out at the first Dean
Rusk Conference. You don't want to miss it! Register now!

Williams is a junior political science major from Memphis, Tennessee and is Associate Editor of The Davidsonian.

Letters

Forces, Ranger, or Airborne school? I have. Has he ever participated in Special Ops exercise? I have. Does he have
friends who were in Iran or Grenada? I have, and I believe that I am in a position to dispute
his findings. Mr. Brown points to the tragedy in Iran as proof of Special Ops failings. In fact, the failure
in Iran began years before when the administration in Washington began to dilute the potency of our Unconventional Warfare organization.
Without the proper equipment (gadgets he calls it) and the funds for proper training, it is ludicrous to expect a
mission the scope of that in Iran to take place at the drop of a hat. Only recently have we
started to recognize the importance of Special Ops and started on the road back to true Unconventional Warfare readiness. Brown
says, “Training is still often unplanned and unorganized.” How does he know? In fact, Special Operations training is extremely well
planned and organized. It has to be; real lives are at risk. Yes, there are helicopterFatalities, no one is more
aware of that than the Special Ops soldier. However, a dangerous mission requires dangerous training and Special Ops volunteers understand
the hazards. Considering the significant amount of high-risk training conducted, literally hundreds of parachute jumps a day, the safety record
for Special Ops is far better than Brown would have us believe. Tim Brown believes that our Special Ops troops
turn to the movies and TV for training tips. He must be incredibly gullible. In fact, most Special Ops soldiers
hold such farces as Rambo in very low regard. They understand the complexity and hazards of real Unconventional Warfare. Real
soldiers don’t take their training from the media and real editors don't write about subjects which they don't understand.

Donald Kropp
Asst. Prof. of Military Science

Respect

To the Editors:

While I realize that the recent abundance of articles complaining about the “quality of life” on the Davidson campus may
seem like overkill, I am interested in finding out exactly what my detractors think the “quality of life” on our
campus should reflect about the quality of the institution itself. I do not believe that as students we should suffer
under such an (I'll use the proper word this time) overwhelming workload that we cannot enjoy the years we spend
here at Davidson, but we must understand that the overall environment of the campus should be one which is conducive
to education. The natural companion of education is, of course, study. The intent of my article was not to blow
off steam about my personal gripes with the campus atmosphere. I merely wanted to point out that Davidson students often
act irresponsibly, and they do so at the expense of other students.

I listen to a great deal of music. I listen to a great deal of loud music. The Beatles’ “Revolution”
is one of my favorite songs. I spend a lot of time as far away from my studies as possible
— perhaps, too much, if my grammar (or was it my innate stupidity) is any indication. I cannot, however, understand
the spirit which compels someone to disrupt the campus — be it by noise or by other means — at
the expense of others. I listen to music in my car, in my room, or at my eating house; there
is no reason why constant noise from the area between Watts and Little should keep me awake night after night.
Not to diminish Jimmy Lewis’ article, but at three in the morning, the lake campus is usually quiet. At three
in the morning, I am not reading. I am usually trying to sleep. If I stepped on anyone's toes, I
apologize. I do not, however, retract my statement. (I also do not think that two grammatical errors constitute a “grossly
flawed opinion.” That grammatical errors in my article can flaw my opinion is a non sequitur.) I will, however, make
the following concession. I cannot be sure that the loud, obnoxious females were in fact intoxicated. After three years of
campus life, I have become cynical enough to believe that anyone creating a disturbance after 2 a.m. while holding a
plastic cup is drunk. Please forgive my bias. Mr. Lewis is right. Lighten up! Have a little fun! Do not,
however, expect me to respect your right to have fun if you cannot respect my right to some degree of
freedom from your fun.

Michael C. Stephens

The Court

To the Editors:

Upon hearing the proposal by the Self-Selection Committee, we were amused. For the unenlightened, this proposal involves a seven-week period
during which freshmen will not be allowed on Patterson Court, after which there will be a three-week intensive “dry rush”
for those houses on the bid system. Supposedly, this will increase hall unity, decrease social pressures, and cut down on
alcohol consumption. The freshmen will thus be able to adjust to college life and acclimate themselves to Davidson. We laughed.
Ha.

Point one: increasing hall unity. Is seven weeks really necessary to become intimately acquainted with thirty-two or fewer members of
your hall? We feel that seven weeks of forced exposure to the same people is more likely to have an
opposite effect. Let's face it, if you don’t like someone after being with them for one or two weeks, chances
are you'll like them even less after seven. We also feel that this policy promotes segregation of the freshmen and
will have an adverse effect on their social development, as Patterson Court parties are a major way to get to
know the entire student body. Segregation of the freshmen could also increase the formation of cliques.

Point two: decreasing social pressures. Granted, there will be little or no pressure to party during the seven weeks, but
the committee doesn't seem to realize that there will undoubtedly be ten weeks of partying crammed into the last three
weeks of the term (you know, those insignificant three weeks before finals). And professors think there are too many parties
now! Instead of easing the freshmen into the Davidson social system, the freshmen will be, in a sense, confined for
seven weeks and let loose for three. More than likely, they will then run rampant through the court. They will
party harder than they ever have before, while being “rushed” from all sides by eager eating houses. The fraternities and
eating houses will have also been restricted from “rushing” for those seven weeks. Any violations of this will be subject
to a fine. What constitutes rushing? Must we revamp our entire wardrobes so that there will be no chance of
us engaging in a conversation with a freshman while wearing suggestive court propaganda (otherwise known as house t-shirts)? Who determines
the fine line between friendliness and “rushing?”

Point three: decreasing alcohol consumption. This issue is basically irrelevant. We trust that the Alcohol Policy Committee will define an
adequate alcohol policy at a later time. In addition, the new requirement for party registration should also cut down on
the weekday parties and consumption of alcoholic beverages. Finally, we believe the proposed policy will be detrimental to the social
and mental development of the freshmen. Part of the maturation process is developing the ability to set priorities and budget
one's time. The freshmen should not be denied this opportunity.

Christina Ramsaur
Melinda Smith
Wynn Bowman
