Friday, May 2, 1986  
THE DAVIDSONIAN  

Ken Mobley  

The Davidson Experience  

Here we are at one of the finest liberal arts colleges in America—exploring the recesses of human knowledge, satisfying our needs of social survival, and preparing for the awful onslaught of the “real world.” So what exactly is the Davidson Experience and is it all that it is reputed to be? Without a doubt, my experience thus far at Davidson has been superlative, and at times, even extraordinary. But at the same time, there are certain restrictions of this college that I think are worth mentioning.

A day at Davidson consists mainly of the process of juxtaposing the routine of college work with the creative ability of college students to waste time. The latter being the most inspiring, I'll begin there. To waste time at Davidson consists mainly of socializing in the library, sleeping, or the willful destruction of a massive quantity of brain cells at campus parties. Once again, the latter being the most interesting, I'll address that issue first.

There is a growing concern among Davidson’s faculty, administration, and even students that the school is too concerned with creatively wasting time (i.e., partying). And now, in order to cope with this tendency, it seems as if the college is bestowing upon the student body a wondrous array of rules and regulations designed to nip this dilemma in the bud. I feel that the root of the problem exists in the other half of the juxtaposition that I mentioned in the first line of this paragraph. Davidson is a routine. I would assert that the problem of partying at Davidson is not so much a result of a lack of respect for the ideals of this institution, but rather a natural outgrowth of the structure of the school.

Davidson is small, Southern, traditional. Classes meet every day, with reviews scheduled at almost always the same time—during the dreaded midterm week and at the end of the term. The average day is rather predictable: classes in the morning, studying or relaxing in the afternoon, and studying or relaxing at night (depending on the amount of either one accomplished in the afternoon, of course). The next morning you scrape yourself from your loft and pour yourself into a desk for a lecture and begin again. The intensity of the workload also serves to magnify this routine. With the amount of brain cells used on the academics at Davidson, one should feel justified wasting some here and there. The outlet of such a routine results not only in a viable social life on Patterson Court, but also serves to fuel such organizations as the YSSC, SGA, and the Student Union. The outlet at parties just isn’t as neatly channeled at times.

The routine of Davidson has other consequences besides the outgrowth of partying. In an institution where life has become mechanical, creativity often becomes stifled. Davidson is heading in that direction. One can argue that there are opportunities such as Hobart Park or music groups, but I think one would be surprised at the number of people who have stopped practicing the piano or stopped writing plays and poetry since arriving. The opportunities are available but most of these organizations are dominated by the same groups and don't gain much support from the rest of the campus. The same people who appear in the plays also are in the dance troupe, choral groups, and write for creative journals. Academics at Davidson don't readily promote creativity either. One can only be so creative on a Humes paper that is due the day after a biology review and two days before a history midterm. The mind that is tuned at Davidson is the analytical mind: one that is adept at adding equations and analyzing historical data.

Naturally, these problems are not items that can be miraculously cured over the course of the summer, but are long-term concerns that Davidson might address. The intent of this article is not to point any fingers or to offer any great solutions. These are just my own personal observations on some of the facets of the Davidson Experience. Our college is a fantastic institution, but it is not perfect. In answering such problems as the social life at Davidson, I really don’t think the solutions will come through regulations as much as it will come from looking at the structure of the school. Everyone agrees that there is a problem, but too many restrictions on the social life may only serve to stifle the students. We do not need any more rituals. In this sense, I hope that the ritual of Davidson does not ruin the Davidson Experience.

Mobley is a sophomore from Winston Salem, NC  

Imagine the shoe on the other foot  

Lee Bock  

In response to Grant Morain’s article on the gay support group being formed here at Davidson, I would like to examine some of the points addressed in that editorial and present a different point of view. Many people are concerned that aFine reputable educational institution such as Davidson College could be sponsoring a group which is supporting homosexuality. Homosexuality being (a) illegal (or the act thereof) and (b) immoral. On the contrary, I think an institution which truly cares about its students could only take the route of supporting such a group. First of all, the act of homosexuality is illegal in North Carolina. That is true. Of course, sex in any position other than the missionary position, oral sex, and spitting in the street are also illegal in most states. However, bringing these things into light does not negate the point that Grant has made: it simply makes the charge a little less serious. Still, homosexuality is on the books as a crime and there is a Davidson group which is giving support to those who are inclined to engage in such activity. I am not going to evade the issue by saying that just because the support group gives support to homosexuals does not mean that the homosexuals actually practice homosexuality — this is absurd. The question is: should a group, using the name of Davidson College, be supporting people that might intentionally go out and do something illegal? In answer to that question, I would like to inquire as to the purpose of gathering a supposedly intellectually gifted group of people (such as that at Davidson College) if it is not to reevaluate society and seek reform where it is needed? Perhaps the Davidson Gay Support Group is suggesting that the act of homosexuality should not be illegal. Perhaps what goes on in one’s own home, just as long as it does not infringe upon the rights of others, is one’s own business. However, Grant himself said that the support group is not implicitly in itself doing anything illegal. Being gay is not against the law, the homosexual act is. The support group is not directly encouraging any illegal act. So anyone who is worried about the group’s breaking the law and using Davidson's name can rest easily. As far as homosexuality’s being immoral is concerned, I cannot argue with anyone who has chosen to interpret things from the biblically literal standpoint, as Grant has. I can only put things into perspective. Retaining close ties with the Presbyterian Church, as Davidson has resolved to do, can be a very tricky thing. For example, Paul says that women should not speak in church. I question any alumnus, trustee, or student who would tell a female that she may not speak at DCPC because Davidson College is attempting to maintain ties with the Presbyterian Church. I can cite further examples. Patterson Court operates under the auspices of Davidson College, yet it certainly allows many activities which could be interpreted as immoral from the conservatively religious point of view. Intentionally harming one’s body is a sin. Shall we remove the cigarette machine from the upstairs of the Union? If we are going to interpret everything literally, there is going to have to be a major overhaul around here. But why is it that we only seem to interpret things literally when it is convenient for us? In closing, I would like to leave Davidson with some things to consider. Being gay is not a choice that someone makes; as a matter of fact, experts are becoming more and more convinced that it may be biological. At any rate, people are not gay with the intention of being rebellious. It can be hell for them. That is why you do not know who they are. That is why there is a need for support groups. If they could be “normal,” and not have to suffer the persecution that they do, I’m sure they would. Gay people are gay because it is to them a natural inclination. It is the only way they can live and be happy. It is not a sickness; that is, it cannot be cured. Try to imagine if the shoe were on the other foot — if heterosexuals were in the minority — if you were denied the right to love members of the opposite sex. People who think that Davidson should be void of homosexuals make me curious. People who say to gays, and those who support them, “you should have never come here in the first place,” seem to have an interesting idea of what Davidson should be. I've always thought that the purpose of a liberal arts education was to learn to deal with people different from ourselves — to gain many different perspectives. At least that is what I wrote in my essay on my application to Davidson. To think that spending four years in a homogenous environment is going to prepare you for the outside world is a little faulty. Because they are out there: gays and straights, blacks and whites, men and women. You might as well learn about them and try to learn to live with them while you are here.

Bock is a sophomore from Candor, NC