a

Friday, October 3, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The thinking student's horoscope —

By MADAME KARMA NORRABI YAJISHI

After a one-week hiatus, the all-seeing Madame has returned to guide you in your quest for social and economic prosperity.
No, I wasn’t cancelled.

ARIES:

Congratulations on redeeming yourself in the eyes of that special someone. What you did with that cow...! Just remember, the
Rusk semi-formal is tonight... go for a Cushman! Your lucky rugby position: hooker in the scrum.

TAURUS:

It’s time for you to go on a rampage! That’s right! Everything is set for you to fly completely off
the handle! Have lunch at... the Union!! Your lucky color: red... no, blue!

GEMINI:

Whatever you do, don’t involve yourself politically in any way whatsoever for the next two weeks. Nobody in the SGA
likes you, and there’s nothing you can do about it — blame it on Jupiter. This is your week to
take up clogging. Yee haw.

LEO:

If the Sun were a soccer ball in your hand, the Earth would be a sunflower seed 100 yards away,
Pluto would be in Statesville, and the nearest star would be in Alaska. So don’t go to Statesville... too cold.
Lucky dish at the Commons: are you kidding?

VIRGO:

You’re going to have a great week this week. Great score on that test... fantastic grade on that paper... good
times aplenty this weekend. Stay out late and write lots of checks. Your lucky amount? $108.52.

LIBRA:

Bad time to be a Libra, but good time to get a tan. Skip town, leave no forwarding address, and
change your sign. Look out for that stuff on the sidewalk and don’t forget to stop and smell the roses.
Whoever dies with the best tan, wins.

SCORPIO:

Your flickerball team cannot lose. Take on everyone... simultaneously. Work hard, think big. (Heck, give Donald Trump a call!) Wear
a little polyester — just for kicks! — and watch for uneven wear on that left front tire.

SAGITTARIUS:

It’s time you came to grips with the fact that he’s just not interested. You missed your chance during the
Autumnal Equinox. Take heart, though — the tea leaves may say no no, but the cosmic coffee grinds say this
is the week.

CAPRICORN:

You will be in top form this week as the pendulum of romance swings your way. Pursue the seemingly impossible!
Ask her back to your room for a sparkling non-alcoholic beverage — because, quite frankly, that I.D. will never work.
Your lucky dorm: Cannon.

AQUARIUS:

It’s International Week, and The Man in the Moon insists you participate! Set your watch to Siberian time, break out
the old Kimono, and learn the Swahili for, “What’s your sign?” Your lucky tape: Hampton, ‘85 (Wednesday).

PISCES:

Eclipse! Today! Invest your financial holdings accordingly, and it could mean big dividends and a house on Easy Street!! Best
bet? The “I Survived The Davidson Eclipse” T-shirt market. Classic ‘70s.

What besotted adventures will our heroes have here? Stay tuned for Coleridge’s Rime of the Ancient Mariner.
