Friday, April 4, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

11

U.S. actions in Nicaragua necessary

David Host

Critics of the Reagan Administration's Central American policies express fears of “another Vietnam.” They argue that American interference in the
region, especially the support of Nicaraguan “contras,” will lead to another escalation into war. The Reagan policies, in their full
implementation, will lead away from American commitment of forces, however. A negligence of expanding communist influence in the region will
result in the necessity of American forces.

White House staff member Patrick Buchanan has described the Administration’s policies as “a dose of prevention.” As distasteful as they
might seem, administration actions, such as the support of the contras and the 1984 mining of Nicaraguan harbors, have provided
effective prevention of the extension of communist influence. Immediately following the mining incident, the Salvadoran rebels, who had vowed never
to negotiate with the Duarte government, suddenly requested a dialogue. The pipeline of Nicaraguan aid to the rebels, which originated
in the Soviet Union and Cuba, had been severed. When, under pressure, the administration ended this practice, the rebels resumed
their fight.

The Administration has replaced the mining tactic with aid to Nicaraguan “contras.” This policy, if approved in full, will also
lessen Nicaraguan ability to extend its influence. Although the contras may not overthrow the present government, they will provide enough
resistance to keep the government’s full attention on preserving its own revolution, rather than extending it. The United States would
not be involving itself in an “open-ended commitment.” It would need to support the contras only as long as it
takes to stabilize progressive, democratic governments, such as that of El Salvador’s Jose Napoleon Duarte.

Allowing the crisis to fester unchecked poses a dangerous alternative. As the recent Nicaraguan invasion of Honduras after the House
rejected contra aid shows, the Communist advance would continue. American interests, such as the Panama Canal, would become endangered. As
American economic health and security become threatened, American forces would become necessary. The crisis will have developed to a point
at which preventive measures will be useless. We must not allow the fear of another Vietnam to cloud our judgment
of how to prevent it.

Host is a freshman from Lexington, Kentucky.

---

ROTC

Gateway to a great way of life.

ATTENTION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING MAJORS!

SPEND THE SUMMER AND/OR 1986-87 SCHOOL YEAR IN SUNNY SPAIN. Quality Instruction at Economy Prices: Business Administration, Hispanic Studies, Arts
and Sciences. GRADUATE COURSES IN HISPANIC STUDIES offered in July. Contact: Admissions, St. Louis University, 221 N. Grand Blvd. St.
Louis, MO. 63103. Toll-free tel.: (800) 325-6666.

The Air Force has openings for young men and women majoring in selected science and engineering fields like Aeronautical, Aerospace,
General and Electrical Engineering, Mathematics, Physics and Computer Technology. To help prepare for one of these, Air Force ROTC offers
two and four year programs of study which will defray some of your college costs. After completion of the AFROTC
requirement, and upon your graduation, you'll be commissioned an officer in the Air Force. Then comes responsibility, experience in your
specialty with some of the best people and facilities in the world, and a mission with a purpose. You'll get
excellent starting salary, medical and dental care, 30 days vacation with pay beginning your first year, and more.

Look into the Air Force ROTC program right away. See what's in it for you. See how you can serve
your country in return.

---

ATTENTION CHARLOTTE RESIDENTS:

Excellent summer Day Camp counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 9-12,
guiding them in their physical, mental and spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to help
each individual child develop his or her potential should apply. One must have the ability to teach in one or
more of our specialized activities. College students, teachers, and coaches should apply. CAMP ADVENTURE, SR. is located 17 miles southeast
of Charlotte, N.C. For information write or call Camp Adventure, Sr., One Thunderbird Lane, Clover, S.C., 29710, (803) 831-2977.

---

This warning will never be seen again.

---

WANTED:

Male summer counselors needed for coed resident camp located on Lake Wylie. Openings for WSI's, Water Skiing, Sailing, Gymnastics, Tennis
and General Sports. Contact: Camp Thunderbird, One Thunderbird Lane, Clover, S.C. 29710 (803) 831-2121.

---

AMERICAN LUNG ASSOCIATION

The Christmas Seal People
