Friday, March 14, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

11

Men’s and women’s tennis teams begin seasons

Men stand with 3-3 record \ Women’s team 2-1

By MIKE ADAMS

The Davidson men’s tennis team got off to a rocky start with three straight losses, but turned things around with
three victories to even their record through the first week of the season.

The Wildcats opened with a lopsided 9-0 loss to Duke, a perennial top twenty team. Consecutive losses to North Carolina
State and Penn State followed. Coach Jeff Frank said that Davidson played poorly in the N.C. State and Penn State
matches. The Cats played inside against Penn State, a team especially tough on indoor surfaces.

Davidson’s turn-around began against William and Mary. An improved team effort led to a 9-0 victory in which all of
the individual matches were close.

The Cats followed up with 6-3 victories over The College of Charleston and West Chester. The College of Charleston is
one of the top five NAIA programs in the country and fields a “very tough” team from top to bottom
according to Frank. Davidson beat them 4-2 in singles and 2-1 in doubles to win a close match.

The singles matches carried the Cats in their victory over West Chester. After winning five out of six singles matches,
Davidson could manage only one doubles victory.

Sophomore Jim Thompson plays number one singles, with junior Hayes Dallas, sophomore Bill Young, senior Craig Hall, junior Michael Meyer,
and freshman Sebastian Koch finishing out the line-up.

The doubles teams consist of Young and Dallas at number one, junior Trip Caldwell and Thompson at number two, and
Hall and Meyer at number three.

Davidson has been hurt by injuries and illness so far this year. Sophomore Rick Hodge, who played number four singles
last year, is out indefinitely with a knee injury. Craig Hall is just getting back to full strength after injuries
kept him out of two of the first three matches and freshman Blake O’Brien, a solid doubles player, is out
with an illness.

Coach Frank is optimistic about the Cats' chances of improving on last year’s 21-10 record. He said the Cats have
a competitive but very young squad. Furman and UT-Chattanooga will again be the teams to beat in the Southern Conference
and both have returned strong teams.

Davidson will play three matches at home next week. They will host Amherst on Monday, Wooster on Friday, and Harvard
on Saturday, all at 2 p.m.

By PAM HARMANN

This year’s version of the women's tennis team is marked by a balance of experienced upperclassmen and aggressive freshmen. Although
their record is 1-2, coach Caroline Brown claims this year's team could be the strongest team ever at Davidson.

The first loss came at the hands of a strong North Carolina State team, 9-0. One must realize that N.C.
State is an ACC Division I university with scholarships, whereas Davidson will compete for the national championship at the Division
III level.

Last Sunday, March 9, the team experienced its first victory 9-0 over Haverford College. This Tuesday they fell to Duke
9-0, once again a strong ACC Division I school. This weekend the tennis team travels to Eastern Carolina, and on
Tuesday will meet Rutgers here at Davidson.

Brown feels comfortable about Eastern Carolina, a team Davidson traditionally defeats 9-0. According to Brown, the only Division I schools
that Davidson cannot beat are those in the ACC. A goal this year is to close the gap between Davidson
and those schools.

The number one slot on the team is filled by sophomore Amy McNelis, followed by freshman Marion Stone at number
two. Senior captain Lolly Johnson plays number three. Freshmen Jane Price and Alice Stubbs are currently numbers four and five
respectively, followed by junior Libby Sanders at number six. With Stubbs and Price out with illnesses, junior Debbie Podolin and
freshman Martha Johnson moved into the line-up. The balance of experience and new talent makes for good chemistry, good enough
for Brown to say, “This is definitely our strongest team ever and we will be in an excellent position to
chase the national championship.”
