_ Wednesday, December 10, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN — 7.

ide Art _.

William Street | I Will End This Fine Form

On William Street by night Listen to me Darling,
There explodes an electric reverie — I have words for you,

A rich and gaudy masque of the sensual here and now — Words of pain and intensity
An image of the sickness of change.

——-— They have said all that there is to say——-—- __-———
Of the life and love, death and hate,
The currents of our minds afloat
With their time-borne reckonings.

Heaving, metallic emblems of our age
Sputtering, parade with evocative yellow, lurid eyes agape
To feed on fatted, vacant smiles.

A plastic Venus twists her vision So I begin with the end.
Across the evening procession

To gaze into a vacuous window

Which offers a cruel sentience (and no smile)

The tears in things call me,
I cannot face them.
Your light beckons to me,

Knowing of her guilt. I cannot bear it.
And so...
What have the houses felt through these shifting times? I will end this fine form.
Forgive me.
The homes stand sentinelled to a vaguely remembered
Tremulously beautiful image Anonymous

Elusive — meshed in the mire of time.

Staring into the fractured light of misted windows
Seeing the segmented darkness slide and shift
Like the shattered souls within

I am reminded of the decay of goodness

Which permeates the mind -

The vision of a dying man across a window -
Like one drowning beneath a thickened, cold prison
Of ice —

He claws and mutes a scream.

(I can hardly see his face the ice is so thick!)

In Memory, Pain in Pleasure

Burning sun, sharp waves, bright sand.
Burning brown eyes, cutting curves, blinding blonde hair.

I hear the warpage of echoes Those are scorching days, blistering days, painful days.
Passing between the boundaries of separate, locked rooms Those were soothing days, blissful days, loving days.
In the dim deadness of the homes.

Ken Bogert
John M. Gillikin

Sure, she was smart.
She had charm From the edge of the burning city, we watched our Savior walk away

into the desert. Someone yelled after him, but he was already too far
gone. And besides, his god would have turned him into a pillar of plastic.
So he kept walking. Finally the sun glinted a couple of times on that
leather jacket, and his black hair disappeared over the last dune. But we
could still hear his voice. He was singing that song he wrote for us a long
time ago, “Love me tender, Love me true, All my dreams fulfilled, For
my darling I love you, And I always will.” Then he did “Jailhouse
Rock,” and, for an encore, he finished up with “Our Lips Are Sealed.”
Then the whole city went up in flames and that was that.

Her face was beyond compare.

But her shins — My God her shins!
They say you never go back

But how, oh how could I ever leave...
I LOVE YOU.

Fallow Plenty

Torrey Hyatt
Untitled No.3

Darned if I could not break through
yon barricade
yon rootin’ tootin’
yon mighty five-and-twenty! I got a haircut,
Wish fulfillment never smelled so sweet, About a quarter to five,
nor did that little ray of the sun-moon, strong. I got a haircut,
His was a world of unkempt promises And now I’m barely alive.
Mine one of half realized rationales — I got a haircut,
As it were. And my hair — it’s all over the floor.
Fallow Plenty — Anonymous
