Wednesday, December 17, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Belov brings Russia to life at Davidson
By AARON LEVINE

One of the new faces on the Davidson campus this term is that of Mrs. Fania Belov, a native Russian
who is teaching an introductory Russian course this winter. Mrs. Belov, originally from Moscow and now living in Winston-Salem, has
taught Russian to English-speaking students for several years after leaving the Soviet Union in 1981.

Mrs. Belov is an actor by trade. Her method of teaching Russian draws on this background. In class, for the
first couple of weeks, she gives out situations and the students act them out. These situations are from everyday life
and eventually the students feel free and natural in speaking. For now, there is no alphabet to learn, no reading.
These things cannot be considered until one has mastered speaking. Belov feels her students have been doing quite well.

Overcoming insecurity is an important part of the class. Belov said, “With language, music and so forth we feel insecure...
so we need to trust the teacher. To do so, we create a situation where one can express him or
herself naturally... This eases insecurity.” Belov went on to say this insecurity can cause misunderstanding and mistrust. The best way
to create an understanding between two cultures is for mutual understanding of the languages of other cultures. She hopes that
the knowledge her students gain will help them to better understand the U.S.S.R.

In her eyes, the problem between America and the Soviet Union is one of a lack of communication resulting in
a lack of understanding. One thing she complains about is the misinformation both countries have of each other. Belov is
enthusiastic about her teaching and would like to teach an intermediate level course in the spring. She would especially like
to see an eventual full-scale Russian studies program.

Dean of Faculty Robert Williams stated that a full Russian and Soviet Studies program is feasible. Four professors: Louis Ortmayer
and Jack Perry in political science, and Earl Edmondson and Williams himself in history, have the necessary background to be
with such a program. All that is needed is a full-time professor of Russian language and literature. If a program
does formulate, it would be a concentration and not a major.

Belov graduated from the Moscow State Academy School of Circus and Variety Arts in 1970, and has appeared with dramatic
groups such as the Moscow State Music Hall Theater and the Moscow Clown and Pantomime Theater. For a number of
years now she has been an internationally known actress, clown, and stand-up comedian. She had her own radio and television
shows in the U.S.S.R., and since in America has appeared on “P.M. Magazine” and “Captain Kangaroo.” As to why she
and her acting husband left the Soviet Union, she says: “We were well-known pro-

Phonathon’s $149,000 effort is a success
By GEORGE KURANI

Over 400 students participated in the annual Phonathon to benefit Davidson’s Annual Fund Dec. 1-11. In what has been called
an extremely successful service project, the students raised over $149,000 for the school. The majority of the work in the
phonathon came through the calling of Davidson alumni and parents of students currently enrolled. Before starting to make the calls,
all volunteers were given a half-hour training session that gave pointers on how to approach the person being asked to
donate. From 7:00-9:45 p.m., freshmen and members from every house on Patterson Court manned 35 phones. The three student chairmen
were: junior DavidHandy, senior Christy Hayes and sophomore John Black. Individual house chairmen were chosen and trained by these three.
“I think that the Phonathon went incredibly well,” said Handy. “We raised an impressive amount of donations through the hard
work and commitment put in by all students who worked with us.”

“We were really impressed with the devotion that was put into the Phonathon this year,” said Hayes. “The increase in
the amount of money that we raised this year compared to previous years is a reflection of the students’ commitment
to raising money for the school,” she continued. “Also, it makes it easier for all of us that many people
enjoy speaking with a Davidson student since they can ask questions about how the college is doing.”

Gracia Slater, director of the living endowment, and Hunter Roddey, living endowment assistant, organized and prepared for the students when
they came to work on the Phonathon project. Roddey said that the Phonathon has raised more than $149,000, not counting
people who said they would contribute in the future. Roddey said that this usually brings in several thousand dollars more.
“Since we had already raised more money for the Annual Fund than in previous years,” said Roddey, “we had expected
not to raise as much during the Phonathon. But the students really turned it around by working so hard and
bringing in new students every night. It made things exciting for us,” he continued. “Things couldn’t have gone any better.”

Part of the reason that the Phonathon did so well could be a result of the competitive spirit raised between
Patterson Court houses. Many houses cancelled dinner and brought enough people, according to organizers, to work every phone. In the
final tally, the two houses with the largest totals were SAE, which finished first, and KA, finishing in second place.
Both houses raised over $26,000.

All of the money raised by the Phonathon will go into the Annual Fund, which supplies the financial support for
running the college. The Annual Fund contributes to three main organizations: the Living Endowment, the Wildcat Club, and WDAV. While
the students’ tuition supplies 60 percent of the money needed to support the college, the Annual Fund gives the rest.

---

The ReOpening of PYair Designers Studio
Call 892-7952 or 892-8894 for Appointments

HAIRCUT & STYLE
$5 off (Male or Female)

PERMANENT WAVE
1/2 off

CHILDREN’S HAIRCUT & STYLE
$3 off

Thurs-Sat 10-6

---

“Let us be your connection to great Pizza!”

---

KEY WORDS
Computerized Word Processing Service

FAST TURNAROUND - ACCURATE
- Reports/Papers
- Mailing Labels
- Price Lists
- Personalized & Repetitive Letters
- Contracts
- Specifications
- Manuals
- Catalogs/Directories
- Disc Storage
- Addressing & Mailing

TERRY GAILEY
Huntersville, NC
Special discounts for Davidson students and faculty

---

Sandwiches Pizza
Mon. - Thurs. 11:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.
Fri. and Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.
Sunday 4:30 p.m. - 10:00 p.m.
892-9046

---

Professional people. We had the high society life and plenty of money. It seems like everything was fine, but not
artistic freedom. After the two had decided to apply for exit visas from the Soviet Union, life suddenly got difficult
for them — they lost their jobs, their names were removed from the programs, and their pay was cut. In
this country, both Belovs are associated with the North Carolina School for the Arts in Winston-Salem. She currently teaches acting
and clowning at its School of Drama. Not too long ago, she began to teach Russian privately in her home.
A former student of hers recommended her to Davidson, and eventually she was contacted by the director of Center for
Special Studies, Dr. John Brockway.
