2 News Summary

Flu wave sends students to infirmary

College Physician W.T. Williams said he has diagnosed 20 to 30 flu or flu-related cases daily at the infirmary Monday through Wednesday of this week, “not an unusual number [of cases] for the flu season. “This [incidence of flu cases] seems to be in keeping with the cases in the rest of the state and country,” Williams said. “In January or February of every year,” he said, “we see usually a wave of flu. This year’s started about two weeks ago; the largest number registered in the infirmary on Monday of this week.” Williams characterized the disease as “the influenza you see every winter.” He noted that Davidson's current cases generally involve a two-day illness with an average temperature of 101 degrees. The rate of secondary infection (bronchitis, pneumonia, or other influenza-caused sicknesses) is 10 percent or less, according to Williams. “Whenever you have a flu epidemic, there is the possibility of secondary infections, but the likelihood with this particular virus seems to be lower than we have seen in times past,” Williams said. He cited a January 1981 flu outbreak during which the infirmary diagnosed 300 new cases in a single day with average temperatures of 102 to 104 degrees. During that outbreak, the Dean of Students’ office canceled classes. Dean of Students Will Terry said there is no set policy regarding cancellation, but “We just go by the doctor's recommendations.” Williams said, “The basic treatment (for flu) is supportive — lots of fluids, as much rest as possible, antihistamines or decongestants. An important thing is that it is strongly recommended that aspirin not be used because of F.D.A. statements regarding its association with Reye's syndrome.” Williams suggested using acetaminophen (a category including such brands as Tylenol) rather than aspirin.

Kappa Sigma — continued from page 1

“Form a group, get some service projects done, and then we'll probably be given our charter by the end of this year,” he said. Dean of Students Will Terry said the process to be followed by the freshmen hoping to obtain a house for the Kappa Sigma fraternity would involve a formal application to the Council on Campus and Religious Life. The council would then make a recommendation to the president who would make the ultimate decision. The Business Office would also be required to make a recommendation. Terry said Kappa Sigma will not be one of the choices presented to freshmen when they make their self-selection decisions Sunday, Feb. 9. “They will not be a part of the self-selection system,” he said. “They are really only beginning to organize, and it would be up to the Committee on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) to decide that, or to advise me. I can conceive that they [the CCRL] would say ‘yes.’ I can also conceive that the Kappa Sigs would not be ready to move into a house next fall, and would need a period of self-selection to get enough members.” He said, “They at this point have no status with the college. They're just a group of people — like those who wanted to start the Spencer House last year.” Spencer House was formed at self-selection time last year. It took over the house formerly occupied by Fannie & Mable, a defunct coed eating club which folded last winter. Terry said he cannot be sure how the process will turn out for the Kappa Sigma hopefuls: “Those freshmen who are going to cast their lot with trying to form a new fraternity on campus are to be commended for taking the risk and turning down the opportunity to join a house when there is a possibility that the new house will not be organized.” Reese Boyd, a freshman interested in Kappa Sigma, expressed his faith in his group's prospects: “I have all the confidence — from the people that I've been around, from the people that I've talked to, and just the comments that I’ve heard — that Kappa Sigma will materialize.” He said, “It’s true that self-selection will be something of a day of reckoning for Kappa Sigma. If everybody who shows interest in Kappa Sigma backs out and does pledge with another fraternity then obviously it won't happen. But I have a lot of confidence in the guys that are a part of the effort to form Kappa Sigma that they're wholly committed to the fraternity.” Boyd said he definitely saw a lot of support for Kappa Sigma among freshmen males, and that he believed in its eventual success. “This year I think it’s going to be a very slow process, but in my sophomore year and the years on down the road I foresee it becoming not only an integral part of my life, but an integral part of Patterson Court and the college community.” He said Kappa Sigma’s novelty was its most attractive point: “That's really the great thing about Kappa Sigma — it’s something new and it’s going to be innovative, and it may be a very exciting element, something probably that Patterson Court needs right now — a new, invigorating force. I think it can be a very exciting opportunity not only for the people that are actually involved, but for the other people on Patterson Court, too.” There is some concern, however, that a seventh Davidson fraternity might continue an apparent trend towards single-sex eating. PAX President Janice Evans said: “It’s something

Friday, January 31, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Committee screens Self-Selection

By MARGOT MIMS

Could moving the fraternities off campus be the solution? This question and others are being considered by the recently formed Patterson Court Selection Study Committee. The 10-man committee, according to chairman Dan Murrey, “is looking for a system that will be flexible enough to meet the needs of both the freshmen and the fraternities and eating houses, and still remain in accordance with the philosophy of the college.” He said the ultimate goal of the committee is to make an honest system. The committee is not connected, however, with the already established Self-Selection Committee. According to Murrey, the present system seems to “lack the spirit” of self-selection that was apparent in past years.

Registrar

Information from the Federal Government on subjects ranging from agriculture to zoology is available at Depository Libraries across the nation. You can visit these libraries and use theThat concerns me. There has been a definite trend towards single-sex eating during recent years; after all, Spencer House was formed because Warner Hall and Rusk were bursting at the seams, and it’s growing by leaps and bounds, too.” She said: “When I was a freshman there were five coed eating houses. Now I'm a senior, and there are only two — and one of them is having serious problems. I feel that Kappa Sigma could definitely take something from PAX, and maybe from Emanon, too. I'm glad to have had a chance to be a part of coed eating at Davidson, and I'd be disappointed to see it go.”

Evans also expressed concern over the apparent lack of available information concerning Kappa Sigma: “I ask freshmen if they're thinking about eating at PAX, and they say, ‘well, there’s this Kappa Sigma thing...’ I ask them if they’re sure it'll get off the ground. They say, ‘It’s already off the ground.’ I think it’s so far off the ground that it’s up in the air, nobody can find out anything about it. I'm concerned for freshmen males who might wind up out in the cold if Kappa Sigma falls through.”

Emanon President Gina Trip-Sue Ross, a member of the committee with a nine-year perspective, accounts this decrease in spirit to possibly the result of changing desires, the increase of conservatism, or the shift toward national student acceptance of fraternities. Freshman John McCauley believes that freshmen are being deceived by the term self-selection. He said, “Prepare people for what they are really going to get, don’t lie to them.” Ross said, “We need to have clear guidelines.” Any social institution which combines two antithetical social pressures into one system always creates tension and pressure. She said she believes it is worth the effort to provide the students the opportunity to choose where they eat. “Technically the freshman has freedom to choose a house,” said Be@e Government.

Ormation to Youlett said, “I think the coed houses would feel threatened by the appearance of another fraternity. I guess I would like to think that there isn’t a need for another fraternity on campus, and that the people coming to Davidson could fit into the court system as it exists now. But the incoming freshmen will, of course, be the people to determine if we need a new fraternity.”

Terry said, “Yes, I do see this [Kappa Sigma] as a move towards segregation by gender on the court, and it bothers me. I would much like to see the maintenance of the two coed eating houses this year. I am very heartened by the initiatives Emanon has taken this year, for instance.” He said he believes Patterson Court should not necessarily be the home of a static social system: “There's always this hue and cry about a house closing, and fears about the system crumbling, and voices of doom — my feeling is that as long as it is not expensive, that if we really want a social system that is responsive to the needs of the students we will continue to see change on the court. And that doesn’t bother me. We don’t have to have a rigid social system that’s never supposed to change.”

Of the question of whether or not the Court “needs” a new fraternity, Terry said, “I think that is a very cogent question — one that the CCRL will have to look at. If the Kappa Sigs can really put together a group of people who are enthusiastic and can carry this thing off, then maybe that says there is a need.” He said, “I think personally that fraternities have many things to offer, but they also have some horrendous liabilities. They perpetuate some good things, and they perpetuate some things that are highly undesirable.”

The status of the fraternity of Phi Gamma Delta (Fiji), Davidson’s only off-campus fraternity, also has some bearing upon the move to bring back Kappa Sigma. Fiji president Jim Kelley said, “The reason why we left campus was self-selection, because with self-selection our national wouldn't let us stay on campus without a bid system. Now there's been talk, at the same time all this Kappa Sig business is going on, that a bid system may be coming back, that self-selection may be thrown out, or that the houses may have the option to either self-select or use bids. Should the college go back to a bid system, then we would be allowed to move back on campus, and that is something that we believe we would like to do.”

He said, “If Kappa Sig comes along and occupies the ATO house, and the campus does move towards a bid system, then we're kind of left without a house. We think that this should be a very real issue in the question of whether or not the Kappa Sigs get a house in the first place. They ought to wait until this issue of bids is through. If the college does get rid of self-selection and we're stuck without a house, I just don’t think that it would be very fair since we've been around and established for so many years.”

Terry said, “I hadn’t the least idea that the Fijis wanted to come back on campus. That is, of course, one of the things the CCRL will have to consider.” He said, “Whatever we decide, someone will be unhappy.”