Friday, February 7, 1986

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Retired professor studies Southeastern maps

By NELLE McCORKLE

What Davidson retired professor’s name has been called “synonymous with North Carolina?” Dr. William Patterson Cumming ’21, former English department
chairman, received this title in the citation for an honorary degree from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
According to UNC, British scholars consider Cumming and North Carolina one and the same because of Cumming’s research exploring 18th-century
cartography of America. For many international map scholars, Cumming’s name might be synonymous with “Southeast.” “A map of the southeastern
U.S. is always designated by its ‘Cumming number,’ that is, the number assigned to it by Dr. Cumming in his
definitive work, The Southeast in Early Maps [1957],” according to Dr. Mary Beaty. The Economist called his collaborative 1976 Fate
of a Nation “a triumph of historical book-making.”

Since his retirement from the college in 1968, Cumming has written and collaborated on ten books. His current project, a
book on sixteenth-century North Carolina Coast cartography, awaits publication by the Quadricentennial Commission of the State of North Carolina. “It’s
a two-hundred-page book attempting to show why the first English colonists chose the North Carolina coast,” Cumming said. “Hatteras is
one of the world’s three most dangerous coasts because of the meeting there of the Gulf Stream warm current and
Arctic current which causes constant turbulence,” he said. “Elizabethan sailors were not aware of its dangers.” Cumming spent two years
preparing the work, commissioned by the State.

Cumming’s interest in maps began in 1931. “Mrs. Cumming and I were on our honeymoon, walking down Charing Cross Road.
I looked into the window of a print shop and saw a map of Carolina.” Cumming noticed a desert covering
a large strip of the state (stretching from what is now Lancaster, S.C. to Raleigh) marked “Arenosa Desert.” The map
also included a savannah, covering present Davidson and Charlotte, identified as underwater from October to April. Mrs. Cumming said, “He
said to me, ‘Let’s buy this map and find out why they made such queer mistakes.’” Cumming later learned that
this seventeenth-century map, now hanging in his study over his desk, resulted from the first recorded exploration of the region.
“He’s just a person who’s got to be doing research,” said Mrs. Cumming.

Also an English professor, Mrs. Cumming taught at Smith and Queens Colleges following her graduation from Oxford; Registrar Sue Ross
was among her Queens students. Mrs. Cumming participates in her husband’s research; the pair spent 1958-59 traveling “14,000 miles in
a little Volkswagen on the continent” to gather photographic copies of the earliest maps of America, she said. Cumming had
been awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship to make this search for early documents on American discovery, which resulted in numerous books
and articles. Among the “amazing adventures” the Cummings have encountered was the discovery of the earliest known map of the
American Revolution. At Alnwick Castle in England, ancestral home of the Percys, the Cummings found a 1751 map of Virginia
made by Peter Jefferson, Thomas Jefferson’s father; only two other copies were known. The present Duke of Northumberland ushered the
Cummings into the billiard room and spread the Jefferson map out on the billiard table. “Bill became enormously excited,” Mrs.
Cumming said. “He became so excited he explained very effectively the rarity of the map. I guess the Duke decided
we were trustworthy, because he said, ‘My ancestor, Earl Percy, was in command of British troops in Boston in April
1775. He liked maps. His maps are here in the black box he put them in when he returned in
1777. Would you care to see them?’ Clutching the edge of the billiard table for support, we replied, ‘Yes, please,
your Grace.’”

One of the many maps in Earl Percy’s black box is the first known map of the Battle of Concord,
labeled in part, “Showing the Place of the late Engagement between the Kings [sic] Troops and the provincials.” Another of
Percy’s maps, roughly sketched in pencil, depicts the British route of retreat from Concord on April 19, 1775. Mrs. Cumming
noted that this map is folded down the middle, as if it had been in an officer’s pocket. The Cummings
made three photographs each of manuscript maps they discovered in England and European archives. “I have one of the largest
collections of reproductions of maps of the Southeast,” Cumming said. “We’re hoping,” Mrs. Cumming said, “other cartographical scholars will come
to Davidson to use the Cumming collection.” She said one reason she and Cumming chose to give their collection to
Davidson is, “to give undergraduate students an acquaintance with a center for scholarly research.” The collection also includes original maps,
some very rare. “In early years he’d pick up a good bargain in a map,” Mrs. Cumming said of her
husband. “People didn’t realize how valuable they were, until his book [The Southeast in Early Maps] appeared. Then, he priced
himself out of the market!”

A map’s significance, Cumming said, depends on its “rarity, age, condition, historical value.” Of Cumming’s books, Mrs. Cumming said, “The
central theme is a new way to look at history because they contain contemporary maps and manuscripts.”and also diaries and
journals... [They] thrust the reader into the experience itself—how it looked and felt to participants.” One of Cumming’s books combining
journals and maps in this way is *The Discoveries of John Lederer*, edited by Cumming. Lederer, a German explorer, was
the first European to travel through the Piedmont and Blue Ridge mountains (1669-1670) and to leave a record of his
journey. Lederer’s diary, written in Latin, includes maps and accounts of a terrifying night spent in a North Carolina Indian
village; the diary was originally published in London in 1672. Cumming obtained material for his work in Hamburg, Germany, which
also incorporates the North Carolina map the Cummings purchased on their honeymoon.

In the 17th century, the maritime powers, Spain, France, and England were the doers; the greatest interest in collecting, recording,
and studying the results of these explorations was in Germany, Austria, and Italy. Here, scientists and cartographers zealously gathered information,
often surreptitiously, from the nations on the Atlantic coast.

Cumming received his Ph.D. from Princeton; there, he studied late Middle English. His first book, *The Revelations of Saint Birgitta*
(1929), originated from two years of study at Princeton (1924-1926) of a fifteenth-century Swedish mystic. In 1927, Dr. Cumming joined
Davidson's English faculty; during his teaching years, he also published research on Edmund Spenser and Middle English. He is a
past President of the Historical Society of North Carolina, the South Atlantic Modern Language Association, and a Fulbright lecturer. He
also served as a representative on the Executive Council of the Modern Language Association.

Born in Japan to missionary parents, Cumming keeps the wooden staff he used to climb Mount Fuji at age 12
(stamped by monks at different stations along the route) in the hall umbrella stand at his home. He came to
America in 1914 to attend McCallie School in Chattanooga, TN, accompanied by Dr. J. Park McCallie and others. On their
way, McCallie and Cumming traveled through Russia at the beginning of World War I: “That's another story,” Cumming said.

Inside the Cummings’ front door hangs a large map, carefully crayoned. The elaborate legend includes color-coded symbols for mountains and
“icy” and “arid” prairies; the oceans around the continent contain detailed ships labeled as the Nina, Pinta, and Santa Maria,
and exotic fish swallowing boats. The Cummings’ seven-year-old grandson drew the map after studying his grandfather's *The Discovery of North
America*.

### Movie shocks with the ‘beauty’ of horror
By JENNY LIVINGSTON

“Something there is that doesn’t love a wall.” I can’t remember who wrote that. It’s the first line of a
poem I read in the seventh grade. I didn’t understand it then, but I think I do now.

I first saw the movie *The Wall* when it first came out in 1982. I was 16. I couldn’t even
watch half of it. I walked out, sickened and shaken, past rows and rows of stoned teenagers with glazed eyes.
I hated that movie. Today, in 1986, I watched the whole thing without flinching. I didn’t understand it then, but
I think I do now.

*The Wall* is Roger Waters’ dissertation on Roger Waters. It’s a trip (truly) through his life and through his psyche
using the central symbol of (obviously) the wall. The wall that isolates us. The wall that protects us. The wall
that denies us our humanity. The symbolism is neither particularly original nor extraordinarily subtle—it slams you in the face every
minute of the movie. Subtlety is obviously not Waters’ high point. The movie and the music are crammed full of
such symbolism that literally screams its own meaning.

Maybe it’s not fair to peg this as total self-exploration on the part of Waters. He asks in one of
his songs: “Does anybody else in here feel the way I do?” I think that he intends for us to
identify with him; that his is a somewhat universal experience. Still, at times *The Wall* comes dangerously close to a
kind of celluloid masturbation. At these times, all I could see was him and nothing of myself, a huge problem
for a movie. For as soon as the viewer is divorced from the movie, all you've got is video wallpaper—eye
candy, so to speak.

If you have to settle for video wallpaper, though, you could do worse than *The Wall*. Its visuals are not
pretty by any stretch of the imagination. It’s filled with blood and death, the things that upset me so much
the first time I saw it. But even death is not without a certain aesthetic. Waters has a real eye
for the “beauty” of horror. At 16, I turned my head. Today I was enthralled. Once I was unable to
look, now I am unable to look away. I'm not sure which reaction was better.

The first time, I was struck with the full force of the images. They were shocking, disturbing, even frightening. But
they were so shocking, disturbing, and frightening that I couldn't watch the movie; I couldn't get at what Waters was
saying because I was so repulsed by his manner of saying it. Now I think I know what he was
saying. But I know it with my head. I didn't have nearly the emotional response as I did the first
time. I wasn't shocked. I wasn't disturbed. I wasn't frightened. Once it was horrible. Today it was interesting—not profoundly interesting—but
just interesting. The walls go up. How sad.
