“Sweeney Todd” previewed, p.5

Volume LXXVI, Number 8
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, October 31, 1986

Wicker speaks on party relationships
By TOM MOORE

“American politics is about winning power,” said New York Times columnist Tom Wicker, Reynolds’ Lecturer for the 1986-87 academic year. “The candidate’s greatest strength is the promise to his party that ‘I can win, and if I can win, you come into power with me, and as long as I stay in power, you stay in power with me.’”

Wicker lectured on “The News in Perspective” to an estimated crowd of five hundred Wednesday night in Love Auditorium. Wicker predicted that although in his view, the Democratic Party can only win the presidency by “default” of the Republicans, a default is what’s coming in 1988. He also speculated that the makeup of the next Senate would be 51-49 or 52-48 Democrats to Republicans.

In addition to his syndicated New York Times column, Wicker is an associate editor of the paper and appears on David Brinkley’s weekly television news forum. He was a Harvard University Neiman Fellow and has written several novels and nonfiction works. His column appears in the Charlotte Observer.

One of the main thrusts of his talk was his view of the changing relationships between the American political parties. “We are in a situation where the Republican Party is the ‘Party of Government’ in our country. It’s the party of government because the party represents a sufficient unity of interests so that in election years it can pull together and win a Presidential contest.

“The Democratic party has become the ‘Party of Access.’ Groups that have previously had no impact on the political process in this country have been able to move into the Democratic Party and have an impact within that party. With that wide band of interests, it becomes difficult for that party to pull together in an election year so that they can win the Presidential contest.”

Citing the example of Jimmy Carter’s win in 1976 over Gerald Ford, Wicker said, “In my vision of the way the party relationship works today, I think that for the foreseeable future any Democrat is likely to win the Presidency only because of a default by the ‘Party of Government.’ The Republican Party defaulted in effect in 1976 because of the Watergate scandal.”

"It is entirely possible that we will have a Republican default in 1988,” he said, “not to suggest another Watergate scandal, but to suggest that the Republican Party long ago outsmarted itself in its posthumous revenge against Franklin Roosevelt, putting in the two-term limitation, which prevented Dwight Eisenhower from running again, and will now prevent Ronald Reagan from winning again.”

Watson fellowship candidates announced
By NELLE MCCORKLE

The Graduate Fellowship Committee chose four Davidson seniors to represent the college in the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship competition. Selected from 17 Davidson applicants, these students are Laeta Kalogridis, Mike Ladd, Debbie Podolin, and Mark Swift.

Awarded since 1968, the Fellowship provides $11,000 for one year of independent study abroad upon graduation.

Kalogridis plans to study theatre as a feminist art form and, in a broader sense, as a means of communication between gay and straight populations. “I plan to study the lesbian theatre movement in London and West Berlin, possibly Dusseldorf as well,” she said. Asked how she selected her planned topic, Kalogridis said,Thomas J. Watson Foundation, based in Providence, R.I., supports 75 Watson Fellows annually chosen from 50 American private colleges and universities. Each Davidson applicant prepared a five-page proposal and participated in two interviews. Kalogridis said of her proposed project, “I want to study lesbian news.”

Inside:
Dr. Jerry Hough speaks on the Soviet Union

“I’ve been interested in feminism for a long time. The perception of the straight population concerning the gay population in Western society is hostile, and I think that needs to change. One means to change that is the theatre. I’m trying to close the gap between gays and straights to get people to look at each other as individuals.”

Ladd became interested in his proposed project while participating in Davidson’s junior year abroad in Marburg last year. “I got a chance to go to East Germany and there was a little kid in the family. She was nine years old. She was terrified that Westerners, especially an American, were coming to visit, because she thought we wanted to kill her (and other Communists). She did not even picture us as human beings and was quite surprised and relieved to see that we were just like everyone else,” he said.

Using an East-and West German community, Ladd proposes to establish a four-to-six week exchange program for children aged nine to eleven. “I want to give East and West German children the chance to meet one another before they develop any misconstrued social and political biases,” he said.

Interest in the role of women’s athletics at Davidson and participation on the varsity women’s tennis team led Podolin to her planned topic. “It (her proposed project) is studying the role of exercise in three different cultures. Those cultures are Japanese, East German, and Kenyan, and I’m mostly trying to find out the role it plays in the community and on the individual level,” she said.

Swift, who is a pianist, said, “I am planning to study the cultural effects of music in Bali and in south India. My thesis is that music plays the role of a social and religious cause in those regions.” He said, “I’m optimistic about the interview because the person interviewing us is a composer, and I hope if nothing else we can have a good discussion.”

For these four Davidson representatives, the next step consists of expanding the written proposal to ten pages. A representative from the Watson Foundation will interview each student Dec. 11 at Davidson; fellowship recipients will be notified by March 17.

Dean of Students Will Terry, who helped select Davidson representatives, said, “We think they’re all winners. It was a very difficult time because we had such strong proposals this year.”

Other members of the Graduate Fellowship Committee are English professors Tony Abbott and Gill Holland, German and Humanities professor Hansford Epes, philosophy professor Lance Stell, and political science professors Tom Kazee, Louis Ortmayer, and Mary Thornberry. Seniors Steve Baskin and Kathleen Micham were student representatives on the committee.