Friday, October 10, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Just Words
Tim Brown

Grizzlies, bighorn sheep, elk, bison, and other animals living in our national parks have their existence threatened by two groups:
Park-tourism directors who are inconsiderate of the animals and their needs, and park rangers who wrongly and adamantly believe that
the best way to preserve park ecology is to leave it completely alone.

Tourism in our national parks is growing faster than a weed. So far in 1986, tourism has grown by 10
percent. In their attempts to accommodate rising tourism, park-tourism directors are inconveniencing the animals. The delicate regions where the animals
feed are paved over with asphalt to make way for caravans of tourists. Recently, in Rocky Mountain National Park, delicate
feeding areas were paved over to make asphalt pathways so tourists could hike through the woods without getting their shoes
dirty and without getting their babies’ strollers stuck in branches and twigs and rocks.

Park-tourism directors have been influential in getting industries, villages, farms, and hotels set up along the outskirts of our national
parks in order to provide food and shelter for tourists. Because of the industries, the purple-wrapped Great Smoky Mountains are
now brown with smog. Because of the farms, the bats and birds in Acadia National Park in Maine die from
DDT poisoning. Because of the villages and hotels, visitors who struggle up Cadillac Mountain in Acadia are disappointed to look
down on condominiums’ black rooftops and concrete parking lots shimmering with heat.

Of all the animals in our national parks, the grizzlies probably suffer most from the wrongdoing of the park-tourism directors.
The grizzlies living in Yellowstone suffer on two accounts. For many years it was common knowledge among Yellowstone’s human residents
that the grizzlies peacefully ate many of their meals at nearby garbage sites. Yellowstone’s tourism directors put their dunce caps
on, gathered in a corner, and decided to clear the garbage sites because they were viewed unfavorably by tourists. Now
many grizzlies starve. Then, to make matters worse, Yellowstone’s dull-witted tourism directors converted the grizzlies’ natural feeding grounds into campsites.
So, the grizzlies occasionally stroll through the rows of campers, much as a consumer shopper strolls through the rows in
grocery stores, looking for appetizing junk food. Smart shoppers among the grizzlies should go grocery shopping for more nourishing food
at Yellowstone’s tourism offices.

While Adam Smith and ardent Republicans promote a laissez-faire economic policy, park rangers promote a laissez-faire policy of their own:
The best way to preserve park ecology...is to leave it completely alone. This policy has proven disastrous in several instances,
and now it is being called into question by concerned biologists. Adhering to their laissez-faire policy, park rangers do not
burn accumulations of brush and undergrowth, and thus fail to regulate and maintain the animals’ food supply. The park rangers
do not use hunting or reintroduce wolves into our national parks in order to control animal populations. Four years ago,
Yellowstone’s park rangers refused to control the elk population. They swore that the elk population would peak at 12,000 to
15,000 head. Last winter, the elk population was estimated, conservatively, to be 16,000 head. The elk, whose population continues to
grow unregulated by park rangers, are eating other animals out of house and home. The elk eat every edible plant
down to the dirt and the foliage on most trees. Most trees are “high-lined,” stripped to the height a bull
elk can reach. In the winter of 1981-82, Yellowstone’s bighorn sheep came down with a bacterial infection known as pinkeye,
which can be cured with eye drops. The park rangers knew of the bighorn sheep’s condition, but refused to intervene.
Most of the sheep became blind and sixty percent of the sheep starved or stumbled to their deaths from snow-covered
cliffs. The animals could sleep easier tonight if park-tourism directors and park rangers were to appreciate and respect nature the
way Henry David Thoreau did at Walden Pond. He strove to work and live with nature, disturbing it as little
as he could. He was thankful for the conscientious hunter and the conscientious fisherman and the conscientious Indians. They would
hunt and fish, taking from the forest no more than was necessary to feed and clothe their families, and they
helped maintain a healthy animal population. Not even Walden Pond is safe from tourism directors who are inconsiderate of animals
and park rangers who believe they should leave park ecology alone. The tranquility of Walden Pond is threatened by roaring
radios, automobile horns, lifeguards’ whistles, screaming children, and splashing swimmers. The fish living in the shallows approach extinction as they
continue to compete with inflatable rafts and bobbing swimmers for breathing room. The trees that surround Walden Pond, which Thoreau
explained were the pond’s eyelashes, are sprayed with graffiti and display carvings done by green lovers. The shores of Walden
Pond, which Thoreau watched grow during the summer months and shrink during the winter months, are littered with wooden caution
signs and tourist booths, emptied soda pop bottles, candy wrappers, and forgotten sun visors. However, park rangers should not intervene
and pick up the trash, since the trash will decompose naturally in only a few thousand years. Park-tourism directors and
park rangers who rule as unconscientious oligarchs over the animals better be glad that the animals are not able to
read Thoreau’s essay “On Civil Disobedience.” Brown is Opinions editor of The Davidsonian Date, October 16, 17 Sun. 5-10 pts.
Payment plans available. ©1984 Jostens, Inc. See the full selection of Jostens rings in your college bookstore and see your
Jostens representative at: Time: 10 a.m.-3 p.m. Place: BOOKSTORE on Thursday and Friday JOSTENS COLLEGE RINGS.
