Friday, April 18, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN 5

Former economics majors lend advice on careers

By NELLE MCCORKLE

Economics majors graduating in 1981 indicated the ways they found jobs, described their past and present positions, and advised current Davidson students in response to a Davidsonian questionnaire. Davidson’s 1981 graduating class included 59 economics majors; 18.6 percent responded to the questionnaire.

Three of the eleven alumni responding hold MBAs (an additional three are now in business school); two others have earned law degrees. One graduate went directly to business school from Davidson; both lawyers went straight to law school. Two respondents found their first jobs through the Davidson Careers Office. Both worked for commercial banks in the Carolinas. One of three alumni, who has since earned an MBA, called commercial banking “a great place to start. Consulting would probably be equally as good. An analyst on Wall Street is ideal but grueling.”

Asked what jobs or industries present economics majors should consider, another alumnus wrote, “More Davidson students should be going to top management consulting firms or Wall Street investment banks. When I was at Davidson I did not know these industries existed, but most top students at Ivy League or other top schools who go into business start in these two industries.” A second-year student at Harvard Business School, this respondent called commercial lending “excellent preparation” for those expecting immediate entrance into business school. He considered line management or sales positions valuable for two to three years.

Specific course advice included recommendation of philosophy from a corporate lawyer, English from a computer programmer, and mathematics from a Ph.D. candidate in finance. This last respondent wrote, “You would be well advised to take all of the mathematics that you can. It looks good and if you have any ability at all, you will be at quite an advantage.”

“A big problem here at UNC with people coming out of both the MBA program and (to a lesser extent) the undergraduate Business Administration program is that they cannot write and cannot think critically!!”

“Because of the fine liberal arts tradition at Davidson, I am sure that this problem is not as severe. Employers are typically at least ten years behind the times in realizing educational trends, but are now finally realizing that both MBA and undergraduate BA degrees are no guarantee of a good employee. In fact, they can contribute to narrow-mindedness and a lack of creativity. What is needed is an education that prepares the student to think critically and originally and provides the tools to utilize ideas. Thus it is important to take literature classes (and maybe art history, religion, Humanities) and as much mathematics as you can stomach.”

In the economics department, courses graduates considered helpful in getting and holding jobs include macroeconomics, microeconomics, and introductory and intermediate accounting. One alumnus wrote, “Take both accounting courses. Extra outside school if you're really ambitious.” Now employed in Charlotte investment banking, this alumnus called accounting the “single most important subject” for finding a job in his field. He wrote, “Economics is the best preparation for general business at Davidson, especially financial management. A lot of companies discriminate against liberal arts people — which is not to say liberal arts is not great preparation for business. Think about an MBA.”

A graduate working for Brooks Harvey, the real estate branch of Morgan Stanley, and an alumnus who will be employed by the venture capital firm Venture America upon his graduation from Harvard Business School emphasizes the importance of computer ability: “Learn to do spreadsheet analysis on a computer (Lotus 1-2-3) immediately!”

“Other courses and summer, part-time and intern experiences graduates advised present Davidson students to consider are, ‘Anything that is enjoyable and indicative of a well-rounded person,’” according to an Atlanta lawyer. He wrote, “The personal relationships and contacts that you develop at Davidson will generally prove to be much more valuable than anything you will get from class.”

“For summers and part-time,” another graduate wrote, “do anything that interests you, but the more initiative required to get the job and the closer it parallels what you want to do later, the better off you will be later.” The graduate of the Darden School now working for Brooks Harvey wrote, “Summers are best spent outside or in some entrepreneurial job. (I cut trees.)”

A second-year student at the Wharton School who will be employed by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets...As a corporate finance associate upon graduation called it “critical to get some relevant work experience (even if you have to volunteer or work for virtually nothing!) with a large company prior to starting your job hunt.” He wrote, “Start interviewing over Christmas of your senior year. Work on that resume! Use Davidson alumni contacts in New York City.” Summer interning at North Carolina banks for exposure was suggested by a First Atlanta commercial loan officer. He wrote, “Don’t be afraid or appear timid to take the initiative in setting up contacts... also the sooner the better (i.e. freshmen and sophomores).” Employed by Wachovia Bank & Trust after earning an MBA from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, this alumnus advised “contacting Charlotte or Winston-Salem banks and inquiring about interview schedules... perhaps setting up your own interview with out-of-state banks particularly in Virginia and Atlanta.” He also wrote, “Use Ken Wood's Office to the fullest; he has and knows a number of people who can be used as contacts.”

In addition to course and work experience advice, graduates offered other suggestions to current economics majors related to preparation for careers while still at Davidson. A lawyer wrote, “Do well enough at Davidson to get in law school and bust your fanny once you get there.” According to the second-year Wharton student, Davidson students seeking careers in investment or commercial banking need “strong grades (yes, grades do matter), strong leadership abilities (elected positions), and hustle and persistence.” Among industries to consider, alumni mentioned airline/travel/transportation, construction/development, corporate law, sales, and “industries that are growing or in a state of major change (telecommunications, transportation, banking).” A Norfolk Navy supply officer responsible for management of thirty people and a several-million-dollar budget wrote, “Don't rule out government as an initial ‘industry’ to work in, particularly the military. No matter what anybody tells you, there are never enough good lawyers. The compensation is good, and the work is exciting.”

Only two of the eleven respondents work currently at the first job they held after graduation: the Navy supply officer and Delta Air Lines computer programmer have continued with their original employers. Others report having held several jobs, as in the case of the Charlotte investment banker with Bowles Hollowell Conner & Company, who worked as a North Carolina National Bank Credit analyst before earning a University of Virginia MBA. Respondents reported plans for jobs or positions they hope to hold in twenty years, including retirement ownership of a small manufacturing concern, venture capitalism, independent constructional development financing, policy-making for a federal agency, Navy government contracting/program management, and economics/finance/mathematics college professorship.

One graduate found her Delta Air Lines job through “a neighbor who told me they were hiring.” Asked about ways to find a transportation industry job, she responded, “Unfortunately, it’s really being in the right place at the right time. It helps to know somebody and you have to be persistent.” For students interested in areas other than banking or consulting, the Harvard Business School student advised, “Learn all you can about the industry. Write to firms that interest you and send a resume, follow up with a call and an offer to come interview at the company’s convenience.” A Dallas developer wrote, “Be prepared to cope with a rapidly changing economy. Be innovative. Look for the up-side of any situation.”

Several respondents emphasized the value of economics specifically in today’s job market, but many spoke of the value of liberal arts in general. The Brooks Harvey financier wrote, “Enjoy the liberal arts while you can. It's an enormous hidden asset which improves with age.” The graduate writing computer programs for Delta Air Lines wrote, “It's tough to get started on a career with a liberal arts education, but it is true what they say that you'll be better off later on. I think Davidson teaches you to be self-reliant and really think things through. In any career you choose you can use some knowledge from Davidson. Preparing for a big presentation, researching information, producing new ideas are all things we've done at Davidson that you do in the business world.”

A defense against cancer can be cooked up in your kitchen. Fruits, vegetables, and whole-grain cereals such as oatmeal, bran, and wheat may help lower the risk of colorectal cancer. Foods high in fats, salt- or nitrite-cured foods like ham, and types of sausages smoked by traditional methods should be eaten in moderation. Be moderate in consumption of alcohol also. A good rule of thumb is cut down on fat and don’t be fat. Weight reduction may lower cancer risk. Our 12-year study of nearly a million Americans uncovered high cancer risks particularly among people 40% or more overweight. Now, more than ever, we know you can cook up your own defense against cancer. No one faces cancer alone.