Friday, May 2, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN 13

Morain’s opinion misguided

Frank Albinder

Thomas Aquinas said: “Because of the diverse conditions of humans, it happens that some acts are virtuous to some people,
as appropriate and suitable to them, while the same acts are immoral for others, as inappropriate to them.”

In his April 25th opinion article in The Davidsonian, Grant Morain uses half-truths, selective scriptural interpretation, and faulty logic to
support false and misguided arguments pertaining to the rights of homosexuals and the very nature of homosexuality itself.

Mr. Morain cited the familiar verses from Leviticus that have been variously interpreted to prohibit certain homosexual acts. This citation
is not compelling. There are also verses in Leviticus that prohibit the ingestion of pork and shellfish. Others mandate offering
burnt sacrifices to the Lord, or require that one live in a hut for seven days during the harvest. Unless
Mr. Morain intends to follow all of the laws set forth in Leviticus, perhaps he should consult the Christian Scriptures
and their condemnation of hypocrisy.

John Boswell, of Yale University, in his award-winning book, Christianity, Social Tolerance, and Homosexuality, explains the Leviticus verse this way:
“The Hebrew word ‘teovah,’ here translated ‘abomination,’ does not usually signify something intrinsically evil, like rape or theft, but something
which is ritually unclean for Jews, like eating pork or engaging in intercourse during menstruation, both of which are prohibited
in these same chapters... In the Greek (translation), the Levitical enactments against homosexual behavior characterize it unequivocally as ceremonially unclean
rather than inherently evil.”

Boswell goes on to say that “the assumption that the creation of humankind through heterosexual union in Genesis and the
subsequent emphasis on marriage through the Old Testament demonstrates tacit rejection of gay sexuality is insupportable in a modern context,
and it does not seem to have occurred to early Christians... In fact, intense love relations between persons of the
same gender figure prominently in the Old Testament — e.g. Saul and David, David and Jonathan, Ruth and Naomi —
and were celebrated throughout the Middle Ages in both ecclesiastical and popular literature as examples of extraordinary devotion, sometimes with
distinctly erotic overtones.”

Perhaps Mr. Morain should become more studied in scriptural exegesis before he uses Biblical authority inauthentically.

Mr. Morain also lumps homosexuals together with vandals and rapists, a ludicrous association, and he refers to laws that prohibit
sexual acts between members of the same sex. It should be noted that these laws prohibit a variety of sexual
acts between men and women as well. Boswell states that “it would certainly be a mistake to draw conclusions about
the position of gay people in most American cities from the legal strictures theoretically affecting them, and previous studies of
this subject have doubtless erred in laying too much stress on the existence of restrictive statutes. Simply noting that something
is illegal may be grossly misleading if one does not also comment on the extent to which such laws are
honored, supported, or generally approved.” The laws to which Mr. Morain refers are both unenforceable and irrelevant. They are perhaps
as useless as laws proscribing public expectoration or requiring the use of car seat belts. All of these laws attempt
to dictate behavior through statute, when little more than individual responsibility is required.

Mr. Morain refers to “crimes against nature,” yet who is to decide what is natural or not? Boswell notes that
“historical ethical systems based on ‘nature’ opposed shaving, growing flowers indoors, dyeing garments, regular bathing, birth control, and scores of
other activities performed daily by the same people who use the term ‘unnatural’ to justify their antipathy toward gay people.
The objection that homosexuality is ‘unnatural’ appears, in short, to be neither scientifically nor morally cogent and probably represents nothing
more than a derogatory epithet of unusual emotional impact due to a confluence of historically sanctioned prejudices and ill-informed ideas
about ‘nature’.”

After an exhaustive study of a variety of sources, Boswell concludes that “Roman society did not for the most part
distinguish gay people from others and regarded homosexual interest and practice as an ordinary part of the range of human
eroticism... The early Christian church does not appear to have opposed homosexual behavior per se. The most influential Christian literature
was moot on the issue; no prominent writers seem to have considered homosexual attraction ‘unnatural,’ and those who objected to
physical expression of homosexual feelings generally did so on the basis of considerations unrelated to the teachings of Jesus or
his early followers.”

Throughout history, gay and bisexual men and women have contributed in countless ways to the society in which we live.
From Socrates to Tchaikovsky, from Plato to Proust to Gertrude Stein, homosexuals and bisexuals have been responsible for some of
the most notable achievements in science, literature, and the fine arts. To ignore the fact that homosexuals exist in society,
or to limit their rights is both criminal and unnatural. I fail to see how the establishment of a support
group to serve the needs of the Davidson gay community will infringe on the rights of the general populace. Members
of the faculty, staff, and administration who support and aid in the formation of such a group should be applauded
for their efforts to show that this community is not selective and discriminatory in its attempts to be thoughtful, open,
and caring.

“We can easily reduce our detractors to absurdity and show them their hostility is groundless. But what does this prove?
That their hatred is real. When every slander has been rebutted, every misconception cleared up, every false opinion about us
overcome, intolerance itself will remain finally irrefutable.” Though Moritz Goldstein was commenting specifically on German persecution of the Jews, his
words serve as appropriate commentary on the arguments raised by Mr. Morain, and on those that are certain to be
raised in the future.

Albinder is an instructor of music.

Economics majors violate Davidson’s Christian ties

Joe Johnson

It has come to my attention this past week that Davidson College has a “Department of Economics” and that affiliated
with that department is a group of students designated “Economics Majors.” The noble reader may well imagine my shocked indignation
and sense of moral outrage at the very thought of classrooms filled with bespectacledHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving
the original meaning and punctuation:

---

demons, armed with pocket calculators and rolled-up Wall Street Journals, totaling up eleven percent interest rates — compounded semi-annually —
to be extracted from decent, God-fearing debtors. And as if it were not enough that this group of troubled students
is preparing to plague the world with such sinful debauchery, I am led to believe that they are assisted in
their studies by seven members of the Davidson faculty, who regularly organize and coordinate their efforts so as to ease
as much as possible their students’ transition into the post-graduate world! Mouth agape with disbelief, thankful that most of my
four years at Davidson have been spent naively and blissfully ignorant that our college sponsors the fostering of heathen atrocities,
I have checked to reassure myself of a sublime truth that I read but a few days ago. I find
it still nestled warmly at the top of page nine of The Davidsonian of April 25, and I read once
more the following soothing excerpt from the Davidson College “Statement of Purpose”: “Since Davidson’s founding the ties which bind the
College to the Presbyterian Church have remained close and strong. It is the desire of all concerned that this vital
relationship be continued in the future, to the mutual advantage of church and school.” The scholar who borrowed these words
added also that Davidson is “a college committed to the historic faith.” Though I breathe a sigh of relief that
I did not misunderstand the quote in my original reading, I am nonetheless sorely confused: if these ties remain close
and strong, wherefore the encouragement of usury? In that vein, Deuteronomy 23:19 reads, “Thou shalt not lend upon usury to
thy brother: usury of money, usury of victuals, usury of anything that is lent upon usury.” Aquinas explains that “by
this we are given to understand that to take usury from any man is evil simply because we ought to
treat every man as our neighbor and our brother, especially in the state of the gospel whereto all are called.”
In addition, the “Sermon on the Mount” includes the command, “Lend, looking for nothing again.” What are these pearls of
morality if not a strong condemnation of usury by the “historic Christian faith?” Yet I am as a Davidson student
ashamed to point out the most grotesque irony of this whole sordid affair, the fact that the Office of the
Chaplain is openly willing to try to help meet the spiritual needs of these future Shylocks. No doubt the aspiring
gold-diggers and dreamy-eyed bleeding hearts of this campus will join forces to declare, “Davidson faculty are not helping usurers rape
their fellow man; they are merely helping students learn economic principles.” True, the Bible does not prohibit learning economic principles
like it prohibits raping one’s fellow man (as far as I know), but one follows from the other. I think
it is important to point out that there are some at Davidson who are not True Christians and may therefore
lack reason to believe that usury is a sin. There is, after all, more than one religion... Perhaps the Opinions
page will deal with their ilk next week. For now, however, suffice it to say that these economics faculty and
these economics majors are first and foremost employees of and students at Davidson College and that the “primary loyalty of
the College extends... to the Christian Community as a whole, through which medium it would seek to serve the world.”
Surely the promotion of the sin of usury is not their idea of service through the Christian medium! It turns
out that I live with an economics major in my perimeter house, and recent conversations with him have made me
more aware of the probability that economics majors are people, just like you and me, who are fraught with worries.
I have no doubt that the economics majors at Davidson need or want support in the form of an economics
department; however, I question the appropriateness of the college’s involvement in such an organization. Its existence has certainly failed to
reduce the number of usurers in the world. Furthermore, the appeal of usury is spreading like a malignant tumor: even
now many non-majors take economics courses at Davidson. Where will it all end? Should we look for our administrators to
next form a Department of Adultery or a Department of the Taking of the Name of the Lord Thy God
in Vain? Those most deserving of scorn and opprobrium are surely the faculty that turn out sinners on this college-sponsored
assembly line. What do they perceive as being their roles as members of the Department of Economics? If they condone
usury, and it appears they do, I humbly submit that they should re-evaluate their positions at Davidson. There are people
here at Davidson with real need for support, people who feel utterly alone in the college community, and these people
are more deserving of our Christian support and limited resources than this band of white-collar conspirators. A final note: some
would claim that we are not in fact in Aquinas's “state of the gospel whereto all are called,” that we
are in the state of North Carolina whereto some are temporarily drawn, and that usury is a fact of life
here in the Tar Heel State. I say, “Get thee behind me, Heathen!” North Carolina laws prohibit “crimes against nature”
and categorize them as class H felonies, and none but the fool would deny that nothing is more natural than
to prefer not to pay interest on a debt. I have heard economics majors say that “Davidson is the worst
place on Earth to take eco comps.” To the majors who feel that way, I suggest you find a school
without ties to the church in a state without laws prohibiting such activity. In the meantime look for your jobs
elsewhere, far from the soul-eating crime of usury. As the Geneva Bible directs you, lend, “not only not hoping for
profit, but to lose ye stock, and principal, for as much as Christ bindeth himself to repay the whole with
a most liberal interest.” Let's join together as a Christian community to produce Davidson graduates who will lose their stock,
and principal, in the name of God, even if we have to be rough as Hell on them to do
it. Johnson is a senior philosophy major from Smithfield, NC
