4 Wednesday, March 26, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Rusk scholars find Davidson wealthy, difficult

By KEITH FINCH

Some new faces have appeared on campus this term. That's nothing new. But there's also a new accent wafting through the air in these hallowed halls — a British accent. It’s brought to us by the Dean Rusk Scholars, seven English students who have come to Davidson to study throughout spring term.

According to International Student Adviser Paula Miller, the Rusk Scholars program was begun in 1977 in honor of Davidson graduate Dean Rusk '31, U.S. Secretary of State from 1961 to 1969. Rusk was a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford and wanted British students to have a similar opportunity to study in the United States. The program provides scholarships covering rooms and tuition at Davidson; the students will pay their other expenses.

The scholars — Susannah Briski, Hero Boothroyd Brooks, Camilla Ferard, Catherine Hogg, Nicholas Botwood, Philip Hoult, and Victor Nikolaidis — were each selected on the basis of an essay and an interview. They are currently living in dormitories on the Davidson campus. Each is living with an American roommate and has been assigned a host family.

One aspect of Davidson life which particularly impresses the Rusk Scholars is the apparent affluence of the college and its students. “The relative scale of student wealth is incredible,” said Hoult.

Other scholars agreed. “I'll tell you one of the first things that strikes you — Davidson is incredibly wealthy,” said Hogg. “All the facilities are so new; there are phones in every room, fridges in rooms — it’s incredible. God knows how many indoor tennis courts there are in England, but there surely aren't many. And you've got one here.”

Differences between English and American academic systems are also readily apparent. For instance, students at Davidson have up to two years to select their major field of study, while the English system is considerably different. Hogg said, “We're used to going into the system in English universities and taking no more than one course. At the age of sixteen we take ‘O’ levels in many different subjects. Those who study for the ‘A’ levels specialize in only three subjects, and by the time you get into the university you're studying one subject. I guess there are pros and cons to both broad and specific educations.”

Ferard also mentioned peculiarities of Davidson academics: “Classes are quite hard work. I was surprised how hard. There tends to be more contribution to and preparation for class here, I think. There’s a lot of emphasis in England on just lecture.”

Hoult mentioned that most of the Rusk scholars are taking advantage of a “free year” that British students usually take between graduation from secondary school and entry into college. “We have a whole year before entering the university in which we can do anything we like. Most of us will be here in the United States for six months, taking two or three months for traveling. Air flights are really cheap here right now — you’re having something of a price war, aren’t you?”

In the meantime, the Rusk Scholars may very well find themselves assimilated into American culture. “I’ve never eaten so many hamburgers and pizzas in my life!” said Hogg.

The Davidson Dance Troupe performed last Thursday in Hodson Hall.

Lambert, Rudy receive Watson Fellowships

By LAURA BATTEN

Two Davidson seniors, Anne Lambert and Sayres Rudy, were awarded the Watson Fellowships for this year. These two will engage in a year of independent study and travel, an experience afforded yearly to only a select few college graduates nationwide. Lambert and Rudy have been selected along with 70 other college seniors to pursue their particular fields of interest in the countries of their choice. Lambert will be traveling to Japan and Rudy to the Middle East.

The Watson Fellowship originated in 1968 with the intention of giving interested students the opportunity to explore and understand a subject for which they have particular concern. The Foundation provides a grant of $10,000 to each student for his or her project. Students are selected with regard to personal interest in and commitment to their field of study, as well as the originality and feasibility of their proposal. Because the program is highly unstructured, Fellows are encouraged to approach their projects with a large degree of independence and flexibility. During the course of study, theFellows are required to keep in close contact with the Foundation, submitting periodic reports and a final evaluation of their year. Lambert will fly on Sept. 7 to Tokyo, where she plans to study different aspects of the Japanese theater. Lambert said that she has a lifelong love of the theater and eventually plans to go to graduate school, where she will pursue her specific interest in theater production and management. Lambert was first compelled to try for the Watson last summer when she worked at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, D.C. While there, she saw a great many plays, including two productions performed in the Japanese Kabuki style, a form of drama extremely popular in Japan. Kabuki is a highly visual drama, filled with complex tales of love, passion, and tragedy. It is performed solely by male actors, who play the roles of both men and women. Lambert was fascinated by this form of theater and became particularly curious about the significance of the onnagata, the male actors who play the parts of women. Lambert is interested and at the same time bothered by the exclusion of women from the Kabuki and is especially concerned that the Japanese women’s movement has done very little to protest their exclusion. “My proposal reflects the two driving forces in my life at present, theater and feminism,” Lambert said. Lambert plans to study in depth the Kabuki theater and its portrayal of women and will also seek out a comparable women’s theater, perhaps traveling to Osaka, in order to contrast the two distinct styles of drama and to gain better insight into the cultural role of women in Japanese society. Lambert said she is somewhat apprehensive about the language barrier she will encounter, although she said she is eager to learn Japanese. In addition, she welcomes the change from organized, structured Davidson life to a more flexible, “go with the flow” lifestyle she will experience next year. Lambert said, “I can’t believe it. I’m going!”

Rudy is concerned with the question of finding a homeland for displaced Palestinians. Rudy is particularly interested in better understanding the Arab-Israeli conflict. This is partly due to growing up in Scarsdale, N.Y., said Rudy, where there is a substantial Jewish population and thus the Arab-Israeli conflict has always been a prominent issue. In addition, Rudy spent last summer doing an internship in the Davidson in Washington Summer Program on U.S.-Soviet relations, which fueled his interest in the subject. Rudy will be studying the various Palestinian groups which have been displaced and are now scattered throughout the Middle East. The groups, while all consider themselves to be Palestinians, are quite diverse in many important respects, including levels of education, economic status, and political opinions, Rudy said. These differences are significant, Rudy feels, when studying the Palestinian issue, which involves finding these varied groups a homeland where they are to be unified once again. Rudy has chosen three major areas to concentrate his study: the West Bank, Amman (in Jordan), and Kuwait. These regions are representative of the diversity evident among the Palestinian people. Rudy’s goal is “to understand the situation, to witness it, to get a feel for it, and to understand and live amongst the Palestinian people.” Rudy is unsure of housing plans at the moment but is considering trying to live with Palestinian families. He intends to study Arabic before leaving, in order to gain a basic understanding of the language. Sayres’ friends and family have expressed concern about his traveling to the Middle East, which has been the scene of a high degree of terrorism. Rudy responded to these concerns by saying, “I think at this point, I feel as safe going to the West Bank, Amman, and Kuwait as I would feel going to Paris, Rome, Vienna, or New York City.” Rudy is apprehensive about the anti-American sentiment which prevails in much of the Middle East but sees it “simply as a matter of planning carefully.”

If you’re within 30 days of your 18th birthday, you must register with Selective Service at the post office. It only takes five minutes to fill out the card. And don’t worry, there hasn’t been a draft since 1973. The country just needs your name in case there’s ever a national emergency. Selective Service Registration. It’s quick. It’s easy. And it’s the law. A public service of this publication.