Friday, April 18, 1986  
THE DAVIDSONIAN  

Beyond Davidson  
US bombs Libya; Pope visits synagogue  
JANE AURELL  

Headlining the news for the week of April 9-16

International news — In an overt effort to “preempt and discourage” Libyan terrorism, U.S. military planes conducted an air strike against Libya on Monday night, bombing targets around Tripoli and Benghazi described by U.S. officials as “command and control centers and training facilities” used by terrorists; one U.S. plane is reported missing. In retaliation, Libya fired on a U.S. Coast Guard station in the Mediterranean but no damage was reported. The Reagan administration states that U.S. action was taken in the face of “direct, precise and irrefutable evidence linking Libya to past and future planned terrorist activities directed against the U.S.” European reaction has been mixed, but the U.S. Congress has issued general support for President Reagan's decision.

In Khartoum, Sudan, a U.S. embassy employee was shot and seriously wounded at an anti-American protest sparked by the U.S. air strike on Libya; responsibility for the assault has not been pinpointed. To protest the U.S. attack on Libya, the U.S.S.R. has canceled a summit planning meeting between Soviet foreign Minister Edward Shevardnadze and Secretary of State George Shultz slated for next month.

In the Philippines, President Corazon Aquino said that she will call for a referendum to decide whether the U.S. should be allowed to keep its two largest foreign military bases located in the Philippines after the 1991 contract expiration date. Throughout the week, thousands have gathered in Manila to denounce the Aquino government and call for the return of former President Ferdinand Marcos. Meanwhile, the chief prosecutor at last year’s trial for the assassination of Benigno Aquino said that the entire court proceedings were “staged” by Marcos to ensure the acquittal of former military chief Fabian Ver.

In China, a U.S. Navy delegation resumed talks in Peking regarding the sale of sophisticated technology to the Chinese Navy. Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone met with President Reagan earlier this week to discuss trade differences; Nakasone pledged to cut Japan's trade surplus with the U.S. but urged Reagan to do a better job in promoting U.S. exports to Japan.

In response to a nuclear weapons test conducted by the U.S. last week in Nevada, the U.S.S.R. ended its eight-month moratorium on its testing of nuclear weapons. U.S. government experts reported Tuesday that the U.S.S.R. conducted a failed test of its largest new land-based missile. Meanwhile, 52 members of a bipartisan Senate committee urged President Reagan to maintain the guidelines of the unratified SALT II treaty, claiming that not doing so would endanger the U.S. and NATO members by allowing the Soviets to add warheads to their arsenals.

Svetlana Alliluyeva, daughter of Josef Stalin, said that she and her daughter, Olga Peters, have received permission from the Soviet government to leave the country; Peters arrived in Britain on Tuesday, but Alliluyeva did not accompany her.

Kurt Waldheim, former UN Secretary-General and current candidate for the Austrian presidency, has been accused of “complicity” in Nazi war crimes; the allegations are under investigation.

In Ireland, after holding her for eight days, kidnappers released Jennifer Guinness, the wife of a wealthy banker related to the Guinness-Stout brewery family. Michel Brian, the French teacher kidnapped last week in Beirut, was rescued earlier this week.

In an historic gesture to end discord, Pope John Paul II became the first Pope to visit a Jewish synagogue; the Pope condemned persecution and displays of anti-semitism “at any time and by anyone.”

U.S. officials and contra leaders said Sunday that despite a ban on military aid, the CIA has secretly given the Nicaraguan contras more than $1.5 million for political operations since August.

In Haiti, eight months after the ouster of the Duvalier regime, U.S. diplomats and foreign experts suggest that the government of Gen. Henri Namphy is “just not governing” and that vital decisions are not being made.

In Pakistan, thousands staged the largest protest in nine years calling for the ouster of President Zia.

In Israel this week, to end the eight-day crisis facing its coalition government, Finance Minister Yitzhak Modai and Justice Minister Moshe Nissim “swapped” jobs; this action...is reported to be a major victory for Prime Minister Shimon Peres and the Labor Party. On Monday, Nobel Prize laureate and anti-apartheid advocate Bishop Desmond Tutu was elected Anglican archbishop of southern Africa; Tutu will head the two million Anglicans in South Africa, Lesotho, Swaziland, South West Africa, and most of Mozambique.

National news — Last week the House voted 292-130 for a bill easing restrictions on gun owners and dealers; however, they voted to retain the ban on interstate handgun sales. The Senate approved a similar bill last year and is expected to pass this one. A Brown University senior and a Rhode Island insurance agent were indicted and charged with operating a prostitution ring that involved several Brown University students. Florida became the first state to allow pharmacists to prescribe drugs for minor ailments. A California biotechnology firm announced that it has developed the first “virus-specific” diagnostic test for detection of the AIDS virus; if approved by the FDA, it could be on the market within a year. The FDA announced Friday that daily estrogen tablets taken by women after menopause are an effective way of slowing and preventing the bone deterioration disease called osteoporosis. The Southland Corp., owner of 7-11 stores throughout the country, announced that the stores will no longer sell pornographic magazines; the decision was made in light of evidence linking pornographic material to sexually related crimes.

Thought for the Week — “Practice yourself what you preach.” Titus Maccius Plautus (254-184 B.C.)

Housing Office considers new housing privileges
By AARON LEVINE

The Davidson College Housing Office is considering whether rising sophomores should be guaranteed housing. The idea has gained some student support, yet many others, especially upperclassmen, are opposed to the idea for it would hurt their lottery rights in regards to seniority. If rising sophomores are guaranteed housing under the proposed system, they would exchange places with the rising juniors in the lottery sequence and would pick right after the rising seniors. In other words, while under the present system, rising sophomores would be forced off campus, with a roommate if they have a poor lottery number, the proposed system would put rising juniors in the situation. However, the possibility of being forced off campus for rising juniors should not be a problem. As Housing Director Tom Jennings states, “Juniors and seniors are more mature and would benefit from an off-campus experience... the lifestyle is the benefit.” In defending the proposal to guarantee housing to rising sophomores Jennings goes on to say, “In terms of students' growth, the effect of housing is greatest in the freshmen and sophomore years.” According to Jennings, many underclassmen are not mature enough to handle living off campus. The gap between their freshman year when they would be given an inordinate amount of attention and a sophomore year where they might be pushed off campus could be too great for complete readjustment. Off-campus housing could be easier for rising juniors and seniors because they would generally have more community contact and know more professors. If this proposal is approved, it would go into effect beginning next year, giving rising juniors who were forced off campus this year the choice to come back on campus.

Terry speaks on brotherhood in Vietnam War
Continued from page 1

Terry said that he was led to write about the black experience in Vietnam partly because of a young soldier who had joined the armed forces to earn money to send to his mother. The soldier was only sixteen, but he had lied to the recruiting officers because his mother needed the money so badly. He died after only six weeks in Vietnam. His death urged Terry to write “for the young people.” Terry donated a volume of Bloods to E.H. Little Library in honor of Halyburton’s courage and brotherhood. Born in New York City, Terry was educated at Brown, Chicago, and Harvard universities, and followed the same program leading to seminary as President John Kuykendall did. In the 1960s Terry wrote for the Washington Post and Time magazine, covering the civil rights movement. From 1967 to 1969 he was stationed in Time's Saigon bureau.