The Davidsonian
Friday, November 7, 1986

An exploration of Japanese haiku
“All night on a flute.”
By SUDEEP SEN

The Japanese psyche is today a popular subject for parlor discussion and serious study. But we cannot understand the minds of these people from temperate Asia without some knowledge of their cultural roots. What emerges from such an inquiry is that the Japanese have two sides to their character: on the one hand, they are industrious people, sincere and serious in their belief and in their work; on the other hand, they are a nation nurtured in artistic and cultural traditions. They are sensitive to beauty. Their literature, their paintings, their gardens bear testimony to this. Not many, however, have had the opportunity to drink from the nectar bowl of their literature. It might appear unfamiliar and, therefore, baffling when one first reads haiku, the popular form of poetry from Japan. To the Westerner, it is an exotic form of verse. But for me as an Indian, these 17-syllabic creations are familiar enough. We have our Urdu couplets, and even the four-line poems of Tagore. But the haiku’s similarity with our poetry starts and ends with size. It is the content and not really the size of the haiku that determines its unique character. Invariably, it has as its nucleus one of the four seasons — spring, summer, autumn, or winter. The season’s name may not always be mentioned; often a key word or reference makes it identifiable. Built around this seed is the flesh comprising descriptions of life, nature, and human beings, the ingredients of most poetry. What gives it an unusual flavor is that the haiku leaves much unsaid:

“When the autumn wind
Scatters peonies,
A few petals fall in pairs.”
— Buson

The haiku started as the first three lines of the tanka, a poem of five lines composed by two people as a sort of literary game. One person composed the first three lines; the poem was then completed by the other. Eventually, the first portion of the tanka gained popularity as a separate verse form. Even in the original Japanese, the haiku has no end-rhymes. Of the 17 syllables, the first and the third lines have five syllables each. Within these narrow confines, sometimes the haiku brings together two apparently different ideas, such as here:

“For a lovely bowl
Let us arrange these flowers...
Since there is no rice.”
— Basho

For a better understanding of the haiku, we must appreciate the influence of Zen Buddhism and its philosophy on the poets. Reading haikus gives the distinct impression that they are exquisite crystallizations of very sharp and accurate observations of the world around the poet. It should be realized that only those trained to switch on the mind as a receiver would be capable of reading such insights into everyday schemes. The greatest acknowledged haiku poet — Basho, a contemporary of the seventeenth century — was a student of Zen Buddhism in his later years. His Zen-training yielded gems as:

“My eyes following
Until the bird was lost at sea
Found a small island.”

The charm of the haiku lies in the fact that in spite of the narrow constraints of its form and content, it is able to convey a whole range of emotions and images, leaving enough unsaid to lead the reader to complete the canvas with his or her experiences. Some of the best haikus, of course, describe nature in its purest form. Here is one example:

“One fallen flower returning to the branch?
... Oh no! A white butterfly.”
— Moritake

An observer of the world cannot but be struck occasionally by the sheer illogic and unpredictability of human nature:

“Don’t touch my plum-tree!
Said my friend, and saying so
Broke the branch for me.”
— Taigi

Continued on page 6

Southpark and Eastland offer dining variety
By JESSICA FISHER and DIANA MILLER

Shopping and snacking are symbiotic activities. Parent’s Weekend has hopefully replenished your checking accounts, and this week is a good time to use the money for that badly needed wardrobe makeover. Southpark mall, Eastland mall, and the Uptown area mall all provide excellent dining to complement your purchasing excursions.

While in Southpark, take time out to lunch at the Belk’s gourmet section on the lower level of the store. This section includes a full deli, bakery, and restaurant. The restaurant, open for lunch from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., features gourmet edibles at moderate prices. Two items which appealed to us were the roast beef and brie croissant sandwich and the fresh poached salmon. The prices range from three to seven dollars. On the way out, stop at the bakery and pick up some fresh baked bread or French pastries to keep in your room for those late-night post-party munchies. If your dining tastes are of a moreContinental style, Charlie’s restaurant, also in Southpark, provides an alternate lunching location for the discriminating epicure. The atmosphere is quaint and the menu is broad. The horticultural decor and coordinating green and white checked tablecloths create a comfortable ambiance. The varied lunch menu is composed of such dishes as chili nacho salad, eggs Florentine, fettuccine primavera, and bacon cheeseburger, and the prices are consistently about five dollars. Charlie’s opens at 11:30 for lunch and remains open throughout the afternoon. If you choose to shop at Eastland Mall, Casa Gallardo and Anabelle’s await you as culinary options. Casa’s, located on Albemarle across the street from the mall, features a Tex-Mex fiesta. 

Nohow and contrariwise, it’s never too early to think about X-mas.

By STEVE MANK

Sure, it may seem a little early to start writing about Christmas, but you can never prepare too early for one of the most sacred days in the Christian religion. I have received countless letters recently from folks just like you who seek my advice concerning the holidays, so in this, my first holiday column, I will answer some of them.

Dear Mr. Christmas,

Around our house, the birth of the Lord has special significance. We like to read from Scripture and sing hymns. On Christmas Eve, everyone sits around the fireplace and talks about the meaning of this very special day for them. My question is this: for these loving times, should I wear my red dress or my white one? Also, does God prefer silver or gold?

Saved but Savvy

Dear Saved,

Nothing goes better with sacred moments of familial bonding than a simple, white Laura Ashley and matching pumps. May I also suggest a gold, diamond solitaire necklace?

Casa Gallardo offers a great luncheon buffet for a mere $4.50. The buffet includes create-your-own tacos, taquitos, tostadas, and other tasty Mexican dishes. The mud pie, fried ice cream, and sopapillas are delectable possibilities for the consummation of the meal. In contrast, Anabelle’s, located within Eastland Mall, appeals to the more conventional diner. Anabelle’s opens for lunch at 11:30 and remains open until midnight. The menu consists primarily of sandwiches, Italian dishes such as lasagna, and salads, and the prices stay at about $5.

If the Uptown Area Mall lures you into its clutches, stop in Sweetbay or Chatfield’s. Both restaurants are located in the Marriott Civic Center. Sweetbay has tables outside of the restaurant itself, yet within the Marriott, creating the atmosphere of a European cafe. A typical buffet-style lunch offers such dishes as lasagna, eggplant parmesan, steamed vegetables, garlic bread, soup, and salad, and includes a delicious dessert buffet for $7. One possibility is to choose to forgo the full buffet and enjoy only the delectable dessert bar for $3. The blueberry pie, Bavarian tortes, French pastries, apple and peach cobblers with fresh whipped cream all are perfect complements to your afternoon tea or coffee. Both the buffet and the dessert bar are offered from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Monday through Saturday. While some may prefer the all-you-can-eat lunch and dessert buffet offered at Sweetbay, Chatfield’s provides a lighter fare. Chatfield’s serves primarily a deli sandwich, soup, and salad lunch which costs about $5. On pleasant afternoons, the outdoor veranda is open. So bypass that Chick-fil-A, and opt for some of the finer culinary experiences offered by the Charlotte area.

Dear Mr. Christmas,

What’s this business about Santa seeing me when I’m sleeping? Frankly, I find the idea rather revolting.

Disgusted in Duluth

Dear In,

Not only does he see you when you’re sleeping, but he severely punishes snotty brats like you for their impertinence.

Dear Mr. Christmas,

I’m afraid my husband did not have too successful a year. We’d like to give our eight-year-old, Tad, a toy gun but we just don’t think we can afford it. Can you help us?

Mrs. Judith Divine

Dear Mrs. Divine,

I believe that when Tad looks under the tree, a big gift-wrapped box from Santa will be waiting for him there. Inside he’ll find a REAL Lugar and some clips taken off a genuine Kraut during the Big One.

Dear Mr. Christmas,

We so loved Burl Ives in “Santa Claus is Coming to Town.” Will he be doing any more specials?

The Holts

Dear the Holts,

Mr. Ives has sadly fallen to a career low. He has forgotten the family values he once thought were so valuable and is now making shows with names like “Nero the Love Elf.” Pity...

Dear Mr. Christmas,

A few years ago you printed a poem from a dead boy in heaven to his mother. In it, the boy talked about keeping the Christmas spirit all year long. I believe it was called “Mama, Merry Christmas.” Can you reprint it?

A Caring Woman

Dear Woman,

No.

In our next special Christmas column, we will discuss shopping season weaponry and techniques for remembering your church after a whole year. Until then, keep buyin’.

Mr. Christmas