Friday, May 2, 1986  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Movie reviews do not satisfy  
Christi Baggett

I thought I had gotten accustomed to Jenny Livingston’s trendy drivel — those articles that pass for “film reviews.” But her Midnight Cowboy article made me angry enough to send in a few of my own observations.

My first complaint — I may as well start from the beginning — concerns a few earlier articles. For a while there, Livingston’s articles tended to begin with this sort of observation: “Well, they call it an art film, but it’s OK anyway.” For one thing, believe it or not, some of us aren’t automatically deterred by the label “art film.” For another thing, it seems to me that someone with such an attitude towards “art films” shouldn't be reviewing them. Granted, this campus on the whole isn’t overly appreciative of “artsy” things, and Jenny may be trying to reach a broader audience than the campus culture-vulture set. But in fact, her remarks sound like part of the anti-arts tradition, not like calculated concessions.

The articles are hardly over-esoteric — they display no excessive or impressive knowledge of movies or movie-making. Rarely if ever do they discuss historical significance, the directors’ other works, casting, the actual making of the movie, filming techniques, etc.; they rarely if ever even offer a respectably thorough plot summary. I don’t expect a professional job here, and I don't expect or want over-blown, lofty, thesaurus-dependent reviews — but I would like to know that someone “reviewing” Davidson's movies knows more about movies than I do (that’s asking quite little), and these reviews fall far short of that expectation.

Anyway, I’m not one of those suckers who believe anything the critics say; I don’t even know what the critics said about Midnight Cowboy but I know I liked it.

Here’s a second complaint, and also an illustration of Complaint No. 1: When she reviewed Blood Simple, Livingston took it upon herself to define for us a director's role in movie-making. She answered that complex question with a simple, bald statement to this effect: The director is supposed to keep him/herself out of the picture; he/she should just stay behind the scenes and let the script do its own work. She didn't bother to note that her statement was an opinion, nothing more or less. Even if she had, I would have thought that statement ill-considered.

An analogy with music and drama may illuminate the narrowness of Livingston’s proclamation. The conductors of symphony orchestras aren’t there just to keep the beat; they’re there to interpret musical scores. That’s why good audiences can distinguish between a George Solti/Chicago Symphony Orchestra performance of a Mozart symphony and a Zubin Mehta/New York Philharmonic performance of the same work. That’s why directors like Solti, Von Karajan, Ormandy, Bernstein, can have their own fans. Directors of drama, too, assume more responsibility than Jenny would grant them, and more opportunity for “personal style.” Anyway, there’s no big Arts Rule-book that says art can’t be self-conscious if it takes the notion; a reviewer him/herself may not like it — fine — but if he/she means to be a responsible reviewer he/she must, I believe, begin to recognize where “right” and “wrong” cease, and where his/her opinions begin.

For one thing, believe it or not, some of us aren’t automatically deterred by the label ‘art film.’ For another thing, it seems to me someone with such an attitude towards ‘art films’ shouldn’t be reviewing them.

But on to that Midnight Cowboy article, which I would rather call a diatribe than a review. You remember, Jenny wrote to tell us how much she hated that movie. Well, if a reviewer hates a film he/she is no less obliged to give good reasons for that hate — perhaps one must defend such dislike even more thoroughly than approbation. Jenny did no such thing. The article centered around a snide plot “summary” which was apparently supposed to convince us of the movie's stupidity, but (at least in my case) didn’t because so much of the plot was left out. She also made two general statements which I consider far too superficial to count as criticism. The first, in effect: This movie is bad because it’s depressing. The second: This movie is bad because the characters wear such nasty clothes. As for the first statement, it’s a far cry from “critical evaluation.” Apocalypse Now, for example, is no cheerful film, but that hardly makes it bad. Ditto for the novel Moby Dick, the play Hamlet. Jenny did extend this first statement, claiming that the movie “had nothing to say.” However, it seems to me that Midnight Cowboy had a lot more to say than Jenny perceived. It contained more humor than she could see and said more about loneliness and friendship than she could hear. It sounds like Jenny Livingston didn’t notice the sort of friendship that developed between Joe and Rico because she herself couldn’t imagine being friends with anyone who had to wear polyester and “major sideburns.” It seems even that the article lambasted not the film, really, but the less privileged. The article, in my opinion, had sort of a nasty gum-smacking air — it sneered at the subject matter, exclaimed “Ugh!” Livingston made no mention, possibly because the Rico bum so disgusted her, that the Rico Rizzo role must have been one of the most difficult Dustin Hoffman has ever played. She showed no sensibility to such thoughts — the story itself occupied her so completely that she never commented on performances, cinematography, etc. The story itself occupied her so completely (if not so deeply) that she didn’t even notice that one might interpret Midnight Cowboy’s ending, oh horrors, happily.

Anyway, I’m not one of “those suckers who believe anything the critics say”; I don’t even know what critics said about Midnight Cowboy but I know I liked it. I went to see the movie in part to spite Livingston’s “review,” because the article’s tone incensed me so. I’m glad I saw it, glad I rejected Jenny Livingston’s unsolicited advice.And that our opinions on Midnight Cowboy differ isn’t the primary cause of my irritation here—I too liked Blood Simple, and liked The Gods Must Be Crazy, yet disliked Livingston’s approach to reviewing them. The latest article, not unlike the Midnight Cowboy article, was essentially a shallow plot-summary with an absurdly broad generalization tacked on at the beginning. Well, if a reviewer hates a film he/she is no less obliged to give good reasons for that hate—perhaps one must defend such dislike even more thoroughly than approbation? I hope my anger has made some small sense. In case it hasn't, here’s a quick summary: surely we at a “highly selective liberal arts college” can come up with reasonably substantial film reviews, not just Cute Movie Masterplots. In the future, I hope The Davidsonian’s film reviews will exhibit a bit less slang chatter and a bit more insight.

Baggett is a senior English major from Thomasville, GA.

Laundry service lacks Mrs. Creach’s care
Anthony Gristina

After a long period of editorial silence, I thought that my opinionated pen had run out of ink or rather it had been used in a less creative and more affected manner in academic trivialities. However, I was accosted by an issue today of such significance that my hot-blooded pen could no longer restrain itself. I know that the reader is expecting some unique and profound insight into life or maybe a psychological examination of some particular social organization, but my current concern is much more fundamental, delving deep into the foundation of this bureaucratic institution that you and I call Davidson College. I know that it might be hard to believe, but there is a serious problem in the structure of this academic utopia and conservative refuge. Did you know that the laundry system is included in the tuition, or more appropriately, did you know that you have to pay for the laundry and it cannot be separated from your tuition? The situation is similar to the dining service where the 14-meal plan is the smallest one available, but that matter is for later attack.

Last week, for the first time, I gave the laundry service the privilege to perform their proud role for the first time this school year. To be sure, I did not include my fine washables in that amorphous bundle of a laundry bag, but only the most rudimentary articles of clothing. I will never trust my prized blue jeans, somewhere between the point of well-worn and dilapidation, and my Saint Laurent cotton sweater to any other hands but those of Mrs. Creach, the elderly maid of my grandma. I often fantasize about buying Mrs. Creach a house when I get out of Davidson and make my first million.

Getting back to the narrative, when I returned to the laundry shed, as I like to call it, to pick up my surprise package, I was not surprised. As I tore open the paper, I was confronted with my new Davidson gym shorts, or more precisely what was left of them. Instead of their usual white gleam contrasted with a red Davidson emblem on one leg, I beheld what resembled a yellow rag with a faintly visible brown spot on the leg. Of course, I am exaggerating for effect, but needless to say, these shorts were unsuitable for display on any campus. I was not angry. I thought to myself that surely these people have made a mistake and put my former shorts in with the wrong load. I presented my discovery at the counter with a forgiving air as any proper Davidson student would have done and was instructed to see Mrs. Beaver in the back.

After explaining to her that I am not a dipper of shorts, she still did not believe that compensation was in order. Mrs. Beaver proceeded to read me the label on the waist of the shorts as if I had forgotten to when I gave them the shorts to wash. She told me that I must have dipped them in something to make them turn yellow. After explaining to her that I am not a dipper of shorts and that I had not received the desired or the expected effect when I brought my shorts to be so expertly laundered, she still did not believe that compensation was in order. She argued that it must be the poor quality of shorts that The Student Store markets. But no, that was not it because I have a friend who owns the same shorts and gets them washed at this same place, but the result was quite different. By this point, I was quite annoyed and I am sure that even Mrs. Beaver sensed this.

My dear Mrs. Beaver, for I am a Davidson student and while I might not know the day of the week, unless of course it is a Wednesday and I only have one class, or the year that I will graduate, I do understand the complex implications of washing clothes. Mrs. Beaver, I do know that white shorts do not turn yellow unless they have been put in with the wrong load, and finally, at the risk of rendering your argument impotent, I know that this is not the first time your valuable service has made a mistake. This matter is far more serious than it seems because it illustrates the inherent flaw in the socialist theory. Who would have thought that such a situation exists right here in Davidson? It is apparent that since the laundry service is insured financial support from the college, it has lost a valuable ingredient, namely incentive. My point is clear, if Davidson is going to insist that I pay for the laundry service, I would hope that the service is acceptable. I hope that my expose has made an impression on those concerned, if not, beware of the editorial pen for it may be loaded with indelible ink.

Gristina is a sophomore English major from Winston-Salem, NC.