By MIKE ADAMS

East Tennessee State gained almost 400 rushing yards en route to crushing the Davidson football team 41-16 at East Tennessee last Saturday.

East Tennessee followed the fleet feet of running back Herman Jacobs in running up a first-half lead of 21-9. Jacobs carried the ball 10 times in the first half for 142 yards. (He finished with 171 yards on just 15 carries.)

The Wildcat defense had trouble early with the ETSU ground game, giving up scores on the Buccaneers' first two possessions to fall behind 14-0. Jacobs scored both touchdowns.

The Cats got on the board early in the second quarter. ETSU had the ball on their own 21-yard line when junior linebacker Howard Humphries burst through the line to sack the quarterback and force a fumble which he recovered.

Davidson took possession on the Buccaneers’ eight-yard line. Freshman quarterback Peter Hughes, who had replaced senior starter Steve Bradley, took just two plays to get the Cats in the end zone. He scrambled once for no gain and then hit junior running back Aaron Edwards with a pass at the five which Edwards took in for the score.

It took ETSU just 47 seconds and two plays to answer with a touchdown of its own after the Davidson kick-off. Starting from their own 31, the Buccaneers gave the ball to Jacobs twice. The second carry was for 66 yards and a touchdown.

Davidson closed the first half scoring with senior Jack McCollum’s 38-yard field goal.

The Cats drove from their own 26 to the ETSU 21. The biggest play of the drive came on a faked punt at the Cats' own 28-yard line. Senior Gary Stewart took the short snap and rambled 30 yards for the first down in Tennessee territory. Davidson was forced to settle for the field goal after Bradley's third-down pass was batted down in the end zone. McCollum’s kick was good just as time expired.

ETSU opened the second half scoring, going 55 yards in just six plays to notch a touchdown on their first possession of the third quarter and run the score to 28-9.

Davidson’s defense stiffened for the remainder of the quarter, but the Wildcat offense was not able to cut into the Buccaneer lead.

The play that broke Davidson’s back came with less than 30 seconds gone in the fourth quarter. Stewart recovered a Buccaneer fumble at the ETSU 20-yard line.

Bradley moved the Cats to the ETSU seven-yard line. He then threw a pass into the end zone, intended for sophomore running back Bryan Overcash, but it was picked off by a Buccaneer defender and returned the full 100 yards for a touchdown. After the point-after attempt failed, ETSU led 34-9 and the door was essentially shut on the Wildcats.

The Buccaneers added one more touchdown on their next possession to close out their scoring at 41.

Davidson managed one more score of its own late in the fourth quarter when Edwards returned a punt 59 yards to the ETSU 22-yard line. After the Cats gained 15 yards on two Hughes scrambles and then lost 15 yards on an unsportsmanlike conduct penalty, Hughes connected with freshman receiver Shan Teel for a 22-yard scoring strike to close the scoring at 41-16.

Davidson has an open date this weekend. They are probably going to need it to prepare for their next contest: Oct. 4 at Appalachian State. The Mountaineers are one of the top-ranked teams in the nation in Division I-AA.

Volleyball celebrates first-ever varsity victory

By SUSAN WILKINS

The women’s volleyball team celebrated its first win of the season against Belmont Abbey in an away match Monday night. They came back from a first-game loss to win the second and third games, winning 15-0 and 15-8 respectively.

According to coach Sue Hayes, “the Ladycats' goal has been to improve each game; scoring more points and playing more as a team.”

So far this goal has not been out of reach. In every match the Wildcats have played they have had fun as well as improving their scores.

Monday night’s second match against Mars Hill is a prime example of the Cats’ improvement.

In the first game of the best of three series, the volleyball team played as if they were scared of the ball and, consequently, lost 0-15. In the second game the team rallied to come from behind and gave the Mars Hill players a scare. Although the Cats ended up losing the game 12-15, they showed enthusiasm and functioned as a well-playing team.

Although the Wildcats are a young and inexperienced team, some players are performing especially well. Among these are freshman Sarah Johnson and sophomore Maria Douglas, two of the team's most solid setters. Consistent and strong serving is provided by both freshman Kathy MacDonald and senior Bonnie Bolton. On the front line, junior Beth Elder is playing well.

Thursday night the Ladycats played Appalachian State University. Appalachian is ranked number one in the Southern Conference.

Hayes expected a tough match and got it. Davidson scored two points in three games against the powerful Mountaineers.

Although they played well in spurts, the Wildcats lacked cohesiveness throughout most of the match. Davidson looked tentative and disorganized; the scores of the games — 15-2, 15-0, 15-0 — reflected this hesitancy.

Towards the end of the third game, the Cats came alive, holding off two match points. Douglas and senior Michelle Miller played well in delaying the loss.

Davidson’s next home match is Monday, Sept. 29 at 6:30 p.m. against Wingate.