6
‘Short Takes-

By LEE EICHELBERGER

Lifes Rich Pageant
I.R.S.
IRS-5783

On their fourth album, R.E.M. have shown themselves as a consistent, yet conservative band. While “Lifes Rich Pageant” continues to solidify the band’s already strong track record, this enjoyable album covers no new ground. “Pageant” continues in the same vein as “Fables of the Reconstruction” with a few alterations. The more accessible production of Don Gehman confirms the suspicion that Michael Stipe’s lyrics make sense only in Stipe’s odd world. After listening to songs like “The Flowers of Guatemala” and “Hyena,” it seems that R.E.M. are creating, playing, and singing songs only for the song’s sake rather than attempting to make the ‘statement’ their critics would like. Fans argue that this simple honesty should be aspired to. However, when a band has the ability to combine starkness and mystery into a formula that touches a universal nerve, their present efforts appear to be a waste of talent.

Ric Ocasek
This Side of Paradise
Geffen Records
GHS 24098

Something is going on in that thin skull of Ric Ocasek. I could swear that since “Shake It Up” that he had turned his back on the wide world of inspiration and creativity. However, “This Side Of Paradise” narrowly refutes that claim. While his second solo album is not a strong effort overall, it shines with the promise that the artist who created The Cars is still alive. The album begins encouragingly with “Keep on Laughin’” which displays Ocasek’s forgotten songwriting talent as he muses, “you got you when you want to find it/ you got you when you can’t define it/ you got to keep on laughing in the dark/ you got to keep on laughing ’till you find that spark.” For the next two tracks Ric falls into Cars thoroughfare, but things begin to heat up again on the enthralling “Look in Your Eyes” and the paranoic “Coming for You” which ends the side with a boiling guitar solo. The fun continues with “Mystery,” but intensifies in the album’s centerpiece “True Love” where Ocasek displays an intriguing vulnerability and tops it off with a beautiful twelve-string acoustic solo. But after that, the intensity dissolves into the familiar mediocrity which distinguished his last three solo and Cars efforts. In the end, “This Side of Paradise” disappoints only because Ric Ocasek teases us with the fine lustre of his better efforts and fills the spaces with simplistic banalities.

Game Theory
The Big Shot Chronicles
Enigma Records
ST-73210

I would not be surprised to find Game Theory’s “The Big Shot Chronicles” on this year's end top ten lists of many major music critics. This varied album of fine, hard pop carries the listener into the brilliant vision of singer/songwriter Scott Miller. His ‘miserable whine’ and captivating lyrics weave a spell through every song with mesmerizing effects. From the relentless drive of “Make Any Vows” (which rings with Beatlesque guitars) to the enchanting rhapsody of “Regenisraen” and “Erica’s World,” “Chronicles” reverberates with the echoes of Miller’s imagination. “When You’re Going Northern” chimes with the uncertainty and frustration of a lost relationship, while “Here It Is Tomorrow” drives the disenchantment of self-knowledge home. Although this album adheres to no strict ‘concept’ its overall effect reveals Miller’s artistic personality through its lush and immediate style. Overall the strength of Miller’s work, and the album’s stylistic accessibility, make “The Big Shot Chronicles” an album that anyone can appreciate and enjoy.

RICHARD CLOUDT

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, October 10, 1986

Three new albums to enjoy