10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor

Kevin Horan, Associate Editor

Kim Crabtree, Managing Editor

Will Thomason, Business Manager

Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors

Bill Bugg, Features Editor Andy Barron, Sports Editor

Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor

John Elster, Advertising Manager David Maynard, Circulation Manager

Ann Roddey, Production Editor

Brooke Knight, Executive Editor

SGA: Why bother?

It is not unusual in the course of The Davidsonian publishing year for the reader to see at least one
editorial on the doings of the Student Government Association. We gave up waiting for something to happen.

Oh, sure we know about the phonathon, the SGA admissions weekend and all that stuff; yes, they’re doing an okay
job, but a little initiative would not hurt. Take a look at the latest edition of “the SGA Minutes.” Did
we elect a group of stand-up comics? We hope not.

Although we appreciate a good sense of humor (note “Goings on about Davidson”), the weekly jokes at the bottom of
the minutes seem to be funny only to the members of the SGA senate. These jokes exclude the rest of
the college’s student body, who (according to the SGA bylaws) are members of the association.

The complaint about the jokes may seem inconsequential, but it is actually representative of the “slack” attitude which the SGA
has acquired.

The SGA has three responsibilities. The first is to maintain current programs, the second is to either take a stand
on or resolve topical issues and the third is to initiate new programs. The present administration is doing the first
job at least.

Some may say that the SGA has initiated a program: the summer job survey.

Wow.

It is interesting and required much work, but does it accomplish anything? It’s nice to find out what Betty Sue
did last summer, but will she be able to give you that same job next summer? Only if her mother
or father owns the company. Owners and managers should have been contacted; after all, it is they who offer the
jobs.

Some may say that there are no topical issues to be dealt with this academic year.

Baloney.

What do they suggest we do to prevent vandalism? How about doing something about the parking situation?

Does the present SGA have any long-term goals? If so, what are they? Many high officials in companies have been
fired because they lack goals: Impeachment is an ugly process.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of
the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $13 per year, or $24 per year for first class postal rates.
Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Andy Ball, Laura Batten, David Bearce, Jim Dillon, Keith Finch, Andrea Gross, Heidi Hooker, Jeff Lesesne,
Aaron Levine, Thomas Nicholson, David Williams

Features Staff: Laura Ballenger, Martha Johnson, Jenny Livingston, Matt Morris, Doug Robelen, Chris Sullivan

Sports Staff: Edwin Page, assistant sports editor; Mike Adams, Rand Hartsell

Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Beth Drummond, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, David Petranick, John Reuter, Sarah Smith

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Kim Nikles

Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Kristin Galloway, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen Keeley, Kara Kooken, Kris Kost, Beth Parker, Kim Robertson,
Margaret White, David Williams, Ben Yarborough

Compositors: Doug Kim, Lynda Korfmann, Ann Roddey, David Soud, Sara Strach, Laure Van Dierdonck

Friday, January 10, 1986

WHO IS QADDAFI?

DOESN’T KNOW OR CARE.

Letters

M & M

I am quite concerned about the changes made in one of Davidson’s most sacred institutions — the M&M Soda Shop.
Nachos have been added to the menu. Why? I don’t know... special sandwiches and nachos aren’t exactly a compatible culinary
creation. Heck, you wouldn’t go to Casa Gallardo’s and order egg salad and an enchilada, now, would you? Definitely not.
There are certain foods that go together, but nachos and egg salad??? Out of the question. (Big Yuck!)

There is a time and place for everything. And it may be the time for a restaurant change in the
thriving metropolis of Davidson, North Carolina; but the M & M Soda Shop is definitely not the place. Mary (previous
owner and the lady whom the Soda Shop is named for) arrives every day in her white uniform and fixes
the egg salad and chicken salad just the way she did when it opened in 1951. Things in the M
& M aren’t meant to be changed. What would you think if Mary arrived one day in leather pants and
a jean jacket? Yep, your mouth would probably drop three feet like mine did the day I saw nachos on
the menu.

Betsy Rothschild

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere to
these four guidelines:

1) We require that letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.

2) We require that letters be neatly typed.

3) We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editors.

4) We reserve the right not to print letters that a) function as advertisements; b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or
inside jokes; c) represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed on the same topic.
