10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor
Brooke Knight, Executive Editor
Kim Crabtree, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Bill Bugg, Features Editor
Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager
David Maynard, Circulation Manager
Ann Roddey, Production Editor

Slick and Suave

What is the purpose of our beloved WDAV, “your radio for the arts” 89.9 FM? The WDAV Board of Directors decided in the spring of 1977 that WDAV was:

1. To provide an educational and cultural service to the surrounding area by providing classical music and other programming that is not available on commercial stations.
2. To present Davidson College as an institution of high academic quality in a context of commitment to the highest values.

This is all good and well. However, we ask, “To what sacrifice the student?” Should WDAV cater to pin-striped, three-piece-suited businessmen and to homemakers in the pre-soap morning? The station’s present policies seem to do just that. Where is the “student” in this “college” radio station?

In a July 1978 letter to then-president Samuel Spencer, psychology professor Edward Palmer expressed his sentiments about WDAV:

"...over the past several years I have seen students translate a radio station concept into a radio station reality — doing so, in the initial stages, with 'chewing gum, bailing wire,' and their own brute strength. They had little to work with and the miracle is that they made it work."

He goes on to say that, realistically speaking, the radio station must have a consistent format, and the then-current student staff was providing no such thing. His letter was one of purely personal opinion with no official weight. However, he very effectively summed up past student contributions to the station.

WDAV is now projected by the college to be a classy, slick station with a haughty attitude that might be expressed as: “Our students are cultured and well-groomed, and they enjoy having the station run by professionals to make the college look good.” Can we infer that if the students ran the operation that the college would look bad to the outside world? Granted, chances are that it would not be as slick, but the radio station does have a stated commitment to students.

In the above-mentioned Board of Directors meeting, the third WDAV policy was:

3. To provide Davidson students the opportunity to enrich their educational experiences through professional-quality participation in a public communications medium.

The extent to which this happens is up to the college administration and ultimately up to the trustees. Some believe, though, that WDAV has become too big and powerful for students to run. If the college’s intention in keeping an iron-clad grip on the station was to use it as a public relations tool, then it is fooling itself. People are more impressed by a good and solid student-backed project than by a gilded and suave trustee-backed production.

Some believe that if the station becomes less professionally oriented, then its quality will diminish. This is not necessarily true; Towson State University’s (Maryland) radio station is almost totally student-run, and is the number one station in Baltimore very frequently. It broadcasts classical, jazz, and alternative music shows (these three types of shows share air time equally).

The Powers That Be at WDAV decided to tuck the shows which interest mostly students (flipsides and jazz sides) in between 11 p.m. and 1 a.m., when most students are studying, sleeping, or at parties. We are not saying that no students listen to classical music, just that many are interested in the other two types of music.music which WDAV offers. It is true that the station does have a modicum of student involvement, but many who have tried to offer their services and share their interest in this “student-run” radio have turned away disgruntled with the system. It would be difficult for WDAV to steer a totally new course, but allowing more student responsibility in an organization once largely controlled by them is not impossible. It is necessary if the station is going to continue its claim that it comes from the college, because the college is here for the students.

Friday, January 24, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

NESTLED AMONG THE ROLLING HILLS OVERLOOKING THE VANTAR WAN OF COVINGTON COUNTRY CLUB, THE LSDAY CLUB HOUSE PROVIDES CULTURAL DIVERSION FOR MUSIC LOVERS, ESPECIALLY IN CHARLOTTE. (STUDENT HOURS: 10:00 AM - 10:00 PM EVERYWHERE)

Letters

Computer Philosophy

To the Editor:

Ordinarily philosophy seminars are intended for philosophy majors, but spring term I'll be leading a seminar that is different. There are no formal prerequisites. It will meet Monday, Wednesday, and Friday at 3 p.m., and the subject will be artificial intelligence. I expect it to be challenging but profitable for students with varied backgrounds. I would urge students with some expertise in computer science, philosophy, or psychology in particular to consider this course.

Half the course will be spent studying the techniques actually used by computer scientists in designing intelligent machines, using a text by artificial intelligence researcher Elaine Rich. We’ll be discussing seminal articles by computer scientists, philosophers, and psychologists, and there will be guest lecturers from each of these fields. The philosopher John Haugeland will visit at the end of the seminar to discuss his new book on artificial intelligence. Ken Chen, a specialist in AI from UNCC, will come and explain his work in computer knowledge representation.

This course is not for everyone. No one will have the background to handle everything we are going to do in the course, so students must be willing to get in over their heads and pick things up as they go along. I am looking for students with different backgrounds to bring different insights to the seminar. Grading will be based upon this contribution and on a term project which could take many forms, as long as it attacks in some way the main problem of the seminar, the design of an intelligent machine. I encourage those who want to be on the cutting edge of scientific research to come and see me about this course.

Michael P. Smith
Assistant Professor of Philosophy, room 05a Chambers, ext. 291.

Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions articles on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community. We adhere to these guidelines:

1) We require that all articles be in our hands by 7 p.m. Monday.
2) We accept typed articles and those written legibly, double-spaced.
3) We require that opinions be signed. We will print unsigned articles only if compelling reason exists for withholding the author's name, and the author is known to either the editor or executive editor.
4) We will not edit opinions for style or content but we reserve the right to edit for rules of common English. We will inform the author of substantial changes.
5) Since space for Opinions articles is limited, we reserve the right to select articles from those we receive for publication. We will attempt to print any article we withhold from publication the next week.