One-acts entice through absurdity p. 5

The Davidsonian
Volume LXXV, Number 13
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, January 24, 1986

WDAV readies itself for change
By KEITH FINCH

WDAV 89.9 FM, Davidson College’s radio station, is approaching a time of important changes and new capabilities. Since its beginnings
in 1969, WDAV has undergone a gradual but radical transformation — from a carrier-current AM station to a 20,000-watt FM
transmitter, from student supervision to professional operation, from rock and alternative music to “your radio for the arts.” This month
the station will undergo still more changes as the staff prepares to move operations into a new building and increase
the station’s signal strength. These events have presented an opportune time to take a look at WDAV and its relationship
with the college, and to ask questions. What is its purpose? Where is it headed?

New facility, new audience

After an intensive fund-raising drive and months of preparation, the staff members of WDAV are looking forward to beginning their
move into the new McMillan building on Jan. 27. “It’s obviously a long time overdue,” WDAV station manager John Clark
said, “because it’s pretty clear that present facilities are inadequate.” Other staff members agree. WDAV community relations director Meg Kimmel,
whose office is located in Chambers (far from the rest of the station offices in the basement of the Union),
said of her distance from her colleagues: “There just isn’t room for me. I still feel very much a part
of the station, but I have had some problems. If we could all have just a little more give and
take, we could all feel some positive differences.

“WDAV’s like a little business in a lot of ways. It’s a very intense operation — everybody wears many hats.
If you add to that frustration, by having the staff work in a studio where you can hear water pipes
flushing and people walking on the floors above, then you'll sometimes find yourself beating your head against the wall when
something goes wrong — even though you've done the best job possible.” Junior Mickey McDonald, a WDAV student announcer, said,
“I think the new building will create a sense of quality and professionalism that you can’t get in a noisy
little booth in the basement of the Union.”

The main objective of the moving procedure, according to Clark, will be to minimize the station’s off-air time. Kimmel said:
“Being off the air is the worst thing that can happen to us. We feel WDAV is a service of
Davidson College and it’s a bad idea to remove a service.” Clark said the station has two studios, a broadcast
studio and a production studio, and plans to carry the equipment from its current production studio to the new building
to be wired and tested on Jan. 27. By the 30th, the production studio should be ready for use as
a temporary broadcast studio, and then the broadcast equipment will be moved out to the McMillan building. The only time
that will be spent off the air, Clark said, will be three to five hours spent moving the station’s microwave
transmitter from the top of the Grey Student Union, where it is currently installed, to a position behind the McMillan
building. Clark said: “Obviously, the equipment isn’t the only stuff we’ve got to move. The major factor (outside of time)
is more in moving equipment — desks, chairs, files, typewriters.”— and 15,000 records.” The move coincides with another capital improvement,
a signal strength increase which will up WDAV’s broadcasting power from 20,000 watts to 100,000 watts, Clark said. “We are
a week away from filing with the FCC for a directional signal directed to southern Mecklenburg County where all the
population is. These two projects — the building and the signal improvement — are going to put the station in
a position to be something really special.”

Kimmel remarked that the station’s increased power should bring WDAV to many people who are currently unable to receive its
signal, and thereby create something of a new audience. When asked about problems that might arise as a result of
the distance from the new McMillan to the center of campus (the building is located near the second hole of
the golf course), Clark said, “That was a bit of the negative in deciding on this location. We’re very conscious
of trying to be visible on campus. There’s the physical distance, of course, but more importantly there’s the matter of
the psychological distance.”

Student involvement?

Lex Alexander, a former WDAV student announcer/administrator who is currently a disk jockey with Z100 FM in Charlotte, said that
he sees the station’s decision to move so far from the center of campus as an unfortunate continuation of de-emphasis
upon student involvement in WDAV. Alexander recounted some details of the role that student involvement has played in WDAV’s history
since its beginnings. “The station was a carrier-current station, that is, something that you receive on your AM dial by
plugging into an AC outlet, from 1969 to 1973. In 1973 it became a real radio station, that is, a
ten-watt FM station. Between 1973 and 1978, then, there was this big dream to raise enough money to get the
equipment to become a high-powered stereo FM outlet. Most of the work done towards that goal between 1973 and 1978
was done by students,” Alexander said.

Alexander said: “In the fall of 1978, you'll remember, is when the trustees made the decision to take the station
over and make it a ‘professional’ station on a day-to-day basis. I don’t think I can overestimate for you just
how much that [angered the students]. You wouldn’t be overstating it to say that without the work that had been
done for free by the students between 1973 and 1978 there would never have been a high-powered WDAV. For that
reason a lot of students felt that the trustees were ripping them off when they took over the station.”

Alexander said WDAV used to have a higher degree of student involvement. “In the fall of 1978 WDAV was the
largest student extracurricular activity on campus except for IMAC and the football team — it involved upwards of fifty people.
So, when the trustees took it over, the effect was pretty widespread.” He added, “I don’t think the trustees would
have been able to develop a high-powered FM station. They were able, however, to have one handed to them by
the students who thought they were working long hours and raising money for a student station.”

Student involvement continued, however, said Alexander. (continued on page 4)

Inside
PBL a tas a
‘Sports: falls in triple overtime to Page 7
Anne Lambert asks “Are you a feminist?”
Student cites poor publicity as the heart of SGA’s problems. Page 6
