Friday, January 31, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wire Train’s album right on track

By LEE EICHELBERGER

In the last five years, pop music has sought to redefine itself, much in the way that it did in
the period that began with the emergence of Dylan in the early sixties and ended with the Beatles' Revolver and
the psychedelia craze. One of the most interesting groups signaling this change is San Francisco’s Wire Train. The band bubbles
with jangling R.E.M. and U2 style guitars, a hip driving backbeat, a sixties pop style, and a pleasant lyrical ambiguity.
But on their latest release, Between Two Words, Wire Train is torn not between two words, as the title implies,
but between the physical and the ethereal worlds. Yet while the band ends the disk in the limbo between these
worlds, the journey to that point leaves a fractured but highly engaging album.

Gateway to a great way of life.

DID YOU KNOW

That Advertising in The Davidsonian Is Both Inexpensive and Effective?

Fraternities Can Advertise Big Parties

You Can Advertise Your Friends’ Birthdays

The first track, “The Last Perfect Thing,” epitomizes the style of Wire Train. The sound is layered yet clean; a
ringing attack of guitar power chords, balanced with synths, and driven by a pounding rhythm section. Background vocals swell in
harmony after the U2 style guitar solo to end the album’s natural single. Lead writer and vocalist, Kevin Hunter, exudes
a dreamlike quality in his voice, especially in lines like, “The bells ring, the days change, and I await the
last perfect thing.” This is an expansive, ethereal style but it is grounded by the relentless pounding of drummer Brian
Macleod. This paradoxical dualism within the group’s style matches the two-world tension that I have suggested.

“Skills of Summer” expands the band’s sound, and despite its lyrical ambiguities, it is the most maniacally driving song on
the record. For “When She Was a Girl,” the rhythm is virtually scrapped except as a hint of tension. Here,
the otherworldly keyboards, guitars, and vocals reign and transport the listener where, “You remember her memories, but not her mind.”
The song reveals a strong psychedelic influence in the lines, “Outwardly, yes you knew her / When she was a
girl, but now she is no more,” and in a guitar solo played backwards as it fades out. But Wire
Train's style fails in the attempt to cover Dylan’s “God on Our Side,” thus demonstrating the band's lack of understanding
of its own limits. They bounce back on “Love, Love,” a gentle parody of cliched love songs.

The second side, however, disappoints. “I Will,” while relatively enjoyable, is no different than anything that the band put on
its first record. “Two Person” is a banal embarrassment that does not deserve to be on vinyl. And “Home,” which
ends the album, is muddled, unclear, and boring. The exception is the beautiful “No Pretties.” A bittersweet love song, it
is highlighted by tiptoeing keyboards, a funky bass, a metal solo, Beatlesque harmonies, and sublime lyrics. Also, “The Ocean” matches
the oozing brilliance of the first side, without displacing the strength of “No Pretties.”

Though Between Two Words may not warrant immediate purchase, it certainly deserves to be heard. And while this album is
not first-rate, Wire Train has shown in their better songs that they are certainly capable of some fine pop. Keep
your eye on these guys, I feel sure that you will see Wire Train in the future.

THE ROAD TO A COLLEGE DEGREE IS EXPENSIVE

AIR FORCE ROTC CAN PAVE THE WAY

There are a lot of scary stories about the cost of college education these days. Many high school students aren't
planning to attend college because they don't have the money. BUT WAIT! Air Force ROTC can help. With our scholarship
programs, we will pay for your college tuition, books, along with certain fees AND pay you $100 per month for
living expenses.

After you receive your degree, you'll be eligible for a commission as an Air Force Officer. If you can qualify,
Air Force ROTC can mean a college degree and a brighter future for you. Find out more. For your country
and yourself, make Air Force ROTC a part of your plans. Contact:

To Place An Ad:
1) Send it to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson N.C. 28036.
2) Call The Davidsonian at 892-2000 ext. 148.
3) Contact John Elster (Advertising Manager).

All ads must be received by Tuesday before Friday’s issue.
