Soccer back on winning track, p. 7

The Davidsonian
Volume LXXVI, Number 4
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, October 3, 1986

Open Forum debates Davidson divestment controversy
By JIM DILLON

A recommendation on Davidson's policy regarding investment in companies who do business in South Africa was scheduled to be presented
to the Board of Trustees this morning by the finance committee, who held an open forum for students, faculty, and
staff of the college to voice their opinions regarding the policy yesterday in the 900 Room.

Ralph Holt, chairman of the committee, stated that the forum would have an impact on the committee’s recommendation although he
declined to comment on what that recommendation would be.

“Our policy is of an open forum,” Holt said. “We certainly hope to come up with a solution to what
is certainly not a simple problem.” Holt noted that although the committee would definitely make a recommendation to the board,
that recommendation may be that further study on the issue is necessary and that the board has a number of
alternatives to consider.

The committee heard statements from 20 people. Thirteen of the speakers advocated divestment of investments from companies doing business with
South Africa while seven suggested that divestment was not the answer to the apartheid problem. All 20 indicated that they
thought apartheid was wrong. Twelve of the speakers were students, and eight were faculty and staff members. Five of the
speakers were black. Each speaker was allowed three minutes to present his view though some went over the limit.

French professor Alan Singerman spoke first, quoting statistics on the South African situation. He noted that “a strong majority” of
the Davidson faculty had advocated divestment of college investments and added that “there is no other significant action we can
take.”

College chaplain Charlie Summers cited the Bible as evidence for divestment, adding that the Presbyterian Church has called for selected
phase divestment and has indicated that the denomination is “moving in a way toward total divestment.” Summers said that by
divesting Davidson would express its “church-relatedness.”

Economics professor Clark Ross was the first to speak against divestment. Ross expressed his outrage toward the situation in South
Africa but said that divestment would not lead to solving the problem.

Administration silences Chamber's buzzers
By NELLE McCORKLE

Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty Robert Williams decided to eliminate the Chambers buzzer that signals
the change of classes for a one-month trial period following an Executive Committee of the Faculty recommendation. The buzzer, which
currently sounds at 10 minutes before and on the hour, is expected to be turned off by the Physical Plant
immediately, Williams said.

Williams said his decision to test silencing the buzzer emerged from faculty suggestions. “It was brought to my attention by
a number of faculty members, particularly new faculty, that the bells were... annoying, obtrusive, and possibly unnecessary and that they
smacked of high school,” he said. Williams called the use of buzzers “a symbolic issue in terms of...”

The Chambers bell, located on the building’s roof, will continue to chime at the same intervals as the...Here is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

buzzer; Davidson College Presbyterian Church bells ring on the quarter hour. Features: Inside International goes outside this year - of
what kind of an institution we wish to be. I wouldn’t call it an issue — it’s a symbol of
our faculty responsibility to conduct classes on time.” Emphasizing the trial nature of turning off the buzzer, Williams said, “It’s
an experiment. At the end of a month, we’ll review the situation and decide whether we want to buzz again.”
Buzzers in Dana science and Martin chemical buildings remain unaffected by Williams' decision. He cited heating/cooling systems in those buildings
which block the bell’s sound as the reason for retaining buzzers there. body’s thinking. It tends to reinforce the idea
learning is packaged in fifty-minute intervals.” New English professor Hoke Perkins said, “I think the buzzers are intrusive, especially when
you consider that we have the bell at the quarter hour everyone can hear. That’s a more aesthetic way of
reminding faculty it’s about time to wind up a lecture.” problem of apartheid. Ross stated that “active divestment is a
once only statement” whereas retaining investments with such companies allows stockholders to have some influence on the nation. Senior Lynn
Michie spoke of her summer spent in Namibia (formerly Southwest Africa) which is currently occupied by South Africa. She related
the story of a mother whose two sons were forced into hiding. “The time is now to do something.” she
said. “It’s past time, and so I urge divestment.” Sophomore John Engel equated divestment to “Pilot's washing his hands of
the crucifixion.” Engel argued for the economic growth of the college and said that no compromises should be made to
a recent surge of activism on campus. He said that such activism was the result of “McCarthyism of the 80’s”
which insinuates that all who do not support divestment are racists. Senior Bill Bugg began by asking the question “What
has divesting to do with apartheid?” He stated divestiture would actually strengthen the system of apartheid currently in practice in
South Africa, adding that to divest “would Continued on page 2 to class on time.” “I don’t like when the
buzzer cuts off teachers,” junior Laura Fannin said, “The distinction between the bell and that buzzer is the distinction between
euphony and cacophony.” Economics professor Charles Ratliff suggested addition of classroom wall clocks if the Chambers buzzer is eliminated. “I
can do with or without the buzzer,” he said. “I’ve been here forty years with them; I’m so used to
them.” Ratliff also suggested, “We may have to send for extra tuition because classes will be running longer.” One who
suggested elimination of the Chambers buzzer to Williams was anthropology and sociology professor Grant Jones, who said, “If you’re in
the middle of a thought, you can’t stop a thought at ten minutes until the hour, but the buzzer stops
everybody’s thinking. It tends to reinforce the idea learning is packaged in fifty-minute intervals.” Sophomore Norma Rodriquez said, “I think
the buzzers allow the teacher to be aware that the class is over. I don’t like the bells and buzzers,
but I have classes right after each other, and if the professor’s lecture runs over an hour, then it would
be impossible to get to class on time.” Opinions: Letters: Former hall counselors question past decisions Page 9 A call
to maintain fraternities Page 7

---

This cleaned text maintains the original structure, punctuation, and meaning of the provided OCR text.
