~ Sports Page, By EDWIN PAGE

What were the Trustees thinking? That is a question that has entered my mind many times since the decision to move to the Colonial League was made. I tried to reserve judgment until all the facts were in. I kept telling myself that they must know something. Surely they would not simply cast our athletic program into a void. I wanted to believe that somehow, things would work out. Tuesday, however, it became apparent that there would be no pleasant surprise, no Trustees smiling and saying, “See, we knew it would be okay the whole time.”

Wildcats falter under second half pressure

Tuesday, it became very apparent that it would most certainly not be okay. Tuesday, the Southern Conference voted 4-3 to deny Davidson’s request to remain in the conference without playing football. I sympathize with the Trustees’ desire to see the football team be competitive, and I realize that this is not possible in the Southern Conference. I know how painful it can be to watch the Cats getting trounced regularly by their SC opponents, but I question the logic of tossing away automatic NCAA bids in basketball and baseball as well as the great rivalries that have developed in the SC in order to move to a football league that is much, much farther away and against whose members we are 0 for our last 10.

While it is painful to watch the Davidson footballers get slaughtered week after week in the SC, I have a feeling it might be even more painful to watch our basketball team play a season with virtually no hope of attending the NCAA tournament. It might be painful also to watch our recently rejuvenated men’s sports program deteriorate because we no longer have a competitive conference to use as a recruiting tool. Three Davidson teams posted twenty-win seasons last year, proving that we belong in the Southern Conference, and now instead of being excited over their achievements, we can only wonder about their future.

I believe the Trustees must have thought that we would be allowed to remain in the Southern Conference. Maybe they overestimated the value of tradition. Davidson has a great basketball name and fifty years of history in the Southern Conference, but ultimately, it was not enough. And now we are on our own. All is not lost, of course. There are other conferences out there, and some might be better for Davidson than the SC. The best alternative seems to be the Colonial Athletic Association (not to be confused with the Colonial League) which contains schools such as Navy, Richmond, and James Madison. It would be an ideal place for Davidson. The only problem is they don’t seem interested. CAA commissioner Tom Yeager was quoted in Thursday’s Observer as saying it would be “at least several years” before they would consider adding another team.

By MIKE ADAMS

A second half slump kept the Davidson football team out of the end zone and out of the win column as it blew a 10-6 lead and fell to the Wofford Terriers 20-10 last Saturday. The Wildcats led 10-6 after a sloppy first half for both teams. The Terriers turned the ball over four times in the half, including two fumbles and an interception on their first three possessions.

Davidson’s offense could generate no momentum either. The Cats were never able to put together a strong drive. They gave the ball up on punts five times and lost one fumble deep in Wofford territory in the first half. The 10-6 lead the Cats held at the halfway mark came as a result of Wofford turnovers. Davidson opened a 3-0 lead when Wofford fumbled on their own 17-yard line. Senior quarterback Jack McCollum was unable to advance the Cats, gaining just four yards in three plays, so he switched positions and kicked a 29-yard field goal. Wofford answered midway through the second quarter, moving the ball 72 yards.yards in eight plays for a touchdown. The Terriers loosened the Wildcat defense with a mixture of draws, sweeps, and passes. They scored on a 10-yard sweep and led 6-3 after the extra point attempt failed. The Terriers returned to their earlier form on their next possession, though, tossing an interception that sophomore cornerback Steve Neff returned 24 yards to the Wofford 27. It took only three plays for freshman quarterback Peter Hughes, subbing for McCollum, to get the Cats in the end zone for their only touchdown of the day. After an incomplete pass, Hughes threw a strike to sophomore wide receiver Michael Gross for a first down at the 10-yard line. On the next play, Hughes lofted a beautifully-timed pass over the shoulder of freshman wide receiver Shan Teel in the left corner of the end zone to give the Cats the lead.

The first two possessions of the second half were enough to bury the Cats. Davidson received the kickoff and took possession at its own 35-yard line after a nice return. Two plays moved the ball to the 48. And then things fell apart. Two penalties moved the Cats back to their own 33: first down, 25 yards to go. Three plays lost a yard and the Cats were forced to punt. Wofford took possession at its own 36-yard line and proceeded to march 64 yards in 10 plays for the lead-taking — and ultimately, game-winning — touchdown. The Wildcats never recovered from the chaos of their first second-half possession, combining penalties (Davidson was penalized 12 times for 110 yards in the game) and turnovers to keep themselves out of scoring position until the end of the game. On their final possession, the Cats managed a drive to the Wofford two-yard line but failed to convert either a touchdown or a field goal.

The Terriers scored an insurance touchdown in the fourth quarter for the final margin of 20-10. Wofford marched 68 yards in just four running plays, including a 30-yard touchdown run, over a tired and frustrated Wildcat defensive unit.

Offensively, Saturday’s game saw some strong performances by youthful Wildcats. Hughes played a nice game at quarterback, completing seven passes in 15 attempts for 82 yards and a touchdown. Gross also played well, catching three passes for 33 yards and rushing once on an end reverse for 20 yards. One of Gross’ receptions set up Hughes' second-quarter touchdown pass.

Defensively, the Cats were led by the gutsy play of senior defensive end Marcus Allen. Hampered by a leg injury, Allen played almost every defensive minute and had four tackles in the Wofford backfield.

On Saturday, the Cats travel to Johnson City, Tennessee to meet Southern Conference opponent East Tennessee State. East Tennessee was trounced by Appalachian State and the Cats might be able to pull an upset.

Davidson would be considered. What would we do in the meantime? The Big South conference is new to Division I and might just be very taken with Davidson’s name and basketball tradition. The Big South, however, is home to such big-name programs as Winthrop and Radford and has no automatic NCAA bids for the conference champs. It is, to put it mildly, a big step down from the Southern Conference. It may sound cruel and uncaring, but we should have stayed in the Southern Conference and closed our collective eyes during football season. I realize it is not an ideal situation to cast our football team to the wolves to save all the other sports, but is it not even worse to cast the rest of the teams to these wolves to save football? Sacrificing one for the good of the rest seems better than sacrificing the rest for the good of one. What were the Trustees thinking? Maybe they weren’t.

Davidson College Student Store
Good through Oct. 4.
SPECIAL
Color Print Film Developing and Printing (NO LIMIT)
Standard Value
12 Exposure $1.97
15 Exposure $2.47
24 Exposure $3.77
36 Exposure $4.97

Mike Hood