18 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
David Williams, Associate Editor
Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Heidi Hooker, News Editor
Bill Bugg, Features Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Tony Griffin, Advertising Managers
Will Mitchell, Dan Rikard, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Last spring’s editorial tirades about student apathy do not apply this spring. In the past few weeks, students have seemed
to turn self-centered activity into activism: the sheer length of this week’s Opinions section bears witness to that switch. The
giant slumbering beast of apathy has turned into a hyperactive humanitarianist.

The most obvious example of this hyperactivity is last Saturday’s Solidarity Celebration held in response (not necessarily opposition) to the
Ku Klux Klan rally which occurred simultaneously. It was a great idea that was both well executed and effective. The
celebration reached a degree of success that other rallies can only hope to attain. A group of students acted quickly
and almost literally turned Davidson into a ghost town which was filled with people in Halloween costumes living in bygone
days.

A group that is living now and thinking of the future is the students who built the “shanty town” in
between the Student Union and the Martin Science Building. This group, tagged Students Against Apartheid, is following the example set
by students at many other colleges and universities by building lean-to’s made of junk. These attention-grabbing structures were built to
convince the Trustees of Davidson (who are incidentally visiting this weekend) to divest from South African companies. They may just
succeed.

Another group steeped in controversy apparently has formed in the past two weeks: the Gay Support Group. Long overdue in
its formation, this group strives to provide, as the name suggests, support for the gay community at Davidson. The founders,
some of whom incidentally are straight, saw a need and worked to meet it. Their first meeting was well attended,
and we can only hope that more people (both straights and gays) will go to the next meeting.

The YSSC cookout this past Tuesday brought to light the functions which that group performs. These functions are also enumerated
in its name: Student Service Corps. Their whole program is oriented towards activism; they do nothing but help others.

From the four examples above, it is clear that activism means helping others. The students at Davidson are finally crawling
out of the ’70s “me” decade and into the ’80s of volunteerism. Davidson is becoming less provincial and more diverse,
and students are becoming more receptive to this diversity.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 20036. Phone (704) 882-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of
the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $13 per year, or $24 per year for first class postal rates.
Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aureli, Laura Ballenger, Jim Dillon, Keith Finch, Laura Gabel, Andrea Gross, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine.
Features Staff: Andy Ball, assistant features editor, Laura Ballenger, Mark Chen, Lee Eichelberger, Trey Jammes, Martha Johnson, Jenny Livingston, Nelle
McCorkle.
Sports Staff: Emil Cekada, Boyd Coggins, Pam Harmann, Susan Wilkins.
Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, David Petranick.
Staff Artist: Richard Cloudt.
Production Staff: Beth Bryson, Kim Crabtree, Clisby Hall, Kim Robertson, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yarborough.
Compositors: Doug Kim, Lynda Korfmann, Laure Van Dierdonck.Prospect X7 had the quality of R for this project. Ben, the issue
of case committees built an issue of South Fee COMMUCts. Jan will march in to show a bad idea, building
an opportunity in any case. For more, it was destroyed later. That important aspect in the fight was made clear,
as in the case of Betane, which showed the short-lived homes and infiltration. The ceremony remains in me. Come on,
FrsceulTenss.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Troglodytes

To the Editors:

Once again, Tim Brown’s article on Special Operations (11 April 86) rears its ugly head. Sayres Rudy says that since
I have the impudence to question the “facts” presented in the article, I am not quite equal to a “troglodyte”
(I had to look that one up). As I remember, Tim Brown paraphrases a Captain Burgess as saying our Special
Ops training is below par. When did Tim talk to the Captain? What were his exact words? In what context?
He says that a helicopter pilot threatened to kill a questioning National Guardsman. Really! Is it an accurate quote? My
experience compels me to think otherwise. Sorry, but that is how we troglodytes think. Where did Mr. Brown do his
research; Time, Life, Sports Illustrated? Did the soldiers really go “splat... instead of splash?” Only a troglodyte would question such
well-researched information. All in all, what makes Mr. Brown an authority on Unconventional Warfare? It makes a poor dumb troglodyte
wonder. We troglodytes have become a bit uppity since the invention of the wheel. We question what we read. We
think that twelve years of experience outweighs a trip to the magazine rack. Sorry, but that’s the way we troglodytes
think.

Donald Kropp

Divest

To the Editors:

On Feb. 22, 1979, the Board of Trustees published their “Statement of Davidson Trustee Endowment Investment Policy,” which deals directly
with their stand on investment in South Africa. The statement says that, “the college’s investments should not be made in
securities or corporations or in other assets which are used in ways which contradict or violate the Christian commitment of
the college.” Surely the policy of apartheid in South Africa contradicts and violates the Christian commitment and also the morals
of the Trustees. So, how can the Trustees defend their policy of investment in corporations within South Africa? The publication
states that, “there is certainly agreement... that the South African government is in violation of human rights... But, so are
the governments of many other major countries throughout the world.” This is nothing short of blatant hypocrisy. They are fooling
themselves that they are doing right when dealing with an undeniable wrong. The Executive Committee of the Faculty has asked
that the Board of Trustees review their seven-year-old investment policy with respect to Davidson College’s investments in South Africa. We
agree. It is time the Trustees remove the smoke-screen of false morality. Divest. Now.

Students Against Apartheid

Spencer

To the Editors:

Spencer House sent the following letter to the Committee on Campus and Religious Life. The letter addresses the “Option System”
proposed by the Patterson Court Selection Committee. The CCRL was to vote on the “Option System” Wed., April 30.

To: The Committee On Campus and Religious Life

“Let Learning Be Cherished Where Liberty Has Arisen”

Respect and gratitude go to the Patterson Court Selection Committee for their efforts to “improve the college community.” Dan Murrey
was right, the Committee has a lot on its hands. Spencer House feels, however, that the Committee's aim, “to make
the system as self-governing as possible,” misses the target. The atmosphere of freedom and responsibility to which Davidson College aspires
appeals to many. Students value the “democratic campus social system” described in the Davidson catalogue.
