Friday, November 7, 1986
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Professors preview election results in forum
By RAY THORNTON

To discuss possible outcomes of the Nov. 4 election, a pre-election forum, sponsored by College Democrats, met Monday evening. Dr.
Tom Kazee, Dr. Lou Ortmayer, and Dr. Mary Thornberry, professors of political science, were the featured speakers.

“The current situation presents confusing cues to the analyst,” Kazee stated in preface to his election predictions. “We have an
extremely popular President... however, the popularity of the President is not a helpful indicator in this election,” he surmised. Likewise,
Kazee dismissed the economic indicator as a valid cue in making predictions, concluding that “the outcome will be determined by
local factors.”

Although he claimed to detect a modest Democratic surge, Kazee maintained that “there is no evidence of sweeping changes in
either direction.” With some hesitation, Kazee predicted that a 55-45 Democratic Senate would emerge from the balloting, reflecting a net
gain of eight seats by the Democrats. “There is only an outside chance that the Republicans could pick up more
seats,” he added.

Kazee predicted that Terry Sanford would defeat Sen. Jim Broyhill, R-NC. Kazee favored Mack Mattingly, Republican candidate in Georgia’s Senate
contest. Bob Graham (D) was Kazee’s pick in the Florida race. In the California squeaker, Kazee opted for Democrat Alan
Cranston and for Democrat Harry Reid in Nevada. Kazee favored Barbara Mikulski (D) in the Maryland decision and Republican Christopher
Bond in the Missouri race.

Kazee also addressed elections to the House of Representatives, concluding that “Democrats looking for major House gains are doing wishful
thinking.” He predicted a 10-15 seat gain for House Democrats, giving them a 100-seat majority for the next two years.
Kazee favored Alex McMillan (R) in the 9th District House race.

“A tremendous opportunity exists for Republicans to make serious in-roads in governorships,” Kazee stated. Kazee stressed the gubernatorial powers of
redistricting as a reason for paying particular attention to these results. Kazee predicted that the GOP would capture 17 of
the 36 gubernatorial races, reflecting a net gain of eight governorships for the Republicans. In conclusion, Kazee addressed the recent
proliferation of negative campaigning tactics.

Ortmayer addressed the election’s possible effect upon foreign policy. “If the Democrats regain control of the...

Callahan critiques the American advertising industry
By BETSEY BRYAN

Monday night Ralph Callahan, president of the Henderson Advertising Agency of Greenville, SC, spoke on “the implications of advertising on
society.” Sponsored by Davidson’s Pre-Management Committee, Callahan came in connection with the American Advertising Educational Foundation. Callahan, a graduate of
the University of Virginia and the Thunderbird School of International Management, spent several years in New York with the Young
and Rubicam Agency, supervising accounts such as General Foods, Procter & Gamble, and Johnson & Johnson. He also managed Young
and Rubicam’s Amsterdam office for three years. He drew upon these experiences to discuss the economic and social impacts of
advertising in America.

Callahan addressed the tremendous success of advertising in America. He stated that over the past few decades, “advertising expenditures have
increased every year except 1981. In the U.S., clients spent $87 billion on advertising in 1984; in 1986, that figure
increased to $94 billion.” Callahan explained that the growth of advertising corresponds with the growth of the gross national product,
and advertising money makes up about two percent of the GNP. Newspapers, which account for 27 percent of all the
advertising dollars spent, are the most popular ad medium, followed by television, mail, magazines, and radio.

Callahan pointed out that individual ads can be expensive. “A one-minute ad aired once during the Superbowl costs $1 million.”
However, Callahan also claimed, “Advertising is by far the most cost-effective means of communication, more so than 10 years ago.
A 30-second television ad aired during prime time costs approximately $0.04 per viewer. The same amount of time on the
radio costs $0.23 per listener, and a magazine page costs about $0.37 per reader.”

Callahan also commented on the effects of the recent mergers within the industry. “It’s as...Here is the cleaned OCR text,
preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Senate, things won't change very much,” he theorized. In support of his opinion, Ortmayer said, “The Reagan agenda is already
well set and not likely to change. Furthermore, Reagan’s wish-list items are already in trouble in the Republican Senate.” Ortmayer
also held that committee chairmanships would not alter policy, adding, “It would be difficult for a Democratic Congress to take
a very divergent line from a popular president.” Ortmayer’s emphasis was that a switch to Democratic control would make for
greater debate on arms control, aid to the Nicaraguan contras, trade policy, South African sanctions, and the Reagan Doctrine, the
administration’s attempt to roll back the tide of Soviet expansionism and Third World anti-Americanism.

“All reasonable voters will go to bed before they know who controls the Senate,” said Thornberry in her introductory remarks.
“This is a peculiar election in terms of issues like farm economy,” she said, adding, “Here we have Republicans running
as far away as possible from a popular President.” “The Democrats ought to capitalize on this, but they have no
workable alternative. The fact is that neither party has developed a strong, imaginative policy with regard to the farm economy
problem,” Thornberry said. Concerning policy implications of the election, Thornberry said that she was “very pessimistic about major policy changes
until a major economic crunch hits.” Thornberry addressed the need to keep the American electorate involved and the efforts of
the Republicans to attract the black constituency, a move she called “a breakthrough in images.” After the panelists spoke, they
answered questions fielded by the audience. Approximately 30 students attended.

Though the agencies are run by Wall Street; all they’re after is the bottom line, the profit. I think incorporation
detracts from the people’s side of the business, which is really important, and I think smaller, independent agencies will benefit.”
However, Callahan quickly pointed out that despite the recent consolidation, no one company monopolizes the industry. “About one-half the advertising
is done by some 8000 agencies. The other half by the advertiser himself. Since 1962, the top agencies’ share of
the market has grown proportionately slowly. No one business accounts for more than 2.5 percent of the total.”

The development of an individual advertisement was another topic of Callahan’s speech. “Eighty percent of the planning for an ad
is done before the copywriters and art directors even begin because psychographics, the study of the psychological factors influencing the
targeted buyer, is important. Also, 95 percent of all ads are subjected to testing in limited markets before released. It
costs $130,000 to produce an ad and another $500,000 to run it on The Cosby Show, so we can’t afford
to release an unconvincing ad. And before the finished ad is released, lawyers of the agency, the client, and the
paper or network review it thoroughly to prevent false and misleading advertising.”

Callahan admitted that some ads are “false, strident, and tasteless,” but he maintained that the majority of that this “minuscule
percentage” are local ads that fall under no form of supervision. National ad campaigns, on the other hand, are regulated
by the National Advertising Review Board; a “self-regulating mechanism composed of media officials, ad executives, and members of the public.”
This group is working to change popular misconceptions about advertising. “Gallup polls indicate that most Americans feel that ad people
are direct descendants of Mississippi riverboat gamblers,” Callahan stated, “but this really isn’t true. In the past 12 years, the
group has received 1820 claims of false advertising, but only 38 percent of these were even worthy of review. Advertisers
make every attempt not to mislead the public.

“In addition to regulating ads, the NARB also coordinates the voluntary service campaigns ad agencies undertake. Companies annually donate $800
million of free advertising to groups such as the United Way and the United Negro College Fund.” Callahan expressed disapproval
for the inconsistencies in advertising laws. “Beer and wine are potentially harmful to people, yet they're advertised on TV. Why
not cigarettes? If a product is legally produced and legally sold, it should be legally advertised on television. People can
abuse anything, even caffeine. Where do you draw the line?”

---
