2 Friday, October 17, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News Shorts

Incidents reported during the month of September:
- 6 Larcenies: total value $1,185
- Hit and Run: damage to vehicle $700.00
- Hit and Run: damage to vehicle $400.00
- Damage to Property $450.00
- Damage to Property $75.00

Campus Security asks that you lock your door, park your car properly, and report vandalism and false alarms. Campus Security responded to eight fire alarms at Belk and one at Sentelle. All were false alarms caused by someone either pulling the box or setting off a smoke bomb. Anyone who sets off a false alarm or tampers with the alarm system is guilty of violating the N.C. Penal Code and may be charged with a misdemeanor and may be imprisoned up to six months or fined $500, or both. The Police Hot Line outside the Security office is not just for emergencies. This phone may be used anytime the officer on duty is not in the office.

Jody Minus and security officer Rick Moore contributed to this article.

Retirement community breaks ground

The Pines at Davidson, a non-profit continuing care retirement community, broke ground Sunday for its development located on Pine Road. Comprising 47 acres, the development will consist of 181 residential apartments and a 60-bed nursing facility. The Pines will offer several levels of care, from skilled nursing, intermediate care, and assisted living within its health center to independent residence in its three-story central building and ten duplex cottages. The proposed building will provide housing for approximately 320 people.

Marketed by Spectrum Marketing Inc., a Gastonia-based firm specializing in non-profit continuing care retirement communities, the Pines has received reservations for 105 units. Of the future residents of these confirmed reserved units, 75-80 percent currently live within a 25-mile radius of Davidson. According to Spectrum Vice-President and Marketing Director of the Pines Bobby Sumner, Davidson College Presbyterian Church decided to raise initial seed money for the development. Contributions now total $1,700,000 and the fund-raising campaign continues, he said. Asked why Davidson was chosen as the site for the Pines, Sumner cited the character of the town and college and proximity to Lake Norman and Charlotte. The Pines will provide 130 jobs, including many student positions, Sumner said. He hopes to work closely with the college and institute a foster grandparent program at the Pines.

Material contributed by Nelle McCorkle.

Tool shed thief apprehended

Davidson town police arrested a 27-year-old Cornelius area man and charged him with breaking and entering and larceny following a tool theft at the college carpentry shop late Saturday night or early Sunday morning. Currently being held at Mecklenburg County Jail on $15,000 bond, suspect Ernest Sloan awaits trial. Police have recovered most of the stolen tools, valued at $1690. College carpentry employees discovered the break-in Sunday upon finding a broken pane in the carpentry shop’s door. The shop is located beneath the football stadium.

John Crosland Company and Rogers Builders will begin construction, expected to be completed during March 1988. Receiving no government funding, the Pines will depend on charitable contributions to supplement the cost of its maintenance. A 30-member non-profit Board of Directors will govern the development.

According to college Public Safety Director Jackie Hughes, increased security measures following the theft consist of planned installation of wire glass in the carpentry shop door.

Material contributed by Nelle McCorkle.

Continued from page 1

The heat was estimated to be 1600 degrees Celsius, a temperature hard to reach without a flamethrower, she speculated. Interregional cooperation and assaults on the drug trafficking have helped, Sevillano said, but “the situation is more complex than previously thought. Sanctions will only damage U.S. interests.” Sevillano instead advocated... did note that a Bolivian...Revolt in — you two years in jail at least.” Both unconditional economic aid and direct intervention by U.S. forces such as the Coast Guard and the Drug Enforcement Agency. The United States at present forbids itself to offer arms to the drug war abroad. Cooperation between the consumer and producer countries is the only way to effectively deal with the scene, Sevillano said. “The cocaine lords have better equipment than the armies of the countries involved.”

In response to whether a crackdown would harm United States banking interests due to the increased inability of the Latin American governments to pay their foreign debts, Sevillano remarked that drug traffickers have in the past offered to pay the external debts of each country but were officially turned down. She questioned later in the period following the talk Sevillano’s assertion that much of the “narcoterrorism” in the region is caused by the “marriage of convenience” between leftist “Maoist” insurgent groups such as the Shining Path. “They have to get their money somewhere, and where better than the drug trade?” she asked. “They take the money to get arms and give the drug smugglers freedom to operate. It unifies crime with Russian interests.”

Interestingly enough, Sevillano remarked, drug use in the region is still limited. “In Peru, possession of, say, .001 gram will get you two years in jail at least.” One form rising fast in the region, she said, is the use of pitos, which is the smoking of unrefined coca paste. The users get a cocaine high but have also ingested the kerosene used in the treatment and numerous other carcinogens. “You see 16-year-olds on the streets with gray faces and blue lips.” The refined product is shipped up north, “and they get what is left.”

Although the United States’ increasingly popular “crack” form of cocaine gives a more potent high with less actual substance, in theory lessening demand, Sevillano stated that she considers any new use of the drug to be an expansion of the drug trade. “Crack” is also highly addictive, she said.

Sevillano first came to Charlotte as a senior in high school. She spent her senior year in Shelby and went back to Peru to earn a degree at the University of Trujillo, where she was a political science major. She later earned a law degree in the footsteps of her father, who was a Peruvian jurist and served on the Peruvian Supreme Court.

Sprinkled throughout Sevillano’s talk were statistics concerning the drug trade and drug abuse. An estimated 5,000 people in the U.S. use cocaine for the first time every day. The dollar value of Latin American drug trading is $100 billion, all of it from the United States. The cocaine business is relatively new, dating only to the late 1970s, and Peru and Bolivia produce 90 percent of the world’s coca. In 1983, 58 to 79 tons were produced, and the number has gone up one-third each year since. Coca plants are hardy perennials that are ready for harvest after their first six months and can be harvested every three months thereafter for thirty years.

Sevillano summed up and urged the United States to “unite our forces to take action and fight the war on the domestic front, in the hearts and the minds of the people.”

Happy Homecoming Alumni & Grads! Box Lunches available for the Football game on Saturday. Come by for a snack: frozen yogurt, sandwiches, beverages, and snacks. Downtown Davidson.

Keep up with the times! Dorm or Home Delivery of the Sunday New York Times. Contact Georgia Ringle for details at 892-8048 or P.O. Box 496. $3.50.