Wednesday, December 10, 1986

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Weekend exposes other side of life

By LUCIA KENDALL

Editor's Note: Lucia Kendall participated in the Chapel Committee-sponsored Awareness Weekend last weekend, along with two dozen other students, working in the poorest section of Charlotte.

The purpose of the weekend I spent in Charlotte, according to College Chaplain Charlie Summers, was “to sensitize Davidson students to the problems people face in the inner city. We also want to introduce them to different kinds of urban Christian ministry. I feel this is an experience in learning compassion.”

We stayed at Christ the King Center in Optimist Park, the section of Charlotte with the lowest income and the highest crime rate. We spent Friday evening getting to know each other through a series of icebreakers and games followed by some discussion about our work, then goofing around for a while.

Saturday morning we divided into work groups for the day. I helped make soup for a soup kitchen run by Woody Wood at the Salvation Army Center, where over 50 people come in every Sunday for a hot meal. Wood said that although some of the people who come in are young and just too lazy or unmotivated to find a job, most of them are unable to find work, either because they are too old, or blind, or mentally retarded.

Afterward, I did some repair work at Siegle Avenue Presbyterian Church, a small building for a total of 50 members (It’s not DCPC). Our group worked on the lock on their door, hung banners and a cross, put a new wall in their bathroom, filled a hole in the parking lot with concrete, and painted a cabinet.

Later, Libby, the woman in charge of the church’s Christian Education, took me to visit a member of the congregation who had broken her ankle. Seeing her apartment was the first time I had ever been inside a low-income housing project. I had expected it to be small, although it was still hard for me to realize an entire family lived in a place already so cluttered I had a hard time walking between the furniture. What I was not prepared for was the smell that resulted from too many people in not enough space. In the summer, when the temperature can get above 100 degrees outside, I can hardly imagine what it must be like.

The woman was delighted to see us and very cheerful the whole time we were there, which made me ashamed about my own complaining and grumpiness when my life is so much easier.

After lunch (which included a wonderful grilled cheese by Joe Thomas), Mercedes, a girl from Costa Rica who is living with Charlie’s family, and I went to rake leaves for an old woman in the community. After we finished the front yard she invited us in for a snack. She was friendly and appreciative of our coming over, and told us how glad she was that God has blessed her. Before we left she gave both of us a very strong bear hug.

Later, Richard Banks, the director of Christ the King, told me that her husband, who had been “a cantankerous fellow; you could never do anything to make him happy,” had died recently. Also, several months ago when two men were fighting on the street, one of them shot at the other, but missed, and instead hit her son, who was just walking out of a store. Not long after that he died. She had told me that God had gotten her through some hard times, but I had no idea what she had been through.

After dinner we had a chance to talk as a group about the day’s activities, then those of us who didn’t go back to Davidson went to a movie. Sunday morning we had a Bible study, then went to the service at Siegle Avenue, led by our own Charlie Summers. All the people who went on the trip were glad they did. In fact, two people have decided to go back and help serve in the soup kitchen again.

Freshman Therese Gyauch said, “The weekend really lived up to its name. It was a real growth experience. I was impressed by the sense of community in the people we met. They may not have a lot of material possessions, but they do have something very special.”

“It was a good experience because it showed we're all just people and we all need to help each other,” said senior Forrest Bowen. Freshman Drury Carr commented, “It gives you an awareness about poverty-stricken people and opens your eyes to the world outside of Davidson. It also makes you realize that doing things to help people will make a difference.”

One major illustration of the work of the people in Optimist Park is their reaction to a situation in which the city council planned to build a major highway through the center of the neighborhood, thus getting rid of “the bad section of town.” The community got together and decided to propose an alternate route and back it up with reasons why it would work. They found another place for the highway, and the city council adopted their plan. As Richard Banks said, “It shows you what people can do without much education and without much money, but with a lot of hard work and dedication.”

By DAVID WILLIAMS

Around the World — As information about the Reagan administration’s controversial sale of arms to Iran and the channeling of profits to Nicaraguan rebels continued to be disclosed, House and Senate leaders moved to establish Watergate-style committees to investigate the situation. Both former National Security Adviser John Poindexter and Lt. Col. Oliver North invoked the Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination and refused to testify about their involvement inthe arms sales. But White House spokesmen said North had written a chronicle of the operation which omits significant details of the program and is believed to have “lied” to Poindexter and White House Chief of Staff Donald Regan when questioned about a November 1985 arms shipment by Israel. Administration officials also reported that Poindexter had urged Reagan to resume arms sales to Iran after the President had decided to stop the shipments in December 1985. Congressional lawyers advised the House and Senate that Reagan and his aides may have violated five provisions of the Arms Export Control Act by selling weapons to Iran. Reagan for the first time admitted he had made mistakes in executing his policies but denied he had tried to swap arms for hostages and said he was not fully informed of the diversion of profits to the contras. Headlining the news for the week Dec. 3, administration officials said this money was funneled through a Swiss bank account administered by North. Shultz also complained that the White House had established secret communications with U.S. Ambassador to Lebanon John Kelly on negotiations for the release of the hostages. Shultz also identified retired Air Force General Richard Secord as a central figure in the Administration’s secret diplomacy with Iran.

At least 59 Iraqis were killed and 100 wounded as Iranian forces shelled Basra, Iraq in retaliation for Iraqi air raids on the oil center of Ahwaz. Iraq then attacked power plants in the Iranian towns of Arak and Kanjwar and military bases in central Iran.

In a search for Nicaraguan rebels, at least 1,000 Sandinista troops crossed the Honduran border, wounded three Honduran guardsmen, and captured two others. President Reagan authorized U.S. army helicopters to airlift Honduran troops into action against the Nicaraguan forces, at the request of Honduran President Jose Hoyo.

In Paris at least 68 people were injured and one was killed in demonstrations by hundreds of thousands of students against legislation proposed by the French government to overhaul the country’s educational system. French President Jacques Chirac, citing “risks of violence,” surrendered to the protesters and withdrew the legislation.

Thousands of Hindus rampaged through the streets of New Delhi, India, in protest of the Sikh massacre of 22 Hindus in Punjab state last week. Police made over 1,500 arrests. Meanwhile, thousands of torch-carrying people marched through Bhopal, India, in a protest parade marking the second anniversary of the Union Carbide gas leak that killed 2,347 persons.

Egyptian prosecutors charged four military officers and 29 civilians with attempting to organize a Moslem holy war to topple the government of President Hosni Mubarak. South African President P.W. Botha apparently has pressured the country’s Newspaper Press Union into harsher self-censorship and strong measures enforcing press restrictions. The South African government also acknowledged that children between the ages of 11 and 15 are being detained without trial under the nation’s emergency decree. Honeywell, Inc. and Revlon Group, Inc. announced plans to sell operations in South Africa.

As Arab demonstrations against Israeli occupation of the West Bank continued, Israeli troops shot and wounded six Palestinians there. Meanwhile, a cease-fire in Lebanon disintegrated less than 24 hours after taking effect, as Palestinian guerrillas resumed fighting with Shiite Moslem militiamen in Beirut and southern Lebanon.

The Reverend Jesse Jackson in Tokyo said he would encourage an American boycott of Japanese products unless Japanese corporations begin awarding more dealerships, franchises, and advertising contracts to American minority business interests.

Across the Nation — President Reagan appointed Frank Carlucci, a former deputy director of the C.I.A. and a former deputy defense secretary, to replace Admiral John Poindexter as his national security adviser. Carlucci is Reagan’s fifth national security adviser in six years. White House spokesman Larry Speakes announced his resignation to take a $250,000 a year job as senior vice president of Merrill Lynch. Representative Jim Wright (D.-Texas) was chosen to be the new speaker of the House. Wright immediately proposed a delay in tax cuts for higher-income taxpayers to help balance the federal budget. Thomas Foley (D.-Washington) was elected to replace Wright as majority leader, and Tony Coelho (D.-California) was elected majority whip. Meanwhile, Robert Michel (R.-Illinois) was reelected as House minority leader, and Trent Lott (R.-Mississippi) was reelected minority whip.

Newly disclosed documents showed that NASA Administrator James Fletcher, who awarded the contract to Morton Thiokol for the design of the Challenger’s ill-fated booster rockets, had personal interests in the contract. Senator Albert Gore, Jr. (D.-Tenn.) said the new information warranted a Congressional investigation into the contract award.

Scientists said they have taken an important step in developing an AIDS vaccine by showing that only a fragment of protein from the AIDS virus is necessary for developing antibodies against it.

In Economic Headlines — U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter announced the appointment of Commerce Department trade official William Houston III as chief U.S. textile negotiator for the White House. Treasury Secretary James Baker signaled that the White House has ended its threats to veto any trade legislation approved by Congress and will work with Congress to “craft reasonable legislation.” Agriculture Department forecasters said farm income and agricultural exports should improve next year, and consumers will experience a modest increase in food prices. Government investigators said hundreds of American-based companies continue to trade with Libya despite the Reagan administration’s economic sanctions imposed on the country last January.