‘Inside Art ere’
Sl e me UC Friday, October 10, 1986

Brothers Opium Dream
The young do dream of purest love,
Without a doubt to mar.

To know — to hold eternity
Within another warmth.

The college kids went to a great party
He swears to God it was fun

Did you get smashed?
He got smashed

Or something it was a great party Yet in the bones of the embrace
Endures a numbing black —
A clear deceiving poison — poised,
To tear the taught trust slack

In the hour of my favor I gave heed to you
On the day of deliverance I came to your aid

A Friday night passes and becomes Saturday
I'd quote you a line if anything was said-

A Saturday passes and sinks quickly down
Another smash party, is nothing hallowed?

So love grows hot — collapses, burns,
The numbed orphans scream

Cruel reasoned disenchantments ’till,
The one divides in twain.

In the hour of my favor I gave heed to you
On the day of deliverance I came to your aid With endless wit the dream pretends

— A mute reality —
To imitate our destinies,

The meaning of fellowship seems to be lost And wake us when we cry.

In the eyes of a couple of college kids tonight
And in these circumstances full of emptiness,
With all of us here we have to undress Harris L. Eisenbaum
Now I lay me down to sleep
And before they even get to begin
My brothers tantalize my dreams

It's all too much but I must stand firm

In the hour of my favor I gave heed to you
On the day of deliverance I came to your aid Vigil

Well the day of deliverance has dawned As far as Africa
Now I say the hour has come. Sudeep Sen is concerned
His old life is over My God, what a lovely pair!
His new life begun Where has the world pursuits as pleasant? As close as fate

How laughed her mouth, how flew her hair, could be me
H.L. Broome, Jr. ’89 And how she tossed her breasts tumescent. am

Now longing chides the empty space.
I don’t know what I long for dearly. In all us bodies

Amanktra ‘Life’s called a dream for the human race — there blood runs

How I wish mine were that merely! here.
Ahmin dhamu d’faluv,
Seem plebie cosure neahme, Johann Chr. Guenther Elizabeth Dick ’88
Fu nebeha twenure neahme, translated/adapted by
Ahmin dhamu d’faluv. members of German 211
Ringo Starr ; Alex Hayden
