Opinions _ 7 The Davidsonian Friday, January 31, 1986

Feminism reduces a universal outlook
Reed Herrero

Last week the verdict was announced: Davidson students are guilty of misconceptions regarding feminism and guilty of refusing to recognize themselves as feminists. The sentence was also handed down: All educated and intelligent students should declare themselves feminists and jump on the feminist bandwagon and actively support the fight for women’s equality. But before I am convicted I would like the chance to defend myself (a male student) and my reasons for not being a card-carrying, active feminist.

During this long winter term, I have had the chance to do a lot of thinking. And there is one truth that keeps popping up in my classes when I least expect it. This truth has its background in thinkers as diverse as Thomas Aquinas and Jose Enrique Rodo. But I have found it best expressed by Jorge Luis Borges, when he postulates that “... a system is nothing more than the subordination of all the aspects of the universe to some one of them.” This statement implies that every system (Marxism, romanticism, sculpture, psychology, the scientific method, etc.) reduces our world to one aspect by which it approaches everything else. I believe that our role in this reduced, systematized world is to avoid being trapped by any one system of thought and to aspire, as Rodo writes, to develop in ourselves an unmutated example of humanity. I would drive this point even farther, believing that Christ, who was fully human and fully divine, is ultimately the best model we can hope to emulate.

Feminism is a system which subordinates all other concerns to the concerns of women and their struggle for equality. It is easy enough to say that “Feminism works to improve the situation for all individuals,” but in word and deed feminism preoccupies itself with women’s situations, separating their pains and victimizations from those of the rest of the world. Feminism reduces a universal outlook, and to condemn Davidson students for not reducing themselves to feminists is an injustice.

You may say that what I have called a universal outlook is a cop-out which permits us to hide behind words and beliefs, never taking action. For example, if one believes that apartheid is wrong but is not taking active measures such as divestment, demonstrations, and political pressure against South Africa, one might be condemned for helping to perpetuate apartheid. But when Bishop Desmond Tutu spoke at Duke Chapel he was not encouraging us concerning such active measures. Rather, he told us of his own encouragement upon receiving a letter from an Alaskan pastor whose small congregation was praying for him. With that kind of support, Bishop Tutu said that there is no hope for the continuation of apartheid in South Africa. And so it goes with feminism. I choose to take action simply by treating the women around me with the respect that they deserve as individuals. I don’t believe that putting feminist criticism in my research papers or joining a feminist committee is appropriate or necessary for me. Everyone chooses their own path, their own way of expressing what they believe. To force upon them the perspective of one system, feminism, and to prescribe a set of actions as if bringing down the word from the mountain, only alienates students to a greater extent.

Herrero is a sophomore from Daytona Beach, Fla.

RACE sponsors film to increase awareness
Andrew Yon

As most of us know, Davidson College has recently been engaged in a process of self-examination with the hope of discovering ways in which it might become more responsive to the needs of minorities at this institution. The Board of Trustees has approved a new policy statement and appropriated a great deal of money, thereby emphasizing the school’s commitment to promoting racial equity and justice. While these steps are vital in the slow process of eliminating Davidson’s — and all of society’s — unfortunate and inherent racism, the vast majority of the problem remains unsolved. Further progress depends on personal human interaction. We must learn as individuals how to sensitize ourselves to the needs of others, as well as to our own needs. We must learn to understand what it means to be black at Davidson College, or white, or a foreign student, or a woman at Davidson. Such sensitivity and understanding are not always inherent capabilities — they must be learned — especially for those of us who have grown up in rather, shall we say, homogeneous environments.

In an effort to provide the college with an important learning opportunity, the RACE Committee (Racial Attitudes Concerning Everyone) has organized a unique event for Wednesday, Feb. 5, 8 to 9:30 p.m., in the 900 Room. A thirty-minute film, “From Harlem to Harvard: A Story of Shattered Dreams,” will be shown, followed by a discussion led by Gary Mason, assistant dean of students. The film traces the actual experience of a Harlem youth at Harvard. From a brochure: “Combining cinema verite style footage with probing interviews, ‘From Harlem to Harvard’ shows how elitism, race, ideology, and personality interact when an individual is faced with constant pressure to compete and succeed, while being denied support from those around him. Made by four upperclassmen at Harvard,The film offers the audience an ‘insider’s view’ of one of the most famous and misunderstood myths in America.” Mr. Mason has previously conducted workshops with the film and will focus on helping each person present to develop his or her own personal awareness of the racial situation in higher education, particularly at Davidson. The film and discussion next Wednesday certainly will not—and are not intended to—dictate a specific strategy for eliminating institutional racism or its tragic effect in our community. The value of this program will be that it challenges us individually to do what we can—whatever we can—to make Davidson accessible to, and accepting of, people of all races, all nationalities, all economic backgrounds. “From Harlem to Harvard" will provide food for thought: it deals with the expectations and illusions of a young black man in a predominantly and traditionally white educational institution. An institution such as Davidson. Take advantage of this opportunity to learn something about yourself and your role as a responsible and caring member of the Davidson College community. Yon is a senior math major from Chelsea, Ala.

Clarifying WDAV's policies, priorities
John Clark

I appreciate the opportunity to respond to the editorial about WDAV (‘Slick and Suave”) in the Jan. 24 issue of The Davidsonian. My purpose is to clarify as positively as possible several misconceptions contained in the commentary. Before attempting that, I must commend reporter Keith Finch for the thorough job he did with the first-page article about the station. I believe the editorial attempts to raise an important question: what ought to be the role of students at WDAV? Unfortunately, the matter is camouflaged with frequent rhetorical diversions and misleading information.

First of all, I know of no formal or informal attempt by the college to project WDAV as “a classy, slick station with a haughty attitude.” In fact, the philosophy of the on-air presentation is to maximize the intimacy of the radio medium by being natural and conversational, that is, simply to be oneself on the air. Classical music in this country unfortunately is often presented too formally and stuffily, and WDAV is attempting to make it more accessible and fun. If, however, the editorial writer means that the broadcast of classical music itself is “slick and suave,” then what can one say? Is Beethoven slick?

Secondly, I am not aware of any evidence that justifies the writer's statement that “people are more impressed by a good and solid student-backed project than by a gilded and suave trustee-backed production.” I suppose if by “people” one means “the students at Davidson,” then it may make sense. If, however, one means the people living throughout WDAV's eight-county coverage, then I’m not so sure.

Thirdly, citing the information about the Towson State student station and the comments from Dr. Ed Palmer in 1978 may be helpful if they are true and relevant. Stating that the Towson station, which is “almost totally student run,” is frequently the number one station in Baltimore is not accurate. My investigation revealed that the station barely ever registers in the audience survey data there. Ed's 1978 praise of the work the students did in the 1970s, especially considering the limited resources, relates to their level of commitment and effort and not to the quality of the operation.

I know of no effort by the WDAV staff, the administration, or the trustees to eliminate student participation in the station operation. By participation, I include the opportunity of working with the community relations office, the music library, the remote recording crew as well as the announcing staff. A number of students over the years have performed distinguished work at WDAV, and a few have successfully pursued professional careers in the field. But WDAV was not established to serve as a teaching operation. Rather, it was charged to become a top-quality, professionally operated, primarily classical music service for the people living within the station's Charlotte-centered, eight-county coverage area. Furthermore, the public service requirements of the Federal Communications Commission relate to the general public in this area and are not confined to a single group on the college campus, whether administrators, faculty, staff, or students.

Quality and professional performance are the keys to the station’s charge and to the matter of student participation. Let's be honest, students or bankers or lawyers or doctors or plumbers are not broadcast professionals. And the difference is not that one group is slick and the other isn't. Davidson College is fortunate to have a talented and creative group of professionals at its station. I know personally that the staff enjoys working with those students who have the commitment and talent to meet the station's standards. But those standards must be met, and it is true that many do not meet them.

Significantly increasing student participation and control over WDAV operations would effectively alter what it is today. The real issue is what kind of station should WDAV be? So far, the mandate has been to have a top-quality, professionally operated, primarily classical music broadcast service for the people of this region. I believe WDAV has struggled to meet that mandate, and it has done so with both professionals and student help. Given the mandate, I believe the resulting balance has been both fair and positive.

Clark is WDAV Station Manager.