14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors  
David Williams, Associate Editor  
Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor  
Will Thomason, Business Manager  
Bill Bugg, Features Editor  
Heidi Hooker, News Editor  
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors  
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor  
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor  
Karen Bockus, Tony Griffin, Advertising Managers  
Will Mitchell, Dan Rikard, Circulation Manager  
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor  

**Recommendation**

The verdict is in. The Patterson Court Selection Study Committee has made its proposal and will now submit it to the Council on Campus and Religious Life for consideration. For those of you who filled out the survey distributed by the committee a few weeks ago, option number four was chosen (more or less). As it appeared on the survey, number four was a short set of statements which outlined a two-tiered system; each house could decide whether to be bid-distributing or self-selecting. As we understand it, this option received a plurality (not a majority) in the survey results.

The number four two-tiered system is highly feasible and realistic in its most basic form and was the best of the options presented in the survey. Kudos go to the committee for choosing this option. Praise is pointed in the direction of Dan Murrey et al. (the Committee) for also strengthening the Patterson Court Council. Holding all-court functions at regular intervals is a good idea: doing this will reduce antagonism between houses (especially fraternities). However, these gatherings may turn out to be a pool of sharks when house members vie for the attention of freshmen. Having the PCC be the governing body for the Court and the process is another good point of their recommendations. Students who are actively involved in the Court should oversee the Court.

Now for the criticism: not allowing freshmen to enter Patterson Court houses for the first seven weeks is ridiculous. The problems we have with this part of the recommendation are as follows:

1) Forbidding freshmen to even step foot in for such a long time is akin to dangling a carrot in front of a voracious rabbit. They are hungry to establish themselves amongst the houses and with this proposal, they will not be able to do so until a highly-intense three-week dry rush program.

2) The social life for the other three classes would be severely diminished. There could be no date functions on the court. Many upperclassmen have freshmen dates to these functions, and if no freshman is allowed to enter any house, then the upperclassmen will have to find upperclassmen dates. This will only serve to further segregate the classes. “Hold the functions elsewhere on campus,” some may reply. There are no appropriate facilities on campus, especially the Chambers Gallery. The Vail Commons requires that a meal be served. “Hold the functions off-campus.” This is expensive and promotes drunk-driving. “Get buses.” Again, this is too expensive. Homecoming will be non-existent. Open parties would also suffer from not enough new and too many familiar faces.

3) Non-social situations may intimidate freshmen who are interested in a house and having an all-court function once every two weeks as the Committee recommends is too seldom for the socially-minded freshmen. Perhaps a much shorter period when freshmen cannot enter a house is more appropriate. A period of three weeks will allow the halls to have mixers and is enough time for the freshmen to become educated as to the ways of the Court.

A highly intensive three-week dry rush program is in and of itself not such a bad idea, but as it stands now in the recommendation, it is the last three weeks of fall term. These three weeks many times determine a student’s grade in a class, and the pressure of “rush” will have a measurable effect on grades. However, given the upcoming rise in the legal drinking age, a dry rush may be necessary. It should not, however, be crammed into such a short period. Perhaps seven weeks is more conducive to member/rushee relations. Also, these rush-specific functions should be interspersed with open and “wet” events.

At its most basic level, the recommendation is not bad. However, the proposed calendar of events needs serious reconsideration. Although we realize that the committee had to please agreat deal of people, we feel that their proposal is not the best it could have been. The few (but major) flaws mentioned earlier may jeopardize the entire proposal and along with it the hard work of the committee.

RlaCeulfon VakE PAVI-SONIAN

To the Editors:

Some conflicting thoughts made me write this letter after returning from the Open Luncheon concerning next year’s drinking policy. All of us are familiar with its reasons and know that 21 will be the magic age. I will try not to sound like a MADD or SADD fanatic but like a concerned Davidson student. There are a few things that I would like to share with my fellow students. I am not perfect and do not consider this article a “holier-than-thou” message. I have occasionally acted irresponsibly but will not elaborate since my parents could read this.

I noticed two interesting points during this discussion: 1) the College administration is covering its --- very carefully in case anything illegal happens and 2) we (the students) will be expected to establish and maintain a responsible policy to protect ourselves from our drinking habits. No one can fault the College administration. Caring for occasionally irresponsible students should not blatantly conflict with the new law. However, the second point worries me — why should we expect Davidson students to maintain a responsible attitude towards this new law considering our past record? Willfully destructing a $40,000 sculpture is illegal, as is attacking and robbing a vending machine, pushing down lampposts, and using or peddling drugs. I am sure all of us could easily come up with a longer, costlier, and more detailed list showing the not-so-responsible behavior of Davidson students. Most of us (I dare no longer say all of us) are not criminals, yet we have tolerated and ignored such rotten actions from our friends. Nothing will change next fall, especially when we consider drinking alcohol such a benign thing and would never see it as an illegal act. For more than three-fourths of students, drinking will be illegal unless admission standards change drastically. How are we going to regulate ourselves? Personally, I doubt we will until something serious happens. Maybe my fraternity will be sued after one of its members injures someone after a party. Who will be liable? Do we expect our college to pay millions in settlements? Do we want jailed social chairmen, or skyrocketing insurance policies for Patterson Court houses? Maybe the Class of 1987’s gift will be an endowment fund for lawyers and court costs. Obviously, if we support a lame policy which will be a bunch of bull thrown together to look good and be forgotten at the first party, then we will bury our heads in the sand. A similar smokescreen has hovered over our Self Selection process. The campus police must enforce the law as part of their duty and code of honor. No one has asked the officers what they plan to do under the new law. Do we all hope they will close their eyes, as they have often done in the past? What happens if they don’t? If the students do not approve and enforce a decent policy then a group of adults will have to. At that point our screams about responsible behavior will strike deaf ears. So far, we have mostly regulated parties to keep the ABC men out and to let those that wanted to drink, drink. Our attitude needs to change, and those underage or over-intoxicated should not drink. I seriously doubt that we can regulate ourselves yet hope that I can be proved wrong by a student body which always stuck together when it came to breaking or bending drinking laws. Can we stick together to uphold such an unpopular step?

Olivier Van Dierdonck

Special Ops

To the Editors:

I am writing in response to Tim Brown's editorial (Davidsonian, April 11, 1986). Mr. Brown has shared with us his opinion regarding the efficiency of our Special Operations Forces. While he is entitled to his opinion, I question his qualifications. He says, “our secret forces need better training.” How does he know? Has Mr. Brown attended Special