8 Bleacher Seat

Opening day for baseball fans only

By MIKE ADAMS

Monday is Opening Day of the Major League baseball season. For many, this fact may be of only passing interest.
For the true fan, however, this is a day on par with Christmas, New Year's, and the first day of
summer vacation all rolled into one.

For the real baseball fans among us, myself included, this day signals an end to the dry speculation of winter.
We have spent hours debating the Mets’ and Yankees’ chances for the pennants. We have bemoaned the Braves’ abysmal season
and wondered how Chuck Tanner can turn things around. We have asked those gnawing questions: Can the Royals repeat their
miracle finish of 1985? How can Dwight Gooden get any better? Is this the year that Brad Komminsk is going
to remember how to play baseball?

Now is the time for some answers. We'll have records, statistics, and box scores to fuel our baseball talk. And
talk we will. From now until the end of October, we'll argue the merits of Don Mattingly against Eddie Murray;
we'll compare the strengths of the Dodgers and the Reds; we'll argue for the superiority of the National or American
League. And we'll have endless skeins of statistics — everything from batting averages to team standings — to offer in
support of our various opinions.

Every new baseball season holds many promises. “This could be the year,” we say time and time again. This could
be the year that the Braves — or the Angels, or the Mets, or the Cubs — finally win the
pennant. This could be the year that someone gets 400 strikeouts, or 65 home runs, or hits .400. This could
be the year that Steve Garvey loses his cool, or Dale Murphy swears, or George Steinbrenner shuts up.

What allows the great promise of each baseball season is the tradition that lies behind it. The heroes of previous
years are clearly remembered, and the accomplishments of today’s athletes are compared and judged by theirs. No slugger can escape
comparisons with Babe Ruth; no good pitcher can avoid being judged by such standards of greatness as Cy Young, Walter
Johnson, and Christy Matthewson.

Such comparisons are possible — and even inevitable — because baseball has remained essentially the same since the turn of
the century. Sure, there have been some changes. Blacks were not allowed in the Majors until 1947. Night baseball has
tended to cause lower batting averages. High salaries and drug scandals have almost become bywords of the game. But when
the players take the field in 1986, they will play the same game that was played in 1906, 1936, and
1966.

The key word here is game. Baseball is a game, and games are fun. It is fun to play and
it is fun to watch. Perhaps burgeoning salaries and rampant drug use have tended to take some of the fun
out of baseball, but there are still few finer ways to spend an afternoon or evening than sitting in a
ballpark grandstand, rooting for your hometown heroes against those cursed scoundrels on the other team. Who knows when you might
see someone make a catch like Willie Mays, pitch a game like Bob Gibson, or hit a tape measure home
run like Mickey Mantle.

These are the joys of a baseball season. These are why we are so excited about opening day.

Men’s tennis blanks Edinboro, record now 12-5

By SUSAN WILKINS

Spring’s here and a young man's fancy turns to love; love matches, that is. Davidson’s men’s tennis team won at
home Wednesday against Edinboro University 9-0, bringing their record to 12-5.

Sophomore Jim Thompson started off the Cats’ victory by winning his number one singles match 7-5, 6-1. Thompson, who has
been playing many three-set matches, raised his level of play after a tough first set, combining sweet net play with
consistent backhands to win. Playing in place of freshman Sebastian Koch at number six singles, junior Trip Caldwell was, in
his own words, “magnificent.” He won easily, overpowering his opponent 6-0, 6-0.

Following the examples set by Thompson and Hayes, Dallas (number two singles) won 6-3, 6-1; sophomore Bill Young (number three
singles) won 6-0, 6-1; Craig Hall, a senior, won at number four 6-4, 6-0; junior Michael Meyer won at number
five 6-2, 6-1; and in an exhibition match, freshman Will Willoughby won 6-2, 6-0.

Although Edinboro is not a strong team, their number one doubles team almost gave Davidson a surprise. Young and Dallas
looked sluggish in the first set, mishitting returns they would normally blow by their opponents, and the Edinboro team was
quick at the net, winning points offTough volleys. After losing the first set 5-7, Dallas and Young began to concentrate.
Young made some tough returns down the line in both the second and third sets, while Dallas hit shots down
the middle to beat Edinboro in the last two sets 6-3, 6-3. The other doubles matches were no contest for
Davidson; Thompson and Caldwell won 6-3, 6-0, followed by Hall and Meyer winning 6-2, 6-2. Wednesday's victory followed a home
loss to the University of South Carolina on Tuesday. The Wildcats did not play badly, but were out of their
league. USC, a perennially strong team, swept both the singles and doubles to win 9-0.

As a prelude to Wednesday's victory, the team beat Ohio University before Easter and Evansville on Monday. Both wins occurred
at home. The match against Ohio was played while most students were heading to the beach or home. Ohio and
Davidson were equally matched, but the Cats eked out a win 5-4. Davidson won four singles matches, winning at the
number one spot 6-3, 3-6, 6-2; at number two singles 6-3, 7-6; at number three singles 6-1, 6-2; and at
number six singles 6-0, 6-0. Davidson’s number three doubles team of Hall and Meyer won the match for Davidson with
a 7-5, 6-2 victory.

Unlike the Ohio match, the Evansville match was not a heart-stopper. Davidson won easily 8-1. Meyer and Hall both played
well, beating their opponents 6-4, 7-5 and 1-6, 6-0, 6-2, respectively. In doubles, the Wildcats won in spite of playing
without their number one team of Dallas and Young. Thompson and Caldwell took over the number one position with little
trouble. After a close first set, they dominated in the second to win 7-6, 6-1. Hall and Meyer moved up
to number two doubles and Koch and sophomore Carlos Ortega played at the number three spot. Hall and Meyer won
in three sets, 6-7, 6-1, 6-3, while Koch and Ortega won quickly 6-3, 6-1.

Davidson’s Southern Conference schedule starts at home Saturday at 1 p.m. against The Citadel. The Wildcats are a young team,
but should do well in the conference. Furman and U-TC will probably give the Cats problems — they both have
strong and experienced teams this year — but Davidson plays hard and has strength down the line; they will be
able to compete in the conference. After Saturday’s game against The Citadel, the Cats are at home on Monday, Tuesday,
and Wednesday, hosting UNCC, Wake Forest, and Appalachian State. All matches except the Wake Forest match start at 2 p.m.;
the Wake Forest match starts at 2:30 p.m.

---

Club rugby team captures UNC-Greensboro tournament

By EDWIN PAGE

The Davidson club rugby team is right in the midst of their spring season. Despite such handicaps as not having
a coach, limited finances, and makeshift goals, the team has performed extremely well so far this year. The team got
off to a 1-2 start with losses to Wake Forest and a team of Marines from Camp Lejeune and a
win over Guilford. They quickly turned things around, however, when they played a tournament at UNC-Greensboro.

In the first round, Davidson clobbered UNC-Chapel Hill 17-0. The second round game was a thriller as Davidson faced Guilford
for the second time. Guilford jumped out to a 9-0 lead and looked to put the game away, but early
in the second half, Davidson scored a try (like a touchdown in football) worth four points and a penalty kick
for three more. The score stayed 9-7 until the final minute and it looked as if Davidson's comeback bid would
fall short. With the clock running down, Davidson got a little help from overseas when Rusk Scholar Phil Holt made
a spectacular run and scored a try to give Davidson an 11-9 win.

In the finals, the team had a much easier time as they cruised to a 9-0 win over host UNC-G.
The win gave the team the B-Division title and moved their record to its present 4-2. Davidson's ruggers travel to
Wilmington this weekend for another six-team tournament. They have three remaining home games against Guilford, Campbell University, and Belmont Abbey.
The games will be played on April 19 and 26 and May 3 respectively and all will start at 1:30
p.m.

The team is run by senior co-captains Cole Gaither and Andy McRee who are responsible for running practices and all
other duties usually handled by a coach. Senior Dick Shea has been outstanding for the team and classmates Griff Elder,
Pat McMaster, and Ralph Steading anchor the scrum.
