Friday, May 9, 1986  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bleachers Seat 7

Year in sports good for Davidson  
By MIKE ADAMS

It certainly has been an exciting season for Davidson athletics. There have been several ups and downs, difficult times and fun times, some winners and some losers, but the year has definitely never lacked for excitement.

Fall was one of the difficult times. The Wildcat football team struggled to a 1-10 record, with their only victory coming on the road against Wofford. Opponents put a lot of scores like 35-10 on the Richardson Stadium scoreboard. Despite the lack of team success, there were some outstanding individual efforts. Seniors Lou Krempel and Tony Smith had excellent seasons at center and defensive back, respectively. Sophomore Aaron Edwards turned in one 97-yard rushing performance and junior Marcus Allen was so intimidating at defensive end that teams avoided plays to his side of the field.

The men’s soccer team alleviated some of the regret over the football losses as they again challenged for the Southern Conference title and fielded one of the strongest teams in the region. The highlight of the soccer season came when the Cats beat then 12th-ranked Duke.

In other fall sports, the men’s and women’s cross country teams had fair seasons, although the men were hampered by injuries and inexperience. The women’s field hockey team demonstrated that it is growing into a strong program.

The winter turned out to be a good time to be a Davidson fan. Both the men’s and women’s basketball teams had extremely successful seasons. The men’s basketball team capped an excellent regular season with a Southern Conference championship and an NCAA bid. The Cats had their winningest season, at 20-11, since the days of Lefty Driesell and Terry Holland. Senior Gerry Born, who hit the game-winner in the tournament final, was the team leader in rebounds. Sophomore Derek Rucker led the Cats in points, assists, and steals, while his backcourt mate junior Chris Heineman led in quotes in the Charlotte Observer.

The women’s basketball team had unparalleled success. The team that had won only one game in the previous two seasons finished this season with a 10-8 record. They concluded their season with a championship in the Meredith College Invitational tournament. The Lady's success was sparked by two newcomers. Freshman Lavetta Dawkins gave the Cats some inside scoring and rebounding, while junior transfer Jen Artman provided excellent outside shooting.

The spring remained a good time to watch Davidson sports. The men’s and women’s track teams had improved seasons highlighted by 10th place finishes in the Davidson Relays. The baseball team also had an excellent spring. The Cats have won more than 20 games this season and they qualified for the four-team Southern Conference tournament for the second year in a row. Like the soccer team, the baseball team notched a victory against a top-twenty opponent, beating 20th ranked North Carolina State. The baseball team’s success this season has followed the arm of junior Steve Condon and the bat of sophomore Alan Lewis. Condon has pitched his way to a 9-2 record, while Lewis has been bad news for opposing pitchers all season.

The men’s tennis team shut the door on an excellent season with a third place finish in the Southern Conference tournament. The men won more than twenty matches this year and proved themselves capable of challenging for the conference title next year. Davidson's individual champions in the tournament were sophomore Bill Young at number three singles and sophomore Jim Thompson and junior Trip Caldwell at number two doubles.

In perhaps the sorriest episode of the sports year, our number one ranked Division III women’s tennis team suddenly became our unranked Division I women’s tennis team. The ladies were a favorite to win the Division III national championship, but they did not even get invited to the Southern Conference tournament after the move up. The women’s season ended with a 12-9 record and a lot of understandable disappointment.

Despite the problems with the NCAA that resulted in such disappointment for our women athletes and despite the problems with our Southern Conference affiliation that have left our future in doubt, Davidson had a very successful athletic year. There were three twenty-game winners, two wins over top-twenty teams, and one conference champion.

Football move jeopardizes future of athletics  
By EDWIN PAGE

In all the uproar that has arisen over Davidson women’s athletics in the past few weeks, another equally, if not more important fact has slipped by relatively unnoticed. Lest anyone...Forget, next year is Davidson’s last year to play a Southern Conference football schedule, and unless things change, it will be our last in any sport. Football is set after next year, with the Colonial League ready and waiting, but for the rest of the sports, the future is very cloudy. Davidson has yet to find an alternative conference, nor have we been able to convince the SC to let us stay without playing football. In order to save the football team from future embarrassments at the hands of Furman and Western Carolina, Davidson has short-sightedly cast the rest of the athletic program into a limbo from which it might be very difficult to return.

Qualifying for the NCAA tournament in basketball was one of the most exciting things to happen to Davidson athletics in a long time. Unless we find a conference that will have us after next season, we can kiss any more trips to that party good-bye. NCAA bids are few and far between for independent schools these days, and since Davidson no longer commands the kind of attention that a successful independent like Notre Dame does, it would take something close to a 30-win season to even be considered, much less selected.

Basketball will not be the only sport affected if we are cast into the void of independence. Baseball, soccer, and both tennis teams would also lose the chance to participate in post-season play, both in the conference and possibly on the national level. This year marked a return to prominence for Davidson’s men’s sports. Three teams won 20 or more games, and we captured a conference championship in one of those. Tennis, basketball, and baseball are all very competitive in the SC, and yet, before new football coach Vic Gatto can even get his first recruiting class in the school, we get out. Recruiting would suffer tremendously in the wake of losing our conference affiliation. As it stands now, we can offer potential players the chance to compete for conference championships and automatic bids to the NCAA tournament. That carrot will no longer exist unless something happens within the next year.

Davidson’s academic requirements alone make recruiting difficult. Without a conference, getting top-quality athletes would be nigh impossible. Imagine, also, the task of scheduling a full season without the benefit of conference ties. That amounts to 16 games lopped off the basketball schedule and 18 off of the baseball schedule. Will we be able to fill that kind of gap with quality teams? My guess is no.

Last week's vote by the SC athletic directors to form a group to study the possibility of Davidson’s remaining in the conference is encouraging, but there are several things working against us. The SC now has nine teams, an awkward number for tournaments and such. Subtract Davidson and they have eight which, by contrast, is a nice round number. Davidson is also not one of the big money raisers in the conference. Our football crowds are tiny, and I suspect that our following at away games is even worse. Meanwhile, we collect equal shares of all conference revenues, even from football. Perhaps the athletic directors can work out some compromises that will make Davidson somewhat more attractive to the SC and will convince the conference to let Davidson stay. I certainly hope so, but Davidson can't afford to count on it. Putting all the eggs in one basket has already hurt Davidson in regard to women's tennis, and we cannot make the same mistake again. Alternatives must be pursued vigorously in case the SC does not change their mind.

The foul-up that cost the women’s tennis team a chance to win the Division III championship was very unfortunate, but Davidson trying to compete in Division I as an independent would be a much greater calamity. The great seasons we all enjoyed this year will be just distant memories without a conference to compete in. As we as students are preparing to wrap up our work for the year, athletic director Christopher Morris is facing the beginnings of a great challenge. Davidson has supposedly made a commitment to a strong Division I sports program, but we presently have a long way to go before attaining that goal. Women’s sports must be revamped and strengthened, and Davidson must find a conference affiliation. Without these changes, our “strong commitment to Division I athletics” will be nothing but empty words.

T.G.I.F. featuring BLUEGRASS and Informal Modeling from Dry Goods from 6-8 this Friday.