Woodward paints color of nature in exhibit
By KAT LEHMAN

For those of you who have visited the Gallery lately, you undoubtedly have been pleasantly surprised and enlightened in the world of color by Davidson graduate Kes Woodward. The exhibit runs concurrently with Woodward’s other exhibition “The Birch Portrait Series” which is being shown at Jerald Milberg Gallery in Charlotte.

Woodward’s paintings on paper are of birch and spruce trees. However, because of the techniques Woodward uses, each tree is unique in color, line, and shape. The way he applies the paint (texturing the painting) lends greatly to the abstract nature of his work. The first work, “Seattle Birch No. 5” (1985), like all of the works in this exhibit, is oil and paper. His use of negative space and color is striking. Woodward intends to show us nature fully, not merely as forms, but as color, line, and emotion. In “Seattle Birch No. 5” all of these elements are present.

The next portrait, “Three Trees,” is numbered I, II, III, designating the various stages of time. The first piece is portrayed during the day which gives the painting the aura of calm and mightiness. The second of the series depicts the early evening and results in a restful and peaceful atmosphere. Painting III, depicted at night, emphasizes the mystery surrounding the forest.

Some other notable pieces are “Birch Portrait No. 47” (1986), “Birch Portrait No. 44” (1986), “Two Trees II” (1986), “Two Trees III” (1986), and “Fairbank’s Spruces I, II, and III” (1986). “Birch Portrait No. 47” shows an intensity of color that makes the viewer think long and hard about exactly what these trees look like. The interaction of the trees creates a dialogue between them and the negative space. This creates an effect of intensity which causes the viewer's eyes to come full circle around the painting.

Another painting “Birch Portrait No. 44” also has this effect with its patches of dark grey balanced against lighter greys, areas, and pines. This also results in an intriguing intersection of shape and color. The “Fairbank’s Spruces” series are unlike his other paintings in subject matter and technique. They are not as interesting as his birch portraits because the birch portraits are so rich in color, texture, line, and shape that the spruce trees seemed flat in comparison. However, unlike the rest of his paintings, “Fairbank’s Spruces III” (1986) is effective in its refinement of color and variety.

The exhibit is one that is calm and reassuring rather than violent. Woodward's pieces are beautiful and they show us a rare side of life. The exhibit will be on display until April 18 in the Gallery.

---

New Prague Trio performs perfectly
By ANDY BALL

It seems that the most popular word used to describe The New Prague Trio is “perfect.” This is, after all, the word which pops up time and again in reviews from publications such as Switzerland’s La Liberte, (“The interpretation was so high that one could just say perfect”) and Cairo’s Journal d'Egypt (“A perfect chamber music group.”) Indeed, it was this trio’s very perfection of performance which gave it the opportunity to leave Czechoslovakia for its American debut this spring. As only the very best musicians of the Eastern bloc countries are allowed to tour in the West, Davidson was treated to a first-class performance when the Trio played last night in the 900 Room.

The New Prague Trio was founded in 1970 at the Prague Academy of Arts and has since won superlatives in competitions such as the 1976 International Piano Trio Competition in Belgrade and the Czech Interpreters Competition in 1971. In 1982 it was also presented with the annual prize of the Czech Association of Chamber Music.

Musicians Amost Strizek on piano, Jan Klika on violin, and Jan Zvolanek on violin cello performed flawless interpretations of compositions by Franz Joseph Haydn, Dmitri Shostakovich, and Antonin Dvorak. Each artist was an exceptionally talented musician and it was this individual talent which made The New Prague Trio so extremely entertaining. Violinist Klika carried the majority of the melodic lines (especially evident in Haydn's Trio No. 25 in G Major) while Zvolanek’s violin cello provided a solid foundation throughout the performance, softly rising to the fore. An excellent example of Zvolanek’s virtuosity came in the Andante section of Shostakovich’s Trio No. 2 in E Minor where he employed harmonics to expand the natural range of his instrument. Pianist Strizek displayed an extremely wide range of talents throughout all these selections, alternating between subtle backdrops and dramatic flourishes.Incredible leads to act as a perfect complement to the other two artists. Communication between the musicians was also superb, allowing for exact timing and rhythm. The New Prague Trio definitely gave one of the best Chamber Music Series performances of the year. In a word, “perfect.”

One interesting note: The three compositions performed Thursday night were not chosen randomly. In fact, the selection was tailor-made for a Western audience by the Czech government. Haydn's Trio is a variation on a Czechoslovakian folk song (aptly named Gypsy) and Shostakovich’s Trio (written in 1944) is a celebration of the proletariat class as well as an expression of the suffering at the hands of and victory over the Nazis in World War II.

Spring Frolics food - Gilio’s: Great pasta
By TREY JAMMES

What would Spring Frolics be without an outstanding dinner? Not much, and unfortunately, that often means a large bill. However, if you do not mind going without some of the ambiance of the more expensive restaurants, an excellent dinner can be enjoyed at a relatively low cost. For those looking for the night of a lifetime, I will also include a brief summary of some of the most expensive restaurants in Charlotte.

If you are looking for good food without having to pay for ambiance, check out A.W. Shucks or Gilio’s. The decor at A.W. Shucks features a rough interior with a peanut-shell-littered barroom floor. However, the floor is almost straight and most of the chair legs touch the floor. If the conversation is strained, don’t worry, a train is sure to zip by soon and drown it out anyway. Actually, the decor is perfectly suited for the food; it is hard to look dignified with crawdads hanging out of your mouth. The food, although slightly messy, is excellent. The shrimp creole is spicy and has big, fresh shrimp in it. If you are adventurous, then the steamed oysters are an excellent choice, and don’t say you hate them until you have tried them. A.W. Shucks is located on 6051 Old Pineville Road, 525-3738 is the number but reservations are not necessary. Shrimp creole costs $10.95 and a large bucket of oysters is $8.95.

Gilio’s could be mistaken for Quincy’s on the outside, however, once you have tasted the pasta you know you are in a great place. The pasta and sauces are made on the premises. These fresh ingredients are used to create dishes that are as good or better than those at more expensive restaurants. My favorites are the fettucine and lasagna. I have not tried the stromboli, but I have heard that its combination of cheese, meatballs, and tomato sauce is fantastic. Gilio’s has also recently started serving pizza which, if it follows the Gilio’s tradition, should be excellent. An added bonus is that all entrees are under $5.00. Of course, a bottle of wine or a few imported beers add to the cost, but it is still the best value in all of Charlotte. Gilio’s is located on 5135 Albemarle Road. Call 568-0000 for more information, but reservations are not necessary.

For those looking for a restaurant that is a little more traditional, try Clifford’s. This is the perfect elegant restaurant that will not break your budget. It has a varied continental menu that has something for everyone and the entrees range from $7 to $15. Their most popular dishes are a variety of styles of veal and steaks. Their specialty is Steak Au Poivre which your waiter will be able to describe better than I. Cap off your meal with some zebra pie, the best of their many fine desserts. Clifford’s is located on Carmel Road at Quail Hollow Road. Reservations are recommended, 541-0525.

Of course, there are some of you who are not looking for an inexpensive dinner but rather an evening to remember. This calls for a restaurant that produces a mild sense of euphoria. Slugs 30th Edition is one such place. It may be the altitude because the food is not the best in Charlotte, but it definitely is an unforgettable experience. Reflections at the Radisson Plaza Hotel is another restaurant with the perfect surroundings for you and your date. The food is excellent, albeit expensive, and the menu ranges from Northern Italian to Cajun. The Lamplighter is another romantic place to take your date. Located in a 1920's home on 1065 East Morehead Street, the excellent beef and seafood is complemented by quiet music. All of these restaurants require reservations.

There are many fine restaurants in Charlotte and this article just scratches the surface. However, it ought to give you some idea of the variety of restaurants from which to choose.

Next Week: Even more adventurous restaurants.