The Davidsonian
Wednesday, March 26, 1986

Applause for Fine Films
Khurram Malik

“If you try to be precise you are bound to be metaphorical” — Middleton Murry

Lately, during long innocent rambles on Saturday nights, I was gradually getting used to passing by Love without ever dropping in. Truth to tell, however (and strictly between us), I actually did enter once, chancing upon a solemn production (about which later, much later); positively delighted young ladies fairly purred with pleasure (to parody two great parodists — joyfully trap two species in my swooping net, so to speak) at its “happy” ending.

However, I want to talk about To Have and Have Not which was screened here a few weeks ago, on the eve of those bruiseblue days of blue books and black looks. It was a Fine Film Presentation. Poor FFC: a very great and revered pioneer published some severe and censorious remarks about the committee; I deplore his vigorously drubbing the gentle folks who run the show; I deplore the screamingly delightful sarcasm he lavished — with moving tenderness, I think — on his noble foes (the truth of his points merely serve to increase the degree of my emphatically unenvious deploration); I especially deplore his having deprived me of the princely pleasure of gleefully administering my own deadly little dance of salutary kicks. Perhaps a valorous defender of FFC is sorely needed; in any case, before I go on to discuss our film, let me caustically observe that To Have and Have Not was the first even tolerable — to put the matter mildly — film shown here since Fanny and Alexander, that overblown gothic-sentimental tale worshipped by a brood of bilious Bergmaniacs.

The film stars Bogart and Bacall and some may be tempted to automatically call it a “Bogie flick”, that abhorrently amorphous appellation adored by so-called film buffs. It is not a simple and wholesome “adventure yarn” and only ready-made minds can suppose it to be a ready-made studio product. What, the reader may well ask, is so special about this film? It is based on a famous novel and it was made by the Warner brothers. But, in point of fact, neither the Warner brothers (whenever they sauntered in to the set, Hawks would stalk off) nor Hemingway (on whose novel the film is nominally based) had more than titular authority. Even the script was freely improvised upon by Hawks and his co-workers during the actual shooting. So, what is so special about this heady concoction? Perhaps the magic wand Hawks is stirring it with.

It begins with a parody of the Casablanca beginning: a map shows the time-place of its story (waiting in the wings, impatient to be unfolded), but the bombastic voice that introduces Casablanca is dispensed with. Nobody knows where the people imprisoned in the celluloid windows of this film have come from, nor where they are going. Our hero, Humphrey Bogart operates a boat. With his sidekick Brennan and a client he gets aboard his boat and goes out to sea: the client wants to fish. This client is well fattened with funds (as well as folds of flab) and his fishing skills are appropriately dismal. Later on, we meet the Gestapo near Bogart’s hotel. We enter the hotel and lo, we behold Marcel Dalio, alias Frenchy, the same sweet fellow who squandered his great Rosenthal fortune, then ran a gambling table at an obscure bar somewhere in the northwestern rim of Africa, and finally ended up on our island. Well-traveled Dalio asks Bogart to help his Free French friends. Bogart declines: and with the swish of the wand, the “plot” is wound up and set to go.

However, something is amiss and this something appears in a prodigious flash of Hawksian cigarette-match-smoke motif. The smoke dissipates to reveal the smokey Bacall call and smokier Lauren Bacall. Bacall’s “slim” is no Ilsa and neither would she care to be one of Ilsa’s clique of cliched characters. Bacall is tough, flirtatious and an occasional thief, but she is capable of experiencing real love. Beware, reader, for this is no harlot-with-a-heart-and-halo-of-gold (those are always well stocked on “characters” supply shelves) that Chaplin and Ford, among others, served up with more or less adequate cogency. Our freshly fashioned mannequin has a heart of a fickle alloy: gold shares its possession with baser metals.

Bogart and Bacall, flint and steel, ignite the black-and-white screen with irrepressible friction and it is in the process of collecting the dallying and dispersing sparks — the lilac-hued one from the smoldering rip of a cigarette; the maroon one deep within the muddy depths of a loaded desk drawer; or that special pink one, the passionate pale-pink one, created when unlipsticked lips meet — that the film's mighty surge of overpowering poetry is to be found. Audiences lulled by the listless ease of finding the Godhead in Bergman or the psycho-social outcry in Altman-Scorcese will, no doubt, be disgruntled and complain that the retrieving of fabled and forgotten playthings from the fabric of a film is trivial at best and moreover has nothing to do with the stuff of Grand Art. I would argue further, but, apart from the futility of it, I must in all fairness confess that their dogged and relentless search for fairy-tale brands of “realism” and their devotional attitude toward elevated ideas (the Zeitgeist, left-over Humes slop, schools of blind fishthought) are the cause of no end of helpless mirth and amusement, and, frankly, I would not be deprived of this source of invigorating and lordly entertainment.

A few more points. During the Gestapo attack on the hotel, the director, in a seemingly reckless move, veers his contraption off the worn track, so that the film skids through ten years and infinite space, and for an instant the viewer is in Scarfaceville, circa 1930, watching a gang war replete with props, and the next instant the delightedViewer shuffles the irrational trip back to Martiniqueville, circa 1940, and, still safe in the same universe, he finds the client dead, Bogart penniless, and a new character in charge: a suave and self-parodic Gestapo chief, a bright basketball in a world of baseball bats. The flair of this episode is sheer genius. The finest thing in the film is what may be termed the Episode of the Bottle. For a few divine minutes, there are sallies and parries, opening and shutting of doors, molten glints of amorous ardor, reproaches and rebukes, and all the while the bottle is passed around in a fantastic flurry, changing hands and roofs: this bewitched bottle is a catalyst of sorts, and what sort. This magical bottle, a character in itself, belongs to yet another plane of irrational “reality” (it is only an envoy to our film’s fictive “reality”) and our dream-people, dream-living in their dream-world, are grotesquely recorded on its dark surface (just as they are recorded, through the prism of Hawks’ art, on Hawks’ trusty cameras). Beside the Battle of the Bottle, I could go on about Bacall’s ballad, Brennan's bumblebee, the chap who does not talk until it is too late, etc. Finally, the flaw in this gem. The “committed” ending is conventional and false, but we must blame bureaucracy and vulgar popular opinion for that. The film was made during World War II; that war may be over but this film is going to live forever with its forced ending. (I draw the reader’s attention to a parallel incident in connection with Tolstoy’s greatest masterpiece Anna Karenina, but as no one can be so appallingly ignorant of Russian literary history as not to know of it already, I need not go into details.) Be that as it may, To Have and Have Not is a masterpiece, a great American film, and the best film shown here this academic year; I would rather see it again than have to sit through the tedious pretensions of Amadeus or the elephantine banalities of Entre Nous, or some such dross. Before I lapse into silence and humbly await the screening of Lolita next month, let me tender my profuse thanks to the lonely and brave FFC, and let me hope that this is the beginning of a new and beautiful era. Malik is a sophomore from Davidson.

Vandalism brings embarrassment to students | Robert Bradford

This past weekend I returned to Watts dormitory from a Patterson Court party where I found, that for the third time this year, someone had knocked out the glass in the vending machine at the rear stairwell. Glass was everywhere and all the food was stolen. Initially, I was disgusted, but after speaking with the vending machine's custodian on Monday morning that disgust turned into deep embarrassment and anger. The custodian and the men with him were convinced that the person responsible for this act wasn't someone from “across the tracks,” but a Davidson student! What was even more disturbing to me was that they believed that there were witnesses to this destructive act who didn't care enough to restrain the guilty person or report his or her actions. What does this say about how outsiders intimately associated with the college view the Davidson student? What does this say about our respect for the Honor Code and Code of Responsibility?

Earlier this year numerous lamp posts were knocked over by one or more thrill seeker(s) costing the college thousands of dollars (our dollars!) to replace. To their chagrin, a number of these posts were knocked down for a second time. How primitive! To date, the lamp posts along the walk through the middle of Patterson Court have not been replaced. Frankly, I don't blame the administration for not replacing them. Can you? Looking around campus I have seen more than one lamp post light that is broken. Lights just don't shatter and unfortunately, I haven’t seen any flying elephants we might use as a scapegoat for their destruction. One of us has destroyed one or more of these lamp lights. Other examples of destruction, some accidental, but I suspect a fair number intentional, are known to each of us. The question is will we tolerate this assault on our campus? Do we as Davidson students care enough about our reputation to take a stand? Do we have the guts to let those around us know that we believe destruction to be inexcusable? Do we have enough pride in our college to report Code of Responsibility violations involving destruction even though we aren't bound to do so by the Code? I hope so.

It is not my intent in this article to condescendingly harangue the student body. I haven't interviewed enough people associated with the college to make the generalization that there is a crisis of confidence in the Davidson student. I certainly don’t mean to suggest that the Davidson student body is indifferent to acts of destruction though I wonder if they might be growing more tolerant of them. What I feel is essential, however, is that each of us realize and appreciate the fact that WE, the students, are the stewards of our own reputation. Even though we may not commit acts of destruction, we are just as guilty when we stand by apathetically and tolerate or fail to report destructive acts. I have tremendous faith in the Davidson student body and am certain that the vast majority share the same embarrassment and contempt I have for intentional destruction. It is my hope that each of us will think before we act. If we can’t restrain ourselves and do destroy something, I hope we have the character and respect for our fellow students to clean up the mess we make, pay for the damage, and make an apology to the appropriate individuals. It is imperative that we realize that what we do as individuals reflects upon the reputation of all of us. Bradford is a history major from Orlando, Florida.