**Features The Davidsonian Friday, April 25, 1986**

Moliere’s Tartuffe combines comedy and love

By ANDY BALL

Moliere’s Tartuffe, the Theater Department’s major spring production, is a light-hearted comedy of deceit, gullibility, and general tomfoolery, with a dose of romantic love thrown in for fun. The story skips lightly from scene to scene with enough twists and turns in the plot to keep things interesting for the play’s entire length. The several backdrops with their casually draped tapestries and long shadows would almost be spooky were it not for the comedic theme. And, oh yeah, the dialogue rhymes. It’s an interesting experience to listen to a play's conversations when every other line sounds like it’s straight from a Hallmark greeting card.

Basically, Tartuffe is a play about one man, Tartuffe, who fools another man, Orgon, into believing a false show of religious piety. Tartuffe takes extreme advantage of every bit of charity he is given, to the detriment of Orgon’s home and family. Although Tartuffe is a comedy, I sometimes found myself relating Tartuffe’s self-appointed saintliness to a few of today’s more prominent religious TV evangelists.

The character of Tartuffe is excellently played by Chris Lightbown. He becomes a real snake-in-the-grass not only with his acting ability but also with his stark costuming and gaunt make-up. Dan Michaelis, a veteran of Davidson productions, gives a superb performance as Orgon, the bumbling victim of Tartuffe’s cunning. Donna Peters, as the ever-wise servant Dorine, provides most of the laughs throughout the play. Jim Dillon also gives a shining performance as the clear-minded Cleante.

Impressive performances are also given by Noel Brewster as Elmire; Cameron Dougan and Catherine Norton as the lovers Valere and Marianne, respectively; John Black as the hot-headed Damis; and Jennifer Jones as the pious Madame Pernelle. The entire cast works well together, creating a lively and entertaining production.

Lolita ‘deflates any and every pretension’

By MARK CHEN

Lolita is a comedy without laughter. Which doesn’t mean it isn’t funny. Which doesn’t mean you'll feel great and happy when you leave the theater. Which doesn't mean you won't be given profound ideas over which to mull. Which doesn’t mean you'll have to discuss it at the next section meeting of Humes. Which doesn’t mean you won't enjoy the vicious satire, the unbridled cynicism, and general doubt as to the rationality of modern men and women.

Lolita is in black and white and is set in the great, modern, enlightened era of the 1950s. It is based on the novel of the same name by Vladimir Nabokov. Stanley Kubrick, the director of 2001 and A Clockwork Orange, directed this screen adaptation.

James Mason plays Humbert Humbert, a literate man of letters who has taken a position at a very liberal liberal arts college. But he must find a place to stay for the summer, so he goes to the home of Mrs. Dolores Hayes. She is quite willing to let a room at a very nominal fee. Dr. Humbert is doubtful about the lodgings until he spies a very nice attraction. This is Mrs. Hayes’ daughter Lolita, aged fifteen. She offers very interesting possibilities to this middle-aged but handsome man. Dr. Humbert quickly concludes his living arrangements.

What follows after that is about three or four different movies. Which movie you see depends on which view of Dr. Humbert you take. The first view is his perspective. He is a man of great culture who is far above the frivolities of life. He looks at life dispassionately, noting the absurd behavior of those around him in his journal. But then Lolita comes into his life. She is a vision of such innocence and beauty that Dr. Humbert gives his whole existence to the pursuit of her. All in all, Dr. Humbert is a man caught in the banality of existence, lost in the pursuit of love.

In the view of Dolores Hayes, played by Shelley Winters, Dr. Humbert is a wonderful man who is a godsend after seven years of lonely widowhood. In bed, he is “so good.” Which is not to say that Dolores Hayes has only the physical in mind, for she is the chairman of the Great Books committee of her women’s club. He is “so wonderful” and she will give anything to serve him and make him happy — until she finds out that she is the “cow” in his journal. Not only is he insulting, but he is a sneaky pervert going after . . . but no, it’s too horrible to say. Dolores Hayes is a woman who has been very ill-used by her lover and her daughter.

Sue Lyons plays the lovely nymph Lolita. She doesn’t have as many problems as Humbert or Dolores because she has many other things in her life she does to pacify herself. 1) There is her bubble gum. 2) She is happiest with a plate of French fries and a malt. 3) When in doubt, she falls asleep. 4) Her greatest fear in life is boredom. She can’t stand being bored. When bored, she runs away. The worst thing is that Humbert can be so boring. He reads Keats to her and won't let her see “filthy boys.” Her mom orders her around. They're both so boring.

Then there is the view of the artsy TV writer Clare Quilty, played by Peter Sellers. He is always on the lookout for new talent and finds it in Lolita. Once he sees her talent, he cannot let her languish in obscurity. So he goes chasing off in pursuit over most of the United States. He gets his chance eventually, for Lolita is a pretty willing victim. She makes for a good time for a while.

All these people meet and busily set out to...hoodwink, entrap, and sucker each other. They are so busy in these mind games that it becomes impossible to know who is fooling and who is fooled. A person could see Humbert as a dirty old man who corrupts an innocent child. Lolita gives some proof for that view, for she usually acts like a very bored child on a very long car trip. But then Lolita “just happens” to extend her leg in his face or look very innocently at Humbert. She gives off the most offhand yet potent sexuality.

And Fortner talks about life in Davidson
By NELLE MCCORKLE

Jim Fortner has lived on Walnut Street since 1947. He was born in a house across the street. His first job, as a seven-year-old in 1921, consisted of walking cows to and from a Concord Road pasture; his wages were twenty-five cents a week. Orphaned at age 14, Fortner said, “I lost my mother and two sisters in five weeks.” To support himself, Fortner said, “I have even picked cotton.” He has also worked as a dishwasher at L.J. Hannah's Cafe, now the site of Conder Insurance Company. He has lived continuously in Davidson except for four years spent in Marshville, North Carolina during World War II.

A favorite Fortner story concerns his meeting and subsequent marriage to Mrs. Fortner, then Madge Malcolm. Fortner delights in telling the story in his wife's presence. “The courtship lasted about a year and a half,” Fortner said, “and I was in second place when we began.” Fortner first saw his wife-to-be as she and another girl left a Methodist Youth Fellowship meeting. A friend walking down the street with Fortner introduced himself and Fortner to the two girls. Soon after, Fortner began to visit his future wife at her family’s home in Cornelius. “I was washing dishes for the cafe where I was getting my meals,” Fortner said. “She had to be in bed by 10. At 9:30, he’d [Mrs. Fortner’s father] hit his shoe on the floor and that was the signal for me to leave. I had to walk the mile and a half to the Malcolm house because I wouldn’t get off work ‘til 7:30.”

“Shortly after, she moved five miles out in the country... It really didn’t allow much time for visiting. Later on, I began to see that wasn’t going to work, so I began to talk her into marriage. Finally, I talked her into saying she would marry me, but she wouldn't ask him [her father], because she said he would never consent. We decided to elope, which we did. It was to be a secret, but she told her best friend, and it was no longer a secret.”

“A lot of our friends said it wouldn't last, and that was 53 years ago.” The Fortners now have seven grandchildren and one great-grandchild. On the Fortners' 50th anniversary, their family hosted a reception at the Davidson Methodist Church.

A graduate of Davidson High School, Fortner sent his three children to college. “No member of my family had ever finished high school, and I wanted to graduate,” he said of himself. “[We had to] moonlight to send our kids to school.” In order to do this, they managed Davidson’s movie theatre. “I can remember when the highlight of the weekend was the Saturday night movie in the old gymnasium, in which they only had one projection machine and no girls there...”

From 1933 until his retirement in 1979, Fortner worked at Davidson’s Carolina Asbestos Company, beginning as a laborer. “Thirteen years later, I was plant manager,” Fortner said. During these years, Fortner also belonged to the volunteer fire department. He and his wife chaperoned local teenagers at the Teen Canteen, now the college’s Carolina Inn. “The Davidson Methodist Church has honored me with every position you can have. I’ve been a Methodist for 62 years,” Fortner said. Now an adult Sunday school teacher, Fortner is past superintendent of the Sunday school and chairman of the Administrative Board. “If I’ve obtained any success, it’s because I’ve learned to get along with people,” Fortner said. “We've had a lot of setbacks, but the Lord always made a way.”

headed Damis; Beth Parker as the prudish (and whistle-toting) Mme. Pernelle; Wayne Magruder as M. Loyal; Richard Sheridan as the police officer; and Julia Cardwell as Flipote. All in all, the theatrical department has come up with an excellent cast and crew and a real winner of a show. Tartuffe is definitely worth your time and money these last days of Spring Term. Tartuffe is playing both this and next weekend.

she is ready, willing, and able. Lolita soon drives Humbert into a ridiculous obsession. The games go on until all roles get reversed and reversed again. But what is the object of this game? To say that love is the subject of this movie is absurd, for never has romance been such a sorry humbug. But sex is not the issue either. If it were, then everyone in the movie could settle things comfortably and without fuss. So why are these people making fools of themselves? The answer (if there is one) seems to be that all these people are driven by illusions. Love is a lie and sex is a mess. Sex would be easier if we treated it like eating or dating. But we keep messing it up with our illusions. Of course you can reject this idea and say that Nabokov is a cynic. Or you could just ignore the Big Idea and enjoy the movie as nasty satire. The movie is full of sly jokes that deflate any and every pretension. The acting is good, the story is good, and the camera work sets up some wonderful scenes. I’m not going to say more, so you’ll have to go see it yourself. It will be shown in Love Auditorium on Saturday.