Wednesday, March 26

Baseball 3-3 in conference after Furman series

By BOYD COGGINS

The Wildcats’ baseball team completed a successful week of play by winning two of three games over Furman last weekend.
They upped their conference record to 3-3 and their overall record to 9-4-1. For the week, the Cats were 4-3
as they won other games over The Citadel and Husson College.

The Cats got off to a shaky start in their first three conference games against The Citadel at Charleston, S.C.
They won the first game of a doubleheader on March 15th, 11-3, as they pounded out 11 hits, four of
which were home runs. However, the Cats dropped a heartbreaker in the second game when they lost by the score
of 1-0. The next day, Davidson lost in a slugfest, 15-8.

In the first game, sophomore Alan Lewis was the hero as he knocked in five runs with a three-run home
run and a two-run double. His five RBIs came in his first two at-bats as the Cats scored seven runs
in the first two innings. In the first inning, Davidson jumped to a 3-0 lead when Lewis hit his home
run after sophomore Bill Masse and senior Keith Helfant had walked. In the second inning, senior Tim Waters hit a
solo home run with one man out. Junior David Depaul and Masse followed with walks. Depaul scored when Helfant singled.
Lewis then brought home Masse and Helfant with his two-run double.

In the fifth inning, the Cats scored three more runs on a solo home run by junior David Turgeon to
lead off the inning and a two-run shot by Waters, his second of the game, which brought in sophomore Rob
Zimmerman, who had reached base on a single. At this point, Davidson had a commanding 10-3 lead. Turgeon scored the
Cats' last run in the sixth on an RBI double by Zimmerman.

In the second game of the doubleheader, the Cats could manage only five hits off pitcher Bill Montei. Junior Billy
Waitsman pitched a superb game as he gave up only one run on four hits. Citadel's winning run came across
the plate in the fifth inning. The Bulldogs’ Kevin Vickery, who had walked after one out, was sacrificed to second
by the next batter and scored when Ken Vickery ripped a solid hit to the outfield.

On the next day, The Citadel took advantage of seven Wildcat errors to defeat the Cats. The Bulldogs pounded out
10 runs in the seventh and eighth innings to overcome a 6-5 Davidson lead to win 15-8. Lewis and senior
Scott Weaver were the leading hitters for the Cats. Lewis had three hits including a double and two RBIs, and
Weaver hit a two-run home run in the first inning.

The Cats redeemed themselves in their next game against Husson College as they won 18-2. The Cats pounded out 20
hits for sophomore Dave Fitzgerald, who pitched six strong innings in his first appearance since joining the team after basketball
season. He struck out 13 batters and allowed only two hits as he pitched shutout ball to record his first
victory of the season. Freshman Jeff Loser completed the last three innings by allowing only two runs on two hits.
The Cats' leading hitter was Depaul, who went four for five with two doubles and two RBIs. Davidson also got
a three-run home run by Weaver in the first inning.

Last Saturday, the Cats continued conference play at home as they whipped Furman 15-0 in the first game of a
doubleheader. Junior pitcher Steve Condon raised his record to 5-0 by pitching a no-hitter. The only Paladin to reach base
was the first batter of the game, Jim Holloman, who reached on an error. Condon then retired 21 straight batters
as he struck out 10 and walked no one while lowering his ERA to 1.51.

The Cats scored seven runs in the first inning as they dominated Furman early. Masse scored the first run when
Lewis hit into a fielder’s choice. With two men out, Turgeon singled and scored when Weaver doubled to deep right
field. Weaver brought across the third run when the Furman shortstop booted a ball hit by junior catcher Dan Simonds.
The Cats continued their two-out rally when a double by Zimmerman plated both Simonds and sophomore Roy Vilardi, who reached
base on a walk. Depaul cappedthe seven-run outburst with a two-run home run. The Cats scored three more runs in
the fourth inning and four in the fifth inning to win going away. In the second game, Davidson’s bats went
silent as they lost 3-0. The Cats could manage only six hits with Simonds collecting half of them on a
double and two singles. Fitzgerald was the hard-luck loser. He pitched seven innings, struck out five batters, and allowed only
three runs, none of which were earned. He has a record for the season of 1-1 with a 0.00 ERA
in thirteen innings pitched.

In Sunday’s final game of the three-game series, the Cats mauled the Paladins 13-6. Waitsman raised his record to 2-1
on the year as he pitched a complete game for the Cats. He struck out four batters and lowered his
ERA to 2.53. At the plate, the Cats were led by Masse and Turgeon, who had three hits apiece. Lewis,
the team’s leading hitter at .458, contributed his third home run of the year to the winning cause. The Cats
broke the game open in the fourth inning when they scored nine runs on six hits. Simonds, who walked twice
in the inning, scored both times he reached base.

The bad news from the weekend series with Furman is that Helfant, the Cats' starting second baseman, suffered a broken
cheekbone when he was hit by a line drive during pre-game workouts. He is expected to be out of action
indefinitely. The Cats will sorely miss both his offense and defense until he returns to the lineup.

This Easter weekend, the Cats host a crucial three-game series with defending Southern Conference champion Western Carolina. The Catamounts will
bring good starting pitching and solid hitting. The Cats need to win this weekend in order to be in first
place at the midway point of the conference season.

Track teams strive to overcome small numbers
By MIKE ADAMS

The Davidson men’s and women’s track teams are fighting to build competitive programs. They are hampered by inexperience, injuries, and
a lack of personnel, but first-year coach Gary Andrew says they have improved through the indoor season and will continue
to do so during the outdoor season.

The women's track team is inhibited by a lack of performers. There are only 14 people on the team, and
they are unable to field participants in several events. In the season's first outdoor meet, the Lady Cats had no
one in the 100 meters, the four by 110-yard relay, the 5000 meters, the triple jump, the long jump, or
the high jump. Despite the holes in their lineup, the women managed a second-place finish out of four teams in
their first outdoor meet. Key performers for the Lady Cats are senior Caroline Kelly in the 800 and 1500 meters
and freshman Maureen Harris in the discus. Andrew says the women’s team does not have a lot of experience, but
he sees a lot of improvement in store as the season progresses.

The men’s track team is also very small, with only 20 members. They were unable to field performers in the
hammer and the steeplechase in their first meet. They came in last out of the four teams entered in that
meet. The men are probably strongest in the field events. The Cats have strongman Lou Krempel, a senior, putting the
shot and throwing the discus. Senior Robert McLain and exchange student Thomas Gebauer are also solid performers in the discus
event. Senior Jay Braun, Davidson's jack-of-all-trades, anchors the long jump and the pole vault. He has also participated in two
of the relay teams and the 200 meters. Key performers in the track events are Braun, sophomore Robert Sickles in
the 110-yard dash, and junior Emil Cekada in the 800 meters and the four by 440-yard relay. Andrew sees a
lot of potential in an inexperienced distance crew and expects them to be strong by the end of the season.

Only the men will compete in the Southern Conference outdoor meet. They scored only one point in the indoor meet,
but Andrew expects a much better performance in the outdoor meet. The teams have two remaining home meets. They will
be hosting a meet on Mar. 29 and the Davidson Relays the following Saturday.
