Features Stage and reality merge in workshops By BILL BUGG

It has been said that even the Theatre of the Absurd has meaning. What I mean is that in this absurd theatre of the world, even the most meaningful things are absurd — no — I mean even the most ridiculous and preposterous and apathetically absurd things profoundly illustrate the extremities of the human predicament. Perhaps it can be best said in the words of an expert (that is, Stoppard’s Moon): that even the theatre of the absurd can produce “shock waves — which unless I am much mistaken, will strip these comfortable people” (that is these fine people of the theatre of the world) “... these crustaceans in the rock pool of society... strip them of their shells and leave them exposed as the trembling raw meat which, at heart, is all of us.”

Well, perhaps I am quite mistaken. At least, the trichotomies of the forces of complex human nature would seem to indicate that nothing quite so serious could hold such an amalgamation of meaninglessness together as appears in Tom Stoppard’s The Real Inspector Hound. Davidson College Theatre Department’s Workshop III productions of Stoppard’s play and of Elaine May’s Not Enough Rope last night (also showing tonight at 7 p.m.) successfully employed the authors’ designs, allowing Stoppard and May humorously to attack those who might attach meaning to absurdity, and uncompromisingly to expose those who would search for raw meat in a candy store.

Tom Stoppard’s fascination with Hamlet’s play within a play (Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead) continues with The Real Inspector Hound. Moon (Forrest Williams) and Birdboot (Dan Michaelis), who together constitute the audience, discuss the larger meaning of a Hitchcock-styled suspense as it unfolds before their eyes. Precluded by Moon’s “I dream of Higgs” (whatever that means, or doesn’t mean), the play within the play begins in Muldoon Manor with a special police report over the radio: a man of a certain description is being sought. At that moment a man of that description (Simon, played by William Beckwith) walks in, and at that moment, the mystery and the absurd come together to stay.

A sort of soap-opera emerges: Simon runs into Felicity (Kristen Updegruff) who is flattered to see him, whereupon he says, “I love another.” Felicity’s reply (“I'll kill you for this, Simon Gascoyne!”) is overheard by the housemaid, Mrs. Drudge (Laura Bowen). Upon Felicity’s exit, Lady Muldoon, or Cynthia (Jillian Clayton), Simon’s real love, enters. Cynthia, whose husband has been presumed dead, nevertheless reacts harshly to Simon’s love: “Stop — can’t you see you’re making a fool of yourself!” Mrs. Drudge overhears as Simon replies: “I'll kill anyone who comes between us!” A suspicious, wheel-chaired man, with obviously fake moustache, Major Magnus (Ben Newland), roars into the scene, and the mystery crescendoes to its next stage: “The groundwork has been well and truly laid,” the spectator Birdboot exclaims, “and the author has taken the trouble to learn from the masters of the genre. He has created a real situation, and few will doubt his ability to resolve it with a startling denouement. Certainly that is what it so far lacks, but it has a beginning, a middle and I have no doubt it will prove to have an end,” which is certainly one thing it ends up lacking.

But Moon’s analysis (“I think we will find that within the austere framework of what is seen to be on one level a country-house weekend, and what a useful symbol that is, the author has given us — yes, I will go so far — he has given us the human condition”) proves to be as absurd as Stoppard’s play. For the mystery is not only devoid of any coherent order or plot, moral implications or commentary on human existence (despite Moon’s “I think we are entitled to ask — Where is God?”), but it is mixed with absurdities from the beginning (throughout the play a dead body lies on the stage) which build to a climax when the spectators Birdboot and Moon inadvertently enter the play.

Stoppard is effective because he mixes humor and absurdity with seriousness and meaningfulness to render the meaning absurd, to mock and jeer at the serious. Director Jennifer Poole was effective because she transformed a cast of stock characters into an amalgamation of preposterous yet humorous absurdity. The cast was effective because they held together a string of complex plot twists and turns without illuminating the complexities of human nature.

Elaine May’s Not Enough Rope turns a boarding house of eccentric occupants into a net of intertwined lives leading from nowhere into nowhere, from absurdity into absurdity. Edith (Noel Brewster), a playful, young woman with self-deprecatory humor, attempts to borrow rope from her just-moved-in neighbor, Claude (Lee Eichelberger), so she can hang herself. Claude, an apathetic, selfish man of the same age, sees nothing wrong with Edith’s endeavor, and lends her the twine she needs. Upon tying the noose about her neck and readying herself to kick a chair out from under her, to a recording of Judy Garland’s “I’m Biding My Time” (which ends, “And you won’t matter anymore”), Edith realizes she promised to herself that if she was given no rope from Claude, she would take it as a sign that she was not to commit suicide. Since Claude...gave her twine, not rope, she calls for help to get her down. In the meantime, an old woman (Ann Lambert) awakens to the sounds of Claude’s drums and wheels her chair to his door. The old woman hears Edith’s cries but can do nothing; Claude hears Edith’s cries and does not care; and in a humorous scene, the old woman nudges Claude with her cane until he stops playing his drums. While Edith continues to cry for help, Claude decides to move out so he can “practice” in peace and discovers that his twine, which he needs to crate his drums, is missing. The old woman complains of chest pains, pleads with someone to sit by her until she dies, and begins to wheel back to her room. On the surface, the three are absurd characters in an absurd rooming house. In reality, they are realistic characters in a real, but absurd, world. The desperate Edith, the apathetic Claude, and the quarrelsome old woman revolve about each other, the first needing love, the second purpose, the third life. None of the three can provide for the others’ needs, yet in a gruesome paradox, none of the three can avoid sending the others to their respective dismal, pre-destination. But despite the foreboding of death in the play, director Melinda Dennis interprets Not Enough Rope in a humorous light, utilizing a hilarious but sardonic bite to undermine what could have been serious philosophical questions. It thus changes whatever raw meat is trapped within its shells into absurdity. As Moon of The Real Inspector Hound asks of the play within the play, so we may ask of both Stoppard’s and May’s plays: “Does it... declare its affiliations? There are moments, and I would not begrudge it this, when the play, if we can call it that, and I think on balance we can, aligns itself uncompromisingly on the side of life. Je suis, it seems to be saying, ergo sum. But is that enough? I think we are entitled to ask. For what in fact is this play concerned with?” The crustaceans in the rock pool of society? The trembling raw meat of our hearts? No. Only the absurdity of the theatre of the world.

Jazz and poetry: A well-matched combination
By HUGH LEE

In its truest form, pure expression. For those of you who opted for post-game parties instead of intellectual enlightenment, you missed a Monday night Union Literary Arts Committee presentation of three creative art forms, which possessed a depth not often found. While many well-known works were read, the most gripping work was composed by a Davidson senior. The program, brainchild of English Professor Gill Holland, was a combination of poetry, jazz, and dance: three mediums which, although seemingly unrelated, share a common goal: self-expression. It was a representation of art without convention. It created an exchange of thoughts and emotions between performers and audience, between everyone involved, which left me feeling that no extra words or notes had, or need have, been said or played.

The poetry readings, coordinated by Martha Wilson, ranged from the bitter and contemplative to the satirical and carefree. While many well-known works were read (those of Shakespeare, Parker, Mall, Turgenev, etc.), the most gripping work was composed by a Davidson senior. “Flying Home,” by Jerry Lilly, depicts a man contemplating the crash of his airline flight. Through this contemplation, he gains an appreciation for the smaller things in life as well as life in general. Well-received poems were “Dancing on the Grave of a Son of a Bitch,” by Dorothy Parker, and “Sea Surf is Full of Clouds,” by Wallace G. Cleaver. The first, read by Lucy Everett, is a bitingly satirical celebration of the death of her husband, a dastardly man. The second, read by Paul Kosmas, is a very sensual poem which was truly brought to life through the background music of jazz.

A jazz trio, consisting of Jeffrey Brown (tenor saxophone), George Guise (piano), and Philip Dennis (congas), provided the appropriate accompaniment for the poetry. The background music the three musicians provided was taken for granted even though the effect they achieved is difficult to attain. (They must interpret the poetry as it is read and choose key and notes.) The spontaneous creativity of the trio added color to an otherwise black and white picture.

Aside from jazz and poetry, dance added to the variety of the program. Eight members of the Davidson Dance Troupe performed the Charleston with vivacity and enthusiasm. The dancers had obviously worked hard on both their steps and their costumes. They communicated the fun they were having to the audience very well. The creativity of the program struck a harmonious chord. In the words of junior Steve Mank, “I’m glad I could sit in on this jam session.”

For those interested in jazz, the Preservation Hall Jazz Band will play in the 900 Room tonight at 8 p.m. It is one of the best jazz combos in the world and is worth paying 10 times the $5 student admission to hear. Also, the entire Davidson Dance Troupe will give a performance of the complete Charleston in March.