18 — Friday, September 26, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cloudt’s View

US? UPSET? NAW! AS A MATTER OF FACT, WE'RE ALREADY SHARPENING THOSE STUDENT ALUMNI OFFICE RELATIONS YOU GUYS WERE TALKING ABOUT.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
John Gathings, Editor Emeritus
Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Jim Dillion, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Andy Ball, Features Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Tony Griffin, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Perimeter

Over the course of the last several weeks, Davidson College’s main architectural feature, Chambers Building, has undergone a change in infrastructure. In keeping with President Kuykendall’s long-range plan to establish Chambers as a domain of learning, many administrative offices have moved to perimeter houses, thereby allowing classrooms and faculty offices to return to the first floor of our beloved main building.

As with all changes, this alteration has both pros and cons. We applaud President Kuykendall’s plan to make Chambers a building for only academics. The additional classrooms and faculty office space will ease shortages in those areas. As Davidson’s centerpiece, Chambers should host the college’s main attraction: academics. Yet the administrators must be housed somewhere and unfortunately, that somewhere is in what were until last year perimeter houses for students. Despite warnings from the Residence Life Office that perimeter house living has many drawbacks (broken showers, for example), students have long considered living in a perimeter house a luxury. The competition among seniors to get perimeter housing is almost as fierce as that among sophomores to get a room on campus.

Although the Residence Life Office claims that there has been no net loss in the number of spaces for students, we are a little leery of the situation. Some doubles have become triples, and some singles have become doubles. The former singles now resemble sardine cans, and every person who has taken Sociology 101 knows that groups of three are the least stable group types.

What happens is that the existing rooms have to hold a greater number of students. If you will excuse the somewhat inappropriate analogy, it is somewhat like prison overcrowding. Removing perimeter housing once available to students is therefore akin to taking away halfway houses designed to prepare the criminal (in this case, student) for real society. The rooms are “overcrowded” and alternative (and beneficial) housing possibilities have been removed.

As Davidson gradually expands its faculty, student, and administrative bodies, the need for adequate housing and space becomes more pressing. The current situation, while addressing some needs, creates new challenges that must be carefully managed to maintain the quality of life and education at Davidson College.

Sailing

To the Editors:

The sailing program here at Davidson College hasn’t looked so promising in years. The sailing class is filled to capacity this fall, and the team hasn’t seen such interest in years. How come? Is the class filled because it’s the easiest PE credit around? After all, you don’t sweat, don’t have to get your hands dirty, and can work on your tan. Maybe the class is filled and the team in good shape because sailing is a lifetime sport that does not cater to athletes only.

What could be more of a lifetime sport than one you can continue till you’re ninety? I am one of those rare few, it seems, who have been involved in sailing for a long time. However, the team hasn’t come together in an organized effort to race, practice, or have a good time together. We had the boats, but the team became virtually defunct. This year the sailing team is practicing on Wednesdays and Fridays and plans to race in two regattas next month, in Charleston and in Clemson. In the meantime, there will be some racing classes for those who want to race but have not done so before. In the spring, Davidson hopes to host a regatta on Lake Norman for the Douglas Memorial trophy and plans to attend at least ten more regattas.

If you think you might want to be sailing in the spring and have no time now, let us know and we’ll keep you informed.As to that: there will be no big recruiting blitz in the spring, but we will contact everyone on our “list,” so get on the list. Call John Engel at -8865, or Sterling Martin in the athletic department to sign up.

It pains me to think that at forty I will not run as fast nor ski as well as I do now, no matter how much I practice. Old people I left back up in Connecticut love to get out on the water for fishing, sailing, (a cocktail party), or putting around on the motorboat.

The athletic department here at Davidson obviously sees a value in sailing and water sports. Otherwise, they wouldn't support a fleet of 420’s for the sailing team, a fleet of Scorpions for the class, a few powerboats to teach the classes, and the Ski-Nautique for the ski club and ski class. That's a rather significant investment for a school that just dropped women’s basketball and won't beef up the football program with scholarship athletes. Whether you agree with those decisions or not, I think they certainly reflect the attitude of this school toward what can be thought of as “the standard approach” to college athletics. Instead, Davidson has just renovated two of the 420-class boats this past summer and one fast the link meeting with new. New signs went up this week. New docks are being built. Another 420 will be fixed next summer.

Morals in a Davidsonian

To the Editors:

One very good lesson we must learn from Eastern religious traditions is the importance they place on the soul. They claim that we, in the West, have neglected our soul in favor of our intellects. The two must never be divorced. It is false to assume that we can advance solely through the nurturing of the intellect. We forget that the intellect, morally speaking, is baseless. A person with a dark soul and a vast intellect is a very dangerous person, for he is capable of justifying his bad intentions through cunning (cunning is one of the negative aspects of the intellect; it is selective logic — hence, the larger the variety the more convincing the selection).

I was at a soccer game a week ago where I, unfortunately, witnessed manifestations of the above contention. At one point in the game, one of Davidson’s players fell just...

Continued on page 19

Staff:
Laura Ballenger, Andrea Diedrich, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, Laura
Features Staff: Jay Barron, Mark Chen, Lee Eichelberger, Scott Goodwin, Chris Hargrove, Steve Mank.
Sports Staff: Emil Cekada, Boyd Coggins, Pam Harmann, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wilkins
Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Bill Hartman, Alex Hayden, Ken Jones, Kyong
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill.
Production Staff: Sarah Bayne, Beth Bryson, Kim Crabtree, Amelia Fox, Clisby Hall, Pete Mangone, Tom Moore, Kitti Robertson, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yarborough.
Compositors: Doug Kim, Ann Roddey

Address corrections to The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28636. Phone (704) 882-2000, ext. 148. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.