Friday, November 6, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Confidential

Honey’s sign at Fall Convocation: Evil corporate plot?

Courtesy of PAX

Alcohol use and abuse: What do you really know?

Alcohol use on campus is a fact. Let’s test your knowledge on the subject with a true-or-false quiz from the
people at Brown University:

1. Blacking out is common after drinking and is no reason for concern.
2. Liquor taken straight will affect you faster than liquor mixed with water.
3. Alcohol is a sexual stimulant.
4. The most abusive drinkers are men in their early 30s and women in their early 40s.
5. Taking cold showers, getting fresh air, and drinking milk or black coffee can be effective ways of sobering up.
6. Eating a substantial amount of food before drinking slows down the absorption of alcohol.
7. Women using birth control pills metabolize alcohol more slowly than women who don’t use them.
8. Responsible drinking can result in relaxation and enhanced social interaction.
9. After ingestion, it takes from 3 to 20 minutes for alcohol to permeate every body cell.
10. To prevent a hangover, one should sip one’s drink slowly, drink and eat at the same time, space drinks
over a period of time, and avoid exceeding one’s limit.

Answers:
1. False. Often one of the first signs of an alcohol problem is a blackout.
2. True. Straight liquor reaches the brain more quickly because it is absorbed into the bloodstream more readily than diluted
liquor.
3. False. The more you drink, the more your sexual capacity is reduced. Alcohol may stimulate your interest in sex,
but it will also interfere with your ability to perform.
4. False. The most abusive drinkers are men in their early 20s. Women tend to drink most heavily in their
early 20s.
5. False. None of these methods will sober you up. Only time will.
6. True. Food in the stomach slows the absorption of alcohol into the bloodstream.
7. True. Birth control pills can slow down the metabolism of alcohol.
8. True. Responsible drinking can lead to relaxation and better social interactions.
9. True. Alcohol can permeate every body cell within 3 to 20 minutes after ingestion.
10. True. Sipping drinks slowly, eating while drinking, spacing drinks, and knowing your limit can help prevent a hangover.

See CONFIDENTIAL, p. 10

A look at the human unconscious
By CAREY PICKARD

Art is a highly personal form of nonverbal communication in which visual images serve to conjure up emotions from within
the human soul. Because art is such an intensely personal medium, there is no single “right” way to view a
work of art. Herb Jackson, in his exhibition of Monotypes currently being shown in the Chambers Gallery, is offering the
students of Davidson an opportunity to explore emotions which sometimes are not dealt with on a daily basis at Davidson.

Jackson’s work is an attempt to appeal to the unconscious within us all. His work does not offer specific concrete
images, but rather it offers a chance for each viewer to find his own meanings within a particular work. Jackson’s
art is a search for individual meaning; his works are not merely decorative, for each work has an inner life
of its own.

While it is presumptuous to give a single factor or group of factors credit for the level of personal intensity
achieved in Jackson’s work, his choice of medium—the monotype—plays a great role in what he achieves. A monotype is made
by applying paint to a surface and transferring the image to paper through the use of pressure. The result is
unlike any other art form. It is more similar to drawing than painting for there is no real layering involved,
although a print can be run through a press more than once.

Spoof O’ the Week

Big Boy on campus: a new Davidson restaurant franchise?
By BILL SCOUTEN and CHIP SEIDEL

Satire still has a place in American society. The staff is happy to report that in response to last week’s
column, “Mysteries of the salad bar revealed,” the arrangement of the salad bar has seen a change. In order to
cut down on crouton and bacon-bit immersion in salad dressings, the two containers are now placed in the salad pit
itself. Since the change, the salad bar has seen a marked surge in cleanliness. One Commons worker commented on the
change saying, “It’s the best thing since diced onions; now hungry students have no trouble at all getting croutons or
bacon bits. There’s room for two hands under the plexiglass protector... more hand room means less mess.”

However, the Commons is again in the news... Has the Vail Commons become a restaurant franchise? It would seem so...
Friday morning, October twenty-third, as the sun was rising, frost on the ground, we were jolted by the sight of
Shoney’s Big Boy on the top of the commons. Amused, but still wary of another one of Mr. Pritchard’s entrepreneurial
gimmicks, we went on our way. Later we were informed that meal cards were no longer being accepted... “This is
Shoney’s!” the cashier said.

Threatened with the prospect of competing with the new Food Lion (oops! I mean the Union Cafe), the Davidson Food
Service feels it may be time to look toward a greater operation for the Herb more than once. ThisThe time
element does several things. First, it adds an element of spontaneity. Jackson does not have any preconceived ideas when he
begins a picture. What appears flows forth from his unconscious. The technique is more similar to drawing than painting, as
each individual stroke is important to the overall creation. This time element also adds a degree of tension to the
work. Because of the quick nature of the medium, and the great expense of using a press, there is little
time to meditate and ponder each piece. Each creation is an expression of a particular moment. The intensity involved in
releasing one’s soul on paper is a very draining process. Jackson goes through periods of intense agony and ecstasy during
the creation of a series such as the one in Chambers. This inward pain is often the catalyst which brings
a new dimension to his work. Although the viewer is not directly involved in the creation process, they are still
able to experience some sense of this natural high through interaction with the finished work. It is this final emotional
struggle that gives this art a life of its own. It only takes an open mind, not a discerning eye,
to appreciate what Jackson has created.

The show in Chambers was created at Winstone Press near Winston-Salem under the direction of Catherine Kuhn. Kuhn is a
master printer. She used a special type of paper made from Japanese rice paper and French rag paper fused together
in a process called “chine-collé.” Herb Jackson is a 1967 graduate of Davidson. He also attended the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill where he received his M.F.A. Since then, he has exhibited in virtually every major American city
along with many European cities. Jackson’s works appear in over eighty museum collections. The show in Chambers will continue through
Nov. 15.

Davidson campus. It is rumored that the Commons has been accepting bids from numerous fast food franchises nationwide. Idle gossip
around the campus suggests that some of the prospective franchises are the renowned Popeye’s Fried Chicken and (the Davidson student
favorite) What-a-Burger. Also under consideration is the Massachusetts-based Fong’s Manchu House of Pizza. Lately, however, it seems that all of
these franchises have fallen by the wayside. The new front-runner appears to be Shoney’s Big Boy. Just as the Stay-Puft
marshmallow man attacked NYC in Ghostbusters, the giant Big Boy could become the new Davidson College terror. Already, workmen have
been spotted attempting to install a Shoney’s sign on the Commons roof. Centered perfectly, the colors of the roof and
building seem to complement Big Boy’s checkered trousers. One student commented, “the combination is a wonderful blend of passionate reds
coupled with a mellow green, which results in an aesthetically pleasing arrangement.” The sign’s removal was mandated, however, due to
what is termed an alleged display of favoritism.

It has been brought to the attention of the staff that the supporters of the Shoney’s franchise would not stop
with an answer of “no!” Rather, they planned to sponsor a Big Boy rally in Love Auditorium at the time
of Fall Convocation. Following carefully-laid plans, the team of advocates would attack the student marshals, disband the platform party, and
unveil the Shoney’s sign which hung from the ceiling, covering the Sesquicentennial banner. They had hoped to mesmerize the audience
with a Shoney’s waitress parade and imported smells of Shoney’s cooking. However, the plan was discovered prior to the ceremony.
The Shoney’s sign was removed from the auditorium, and Convocation proceeded as planned.

Indeed, the Shoney’s buy-out is still in a preliminary phase, but it could occur as soon as Thanksgiving break. When
consulted about the possibility of Shoney’s in the place of the Commons, students generally responded favorably. However, several students were
tentative. Jon “Blackbird” Giles, famous student guitarist, responded, “I hate it! Shoney’s is a grease pit!” He also added that
Shoney’s would lack the variety that the Commons currently provides. David Spong(e) enthusiastically commented, “they have the best breakfast bar
anywhere...” however, Ellen Morrissey believes that “the food resembles and tastes like pre-chewed cardboard.” When asked about the impact that
the new franchise would have on the Davidson community, an anonymous student suggested that the new food service would not
be noticed. However, a statue would stand tall, a beacon to hungry Davidson men and women. “Shoney’s is good, man...
they’ve got the Big Boy.”

The Beat Farmers performed in the College Union last week. Photo by Glenn Fogle.
