Friday, May 8, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

WINDLEY HALL AWARD WINNERS 1987 for Freshmen Creative Writing

First Prize: KATHARINE T. ARMSTRONG, Richmond, VA.
Second Prize: WENDY DUNN, Sarasota, FL.

CHARLES LLOYD AWARD WINNERS 1987 for Essay Writing

SHERI REYNOLDS '89, Conway, SC.

87 FOR CREATIVE WRITING

THE LOVERS AND THE MOON

Some lovers, obscure lovers, sat in a lonely park on a secluded old bench made of marble where the moon
made love with this white stone until it grew hard and cold, yet beautiful and serene, so clear that it
reflected the moon off its surface. So when the obscure lovers sat in the lonely park on the secluded bench
made of marble, they knew they weren't alone. A large myth was looming all around, an universe with an equilibrium,
a neutral totality, a whole. The lovers were engaged. Some years later, they lived. They never spoke throughout their lives,
even as they loved each other. They were aware of the spherical orb that reflected the intense, queer radiance that
bound them together, that brought them to where they were now. Some years later, they had a child. It was
a full moon night just before its conception. There was a great tempest, the sky was overcast, obscured by clouds.
Amidst all this tempestuous clamour and cloudy diffusion, the lovers perceived a strange but familiar sight, an apparition that approached
them from the sky. A mirage they thought, an almost frighteningly familiar sight—a marble bench glowing in a milky luminescence.
Suddenly, the storm stopped; all was dead still, nothing moved, it was cold. On the same bench now appeared a
fresh green sapling, its roots emerging from the lifeless stone. A reversion of order—calm after a storm, life from an
inanimate womb. When this new voice screamed aloud amidst the still environment, it echoed and created an earth-shaking resonance. Its
force disengaged two leaves from a tree just above the bench which had been weakened in the recent storm. They
flew, glided, and fluttered downwards in this still atmosphere. The lovers, the father and mother of the child, died near
the marble-benched grave. There was a tombstone made of moonstone, and a tree above it. As a last offering, two
leaves, the moonstone ring, and an epitaph containing the lyrics of the whole song were placed.

Pen sdakadiher on her way here, and

Conds very heavily that night.

it never dPted; she was wet.

P hate sil Buddha statue kept on the table's edge.
like in a dream two days later, I saw it topple over and fall
like a feather it slowly glided down.

what happened to it I don’t know?
what pushed it over was not understood;
what I saw was—‘Nirvana’ was attained!

that was the end,
that was also the beginning.
that happened sometime while

the dead fly from the tea cup flew away,
the pencil lead broke, and
the alarm in the unwound clock rang.

I woke up suddenly with the ringing.
I had to sit for an examination, but
I thought I had woken up too early;

so I went off to sleep and dreamt,
so that when the time came, I wondered if it was
so, but then, I’d forgotten.

something had to be done,
something like flying to the moon,
something to be realised.

moon was high, and it was full
moon, but it disappeared as soon as it. ed. the
moon had a long night to go.

and I'd picked up the wrong pencil
and that too the broken one
and couldn’t write when I wanted to.

it occurred all too soon,
it was when the water boiled in the kettle, and
it was time to put in the tea-leaves.

but they had already turned green from brown,
but that wasn’t the problem.
but when you do not have tea early in the morning,

seeing things becomes difficult.
seeing the moon and cutting a slice of it, and then
seeing and visualising that section

makes things a lot clearer,
makes the tea strong and:
makes the egg more fertile.

the sun, the moon, and the earth,
the moon which couples the triplet, forms
the triad! — all allusions, metaphysics, truths inclusive.

SUDEEP SEN
