The Davidsonian ~~ Features Friday, October 16, 1987

Automobiles can be lots of fun, if Dad is paying for the damages

By BILL SCOUTEN

Did any of y’all read the “Living” section of Tuesday’s Charlotte Observer? No? It’s a good thing. I was really
bored with what should have been an article about an “unusual job” or “weird job stories.” Instead, I was introduced
to a rather dry, almost pointless article about raising chickens for a pharmacology professor’s research. How mundane. Who cares about
chickens anyway?! Come on, Alan Norwood, get a real column!

You want real excitement, real stupidity, or just plain real humor? Take a look at what Davidson College can offer...
our students never run out of it. Take, for instance, the girl that drove to The Pantry in Cornelius to
do some shopping and found her key stuck in the ignition. This is really dumb! “Oh well, I'll just shop
and leave the keys in the car,” she thought. After shopping, she returned to her car to find that the
keys were still lodged in the key slot... did she really think that the keys would miraculously become “unstuck” while
she shopped? Needless to say, the car remained in The Pantry’s parking lot overnight.

Is this not enough for you? We have more!! Why is it that automobiles always have something wrong with them?!
Do you remember the first time you got in a car and actually drove it? Most students seem to remember.
(I know, I remember.) In fact, many related stories of dismay to me and mused about their aftermath. Figs. It’s
really sort of funny to think that Davidson students boast of above-average SAT scores and high intelligence when, in the
car, many of us act like neanderthals. We're not talking about tame apes, either. No! I’m referring to the hard
core, atavistic student/driver with the “don’t pass me or I’ll show you who’s boss” attitude. The type of driver who
resides in the backwoods of Tennessee on Hickscut Road... sort of like Cary Murrey, who said “you know I don’t
pay a lot of attention while driving, but I can park a car, and I haven’t gotten a ticket yet!”

You know, the kind of driver who, when first learning to drive, backs out of a driveway taking two other
cars with him. Come on, I bet you were in the same boat! When you were parking the car, you
probably hit the accelerator instead of the brake and took the back half of the garage with you. Or what
about the one that passed (or was passing) another car, when the other car all of a sudden hung a
left? (By the way, the driver is ok — well, he’s at Davidson — but the mailbox he hit is
no more.) After $1600 damage and a sheepish grin, all that Dad can say (with gritted teeth) is: “it’s alright.”
Come on, who is he trying to fool? You know as well as I that he is hoppin’ mad. But,
as a father, he keeps it inside and writes the check out to the body shop with a shaking hand.
Parents are almost all alike in this respect.

But poor Helen Bell, a new driver, was given her Dad’s car to drive to school one day because it
looked like rain. Yes, it rained alright. And, when it rains, it pours! Helen switched on the windshield wipers, and
before long a high-pitched whine was heard which quickly became a really loud noise. Helen said that she had to
yell just to talk in the car. Her yell was nothing compared to her father’s when she arrived at home,
though. The rubber had worn off the metal windshield wipers that had, therefore, scratched the windshield. Her father was quite
irate from what I understand.

Now you're in college, though. You don’t have these “accident” problems anymore. You've moved up in the driving world... you
worry now about mechanical problems. And how frequently they occur!Ask Gagan Singh about her go-in with the good old automotive
engine. It must really be frustrating to be driving a friend to Charlotte (in search of garters?) when all of
a sudden the oil light blinks on. Oh, no! What now? (Personally, I would be showing a bit of concern.)
Gagan drove on, though, until she found an Amoco station. Smoke, smoke, and more smoke came billowing out from under
the car’s hood. How embarrassing! After two more stops, the prognosis: new radiator. Well, they did get to Eastland Mall
via a taxi, found the garters, and returned to the station to pick up Gagan’s car. Five hundred dollars later,
Gagan told me, with a smile, the car “works perfectly.”

Listen Bob, We're Getting Very Tired Of Your Constant Attention On The Court. Will You Quit It Now.” Dad must
have loved that!

Many college students just don’t have enough money to afford a really nice car. In other words, some of us
just have “bombs,” like the old station wagon that you and your friends converted into a large convertible for high
school homecoming. Yes, they get us around but the circuitry is crossed, the body is bent out of shape, or
the car just won’t start. Robert Austell’s VW Rabbit seems to fit this description perfectly — especially on first dates!
Picture this. Freshman year, Robert asks Susan Roberson to go with him to get donuts at Krispy Kreme in Charlotte.
(Real nice first date, Robert!) The date was fine until his car wouldn’t start. Oh, but things got worse! Attempting
to roll start the car, Robert ran into a truck and bent the right door all the way back. It
would not close. Fortunately, the car did start later, and both returned safely to Davidson. When asked to comment on
the alleged date, Robert said, “it [the car] never starts on first dates.”

You’ve really got to watch out for Robert’s car, though. This last summer his car was the cause of a
major highway backup. During five o’clock rush hour traffic on one of South Carolina’s “not so major” highways, Robert’s car
decided to stall out on a two-way bridge, compounding the traffic problem caused by an earlier wreck. Five police cars
and twenty minutes later, Robert got out of the car and kicked it. The next thing he knew, the car
was revving and ready to go. So, he left. If you'd like to see this (in)famous, puke-green car, I'll direct
you to Main Street in front of DCPC — it’s always there.

But once Davidson students master the skills of driving and have an able means of transportation, other forms of entertainment
on the street have to be found. I was informed by Tom Larson that there exists a rather challenging, sometimes
rewarding game known as “picking up a girl or a guy while at a stop light.” This game should be
played by people above the age of 16, though. The point of the game is to “pick up” a member
of the opposite sex within a time frame of thirty seconds. What’s the key? Tom, speaking from experience, suggests that
the surest way of picking up someone is to ask for their phone number. As if you don’t hear them,
repeat the number with one or two incorrect digits so that the target person can hear you. If the person
corrects you, then you’ve won the game — he/she wants you to call! What a challenge! Yandell Wood suggests that
you also invest in a “Mr. Microphone” to facilitate the hearing of your voice from the car. I don’t know
about you, but I think that I'll try to “pick up” someone this weekend.

“And, we'll have fun, fun, fun ’til Daddy takes the T-bird away...”

Dean Freppie’s Revenge
