Friday, January 9, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sports Page

Can Davidson basketball repeat?

By EDWIN PAGE

Repeating is not an easy task these days. Witness the floundering Louisville Cardinals and the already hibernating Chicago Bears if
you doubt this. Even the Boston Celtics, recently believed to be one of the finest teams to lace up sneakers,
have begun to show cracks.

With this in mind, the Davidson Wildcats' record of 5-6 does not look too bad. The Cats opened defense of
their Southern Conference tournament title Wednesday with a two-point loss at UT-C, a game which provided a good look into
exactly what the Cats have going for them and what they need at this juncture in the season.

Davidson’s returning four starters give the Cats instant credibility in the conference, but at this point in the season, all
four of them must perform well if the Cats are to beat a quality team. Junior guard Derek Rucker had
a spectacular game and seniors Chris Heineman and Ace Tanner provided solid support, but a rare off-day from junior forward
Jeff Himes hurt the Cats. Tanner, although playing well, was saddled with foul trouble, a condition Davidson simply cannot afford
yet in the season.

Right now there is a lot of weight being carried by these four players. Being asked to never have a
bad night is a difficult burden to bear, but with an inexperienced supporting cast, all of these guys must perform.

This is not to say Davidson has no talent after these four. The talent is there but the experience isn’t.
No one has yet to step up and take over the fifth starting position for good, although there are four
players who could potentially do so. The bench has had practically no game experience prior to this season, but by
the end of the year that will have changed. Juniors Todd Scott and Dean Keener should be making significant contributions
along with several others.

The UT-C game, although a loss, gives the Davidson faithful a reason to look forward to the rest of the
season. Even though the season is still young and many of the players who will be important to the Cats’
hopes come crunch time are just beginning to get their feet wet, the Cats took one of the tougher teams
in the conference to the wire in a hostile gym.

Right now the Cats need one or two more pieces to fall into place in order to contend, but the
Cats should go nowhere but up as more players get the experience they need. It’s a long season and that’s
good news for Davidson.

Our three-year and two-year scholarships won’t make college easier. Just easier to pay for.

Even if you didn't start college on a scholarship, you could finish on one. Army ROTC Scholarships pay for full
tuition and allowances for educational fees and textbooks. Along with up to $1,000 a year. Get all the facts. BE
ALL YOU CAN BE.

See Capt. David Strong Ext. 170 in the basement of Belk Dorm.
