Friday, October 2

Cinema Classic: Masculin, Feminin

All whoopie talk and no hooters

By MICHAEL DEAN and ANDY THOMPSON

This movie review has been rated PG-13 by the movie reviewers board and is not recommended for anyone with an
appreciation of fine films. Considering the family nature of The Davidsonian, we’ve taken the liberty of selectively editing this review
for socially inappropriate language. The following tear-off section is provided so that it can be removed so those who shouldn’t
be exposed to such language will remain in the dark. The following words were deemed inappropriate and are followed by
their italicized Davidson euphemism:
Breasts: HOOTERS
Sex: WHOOPIE

In reviewing a denoted “fine film” for The Davidsonian, one feels a certain pressure pushing you to say something good
about it just because it’s art. While the Davidsonian has managed to find such individuals in the past, they missed
this time. Don’t get us wrong, Masculin, Feminin did have some good points. Namely, it was shot in black and
white and had a gorgeous female lead. In reference to the former, both reviewers feel these are two colors we
just can’t seem to get enough of.

We have been informed by a certain expert on film (namely, Frank Lord, who probably should have written this review)
that this film is part of the French new wave, “an experiment with something new and different that was never
tried before.” Just so we are on the same wavelength, one could say the same thing about a car with
no wheels and probably assume the same amount of enjoyment.

This film is notably French in all aspects except for its lack of bare hooters. The male lead Paul and
his lounge-lizard attired sidekick Robert drink coffee, chain smoke, and invent a new and rather humorous way of getting a
peek at the hooters of the woman at the next table.

The film has two basic themes: politics and whoopie. Both are treated in scenes that let us observe the lives
of these frustrated and impassioned characters without the added hindrance of making any point whatsoever. The voyeur tactics employed in
this obviously low-budget feature give us such treats as numerous 10 to 15 minute dialogue sequences with no change in
the unassuming camera angle. Some people might call this art; we call it dull.

While the film does make some interesting points about France and the 1960s change in social attitudes, its bizarre incomprehensible
style makes it impossible to enjoy. Outside of such classic lines as “I like the way you wear your breasts,”
and a blatant and discussed alternate behavior research therapist on the screen every 10 minutes, and a woman in one
scene modeling a bra who bears a striking resemblance to an acquaintance of ours named Doris, the film leaves little
worth recommending.

Those of you who choose to attend, be it to practice your French or merely your ability to read subtitles,
are in for the most relaxing two hours of your lives — unless you stay awake. You have been warned.

Masculin, Feminin will be shown in Love Auditorium on Friday, October 2 and Saturday, October 3. Both showings are at
8 p.m.
