Friday, January 16, 1987

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Pornography, subliminal or not, degrades women

Sharon Spong

I have found it distressing this year to learn from several sources, including current FBI statistics, that an estimated one-third
of all women in our society will be raped in their lifetimes. This fact means fifty out of 150 of
our freshman women will probably have their lives shattered by being forced to have intercourse against their wills. This statistic
also implies that very few people reading this article will not be personally affected by rape. (Perhaps “distressing” is not
the word.) Only by changing society can these figures be reduced. But to achieve this change we must begin by
promoting awareness among the more sensitive members of society, such as the students of Davidson College. If we can recognize
attitudes which contribute to a higher incidence of rape, we can start to change those attitudes within ourselves and in
our “mini-universe” of Davidson.

In recent years, there has been an increasing awareness of pornography and its effects on our society. In my New
World Dictionary, pornography is defined as “writings, pictures, etc. intended primarily to arouse sexual desire.” But in modern America, this
word has come to represent a whole range of images, including bestiality, nudity, graphic sexual imagery, and especially violence against
women. We tend to think, “So what? Only freaks watch or do that kind of stuff!” The truth is that
we have become so accustomed to seeing and experiencing pornography and violence that we are hardly aware of its existence
or effects on us. We complain bitterly about pornography laws which take away our “right to free expression.”

Our society’s apathy toward pornography is apparent even on the comparatively enlightened campus of Davidson College. One example of pornography
which we tended to overlook was the poster advertising Sigma Phi Epsilon’s “Nuclear Meltdown” party last week. There was one
woman pictured on this poster, and a missile was drawn entering her skull, with the catchy phrase beside it: “Fry
your Brain!” The men pictured on the poster look frightened but do not appear to be suffering any violent attacks.
Obviously, the person who designed the poster was making a joke and not consciously intending harm to any woman. But
the subliminal message is still present in the subconscious of anyone who glanced at that poster: “IT IS OKAY TO
VIOLENTLY DESTROY A WOMAN'S BODY!!” In this particular picture, there is also the phallic image of the missile violently penetrating
the woman’s body. On one level, this is an eye-catching advertisement, but what is the individual’s subconscious doing with the
message it receives?

In Shakespeare’s “Othello,” the evil character Iago incites Othello’s anger by using words to paint pornographic images of Othello’s wife
being sexually dominated by another man. Othello responds to these images by violently murdering his innocent wife. Pornography elicits a
similar response in all of us by showing the domination of one being by another, usually of a woman by
one or more men. And a woman whose brain has been fried by a missile or drugs or “mushroom cloud
punch” is very easily dominated.

There is a tendency for women to feel helpless in the face of pornographic attitudes. The domination of women is
such an institutional part of our society that it seems useless to resist. Subtle messages like the one in the
fraternity poster give men cultural permission to rape and otherwise abuse women, and it tells women that they are wrong
to fight against it. Posters and tee shirts on which women are shown bound or in some other way submitting
to men are furthering this ideal of the strong male and the weak female who “wants” to be dominated. This
attitude reduces both men and women to beings who face overwhelming statistics as they try to express their humanity, or
have fun at a party. Let us become more aware together and reduce the potential for rape in the lives
of our mothers, sisters, friends, and ourselves.

To, ry Brannon’s point is inaccurate and inappropriate

John Engel and Julie Lehman

Last week The Davidsonian was graced with a reprint of Paula Brannon’s article which appeared in Mecklenburg Neighbors. The article
is a reaction to the poor behavior of Davidson’s fans at the Charlotte Coliseum for the UNCC game. As students
of Davidson who attended the game, we would like to point out that while the behavior of some students was
inappropriate, so was her article.

First, she writes she has seen “this trash throwing happen at many basketball games.” This is the first we have
heard of this scandal. Having been to all of our home games this season and last, we were very much
surprised by the behavior exhibited by a loud but small minority and consider it the exception rather than the rule
here at the College.

Second, we take exception to tagging Davidson students with names like “rude pigs” or “spoiled rich brats.” Ms. Brannon writes
that she can take the insult-trading in stride. That’s fine, although I hope she would refrain from publishing them in
the future. “Spoiled, rich brats” and “rude pigs,” although colorful and cutting, is the most sweeping generalization she could have
made about students representing forty states and twenty foreign countries, of whom two-thirds receive financial aid.

Third, the accusation that these actions stem from the fact that we are poor losers is entirely inaccurate. If we
were a school concerned only with winning at the expense of sportsmanship and scholarship, then we would soak every suffering
athletic program with money, buy some athletes, and achieve national headlines. Boston College gets the headlines for point-shaving scandals. At
least we’ve only been tagged “rude pigs.”losers we are not; our basketball team had been losing gracefully for years before
their recent success. Davidson is a highly-competitive-plus college filled with highly-competitive-plus students who vent their drive to succeed in everything
they touch. We are not surprised at the exuberance and enthusiasm this school shows for its basketball team and would
hardly expect an end to “our childish behavior” be effected by her recommendation of blackballing those fans. We are surprised
with the editorial staff of The Davidsonian who supported Ms. Brannon’s indictment in their editorial rather than seeing it for
what it was. Engel is a sophomore from New Canaan, CT. Lehman is a junior from Atlanta, GA.

Continued from page 9

I’d like to conclude with final words of Rudy’s essay: Now I’ll answer your question. You’ve been wondering all along.
Well I’ll tell you what has happened to Photosynthesis. People have ignored it for a long time because of all
the crap like this Iran Scandal that’s going on. But can’t you see what’s happening? Humanity sees Photosynthesis as a
process but not as a need. The Amazon Forests give us half our oxygen, yet every day we wipe out
5000 square acres. It’s “one of our lungs” and we're willfully killing it. Humans have come to approach the Nuclear
Winter theory with the same distrustful curiosity with which Cain’s wife — the gorilla — might approach a wind-up metal
toy that walks. The other day I saw an article entitled “US Conducts First Nuclear Winter Test.” The first sentence
says, “A helicopter spewed flaming gasoline on a brush-covered hillside in San Siman, California, igniting a 600-acre fire to test
whether atomic war may threaten the extinction of humans.” I swear I read that. You see where we’ve come? If
we bash those nuclear weapons into the side of the earth they would raise enough dust and dirt and cow
chips to block the sun and halt Photosynthesis. Only modern insects and some flowering plants will be left. Understand yet?
I thought you might. We’ve arrived again at the end of the Cretaceous Sub-era. The conditions are the same, except
we’re brighter now. Maybe it’s too late. Maybe I should just bury this essay in the ground in a metal
box, right here in Jordan. But NO! There must be a way out. To survive we must reconcile the forces
that have moved us so far. Democracy is beautiful. USE IT. You’d be proud to hear other people talk about
America. Everyone should lead. I’m not advocating revolution. I’m advocating the resurrection of Morality through Democracy, active and alive. So
Here! Cheers to Fun! Cheers to Love! Cheers to the great Peace Marchers who just walked across our beautiful Land!
Cheers to Peace! Cheers to Morality without Blame. Because that is what Morality is. Perhaps if we work at it,
we can walk out of this second Cretaceous Era unscathed. Photosynthesis intact. Because if all goes as planned, we may
as well ask ourselves, “Say, Selves. Wall of ice closer today?”

Rudy is a member of the Class of 1986 and is currently studying as a Watson Fellow in Jordan.

Submitted to The Davidsonian, many in the college community felt the need to respond with letters to the editors protesting
homosexuality in general and denouncing the existence of a support group for homosexuals at Davidson. This article has not been
written to advocate a particular viewpoint on homosexuality nor to initiate a battle of beliefs on the editorial page. Rather,
the purpose of this article is simply to make the Gay Support Group’s existence and something of its nature known
to interested students.

The Support Group has been founded on the assumption that homosexual students may have specific needs and concerns best addressed
in a confidential and private manner. The range of problems faced by homosexual students is broad and each person must
respond to and cope with his/her sexuality individually. However, homosexual students face certain common problems with which the Gay Support
Group may help. One problem encountered by homosexual students involves being unable to communicate freely with others about the issue
as it affects their lives. Homosexual feelings often incur guilt, self-doubt, anxiety, frustration, and re-examination of conventional norms and values.
Trying to discuss these struggles with even one’s closest friends may generate misunderstanding and mistrust. The Support Group offers homosexual
students a chance to discuss their sexuality and related concerns with another student or a group of students who share
similar experiences. Another problem lies in unfamiliarity with written material which can guide and inform them as they think and
make decisions. The Gay Support Group can give interested students access to psychological, religious, and other types of literature upon
request.

If you are interested in talking with other homosexual students in a one-on-one or in a group setting or if
you would just like more detailed information about the Gay Support Group please write to the address below. Do not
hesitate to contact us because you are afraid of exposing or embarrassing yourself. Confidentiality is assured to anyone who contacts
us.

Gay Support Group
P.O. Box 135
Davidson, N.C. 28036
