Friday, May 1, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cheap Seat Comments

The Designated Hitter is an unnecessary player

Baseball needs the DH. How else could old, fat, slow, poor fielding slobs like Greg Luzinski play for as long
as they do? Also, look at the strategy the DH creates. The manager must decide which old fatso might hit
one out today. He is not bothered with those silly decisions that have no right to be a part of
baseball, for example, the sacrifice bunt, the hit-and-run, the steal. Seriously, the DH is one of the worst things to
happen to baseball; it ranks up there with Astroturf and indoor stadiums. It simply ruins the game.

Now for a closer look at the DH and how it affects the game of baseball. The DH does have
two benefits:
1. It provides the fans with a chance to see their favorite heroes become old and incompetent.
2. It also brings an incredible increase in run production. Last year, games played with the DH averaged about one
run more than games in the National League — that’s right, a whole run more.

But even the benefits of the DH can be considered liabilities. It allows old players to hang around until the
fans stop cheering for them and start booing. Look at Reggie Jackson — he once received standing ovations from the
Angels’ fans, but they started booing him after he stopped hitting HR’s and started striking out once or twice a
game. His skills had slipped to an all-time low by the end of last season. There were probably a few
minor leaguers who didn’t get the chance they deserved just because Reggie still drew fans into the ballpark. Yes, he
did bring the fans in, didn’t he? They came to see a once proud man degrade himself as he swung
at nothing but air.

The 1987 season has started and Reggie is now playing for the Oakland A’s. It is not enough that he
led the team to two consecutive world championships in ’72 and ’73 (back then he played right field). The A’s
want to keep this old guy around as a DH and bring in fans with his household name. The A’s
do not need him on the team; there are probably several minor leaguers who could do the job better plus
play in the field, but the A’s management is abusing the DH rule to bring in fans. Essentially, the owners
are sacrificing better baseball for more fans. They do not realize that winning games will eventually attract more fans than
a 40-year-old freak show at bat.

Without the DH, the American League teams could not abuse the game so brutally, as in the case of Reggie
Jackson. In the National League, as soon as a player can’t field a position, he is a liability to the
team. The NL team cannot afford to keep a player who is one-dimensional, only a hitter. The result is that
more young, good talent surfaces in the NL than in the AL. There are still plenty of NL veterans who
are perennially top performers (Dale Murphy, Gary Carter, Mike Schmidt), but they are complete ball players compared to the one-dimensional,
veteran designated hitters in the AL. Take Don Baylor in the outfield against Dave Parker for example. Who would you
rather have on your team? The answer is obvious for NL clubs — Parker, the more complete player, is the
only choice. What a joke to see Baylor try and throw someone out at the plate from right field; the
man could not hose my grandmother.

So far I have mentioned how the DH rule compromises the quality of baseball by keeping older, less capable players
around after their prime. I have also said that this was a source of disgrace to both the game and
the players themselves. But these objections are not my only gripe against “that horrible rule.” The DH, I believe, takes
out all the strategy that makes baseball different, quietly exciting, and suspenseful. Scoring strategy in the American League is simple
— wait for the home run. The DH perpetuates this philosophy by removing the pitcher from the lineup. What would
be the eighth batter before the pitcher in the National League becomes the ninth. What would be the seventh batter
in the NL becomes the eighth, etc. In effect, every spot in the lineup improves and creates a powerful hitting
attack. The AL managers, impressed by the lineup, forget everything they ever knew about the hit-and-run, the steal, the sacrifice,
and the suicide squeeze. The waiting game begins — Who's gonna hit the HR’s next?

Not only do AL managers forget all they knew about offensive strategy, they forget how to deal with pitching. Facing
more powerful lineups, pitchers inevitably give up more runs in the AL. The AL managers realize this fact and let
teams pile up many runs against one pitcher before making a change. Their hope in staying with one pitcher is
that their own club will be able to pound the other team’s hurler as well. The result is that pitchers
are left in longer, throw more pitches in a year, and consequently wind up retired with arm trouble more often
than in the NL. This is exactly what manager Billy Martin did to Mike Norris of the A's a few
years back. Norris pitched complete games in almost every start he got; even when he was letting up five runs
a game or more. He pitched so many innings that his arm never recovered. Jack Morris and Dave Stieb may
be the next victims of the DH management style. Pitchers are abused in this fashion more often in the AL
than in the NL. The result is quite obvious — more good pitchers last longer in the National League. And
the American League is a revolving door for junkballers who are constantly hurting their arms.

Many ignorant fans claim, “But the DH provides more excitement because it enhances the offense.” My response to them is
that it does not “enhance” the offense, but detracts from it. I mentioned that AL managers wait for the home
run. The impact of the DH keeps teams from creating offense since they wait for offense to happen. In this
sense, AL baseball is passively offensive and NL baseball is actively offensive. The NL actively makes offense, for example, by
the sacrifice bunt — the creativity of the National League enhancesthe offense. In comparing all the possibilities that can take
place with the DH up or with the pitcher up in a sacrifice situation, many more things can happen with
the pitcher up. He could hit away and get a hit, he could bunt and perhaps beat it out, he
could bunt poorly and be forced to run the bases himself, he could be pinch hit for which would bring
a new pitcher and hitter into the game. On the other hand, the DH just swings away, never does anything
different or creative with the bat — “Ho.. Hum... I'm bored already.” The DH just swings for the fences as
usual; he’ll probably strike out or pop to third — “Yawn.” Maybe he’ll hit a homer, but that's not surprising;
he’s supposed to hit one. The DH knows nothing about the element of surprise or creative offense, he just does
the same ol’ thing. Bunting is not the only example — What about the hit-and-run, the stolen base, the suicide
squeeze, the double switch. These baseball strategies have almost been lost in the AL since the DH has been in
effect. Maybe the most obvious way to tell how the NL continues to use the strategy of baseball, and how
the AL has abandoned it, is to look at the number of players a typical game includes. A typical game
for an American League club includes ten or eleven players, whereas the National League teams typically get more players involved.
It is not unusual for an NL club to use every player on the bench in a game. Pinch hitters,
runners, the bullpen hurlers, defensive replacements are all used to the utmost in the NL, but ignored in the AL.
Look in the box scores and see for yourself how many players each league uses. Using more players allows for
more variety and more strange, interesting, exciting twists in the game — like when a defensive replacement makes an error
in the field allowing the other team to tie the score. Then he comes back to get the game-winning hit
in extra innings. Or how about the excitement involved with a pitcher helping his own cause with an unexpected, two
RBI rope into the gap. You DH fans bore me! You can take your Luzinskis and your Jacksons and your
Baylors. You can have your beer guzzling, pizza chomping, lazy swinging old guys. Give me the up and coming players
of the NL any day, the guys hungry to earn a spot, the good athletes, the guys that can do
it all — hit, field, and run.

Rorron looks at Davidson sports history

As my time at Davidson comes to an end, I’ve been thinking about the many events that stick out in
my mind from the last four years. Since a great deal of my time during this time has been spent
attending the various and sundry sporting events at Davidson, I felt now was an appropriate time to examine the best
and most influential events Davidson sports has to offer from the archives of the last four years. I present to
you the half dozen biggest sports stories witnessed by the Class of 1987.

1) Winning the Southern Conference Basketball Tournament (1986) — No surprise here. Gerry Born’s miracle shot against Tennessee-Chattanooga set off
a chain reaction of enthusiasm and excitement unmatched during my time at Davidson. Culminating in Davidson’s trip to the NCAA
tournament, the Southern Conference Tournament title breathed new life into what had been a sagging basketball program. Despite getting whipped
by Kentucky in the first round of the NCAA, Davidson fans had one week of daydreams full of “What if
we win the national championship?”

2) Women’s Tennis Team Winning Division III National Championship (1984) — Coach Caroline Brown’s squad grabbed the only national championship
in the history of the school by a one-point margin, an achievement that is unfortunately overlooked by many at Davidson
(many underclassmen may not even be aware of this achievement). The women’s tennis team came in second place nationally the
next year and would continue to be a national power were it not for Event Number Three.

3) Christopher B. “Kit” Morris Struggles With Just How Big a School Davidson Should Be (1985-7) — Under this all-encompassing
title I include such debacles as joining the Colonial League in football (at the cost of conference affiliation for all
other sports) and the foul-up that cost the women’s tennis team a shot at the national title in 1986. Although
this is clearly the most important event in the history of Davidson sports, I put it third on my list
due to the frustration this move causes me. While the football team needs a healthy alternative to the weekly humiliation
playing in the Southern Conference provided, I feel the sacrificing of a conference for all other sports ranks as among
the most short-sighted decisions I've had the misfortune of being aware of. Good luck in the upcoming years, Kit, I
think you’re going to need it.

4) Beating Duke in Soccer (1986) — All you seniors who went JYA probably caught some fine soccer in Europe,
but you missed Charlie Slagle’s band’s finest hour. Tony Cabrales scored the game’s only goal early in the first half.
Davidson then weathered a non-stop barrage that somehow failed to net Duke a single goal. This game sticks out not
only because the evil Blue Devils fell, but because of the tremendous feeling of tension caused by Duke’s constant offensive
pressure and the great relief the eventual victory brought to team and fans alike.

5) Davidson Baseball Team Sweeps Western Carolina To Win Division (1985) — Davidson had to win all three games of
a weekend series to win the division and managed to come out on top in three barnburners. Alan Lewis had
a bases-loaded base hit to secure one come-from-behind victory and Dave DePaul robbed Western of a home run with a
spectacular catch to help Steve Condon nail down the final game shutout.

6) Davidson Beats Marshall in Regular Season Game (1986) — This game served as a prelude to the eventual NCAA
bash, but was the finest game played in Johnston Gym in the last four years. Both teams converted on an
astronomically high percentage of their shots. Davidson broke open a close game at the end to send the student body
into a frenzy and the Thundering Herd home in peaceful defeat.

That concludes my list. I hope all the athletes had as much fun performing as I had spectating at these
events.
