Friday, May 8, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN 21

To sit or not to sit, that is the question
——— Peter Mangone ———

During the past week, the people of Davidson College and the community were given a rare opportunity to see and
hear two of the most famous speakers that have come to this campus in the past two years, Jeane Kirkpatrick
and Arkady Shevchenko. Yet, I was not impressed at all by the way either’s speech turned out. I am not
talking about the content of each person’s talk or how the members of the audience acted. Instead, I was extremely
angered with the decision to hold both of the events in the Chamber's Gallery.

For those of you who did not attend either of the events, let me inform you of the seating arrangements.
Those people who arrived early sat in one of the few hundred seats on the floor of the Gallery (these,
of course, were all filled by the start of the speech). On the other hand, those who arrived five minutes
beforehand or on time had the option to either sit on the floor or stand during the entire talk (some
people even had to stand in the hallway outside).

I would have no qualms with this situation if the Gallery was the only place either of these events could
have been held, yet I do not understand why Love Auditorium was not used. If this had been the case,
then all those who chose to attend would have had an equal opportunity to listen to and learn from the
remarks of both speakers. What are the reasons behind this insane decision to pack as many people as possible into
the gallery and thereby severely diminish the overall quality and educational value of these speakers? In my opinion, there are
only a few explanations for this, and only one adequately justifies the shortsighted and ridiculous nature of this decision.

1. Love Auditorium is a health hazard and was condemned by the authorities. Although I must admit this is an
adequate reason for the decision that was made, I think it is highly unlikely such a situation exists.

2. Love Auditorium was being used during each of the events. I am not sure whether it was occupied last
Friday, but I do know that Wednesday night during Shevchenko’s speech I went up to the auditorium and found it
empty and dark. If somebody was using it, they were doing so in a very quiet and invisible way.

3. Those making the decision did not foresee such a great turnout of people. I can accept this to support
the decision concerning where Jeane Kirkpatrick would speak because of the many students heading off in the early afternoon (if
not late morning) to soak up some sun and fun at the beach. Yet Arkady Shevchenko’s speech was held on
a Wednesday night at 8:00, not exactly the prime time for partying and definitely not the night before many papers
are due (most are due either this Friday or next week). This fact, along with an advertising campaign that lasted
two weeks (one of the largest I’ve ever seen for a speaker at Davidson), clearly should have indicated the good
possibility for a large crowd. Fortunately and unfortunately, this is exactly what happened on Wednesday night. Although it was nice
to see many people come to hear Shevchenko speak, at least 100 had to sit on the floor or stand
in the doorway and hall just to see him (let alone hear him adequately enough to understand his message).

4. Those making the decision wanted to ensure a packed house for each speaker. I can somewhat understand their decision,
but I believe it was misguided.

Continued from page 20

Laundry provides $270.00 ($340.00 in ’87) worth of service per student per year, this unfair assessment should be removed or
made optional.

Sincerely,
Ruth M. Tatsapaugh

Reconsider
Dear Dean Williams:
Michael Jarmon ’88
English Knowles ’90
Frank Lord ’89

Laundry
Dear Editor:
I object strenuously to the exorbitant fee that subsidizes the Davidson College Laundry. This levy is an anachronism, reverting to
the days when Davidson students did not have access to washing machines in their dorms or laundromats. It adds to
the already high cost of a Davidson education.

For nearly three years my daughter has done her own laundry because of the D.C. Laundry’s shrinking her clothes. This
has been a problem with other students’ garments also. A freshman’s mother had to replace all his jeans at Christmas
time for this reason. Other students have had this problem. It is not an isolated incident.

Last Saturday afternoon I learned of your decision to deny tenure to Dr. John Engell. I understand that before making
this decision you carefully considered evaluations of Dr. Engell from Davidson students and faculty members and from many other individuals
who are familiar with his work; I know that you did not make this decision lightly. Nevertheless, I must protest
your action.

In a recent conversation with me, Dr. Kuykendall outlined three aspects of a professor’s performance which you consider when making
a tenure decision: teaching ability, community service, and publications. I have not read any of Dr. Engell’s creative or critical
work, nor am I familiar with his role in the Davidson community outside of the College; I know him as
a teacher and role model for students. In these capacities, I find him virtually unsurpassed among his fellow members of
the English department.be glad to pay the necessary quarters to operate a dorm wash machine. During the past three months,
my daughter has used those machines six times. She has taken nothing to the D.C. Laundry. At my neighborhood laundry,
this would cost $6.00-$9.00, depending on drying time. At even $3.00 per week times a maximum of 36 weeks in
the college year, the cost would be $108.00, far less than the $270.00 now charged and the $340.00 to be
levied next school year. By being forced to pay the D.C. Laundry, we parents are subsidizing an inferior service which
costs far too much and are prevented from using more reasonably priced and better quality laundries. To add insult to
injury, the cost of this “service” is increasing. If we must pay for this laundry, it should replace all clothes
that it renders unfit for the owner's wear. Unless it can be shown that the D.C. department and among Davidson
professors in general. I studied 19th Century American fiction under Dr. Engell during the fall of my junior year. This
class, along with Dr. Nelson’s English 104, convinced me to declare my major in English. Dr. Engell showed me how
literature could teach me truths not only about life but also about myself. He taught me how literature integrates with
life and compelled me to welcome it as an important guiding force. Each day in class, his excitement about literature
and about living a literary life filled the room. He treated each person in the class not only as a
student but also as a resource, as someone from whom he could learn. He listened attentively to each student’s comments
or questions and then expanded on his or her ideas to reach incredible new insights. He wasn’t merely using students’
comments to lead into a discussion of old ideas; his creative mind was combining and comparing and connecting ideas in
new ways right before our eyes, and the results as well as the process were astounding to witness. I am
a senior English major, and I also participated in Senior Colloquium (English 495) with Dr. Engell. Once again, his creativity
and knowledge in his field dazzled me. His caring and perceptive help outside of class also led me to expect
even more of myself as a student and critic of literature and showed me how to begin fulfilling those expectations.
His good judgment and organizational skills made the course much more comprehensive than it was last year and yet provided
the depth crucial to making the study meaningful. I sincerely hope that you will reconsider your decision concerning Dr. Engell.
Respectfully yours, Frances Frame Senior English Major

Advice

To the Editor: Or rather, to the Class of 1987, Davidson College: From one of the centers (one of the
centers?) of the Universe, Jerusalem, I send semi-anonymous, author-unimportant congratulations on your imminent, perhaps ominous, graduation. I have one verb
of advice: Travel. And, as befits such occasion, an apt quote. It’s from a fine piece of American writing, a
story of departure, of the flight into the unknown, and a return to the warmth of home. It’s a story
which admits that departing is sad and that afterward things are never quite the same. But it also says that
departures aren’t goodbyes, that things can still be good, even if they can’t be the same. As the Lion from
the story asks, Ain’t it the truth, Ain’t it the truth? The quote is a little more fun than all
that, though it deserves some thought. It’s the just discovered Wizard of Oz, to the wistful Tinman: “Back where I
come from, there are great thinkers who think great thoughts. They haven’t any more brains than you have, but they
do have one thing you haven’t got... a diploma.” Have a sunny graduation and enjoy the hugs. To life! Sara
Timmy Twab Ruby
