Friday, May 1, 1987  
THE DAVIDSONIAN  

Extreme Prejudice serves up old spaghetti Western  
By BURT PARKS  

Extreme Prejudice  

What has Louis L’Amour got that the scriptwriter for Extreme Prejudice hasn’t? Talent, for one thing. Though the scriptwriter attempts to bring the romance of the Texas Ranger to the big screen in blatant imitation of L’Amour, he uses so many tired clichés that even ol’ Louis would groan. The writer, like a revelation, must have theorized that reworking old clichés with new faces adds a hitherto unexplored dimension for fans of Western movies. The audience will surely remember every scene from somewhere else. Perhaps the producers thought that the allusions and associations with those other films and books would raise this movie to their level, maybe as the pinnacle of the cliché pile.  

The Texas Rangers of modern times have changed their line of work somewhat since the time when they trailed gunslingers. Now, having traded their palominos for Ford Broncos, they prevent Mexicans from crossing the border and shovel against the tide of drug trafficking. But they still behave as the Texas Rangers of yore. They toss shotguns to their partners when the need arises. When their woman leaves them, or when their partner dies in a shootout, they hold a square countenance and walk stoically away. They uphold the law at any cost, including friendship. Their actions reveal what words, like droppings from the branch-hanging antelope, cannot. When words must come out, they come few, terse, and mean. A person can’t just sit and drink with a Ranger because they are “particular ‘bout who I drink with.” Some subjects remain of the heart rather than the head. Characters who try to analyze have no sympathy whatever from Rangers.  

The other group who plays a role in this film, the military, espouses a sense of instant justice and fair play, much as the Texas lawmen do. They realize that to capture criminals one must sometimes act like criminals. They work undercover beyond the law, with its Miranda warnings and rights of the accused, to pass sentence on known criminals. Only their work rewards them, and they perform it with inspiration. Yet only the Texas Ranger, standing tall in his boots and Stetson hat, resists the lust for power and lucre to which the others succumb. Right up to the final Mexican standoff he remains loyal to his country and true to himself, a silent hero slowly sinking into the sunset. Nick Nolte, Powers Boothe (HBO’s Philip Marlowe), and Rip Torn star.  

By MICHELE MILLER  

A playwright’s fantasy is to have his or her play performed on Broadway or in a theatre on a nearby street “off-Broadway.” Freshman Molly Bass has achieved this stature with her play, The Teen Age, and now she brings her award-winning play to Davidson. Written when Bass was 16, the play revolves around the teenage romance and frustration. Starring Amy Bradford, Mary Trae Freed, Pete Halverstadt, John Holland, Lisa Howe, Ismat Husain, Sarah Johnson, and Lowell Keller, the play is directed by sophomore Margaret Hancock. Performances are scheduled for May 4, 5 at 8 p.m. in the 900 Room. Admission is free. The play is sponsored by the Cultural Events Committee of the Union.  

—FIRST UNION—  

Mon-Thurs. 9-5  
Fri. 9-6  
Main St. Davidson  

CSN  

“Let us be your connection to great Pizza!”  

Delivering to Davidson College- FREE! After 9 pm SPECIAL  

Thursday 892-9046  

20 in. with 3 toppings— $6.25  
16 in. with 3 toppings— $7.75  

Mon. - Thurs. 11:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.  
Fri. and Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.  
Sunday 4:30 p.m. - 11:00 p.m.  

OFF any order of 3 or more large PIZZAS  

—Foreign affairs from page 1—  

economically, politically, and militarily. But we ought to have an open mind, and when we see some of these things such as we are...Just seeing here in the initiative with respect to intermediate-range weapons, we ought to carefully and cautiously move forward. In a cautious way, we ought to watch and when we see them taking steps towards us, we ought to be prepared to take a step towards them.

On the proposed U.S.-Soviet agreement to eliminate medium-range nuclear missiles from Europe:
I believe that we will make an agreement with the Soviets on intermediate-range missiles. I think that as a result of the discussions which were recently held when Secretary of State George Shultz was in the Soviet Union, in principle, we have reached sufficient agreement to indicate that we have a basis for an agreement. The problem now is going to be to work out the details between now and then. I, myself, am of the belief that we will work those out. And I think this will be a very good thing for us and the world community.

On the U.S.-Japanese trade imbalance:
The basic problem on the trade deficit is that neither side, neither us nor the Japanese, has been willing to take the steps necessary to move us forward. By that, I mean on the United States side, we are going to have to do something to really address our budget deficit because that affects in a very, very substantial way what happens to the trade deficit. Secondly, we are going to have to become more competitive. We have become flabby, we are not competitive, and we are going to have to become more competitive. On the other side, in terms of structural changes, the Japanese must open up their markets. They have dragged their feet on this, and it has to be done. In addition to that, they have to take other steps to stimulate domestic demand. And again, they haven’t moved on that.

On the future of the Middle East:
The only way that tensions in the Middle East will be turned around is for a new international conference to be called, and that should include Palestinians as well as the other countries that would be involved in such a discussion. I do not see much likelihood of that happening between now and 1988 because this gets caught up in the electoral process. But, it is going to have to be done again, and I think it will be done. But it’s going to take political will on the part of the United States because without the United States acting as the catalyst, nothing in my judgment is going to move it forward.

On Central America:
My own view on Central America is that the only solution that will be a lasting solution is a political solution. And therefore I think it ought to be something along the lines of what the Central American nations have been talking about themselves. We have to make sure that any such agreement is a verifiable agreement, which keeps out for the future any foreign troops or equipment. I think this can be possible if we participate actively in the discussions.

On the future of southern Africa:
I think that the South African crisis is going to become more and more bloody as time goes on, and I just don’t know when it’s going to be resolved. In the meantime, it’s going to be a tragedy for white and black alike. I think that a problem we ought to be addressing is the problem of a safety net for the frontline states—Botswana, and the other countries adjacent to it. Those countries, because of the transportation system, are really almost totally controlled by South Africa, because that transportation system exists now only in the ports of South Africa. Somehow, we ought to be thinking about what we are going to do to help those countries which are really going to be very squeezed at this point if their ability to exit their goods to the sea is stopped.