Saturday, October 10, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Spoof O' The Week: Scammin’ and Snakin’: spoofs extraordinaire
By BILL SCOUTEN

Homecoming weekend -- Let’s hit the Court! It’s the weekend that we've all been waiting for, anticipating the guarantee of fun, friends, and a football victory (?). Hurray! I don’t know about you, but I’m really looking forward to seeing old friends, losing my voice at the football game, perhaps enjoying the Doc Watson concert, and attending the cocktail parties on the Court with my... Oh! I forgot. I’ve got to find a date! Agh!@#$ I hope I’m not too late. “So many beautiful women and so little time.” (All right, it’s not creative... John Barrymore said that.) I better get going!

You need not tell me about your problems. But it’s not too late. We all know that you've been “scamming” on that girl or guy out there... the cute one, the beautiful one, the one with whom you'll never get a date. What have you got to lose? At ground zero, there is nowhere to go but up. Everyone is allowed to have a go at it. It doesn’t matter that you’re shy. This same problem is faced by many each year. So, stop feeling sorry for yourself! Sit down in the easy chair next to the phone and gather around you the Wildcat Handbooks of years 1985-1987. Now, leaf through the handbooks in search of the perfect date. Really, it’s easy! Come on, stop thinking that she’ll never consider going with you or that he doesn’t really like you. Pick up the phone, sound desirous, and above all, don't let your voice crack. Don’t be discouraged. It may take from three to six choices before the right combination is found.

It’s nine o’clock at night, you’re sweating, you're nervous; it’s got to be this one. She’s cute, she has a great personality, she would be a great date! “Hello -----, this is -----. I know it’s late, but I’m calling to ask... ask if you are going to be around this weekend -- at Homecoming... Yea, I’m going to be here, too. Do you have a date to any of the events... I’d love to take you if you haven’t!... Great! Do you like football? What kind of food do you like? Would you like to go to a party on the court?... Okay, I’ll talk to you tomorrow.”

Yes, you did it. You've gotten a date. You’re elated. Relax! Take big, deep breaths because now that you’ve got a date you must worry about several common Homecoming weekend scenarios. Right off hand, three spoof scenarios come to mind as definite possibilities: (1) Beware of being “stood up”; (2) Beware of “grovelling” in public; and (3) Beware of “snaking” on some other person’s date.

Your first worry: don’t get “stood up” by your date. This is possibly one of the most embarrassing pre-date disasters known to man. You’re all dressed up, smelling nice, hair combed -- you look marvelous! Perfect. You walk to your date’s room, knock loudly on the door... no answer. This is outrageous! Did you brush your teeth? My advice: Follow up on your phone calls. Make sure that your “date” knows who you are. Avoid the spoof.

You picked up your date? All is well? Great! But the night is still young. After a winning day of football (?), music, and cocktails, it’s dinner time. Nakato’s (an all-time favorite) or McDonald’s (Jim Walker's alleged favorite) sounds great. The food is good, atmosphere is good, and your date is looking really good! Back to Davidson you go. Drink a little, perhaps too much. Now that date is looking better than you ever thought he/she would... No boy!! Don’t do it!!! Don’t grovel in public! (“Grovelling,” for those who wonder, is a term used to represent what students know as “necking” and “fooling around.”) Exhibitionism is just out of the question.

The final scenario deals not with the logistics of a date, but with simple date etiquette. In short order, don’t “snake” on someone else’s date. (“Snaking” is a term used to refer to the action of flirting to the point of actually drooling over another person’s date.) This is just unacceptable for two reasons: (1) Your date is going to hate you; and (2) The other person’s date is going to hate you. What a bad scene! The solution is simple: You’ve asked this person to be your date, so treat them as your date. (Drool internally!)

Well, there you have it. The perfect “spoofless” Homecoming Weekend. I don’t know why you're sitting there reading my article, though. Yea! You without a date! Get with it, get cracking those handbooks. You'll find a date. There are many out there... I promise!

Editor's note: Mr. Scouten did not find a date using these methods. He called what we refer to as “escort services.” The last we heard is that all had turned him down so far. Let's just keep the record straight, shall we, Bill?

Pop Film: “Song of the South”
By JENNIFER HOFFMAN

Picture the perfect southern plantation, complete with white columns, shady oaks, and Hattie McDaniel (Scarlett’s “Mammy” in “Gone with the Wind”), and set it in the state of Georgia, 1870. Next, picture the colorful cartoonland of Brer Rabbit and the gang complete with briar patch, tar baby, and a singing Mr. Bluebird, and set it in your imagination, a long time ago.

Link the two together with a chubby black servant named Uncle Remus (James Baskett), and you have the setting for Walt Disney’s 1946 classic, “Song of the South.” The plot, based on Joel Chandler Harris’s Tales from Uncle Remus, centers around a young boy staying on his grandmother’s plantation.Who befriends “the best storyteller in the whole United States of Georgia.” The two worlds of reality and imagination are skillfully interwoven on screen as the actors shake hands with the animated animals, and the cartoon characters run through the countryside, followed by their actual shadows. If you saw this movie as a child, you'd be tempted to sing along to the catchy, uplifting tunes. It’s that kind of music. Actually, it’s that kind of movie. 

“Song of the South” captures the magic of childhood and stresses the importance of the family. In the spirit of Aesop, each of the three tales of Brer Rabbit and his escapes from Brer Fox and Brer Bear relate a moral lesson. The pattern is always the same: Smart-talking Brer Rabbit gets himself into trouble and is forced to “use his head instead of his foots” in order to free himself. What this movie lacks in subtlety, it makes up in heartwarming emotion. It’s a film that’s refreshingly predictable. (And it’s rated “G,” though Brer Fox and Brer Bear throw in enough good clean violence to keep it exciting!) Despite the overly romantic setting, the stereotypic characters, and the sugarcoated morals, this film creates one “zip-a-dee-doo-dah” kind of a feelin’ fo’ sho’! 

So amid the studying and partying plans for this weekend, reserve time to see “Song of the South” this Saturday night at 11:30 in the 900 room, or this Sunday afternoon during a special showing at 2:00 in the Big Screen Room. As Uncle Remus says, “Everybody needs a laughin’ place,” and this week’s Pop. Film presentation at the Union could be yours.

Food costs up, Football beats Guilford 35-22
By RUSSELL BOOKER

Fifteen years ago-- October 13, 1972 (LXII, 4)
A survey of freshmen concerning their meals revealed a substantial amount of dissatisfaction regarding the expense of food for the semester. The same survey indicated, however, satisfaction with the eating facilities themselves and the quality of the food served. Students were allotted $2.51 per diem in meal tickets, but a discrepancy between allotted tickets and food prices in the three eating houses of Bailey, Richards, and Rusk has sparked considerable protest from the students. The survey, a questionnaire independently compiled by four students, indicated student approval of the concept offered by the three houses--but that food prices were too high for students to eat substantial meals throughout the week. Roger Manley, one of the students who distributed the survey, said that, “the freshmen were starving... The meal tickets will probably be used up by the seventh week.”

In an unrelated issue, students were upset over the refusal of one of the College’s notaries to stamp documents required by many states for the verification of absentee ballots. Mrs. Joyce Fleagle, Assistant to the Comptroller, said that, “Even though the stamping itself might take only a few seconds, the interruptions keep me from getting my work done... I certainly don’t feel that it’s the responsibility of the college to offer this service. If it were me and I wanted to vote bad enough, I'd go out and pay.” Mrs. Fleagle’s actions came only two weeks after President Samuel R. Spencer urged students, many of whom could vote for the first time under the twenty-sixth amendment, to exercise their privilege in the November elections.

Five years ago-- October 15, 1982 (LXXII, 4)
Davidson students rejected a proposed change to the semester plan in a 743-120 vote, or a negative vote of 77.2% compared to 22.8% of students who voted. The total number of votes was 962; compared to only 600 cast by the students in the SGA elections of the previous year. SGA Vice-President Boe Young reasoned that the high student turnout was due to the large negative vote: students “who voted negatively... were more eager to vote.” Young said that he did not find the results to be a surprise and that it indicated that students were “solidly against” a semester system.

The Wildcats won a thrilling Homecoming contest against the Quakers of Guilford College, 35-22. Davidson gained 403 yards rushing, including a 74-yard touchdown run by freshman quarterback Jay Poag. This was the longest play from scrimmage to date in the season. Davidson’s win set the Wildcats’ record at 2-3, with the other win over Georgetown (Ky.) in the season’s opener. One senior halfback said, “What it all boils down to is hard teamwork every week. We’ve had a few disappointing losses in the past few games but still have just tried to improve steadily each week. And in this game, things really came together. Everyone pitched in. When our quarterback (Jeff Haney) went down, the freshman (Jay Poag) stepped in and did the job.”

This issue of The Davidsonian was primarily a look at religion at Davidson, including interviews with Spencer, Dean of the Faculty T.C. Price Zimmermann, Dean of Students Will H. Terry, and interviews with various professors. The College’s Statement of Purpose was examined, and the features section concerned the Davidson College Fellowship, and, yes, an article on a service at Jim and Tammy Bakker’s Praise the Lord Club at Heritage, U.S.A.