Friday, May 8, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Kirkpatrick speaks on recent visit to Soviet Union

By JIM DILLON

Jeane Kirkpatrick, former ambassador to the United Nations, spoke last Friday to a standing-room-only crowd in the Chambers Gallery on her recent visit to the Soviet Union during which she and several other former government officials met with Mikhail Gorbachev. Kirkpatrick’s speech focused primarily on human rights violations in the Soviet Union and expressed hope that, under the leadership of Gorbachev, the quality of life in that nation will improve.

Kirkpatrick emphasized Gorbachev’s “great energy, vitality, and charm” and distinguished him from former Soviet heads of state. “Mikhail Gorbachev is very different from his predecessors. The first and most striking difference is just that he is thoroughly alive,” she said, contrasting him with recent heads of state in the Soviet Union who came into office at an old age and who died soon after taking command.

Kirkpatrick stressed a comparison between Gorbachev and former Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev. Khrushchev, she said, was a “genuine reformer” in the area of human rights. “He took dramatic steps to relieve repression. He threw open the gates of the Gulag and thousands of prisoners streamed out. He printed [Alexander] Solzhenitsyn and [Boris] Pasternak, and he undertook a broad campaign which was nothing more than telling the truth about Soviet history,” Kirkpatrick said.

Kirkpatrick was quick to note that Khrushchev’s attempts to reform the Soviet bureaucracy led to his downfall, saying that following his efforts aimed at reform within the Communist Party, he was “quite unceremoniously dumped.” Kirkpatrick emphasized though that Gorbachev is also like Khrushchev in that while internal reform is promising, attitudes toward foreign policy are not. She said at the same time that Khrushchev was reforming his own nation, he “was installing nuclear missiles in Cuba aimed at us.” Likewise, she said, Gorbachev’s internal reforms do not “mean a less oppressive foreign policy.”

Kirkpatrick said Soviet foreign policy toward the United States has changed little during Gorbachev’s administration. She also said it is “clear that he is not a great friend of ours: He does not think we have the answers to anything; nor that we know the solutions.” Kirkpatrick said Soviet policy has changed in some ways toward arms control. “At least at the verbal level,” she said, “the Soviet policy has changed.” Kirkpatrick noted the possibilities, which she says Gorbachev supports, of on-site inspections and reductions in the number of intermediate and short-range nuclear missiles. She emphasized that with the allowance of inspections the Soviet “desire for reduction may not only be real but verifiable by real standards.”

Questions following Kirkpatrick’s speech centered around U.S. foreign policy toward Nicaragua. Kirkpatrick agrees with the Reagan administration's support for the contra rebels in their attempt to overthrow the Sandinista regime in that country. She said the U.S. government supports those Nicaraguans “who are fighting, I think, for their independence.” Kirkpatrick emphasized that the U.S. financially supported the Sandinista regime following the overthrow of the Somoza government. She said that the Sandinistas promised free speech and religion and open elections when they came to power but that “they did not keep their promises.” She said that the Sandinistas “came to power by force and govern by force” and that “it is appropriate for the U.S. to support resistance to that government.”

Emphasizing Soviet weaponry in Nicaragua currently, Kirkpatrick said that the Castro government in Cuba is an important force behind U.S. security in Central America. Kirkpatrick said prior to “what happened in Cuba” that “nobody had ever thought of it (Central America) as a region of strategic importance.” Kirkpatrick further emphasized differences between U.S. interests in Nicaragua and those in the earlier Vietnam conflict. Kirkpatrick said the most important difference is that no “American soldiers are fighting in Nicaragua with the exception of volunteers.”

Shevchenko addresses Gorbachev and US/Soviet relations

By NELLE McCORKLEEver to defect, Arkady Shevchenko addressed the “United States and the Soviet Union under Gorbachev” before a packed Chamber’s Gallery audience Wednesday night. A five-year Under Secretary General of the United Nations until 1978, Shevchenko also served as a top advisor to former Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko.

“The Soviet Union is now in a new stage of its development. Gorbachev cannot be compared with the old invalids who ruled the Soviet Union,” Shevchenko said. Gorbachev indicates three major goals for his country: glasnost, economic restructuring, and economic acceleration, according to Shevchenko. Glasnost, often translated as “openness,” permits limited debate within the Soviet media, Shevchenko said. The government continues to control all newspapers and television and radio stations, but glasnost represents an advance: “It’s definitely a positive development in the Soviet Union,” Shevchenko said.

Gorbachev has instituted varied reforms, but his permitting free travel or free voting seems unlikely, Shevchenko said. “What Gorbachev is doing cannot be called even a beginning.” Reforms prompt comparisons of Gorbachev to Peter the Great, but Shevchenko called the analogy inappropriate. He noted Peter the Great’s attempts to Westernize the nation, as opposed to Gorbachev’s efforts at internal Soviet-style development.

Soviet foreign policy will remain substantially unchanged under Gorbachev, Shevchenko believes. Shevchenko instead emphasized Gorbachev’s internal concerns: “His interests are essentially domestic.” Continued weapons build-up appears inevitable, Shevchenko said. “It’s too late now to talk about the elimination of nuclear weapons. I think it would be ideal... but unfortunately this is the fantasy, and we have to be realistic.” He added that current Soviet military expenses exceed U.S. costs by three times.

Shevchenko characterized Gorbachev as cautious and realistic. “Gorbachev is a true communist. He is loyal to the Soviet system... He believes in the potential of the Soviet system.” Additionally, Gorbachev's supporters include the KGB and much of the general population. “In a certain way, KGB are his allies,” Shevchenko remarked.

Regardless of these barriers, Shevchenko indicated hope for heightened U.S./Soviet communication. “Recently... there is a prospect... of possible arms control and a probability of a visit by Mr. Gorbachev,” he said.

Despite broad popularity, Gorbachev does not govern alone, Shevchenko said. The Politburo, of which Gorbachev is one of 11 members, leads collectively although he possesses greater appointment privileges. Shevchenko also noted that the U.S. Constitution grants greater Presidential powers than the Soviet Union permits its Secretary-General. “The Politburo elects its own members without party accountability, but Gorbachev demonstrates consistent communist views,” Shevchenko said. “Gorbachev's emergence was no accident. His selection was, in my view, historically inevitable.”

Gorbachev did not possess a coherent program upon his 1985 election as Secretary-General, Shevchenko said. “Gorbachev came to office without a clear-cut blueprint.” He added that this initial lack of definite direction contributed to increased U.S. confusion regarding Soviet policy.

Shevchenko felt that American/Soviet relations will never be untroubled. He attributed negotiating difficulties to conflicting media reports, Soviet internal disorder, and incomplete analysis by American Soviet experts. A unified Western position appears impossible, Shevchenko said. “We cannot do much to influence what’s going on in the Soviet Union.”

Instead, Shevchenko called for joint Democratic and Republican support of negotiations. “In general, in dealing with the Soviet Union, we need much more bipartisan support in this country,” he said. He also stressed that Americans must separate the Soviet government from Soviet citizens. “I think we must make... a distinction between a regime which one might not like and the Soviet Union as a... great nation,” he said.

Born in Ukraine, Shevchenko became a diplomat in 1956 following graduation from Moscow State Institute of International Relations. He is married to a Wilmington, N.C. native. Shevchenko’s lecture, sponsored by the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies, also received a grant from American Telephone and Telegraph.