Friday, September 25, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bill Scouten’s Spoof of the Week

Welcome back to Davidson’s world of spoofs. This week flowed over with suitable material and proved to be quite entertaining.

I have heard of cats being kept by the hundreds in a house in New York City, or even dogs. In fact, I remember the SPCA raising quite a ruckus over the inhumane conditions that a certain lady’s countless birds were kept in. But what do you do about a rust-colored flamingo that is being abused and is, in effect, a pressure release for students at Davidson?

It seems that the girls on fourth Richardson have sheltered a rust-colored flamingo named Marlene and now claim it as the hall mascot. Once loved by all, Marlene is treading in the waters of death. Scorned by hall residents, Marlene now lives a quite indecent life, being abused, threatened by sharp objects, and forced into many uncomfortable positions. (How would you like your neck tied into knots?) But this is just the beginning. Monday night Marlene was thrown out of the fourth-floor window. (Luckily, she survived.) The most shocking bit of information, however, is the fact that the hall counselors of fourth Richardson are said to beat and kick the flamingo. Someone call the SPCA! This situation must be acted upon... rust-colored, inflatable flamingoes have rights too!

Quite often Davidson is likened to an upper-class pressure cooker, but when royalty is actually sighted on campus, you know something is amiss. Saturday night six self-proclaimed kings graced the Davidson campus. It was said that they were wise men, proclaiming their divine right; they were on a mission from God. The Watts Kings spread cheer and good tidings in the post-MCAT revelry early into Sunday morning. Did you chance to see their eminences?

On a more serious note, have you thought of starting a chain letter? Well, don’t, it has already been done! But this is no ordinary chain letter... Fred Burrel started a chain this past week, but attached to it was not only the address, but a piece of lard. Yes, a piece of animal fat! Although he has received a letter from Boston, its first destination, with the lard intact, the question still remains: how long will the readers bear the odor and appearance of moldy, rotting lard... care to wager, Fred? (Oh, by the way, it’s a great way to make new friends!)

Did any of you ever see Animal House? I’m sure most all of you have; it’s a great National Lampoon flick! The decade of the fifties was a great time; a time of experimentation, expanding suburbia, parties, and last, but certainly not least, goldfish. Yes, goldfish were very important, especially to the fraternities. Did you ever swallow one? Well, in the ’80s room, during a Union freshman mixer, Ingrid (Vanna) Love stood behind five daring freshmen ready for what would be a reenactment of a fraternity “hell week” prank. She stepped up to the table, ready for that scaly, slimy goldfish to slither down her throat to its ultimate sarcophagus... and it did! Why? Ingrid said, “I just did it.”

Speaking of goldfish, I think a moment of silence is in order for Stan the goldfish, formerly owned by Tina Laidlaw, that died this last week (no, Ingrid did not eat it). I have been assured that it lived a happy and fulfilling life. I was shown a sympathy card sent by friends of Stan. It read: “In these times of sorrow, let it be known that I once lost a Stan of my own.” Tina did state emphatically, however, that there is a surviving heir to the fishbowl, Ed. He is desperately in search of a mate. (Poor Ed!) He has bulging eyes and a great personality; do you know of any possibilities?

Have you ever lost a car? No, not a matchbox car, a real, honest-to-goodness car. Perhaps you haven’t, but two unsuspecting, naive, innocent young men did suffer this plight. Joe Treadway and Lowell Stokes, both of Second East Belk, pulled into spaces that they thought looked “just fine,” but when they looked for their cars days later, they were missing! The verdict... towing. Towing is not only to be designated as a spoof, but if the habit continues, you will run up a very expensive tab. Beware! Watch where you park and when you park. The policeman lurks behind the hedges of parking areas just waiting to pounce.

So have a great week and watch out, 'cause you never know when that spoof will jump out and get you! Right, Lewis? Oh, by the way, do you sleep on a mattress outside of Belk every Saturday night?

Two-year scholarships won’t make college easier. Just easier to pay for.

Even if you didn’t start college on a scholarship, you could finish on one. Army ROTC Scholarships pay for full tuition and allowances for educational fees and textbooks. Along with up to $1,000 a year. Get all the facts. BE ALL YOU CAN BE.

“Let us be your connection to great Pizza!”

Mon. - Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. Sun. 4:30 - 11:00 p.m.
Delivering to Davidson College Free

12 in. with 3 toppings - $6.50.
16 in. with 3 toppings - $7.75
not including extra cheese