10 Cinema classic Friday, November 6, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Brother From Another Planet: good, but no masterpiece

By FRANK LORD

The posters for Brother From Another Planet ask: "What happens when a space alien who looks like a black American
lands in Harlem?" If you go and see this film you'll find out, but you’ll want to ask several more
questions. One of these may be: "Why is this film a cinema classic?" To be perfectly honest, it isn’t. That
isn’t to say, however, that it isn’t a good film. I did enjoy it. Quite simply, it is not up
to the caliber of the films on the rest of the Cinema Classics program.

Thus far, the Cinema Classics program has included works by Hitchcock, Stanley Kubrick, Ingmar Bergman, and Jean-Luc Godard. Brother From
Another Planet simply does not measure up to the exalted company with which it stands.

The plot: An alien, looking like the average black American, except for his toes, lands in Harlem. Understandably, he is
confused by what he sees around him. He is cared for by a friendly government official who gets him a
job. After about half of the film, it is revealed that the alien has escaped from slavery in outer space
and is being chased by two men who were sent to retrieve him. The rest of the film revolves around
the chase to return our hero to outer space.

One of the most interesting and perhaps most obvious themes of the film is the alien’s confusion about the culture
that he encounters. The people who made this film realized that it is easy to point up the problems of
a culture when you show it through the eyes of someone that has no knowledge of it. They use his
confusion to show all of the incongruities and problems that we have been conditioned to ignore. This works well at
first, but after a while the methods that they employ to exploit this idea run much too thin and, in
fact, eventually wind up seeming gimmicky.

The most profound theme of the film is that of slavery, present in different forms, in images of drug addiction
or in the references to the slavery that once existed in our own country.

Sexual discrimination alleged in admissions; Costs increase; Five hospitalized after Fiji

By RUSSELL BOOKER

Fifteen Years Ago (Vol. LXII, No. 7)

COED DISCRIMINATION? -- Although it has been rumored on campus that the Admissions Office is discouraging women from applying to
Davidson, Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White claimed that the rumors were absolutely untrue. “No letter even intimating such a
policy has been sent out of this office... . We’ve worked too hard to get coeds. We certainly don’t want
to discourage any.” Several coeds have been under the impression that the college is sending letters to interested women informing
them that few females will be admitted next year. White said that the college was discouraging transfers of male students
for next year, since the college would not be able to house as many women.

HATTIE RETIRES -- Hattie Borgorman, better known as Hattie of Hattie’s Grill which she has run since 1944, sold her
grill last week so that she could retire. When the establishment opened, selling gasoline, groceries, and beer like it does
now, Davidson students were not allowed to drink beer on campus. At that time the college administration frowned on any
sort of drinking: “I can remember when boys would be drinking down here and a professor would come in, the
boys would jump out the windows or hide.

CONFIDENTIAL, from p. 9

5. False. The only cure for drunkenness is time, the time that it takes the liver to metabolize the alcohol
which has entered the body. The liver usually requires one hour to remove one ounce (or one “drink”) of alcohol
from the body.

6. True. Food, especially fatty food, delays the absorption of alcohol into the bloodstream. Overeating will not compensate for truly
excessive drinking, however.

7. True. Women taking oral contraceptives metabolize alcohol more slowly than women not taking the Pill. They are therefore moreSusceptible
to alcohol’s effects, and they are more likely to remain intoxicated for long periods of time.

8. True. When used in responsible and moderate amounts, alcohol can be complementary to individual and group activities.

9. True. Three to five minutes after it is ingested, alcohol can be found in every cell in the body.

10. True. The best way to prevent a hangover is to drink slowly, sparing your body from the shock of
large doses of alcohol. Eating helps because it dilutes the alcohol and slows absorption, while spacing drinks over a period
of time allows the body to metabolize alcohol at a constant rate.

“Confidential Health” is a column written through the advice and expertise of the staff and faculty on campus. The Davidsonian
staff is not involved in reading the questions or in answering them. The column is strictly confidential. Please send your
questions and comments to:

Confidential Health
Davidson College Infirmary
Davidson, NC 28036

Join Us
Main Street Books

Main Street Books behind the bar so that they wouldn’t be seen,” observed Hattie. Hattie sells about a hundred cases
of beer a week, accounting for approximately ninety percent of her total business. Almost fifty people, many of them Davidson
students, packed Hattie’s Grill last Friday night to say goodbye.

Five Years Ago (Vol. LXXII, Nos. 1-3)

COSTS INCREASE -- The total cost of attending college nationwide, including tuition, room, board, supplies, transportation, and personal expenses, has
risen as much as thirteen percent this fall. The survey, performed by the College Board’s College Scholarship Service, considered data
from 3300 colleges and predicts that students at public colleges will spend $4338 this year. Students at private colleges will
pay, on average, $7475 this year. The main rise in costs is attributed to higher tuition, which has risen an
average of twenty percent this year to $979 at public colleges, and risen an average of thirteen percent to $4021
at private colleges. Room and board fees are up eight percent on a nationwide average, and other costs are seven
percent higher this year.

SUSPECTS ARRESTED -- Four Davidson teenagers, suspected of involvement in a 1980 fire which destroyed a Cornelius shopping center, were
arrested by Mecklenburg County Police over the summer and charged with arson. The fire destroyed a Western Auto Store and
four other stores. At the time of the fire, investigators were uncertain as to whether or not the fire was
the result of arson, and listed the cause as undetermined.

FIVE SICK AFTER BASH -- On October 1, five Davidson students were admitted to the infirmary after the “Hit Me
with Your Best Shot” party at the Fiji house the previous evening. One friend of a fraternity brother who was
taken to the infirmary asserted: “We were worried about him; his breathing seemed shallow.” The theme of the party allowed
students to send shots of tequila, bourbon, and Schnapps to other students. The shots were delivered to students by scantily-clad
waitresses who were required to keep the senders’ identities secret.

Davidson
126 South Main Street - 892-6841

NOVEMBER HONORS ROBERT C. WILLIAMS

Dr. Robert C. Williams, VP of Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty at Davidson College, will be honored at MSB
on Thursday, November 12th from 6:30-8:00 p.m. Dr. Williams’ new book, Klaus Fuchs, Atom Spy was released in October by
Harvard Press and will be a main selection for the History Book of the Month Club.

For 1 week only (thru-11/14/87) use this and receive any Sero or Holbrook Dress Shirt
Reg. 22.50 to 40.00

Appreciation Days for Davidson Students
John Mock & Son
Our 75th Year
Downtown Mooresville
Apparel for Men and Women
