Friday, April 3, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Corruption in college sports mars excitement
WHIT WILKS

If you are one of the millions, including myself, who has been glued to the television the past three weekends
watching the N.C.A.A. basketball tournament, you have been fortunate enough to see the best that college sports has to offer.
The Alfords, Robinsons, and Reids have all been available at the push of a button. Additionally, the Davids, such as
Austin Peay and Xavier, have been brought together with the Goliaths, Illinois and Missouri for example, in games which would
otherwise never occur. Whenever upsets take place, as they did in the above games, the wonder which is the tournament
only expands. Unquestionably, the “Road To New Orleans” is the N.C.A.A.’s showcase event, and many would say that it is
the highlight of the entire sports year. However, this year’s tournament came at a time of heightened chaos and unsurpassed
gloom in college athletics.

Cheap seat comments

One would think that the tourney would help the N.C.A.A. raise its once-proud head out of despair, and it does
do that to some extent, but now even the tourney itself is tainted. This year, winning teams were subject to
post-game drug tests to assure that everyone was clean at game time. I am particularly disheartened because it is more
important that Armon Gilliam passed his drug test than his English test. The games are not as interesting when the
outcome is not fully known until an hour after the last whistle sounds as officials tabulate test results. Somewhere along
the way priorities have gone astray.

As disappointing as this problem is, it only scratches the surface of the dilemmas in the collegiate sports world today.
Another troublesome area is the Southwestern Conference in general, as S.W.C. schools have made a mockery of recruiting standards in
the past five years. S.M.U., the worst brother in this cheating fraternity, was finally given the death penalty last month
after numerous wrist slaps failed to accomplish anything. This was the punishment for countless cash payoffs, as well as gifts
of cars and other merchandise, to recruits in hopes of securing their services for the Mustang football program. The mess
only got worse last week when it was announced that sorority women were employed by boosters to have sex with
recruits as a way of enticing them to play their college football in Dallas. This transcends being illegal to being
immoral. SMU should just forget about playing football for a long time.

The Mustangs are not the only program to run afoul in the S.W.C. though. The programs at Texas Christian and
Texas Tech are currently on probation for recruiting violations of the early eighties. Additionally, Houston and Texas Tech are presently
being investigated for alleged violations, and on Monday it was announced that The University of Texas will be checked out
as well. But the trouble is not limited to the football field, as Baylor’s basketball team is also on probation
now. That leaves Arkansas and Rice as the only schools not in hot water with the N.C.A.A.

Just as the N.C.A.A. figures things cannot get much worse, up pops former Villanova guard Gary McLain with his sorry
story. McLain states that he was a cocaine addict during his days at Villanova and that he was even “wired”
when the Wildcats defeated Memphis State in the 1985 national semifinal game. He also alleges that teammates were also into
drugs, though not to the extreme which he was a few years ago. I feel that the McLain incident hits
the N.C.A.A. the hardest. Villanova was the Cinderella of the tournament and the team all America could root for against
big, bad Georgetown. The Wildcats proved that hard work pays off in the end and that dreams can come true.
When their star point guard reveals he was an addict at the time, a lot of worlds had to be
shattered. One can only wonder how many guys in this year’s tourney would have been in the same boat if
they did not have drug tests lingering over them. This must trouble the N.C.A.A. as well.

Over the past weeks, America has gotten to see the best that collegiate athletics has to offer. All the best
players and teams were drawn together and were visible in one 18-day span. The tragedy in college sports is that
as wonderful as the tourney was, it could not make us forget, or hide all the problems that plague collegiate
sports today. The current dilemmas taint the excitement.

Bogert makes preseason picks in baseball
By KEN BOGERT

While the Charlotte Observer continues to ignore our national pastime, the Davidsonian refuses to act in this communist fashion. Seriously,
there is a lack of coverage given to the Major Leagues — hopefully this column will help satisfy the fans’
insatiable appetite for baseball tidbits. I want to keep you fans updated all through the spring about on and off
the field issues. Included in these articles will be my own lopsided opinions about the game. I hope that all
those who disagree with my views will respond; it would help make my reports slightly more objective.

Since the season has not officially started and we all know how worthless pre-season performances are, I want to start
with some pre-season predictions and some comments on the current battle over salaries between players and owners. An unusually large
number of superstars have opted to sit out until their

Who’s on first
BARRON

This aerobics craze has gone far enough! Don’t get me wrong. I can accept anyone who thinks dancing around in
tacky tights to trendy tunes qualifies as first rate exercise. I realize aerobics is a challenging and convenient way to
get the heart running faster and the lungs gasping pathetically. While there is nothing especially revolting about aerobics, the endless
apparel associated with theactivity (notice I did not say sport) galls me. This week I went to Eastland Mall to
buy a pair of running shoes. In the entire mall, there were only 10 pairs of men’s running shoes to
choose from. In contrast, there were 50 different kinds of aerobics shoes one could spend a wide variety of outrageous
sums on to call your very own. At this point lies the crisis: why do you need special shoes for
aerobics in the first place? Ever heard of basketball shoes? Surely the high-flying, full-court pounding and constant starting and stopping
that take place during the course of any basketball game exceed the strain on the feet and ankles caused by
an aerobics workout. If Nike basketball shoes can handle Michael Jordan’s leaping and the pounding Charles Barkley produces, I feel
certain they can take anything Jane Fonda can dish out.

Yet the aerobics fashion craze seems as ridiculous to me as the shoe problem. Why are skin-tight suits needed? Who
in the world thought of making leg-warmers and why do they continue to exist? Is it crucial that my ankles
sweat profusely during a workout if I want to be physically fit? What’s wrong with shorts, T-shirts, and warm-up suits,
otherwise known as sweats? Let’s face it, folks, people were sweating in gyms long before Jane made the Workout for
Pregnant Women Who Smoke and Drink Occasionally series of tapes, now available for $79.95 in fine stores everywhere.

My feeling is that aerobics follows the Fernando Lamas school of thought: it is better to look good than feel
good. Generally, in athletics, neither half of the Fernando creed occurs; good athletes exercise until they feel quite awful and
have sweated all over their old, cotton clothes so much that they look like survivors of a tornado. Aerobics addicts
strive for a cool look made possible by spandex (and other fabrics not of God’s earth) and the industrial output
of Reebok. Throw on your nifty outfit, head over to class for an hour, stretch a little and maybe even
get a workout; this seems to be the new proverb for the fitness conscious, or semi-conscious in many cases.

Once upon a time, sporting goods stores stocked baseballs, footballs, unadorned T-shirts and shorts, and equipment worthy of being owned
by aspiring, successful, or washed-up athletes. The aerobics craze has shackled the sporting goods industry completely, making most stores worthy
only of being called “sports boutiques.” Where have you gone, Joe DiMaggio? Probably somewhere far away from this pestilent trend
dominating our health clubs, an equally unsavory institution. Had “Joltin’ Joe” been born in the 1980s, he probably would have
grown up to replace that Gilad (or whatever that guy’s name is) who does aerobics on ESPN every morning. God
forbid the next generation’s heroes perform leg-kicks instead of hitting home runs.

In contrast, there are salary demands to be met. Roger Clemens and Tim Raines are two of the top names
that will not be in the ballpark on opening day. The management around the majors has remained adamant. Red Sox
management has even announced that it will fine Clemens $1,000 a day while he sits out. The New York Mets
refused to meet Ray Knight’s demands, and the aging third baseman has been forced to take a large pay cut
and play for the Orioles. Jack Clark of the Cardinals was very critical of the owners just last week. He
complained when the Phillies picked up catcher Lance Parrish, and the Cards missed an opportunity to get an excellent backstop.
“Winning is not the number one priority anymore. Sticking it to the free agents is.” Parrish demanded $800,000; the Cards
thought that was too much.

The veteran players are living in a dream world. They miss the bargaining days of just a few years ago
when players were getting whatever they wanted. Remember when George Foster got a $1.5 million per year, five-year deal from
the Mets? It was this type of transaction that put many clubs, like the Pirates, into financial trouble. Now the
owners, with the exception of George Steinbrenner of the Yanks, are determined not to let that happen again. They want
to remain financially stable. But Jack Clark wants to know if the owners want to win. They sure do, but
they are also confident that rising stars can do the job as well as aging players. Winning creates financial stability.
The owners would be crazy to give up a pennant for a few million dollars. Winning generates more money than
salaries, even large ones, cost. But the owners believe they can win and pay less too. When I see all
the new, hungry talent challenging for positions on the rosters, as well as the many talented young players already starring
for their teams, I find the owners’ position an enviable one.

Think of some young stars around the majors — Todd Worrell, Cory Snyder, Tony Fernandez, Pete Incaviglia, Will Clark, Chris
Brown, Eric Davis, Dwight Gooden, Jose Canseco, Wally Joyner, Teddy Higuera, Calvin Schiraldi, Vince Coleman, Lenny Dykstra, Pete O’Brien, etc.
And the list goes on and on and on. Many proven stars might be watching these aggressive kids play the
game this summer. As the youth movement continues, many young teams are picked to do well this year; I feel
the same way. My preseason picks are as follows: the Rangers and Indians in the American League, and the Giants
and Mets in the National League. The Mets will repeat as Series Champions over Bobby Valentine’s Rangers. I have many
reasons for picking these clubs, but youth and enthusiasm might be the most important ingredient that they all share. Watch
for these young players to excel — Greg Swindell of Cleveland, Chris Brown of San Francisco, Pete Incaviglia of Texas,
and Dave Magadan of the Mets.

This has been the “Cheap Seat Comments” of the week. Aerobics are the sports’ curse of the 80s.
