Cats down Tarheels & Forty-Niners p. 6

Volume LXXVII, Number 2
The Davidsonian
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Monday, March 30, 1987

Davidson sends acceptances for Class of '91
By SUSAN PEARSALL

Now that the Admissions Office has completed its list of accepted applicants for the Class of 1991, the usual wild
speculation about the new freshmen has begun on campus. To help alleviate some of the tension produced by such speculation,
The Davidsonian has chosen to publish a profile of the acceptees, the fortunate thirty percent of 2,012 applicants.

Of these 605 students, 362 are males, and 243 are females. The median composite SAT score for the accepted students
was 1270, while this year’s freshman class had a median score of 1230. Their median ACT score was 29, while
this year’s freshmen’s median score was 28. The median class rank of the accepted students is in the top five
percent. It is interesting to note that females had higher Verbal scores (620) than males (600), but that males had
higher Math scores (670) than females (650). The mean ACT scores were slightly higher for females (28 to 27.8), and
the mean class rank for males was 11th to the females’ 6th.

Only twelve students had ACT scores in the 31-33 range, but 89 of them were in the top one percent
of their graduating classes, 68 in the top two percent. Twelve students had Verbal SAT scores in the 750-800 range,
sixty-three had scores in the 700-740 range, and 117 had scores in the 650-690 range. Forty-two of them had Math
scores in the 750-780 range, 147 in the 700-740, and 149 in the 650-690 range.

As far as geographical distribution is concerned, more students were accepted from the Atlanta area than from any other metropolitan
area; while forty-two come from Atlanta, forty are from Charlotte. While there has been a general trend toward a greater
concentration of Atlantans at Davidson, admissions directors were still surprised that Atlanta had surpassed Charlotte as a supplier of students.
One possible explanation, according to Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid James Hendrix, is that there may be more alumni
living in Atlanta who are helping to spark local interest in Davidson.

All in all, 186 students were accepted from North Carolina, 65 from Georgia, 54 from Florida, 41 from South Carolina,
38 from Virginia, 34 from Tennessee, 23 from Texas, and 22 from New Jersey. Three foreign students were also accepted
— one each from Japan, Kenya, and Switzerland. The final listing of all accepted students will be posted by the
Admissions Office today at 3:00.

Davidson student and professor visit Central America
By NELLE McCORKLE

A Central American fact-finding trip organized by Mecklenburg Presbytery included a Davidson student, professor, and two local residents. The group
spent two weeks in Costa Rica, Guatemala, and Nicaragua, returning Wednesday night.

“The purpose was to broaden our understanding of the issues in Central America, to study the role of the churches
in Central America in light of the political situation... with the intention that we could come back and share our
perceptions with people in churches and communities here,” according to Religion Professor David Kaylor.

Participants visited the United Nicaraguan opposition headquarters, the U.S. Embassy in Managua and met a delegate of Latin America’s only
cardinal, Nicaraguan Cardinal Obando y Bravo. None of the four Davidson participants had visited Central America before this trip. Asked
if the region were as he expected, Kaylor said, “The material conditions in Nicaragua were worse than I expected... The
suffering of the Indian population in Guatemala was worse than I anticipated, because there’s no way you can...

News:
Swimming
Johnston Gym lifeguards.
Page 3anticipate that.” One particular visit which affected junior Jody Hart involved the group’s tour of a Managuan hospital. Hart
said, “I met a Nicaraguan government soldier who had stepped on an anti-tank mine on a road in the northern
part of the country. The mine had been placed by contra forces. He had his right leg and his right
arm blown off and one of his eyes so damaged it had to be replaced with a glass eye. I
would estimate he was my age. I guess it stood out in my mind because he wasn’t even in battle,
and he was my own age, and I saw and felt and I guess experienced for that one moment the
pain he had felt, and I couldn't help but feel sorry my government was responsible for it.”

Hart, a political science major, did not receive academic credit for making the trip, but noted that the experience will
supplement his independent study of liberation theology’s political aspects conducted under Political Science Professor Brian Shaw. Shaw and Kaylor plan
to teach “Religion and Politics in Central America” during Winter Term 1987-88. Kaylor said, “I’m exploring the possibility of enabling
students to go on a similar trip next year.”

Visiting Central America strengthened, but did not change Kaylor’s views of America’s role there. Kaylor said, “My opinions remain pretty
much as they had been, that the U.S. needs to play a different role in Central America than it has
played in the past. I think supporting the contras, for example, is a morally bankrupt policy, and I’m more than
ever convinced of it, because we are causing enormous suffering among the Nicaraguans.”

Kaylor and Hart emphasized the diversity of opinion they encountered. Kaylor spoke to an opposition party member in Nicaragua’s parliament,
the Assembly. Despite disapproval of government policies, this parliament member maintained that U.S. support increased Soviet tendencies within the Sandinista
government, Kaylor said.

Central American governments permit religious freedom, Kaylor said. He noted government expulsion of two Nicaraguan priests, one for possession of
contra weapons and the other for advocacy of U.S. aid to contras. The Catholic Church has dismissed 35 priests for
Nicaraguan political activity. “Most seem to think there is enough religious freedom. One could question where religious freedom is most
in danger, from the church or the government,” Kaylor said.

The Nicaraguan Catholic hierarchy maintains close government associations, Kaylor said. He cited Obando y Bravo's claim that the revolution increased
religious repression. The Cardinal’s accusation contrasts with remarks made by other clergy: “We spoke with several Catholic priests and Protestant
leaders who were very sympathetic with the revolution... They felt the Nicaraguan people had benefitted from the revolution. They felt
that they are able to carry on their work without interference,” Kaylor said.

Nicaraguans appeared curious about potential escalated conflict, Kaylor said. “There’s real concern in Nicaragua that the war games’ joint military
maneuvers by U.S. and Honduran troops with Honduras in April and May will become an invasion. The war games tend
to increase the hostility in the region.”

“Geographic and cultural separation can distort Americans’ view of Central America,” Hart said. “A lot of the facts and the
way the situation is presented to us overlooks the human side of Central American society,” he said. “With all the
reading and studying I had done I was at a real distance, and [visiting] brought to my consciousness a sense
of desperation and urgency that I had not had before.”

Features: Inside Art: Opinions:
The Rusk Scholars give Will not run in this issue Senator Terry Sanford British impressions of but will return in
a four-page analyzes the peace process America after three weeks. format. in Central America.
Page 5 Page 7 Page 11
