Friday, April 24, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Two ex-diplomats will speak at Davidson
By NELLE McCORKLE

Former U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Jeanne Kirkpatrick and Arkady Shevchenko, the highest-ranking Soviet ever to defect, will speak
at Davidson on May 1 and May 6 respectively. Kirkpatrick will address “Problems and Challenges of American Foreign Policy”; Shevchenko
will examine “The United States and the Soviet Union under Gorbachev.” The Dean Rusk Program in International Studies will sponsor
both lectures.

“I believe we are lucky to have two headline figures in international affairs come to our campus within a few
days of each other,” Dean Rusk Program Director Jack Perry said. “Both come from careers at the U.N. — but
with totally different perspectives,” Perry said. “Mrs. Kirkpatrick was the U.S. representative and is a leading conservative spokesman on foreign
policy. Shevchenko defected from the U.S.S.R. and is now giving the West his sharp insights into Soviet foreign policy. The
combination is a remarkable one.”

Kirkpatrick belonged to President Reagan’s Cabinet for four years prior to her 1985 resignation. She currently teaches political science at
Georgetown University and serves as an American Enterprise Institute senior fellow. Her five books include The Reagan Phenomenon and The
New Presidential Elite. The first woman appointed U.S. Ambassador to the U.N., Kirkpatrick switched from the Democratic to the Republican
party in 1985. Kirkpatrick graduated from Barnard College and Stephens College and earned her M.S. and Ph.D. degrees at Columbia
University. She studied at the Institut de Science Politique.

Davidson Center for Special Studies Professor Annie de Lattre met Kirkpatrick when both women were Barnard freshmen. De Lattre and
Kirkpatrick became friends and later roommates at Columbia. “Mrs. Kirkpatrick has a very, very sharp mind which she combines with
a very deep culture and first-hand knowledge of things that are going on in the world,” de Lattre said. De
Lattre called Kirkpatrick qualified to discuss American foreign policy. “She’s been thinking about these problems for the last 30 years
or so,” according to de Lattre.

Perry noted Kirkpatrick’s political potential. “I’ve heard her mentioned as a possible Republican vice-presidential nominee,” he said.

Shevchenko left the Soviet Union in 1978. After five years as a top adviser to U.N. Secretary-General Kurt Waldheim and
as U.N. Under Secretary-General. His bestseller, Breaking with Moscow, narrates his experience as top adviser to then Soviet Foreign Minister
Andrei Gromyko. Shevchenko worked for the Central Intelligence Agency for three years prior to his defection. While serving in the
Foreign Service, Perry met Shevchenko. “I got to know Arkady in Washington and find his insights into the Soviet system
really fascinating. He knew all the Soviet leaders from Brezhnev to Gorbachev, and he knows how the Politburo operates. For
my money, Davidson students are lucky to hear someone with this unique experience,” Perry said.

Beyond Davidson
Terrorism continues while arms control advances
By ANNEMARIE BELANGER

Current Events Around the World

On Tuesday, a bomb which had been planted by Tamil guerillas exploded in a bus terminal in Colombo, Sri Lanka,
killing 150 people and wounding 200. Government planes bombed the rebels on Wednesday as they attacked government forces, adding more
than 100 casualties to a death toll that has reached 400 in the past six days. Minority Tamil separatists have
been waging a four-year guerilla war to establish an independent country.

Karl Linnas was deported to the Soviet Union on Monday to face a death sentence. Linnas was charged with running
a Nazi concentration camp, and overseeing the deaths of over 2000 people during World War II. One of the Soviet
Union’s largest newspapers published an ex-convict’s denunciation of the Soviet Union’s labor camps. As a result of Gorbachev's policy of
‘glasnost’, government-controlled papers in the Soviet Union have begun to allow criticisms of the government to be published.Published: As rival
PLO factions made peace on Monday, they called for the establishment of a Palestinian homeland with Jerusalem as its capital.
The organization had been split since 1983, when dissidents broke with PLO Chairman Yasir Arafat. The first successful penetration of
Israel’s heavily guarded northern border in four years occurred on Sunday. Three Palestinian guerillas, intent on seizing hostages, slipped past
Israeli security and killed two soldiers before they themselves were killed.

On Friday, a high-ranking arms control official said that the U.S. and the Soviet Union may conduct underground nuclear tests
at each other's sites as a first step towards improved verification. During his meeting with Secretary of State George Schultz
on Tuesday, Gorbachev suggested the elimination of all short-range nuclear weapons and all intermediate-range weapons in Europe. Though Schultz was
said to have rejected the offer during the meeting, he has been optimistic about it in public.

At least six black railway workers were killed in South Africa on Wednesday in clashes with police. 16,000 railway workers
were dismissed for ignoring a deadline to end their strike.

Across the Nation:
The Senate Committee investigating the Iran-Contra incident voted unanimously to grant limited immunity to former National Security Adviser John Poindexter,
who had previously refused to testify at the investigation. Reagan rejected Japan’s request to remove recently imposed U.S. sanctions on
electrical products from Japan. The action came after Japan had rejected a U.S. proposal for loosening Japanese restrictions on U.S.
agricultural products.

On Tuesday, the Supreme Court ruled that a criminal who played a major role in a crime and displayed “reckless
indifference to human life” could properly receive the death penalty. A panel of the nation’s leading physicists reported that it
would take at least a decade of research before they could decide whether the development of SDI-type weaponry is possible.
On Wednesday, the Supreme Court ruled that individuals convicted of murder may be put to death, in spite of the
existence of statistical evidence indicating that racial bias often helps determine who receives the death penalty.

—Continued from page—
They chose to play for Greer instead. He was able to generate interest from alumni and from the athletic administration.
The result was an increased budget. It enabled Greer to purchase the equipment he needed (e.g., a batting cage and
a pitching machine). It was a great help with the quality of practice and in recruiting new players.

George Greer was lured away from Davidson by an impressive offer from Wake Forest. Greer commented that, “not only was
the financial offer good, but so were the job conditions.” What Greer meant by job conditions was that the environment
was perfect for baseball. Wake Forest has recently shown a tremendous amount of interest in their baseball program. A one-million-dollar
stadium has been started. Wake will now offer thirteen full scholarships which will help Greer get talented players. Davidson, without
the resources of Wake Forest, obviously cannot and will not have such a large-scale program in the future. In addition,
he will be coaching in one of the most prestigious conferences in the country; Davidson does not have a conference.

Kit Morris considers Davidson “fortunate to have had a George Greer. But the right opportunity came along, and he took
it. Now the task of finding a capable replacement is upon us.” Morris has a few candidates in mind, but
would not say, for the record, who they were. He did say that the new coach would not be just
“anybody,” but a “baseball man, a capable manager of both human and fiscal resources.” Morris does not want the program
to slip and is taking serious steps to ensure its continued success.

Before leaving, George Greer wanted to thank the people of Davidson. “I appreciate the kind words people have said about
the team since I’ve been here.” He also wanted to thank Kit Morris for his “generous support of the baseball
program” and Jamie May, the Alumni Director, and Sandy Carnegie of the Wildcat Club for their help in generating alumni
interest in the team.
