Friday, May 1, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Fowler emphasizes value of liberal arts education
By DAVID WILLIAMS

Although busy celebrating his twenty-fifth class reunion with fellow alumni, Georgia Senator Wyche Fowler '62 agreed to answer a few
questions about Davidson’s role in the molding of public officials. Besides serving the state of Georgia as a senator, Fowler
has also served Georgia citizens as an alderman for the city of Atlanta and as a U.S. Congressman for ten
years. Following are his comments.

Davidsonian: How have your experiences at Davidson affected your career?

Fowler: I still believe strongly that the finest foundation for living responsibly and with a sense of community, of sharing,
and of one’s obligations to community and society is a liberal arts education. The values that come from the study
of history and literature and of those who have come before are what, not only mold one’s character, but give
one that wider perspective — that all the problems that you have, someone else has had before and that the
only limits to manmade problems are the lack of imagination and determination to put new ideas and new minds to
work on solving these problems.

My education at Davidson has had a profound influence on me. It taught me to be curious. It challenged my
preconceptions and prejudices in many areas that I arrived with as a hot-shot high school student. I remember in Dr.
Polley’s Bible course having to read Schweitzer and Niebuhr in the first three weeks. I never had read anything except
some little Biblical tract to challenge my understanding and perspective of my faith. So it was a powerful experience. I
don’t know whether Davidson taught me how to think, but it certainly taught me how to reflect and to rethink.

Davidsonian: In reflecting upon the Iran-Contra affair and the recent indictment of a Congressman, it is hard not to believe
that many politicians simply lose their sense of ethics once they attain a position of power. Can a college such
as Davidson provide a strong enough background for a person in public service to maintain his sense of ethics and
morals?

Fowler: I would like to think that the quality of my public service will reflect those principles that I learned
both in my church and in my education at Davidson. I can say that “full stop” as the British say,
end of sentence. But in our country, the people are the government. I am merely a representative. I am a
steward of that trust. And in a democracy, the people get the kind of government they deserve, because it’s their
decision as to who serves. That means that if you tolerate apathy in your public officials, you get apathy. If
you tolerate corruption in your public officials, you are going to get corruption. But it is only the activism of
the citizen who realizes that the people form the government in this country and that you are pretty much going
to get elected representatives who reflect, not only the hopes and aspirations of the people who elect, but also the
ethical standards and the moral precepts that govern their character and their conduct.

When you get Congressmen who are in trouble, again that is the genius of the system in a way. The
United States Congress, the 535 people, pretty much reflects the traits and problems and peculiarities of the people they represent.
That means that if three or four percent of the society are alcoholics, you will probably get three or four
percent in the Congress. And if you get three or four percent of the society who turn out to be
crooks, you are probably going to get that reflected also in the Congress. But it is the people and the
citizen who can make that determination because they can throw the bad ones out. And that’s

EPC proposal reshapes calendar and curriculum
By JIM DILLON

The Educational Policy Committee (EPC) has made its recommendation for changes in the Davidson curriculum and calendar and approved it
by a vote of eight to zero with one abstention and will now face the faculty for approval. Major changes
proposed in the recommendation report are based on a new semester system, which the committee recommends adopting. The new semester
system would basically entail students taking four courses over a period of two terms in a year, and 32 courses
required for graduation. Faculty would be expected to teach five courses in a year. Courses would meet for 50 minutes
on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday or for 75 minutes on Tuesday and Thursday.

Additional changes take place as follows: Course numbering would be altered such that 100 level courses would be introductory courses;
200 level courses would be intermediate or general courses; 300 level courses would be advanced; and 400 level courses would
be specialized courses in one’s major and intended only for seniors. Each major department would offer a “capstone seminar” for
seniors. This would be used as a medium for “intellectual discourse among students as well as between students and professors.”
Interdisciplinary senior seminars would also be instituted.

Students with a grade point average of 3.2 or better would be eligible for honors work in their major. Students
would be “encouraged to consider an Honors program of study.” Students would also be encouraged to consider a senior thesis
or project. Concentrations would be adopted which would allow students to supplement their major and would be recognized as such
on a transcript. Concentrations would require the taking of four to six courses in the concentration, two of which must
be at the 300 or 400 level. Concentrations would require faculty approval by the first semester of the junior year.

Independent studies would be encouraged. Sophomores would be allowed one independent study in a year while juniors would be allowed
two and seniors would be allowed three. All independent studies would necessitate faculty approval. Departments would be encouraged to assess
the quality of their major by comparing Davidson senior majors to national averages. The committee recommended that Graduate Record Examinations
(GRE) “provideexamples of what might be done.” The committee recommended changing the current area requirements from 12 courses (three each
in four areas of study) to 10 courses which would be distributed in the following manner: one course in literature
(English or foreign); one course in art, music, theatre, or speech; one course in history; two courses in religion and
philosophy (at least one of which must be religion); one course in mathematics; two courses in science (one with a
laboratory); and two courses in social science (anthropology, economics, political science, psychology, or sociology). Students additionally would have to take
at least one course designated as a “nonwestern course.” For a major, a student would have to complete at least
10 but no more than 12 courses in his major, five of which must be at the 300 or 400
level. Students would have to achieve a grade point average of 2.00 or better in all courses in the major
and receive a B or better in at least two courses in the major.

State of computers is mixed at Davidson
By NELLE MCCORKLE

The Computer Services Center must sell 50 computers by July 1 to fulfill the college’s contract with International Business Machines
(IBM). The Davidson/IBM volume-purchase agreement grants a 30% discount provided that the college buys 150 new machines annually. Currently, the
college retains approximately 75 new machines per year and resells 75 at cost.

“This program is called the PC [Personal Computer] project,” Assistant Director for Academic Computing John Savarese said. Davidson became IBM’s
first educational affiliate at the college rather than university level. “Davidson offers a greater discount than many universities which operate
similar programs,” Savarese said. “We pass on the exact price we pay,” he said.

Established in March 1984, the program has sold 331 computers to date. The college uses 129 of those computers; 66
faculty members, 24 staff members, and 112 students purchased the other machines. Davidson finances the project, including the salary of
a full-time employee who markets the machines and processes orders. Last year the program also sold almost one-third of its
quota at the end of the fiscal year. The Computer Services Center resold 30 machines in June 1986 to guarantee
renewal of IBM’s contract. “We didn’t think it [the contract] was going to be renewed,” Savarese said. The Computer Services
Center primarily markets the machines with a mailing to incoming freshmen, Savarese said. His office also planned a computer fair
this past fall and maintains two Chambers bulletin boards.

The program permits an interest-free loan to faculty and staff members who buy the college’s new IBM personal computers. Applicable
to purchases up to $3,000, this credit system allows repayment over one, two, and three years. Sixty faculty members now
own personal computers purchased from the college. No such loan exists for students. “I wish we had a loan for
students... It may happen in the future, I think it would be an excellent idea,” he said.

Some technical institutions require student ownership of computers, but Savarese considers the computer's role different at a liberal arts college.
“We have no computer science program here. That’s not the way most of us approach computing, and I think that’s
appropriate for a liberal arts college. For us, computing is something that should be woven into everything we do. Most
of us are not interested in computers in themselves, but as tools, and I think that’s right for a liberal
arts college,” he said.

College ownership of personal computers increased from 20 machines to the present 138 IBM models over the past two years.
Savarese advocates college-wide emphasis on personal computers. “The computer is 90% a communications tool. In any joint endeavor, it’s important
that you speak the same language,” he said. “It’s like having all railroads run with the same gauge of track.”
He considers IBM’s latest model sufficient for Davidson’s needs and does not anticipate college sale of IBM-compatible products.

Instead, Savarese considers networks the most important current development for Davidson computing. He foresees joint access to information available at
other colleges. Davidson’s use of the PRIME computer involves mainly statistical study, Savarese said. He said, “Some things work better
on one system than the other.” Savarese cited PRIME use of SAS and SPSS-X statistical software packages for economics, political
science, psychology, and sociology.

Davidsonian: But does Davidson provide a strong background in terms of values and ethics for the public servant?
Fowler: What Davidson does is expose. It exposes the values inherent in our courses. The nuggets are there for a
student to dig out. I often say to graduates, who say, “You know I would like to go into politics,
but I haven't had any preparation in political science,” that that is not the preparation. That helps, but it is
your studies of history and literature as well as philosophy and even architecture, that is the best preparation. And if
you want a crash course in political science and political theory, all you need to know about politics, all you
have to do is read the tragedies of Shakespeare. And contained in Macbeth and Othello and Julius Caesar and King
Lear are just about all you need to know about politics.

Other computer systems used at Davidson include Apple personal computers. Psychology Professor and Center for Special Studies Director John Brockway
received an Apple Corporation and Sloan Foundation grant which provided Macintosh Plus personal computers. Ordered in March, these machines will
arrive May 20. Classical Studies and Music departments will each use three computers; the psychology department will use five, Brockway
said. College use of differing Apple and IBM personal computers caused no conflict, Brockway said. “In an administrative sense, it
provides what is known as a multi-system environment. For a while Macintosh seemed to be the only machine which merged
exciting graphics and text in a single machine. Now, it’s my understanding that the new IBMs do that, but I
have no experience with that,” he said.
