Wednesday, April 15, 1987  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

News Shorts

Phi Beta Kappa Members For Davidson Announced

Cheerleading squad holding tryouts  
Tryouts for the 1987-88 Cheerleading squad begin April 20, 7-9 p.m. in Johnston Gym. Anyone needing further information or details should contact Sarah Longley at 892-6167.

Material contributed by Sarah Longley  
Material contributed by Aaron Levine

Solidarity Day II canceled due to bad weather  
Solidarity Day II, originally scheduled for April 4, was canceled due to inclement weather. According to Senior Marc Gosnell, there was not another open date on the calendar to reschedule the event for this year. He hopes that another Solidarity Day will be scheduled early next fall. Last year’s Solidarity Day was held in response to a Ku Klux Klan march on Main Street in Davidson.

Davidson artist wins UNC undergraduate competition  
A lithograph titled The Great Curve by Mike Jarmon, a junior art major at Davidson College, won the “best in show” award at the North Carolina Undergraduate Juried Show in Chapel Hill.

Material contributed by College Relations  
Mike Jarmon and prize-winning artwork (left)

The following students were elected to the membership of Phi Beta Kappa on April 6, 1987:  
John Miles Abernathy III  
Sheryl Lynn Aikman  
Frances Lanier Sykes Alexander  
Steve Ragsdale Baskin  
Laura Taylor Batten  
Dawn Renuka Bhasin  
Elizabeth Anne Lee Bowers  
Christine DeVore Bretscher  
Elizabeth Howard Carlton  
Mary Moir Chapman  
Mark Hsin-Tzu Chen  
Boyd Wayne Coggins, Jr.  
Diane Lynn Duvall  
Reubie Holliday Gaston  
Ellen Anne Harding  
John Kirk Harper  
Michael McElwee Holt  
Cristopher Nicolas Jones  
Laeta Elizabeth Kalogridis  
Jennifer Susan Link  
Michael Andrew McDonald  
Christine Marie McGuire  
Kathleen Mary Micham  
Anne Christine Montrem  
Howard Bromley Moyes  
Daniel Beasley Murrey  
Edwin Leonard Page  
Katherine Ellen Prillamen  
Sheley Rene Revis  
Douglas Brewster Robelen  
Mark Steven Sandy  
Scott Christopher Saye  
Joseph Paul Simpson  
Michael Charles Stephens  
Whitney Lynne Stevens  
Deborah Jo Stiehr  
Mary Malin Van Antwerp  
George Oliver Wagner V  
Basil Gordon Watkins III  
David Joyce White III  
Edward Croft Wilson, Jr.  
Julian Hugh Wright, Jr.

Beyond Davidson  
By KATHERINE PRICE

Headlining the news for April 3-14:

Around the World — The Soviet Union announced the expulsion of six Frenchmen on Sun., April 5. The expulsions came in retaliation for France’s expulsion of six Soviets for espionage three days earlier. Soviet espionage at the new U.S. embassy in Moscow has created a perceived security threat for the U.S. The embassy incidents preceded the three-day arms control meeting between U.S. Sec. of State Shultz and Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze that began on Mon. The U.S. is considering providing a special communications trailer for private conversations between Shultz and Washington. Prior to his trip, Shultz described the U.S. administration as “damned upset” about the Soviet actions. The U.S.S.R. responded by claiming that they were the victims of U.S. espionage efforts. Soviet leader Gorbachev postponed a trip to Prague, Czechoslovakia for several days, due to a slight cold.

U.S. Pres. Reagan met in Ottawa with Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney last week for talks which focused on problems of acid rain. Mulroney insisted that the Reagan Administration’s recent $2.5 billion research proposal on acid rain was not enough. Reagan responded by agreeing to consider Mulroney’s proposal of negotiations for a bilateral accord on the matter.

The U.S. and Japan have failed to agree on trade issues, making the imposi-of U.S. tariffs on Japanese electronic imports almost certain. Japanese opposition parties claimed significant victories in nationwide local elections. Prime Minister Nakasone, who had proposed an unpopular sales tax, now faces difficulties in enacting his economic programs. Northern Ireland experienced mob violence amid funeral delays for slain Irish Republican Army guerrilla, Lawrence Marley. As police fought the angry crowds, eleven people were hurt. Chadian President Hissene Habre, exultant after recent Chadian military victories against Libya, announced his willingness to discuss peace with Libyan leader Qaddafi. On Saturday, however, Libya bombed a Chadian air base they had deserted. Qaddafi recently announced his desire for “rapprochement” with the U.S., stating that he believed U.S./Libyan relations could improve following the 1988 U.S. elections. Pope John Paul II observed violence in Chile as anti-government demonstrators rioted during his mass. The Pope ended his two-week South American tour in Argentina. In China, officials ordered the closure of 39 popular magazines. Such measures follow a three-month-old government crackdown on Western influences.

Across the Nation — U.S. officials reacted to last week’s arrest of three Marine embassy guards with great alarm. As mentioned previously, the administration feared U.S. security had been severely compromised by the incident in Moscow, in which Soviets were allowed access into the U.S. Embassy. The new U.S. Embassy, constructed with prefabricated materials from the U.S.S.R., reportedly had been bugged by the Soviets. President Reagan responded by barring the Soviets from moving into their new embassy in Washington until assurances are made that the U.S. embassy in Moscow is secure. President Reagan lost an important legislative battle last Friday, when N.C. Senator Terry Sanford switched his vote in favor of overriding Reagan’s veto of an $87.5 billion highway bill. FBI Director William Webster, whose confirmation hearings for the position of CIA Director began on Wednesday, promised to inform Congress on covert operations if confirmed. New York Rep. Jack Kemp announced his candidacy for the Republican presidential nomination. He joined ex-Delaware Gov. Pete du Pont and ex-Sec. of State Alexander Haig as Republicans who have officially announced candidacy. Ex-Colorado Sen. Gary Hart joined the list of Democratic candidates who have made official announcements — a group including ex-Arizona Gov. Bruce Babbitt, Missouri Rep. Richard Gephardt, and political extremist Lyndon LaRouche. Tenn. Sen. Albert Gore and Illinois Sen. Paul Simon stated that they also will seek the Democratic presidential nomination.

Surrogate mother Mary Beth Whitehead had visitation rights reinstated by the N.J. Supreme Court. She will be allowed to visit her daughter two hours weekly. A PTL lawyer has reported the suspension of monthly payments to Jessica Hahn, the woman involved in a 1980 sexual encounter with ex-PTL President Jim Bakker.

In Economic News — Texaco, Inc. became the largest U.S. company to file for bankruptcy protection on Sunday. Texaco filed Chapter 11, delaying an $11 billion judgment to Pennzoil Co. Reportedly, the daily operations of Texaco, the country’s third biggest oil company, will not be affected. The stock market value for both Texaco and Pennzoil fell Monday by a collective $1.5 billion. The U.S. dollar fell to a record low against the Japanese yen on Friday — down 2.90 yen to 142.50.