Friday, May 1, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

—Seldom Scene from page 4—

met the other members of the band at Davidson. When she was three, she began playing classical violin, then took up the fiddle as well after meeting Molly.

Jay Wilkins, a senior, plays guitar for the group. He began playing seven years ago in Greensboro.

On mandolin for the band was Darek Newby, a junior. Darek also plays the guitar, and only began playing the mandolin three months ago.

Guitarist Liza Paschall has also performed with the group. The band has been playing for almost two years now, though they do not yet have a name (and welcome any creative suggestions!). Their activities around campus have ranged from Friday Afternoon Clubs, to performances at Natural Resources, to shows for the residents at the Bryan Center Nursing Home.

Recognizing that there are many students at Davidson who play instruments, the band hopes to organize an acoustical music society next year which would provide students with the opportunity to share different musical styles.

Such an organization would be in keeping with the spirit of the bluegrass festivals. As Molly Cochran put it, it is these festivals which set bluegrass apart from other types of music. “It’s the closest thing to the folk festivals of the Sixties such as Woodstock. It’s an incredible feeling when people from such diverse backgrounds get together.” At the festivals, people bring their instruments, and in between acts, start playing songs together in a large circle. “It’s such a sharing atmosphere, crowds sharing music and advice.” That’s what bluegrass is all about.

This past Saturday possessed an air of nostalgia as John Starling returned to his Alma Mater on a reunion tour. But it also held hints of the future as present Davidson students performed the opening acts, a position John Starling might have held in '62.

—Convocation from page 1—

In a short speech before the closing of the convocation ceremonies, Vance said his hope and belief is that Davidson’s Dean Rusk program in International Studies and the college as a whole “will continue to produce men and women of the character and wisdom of Dean Rusk.” He said, “As one of Davidson’s most distinguished alumni,” Rusk ’31, who was Secretary of State from 1961-69 “personifies the kind of person our nation needs to lead us in the years ahead.”

Vance said that although he and Rusk see “reason for discouragement” in the “manifold ills” which the modern world faces, “I believe that both Dean and I see promise overshadowing discouragement.” He noted that “there is enormous work to be done, but I have faith that this generation of students will do that work.”

He said that to many Americans, “it sometimes seems that our sky is dangerously close.” He said, “We live under the shadow of nuclear weapons. Conflicts continue in and among nations. Millions of our fellow men and women around the world live lives of grinding poverty.” But he urged that “if we work together, I believe we too can lift the sky and make more room for all to live — with dignity and peace.”

©1986 By
Mant
Groennt&

- aren, 1Ag semmieeg aury Aq prinquysi]