~ Sports Wildcat football decapitated in “Brain Bowl,” 42-6 By STEWART RAWSON and MATT TERRELL ~

Davidson: “Princeton vs. Football at Bumbling Best.” Needless to say, it was not a very complimentary heading for the fearless Wildcats, yet that is how the front page of Sunday’s Charlotte Observer read. A redeeming quality of the article was the splendid photography exhibited with it. Despite the article’s berating title, the Observer runs no risk of a lawsuit for absence of malice because the truth has been printed.

The Cats carried a 14-game losing streak into Saturday’s contest and revealed little hope of breaking the string at half-time. Even though Davidson did not show too much enthusiasm on the field, the students who showed up early for the tailgating seemed to be enjoying themselves, reveling in the traditional “rites of fall football.” The Charlotte location marked the first time in almost a decade that the Cats had traveled to the Queen City for a football contest. Since the game was designed to generate better alumni and student support, this writer feels as though it served its purpose.

The game started out poorly for the Wildcats as Princeton flanker Judd Garrett broke to the right side of the field and pulled in a pass from brother Jason Garrett and cut up the field for a quick 32-yard gain. Five plays later, with 11 and a half minutes left in the first quarter, Judd Garrett took the pitch and rambled five yards for the Tigers’ first touchdown of the game. From then until the half, the Tigers from Princeton controlled the ball on the way to a 35-0 cushion at the break. Freshman Bryn Robinson showed his typical running strength until he was injured.

Cats run well at second meet By BILL SMITH

The cross-country teams traveled to Rock Hill, South Carolina this last Saturday for the Winthrop International, their second meet of the season. Our Davidson women ran very well, placing second in a fourteen-team field. The University of South Carolina easily won the meet with a low score of twenty-five (fifteen is a perfect score). We locked into second with seventy-one points while Radford University followed with 108 points. The overall winner for the five-kilometer race over asphalt and grass was Wilma Deplore of USC with a quick time of eighteen minutes, twenty-eight seconds. The lead runner on our team was sophomore Missy Willis placing fifth overall. Her time of 19:09 was the sixth fastest time in Davidson history and placed fourth on Davidson’s all-time performer list. Morrow Reeves ran second at seventh place and with her time of 20:06 reached the top ten of all-time performers securing the tenth slot. The three women who completed our score were Debbie Niles at 14th, Laura Fannin at 15th, and Karen Kemerait at 30th. Moreover, all ten runners ran their best times of the season, and when Kappa Peddy and Lisa Culbert return from their injuries the team will be even stronger. With the leadership (seven seniors), the progression being made, and the good, quality workouts, this team has the chance of gaining that fourth slot in the conference.

Our Davidson men had a good meet with eight runners pulling in their best times of the season. In a field of twenty teams, we placed eighth overall with 221 points. USC completed the double by capturing the men’s title with the low score of thirty-one points. Campbell University finished a distant second with seventy-nine points. The overall winner, who mistakenly led the runners off course during the second mile, was Ken Frenette of Campbell with a time of twenty-five minutes, thirty seconds. Davidson’s first five were within a minute, four seconds of each other — a good sign if their times drop later in the season. Jay Clugston came in 27th with a time of 28:09; Bob Cornish followed at 41st with a 28:41; Chris Fisher, who is recovering from an injury, finished 46th with 28:46; Steve Childs, an impressive transfer student, ran in at 53rd with a 29:05; and Bill Breidenstine placed 54th with 29:13. This year’s team is low in experience and the goal is to constantly improve while strengthening the sophomores and the freshmen for the following years.

The upcoming meet this weekend at Appalachian State is filled with excellent competition in both races. The men and the women have chances of running quick times because of the fast course at Moses Cone Park and the current weather condition if it remains the same. The field in the women’s race consists of several strong teams such as Appalachian State, Duke, Virginia Tech, and Wake Forest, especially if they bring their first teams. In the men’s division, Appalachian State will be competitive as well as Virginia Tech and possibly Liberty College. Our runners need and deserve support, so if you are in the vicinity drop in and yell them onward to success.

Soccer plays By WHIT WILKS

The Wildcats were again on the road for their only contest of the week as they took on Wake Forest in Winston-Salem Wednesday afternoon. The Deacons showed little hospitality in jumping out to a quick 1-0 lead only eleven minutes into the match. The goal was the result of a one-on-one breakaway as a ’Cat permitted the opponent to go unchallenged from midfield all the way into the penalty area. Goalie Jim Kelly made a good effort to stop the clean shot. The ’Cats would soon respond with an opportunity of their own due to the work of Peter Cobb. The effort was stopped, however, and the Deacs scored again as only a few minutes remained in the half. At that point, Curtis Ott fed Robert Avinger with a pass into the corner. Avinger in turn found Chip Wittman, who responded with a diving head ball from in front of the goal to even the score.

A busy week in the sports world By ANTHONY MCCARRON

With the pennant races heating up, scab teams getting set to play, and your buddy Davey Johnson, manager of the New York Mets, going public with his potential contract problems, this has been a busy week in the sports world.World. Here are some thoughts on the action. The Tigers-Blue Jays series this past weekend could not have provided more excitement. All four games were full of drama and suspense. How about Juan Beniquez’s bottom of the ninth triple with the bases loaded to beat the Tigers on Saturday afternoon? Or Kirk Gibson’s homer to tie, single to win performance for the Tigers on Sunday? Or Doyle Alexander’s heroic 10 2/3 inning effort as Detroit’s starter on Sunday? Every game was a one-run thriller. Let’s put it this way, folks, the Tigers needed that win on Sunday, and even though they are currently 2 1/2 games behind the Blue Jays, that win might have given them a psychological edge for this weekend’s crucial three-game set with Toronto. Had they been swept, the Tigers would have faded from view and the Jays could have coasted. That win kept them close enough to set the stage for what could be another great series to close out the season.

Speaking of America’s pastime, the Minnesota Twins and San Francisco Giants both clinched their respective western divisions this week. The Twins captured their first AL western crown since 1970, and the Giants their first NL western crown since 1971. The Giants are a surprise because only two years ago they lost 100 games. The emergence of such talent as Will Clark and Jeffrey Leonard, as well as the club’s shrewd wheeling and dealing to get key players like Rick Reuschel, Kevin Mitchell, and Dave Dravecky, have made the Giants into a very tough ballclub. The Twins have top talent such as Kirby Puckett, Kent Hrbek, Gary Gaetti, Frank Viola, and Jeff Reardon, and have gotten the job done well all year. Look for them both to make an early exit from postseason play, though, as neither of them have the horses to compete with any Eastern Division winner. In the NL East, the Cardinals, the Mets, and the Expos all outclass the Giants, and I predict whoever rides out the storm of their pennant fight will end up in the World Series. The same goes for the winner of the AL East. Toronto or Detroit both should have no problem at all disposing of the Twins in the divisional playoffs. In a nutshell, the fall classic again this year will be made up of teams from the eastern divisions of both leagues.

In the wake of the pennant race, some rather disturbing news came from the New York Mets. Apparently, Mets manager Davey Johnson might encounter some contract problems in the off-season. The Mets have not offered to extend Johnson’s contract past next year, and Johnson is understandably concerned. He discussed this off the record and naturally, it came out in the news a few days later. Now, he is concerned he might be fired for discussing his contract situation. What he should be concerned about, however, is keeping his team alive in the pennant race. With the Mets only 2 games off the pace, why does he discuss his contract problems with anyone, on or off the record? While the Mets are trying to catch the Cardinals, they don’t need to see articles in the paper about their manager’s contract problems. Including this year, Johnson has managed the Mets to four consecutive 90-plus win seasons, he is an excellent manager, and the Mets will take care of their own. What Johnson should be concerned with right now is winning the pennant. If the Mets do not catch the Cardinals, Johnson's season will be over soon enough anyway. Then he will have plenty of time to discuss his contract situation with the management. Until then, he should keep his mouth shut about his contract, even if he is only talking to his friends, and concentrate on not blowing games to Pittsburgh with the pennant on the line.

Lastly, a quick word on the scab teams. More power to them. I’ll be watching them on Sunday when the NFL resumes play with free agents and rookies. Of course, the players are mad at these so-called scabs, but the scabs are not to blame. These men are only trying to get a chance to do what they love. They are not trying to take anyone’s job from them, all they want is the opportunity to play. Incidentally, the records and the statistics should definitely count as they will be compiled by men officially representing their respective teams. Perhaps when these games are started the players will work a little harder to resolve the strike and get back to business.