Friday, October 23, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

Stock market crash, U.S. bombs Iran’s platforms

By KATHERINE PRICE

Headlining events October 14-22:

In economic news — the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 508 points on Monday, beating the record set in 1929
by the selling panic of the Great Crash. Economists speculated on the likelihood of recession as well as on worldwide
repercussions from the shock. While no one knows for sure what will come of Monday’s stock market panic, economists stress
that the international economic structure is vastly different from that of 1929, and that other economic indicators are healthy. The
Dow Jones average bounced back by 102 points on Tuesday in record-heavy trading.

Around the world — the U.S. responded to an Iranian attack on a U.S.-registered ship by destroying two Iranian military
platforms. President Reagan stated that the U.S. retaliation was proportionate to the degree of Iranian hostility. Iran has vowed to
strike back at the U.S., which has resumed its escort of Kuwaiti tankers through the Persian Gulf. The U.S. Senate
voted to endorse Reagan’s Persian Gulf policy with “reservations” on Wednesday, postponing any possible application of the War Powers Act.

Costa Rican President Arias won the 1987 Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts in establishing the Central American peace plan.
Arias convinced all five Central American leaders to sign the regional peace agreement, which U.S. President Reagan has called “fatally
flawed.” The peace plan calls for rebel ceasefires and an end to foreign military aid and intervention.

In the African nation of Burkina Faso, Capt. Blaise Compaore led a coup over Capt. Thomas Sankara, to wrest control
for his “popular front.” The self-proclaimed government promised a return to democracy.

Geiden Aliyev, the 64-year-old protege of ex-Soviet leader Brezhnev, was dismissed from the Soviet Politburo. Health reasons were cited, but
many observers speculated that present Soviet leader Gorbachev was dissatisfied.

Ortmayer quits ’88 presidential race

By MARGARET CARROLL

Tuesday night, Davidson’s Chapel Committee hosted Associate Professor of Political Science Lou Ortmayer, who led a lively after-dinner discussion on
the qualities of a good political candidate. Much to everyone’s shock and dismay, however, Ortmayer announced that he had decided
not to run in the upcoming presidential election.

After the discussion, students raised questions regarding the media’s role in politics, the sincerity of modern public servants, and, most
importantly, Ortmayer’s plans to run in ’92. Ortmayer opened the discussion by passing a political cartoon around the table. The
cartoon showed that the qualified political candidate should have “no skeletons in his closet, no bizarre sexual habits, no character
flaws and no political positions.”

Ortmayer explained that the media is looking for the candidate who has no flaws, but on the serious side, that
candidate will also be a “faceless, nondescript person with no ideas.” Ortmayer then explained four important qualities to look for
when examining a political candidate. One must note how the candidate has dealt with “roadblocks” or “insurmountable” obstacles. How has
the candidate reacted to frustration?

One must also examine how the candidate has dealt with excess glory, which is inherent in all political successes. How
has he or she managed to keep a clear head? One must determine how the candidate has dealt with political
“burnout.” How has the candidate kept a balance between engagement and detachment?

Lastly, one must observe how the candidate has dealt with the “big temptation,” the presidency. Can he or she be
willing to make open choices and face the consequences?

On an even more serious note, Ortmayer noted that each of the criteria can also be used in examining one’s
own life, concentrating on abilities and ignoring superficialities. Ortmayer feels that whoever wins the presidency in 1988 will be forced
to patch up problems generated not only by the economic and diplomatic policies of the Reagan administration, but also by
the policies of several preceding administrations.

Ortmayer has withdrawn from the ’88 election because he can “hear the train’s whistle” from his house (the train that
has run over many ’88 presidential hopefuls, despite forewarning); because his comment that North Carolina textile mills “need to import
some Poles” to improve efficiency was not well taken by the public; and because of unmentionables that...

Can We Help?
- study skills
- time management
- stress management
- relationships
- cross-cultural counseling
- weight control
- career counseling
- alcohol & drug abuse

STUDENT COUNSELING CENTER
08 Union Basement Ext. 451
Amelia Dockery, Ph.D.
Tom Pitt, Ph.D.
M. Ed. Christine Davidson, Secretary
Campbell Peery, M.A.
Henry Young, Ph.D.the media might dig up. As for his plans for the election in '92, Ortmayer thinks that his
chances of running are slim; however, Davidson students can only hope that he will change his mind and embark on
the challenge.

Late exp -be overwhelmed with Aliyev’s performance. News media around the world focused attention on the rescue of eighteen-month-old Jessica
McClure from the bottom of a narrow well-shaft in Midland, Texas. Workers dug a second tunnel parallel to the one
in which Jessica was entrapped, and succeeded in rescuing her sixty hours after she fell in.

Across the nation — the House Ways and Means committee voted to recommend a $12 billion tax hike. The tax
increases would primarily affect corporations and the wealthy. The Senate Finance committee voted to pass a similar proposal. President Reagan
has threatened to veto any tax increases. Congress and the president are seeking to find a way to reduce government
spending to meet the deficit-reduction goals of the Gramm-Rudman law. The Senate voted 84-11 to confirm William Verity for the
position of Secretary of Commerce. Verity, of South Carolina, has advocated increased trade with the U.S.S.R. Verity will replace Malcolm
Baldridge, who was killed in a rodeo accident.

A military jet crashed into an Indianapolis airport, starting a fire and killing nine people. The pilot managed to escape.
First Lady Nancy Reagan underwent breast cancer surgery this week. The operation went well and Mrs. Reagan is expected to
be released from the hospital soon.

SGA update
By ROBERT SMALLEY

The SGA Senate met Tuesday night and discussed the proposed academic calendars for the next two years. As reported two
weeks ago, the Senate suggested that the final day of the semester, a Tuesday, be dropped and replaced with a
reading day. Although the Senate believed it was representing student opinion with this recommendation, the faculty executive committee chose to
adopt the calendar as it stood, with only one reading day. All students are encouraged to talk with Senators and
give their opinions; Senators are preparing to address this issue again at the next faculty executive meeting.

The Senate also heard a report from the special laundry committee, which is looking into the various facets of the
service. The group had met with Director of Auxiliary Services Carl Pritchard and learned from him that the service would
not be feasible were the fee not mandatory for all students. The laundry requires a set budget each year and
the college cannot subsidize it. The committee will look further into the laundry situation, examining the actual financial records and
reporting again next week.

Find out how you can have your medical school tuition, required books and fees paid in full—plus earn more than
$600 a month. Clip and mail the coupon below, and we'll send you full details on the Armed Forces Health
Professions Scholarship Program. We'll tell you how you could qualify for a Physician's Scholarship from the Army, Navy or Air
Force. If selected, you'll not only beat the high cost of medical school, you'll also gain valuable medical experience serving
on active duty 45 days each school year as a commissioned officer in the Reserves. After graduation, you'll serve three
years or more—depending on the Service you select and the level of scholarship assistance you receive—as a respected Armed Forces
physician. You'll also get good pay, regular hours, great benefits and the chance to work with a variety of patients
and the latest medical technology.

YES! while you attend school. If you meet the age requirements noted below for the Service of your choice and
want to cut the expense of medical school send for more information.

Send me full details on how the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program can help me meet my medical school
expenses. I understand I am under no obligation.

Mail this coupon to: Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box 2865, Huntington Station, NY 11746-2102

I meet the age requirements noted below:
() Army (21-52 years of age)
() Navy (18-33 years of age)
() Air Force (19-35 years of age)

Please print all information clearly and completely.
(Male () Female ()

Name: First Middle Initial Last
Address: Apt. #
City: State: Zip:
Phone: ( ) ( )
Social Security Number:
College:
Birth Date: Mo. Day Year
Field of Study:
Graduation Date:

The information you voluntarily provide will be used for recruitment purposes only. The more complete it is, the better we
can respond to your request. (Authority: 10 USC 503)
