Wednesday, January 28, 1987  
THE DAVIDSONIAN  

Student team addresses admissions problems  
By GEORGE KURANI  

Davidson's Student Admissions Team held this year’s first meeting on Jan. 21 at 5 p.m. Now several years in existence, the team will pursue candidates in an attempt to give applicants a realistic impression of Davidson life. Surveys have shown that a number of elements have an influence on a student's choice of college, including the applicant's sense of identifying with an institution and knowing that it will be a good match for his abilities and needs. This “personal element” arises from campus visits as well as contact with present students. Although the college tries to convey a personal message in its recruiting publications, the Student Admissions Team hopes to add to Davidson's impression by talking with applicants in an open-minded atmosphere.

Laurel Buchmiller, senior admissions counselor, said that the focus of the team is involving students in the total recruitment effort. By the end of his junior year in high school, a student has probably selected a number of possible colleges on the basis of his high school achievement. The admissions program's job is to be involved in recruitment efforts that will ensure Davidson a high visibility to attract good applicants.

“A strong applicant will usually have to make a choice between a number of good colleges,” said Buchmiller. “Because Davidson has such an emphasis on its personal touch, the Student Admissions Team will be a perfect vehicle for us. They will try to make sure that a student has an understanding of the social and academic offerings that are available at Davidson, while at the same time trying to diffuse an applicant’s fear of the unknown through continued contact.”

“Members of the Student Admissions Team do not perceive themselves as salesmen for Davidson,” added Buchmiller. “Rather, they are a great resource for answering questions about living and educational experiences here.”

Last year Davidson had 2057 applicants of which 29 percent, or 604 students, were accepted. Of the accepted applicants, 348 decided to attend Davidson, bringing the yield to 58 percent, which is considered excellent. The Admissions Office is expecting as many or more applications this year and is impressed with the number and quality of applicants so far.

While the Student Admissions Team will contact a large number of students, it will be generally restricted to talking with stronger applicants. Members of the team will send letters or call in an effort to introduce themselves as a student contact at Davidson.

In future years the Student Admissions Team hopes to initiate a fall visitation program to high schools across the country. Members of the program would meet with counselors or headmasters to provide information on Davidson which could then be passed down to students. A follow-up program would be instituted in the spring. Student Admissions Team members are seeking a large number of Davidson...students to get involved with the program. They are looking for students with a variety of interests from as many different geographical regions as possible. Anyone interested in working with the student Admissions team should contact Laurel Buchmiller at the Admissions Office.

Magubane sees victory in South African struggle
By ED MATTHEWS

“In the last 30 months or so, power,” said Dr. Bernard Magubane as he began his speech. “Before the eyes of the entire world, the African struggle for national and social emancipation in South Africa has moved steadily and hurriedly, inevitably to where the very survival of the structure of white power there is simply more in doubt. The struggle is no longer for concession. It has moved from hope in reform to a realization of the need to uproot the white minority structure of power.”

A main factor, he said, is that the “oppressed majority has gained a new sense of its power.” He cited numerous activist groups in South Africa to support his statements. Last Tuesday evening in the Union’s Morrison room, Magubane, who spoke to a crowd of more than 50 faculty and students, was born in South Africa and received both his B.A. and M.A. in Sociology there at the University of Natal.

After an examination of the current situation, Magubane shifted to an investigation of the present volatile conditions. “The people know that history is on their side... and that they are going to win.”

“On the side of the white population... the Nationalist Party... has lost the confidence of those who elected it. Racism and a system of white domination are simply unacceptable in the last quarter of the 20th century.” Magubane pointed to the emergence of the United Democratic Front and the re-emergence of the Black Trade Union. He also noted that support from other countries in the form of divestment can only help speed the inevitable process of change. The white rulers have said divestment will hurt only blacks but, according to Magubane, this assertion is false. Both sides will suffer. For the first time since 1930, whites in South Africa are experiencing the poverty common among the suppressed. “It is the white-collar workers, mostly whites, who will be hurt when interests are withdrawn,” he said.

Magubane is hopeful for South Africa’s future. More and more people of all races have moved to the left, he said. Past experiences indicate the majority’s desire for a fair representative government, he added.

STUDENT OPPORTUNITIES

We are looking for girls interested in being counselors—activity instructors in a private girls camp located in Hendersonville, NC. Instructors needed especially in Swimming (WSI), Horseback riding, Tennis, Backpacking, Archery, Canoeing, Gymnastics, Crafts, also Basketball, Computers, Soccer, Cheerleading, Drama, Nature study, Field Hockey. If your school offers a Summer Internship program we will be glad to help. Inquiries—Morgan Haynes P.O. Box 400C, Tryon, NC, 28782