Volume LXXVIII, Number 1

Students protest

WDAV cancels Flipsides

By SUSAN PEARSALL

At a meeting on Thursday, September 10, Vice-President for Institutional Advancement John Griffith announced the cancellation of the WDAV alternative program “Flipsides.”

The program, which admittedly did not fit into the station’s classical format, was the last vestige of the formerly student-operated, student-programmed, ten-watt station which the Trustees took over in December of 1978 and subsequently upgraded into a professional outfit with a classical music format. It was also at that time that “Flipsides” came into existence. As a concession to the angry students who resented the loss of “their” station, the Trustees and the staff of WDAV agreed to air “Flipsides” in the 11:00 p.m. - 1:00 a.m. time slot every weeknight and to give the program entirely over to student operation. However, in the fall of 1985, a committee of the Advisory Board of WDAV decided to review the “Flipsides” program and its place in the new classical format. The reviewing process, designed by the head of the “Flipsides” programming staff as well as a few students and members of the professional staff, began in February of 1987 and was conducted by the Advisory Committee. According to station manager John Clark, the committee made every effort to ensure an “open, accessible” review process. As a result of the review, a sizable portion of the advisory board decided that the “alternative” music aired on “Flipsides” represented a valid cultural art form and deserved expression. They recommended to the professional staff that the program continue because of the student participation it afforded at WDAV.

However, Clark said, in late April the staff began considering the board’s conclusion and determined that “while ‘Flipsides’ music is a valid art form... it is so radically different from the rest of our format that we decided to recommend to the staff that it be discontinued.”

Clark, defending the staff’s findings, stated, “Our perspective is, we’re looking at a radio service whose primary interest is serving the classical format, and at whether or not ‘Flipsides’ fits into that format.”

See FLIP, page 3

Monday, September 21, 1987

Emanon sells Kappa Sigma’s kitchen

Money funded beach trip

By WALT REYNOLDS and FRANK FOLGER

When members of the Kappa Sigma fraternity colony returned to school this September, they discovered that the kitchen facilities in their newly-assigned Patterson Court house had been partially removed.

According to Kappa Sigma President Conrad Doenges, Dean of Students Will Terry and a member of Kappa Sigma inspected the old Emanon house at the beginning of last summer and determined that the existing kitchen would be operable for the colony’s opening in the fall.

In fact, Doenges stated, the house’s kitchen was one reason why the old Emanon house was selected for the Kappa Sigma location.

“They [the school] thought that by giving us Emanon, the cost would be reduced... because it had a working kitchen.” However, upon arrival at their newly-assigned house this fall, members found that many of the previously accounted-for kitchen supplies including plates, silverware, cups, pots, and pans were missing. Dean Terry was informed that the Emanon members had, without permission, sold much of the kitchen equipment.

Michael Stephens, Treasurer of Emanon, said he was in charge of an auction held last spring, open only to past and present Emanon members. At the auction, many house furnishings, including kitchen ware, were sold to individuals. Stephens claimed that the auctioned property was rightfully owned by the house according to the Davidson College Patterson Court House Operations Guidelines. The guidelines, provided by the Business Office, define the responsibilities of both the college and the tenant organizations in maintaining and operating each house on Patterson Court. According to these guidelines, which are under revision this year, “the college provides [Patterson

See EMANON, page 4

News: Davidson student busted for selling drugs Page 4

Features: The Booze Brothers return from the hereafter Page 8

Sports: Baseball’s feats Page 11

College imposes new parking fee

But where will money go?

By PETER MANGONE

When returning Davidson students registered their cars this year, many were shocked to discover that the college now requires a $30 registration fee for all students who wish to keep a car on campus. Any student who refuses to comply and parks in campus lots will have his car towed at his own expense.

The decision to charge a registration fee results from a revision of the campus parking policy begun last year under the supervision of Public Safety Director Jackie Hughes and Vice-President of Business and Finance Robert Sutton.

According to Sutton, there were three main factors which contributed to the decision to charge a parking fee. First, there was a “growing sense of the need to deal with the parking situation.” According to Hughes, some Davidson students were simply not registering their vehicles with the campus security last year. He

See FEE, page 4

Opinions: Bryant on Page 15

They’re doing it again, Page 15