Features Official Story explores horrors of totalitarian society By PRISCILLA FAUCETTE

A compelling and symphonic film is The Official Story by Argentine director Luis Puenzo. Its historically realistic setting is in
Argentina, 1983, just after the Falkland War and shortly following a twelve-year military dictatorship. During this period, the government had
“protected” its citizens from Communist dissidents by “disappearing” them. This film concerns itself with how this era of horror affects
one woman.

A very moving performance is given by Norma Aleandro as Alicia, a history teacher who ironically seems naive and uninformed
about recent political events in her own country. She leads a comfortable and happy life with her husband, Roberto (Hector
Alterio), and their adopted and adored daughter Gaby (Analia Cadra) until a visit from an old friend Ana (Chunchuna Villafane)
brilliantly inspires questions in Alicia concerning her daughter’s background. In one of the most touching and excellently performed scenes of
the film, Ana laughs and cries as she tells Alicia about her personal experience being tortured and raped and about
the fate of several other women, whose babies were killed or stolen to be put up for adoption. From this
point on, we see a gradual and painful awakening of Alicia as she sets out on a persistent quest for
the real parents of Gaby — a quest for truth.

The camera moves effectively amongst the characters and discreetly from emotionally tense scenes to serene, childlike ones. Puenzo wisely opts
for close-ups as his primary technique for characterization. We are not merely watching these characters; we feel with them their
horror, pain, frustration, and sadness. These emotions culminate in the final exploding scene of violence, affection, and love between husband,
wife, and daughter.

The Official Story is an excellent film in virtually all aspects, but its genius comes from its harmonious and powerful
comparison between the real-life brutality of a society and its far-reaching effects on a family. Showings are in Love Auditorium
Saturday night at 8:00 and Sunday night at 7:00, followed by a discussion with Dr. Kemp.

Exploring memories past and future of McDonald’s

What's new around Davidson? Seems like a silly question, doesn’t it? Well, the purpose of this column is to inform
you, the lucky reader who has made it this far in the paper, that there are indeed many (well, at
least a few) new things around the campus. For example, a thrown-together student sculpture display in front of Cunningham, which
sits waiting for self-consciously confused students who call themselves artsy, avant-garde, and “in touch” to amble by muttering later to
like-minded friends, “Oh, I thought it was really neat.” Waiting in front of Hodson like some great sacrifice to some
great tribal god that these pretentious folk call Art. Waiting for some unwitting photographer to stumble onto, photograph, and submit
to the measly arts page and for the recently drunk fraternity guys to guffaw over some Sunday morning, three a.m.
Waiting for the humble, grumbling, unappreciated physical plant crew to unplant it into the dumpster behind Little.

McDonald’s — the savior of a hungry nation on the run. This is new. This is exciting. This is Davidson.
Is this good enough? It wasn’t for me, so I set off to Charlotte, hoping that the queen city, often
called the world’s largest truck stop, could quell my passion for novelty. Suddenly — on the horizon, out of the
wild blue yonder — the Golden Arches! But from whence had this gateway to another world come? A world of
bright colors and politeness amid the drab reality of shattered genteel southern fast food at Hardee’s and the rough abandon
of worn Ham n’ Eggs waitresses. McDonald’s — the savior of a hungry nation on the run. Bursting with the
promise of the new oriental chicken salads, McNuggets, perfect fries, and the eternal Big Mac, the new building unscathed by
the curse of bad location and worse patrons greeted me as had my first McDonald’s years ago. Ah yes... McDonald’s.
It brings back memories for everyone where lovers, too cheap for Wendy’s, meet and fall in love gnawing the straws
of tepid shakes, where Dad, asking innocently for a taste, takes that first big bite out of your sandwich and
eats the last fries, where Mom brought you and Sis for Jerry Haskins’ ninth birthday party to be entertained by
the McDonald’s Party Lady and some cheap magician dressed as Ronald who dropped the cloths out of his baggy sleeves
as he cursed using some then unknown words to describe the $2.85 that his employers call minimum wage, where deep
in McDonald’s mythology the real Ronald wakes from nightmares of the Fry Guys finally stealing the fries while Grimace looks
on living up to his name. Well, maybe not.

I ordered the Big Mac Attack Pac. It arrived. I sat on the plastic seats surrounded by Miami Vice and
hair salon colors: peach, turquoise, beige, blah. I half expected Chief Big Mac to come out dressed like Don Johnson
and offer me a permanent wave and a mousse. Then the moment of truth arrived. The food was perfect, identical
in every way to every other billionth meal McDonald’s has ever served. The Big Mac — not too much special
sauce.the two token pickles. The fries golden brown, crisp, succulent. The soda, Coca-Cola Classic of course. It was just like
T.V. and I was living it and “Oh, I thought it was really neat.”

Streep and African safari enrich Out of Africa
By MARK CHEN

Out of Africa is both a great adventure and a great love story. The adventure lies in a naive, hapless
maiden who goes into the depths of Africa. In the wilderness, she battles the elements, tames fierce tribesmen, and creates
a proper Western farm and parlor on the Savage Continent. The romance lies in the great love between her and
a man who has endured the frontier hardships, a man of great strength and utter devotion.

In Out of Africa, that relationship is between the Baroness Karen Blixen and her trusty manservant and translator. A fling
with Denys Finch-Hatton is mostly pointless.

The Africa that we know today is not the stuff of Hollywood. It is mostly populated by starving children, white
supremacists, and quaint Marxists spouting slogans which went out of fashion in the West twenty years ago. Yet when the
European nations divided Africa up into colonies, it was a land for romance and big-budget pictures. Out of Africa is
a throwback to that era. Despite being made in the eighties, the movie is essentially about a dreamworld which no
longer exists.

Out of Africa evokes a land of loyal servants, great white hunters, and wild beasts. The Africa which is portrayed
never really existed, except in the adventure books of the 19th century. The movie is based on the writings of
Blixen, who wrote under the name of Isak Dinesen. It begins with the Baroness, a Danish lady who is setting
off for Africa. Meryl Streep has this leading role. The time is 1913 and the place is Kenya. Her husband
Bror, played by the great German actor Klaus Maria Brandauer, has taken her money and invested it in a large
farming estate. Despite her inexperience, Karen soon takes on the conditions of the Dark Continent and wins. While the irresponsible
Bror goes off to hunt, Karen sets everything in order on the estate. The ignorant and numerous tribesmen are soon
under her command.

Karen is less successful when she confronts Denys Finch-Hatton, played by Robert Redford. He is a hunter and leader of
safaris in the African wilderness. Naturally, Denys falls for a woman who is every bit as strong and independent as
he is. But Karen discovers that while Denys loves her, he will never stay very long with her. While Karen
devotes her life to caring for her estate and her servants, Denys roams the continent without making commitments. The main
theme of the movie becomes this battle between freedom and security, between the wanderings of Denys and the concerns of
Karen.

This may be the theme of the movie, but Out of Africa never makes you take it seriously. For one
thing, the intended epic romance between Denys and Karen fails. The failure is not due to Meryl Streep. Though she
is most famous as the beaten-down Sophie, Streep manages to play a strong and decisive heroine. She seems credible as
Karen, a woman who can live on the African frontier in an elegantly furnished home. Redford does little if anything
to live up to his epic billing. The Denys of Dinesen’s tales was an English hunter, but Redford never even
bothers with an English accent. Redford mostly relies on his epic American looks, a trick which might have worked with
Clark Gable, but Redford is no such legend, despite the promotion of Hollywood studios. The love of Karen for the
negligent Denys seems a mistake in such a sensible woman.

The movie was directed by Sydney Pollack, and he tries to liven up the romance with epic camera angles. The
viewer sits through panoramic, languid scenes in which Denys washes Karen’s hair, they shoot lions, they fly in his plane
and stalk African game. My own opinion is that National Geographic pictures are fine in the magazine, but I get
bored by their documentaries. One African vista is very like another.

The movie is entertaining in the smaller elements. Brandauer plays well as the charming but unreliable Bror. Despite doing a
number of things to make her life miserable, Karen and Bror remain believable as friends. The most touching and romantic
scenes come between Karen and her manservant. By repaying each other with complete loyalty, they truly seem to be in
love.

There are also funny moments provided by the supporting cast. Above all, the adventure story is enough to keep the
movie interesting. Despite the literary pretensions of the script, the movie works best as an African safari. Out of Africa
is really like the retreads of recent years done in the Hollywood style of the past. The best point of
the movie is entertainment.

If these virtues seem too small to you, then don’t go to see Out of Africa. But if you want
a pleasant movie for two hours, then pay the 99 cents that the Union is charging. The Union is also
giving away free popcorn. Out of Africa is playing on Friday in the 900 Room at 7:30 p.m. and 9:45
p.m.
