2 Friday, March 20, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Faculty and students react to semester proposal

By DAVID WILLIAMS

The EPC states that it “hopes that its proposal will receive the widest possible scrutiny and comment, since only an open process of discussion and debate will bring about the changes we believe will improve the already excellent academic program of Davidson College.” As such, faculty and students alike have already begun informally discussing the advantages and disadvantages of the proposed calendar switch.

At present, some faculty members favor the early semester calendar, while others oppose it. Economics Professor Charles Ratliff said, “I basically favor the semester system because it allows for more ‘percolation’ time. I realize that students will be taking more classes (under the semester system), but still the student gets a chance to come to class and reflect on that particular material over a day before he or she comes back to the next class.”

Anthropology and Sociology Department Chairman Grant Jones expressed a similar view. “What I find the major disadvantage of the trimester system is that there is not enough time,” he said. “Ten weeks is over before it starts, and then you have to pick up and turn around and do it all over three times. To have to begin the term over three times is exhausting.” Under the semester system, he said, “there is more time for individual student work, which tends to push people towards more independent initiatives and provides a more flexible schedule.”

But other members of the faculty have expressed reservations about semesters. Chemistry Department Chairman Roger Nutt said current laboratory facilities in sciences such as chemistry cannot accommodate the increases in the sizes of science classes that would result under the semester system. Nutt added that a “major disadvantage” of the semester system is that a student interested in premedicine or science will have “much less flexibility” in terms of when he or she begins taking science courses. “Down the road,” Nutt said, “what that means is that Davidson will be less attractive for individuals interested in science or premedicine.”

Art Department Chairman Herb Jackson, who was a Davidson student at the time the college first decided to implement a three-term system, said the EPC proposal would eliminate the “flexibility and focus” that the current three-term system was designed to provide. Jackson has submitted to the EPC an alternative proposal which he says would preserve the current three-term system but would provide additional flexibility in scheduling. Jackson’s proposal calls for blocks of time to be scheduled where certain classes could meet twice a week on Monday and Wednesday or Tuesday and Thursday for two hours. Other, more intensive classes could maintain the current five meetings per week.

Students, as well, have expressed differing opinions about the proposed calendar switch. Sophomore Susan Park favors a semester calendar because she says it would give students more “percolation time” to think and reflect on the material covered in each of their courses. Park said, “I definitely think that material you have retained over fifteen weeks might last longer than something that has been crammed in ten weeks.” Junior Charles Tambiah said he believes a semester system “would give much more room for students to self-fulfill their interests.” He said that under a semester system if students...

Kazee wins Washington fellowship

By TOM MOORE

Tom Kazee changes jobs next year, and he’s looking forward to a year of responsibility and challenge. “They may have me take out the trash, though,” the Davidson political science professor laughed. Kazee is a winner of the American Political Science Association’s 1987-88 Fellowship program. He and the other fellows depart to Washington, D.C. in November and, after a month-long orientation period, will work full...Time in congressional offices for nine months. “We'll be the same as any full-time staffers; we'll draft legislation and do legislative research, probably more of the latter,” for political scientist types, he said. A wide variety of professions are represented in the fellowship program, from journalists to political scientists to doctors. After the orientation period, fellows will be able to arrange which congressional office they would like to work for. “One requirement is that we can’t negotiate with any office before the program commences, so that everyone has an equal chance,” Kazee said. Fellows switch to an office in the opposite chamber of Congress after four and a half months.

Though he can’t make any commitments, Kazee expressed an interest in working with Georgia senator Wyche Fowler, who was elected in 1986 in an upset victory over Mack Mattingly. “We're ideologically compatible, and he has lots of House (of Representatives) experience,” Kazee explained. “He’s from a state like North Carolina, and he’s also a Davidson alumnus.”

Kazee was drawn to the program by its track record. “It was the most compatible with my interests of all the fellowship programs, and I have been very impressed with the quality of the fellows,” he said. The American Political Science Association has sponsored the program since 1953, and 1,218 have previously participated. “Much of the good research being done today in political science is by former fellows, which reflects the quality of the experience of the participants. The program is recognized for quality.”

Kazee’s Washington experience is not limited to the nine-to-five workday. Weekly seminars will be held, addressed by prominent politicians or public figures. This should be “the most pure profit, the most pure enjoyment” of the fellowship, he said. The opportunity comes along “at an excellent time, purely coincidental,” Kazee says. He was due for a sabbatical anyway, and the 1987-88 political season is an election year. “Not only that, but a Presidential election year,” he noted. “If you have lawmaking interests, it’s not such a good year, because Congress is less in session,” and less gets done on Capitol Hill. However, “My work is electoral, and this is going to be an open, competitive election. It should be very exciting,” he said, and the August end of his fellowship allows him to work through both parties’ conventions.

Although one of his wife’s friends has told him that when he goes off to Washington, he’ll never want to come back, Kazee discounted the seductiveness of the capital. “Washington is real exciting, but it would take a lot to push me,” he said. “I don’t see myself doing anything else. My best guess is that in twenty years, I'll be here” at Davidson.

Kazee’s position at Davidson will be filled by a visiting professor. Already, fifteen applications have arrived for the job, and invitations for interviews will be issued soon. The visiting professor will teach two classes per term, including one seminar in his or her specialty. A major concern for Kazee and the rest of the political science department is finding a replacement who can also fill his shoes on the volleyball court. The team is looking for a hitter.

“Let us be your connection to great Pizza!”
Delivering to Davidson College - FREE!
After 9 pm SPECIAL
Monday - 12 in. with 3 toppings— $6.25
Fri. and Sat. 16 in. with 3 toppings— $7.75
Mon. - Thurs. 11:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.
Fri. and Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.
Sunday 4:30 p.m. - 10:00 p.m.
892-9046
25% OFF any order of 3 or more large PIZZAS

Students have an interest or question that is not covered specifically in a class, “they would have an opportunity to do outside reading, which is not available now.” Sophomore Jay Townshend also favors a semester calendar, because “having classes every day can be too demanding for students in college.” Townshend said, “I just think having a day off, or having a variety of schedule, just appeals to me more than just having the same, hum-drum three classes in a row.”

But Junior Chris Duke said he would favor retention of the current three-term calendar. “The trimester system is one of the things that sets Davidson apart from other institutions,” Duke said. “It does make things a bit easier because you only have three classes a day, and you only have three classes a term. The pace is fast and furious, but you learn a lot, and you learn to keep up.”

Freshman Shannon O’Shields said she would also favor the retention of the three-term calendar. “I don’t like the fifteen-week terms proposed under the semester calendar,” O’Shields said. “I tend to burn out after about ten weeks. And I like the fact that we only have three classes now so that we’re not overloaded with too much stuff.”