The Davidsonian
Wednesday, April 15, 1987

Davidson Athletics quickly moving up
By HAP BRYANT

Davidson athletics has made major strides in recent years, success that should continue into the future, according to Athletic Director Kit Morris. Morris views athletic achievement as a vital part of the college, a philosophy which he hopes to convey to students and other Wildcat supporters.

Morris believes that sports such as baseball, soccer, men’s and women’s tennis, and basketball have improved greatly, which he attributes to excellent coaching and the intensity of student-athletes. He looks optimistically upon the future of Davidson football as well. According to Morris, Davidson’s goal for its football program is “to be competitive in the Colonial League.” Another, seemingly more distant, goal is winning a conference championship in football. He expressed the belief that the current football coaching staff has directed its efforts in the right direction. “Given our recent history, I feel confident that we are on target.” However, two or three years will have to pass before the effects of Coach Vic Gatto’s efforts will result in a winning status for football.

According to Morris, recruiting efforts during the two years prior to Gatto’s hiring were less than adequate. Thus, Davidson must now compete with two solid recruiting classes against teams with four solid recruiting classes. Morris stressed that “rebuilding a program is not a simple thing.”

As a member of the Colonial League, Davidson will enter a conference with which it has had limited experience. As Morris said, “Competitively, there are questions that we can’t resolve until we get into next season.” However, he believes that the schedule will benefit the program. “I feel good about the schedule we'll be playing.” Membership in the Colonial League will allow Davidson to schedule both Colonial League members and Ivy League members. With those opponents and two more good recruiting years, Morris said, “It is my sense that we can build here a reasonably competitive program. We’re not out of the woods yet, but we can begin to make some competitive headway.”

In other sports, Morris praised the efforts of the coaching staffs. He particularly recognized the women’s tennis team, which has made a smooth transition to Division I competition. The program is still in the process of bettering its schedule, but Morris feels confident that success will continue. In recent matches, Morris sees great developments. “The victory over UTC may represent the biggest victory to date of any of our women’s teams against Division I competition.”

In basketball, which Morris called Davidson’s “showcase sport,” he is “delighted with results that Coach Hussey and his teams have accomplished over the past two seasons.” Although affiliation with the Southern Conference will end after next year, Morris believes that success and competition will continue. He looks toward the Colonial Athletic Association as the most viable future conference for Davidson.

The Colonial Athletic Association, formed in 1985 from the ECAC South Conference, consists of American University, East Carolina, George Mason, James Madison, Navy, Richmond, UNC-Wilmington, and William and Mary. The conference sponsors Division I sports in all sports except football and requires member participation in all sports. According to Morris, he, President Kuykendall, and the Board of Trustees continue to work behind the scenes, trying to gain entrance into the Colonial. He describes the conference plight as “a challenging situation,” as “the conference that we would like to join at the present time is not actively seeking new members. We have responsibility for cultivating their interest in us.” Although the conference appears closed, Morris stressed that he still has work to do. “We want to improve our quality and put ourselves in a position to take advantage of any opportunity that may come available in the near future.”

Regarding the exit from the Southern Conference, Morris noted that his options were limited. The other member schools of the Southern Conference revoked the waiver that allowed Davidson to compete in conference sports while not competing for the conference championship in football. The Trustees’ decision in the early 1970s to end football scholarships forced Morris to move toward a conference whose members also grant only need-based scholarships. Morris feels the Colonial League is the answer. He noted, “Do you take the sport that involves more students and is most expensive and forfeit our competitive stature, our self-esteem, and resources we devote for the single reason of maintaining sports information?”Our relation with the Southern Conference?” Morris feels the conference move was the right one, and he looks confidently on the future of not only Davidson football and basketball, but of other sports as well. As he said, “There are some good things happening,” and he looks for further advances in the coming years.

Women’s tennis ends season in strong fashion
By ANDY BARRON

The women’s tennis team got red-hot last weekend as they outplayed Southern Conference rivals Marshall and Tennessee-Chattanooga, 9-0 and 6-3 respectively, and then beat denominational rival Presbyterian 7-2. The three-match tear left the Wildcats 9-5 on the season.

Last Saturday the Wildcats got more competition from the weather and their wakeup call than Marshall. The 6 a.m. wake-up call, seven-hour van ride, and blustery 30-degree weather failed to slow Davidson’s charge at shutting out the Thundering Herd. Davidson’s relentlessness inspired peace offerings from Marshall, who suggested a trip to a bar rather than facing more destruction in doubles play. The Wildcats showed no such mercy, however, and dropped only 22 games in the course of the match.

Davidson dominated Marshall without missing junior Amy McNeilis, who usually plays number one singles. McNeilis sat out both the Marshall and Presbyterian matches with a hamstring injury. She expects to play in today’s match at Appalachian State. Sophomore Angela Rudert, Davidson’s number seven player, displayed Davidson’s depth by taking McNeilis’ place against Marshall and tearing through her opponent 6-2, 6-1.

The next day, Davidson battled daylight savings time and the second-ranked, three-time conference champion Tennessee-Chattanooga squad. As Davidson was ranked third in the conference, this match held a lot of importance in determining the seeds for the upcoming conference tournament. Senior captain Debbie Podolin was the first off the courts with a 6-3, 6-2 win at the number four position. At number two, sophomore Marion Stone quickly followed, winning 6-1, 6-3. Number one McNeilis joined them (6-3, 6-2) to help cheer on freshman Virginia Hall at number three, who played her best match of the season when she took the next two sets 6-2, 6-4.

In the other singles matches, sophomore Jane Price won easily at number six, 6-2, 6-1 while sophomore Alice Stubbs lost a tough setter at number five, 7-6, 6-7, 6-0. With the overall match already decided, Davidson began their less domineering doubles. The number two doubles team of Stone and Stubbs were Davidson’s only victors. Nonetheless, the upset victory pushed Davidson up in the conference standings.

Davidson again needed only the singles matches in beating Presbyterian. The Wildcats sandwiched straight-set wins by Podolin (6-0, 6-1), Stubbs (6-2, 6-2), and Price (6-1, 6-0) between two gutty comebacks by Stone (1-6, 6-2, 6-2) and sophomore Martha Johnson (4-6, 6-1, 7-5) to secure the match. Add Davidson’s two doubles wins and you get an easy 7-1 win.

The winning continued last week as the team thumped A.S.U. and Western Carolina by matching 8-1 scores. Yesterday, the ‘Cats finished the winning tear as they triumphed over Guilford. Coach Caroline Brown feels the recent winning streak has Davidson peaking just in time for the conference tournament. “The Davidson women’s tennis team is poised to make a run at the title,” Brown said. “We’ve gained momentum and I feel very optimistic about winning the conference.”

By BRUCE SARKISIAN

Less than stellar play around the greens caused the golf team to perform worse than expected in recent tournaments. April 2 and 3 at Winthrop College in Rock Hill, the Wildcats placed ninth of fifteen teams in a weak field. Bad weather conditions hampered play, and all scores were high. The medalist for the Cats was Craig Carlock, with Gates Grainger and Sean O’Neil close behind.

On a more encouraging note Wednesday, in tournament play, the team placed near the top of the pack at the Gallagher Trails Golf Course in Gastonia. The Cats turned in their lowest tournament score of the year with Sean O’Neil leading, followed by Grainger and Carlock. The team is now gearing up for its final tournament of the season, the Southern Conference tourney at Raintree Country Club in Charlotte April 21 and 22. The team will practice every day in Charlotte for the next week and a half, hoping to better its finish of the past two years, last and second to last, respectively. Furman is the favorite in the tournament, with all other spots up for grabs.