Friday, April 24, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN
11

Football looks forward to game, another season
By STUART RAWSON

With the Wildcats coming off an 0-9 record in 1986, Coach Vic Gatto looks forward to 1987 as a chance to unify his first two recruiting classes. With eight offensive starters and six defensive starters returning, the Wildcats will work hard to improve in their first year of affiliation in the Colonial League.

Recruiting has gone well for Coach Gatto and his staff of nine coaches, which includes the addition of Larry Story as the new Offensive Coordinator. Story was formerly the Offensive Coordinator of the New Jersey Generals, where he directed Herschel Walker. So far, the Cats have signed 30 freshmen for 1987 and hope to sign at least five more before the May 1 deadline.

Spring practice culminates this Saturday with the annual Spring Game at 4:30 p.m. The Cats will battle about 35 faithful alumni as part of Alumni Weekend. Coach Gatto cites Saturday’s game as “important to the players as individuals.” Gatto deems spring practice as “a time to win the starting job.” He hopes it will be a chance for the players to “go out and have a good time.”

The Cats will be without the services of freshman quarterback Peter Hughes on Saturday. Hughes received a minor concussion in practice last Wednesday.

Women's tennis ends on strong note
By WHIT WILKS

The women’s tennis team impressively concluded its inaugural season in the Southern Conference this past weekend at the conference tournament in Asheville. The Lady Cats turned in a very solid second-place performance as they outscored all opponents except perennial power Furman.

Amy McNelis (no. 1), Marion Stone (no. 2), Virginia Hall (no. 3), Debbie Podolin (no. 4), and Jane Price (no. 6) all earned second-place finishes in singles play. Alice Stubbs (no. 5) placed fifth in her division. Consistency was the name of the game on the doubles side, as all three teams placed third for the Cats.

This marks the end of the team’s first full season under Division I status. The squad, under the direction of Caroline Brown, handled the transition in exemplary fashion, and the tournament served as an effective gauge of the team’s strength relative to other S.C. foes. All conference opponents, with the exception of Furman, were handled easily by the Cats during the season.

The future is very promising, as all seeded players except Debbie Podolin return next year. With a little improvement and lots of hard work, 1987-88 could be the year the Cats clear the final hurdle and claim the title of champion.

Golf ends with hopes for next season
By BRUCE SARKISIAN

The Wildcat golf team, while it bettered its overall score from last year’s tournament, could finish no higher than seventh in the Southern Conference Tournament held Monday and Tuesday at Raintree Country Club in Charlotte. Team captain Craig Carlock attributed the team’s poor finish to the quality of the field and the inconsistency of Wildcat golfers.

The golfers played 18 holes Monday and 36 holes Tuesday under difficult conditions. Raintree proved to be a challenging layout, with only two par fours under 400 yards.Carlock was the team’s medalist, with Gates Grainger, Sean O'Neil, Tom Goodrum, and Tyler Long following close behind. The University of Tennessee-Chattanooga took away the team title, with Western Carolina winning in the individual medalist category. Carlock, while discouraged about the team’s performance this week, is optimistic about next year’s team. The Cats will lose only one senior, Tyler Long, with the rest of the team made up of sophomores and freshmen. Carlock also mentioned that there is a healthy number of good golfers in next year’s freshman class. In addition, the mandatory practices instituted this year did not show significant results, but “will pay off in the long run,” the captain said.

Hughes is a freshman standout on the Wildcat baseball team. Gatto sees Hughes as the offensive key on next season’s squad. He passed for 473 yards last season in several starting assignments. Also important to the offensive unit will be the play of Mike Gross and Robert Sickles at wide receiver, a position Gatto deems to be very strong, and the running of Brian Kelly and Aaron Edwards, two strong runners who saw extensive play last season.

Coach Gatto’s biggest concern in 1987, his third year as head coach, will be the defensive unit. He viewed the Wildcats' inability to stop opponents’ offense as a key in the Cats' poor performance last season. The coaching staff will concentrate their interest first and foremost on the development of a strong defense, hurt by the loss of team captain Marcus Allen. The small number of players in spring practice allowed the coaching staff to switch players into different positions, presenting them with the chance to place players where they are better suited but had not received much playing time. The defense will be led in 1987 by Ken Nazemetz, who was third on the team in tackles last year with 73, and Howard Humphries, who was second in 1986 with 78. Coach Gatto also added that several outstanding recruits would step in and contribute significantly. Two in particular, Ryan Roberson, a 6’2”, 215 lb. outside linebacker from Sanford, N.C., and Tony Hubbard, a 6’3”, 215 lb. linebacker, were both sought after by Division I schools including the ACC. Gatto hopes these two can help fill the positions vacated by Marcus Allen’s graduation and Cole Thomason’s departure.

Finally, Coach Gatto added, “We will be competitive in the Colonial League and we’re excited about playing Princeton in Charlotte. Overall, we have an excellent schedule.”

CHARLOTTE AREA RESIDENTS
Camp Counselors needed for summer day camp. Lead and guide boys and girls ages 7-12 in physical, mental, social, and spiritual development. Activities include archery, riflery, swimming, arts & crafts, singing, nature study, and others. High school juniors and seniors, college students, teachers, and coaches should apply. For application or information call or write Eagle Rock Camp, One Thunderbird Lane, Clover, S.C., 29710, 803-831-2121 (Charlotte local).

SUMMER SUITS and SPORTCOATS
We've a great selection of Poplin and seersucker suits by Haspel as well as silk coats and blended fabric suits by fine makers.
Apparel for Men and Women
Downtown Mooresville
Mon-Thurs. 9-5
Fri. 9-6
Main St. Davidson