The New Magi

It is dusk. The sun has tipped backward
behind the old town hall. Inside the patterned
windows of the church, candles nod to candles
until it seems the world is only light
and festive voices singing “Silent Night.”

Out of the dark the siren wails, once,
twice, a third time, and grinding gears
disturb the “all is bright,” while somewhere
in another town a black man in a stocking cap
folds quilts around himself to stop the night.

Out of the dark the siren wails and somewhere
in another town a woman flushes yesterday’s news
from under the restroom door and a red-haired
girl with shrouded eyes holds out her hand
to strangers walking through the station’s
swinging doors. Where is the star that calls you,
black man? Where is the star that seeks you, woman?
Where is the star that lifts you, shrouded girl?

Walk to us, now, over the battered highways.
Walk to us slowly over the rutted roads.
Walk to the siren’s wail, and the grunting sound
of fire in the night. Throw open the church’s door.
Walk with your papers and your quilts and the sorrow
in your eyes, bringing your gifts past the carpet
of our candles to the manger’s straw. Kneel and turn
and bid us follow with our light up the long aisle,
out, out into the grace of the beckoning night.

“Do you recall the season of the winds?”
With that voice shimmering like crystal chimes
echoing cold and distant.
The time when night’s disease did blight
our days
and dawn was always a dying thing.

On the eve of an imminent storm
when the radiant Sun-song was stilled;
the tongue of light was severed and lay wriggling
in the arid dust.

You lay awake under the wind’s creaking anguish,
expecting the promise of rain
to blow through the curtains—
only the smell of decaying hours.

“Is it raining yet?”
No, only the wind,
the cold wind.

“I can no longer hear the music of the chimes.”
The still wind.
“Does it not mean something?”
The crippled, unforgiving wind.

The lights flicker.
A withered wraith heaves a cough,
while unnamed things shudder in the forgotten hours
before light.

“Did you lock the windows?”
The storms threaten through the thickness of dusk.
“Do you think it will rain tonight?”
With that mausoleum voice—dry
and thin.
It will never rain again.

John Gillikin ‘89

Rachel Nation