Sam Ragan Discusses Poetry and Poetics
By SUDEEP SEN

Sam Ragan is the poet laureate of North Carolina. He was this year’s judge for the Vereen Bell Creative Writing Awards and one of the three invitees, along with Georgia Senator Wyche Fowler and Cyrus Vance, at the Spring Awards Convocation. The following is a conversation between Ragan, Professor Anthony Abbott, the creative writing teacher at Davidson, and Sudeep Sen, a student at Davidson who was the second prize winner of the Vereen Bell this year.

SUDEEP SEN: How does it feel to be among the students as a renowned poet laureate?

SAM RAGAN: Well, I never really leave the students. I try to stay in touch with them as often as possible because I feel that it is one way of keeping oneself young. I do some teaching from time to time in various colleges and universities and lecture as much as I can. I have two or three other jobs as an editor, journalist, and of course write and talk about poetry whenever I find a free hour or a free day.

SEN: I have seen here and back home in my country in India, the growth of these so-called poetic cliques who, for all practical purposes, refuse to encourage anyone outside their cliques and just pat each other's backs.

RAGAN: Unfortunately that exists, but I don’t feel that exists in North Carolina. Among the writers I know, they are just as pleased at the publication or the success of a fellow writer as with their own work. And I am sure you (Prof. Abbott), have noticed the same thing.

PROF. ABBOTT: Sure!

RAGAN: You can find these cliques in places like New York, Los Angeles, other major cities. They seem to huddle together and no matter what you write — freeze out anyone else, but I haven’t found that in this state or anywhere in the South.

SEN: How important is it for any artist (more specifically a poet) to be recognized? And if it is important, how important are the mechanics of the situation?

ABBOTT: There are two different kinds of recognition, national and regional. It is a lot easier to get regional recognition than national. Writers in the South do a lot more reading in their area. Do you think that’s true?

RAGAN: That’s right.

ABBOTT: ...whereas these writers may not be well known in New York, Boston, or Chicago.

RAGAN: Getting published now is very difficult and takes a lot of money. I really think the future of publishing as far as creative writing is in the regional press and the academic community. Really it is here some of the best works are being produced.

SEN: So, as a poet, how impeding do you think is the commercial world?

RAGAN: Well, unfortunately I don’t know any poet who can make a living off poetry and that has been true through the times. Even Robert Frost, who was America’s number one hit, never could make a living off poetry. He had a farm, sold real estate, and did a little bit of everything.

SEN: What do you think are the recent trends in writing? How do you think has the growth or even deviation from a particular form been? Do you think it has evolved, where does it stand now?

RAGAN: I think we have seen a movement towards realism in American literature and particularly poetry in the past quarter of a century. I don’t know whether it is a fad or a long-term trend towards realism. The language is perhaps more geared to everyday life.

SEN: Judging from a more conventional standpoint and the..._The way poetry is written nowadays and the way it is going to be written... even snapshots from telephone directories or punch lines from advertisements or films have been anthologized in poetry volumes. What are your impressions about these?

RAGAN: I don’t pay much attention to these. That’s all like contemporary paintings. I think if you take poetry seriously, there are guidelines. These modern fads are not meant to be taken seriously. They are obviously not poetry, or art.

SEN: Since you have brought it up, certain people are of the firm belief that if you write ‘free verse,’ which is what most people write nowadays, you ought to master the conventional verse forms. And now what has happened is (both from personal experience and from the other young people who write), we being in the present-day society, we have never written ‘naturally’ in metered and structured verse forms as we have always seen free verse ever since we were born. With that in mind, what do you have to say to this old school of thought?

RAGAN: I think we have gone beyond the strictures of highly structured poetry. You must remember that a lot of rhyme was a fad at one time which happened to have lasted for a long time. I think most poets have gone beyond that and I think this is going to last, too.

SEN: Another trend in poetry which might be termed as gimmicks by some people, but nevertheless it is a very important movement and innovation in writing. It is the use of visual metaphors. In concrete or structuralist poetry, the typographical arrangement of the poem on paper is as important as the literary metaphorical images.

RAGAN: ...but I think that is secondary, although I see a lot of that happening and I suppose a lot of that is due to the presence of computers and word processors.

SEN: If you really go back to the people who experimented with it and started it, like Guillaume Apollinaire, a modern European poet, we learn that he never had a computer, or even May Swenson’s Iconographs which rely purely on visual structure. Do you think that this is an important growth in poetry and added significantly to the value of poetry?

RAGAN: I am not sure whether it has or not. I still think that substance is more important than form and these typographical gymnastics are secondary to the content. The feeling, the idea, the choice of words — that is important.

SEN: The two other aspects I was wondering about are ‘mood’ and ‘spontaneity’ in poetry. There are two ways to attempt to write a poem. One is “the spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings” as according to Wordsworth; the other is a conscious effort to write every day and consequently sharpen your skills. What are your views on poetry writing, more so for poets writing today?

RAGAN: I think each poem describes its own talent. I think it was Theodore Roethke who said that “any poem is more an act of compulsion than an act of will.” So I think it’s really got to start inside you and certainly in my case, a poem is written a long time before it is committed to paper. It takes time for the feelings and ideas to gel, get to the place they should be. Spontaneity is just one way, you have to wait and let it happen. I am not sure whether you sit at 10 o’clock every day and say that I am going to write a poem... you may very well write something, but it may not be very good. I am not sure whether you can force it.

SEN: I am not sure either, at least personally speaking. Though I know some people who write very well in spite of writing compulsively every day. Of course, they write a lot of bad stuff, but then they have an enormous vari-

Continued to page 9