3 i sees - Monday, March 30, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN.

News Shorts

Following a recommendation by the arts facility planning group (AFPG), Davidson’s Board of Trustees recently selected Graham Gund Associates of
Cambridge, MA to pick a site for and design a new campus visual arts facility. Discussions will begin soon between
Gund and college officials to detail further plans of the new building. The proposed 25,000 square foot facility will include
increased studio and office space, lecture rooms, a slide library, and a new art gallery. Although no fund-raising campaign or
construction schedule has yet been planned, more than 2 million dollars has been pledged towards construction costs. Gund was one
of twenty-five firms considered for the job.

Elections for SGA Class Senators will be held this Tuesday. The following are the winners of last week's elections:
SGA President: Conrad Doenges.
SGA Vice-President: Lee Nagendran.
Review Board: Joe B. Martin.
Council on Campus and Religious Life: Harry Lee, Holly Sparks.

Student Conduct Council: Craig Matlock, Barbara Matheny.
Honor Council — Class of ’88: Becky Benton, Eric Ogden, Richard Tankard.
Honor Council — Class of ’89: John Cock, John Reel, Bruce Sarkisian.
Honor Council — Class of ’90: Chip Allen, D.J. Snell, Thad Stidham.

The B Company, 5th Regiment of the Scabbard and Blade Society at Davidson College has elected a new chain of
command and new members. The new command is: Captain, Ted Bowling, 1st Lieutenant, Tim Heinze, 2nd Lieutenant, Kathy Womble, and
1st Sergeant, Jody Minus. The new members are Dan Michaelis, John Black, James Harris, Jeff Muir, Drew Peel, Eric Peterson,
John Scherer, Richard Sheridan, and Rufus Timberlake. Material contributed by Jody Minus.

The Dean of Students released the following report of Honor Code and Code of Responsibility violations during the past two
terms. Two cases involving honor violations were heard by the Honor Council. One person was found not guilty; the other
was found guilty and required to perform work which will equip the student to avoid future trouble with plagiarism. The
Honor Council also heard two Code of Responsibility cases. The students were found guilty; one was required to take steps
toward reparation, and the other was put on social probation. The Dean of Students heard four honor cases. Three ended
in two-term suspensions and one in a one-term suspension. The Dean has dealt with nine Code of Responsibility violations which
involved alcohol abuse, vandalism, firecrackers, fighting, and tampering with fire alarms. Two persons have lost the privilege of participating in
room lottery; other penalties involved social probation, community service, fines, reparation, and censure.

In the past two weeks, we have had numerous larcenies from Gym locker rooms L-15 and L-21. It would be
advisable not to leave any valuables in your locker. We have also had a rash of larcenies from the baseball
field storage shed. Items such as baseball bats, pitching machine, etc., valued at $2,000 have been taken. I would like
to ask the residents of Akers and Knox Dorms, especially those rooms that face the baseball field, to glance out
at night and notify us at 5131 anytime they see any lights or activity in that area. Material contributed by
Rick Moore, Crime Prevention Officer.

Beyond Davidson

Scandals continue to plague Bakker and Brandt
By KATHERINE PRICE

Headlining events for March 19-26:

Across the Nation — PTL leader Jim Bakker, known for his profitable television ministry, stunned the nation on Friday by
announcing his resignation. Stating that his resignation resulted from an “evil conspiracy” to overtake PTL, Bakker admitted paying blackmailers to
withhold information about a sexual encounter with Jessica Hahn that occurred seven years ago. The total amount paid may have
been as much as $265,000. Along with news of Bakker’s resignation came reports that his wife Tammy is suffering froma
drug dependency. Rev. Jerry Falwell assumed chairmanship of PTL, while Rev. Richard Dortch inherited the presidency. White House Chief of
Staff Howard Baker said he felt President Reagan had suffered the worst of the Iran/Contra crisis. Reagan stated that he
would not choose to follow such a course of action again. This comment came as plans were being made to
give immunity to Col. Oliver North and former C.I.A. Director William Casey, both of whom were involved in the sale
of American arms to Iran. The Senate reached an agreement Thursday to start procedures against the arms-deal affair. Meanwhile, Senate
Democrats failed to block a filibuster on a bill which would send aid to the Nicaraguan contras by six votes.
House Democrats had already voted against further aid. The closeness of the votes, however, signals difficulties for future contra aid
proposals. On Monday, the U.S. announced a major military exercise about to be conducted in Central America as practice against
any Nicaraguan invasion of Honduras. Former Secretary of State Alexander Haig announced his candidacy for U.S. president on Tuesday. He
said he will try to portray himself as a leader who can take charge. The House and Senate both voted
to allow states to raise the speed limit to 65 miles per hour on interstate highways. President Reagan is expected
to veto the highway bill, which he claims is extravagant, and is seeking congressional support. A new plan would expand
the coastal areas receiving protection from the U.S. government. The plan is intended to restrict federal funds used for risky
construction projects.

Around the World — The U.S. announced Tuesday that it would assume a protectorate role for Kuwaiti ships traveling through
the Persian Gulf. Reportedly, Kuwait requested U.S. and Soviet aid, but U.S. officials expressed confidence that Kuwait would accept the
U.S. proposal. Former West German Chancellor Willy Brandt resigned Tuesday as chairman of the opposition Social Democratic Party. Leading up
to his decision to resign was controversy over his appointment of 30-year-old Margarita Mathiopoulos as the party's spokeswoman. In the
Philippines, a land mine killed 19 Philippine soldiers. Five days later, on Monday, President Corazon Aquino announced the end to
her peace initiatives with the rebel forces, and pledged to use the “sword of war” against radicals of the left
and right. Aquino cited military force as the only available option to ending the conflict, calling social and economic measures
failures. South African Archbishop Desmond Tutu urged opposition leader Oliver Tambo of the African National Congress to participate in a
cease-fire. ANC leaders refused to consider a cease-fire as South African government officials claimed negotiations would be impossible without an
end to the hostilities. The United Democratic Front, South Africa's largest opposition group, sees the upcoming May 6 elections (which
exclude blacks) as “farcical.” Israel declared limited sanctions against South Africa, saying they are a reaction to the apartheid system.

The Soviet Union has agreed to comply with U.S. requests for a reduction of the Soviet staff at the United
Nations. Such a move would likely prevent a repetition of last year’s diplomatic expulsion war between the two superpowers. On
the matter of arms control, Soviet negotiator Karpov accused the U.S. of backing out of agreements on European medium-range missiles
and bluffing on the “zero option” proposal. Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze and Secretary of State George Shultz are to
meet next month to discuss arms control. While it is reported that the Soviets would like to withdraw their troops
from Afghanistan, other sources say that Soviet troop presence is actually increasing. Rebel camps in Pakistan were raided for the
second time in two days by Afghan government warplanes. The Revolutionary Justice Organization delayed the execution of Normandin, a Frenchman
who has been held hostage by the pro-Syrian group.
