Monday, September 28, 1987
THE BEV RONAN

High technology language lab opens in Chambers
By TOBY TRUOG

During the summer, the Personnel and Administrative Services Office moved out of the south basement of Chambers and construction began
on the new Oeland Language Center. Workers completed construction during the first few days of school. The new lab, which
contains 30 listening stations as well as videotape machines and monitors, was funded by a generous gift from Raymond W.
’25 and Mary Oeland and by a grant from the Duke Endowment.

The lab is geared towards further expansion with regard to up-and-coming technological advances. Planners of the center hope to eventually
incorporate the use of video disks and computers for instruction in the lab. “This lab’s main new feature is that
it is moving in the direction of video, shifting away a little bit from a speaking lab and a little
more into a listening lab, in accordance with recent pedagogical studies,” notes Dr. Hansford Epes, Professor of German and Humanities
and Chairman of the Faculty Advisory Council.

High-quality equipment, such as Pioneer and Tandberg cassette players and Sony VCRs and monitors, replace the dated equipment which had
been used in the old lab on the third floor of Chambers. As well as using state-of-the-art equipment, the new
language lab is aesthetically pleasing. “The idea behind the design of the new lab is that the more attractive the
facility, the more the students will want to use it,” says Epes.

As chairman of the F.A.C., Epes has played an active role in the design and organization of the center. During
the planning stages, a questionnaire was distributed to both faculty and students in order to facilitate the planning of the
lab and to make it responsive to student and faculty needs. Epes believes that the lab will not only meet
the expressed desires of the faculty and students but will also prove to be an invaluable aid in the study
of language at Davidson.

“The language lab is a real opportunity for help and growth in the Davidson language program. This type of facility
is what the faculty and students have indicated they need.” Epes notes that the center “will allow the teacher to
determine when and how fast each lesson is taught. The faculty and students will be dictating to the language lab
instead of the lab telling the faculty how quickly to teach.”

According to Vice-President for Institutional Advancement John Griffith, the Oeland gift was motivated by the Oelands’ “interest that the Davidson
student is well-rounded and well-prepared to enter the world. The Oelands feel as though it is through growth in foreign
language development that a student is able to do this.”

The Oeland Language Center is open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. Mondays
through Thursdays and from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Fridays. It is closed on Saturdays and open from 2
p.m. to 5 p.m. and from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. on Sundays. Either a professional staff person or a
work-study student will be at the front desk to aid students at all times.

Chaplain Charlie Summers to leave Davidson
By MUADI MUKENGE

Rev. Charles A. Summers, the chaplain at Davidson College for the past six years, will leave his position at the
end of September to assume the pastorate of Seigle Avenue Church in Charlotte. Summers is excited about his return to
parish ministry. “Work is never finished in any one place. It’s part of God’s plan,” he says.

The new position is not on unfamiliar territory. Summers has occasionally preached at the interracial church and has been active
in its programs — including a hot-lunch program for the elderly and an after-school program for teens. Seigle Avenue is
located across the street from the Piedmont Courts housing project. Summers sees his new call as a chance to actively
work for improvements of the social conditions in the inner city. “There areproblems in the city. I’m going in response
to these problems. I’m also going because the congregation has already made major contributions to Presbyterian economic groups. It has
the ability to demonstrate Christian fellowship as one which crosses barriers — whether rich or poor, black or white, male
or female — all have a role in the life and leadership of the church.”

Summers, a 1972 graduate of Davidson, returned to his alma mater in 1982 as chaplain. Prior to his appointment, the
school had been without a full-time chaplain for eight years. “I had to reinvent the role of the chaplain/pastor,” he
stated.

Under Summers’ tenure, the major responsibilities of the Chaplain’s Office have consisted of much more than personal counseling. In December,
he takes students on Awareness Weekend — a service mission to inner-city Charlotte. He encourages students to participate in volunteer
work through the Staley summer stipend. Summers also leads study groups and works with all of the campus Christian groups
as well as serving as advisor to the Y-Stud.

Summers is proud that a course on nuclear arms evolved from Davidson’s celebration of the Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday.
The Chaplain’s Office has sponsored speakers and programs to raise the issue of racial awareness, he said. “The gospel sing
was a pinnacle of that effort. Brenda Tapia (assistant chaplain) has certainly added a great deal to racial awareness and
Davidson is fortunate to have her to continue to do so.”

Summers also organizes the annual faculty/staff retreat which is designed to strengthen and instill a sense of community among members
of the faculty and staff. Summers noted that “People may work in the same building but never get a chance
to get to know one another. The retreat allows everyone to talk, and start a friendship.”

The work of the Chaplain’s Office, however, can at times be frustrating as well as challenging. Summers often feels that
religion does not play as integral a part of campus life as it should. “It is an increasingly secular environment
so that religious life is more of an extra-curricular activity and not seen as integral to life in higher education.
It’s harder for the chaplain to be seen as a person who is here for the whole campus.”

Reaction to Summers' resignation is two-fold. Tapia, who also serves as the director of Love of Learning (an academic and
personal development program for minorities), expresses her happiness for Summers’ new opportunity, but says he will be greatly missed. “Davidson
hasn’t really taken advantage of all that Charlie has to offer and is losing a rare person. Having worked with
the church [Seigle Avenue] I am aware of its problems. They are blessed. The ministry will be enhanced now that
he will be full-time.” She continues, “Davidson will have a hard time finding someone to fill his shoes.”

Her sentiments were echoed by a colleague who said to Summers, “Congratulations and damn.” Tapia will serve as interim chaplain
until a replacement is found by a search committee President Kuykendall has yet to appoint. For Tapia, taking Summers’s responsibilities
will be a “stretch of self.” “With Love of Learning, counseling to minorities, and the chaplaincy, I'll have three roles
in one person,” she added.

Summers stated that “I hope that I have laid a foundation which the next chaplain will build upon so the
ministry can become an important part of campus life.” Summers will not, however, do a complete disappearing act. “I’ll still
be living in Davidson and you’ll see me around at various events.”

Summers attended Louisville Presbyterian Seminary in Kentucky. He pastored at the Sixth Presbyterian Church in Washington, D.C. for five years
before accepting the position of chaplain at Davidson. Summers is married and has three children.

The Davidsonian currently has paid circulation and business positions available. For more information call Keith at 6415.
