10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
John Gathings, Editor Emeritus
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Jim Dillon, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Mark Chen, Features Editor
Lee Eichelberger, Inside Art Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Susan Wilkins, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Sesquicentennial

As Davidson begins its long, and perhaps overblown, Sesquicentennial Celebration, we feel pride in the tremendous success achieved by our school. Yet we urge modesty and have some questions regarding Celebration plans.

Currently, Davidson will play its 1987 Homecoming game against Princeton in Charlotte. The reasoning behind having the game in Charlotte lies in drawing more of both Princeton and Davidson alumni to the festivities.

If one considers the realities of Homecoming instead of the ideals, the undesirability of this plan becomes apparent. First, Davidson students, like college students everywhere, include the drinking of large amounts of alcohol among their Homecoming activities. Second, Davidson students as a whole are notorious for the lack of support they show for their football team. Third, alumni return to see the school, not the football game. None of these points are appealing descriptions. Ignoring them, however, will not cause them to go away. Forty miles of driving by Homecoming celebrants will not make the highways any safer if alcohol levels at Homecoming maintain normal levels. If a 100-yard walk keeps people away from the football games, a 20-mile trip certainly will keep students in their Patterson Court parties all afternoon.

Having the game in Charlotte is simply an attempt to draw more attention to Davidson's birthday bash. If the letter of two weeks ago concerning Davidson fans is any indication, most people in Charlotte either do not care about or even hate Davidson College. The only people who care about Davidson being 150 years old are at Davidson. Why not keep the game amongst those that care?

Finally, Davidson should consider its religious ties and restrain from the sin of pride. The senior class, for example, should tone down its indulgence in being the Sesquicentennial class. For their class gift, the Sesquicentennial Class is giving a scholarship named, you guessed it, the Sesquicentennial Class Scholarship. Being a member of the Sesquicentennial Class is a fluke of birthdates, not a meritorious achievement. The classes of 1986 and 1988 are every bit as good as the Sesquicentennial Class; they were only born a year early or late.

Congratulations, Davidson College, on being so old. Just remember to keep the noise down at your party lest ye wake any wrathful neighbors.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, David Bearce, Betsy Bryan, Maria Douglas, Wendy Dunn, Laura Gabel, Penelope Hughes, Lucia Kendall, Aaron Levine, Sarah Longely, Ed Matthews, Tom Moore, Ray Thornton, David Van Pelt, David Williams, Ted Wilson.

Features Staff: Lee Eichelberger, Jessica Fisher, Scott Goodwin, Chris Hargrove, Steve Mank, Diana Miller.

Sports Staff: Rick Case, Boyd Coasins, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wilkins.

Photography Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda Highie, Penelope Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyons Lee, Matt Yaun.

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill.

Production Staff: Beth Bryson, Kim Craig, Amelia Fox, Gates Grainger, Robert Grzeszczak, Pete Mangone, Jamie McAden, Tom Moore, Ibby Sowell, Kathryn Strickland, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yarbrough.

Circulation Staff: Lucia Kendall.

Wednesday, January 28, 1987

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cloudt's view

TONIGHT, OUR SERIES ON CRIME TAKES US TO DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, WHERE

TELL US, MISS, IS THEPROBLEM BAB? “AIN’T NOTHIN’ YOU CAN DO ‘BOUT IT... YEAH. TOWNIES! TERRIBLE “HEY, I KNOW HER! SHE WORKS AT THE LOCAL GRAMMAR, QUICK STORE! KIDS—ALWAYS STEALIN’ THE DAVIDSONIAN

HOW DO THEY KNOW?

Insinuations

To the Editors:

Sharon Spong’s article on pornography raised some important issues about advertising at Davidson. I agree with her that the issue is extremely important. But, I’m not sure that she has taken her point far enough. The problem of fliers and T-shirts seeming to advocate violence toward women has been apparent since I have been a student at Davidson. But what are the concerned students to do when raising the issue invites only hostility from those who print the fliers or indifference of college administrators?

Two examples come immediately to mind. About two years ago the Lacrosse team printed T-shirts with the logo “It takes a quick stick to beat a tight crease.” Clearly, this logo implies violence toward women. However, when confronted with the violence, the team members did not see the problem. Even a member of the administration said that he saw nothing wrong since the terms “quick stick” and “tight crease” could be used to describe the game.

The second instance involves the Pi Kappa Alpha sale of hot dogs. Last spring, the advertisements stated at the bottom “... and so I gave her my Pike Dog between the buns.” I won't analyze the meaning here, I think that it is clear. Again, the administration, although not completely indifferent, refused to say anything to the fraternity. In fact, two women were told to handle the situation themselves. The fraternity was not only completely uncooperative, they printed the same quotation on the very next flier.

I do not want to single out these two organizations (along with the Sig Eps) because this type of advertising is common. For example, last spring the KA “Over the Hump Party” depicted something bouncing between what gave the appearance to be a prone woman’s breasts. The KA’s also had a poster this year with a bolt being driven into a screaming nut. The list goes on with other fraternities and even women’s eating houses advertising with, if not explicitly violent, certainly tasteless fliers.

I have been told by many people that we are overreacting; that if we bring up these issues the problem will only get worse because the signs and T-shirts get attention. Maybe we are overreacting a very little bit, but we need to try to balance the scale. If issues are not forced, nothing will ever change. The organizations of Davidson College should begin to read everything that their fliers say. Are they depicting violence or rape? If so, maybe the flier could be changed. I’m not advocating censorship. Davidson students are supposed to be mature responsible adults and I am asking them to take responsibility.

Sarah Smith

To the Editors:

Dear Captain Pike Dog,

Please note that the Davidson College Rape Crisis is not unappreciative of the free publicity you gave to us in the latest account of your misadventures. Your “subtle” reference to the role-play discussion attended by your fraternity brothers and the women of Rusk last November indicate that our endeavor to stimulate thoughtfulness and concern over the issue of acquaintance rape was indeed a success. Why else would memories of the event linger for so long upon your conscience?

It is said that you are distressed over your inability to form intimate relationships with members of the opposite sex, but I hardly think it’s our fault, or the fault of any other campus women’s organization, that you can't get a date. Could it be that you suffer from chronic halitosis? Maybe charm school would help.

With all due respect,
Kim Williams