10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Mark Chen, Keith Finch, Editors
Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, John Gathings, Editors Emeriti
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor
Eric Lam, Associate Editor
David Williams, Associate Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
John Barrow, Jim Dillon, News Editors
Tom Moore, Features Editor
Sudeep Sen, Inside Art Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Jeff Loser, Brian Mouré, Advertising Managers
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Liberal arts values

After a month of bizarre weather, we are finally having the kind of days for lying outside and forgetting spring term. Unfortunately, spring is also the time when important events happen. The campus is busy yet again with tourists and other occasional visitors. The trustees are having one of their three meetings of the year this weekend. In response, the Students Against Apartheid have given them a statement. Next Tuesday the faculty will vote on the curriculum and the calendar. Most students are heading for the beach.

Probably the most important event is the curriculum proposal going before the faculty. We have all probably heard about the change to semesters, but few of us may realize what is included with that change. The curriculum proposal does more than change a few area requirements and adjust our curriculum to semesters. It recommends changes in the major requirements for every department.

So what do we have with this avalanche of new ideas? The proposal optimistically divides itself into three parts. In the first part, students would go through a core curriculum. In the second part, looking at different areas, they would choose a major. In the third, students would concentrate on topics and develop more autonomy in their studies, all under faculty supervision. We would then have some kind of liberal arts ideal. Or would we?

What this proposal seems to emphasize is specialization. We would specialize in the humanities. Then, once we had absorbed bite-sized portions of Plato or Chaucer or Freud, we would move on to a major. Once in the major, we would specialize again by developing a concentration. Then, to prevent ourselves from becoming too narrow-minded, we would specialize in an interdisciplinary seminar to be set up for us. In other words, we would take the whole world and assign each part of it a place on our course schedule.

Unfortunately, the proposal has little room for freedom. We have all experienced the recommendations of this proposal before. It reads like a high school curriculum. In my high school, we took x amount of English, x amount of math, x amount of etc., etc. As a freshman, I knew what courses I would have in the spring of my senior year. I also hoped that college would be different.

Perhaps liberal arts values can be taught. If business schools can teach ethics in their classes, then there is hope. But my own belief is that such values begin with the person. When given the freedom to explore, some people discover the world for themselves. Others remain uninterested. But even if you put both kinds in a humanities program, I think you would get the same results. Some would get interested in the material. Others would absorb it and then pass it through their system. A college can only develop what is in a person. It cannot create a person anew.

This proposal is not unique. There is a trend across this country to institutionalize such broad educations and perspectives. In the coming years, probably more of us will know the plot of the Aeneid or the nine circles of Dante’s Hell. But whether such training makes us more humane or less selfish is anybody’s guess. One sure benefit is that we will all become better players of Trivial Pursuit.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, David Bearce, Betsey Bryan, Maria Douglas, Wendy Dunn, Laura Gabel, Penelope Hughes, Lucia Kendall, George Kurani, Aaron Levine, Sarah Longely, Ed Matthews, Nelle McCorkle, Susan Pearsall, David Petranick.
Features Staff: Jennifer Hoffman, Michele Miller, Florence Snively.
Sports Staff: Ken Bogert, Matt Newsom, Bruce Sarkisian.
Photography Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda Higbie, Penelope Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, Matt Yaun.
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Michael Schill.
Production Staff: Pete Mangone, Tom Moore.
Circulation Staff: Laura Dodenhoff, Emilie Sebesta

Friday, May 1, 1987

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SOLICITING PROSTITUTES (MALE AND FEMALE), EMBEZZLE-
BABY GOSH, YOU'RE A TV EVANGELIST TOO.

Last Friday, a number of students and I handed out fact sheets on South Africa.and red ribbons to be worn in protest of apartheid. Before I start, I want to stress that this letter is not intended to have any political message; instead, I would like to share with you some of the responses given to us by Davidson alumni. First of all, let me point out that the overwhelming majority of alumni were very supportive or at least cordial in their disapproval. This letter is not intended to slander the Davidson alumni or cast any doubts upon their morals. There were a few comments made by a handful of alumni that I would like to share with you. One man stated that if I was against apartheid, then I was against old people. I am still trying to figure that one out. One man called us “Communists,” but that does not bother me. People have been calling me a Commie since I was 7 years old. Someone said we were “damned crazy” and that he supported apartheid. A lady stated that she supported the bloodshed caused by apartheid. One man was heard complaining that as students we had no right to protest; we should stick to our studies instead. The most upsetting comment came from a Davidson alumnus who, after turning down a ribbon against apartheid, was heard to say, “Those niggers deserve everything they get.” How can I respond to that? I think it is most distressing to me that those words came out of the mouth of a former Davidson student. It is distressing to realize that Davidson College and its fine education failed to open the mind of such a racist. Even though you might not share my political views and may even be ashamed of me for voicing my opinions, I hope you will agree that this type of racism, all types of racism, should be ended, whether they exist in South Africa or right here on our own campus.

Kevin Dunn
Class of 1989

Trimesters

I would like to address the issue concerning the possible change to a semester system. I question whether it is the wisest choice for a school like Davidson. Davidson is not like other schools that are on the semester system, and I think that is to its credit. It is very intense here, not only because of the way the academic calendar is set up, but because of the small size and relatively isolated location. Because of the size, students do not have to spend large amounts of time walking across campus or waiting for a bus to take them as students at large schools such as Cornell do. Our location, 30 minutes away from a city, means fewer distractions. There is a lot less available to do off campus than there would be at a school located in a large city such as Atlanta or Boston. Students at Davidson potentially have more time than students at larger institutions. Would the extra time that a semester system provides make students realize just how small and isolated Davidson really is?

A special quality about Davidson is the way the people here work together towards the common goal of excellence in education. The Honor Code and self-scheduled exams are two examples. Cutthroat competition that you hear about at Amherst does not exist here. There are few schools who work as well as ours do, and I wonder if they could sustain a trimester system. We have something special and should hold onto it as long as we can.

I also question why students have been indifferent to the possible change. The last time this issue was up for vote, the students were polled and voted against the change. Are students aware of how the change will affect them? For starters, each year students will take eight courses instead of nine. The four lost courses are equivalent to 40% of many majors. Courses will be more crowded and harder to get. There will be less time to experiment with and explore different majors. Science majors will have to double and triple up on lab courses. If the language requirement remains three courses, students will have to take a language for a year and a half. It will be harder to make up the credit if you take a term off.

People say that one purpose of college is to learn how to learn. Davidson not only teaches students how to learn, it teaches them how to produce under pressure, and to balance work with play, and it provides an excellent education at the same time. If students at Davidson prefer the trimester to semester system, they owe it to future Davidson students to try to keep it the way it is. And the only way to do that is to let the faculty know before next Tuesday, May 2, when they will vote on a change that would alter the Davidson experience.

Sincerely,
Valerie Graves