Friday, December 11, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

Superpower leaders

Headlining the news
November 27-December 10:
By KATHERINE PRICE

Around the World—U.S. President Reagan and Soviet leader Gorbachev signed an INF (Intermediate Nuclear Forces) treaty eliminating medium and shorter-range
nuclear weapons. The agreement, signed at the superpower summit meeting in Washington, is the world’s first treaty featuring nuclear weapons
reduction. American opponents of the reduction agreement fear that elimination of the weapons will leave Europe (where the majority of
the weapons are based) vulnerable to Soviet attack. Problems of verification and the Soviet advantage in conventional military forces are
also chief concerns. The summit agenda included discussions involving human rights and emigration, the Soviet presence in Afghanistan, and the
Iran/Iraq conflict in the Persian Gulf. No breakthroughs were made at the summit meeting on these issues, but leaders of
both superpowers spoke of hope for future progress.

In Haiti, the first presidential elections in thirty years were canceled last Sunday, amid violence which led to the deaths
of 34 people. The ruling military junta, led by Lt. Gen. Henri Namphy, dissolved the election council and has announced
that a new council will be chosen and sworn in on Saturday. Opposition leaders denounced actions of the military government
and demanded its resignation. The ruling military junta stated that new election rules would be published December 15. Opposition groups
have vowed to boycott the elections.

In the Philippines, government soldiers captured Col. Gregorio “Gringo” Honasan, an opposition leader who led an August uprising that almost
overthrew President Corazon Aquino’s administration. As a result of Honasan’s coup attempt in August, 53 people were killed. Honasan is
considered one of Aquino’s strongest opponents.

The ruling Nicaragua Sandinistas sent negotiators to meet with the opposition Contra leadership in the Dominican Republic. The talks, which
are part of the Central American peace plan of August 7, were mediated by Cardinal Obando. The Sandinista government continues
to insist that U.S./Nicaraguan negotiations are necessary to end the conflict. The U.S. supports the Contras.

In a related matter, the Sandinista government is holding under arrest American pilot James Jordan Denby, who they claim has
links to the CIA and Contra leader Calero. Denby’s plane was shot down in southern Nicaragua, near the Costa Rican
border. Denby may be tried in Nicaragua, as was American citizen Eugene Hasenfus last year.

South Korean President Chun Doo Hwan blamed North Korean communists for attempting to undermine the 1988 Olympics by causing the
disappearance of a Korean Air jetliner last Sunday. South Koreans believe the plane crashed, killing 115 people, because North Korean
terrorists planted a bomb.

Conflict continues in the Persian Gulf between Iran and Iraq, who have been at war since 1980. Iran has stated,
in UN-sponsored negotiations, that it will not agree to a cease-fire unless the UN recognizes Iraq as the aggressor.

Across the Nation—Inmates in an Atlanta, Ga. penitentiary reached an agreement last Thursday night, after a twelve-day uprising. Inmates had
held 89 people hostage in the prison while protesting U.S. treatment of Cubans. Cuban-born Roman Catholic Bishop Agustin Roman pleaded
with inmates to sign a pact ending the conflict. Agustin Roman had recently helped solve a similar crisis in Oakdale,
La.

The Senate Finance Committee voted unanimously for a two-year $23 billion tax increase which primarily would affect corporations. The tax
hike is likely to meet opposition from Reagan and congressional Democrats. The Senate offered the proposal as part of the
$76 billion deficit-reduction agreement. Meanwhile, the House of Representatives approved a $587 billion spending bill. A temporary extension for a
spending bill expires Dec. 16.

Chicago Mayor Harold Washington died last week of a heart attack. Eugene Sawyer was chosen to replace Washington, a decision
which angered many Washington supporters. Opponents fear Sawyer will not adequately represent black and minority interests.

James Burnley of North Carolina was sworn in as the new Secretary of Transportation. Burnley replaces Elizabeth Dole, who resigned
to devote herself to campaigning for her husband’s Republican presidential nomination.
