Friday, April 3, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Paris, Texas journeys into the American psyche
By BROOKE KNIGHT

Nastassja Kinski is not convincing as a Texan. That’s the only major criticism that can be said about Paris, Texas. Despite the fact that Kinski’s performance doesn’t make you believe her character, the movie succeeds. The action is centered on Travis (played by Harry Dean Stanton) and his slow assimilation back into the real world he left four years ago. We see Travis walking alone in the desert of Texas looking for water. He collapses and the shifty doctor attending him calls Travis’ brother Walt, who thought he had died years ago. We find out that Travis’ son Hunter was left at Walt’s doorstep by Jane (Kinski), Travis’ wife. Some kind of major trauma had blown this once-nuclear family apart. The story unfolds from there.

Travis is enigmatic: he cannot even figure himself out at the beginning. The knot of his character is untied as the knot of the story is untied. In the first part of the film, his mind is as much a void as the desert he aimlessly walks through. He seems to have been walking forever, and if it weren’t for his brother, he would have probably continued walking. He is not going toward anywhere, just away from somewhere. The story ends in Houston, epitome of order. By then, both Travis and the audience have made sense of what had gone on before. Travis and his son travel to Houston in search of Jane. (They find her of course, but that is the only predictable part of the film.) Finding Jane in a peep parlor being paid to live out strange men’s fantasies forces Travis to look at the reality he eschewed four years ago. The climax of the film comes when Travis and Jane talk through the one-way mirror intercom/telephone system: they open up but are still separated.

The whole movie, in fact, revolves around this separation/connection relationship. Travis is separated from society totally; Hunter is separated from his parents; Jane is separated from her husband and son. Who or what caused this separation and how things can or cannot be re-connected are the central questions in this mystery of the mind. Secondary to the separation/connection theme is a search for origins: Paris, Texas is where Travis thinks he was conceived (he has actually bought a lot there); Hunter is willing to search with Travis for his mother, from whom he came.

Continued from page 4

blocks, aiming at other players’ balls to knock them out of position, and even trying to hit and move the marker itself. “That’s what makes this game so fun,” says Rousset, “the picture is always changing.” Good positions can become terrible with just one toss.

Petanque is very popular on a social level as well as on a competitive one. According to Rousset, “More than 5 million families play in France, especially in the south.” The game is a favorite at picnics, and appeals to all ages, “Grandma and Grandpa as well as the children.” The leisurely pace of the game allows people time to relax and socialize.

Thierry Rousset is presently teaching a class of ten students through the Davidson Athletic Department. As Sudeep Sen put it, “I never knew one could get PE credit so easily!” Don’t be fooled, however; it’s harder than it looks. Rousset has also organized the Spring Petanque Tournament for staff, faculty, students, and interested members of the community. Response has been so overwhelming that he has divided the 23 teams registered into three leagues: the Major, the National, and the American Petanque leagues. Equipment for both the PE and the tournament has been donated by JB, one of the leading manufacturers in France.

After one week of competition, the Admissions office team, the “Fantom Fadams,” stand out with their impressive 13-0 victory over the “Computer Nerds.” Captain of the winning team, Gary Mason, has already set his sights on the championship. Roni Jennings, also a member of the “Fantom Fadams,” sums up the game well. “It’s just a real fun thing to do. It provides an opportunity to socialize, as well as a great excuse for being outside.” Davidson is well on its way to developing the skills required for the sport of petanque, though there’s no question who holds the true talent. As Thierry Rousset approached an afternoon game, one player appropriately remarked, “Here comes the expert!”

By MICHELE MILLER.

Line. Movement. Rhythm. The Joyce Trisler Danscompany celebrated the possibilities of dance Wednesday evening in Love Auditorium as part of the Davidson College Artists Series. The New York company combined classical and modern movement in a stunning repertoire of works choreographed by founder Joyce Trisler and Australian Gray Veredon and Sabatino Verlezza.Company continues its tradition of ballet-oriented dance infused with the expressive torso and parallel stance of modern dance. The first piece, “Dance for Six,” choreographed by Joyce Trisler, is set to excerpts from Vivaldi’s “La Cetra.” The movement is energetic and free-flowing, each section emerging beautifully from the one before it. A duet explores the erotic relationship of man to woman. The piece returns again and again to carefully-placed frieze-like positions; the dancers are viewed two-dimensionally.

The second piece, “Journey,” features soloist Regina Larkin dressed in a ghost-like white shift that flows around her, highlighting her movement and control. The eerie score by Charles Ives emphasizes the phantom-like quality of this piece, also choreographed by Trisler. Larkin conveyed her haunting message with trembling movement and fearful gesture.

The third piece, “Tobi Roppo,” premiered this year at Dartmouth College. This rhythmic piece, choreographed by Sabatino Verlezza, takes its cue from Kabuki theatre. “Tobi Roppo” literally translated means “flying in six directions.” The six dancers did indeed fly in all directions, portraying the necessary physical readiness to move in any direction. Three statuesque men followed the lead of the satyr-like lead dancer, while the women bent and swayed to the rhythmic music.

The final piece, “Koan,” involved all nine dancers focusing on the male-female partnerships. The struggle between man and woman was portrayed by the erotic love-hate relationships danced in “Koan.” A duet by Regina Larkin and Kevin Campbell finds the female trying desperately to incite the passions of her partner. The rest of the company moves around them in pairs, only heightening her frustration as the other couples, seemingly fulfilled, taunt her. The dominant male partner in each couple bends and manipulates the bodies of the female, taking control of the dance. Choreographed by Australian expatriate Gray Veredon, the piece ends in frustration for Larkin as her distant lover leaves her writhing on the stage in desperation.

Combining eroticism with tension, the Danscompany holds the audience in the palm of its outstretched hand. The broad movement and bold gesture serve to communicate the spirit of the dancer. The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts describes the Danscompany experience: “Every moment is a celebration of human beauty, giving the company a classic timelessness. Trisler’s choreography honors this beauty, but goes deeper; she celebrates mind and heart, as well.”

The company made its debut in 1974 under the direction of Joyce Trisler. New York Times critic Anna Kisselgoff wrote that the premier performance “reaches the level of the magnificent.” After the death of Trisler from a heart attack in 1979, dancer Miguel Lopez served as acting artistic director until Milton Myers took over in 1980. In 1986, Miguel Lopez again took over the reins as artistic director. Lopez had danced in the company since its inception in 1974. Both men are trained in the tradition of Joyce Trisler and are committed to keeping her spirit infused in the Danscompany.

The Danscompany celebration is over at Davidson, but as the Joyce Trisler Danscompany tours the United States, the celebration will spread. The celebration of life through dance, so beautiful in this shining example, has left us with our own celebration to contemplate. Line. Movement. Rhythm. Thought.

---

The plot, the character development, and the scene all mirror one another to effectively get writer Sam Shepard's main themes across. As the plot gains structure, so do the characters and the scene. The movie starts after some horrendous crime has been committed, from whence things move toward entropy. With a little help from Walt, the structure in all areas starts to form again, although things will never be the same as before the crime.

Technically, the movie is superb. The cinematography and direction of Wim Wenders especially deserve kudos. Colors appear brilliantly and intensely—they entice and amaze the audience. Some shots would be considered great still photographs, while others are able to sum up a whole situation. Dialogue is sparse but actually says quite a bit. Wenders artfully guides the actors and their assigned words into a fluid but slow stream of action and speech, taking the viewer along with the characters’ story. Wenders even overcomes the fact that Kinski could not have been the best choice for the part of Jane.

Paris, Texas is a small and slow film, but its pace and size are an asset to the overall production. It is intriguing and exciting on a small scale. As a German/French collaboration, it surprisingly gives an accurate view of America. However, the film is ambitious in a way American producers and directors would never think of. Four stars.

Paris, Texas can be seen Saturday at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 7 p.m. Both shows are in Love Auditorium.