Friday, May 1, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Trustees meet to vote on administration policies

Davidson's Board of Trustees meet on campus Thursday and Friday of this week. Among issues to be discussed are student housing (including the possibility of a new dorm), the sports center, tenure, a new capital funds campaign, and the college's investment policy. An advisory committee of faculty, staff, students, and trustees will present a draft revision of the 1979 investment policy statement. The draft does not call for divestment. The Board of Visitors will also be here in conjunction with the Trustees.

Material contributed by College Relations

Davidson presents work of freshman playwright

The Cultural Events Committee of the Union will sponsor a performance of The Teen-Age, a play written by freshman Molly Bass. Bass wrote the play when she was sixteen, and since then it has been performed off-Broadway and has won numerous awards. The play will be performed in the 900 Room on May 4 and 5 at 8 p.m. Admission will be free.

Material contributed by Margaret Hancock

Current Three-Term

Early Semester

3 and 3 and 3 equals 9 4 and 4 equals 8

2 and 2 and 2 equals 6 3 and 2 equals 5

10 and 10 and 10 equals 30 15 and 15 equals 30

40-50 45

240-300 225

450 360

Faculty hours per week per course 4-5 3-5

Faculty hours per week taught 8-10 6-13

Humanities course sequence 6 4

Course load per year (student) 10 8

Teaching load (faculty) 30 30

Weeks in term 40-50 45

Hours per term per course 240-300 225

Class hours per year (faculty) 450 360

Class hours per year (student) 300 270

Humanities contract hours 6/36 equals 16.6% 6/32 equals 18.7%

Tentative Calendar 1988

Start Aug. 24

Vacation Nov. 19-27

End Dec. 13

Exams Dec. 15-20

Spring

Start Jan. 11

Vacation Mar. 15-21

End May 2

Exams May 5-10

Commencement May 15

Tentative Calendar 1989

Start Aug. 23

Vacation Nov. 18-26

End Dec. 12

Exams Dec. 14-19

Spring

Start Jan. 10

Vacation Mar. 14-20

Classes end May 1

Exams May 4-9

Commencement May 14

American civilian dies in Nicaragua, Secord agrees to testify

By KATHERINE PRICE

Headlining events for April 21-30:

Around the World — Benjamin Ernest Linder, an American engineer working on a hydroelectric project in Nicaragua, was killed. The Sandinista government blamed the U.S. for the death, citing the U.S.-backed contras as murderers. Contra leaders claimed that Linder died amid crossfire, and that his death was accidental.

In Geneva, the Disarmament Conference of the United Nations, which involves forty nations, appears close to agreement on banning all chemical weapons.

Soviet leader Gorbachev’s apparent concession to the U.S. on short-range nuclear weapons last week made U.S. officials optimistic about a possible superpower summit in Washington this fall. Since Shultz’s Moscow meeting with Gorbachev, however, the Soviets have complicated the issue of short-range nuclear weapons by demanding that elimination be linked to withdrawal of U.S.-controlled Pershing I missiles in West Germany.

South Korean president Chun Doo Hwan killed debate about constitutional changes, stating that reforms would have to follow the 1988 Summer Olympics, hosted by Seoul. Pres. Chun Doo Hwan’s action sparked protest.

Senate investigative committees for the Iran/contra affair announced that Richard Secord will be the first witness at hearings to begin on Tues. Secord has agreed to appear without immunity. Secord is believed to have played a “middleman” role in the arms-for-hostages scandal. In a related story, fundraiser Carl “Spitz” Channell pleaded guilty to defrauding the government of taxes. Channell implicated Lt. Col. Oliver North — a key figure in the Iran/contra affair — with charges of conspiracy.

The Palestinian Liberation Organization concluded its meetings on Sunday reunited. Reorganization of the PLO came after Chairman Yasir Arafat agreed to sever ties with Egypt.

On Mon., the U.S. barred Austrian Pres. Kurt Waldheim from entering the U.S. Waldheim is believed to have been involved in Nazi persecution of Jews during World War II. Waldheim described the U.S. action as “incomprehensible.”

Pakistan has asked the U.S. to lease Pakistan radar aircraft. The aircraft, which would require U.S. military personnel, would be used by Pakistan to defend its borders from Afghanistan’s attacks.

Across the Nation — House and Senate investigative committees for the Iran/contra affair announced that Richard Secord will be the first witness at hearings to begin on Tues. Secord has agreed to appear without immunity. Secord is believed to have played a “middleman” role in the arms-for-hostages scandal. In a related story, fundraiser Carl “Spitz” Channell pleaded guilty to defrauding the government of taxes. Channell implicated Lt. Col. Oliver North — a key figure in the Iran/contra affair — with charges of conspiracy.

The House of Representatives narrowly voted 218-214 on Wed. to approve a trade bill amendment by Missouri Democrat Richard Gephardt. The amendment would automatically link U.S. trade policies to an assessment of fair trade practices of other countries. The vote was viewed as a signal to Japan to end trade practices perceived by the U.S. as unfair.

On Wed., a Senate Intelligence Committee vote unanimously favored tearing down the newly constructed U.S. embassy offices in Moscow. The vote of 15-0 followed recent discovery that the new embassy complex had been bugged.

Rev. Jerry Falwell made bold changes within the PTL leadership, dismissing top aides to Jim and Tammy Bakker. Harry Hargrove became the new PTL chief operations officer.

A building collapse last Thurs. in Bridgeport, Conn. left a dozen construction workers dead, with another sixteen workers either presumed dead or missing. Investigators of the L’Ambiance Plaza apartment building believe workers may have blasted too much rock at the site, creating a weak foundation.

In Economic News — Japanese Pres. Nakasone met with U.S. Pres. Reagan in Washington on Wed. to discuss trading practices which led to the U.S. imposition of tariffs on Japanese goods. The U.S. has been concerned with the Japanese trade surplus with the U.S. and Japanese violations of semiconductor agreements.