6 May 8, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

— Engel continued —

activities. Kazee will not make a speculation about the outcome of such a meeting. However, his committee may decide that Engell has been judged unfairly. In the meantime, many seniors are up in arms about the recent turn of events. According to Catherine Norton, “Of all the professors I’ve had, his door was the one that was always open. Other teachers don’t have such high standards, and it’s really a shame. It'll be a loss for Davidson.” Randy Ingram states, “I thought he was very knowledgeable and always willing to help after class. Class wasn’t over for him after class periods ended.” Clisby Hall agrees: “I think he’s an excellent professor. I was absolutely shocked that they would make such a decision.” Freshman Jennifer Payne remarked, “I think, at Davidson, that teaching ability should come before any other considerations. Dr. Engell was one of the best teachers I’ve ever had.”

Survey continued:

The issue of separated housing for next year’s freshmen men was also incorporated into the survey. 52% agreed that separated freshmen will not develop class unity, while 29% disagreed and 20% were undecided. An almost equal number of respondents disagreed on whether or not splitting up the freshmen would decrease damage to dormitories.

On the issue of student parking, 61% of students keep a car on campus and 71% disagree that Davidson should place restrictions on who may keep a car on campus. 28% find student parking a serious problem; 53% feel that it merits attention, 17% find it an inconvenience “that we will have to live with,” and 2% find the parking situation to be no problem at all.

On the issue of the Honor Code, 84% feel that it is very important, 14% said somewhat important and 2% saw the Honor Code as not being important at all. 37% feel that the Code of Responsibility is as important as the Honor Code, while 48% disagreed, and 14% were not sure. As far as how often the Honor Code is broken, 25% of students feel that it is broken often, while 50% disagreed and 25% were undecided.

Among reasons suggested for not reporting an honor code violation, the most commonly answered reason was that the violator was a personal friend (54%).

The concern over alcohol consumption among Davidson students was also addressed in the survey. When polled whether or not Davidson should more strictly enforce state drinking laws, an overwhelming majority of 78% disagreed. 74% also feel that the new drinking laws haven’t reduced alcohol consumption on campus. Also, when asked whether Davidson students for the most part drink responsibly, 42% agreed, 42% disagreed and 16% aren’t sure.

On the issue of drug use, 67% responded that they have not used drugs at Davidson, 17% say they have experimented, and 2% say they are regular users.

Male-Female relationships at Davidson were also explored. When asked if they had ever had a serious relationship with anyone at the school, 47% responded yes and 53% said no. The survey also showed that 82% feel that women are more interested in a serious relationship than men. A question that has often been brought up is whether or not Davidson’s intense academic workload has affected the number of serious relationships. To this question, 50% agreed that it has an effect, 40% disagreed while 10% were undecided. Finally, when asked whether Davidson women felt that Davidson men were primarily interested in the physical aspects of a relationship, 48% agreed, 22% disagreed and 30% were undecided.

Now to the issue of Davidson’s athletic program. When asked whether Davidson should give athletic scholarships in other sports besides basketball, 24% said all sports, 41% several sports, 21% prefer to keep it as is, while 14% feel Davidson should not give any athletic scholarships. On the question of whether or not Davidson should be willing to reduce its emphasis on academics in order to improve its intercollegiate athletic program, 91% disagree, 4% agree and 4% are undecided. 85% of the students also feel that conference affiliation is important to the school’s athletic program while only 3% feel that it is not important.

On the issue of the football team’s move to the Colonial Conference, 62% feel that it is not in the best interests of Davidson’s athletic program, while 12% consider it beneficial and 26% aren’t sure.

Opinion on the decision to build the new sports complex showed that 71% approve, 17% disapprove and 11% are undecided.

One of the most publicized decisions of the year has been the proposed switch to the semester system. On this issue, 39% feel we should change, 38% feel we should remain on trimesters and 22% are undecided. 47% of students feel that daily classes enhance learning, and 37% disagree; on the other hand, 42% feel that having classes every other day will improve the quality of a Davidson education, while 40% disagree. When asked about workload, 44% feel that semesters will not increase the workload while 37% feel they would and 17% are undecided.

— Semesters continued —

“The more students express problems, the smoother the transition will be,” he said. Based on polls taken by professors and the Political Science 129 (Public Opinion) class, student opinion on the semester issue is as evenly divided as that of the faculty. Some see the change as providing a less intense studying environment. “Davidson made a wise choice. It will give students more time to really get into a class and relax,” said freshman Sheldon Garmon. “The semester system will offer a welcome change of pace my senior year,” said sophomore J. “I think it will be a welcome change.”

Others are very opposed to the move. “One of the reasons I came here was the trimester system. I’d rather have just three classes and get them over with sooner,” said freshman Amelia Fox. “I feel that the semester system puts too much of a premium on choosing a major early in one’s college career. In this sense it restricts a person’s choices when the ability to choose is most important,” said junior Jeff Gregory.

The first semester under the new system in 1988 will last from August 24 through December 20, with a break between November 19 and 27. The second semester, in 1989, will last from January 11 through May 15, with a break between March 15 and 21.

— Kuykendall continued —

ter at the plenary session on Friday.

Religious Life/Church Relations:Resolution which was adopted by the Board at your February meeting has now been conveyed to the Synod of North Carolina and to other interested parties in the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.). It appears that the Board’s action comes at a very timely juncture in the Church’s life, since it seems probable that the proposals for revisions of boundaries for Presbyteries and Synods will go forward in the course of the next few months. Pending positive response from the current Presbyteries, the Synod of North Carolina and the Synod of the Piedmont will take action on proposed revision of Presbytery boundaries at the joint meeting to be held on the Davidson campus May 28-30. Subsequently, the General Assembly will probably act upon the proposed new Synod boundaries at its meeting in Biloxi, Mississippi in mid-June. Thus, it will probably be necessary for Davidson to deal with the reallocation of Presbytery assignments at some point in the near future. We will plan to provide you with an update on this situation after the meeting of the General Assembly in June.

As we look toward the Commencement ceremony and the Summer, there are one or two projects which I hope to initiate as the pace slows down a bit. The first has to do with the necessary review of the Strategic Planning document in preparation for the October meeting of the Board. It is my hope to be able to propose to Chairman John Belk and the members of the Strategic Planning Committee whatever revisions seem appropriate by the end of the Summer, so that the Committee can act upon these as the new school year begins. I also plan to establish an ad hoc group to survey Davidson’s current involvement in service activities of all kinds, with an eye toward making some recommendations which would fulfill that particular aspect of our strategic plan more adequately than we have been able to do to date.

In addition to those hopes for the Summer, I am also hoping for “a few good men” — and women! — who want to go on our pilgrimage through the lands of our Presbyterian heritage. Missy and I are looking forward to that special opportunity, and hope that we will be joined in the journey by a number of Davidson friends. I look forward to seeing each of you on the campus on April 30 and May 1, and thank you for all that you continue to do for Davidson College.

Faculty and Curriculum: After eight months of intensive discussion and debate under the leadership of Dean Robert C. Williams, the Educational Policy Committee is prepared to present the faculty with a proposal for curriculum revision and a change of the calendar to an early semester pattern which is most frequently used in higher education today. If the faculty sees fit to approve this plan, it will be conveyed to you for your review at the October meeting of the Board and would then go into effect in the 1988-89 school year. As was previously reported, a major aspect of the curriculum enhancement will be the effort to strengthen the junior and senior year in the humanities, including greater opportunities for independent study, faculty-student joint research projects, and new interdisciplinary courses — all to be undertaken under the generosity of the Pew Foundation, which has made us a grant of $499,000 for this project.

I am delighted to inform you that Professor Thomas Kazee of our Department of Political Science has been granted a Congressional Fellowship from the American Political Science Association for sabbatical study next year. You will also be interested to know that Grant D. Jones, Professor of Anthropology, has accepted Bob Williams' invitation to serve as the Director of our Grants and Contracts Office, which was set up this year under the leadership of Professor John Kelton with funds from the Duke Endowment. In addition to his other qualifications, Professor Jones brings a certain symmetry of nomenclature to the job. We are still trying to decide what sign to put on his door: “Grant’s Office?” “Grants by Grant?” “Grant’s Grants?” or perhaps “Grants?”

This term is the final one before retirement for Jean Cornell, Associate Professor of Speech, who has been a member of the Davidson faculty since 1971. We owe Jean a sincere expression of thanks for her good service to the College. You will be hearing a further report from the Committee on Academic and Educational Policy concerning recommendations on tenure and promotion for this year. Bob Williams and I will, of course, be available for further comment on those matters as is appropriate.

Campus Planning and Physical Plant: The work immediately before us in the area of physical facilities is both diverse and challenging. In the course of the Summer months, we will be undertaking several projects designed to provide space desperately needed for the ongoing activities of the College next year. The continuing process of “liberating” Chambers for academic use will lead us in the course of this Summer to remove additional administrative offices to Jackson Court and perhaps other places on campus. Grover Meetze has a personal commitment outstanding to Mr. Ray Oeland to see to it that the Oeland Language Center is ensconced in the south basement of Chambers by next Fall, and we will also be renovating the spaces upstairs which have been used for the audio-visual and language lab activities for faculty office and classroom space. In addition, this Summer will also bring with it continuation of our work on enlargement and pavement of parking areas and renovation and possible air conditioning of dormitories insofar as our budgeting will permit.

There are a number of other major projects which will be passing through fairly critical stages this Summer as well. We will be consulting with several Trustee committees prior to the plenary session concerning the timetable for groundbreaking for the Baker Sports Complex, and will also plan to make reports through appropriate committees to the Board concerning plans for additional student housing (to be available for September of 1988) and for the enhanced facilities for the arts. We also hope to be in a position to provide preliminary recommendations concerning the proper approach to evaluation of our long-term plans for the development and utilization of College property. It seems clear that our current holdings, together with whatever future acquisitions the Board might undertake, promise to be significant assets for the College's future.