Wednesday, January 28, 1987 - THE DAVIDSONIAN

Just Words
Tim Brown

Overlook the fact that he supports monetarily the Contras in Nicaragua, and you can't help but like H. Ross Perot. He is one of the last of a disappearing breed of corporate executives, identifiable by their straightforward speech with which they reveal their heartfelt convictions. Ever since he was old enough to lasso the idea of developing employee-employer relations, the Texan Perot has used barbed words to express his strongest conviction: A company will never be successful, no matter how much technology it has, unless it makes good use of its most valuable resource — its people.

Last month General Motors and its tipsy-minded executives booted Perot, his straightforward speech, and his conviction out the back door of the GM saloon. With $1000 cash and the million-dollar idea that people need help using computers, Perot built Electronic Data Systems (EDS). In 1984 Roger Smith, chairman of General Motors, purchased EDS and hired Perot because he thought EDS’s computer expertise, Perot’s unbridled entrepreneurial energy, and Perot’s unbroken fighting spirit would help GM win car wars. This time, Smith, a smart shopper but a naive buckaroo, got more than he bargained for. Smith would fail to bridle Perot’s entrepreneurial energy and would fail to break Perot’s fighting spirit.

Perot galloped at full speed into his new job at GM. Immediately he applied his energy and spirit to allow GM to make better use of its people. He showed workers at different levels the same respect, listened attentively to workers’ ideas, and involved workers in problem-solving. He set out to shatter the corporate hierarchy — arguing that titles are useless and that actions are what count — and set out to evaporate perks, which he believes insulate corporate executives from the rest of the workforce. Practicing what he passionately preached, Perot drove his own car, paid for his own office supplies and office furniture, answered his own phone, and ate lunch and mingled with assembly-line workers.

Irritated by Perot’s actions, Smith argued — and not all that unreasonably — that Perot’s philosophy concerning the development of employee-employer relations might work at EDS, but not at a mammoth-sized corporation such as GM. Smith's argument fell on Perot's deaf ears, and Smith's growing irritation, which Perot expected, did not inhibit but inspired Perot to continue acting upon his philosophy. Perot explains, “I am a grain of sand that irritates the oyster (the corporation or corporation director) until it produces a pearl.” Maybe Smith and Smith’s physician mistook an irritating grain of sand for an ulcer.

One of Perot’s notable actions and two of his notable demands made notable fissures in Smith's steam valves. Last summer, Perot was being interviewed on TV about one of the original copies of the Magna Carta he had purchased recently. Midway through one of the interviewer’s many questions, Perot decided it was time for a commercial break. He interrupted the interviewer, made positive comments about the T-type Buick, and encouraged the interviewer, the cameraman, and other network people to “come out and drive it on the test track.” Perot’s commercialMade Smith’s blood pressure rise quicker than mercury. Why? Perot had not received commercial authorization from GM directors. Besides, as GM’s directors whimpered, “Roger Smith ought to be the one who test drives the T-type Buick.” Usually, the prisoner about to be executed is allowed one last demand—say, a phone call to Mom or to Pizza Hut. Well, before his career with GM was terminated by Smith and the GM directors, Perot managed to make two demands. He demanded that GM pay EDS stockholders the profits it promised to pay them to avoid a real securities-law problem. Also, Perot demanded that GM's management should not receive annual bonuses in 1986 since GM had just closed 11 plants and laid off 30,000 workers. Perot painted GM's situation in patriotic colors: “When a company that is laying off workers pays bonuses, it’s as though the generals at Valley Forge had bought new uniforms for themselves when the troops were fighting in the snow barefooted.” Smith and the directors of GM voted to pay Perot $700 million to shut up and get out. Perot has given up his 11 million shares of GM stock and has crossed his heart and hoped to die if he should criticize GM in public ever again. If he does criticize GM in public, he can be fined $7.5 million.

The son of a very prominent man was a senior cadet at the Naval Academy and was caught stealing. The Naval Academy's honor committee found him guilty and decided he should be expelled. But there was much political pressure on the academy to sail and let sail. Senior cadet Perot threatened to resign as chairman of the honor committee and as president of his class if the guilty cadet were not expelled. By graduation time, the senior class was less one cadet. And Perot graduated with his class. Perot is willing to pay to say what he feels is right and what he feels ought to be heard. Seven hundred million dollars divided by $7.5 million equals roughly 93 barbed criticisms of GM.

Brown is Opinions Editor of The Davidsonian

---

WINTER SPRING SUMMER FALL

Scholarships Available for Superior Students to Study in LONDON and WASHINGTON

Students may earn up to six semester credits (three in Summer) in academic internships with added credits for courses in Politics, Journalism, Economics, Law, and International Relations. Credits are transferred through Hampden-Sydney College, founded in Virginia by James Madison in 1776.

STUDY AT OXFORD

Students may also apply to study for one or two terms at several colleges of Oxford University.

FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE WRITE TO:
Washington International Studies Center
Room 713A, 901 Sixth Street, S.W.
Washington, DC 20024 / EO/AA

---

Sadler Square—next to Food Lion

STUDENTS: 10% off all meals with student ID Sun-Thurs. only

MON & WED: Pitchers of Beer $3.25 plus $1.00 off pizza

Come watch your favorite sports on our wide screen TV.

Sandwiches & Pizza * Drinks
Mon. - Thurs. 11:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.
Fri. and Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.
Sunday 4:30 p.m. - 10:00 p.m.