Monday, September 21, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN 3

Women's cross-country starts at Invitational

By CAROLINE CICERO

The Davidson Women’s Cross Country Team will open its season tomorrow by hosting the Davidson Alumni Invitational. UT-Chattanooga, VMI, Appalachian, The Citadel, Furman, and East Tennessee State will compete here in addition to Davidson Alumni. The first race begins at 9:00 a.m.

The Wildcats, who traveled to the Wildcat Den to train in the mountains, have been practicing together since September 2. Six seniors returned including Captain Karen Kemerait, Clara Broniec, Laura Fannin, Debbie Niles, Kappa Peddy, and Morrow Reeves. 

“Besides the experience of our senior women,” says Coach Gary Andrew, “we also have a lot of young runners.” Because of several sophomore and freshman runners, the team has a lot of depth.

Top runners who returned from last year are Fannin and sophomore Missy Willis. Peddy, who spent her junior year abroad, is also expected to run extremely well.

Injuries have set back training for some women, including sophomore Lisa Culbertson, whose foot is in a cast.

Upcoming cross country meets include the Winthrop Invitational in Rock Hill, S.C. on Sept. 26 and the A.S.U. Classic in Boone on Oct. 3. Davidson’s cross country course has been improved, and it looks great for upcoming home meets.

High-quality, certified DS/DD floppies for IBM, Apple II, Commodore, Atari, and other computers are now on sale for just 65¢ or $6.00 for ten! Never worry about losing your precious files again! Come by the offices of The Davidsonian in the College Union (Phone: 892-2000) or stop by Belk 403 (Phone: 892-6415).

Sports Shorts

By BILL SMITH

The outlook for Gary Andrew’s cross-country teams this year is one of improvement and optimism. According to Assistant Coach Greg Forman, both the women and the men should finish higher in the conference standings. The majority of the men from last season are coming back, yet the team is still young. Robert Cornish, the team captain, heads a group of sixteen runners consisting of two seniors, six juniors, two sophomores, and four freshmen. The frontrunners are projected to be Cornish, Jay Clugston, William Breidenstine, Chris Fisher, and William Hartman. Two freshmen, Louis Mattison and Brian Healey, have been impressive and should be influential as well in the growth of the team. The coaches are expecting a better standing than last year’s — possibly even as high as fifth. The conference leaders they will be gunning for appear to be East Tennessee, Marshall, and Appalachian State, but this early in the season it is hard to tell. Since cross-country is such a short season, from mid-September to mid-November, the runners have usually trained over the latter course of the summer. Coach Andrew therefore puts the team through quality workouts to fine-tune their muscles in preparation for the final stretch of the season. Quality practices consist of running distances of seven or eight miles at a quick pace or doing fartlek runs which involve a lot of surging. The runners generally average fifty-five to sixty miles a week and rarely run over twelve miles in one day. Their races, generally on Saturdays, are eight kilometers. When you attend the two all-important meets here at Davidson, the Davidson Open on September 19th and the Conference Championship on October 31st, support our runners and yell them onward.

By HAP BRYANT

Bobby Jones to speak in 900 room. Former North Carolina and Philadelphia 76’ers star Bobby Jones will present a program in the 900 room Monday night at 7:30. Jones, a resident of Charlotte, will speak on his Christian values and his NBA career. The Fellowship of Christian Athletes will sponsor the program.

This week’s Athlete of the Week is senior soccer goalkeeper Jim Kelly. In early Wildcat action this season, Kelly has recorded 3 shutouts and was named most valuable player of the WSOC soccer tournament last weekend. After missing all of last year with an ankle injury, Jim seems to have recovered the form which gained him all-conference honors in 1985. Congratulations, Jim. Nominations for the Athlete of the Week should be sent to Sports Editors, The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219. 

Take a hike list. With inspiration from the Commissioner of Sports Trivia Nationwide, Todd Donoho, we have decided to inaugurate a weekly “take a hike” list. On this week’s list:

1. Gene Upshaw and the NFL Players’ Association — frankly, if the NBA season would start a few weeks earlier, the football glory boys could strike every year.

2. “The Boz” — although he really doesn’t even deserve print, the Boz needs to take a hike for his taunting of John Elway, as well as for his desire to make everyone in football accept his standards.

3. George Steinbrenner (with apologies to his nephew, Mr. Kamm) — had he not messed with Lou Piniella and the on-field workings of the Yankees, they probably would still be in the race instead of falling.