Friday, January 9, 1987

THE DAVIDSONIAN

News Shorts

Biology Society works on nesting sites

The Biology Society, in order to commemorate Davidson College's Sesquicentennial, is working to establish 150 nesting sites for cavity-nesting birds. The new nesting sites will improve the bird habitats on and around Davidson and stop the dramatic declines in population of many birds.

Once nesting sites have been established, the society will monitor each site for successful nesting, number of birds fledged, and cleaning and repair of sites.

For anyone who would like to support this project, a $5.00 donation will sponsor a house. A $10.00 donation sponsors two houses, one of which may be placed in the sponsor’s yard. The society also needs 8’ cedar posts (2.5” in diameter) or an 8’ pipe (3/4” in diameter).

For more information, please contact Bob Kemerait at -6161, Sentelle 213 or Dr. John Williamson at ext. 324.

Material contributed by Bob Kemerait and Dr. John Williamson

Rape Crisis office hours

The Davidson College Rape Crisis now holds office hours four nights a week. The purpose is to ease access to confidential counseling for those who have experienced sexual assault and to offer information on the issue to any interested persons. Please feel free to stop by, Monday through Thursday, 1-9 p.m. They're in the Union (in the former Shangrila Room). No appointment is necessary.

Material contributed by Kim Williams

Beyond Davidson

Chad shoots Libyan jets, Congress reconvenes

By DAVID WILLIAMS

Headlining Events for the week January 5-8:

Around the World — The Libyan airforce used four Soviet-built MIG-23 planes to stage a bombing raid on two targets in southern Chad lying below the 16th parallel that divides Chad into northern and southern halves. The Chadian army shot down one of the Libyan jets. The French, who have committed themselves to defend the southern region of Chad, retaliated against Libya by bombing a Libyan-held radar installation at Wadi Doum in northern Chad.

Philippine official Aquilino Pimentel, an adviser to President Corazon Aquino, said “long and tortuous” negotiations would have to take place before a Moslem insurgency is ended in the Philippines.

The Soviet Union proposed to negotiate a timetable for withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan through U.N.-sponsored talks. The proposal came from Soviet news agency TASS, as Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze returned to Moscow from Kabul.

New York's Cardinal O’Connor met Sunday with Israeli President Chaim Herzog and Monday with Foreign Minister Shimon Peres in Jerusalem. The Vatican called O’Connor’s meetings an “act of courtesy” and said they should not be considered official acts of Vatican diplomacy.

Iraqi planes attacked a Liberian-registered oil tanker and set it on fire near Iran’s Kharg Island oil terminal. Meanwhile, Iranian forces intercepted eight foreign ships in the Persian Gulf.

Israeli helicopters staged attacks on southern Lebanese bases of Moslem Shiite fundamentalists, killing at least three people.

A strike movement by French unions extended from the railroads to the state-run electrical power company in France and the Paris subway, but Prime Minister Jacques Chirac said he would not depart from the “austerity” policies the government has undertaken to prevent a downturn in the French economy.

Illegal posters urging Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping to make democratic reforms reappeared on the walls of Peking University.

The official Vietnamese press agency reported that Vietnamese troops had successfully repulsed a Chinese attack at the border and had killed...or wounded 500 Chinese soldiers.

Across the Nation — The 100th Congress convened for the first time Tuesday, and the House and Senate both voted to create special panels to probe the Iran-Contra affair. Lawrence Walsh, the independent counsel appointed in the Iran-Contra affair, will consider taking over three investigations to determine whether criminal activity was involved in the diversion of funds to the Nicaraguan Contras from the sale of arms to Iran. Meanwhile, the Senate intelligence committee voted not to honor a Reagan administration request to release the 150-page report by the committee on its share into the Iran-Contra affair.

An Amtrak train carrying more than 500 passengers between Washington, D.C. and Boston Sunday collided with three Conrail engines hauling freight, killing 15 and injuring 176 in the worst train wreck in Amtrak history. U.S. Senators and Representatives began questioning whether freight trains and Amtrak trains should be allowed to run on the same tracks.

Federal investigators determined that the New Year's Eve fire in the Dupont Plaza hotel in San Juan, Puerto Rico was started when an arsonist ignited furniture stored in plastic wrapping in the ballroom area. The death toll from the fire rose to 96.

President Reagan underwent successful surgery to remove an obstruction from an enlarged prostate. Doctors also removed four apparently noncancerous polyps from his colon.

President Reagan Monday submitted to Congress a fiscal year 1988 budget totaling nearly $1.02 billion. The Reagan Administration calculated a deficit for FY 1988 of $107.8 billion, but Congressional Democrats said these figures were substantially underestimated by as much as $27 billion. Both Republicans and Democrats in Congress said the budget would have to be substantially reworked.

The President approved substantial salary increases for high-level Federal employees, including Cabinet officers, members of Congress, and Federal judges. Congressional salaries will increase from $77,400 to $89,500.

Senator Richard Lugar (R.-Indiana) defeated Senator Jesse Helms (R.-North Carolina) by a margin of 7-0 for the position of ranking Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. House Democrats voted 130-124 to depose Representative Les Aspin (D.-Wisconsin) as chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. Five of seven Armed Services subcommittee chairmen endorsed Marvin Leath (D.-Texas) to replace Aspin.

In Economic Headlines — The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed Wednesday at a record 1993.95 points, as stock prices rose sharply. The Dow advanced 98 points since last Friday, the first trading day of 1987.

President Reagan’s Budget Director James Miller rejected the possibility of a summit between the President and Congressional leaders on a means to reduce the federal deficit. House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dan Rostenkowski said he expects his committee will approve an international trade bill by May.

U.S. oil prices rose above $18 a barrel, the highest level since nearly a year ago. Domestic automobile sales set a record of 16.3 million units in 1986, up 0.8 million from the previous record set in 1985. Factory orders climbed 4.1 percent in November, while construction spending fell 0.7 percent. BankAmerica rejected First Interstate’s takeover offer. The Commerce Department disclosed that it had uncovered a plot to smuggle U.S. electronics equipment to Bulgaria. The U.S. government began seeking bids for a contract for a new telecommunications network, which could total $4 billion.

No way. You mean people who read The Davidsonian wear ties like these too?! So fit in and read The Davidsonian.