Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Why must there always be a revolution poem for South Africa? Like so many old hens clucking around the nest
of an offspring, the voice sounds pathetic—yet, there is a strength about it that cannot be disputed. Suddenly it drops
to a deep murmur as she remembers days gone by—days when things were not quite as hard as they are
now, days when there was a brotherhood between people with the same color skin, days when distrust did not rule
the land, days when a stranger’s or one’s next-door neighbor’s name was always in the pot, days when tears shed
for those one did not know personally, days when fatherless children belonged to everyone and motherless children never realized it,
days when life was sweet.

But now... sweet revenge belongs to the people and they mean to have it. Red is the color of revenge.
Revenge is the color of blood. Sweet revenge belongs to the people and they mean to have it. The fight
is for freedom, democracy, civil rights, and the land—the many-colored land of their ancestors, an inherent part of their intended
heritage. Now the colors have turned sour and curdled like milk. The land holds the past and the future: blood
long ago dried up, fragments of bones in desecrated and fragmented graves, hope and despair, dreams and nightmares, success and
failure. Most of all, it holds chance—something they have heretofore been denied in their own country. Sweet revenge belongs to
the people and they shall have it.

Jackie Daughtery

Friday, January 9, 1987

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Among Other Things—A meditation on what it means to be alive. What is life but experience, a mirage of moments,
blips that we subject to the dimensions of time and space, cause and effect relationships we determine to be good
or bad, etcetera, which are filtered through the “senses.” And what is our environment, whether one thinks it one’s own
projection, or autonomous, outside of one’s own existence, but a stage in which to create, find, or have those experiences?
Furthermore, let me say that through interaction, education takes place—interaction with materials, media, and of utmost importance to this writer,
with other people and the natural environment. Through other things and other beings we reflect ourselves, learn about who we
are and what life means for us, and come to know how we wish to experience what there is to
experience. Can we choose what to experience? Good question. Most certainly, and at any level. We are all responsible for
the choices we make as functioning beings, and we choose to do everything we do, and who we are. Some
things seem to come up by chance, yet there is a reason, a choice we make which allows for that
particular thing to happen. This is where the dynamic nature of interaction, and thus education, begins to reveal itself, where
intuition plays a role, or subconscious impulse, or possibly things which lie beyond our superficial reasoning or awareness, and thus
we call it chance. Be it chance or otherwise is really irrelevant. The truth is that things do happen, opportunities
arise for us to take, taste, deny, or continue to explore, and we, initiating these opportunities or otherwise, choose how
to respond. This is what Art is all about, facing a situation, and choosing how we as individuals wish to
respond; risking a bad experience in order to gain. Now this brings up the notion and question of the possibility
of “bad” experience. To me, though an experience may not be positive in certain conventional terms, it may not make
you happy (if that is what you want, to be “happy”), all experience has a point to make, a meaning
or lesson if you will, which allows for learning, or a better understanding of who we are and...Thus, how we
perceive the world around us can be taken for benefit. Vice versa? Another good question, rather like which came first,
the chicken or the egg? Right now, I will say that it goes both ways. I am about to embark
on an experience, a trip to Scotland, which “sacrifices” money among other things, and one in which I risk a
great deal in relation to my emotional and psychological being, and thus stability. Why? I am doing it for the
possibility of acting out one of the greatest creations I can imagine: the development of an intimate life-relationship with a
special other in my life. Of course, what is money in comparison to the potential gain (not to sound so
capitalistic at all) of establishing a love-relationship of such magnitude with someone so special? Not to disregard the wealth of
experience available when one travels and interacts with the peoples and places, and therefore “realities,” of other cultures. For me,
this aspect of interaction is a key element to what life is all about. Perhaps this will be my art,
the sharing of such experience, who knows. In any case, interaction with other realities is essential to education and growth.
Though vulnerable, I can only gain from my journey, in whatever way it turns out, and have a better understanding
of myself and my world, or what I make my world to be.

Going back to choice, we need to know why we are making the choices we make, and not just go
around blindly doing, lost in the routines of our society. By blind, I mean unconscious of the choices we make.
I believe that some part of our consciousness always knows why we make a choice; we are just asleep sometimes
to that knowledge. This will be discussed later more directly. An example: we do not just brush our teeth, we
do it in order to enjoy the longevity of our teeth. Of course, the person who deems that that is
not important, and that is perfectly alright, lets his/her teeth rot, and gets new false ones if he/she thinks teeth
necessary at all, and continues on. Yet this person knows why he/she made the choice, and sticks to the choice
responsibly. I take time off from school because intuition (whatever that is) tells me that I do not need to
be learning from books, etc., and I go learn from other experiences (i.e., travel, etc.). I know why I make
the choice, I do not just do it. This is not to say that one need necessarily be fully conscious
of the reasons why a choice is made, and this is where, in my case and words, intuition can play
its part. However, regardless of whether or not a person can actually verbalize the reasons why a choice is made,
he/she has to be confident in his/her assessment of the situation, and therefore in the choice made.

Sometimes a person has to trust himself. One has to justify where art and life are related as well. One
makes choices based on knowledge such as conscious, unconscious, more innate, and takes a risk at being wrong, but a
choice is had. What is the stock that these two aspects or levels are merely material, or more knowledge, and
thus to that individual, both what comprises his or her world.

Of course, visual art is about the whole process, essential to our existence, expression, and therefore exist. In any activity,
one can teach dance, and certainly, dance and other fine art disciplines can serve this purpose. A creative endeavor, a
creative outcome, therefore. Snow skiing serves the same with the snow and nature. Conversation is also a great level for
experience. What are the risks? Questioning about being wrong. Questioning about what you are unclear. (What conversation, discussion, understanding of
your why you are) in accordance with who and why you are. Support your choices with the strength of your
conviction with the subject matter. The more one trains, the more one learns what their world is.

Education, or the understanding of existence.
