Friday, Dec 6, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Alcohol support group formed for local families
By BETSEY BRYAN

Davidson’s recently formed Alcohol Support Group provides an opportunity for children of an alcoholic parent or parents to meet and
discuss concerns about their families. Harriette Root, Assistant Dean of Students, saw the need for such a group at Davidson.
“Alcoholics Anonymous has a branch called ‘Adult Children of Alcoholics’ for older people who’ve grown up with an alcoholic family
member,” she said.

Root developed the idea for the Alcohol Support Group last fall after speaking with Campbell Perry, a drug counselor who
works at Davidson on Wednesday nights, and Debbie Brinton, a freshman returning to college after working for several years as
a registered nurse. Root credits Brinton with the group's formation, saying, “Debbie has done a wonderful job with the group.”

While working as a nurse, Brinton served for three years as the director of a detoxification program at a nearby
mental health center. During this time, she did a lot of family counseling for the relatives of alcoholics. “I became
interested in this type of work because my father is a recovering alcoholic,” Brinton said. “I can remember the anxiety
I experienced when I left for college for the first time and my dad was drinking. It’s hard to be
away and have to worry, not knowing what's going on in your family.”

Although Brinton organized the group, she denies that she is its leader. “I think this is more a sharing group,”
she said. “Everybody there is a leader, really. We’re all involved. There’s no pressure. It’s just a forum for voicing
our concerns, supporting others, and receiving support from others who understand.”

Now five weeks old, the Davidson Alcohol Support Group meets at 4 p.m. on Wednesdays in the Wilson Room of
the Union. All are invited to attend.

Humanities grant paves way for student fellowships
By GEORGE KURANI

The Humanities departments at Davidson will be diversifying starting this summer thanks to changes made possible by a grant from
the Pew Corporation. In response to this grant, the Pew Program Committee is currently in charge of overseeing programs designed
to strengthen and expand these departments at Davidson in a variety of ways.

A little over a year ago, the Pew Corporation invited 30 colleges to submit proposals for programs in fields of
humanities. President Kuykendall and the Academic Vice President appointed a number of faculty members to work on a committee that
would submit a grant proposal to the Pew Corporation. These faculty members include Dr. Hansford Epes, Dr. Tony Abbott, Dr.
David Kaylor, Dr. Lance Stell, Dr. Cynthia Lewis, and Dr. Robert Williams. Davidson was among only half of the colleges
chosen to get close to the full grant offered by the Pew Corporation. The grant totals $500,000 which will be
spent over the course of a five-year program at the college.

The Pew Program Committee was reformed after Davidson was granted funds. The same faculty members who had written the request
for the grant remained on the committee, and two new student representatives were added this October: junior Caryn Coppedge and
senior John Doe.

Three major areas of interest have been selected by the Pew Program Committee. The first is to develop interdisciplinary courses
and seminars in the Humanities departments for seniors. With these courses, seniors could learn a great deal by combining such
courses as English and Religion. This step of the program will give seniors a much wider field of study in
whatever...area of the Humanities they wish to pursue.

The second area that the Pew Committee has chosen to examine concerns Capstone courses. These courses will be geared for
seniors majoring in a specific area of the Humanities departments. Capstone courses will serve to bring together many aspects involved
in a Humanities major.

The Pew Committee has spent a great deal of time working on the third area of development since it will
probably prove to be extremely important for students involved with the Humanities. Starting this summer, mostly rising seniors and some
rising juniors will work with a member of the faculty on a one-to-one basis in research. The student will work
as a “junior researcher” and apprentice in the project with a faculty member, both playing an important part in the
project. Funding for the work comes from the Pew Grant, which will support a number of research fellowships. The fellowships
will last between six and eight weeks in the summer and will be supported by up to $1800 for this
time period.

Dr. Epes is acting chairman this year for the Pew Committee. He said that the goal of the committee is
to get good students involved with some of the activities that Davidson’s faculty works on. “Working on research with a
faculty member is an excellent way to strengthen and excite the junior and senior years for students majoring in some
field of the humanities,” Epes said. “Going out and learning with the faculty should serve to challenge interested students and
get them more involved with their majors. We hope to have as many as four student-faculty groups for this summer,
and we expect as many as ten groups by our fifth year.”

Coppedge feels that the new programs will definitely improve the offerings for upper-classmen majoring in humanities departments. “I feel that
our programs have the potential to meet many of the needs of Davidson students,” she said. “Humanities departments do need
Capstone courses to tie in different facets of independent majors and the opportunity for student research in a topic of
his choice is very unique.”

Capstone and interdisciplinary courses along with a variety of seminars will appear as part of Davidson’s regular curriculum next year.
The committee is currently in the process of getting the whole program into place for the upcoming years and is
currently ready to accept applications for summer research with faculty members. Information for students who wish to apply will be
available in Dr. Robert Williams’ office. Applicants are encouraged to apply at this time.

Dr. Epes anticipates teams of students and faculty applying for the program in the future. “This is exactly what we’re
looking for,” he said. “I anticipate that this program will be around for a while and become a part of
the opportunities that we offer to Davidson students. We think that our program will be part of a very exciting
experience and I hope that we can read and consider many applicants.”

---

“Let us be your connection to great Pizza!”

Delivery to Davidson College - FREE!

Sandwiches Pizza
Mon. - Thurs. 11:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.
Fri. and Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.
Sunday 4:30 p.m. - 10:00 p.m.
892-9046

25% OFF any order of 3 or more PIZZAS

Drinks

FIRST UNION
Mon-Thurs. 9-5
Fri. 9-6
Main St. Davidson

Lord West Tux Rentals
Formals By:
- Miami Vice
- After Six
- Yves Saint Laurent
- Raffinati
- Robert Wagner

ALL OCCASIONS SHOP
Town Square Cornelius
892-9129

Hometown Service
Low Prices
Bring in ad to receive free boutonniere with any rental
