Friday, May 8, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

—— Interview continued ——

...adopt it and we go public then. Probably not a public announcement of the Campaign before 1988, but there is
this process of conversation within the family of the College before we concede what has to go on before we
do it. That’s very important. Obviously, the discussion of the Divestment Policy is something which has been a continued concern
of the community for a good long while. I think the proper context for viewing what happened in the Board
meeting this time is the fact that in 1979 the Board had acted and espoused an earlier policy which served
as a kind of a point of reference for the decisions that were made this go around. For me, the
policy which has been adopted is much more explicit. It provides the administration with the kinds of directives that we
need to take the courses of action that are consistent with the Trustees' reading of what is warranted here. And
I think it is safe to say that the administration of the College will be more assertive in the months
ahead in terms of that particular aspect of Investment Policy (that particular being, the part having to do with investment
in corporations doing business in South Africa).

It is not admittedly a policy which is acceptable or comfortable for all constituencies within the College. I think it
represents to most within the College evidence of genuine goodwill on the part of the Trustees that take seriously the
concern of the College family in entering into dialogue and in coming to some sort of reflective conclusion which represents
their sensitivity to their own fiduciary responsibilities as well as to the moral issues which are involved and the best
way to address those issues in their judgment. This is clearly an issue on which people of goodwill and conscience
will not always agree. I think it leaves open within the community — it leaves open avenues for conversation of
other moral issues as well in terms of the investment policies of the College. And I will say it is
completely within the realm of possibility at some point in the future, I would not hazard a guess as to
what those issues might be, but I think it is possible that the Trustees will be asked to apply that
policy in yet other circumstances than the South African situation as well. Those are important.

Another important thing I would underscore — and this is something that may have kind of gotten by in terms
of significance, but the Trustees with considerable deliberation, made a decision in terms of the funding for the immediate expenses
both for the Sports Complex and for additional housing for students to undertake a tax-free bond package which is because
of the change in the North Carolina Constitution this last year is possible for the first time. This in the
judgment of the Trustees represents in a sense an exception to the rule. Davidson College has a policy of no
indebtedness, but this particular approach to funding is one which is so attractive especially in cases such as these two.
On the one hand, in the case of the Sports Complex, in which the funds are pledged but are going
to come in over a period of time which is longer than the construction period. You know you are going
to have the money, you are just not going to have it when the bricks are going into place unless
you choose to wait until all the money is in hand. In the other instance, a dormitory is one of
those facilities — one of those few facilities in a college situation — which is a revenue-producing facility. And so
it will in a sense pay back its own indebtedness whether or not funds are raised to foot the bill
on it. So there is a sense in which by taking out one of these Tax-Free Bonds and getting the
money the facility itself pays back over the long pull. So, I think that’s a rather remarkable step. Not remarkable
in the sense of news grabbing, but it says that the Trustees have opened the College’s opportunities for the construction
of new facilities into a new dimension which was not available to us before because it was illegal in North
Carolina before, or at least it was extra-legal, it could be done legally. And now it’s a possibility and they
have taken advantage of that possibility and that represents a lot of significance there too.

Davidsonian: Is the new housing being built with the notion of eventually providing housing for all students who desire it
(which isn’t the case now) or is it being built with an eye toward the future and making an increase
in student enrollment?

Kuykendall: The first half of the question, John — I don’t think it is economically sensible to presume housing for
100%. I don’t think we would ever say, we have 1,350 beds so we have 1,350 students or vice versa.
I think it is intended to see to it that the students who currently desire off-campus housing and are not
able to afford it, obtain it not afford it, are able to obtain it will have the option for some
on-campus situation. But we will not, according to my reckoning of the numbers, will not be up to 1,350 beds
on campus at any point. We will always depend upon the outside community, both for those students who need for
financial reasons to live at home or to live in some other circumstances and for those students who simply desire
to be in another setting, we probably are going to find ourselves (this is the pendulum of student inclination in
terms goes back and forth) we are probably going to find ourselves at some points along that swinging of the
pendulum saying to some people we know you don’t want to live on campus, but you've got to live on
campus because we figure our budget this way. And that’s going to be mildly coercive in its way as it
has been maybe mildly or more than mildly, coercive to some sophomore males the last few years saying, “Sorry guys,
we haven’t got any rooms. You've got to go find your own colony.” So we'll probably find ourselves as we
expand the number of beds available on campus having to establish some basic guidelines as to who can live off-campus
and under what circumstances. So it becomes then a privilege rather than a necessity once again.

With regard to growth, the current policy of the College is that we intend to stay essentially the same size.
Now I say the policy as though it were singular, it’s really multi-form. One policy of the College is that
we do not construct any general facility for the College without assuming a student body population of 1,500. So Little
Library is built on that basis, the Commons is built on that basis, the new Sport Complex is built on
that basis. The other side of that is that we need to be realistic about the demographic situation that we
face over the next six to seven years and we are far more concerned to maintain the quality of the
student body that we currently have than we are to increase the size of the student body. And I think
probably by the mid-1990s we are going to see ourselves in the situation in which the addition of say 10
students a year, whatever, is increasingly difficult to do at the same time that you maintain the quality of the
students that you have attracted to the community. So I think there are going to be a lot of factors
to play into that. If I had to guess, I would say that the growth will be very gradual in
the next decade. It may go up 50 or so, but that’s speculation on my part. And it...will take some
careful planning on our part, because you don’t increase the student body without enhancing a lot of other things here
as well, and you have to plan for those in advance. It would be, in my judgment, folly to bring
in 100 additional students and not enhance the faculty, say by 10 positions, and that’s a lot of money to
do that. We would be doing everybody more of a disservice if we didn’t do it. So I think these
things have to move concurrently, and it’s far more prudent to do that gradually than it is to leap in
and do it all at once. So I think we will be just watching that on a year-to-year basis without
much sense that there will be radical changes at any given time.

Davidsonian: Last Tuesday, the faculty approved a change to the semester system by a vote of 56-50. Is this majority
enough to begin implementation of a semester system at Davidson?

Kuykendall: I think it is. Yes, I think we have no choice because a simple majority is all that is
required. I would hope that in the weeks and months ahead, those who have particular difficulties in certain parts of
this could be brought to a more positive orientation. And I think from the nature of the debate and from
the issues that were raised in last Tuesday’s meeting, my sense of the whole is that though there are some
strong preferences, there is no overwhelming reluctance on the part of most of those who may have voted no to
give us a try. I think 56 to 50 in this instance says something about the traditional caution with which
the Davidson faculty approaches curricular change and calendar change. And of course, there were a lot of issues involved in
this one package as it came forward. There may have been those who very much think that the sorts of
changes indicated in the curriculum are entirely warranted and didn’t like the calendar. There may have been others who liked
the calendar and thought that in the curricular area something had been left to size. So, it’s a very complicated
thing to carry a package like that to a faculty and discover any kind of consensus. And I have the
feeling that the further we go, the more the momentum will be to get on with the changes and discover
the ways in which it can be made. I’m confident that the Dean and others will be working closely with
departments that may have particular problems that need resolution, to see to it that those problems can be resolved in
the best possible fashion. And I don’t think we ought to minimize the fact that in some areas of the
College’s life the changes are going to be more radical than in others, and we need to honor that in
terms of the transitional period and the time given to specific departments to work on what needs to be accomplished
in the interim.

Davidsonian: Recently there was a student survey taken in which students expressed a number of opinions. One of those was
on the change to semesters. The percentages were fairly evenly divided between those who wanted semesters, those who wanted to
stay on the present term system, and those who were undecided. Do you think that the change to semesters should
reflect student opinion?

Kuykendall: Well, I would hope that everything that happens at the college reflects student opinion to some degree. I think,
truth to tell, matters of curriculum and calendar are faculty prerogatives though. I think that in this instance, as in
others, we ought to be attentive to what students have to say. I’m not sure that that always means we
do precisely what that constituency of the college family wants. I think it’s probably more important in terms of the
long-term future of the college that the faculty be convinced that this is the best way to do the educational
mission which we have set for ourselves. I had good and interesting conversations with students who have taken the calendar
piece of this package as the most significant. I happen not to believe that’s so, and I have not been
able in my own thinking about this to accord the same level of seriousness to the debate of terms vs.
semesters that I have to the sorts of academic enhancements that are involved in this proposal which has been made.
And I will be ready to grant that may be a failure on my part. I came to Davidson without
any clear perceptions that there were moral issues involved in the debate between the semester and the term and discovered
pretty early after my arrival that in the minds of some at least there are, and I don’t want to
disparage their perception. But I think that in many instances the conversation goes on at the level of convenience and
it’s sometimes not possible simply to talk at that level. I think that there are good things to be said
for both systems. I taught for 11 years under a system which is essentially a term system and I found
it a viable way to do education. I went to school most of the time under the semester system and
except for the fact that the semester system under which I was educated always had that desperate two weeks right
after Christmas before exams, which is not a part of the system that is proposed, I always thought the semester
system was O.K. too. I had a friend in one of my educational experiences who was pleading for what we
called the quarter system at that time, on the basis that it’s easier to make a first down than a
touchdown and I’m not sure that that holds water. But I think both calendar systems are viable ways of doing
education and sometimes a change is warranted because of educational concerns that would shuffle things around a bit. I think
the majority of the faculty feels it is that time at Davidson. Before I came to Davidson I also read
the debates in the minutes of the faculty which I think occurred a year before I came. I was interested
in seeing some of the dimensions of the debate at that time which had been of course brought up once
again this time.

Davidsonian: Will there be a supervisory committee to oversee the implementation of semesters?

Kuykendall: I’m sure there will be. I’m not sure at this juncture the educational policy committee will probably have the
responsibility for articulating the way that we go. And we will have to confront the issue as to whether or
not we can get started and get on with it in the course of next year and have it in
place. I’m sure that that’s the intention of the committee. Essentially we’ve got a lot of time and in another
sense we haven't got much time. We’ve got 15 months to see it to fruition and we've got a lot
to do in that period of time.

Davidsonian: Is there any particular president you especially admire?

Kuykendall: I admire my immediate predecessors whom I knew. I admire Dr. Spencer whom I’ve never worked with in this
college, but I admire him for what he did for this college in his years of presidency. President Martin gave
me my first job, and he may have been wrong to do it, but he was and is a man
who is a special hero of mine because of the human qualities but also obviously because of his great accomplishments.
His predecessor, Dr. Cunningham, I knew only slightly as a freshman and a sophomore. There was no person as distinguished
and overwhelming as he was as an individual; he was called “Slick John,” and he had plenty of hair. He
was the epitome of the gentleman, the well-educated, urbane, sophisticated, highly committed leader that was typical of college presidents fifty
years ago.
