Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Friday, November 6, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Now that you've gotten into Davidson,
IBM can help you get more out of it.

The road to graduation is paved with term papers, lab reports, cramming, all-nighters and, of course, exams. To ease that
journey and awaken your professors to your exceptional abilities, we suggest the newest member of the IBM Personal System/2™ family:
the Model 25 Collegiate.

It's a high-powered personal computer with advanced graphics capabilities, designed to fit on your desk without adding to the clutter.
And it comes with a generous 640 KB memory, two 3.5" diskette drives and a package every student can appreciate—a
big discount, plus Microsoft Windows 1.04, Write, Paint, Cardfile, IBM DOS 3.3 and a mouse.

Pop in the load-and-go diskette and your Model 25 Collegiate is set to help you write and revise long papers
and illustrate your points by combining words and graphics. So your professors will draw favorable conclusions about your work.

For more information on the Model 25 Collegiate, visit the IBM Education Product Coordinator on campus. You'll quickly learn how
to get the most out of the IBM Personal System/2.

Microsoft is a registered trademark of the Microsoft Corporation. IBM is a registered trademark and Personal System/2 is a trademark
of the International Business Machines Corporation.

---

SGA Update
By ROBERT SMALLEY

The Senate heard a report from Security and Parking Committee Chairman Dave Rochford, who had spoken with Chief Hughes. Rochford
informed the Senate that vandalism has decreased so far this year; even so, the committee remains vigilant in preventing similar
incidents and is especially capable of identifying strangers on campus.

The Faculty Executive Committee responded to the Senate request for the addition of reading days to the semester calendar; the
response took the form of a memo to SGA President Conrad Doenges. Though opposed to canceling the last day of
classes, the FEC announced that it had compromised by increasing the length of the examination period by one day. Hurried
students should therefore be able to take their exams early in the week and depart, while students desiring more study
time will be able to create their own reading days by simply postponing their exams.

Finally, Junior Class President Suzy Grant announced a Junior Class meeting which will take place on Tuesday, November 10 at
7:00 p.m. in the 900 Room. Ben Craig, Davidson alumnus and President of the First Union Corporation, will be the
featured speaker.
