Friday, January 9, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

One has to go on faith, even if he is not so sure of it. Go for it. Again, this
is what Art is all about, and metaphors for each other. This works both ways as well, whether based on
conscious, learned (formal) composition, tone, color theory in visual art, or on innate, intuitive levels, impulses, etcetera. One takes the
risk of producing something worse than what one intended, but a prime example of the combination of levels of choice.
Here, however, the gain or loss is money. In Art, the gain, there is no loss, is self-better understanding of
the nature of ‘what is’ for who that person is, and what that world is, their world.

This is only one facet of Art. Visual art can teach one the process of choice, risk, and gain which
is so fundamental to experience. Without choice, nothing would happen, in accordance with our ways of understanding. But Art teaches
us about this process. Obviously, theater, music, and creative writing are good candidates for the role, and other disciplines as
well. Yet one needs to see that anything can be Art if understood correctly. Soccer for me was an artistic
experience—the act of making choices, risking, and witnessing the outcome, learning and growing from the experience. The same purpose, although
here it is confrontation with the natural environment. Or cycling, anything. The art of conversation is a great example. Interaction
with people on a verbal level, experiencing the gains possible when one risks. What about learning, risking not knowing something,
or being wrong about that which you do not know, about that which you question (isn't this what goes on
in all classrooms?) By questioning in any situation, or activity, you can gain new knowledge and understanding of the phenomenological
world, and of who you are (and the relevance to the choices you make). Know why you are questioning. Again,
know why you are who and why you are. Question with reason, or at least confidence about the direction. The
more one engages oneself or interacts with the world at hand, whether books, people, a forest, or a classroom, the
more one learns, ultimately about who and what they are, and the world.

The evolution of our being ends at death, in our understanding, if death is indeed an end. We can be
lulled into ignorance, and stunt our growth process, however, if we allow ourselves to be subsumed to the comforts and
luxury of our modern, contemporary society. Though it would take monumental effort and energy to be completely attentive to the
potential of every moment of experience, we can at least remind ourselves periodically of the importance of this kind of
attention to the possibility of choice, lest we be lulled to sleep, become like robots, forgotten to the nature of
humanity. Routines are easier, and require less energy. Therefore do people submit to them so easily and readily. Routines do
have their function, but they are only tools for greater ends. So, the breakup of routine is important in keeping
awake. In keeping awake we are open to make gains toward self-knowledge, and thus fulfillment. Call it egocentric if you
will, but also disregard the fact that as you interact, questioning and risking, you will act as a catalyst for
others—“others who have eyes to see, and ears to hear”—others who are open, or on the edge to being open
to growth as well. So, one may think it egocentric, but the fact that interaction and education involve others, and
affect others’ knowledge and understanding, is undeniable. Only in the case of the ascetic is this untrue. For me (at
the present), as I alluded to earlier, people are invaluable and indeed, because we are a species and inextricably connected,
necessary in the process of experience and fulfillment, and therefore are essential to my life. In my world, the divine—or
God if you wish to call it that—is all that is around me, people and beings which partake in what
we call life, and the places which those things inhabit. I respect these things and places. Thus, interaction with all
of these things is necessary for my search for fulfillment, and again the sharing is fundamental to the process. Travel,
interaction with those of the “past” (i.e. reading, looking at art objects and other records of experience), and interaction with
nature is all part, and necessary for my search and experience, my life, through the question/choice process.

Obviously, a lifetime relationship can be one of the most significant and intimate experiences to fuel this process of growth,
with each person reflecting the other, both sharing the process or experience of life. It is an ultimate challenge, to
take the risks involved in such intimate interpersonal relationships, and one need not accept the challenge. But danger lies in
not choosing to meet the challenges and risks of the question/choice process inherent in any interaction, therefore denying growth, and
accepting the death of one’s humanity. What is life to you?

(I encourage any constructive criticism, or welcome any discussion or reaction to what is printed above, as an inherent part
of the process described.)

Michael Jarmon

Black

You cover the mourners collecting their tears turning black as they drip, forming—

tar which smothers the body with feathers turning black as they stick, forming

buzzards which shriek seeking death in my eyes turning black as I stare, forming

shapes in my room to tease and to haunt—the fears of a girl come to life in her mind turning
black.

Ann Cartledge

Michael Jarmon
