Wen Shan Xie

Davidson College, as one of the outstanding colleges in the South, is also known for its international orientation. The Dean Rusk Program directed by Dr. Perry is created for this special purpose. As a beneficiary of this program, and as a Chinese student who came to study at Davidson just a year ago, I take it as my responsibility to get Davidson students better acquainted with Chinese society. In my effort to do so, I will in this article answer one of the questions I have been repeatedly asked most recently. The question is so fundamental that by explaining my answer to it you will be introduced to the most important event that is happening in China — the economic reform.

Recently I have been asked by several friends as to whether China is becoming a capitalist country. This question is based on the fact that China, in its recent effort to reform the economy, has since 1978 adopted a series of economic policies that are generally regarded as “capitalistic.” Before committing myself to this question, I would first like to clear up one point. We all know that in the present world neither pure capitalism nor communism exists. So in this case we are really talking about “American capitalism,” which is most representative of world capitalism, versus “Chinese communism.” Having cleared up this point, my opinion is that while it is true that China has adopted some reform measures that are generally regarded as “capitalistic,” the nature of the country is still unchanged. Therefore my answer is that China is not becoming a capitalist country.

The guiding principle in the Chinese economic reform is pronounced by Chinese leader Deng Xiao-Ping in the Third Plenum of the 11th Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party in 1978: “To build socialism with Chinese characteristics.” This is a well-forged statement. What is socialism with Chinese characteristics? There is no precedent. This leaves Chinese leaders great flexibility in maneuvering the economy. However, this also shows the Chinese leaders’ determination not to model on any other country’s economic system, but to set up their own model. In the following passage, I will explain first why and secondly how the Chinese leaders attempt to do so, and in the meantime, I hope the facts I explain will make it clear why China is not becoming a capitalist country.

First, why do the Chinese leaders attempt to reform the economy under the principle of building socialism with Chinese characteristics? The Chinese economic system, in the early years of the communist regime, was largely modeled on that of the Soviet Union. Central planning economic system, public ownership of means of production. In the countryside even a family-owned cow was collectivized. The theory behind this is that people work to improve their common welfare. Material equality was heavily emphasized. These mark the basic difference from a capitalist economy which is based on private ownership; which emphasizes equality of opportunity, but not of results. In this respect, the capitalist system does seem to have its advantages for it provides incentive for each individual to improve himself, to fulfill, to a large extent, his or her potential, and this in turn will improve society in general. While in China, an economic system based on public ownership and an emphasis on equality provide little incentive for individuals to try their best. This inevitably slows down economic development.

Deng Xiao-Ping and his followers have long realized this serious problem and had tried, on several occasions, to correct it by adopting a more pragmatic approach. But for his pragmatism, Deng was twice demoted from his leadership, and was once sent to work in a tractor factory. Then after the former chairman of China Mao Zedong died in 1976, Deng gradually regained his leadership and in 1978 he started again to deal with the problem of the “lack of incentive” in the Chinese economic system. However, this proved no easy job, for an incentive system like American capitalism is based on inequality of results and on private ownership. This would mean, to the pragmatic leaders, the abandonment of material equality as well as public ownership. This would be committing political suicide for whoever chose to do so. Besides, a capitalist system based on private ownership is not all good, it has its own drawbacks. Deng and his followers are conscious of both of these. But something has to be done. It is against this background that a uniquely Chinese economic policy emerges. The policy is designed to solve the problem of “lack of incentive” while retaining the socialist nature of Chinese society, which is reflected by the general guiding principle of “building socialism with Chinese characteristics.” It is toward this goal all the present reform policies are formulated.

Secondly, how do the Chinese leaders attempt to solve the basic problem of “lack of incentive” while at the same time retaining the country’s socialist nature? The radical Chinese economic reforms, starting in 1978, underwent two major phases. The first phase was the “rural reform,” which was directed to reform the agricultural system. The second phase was the “urban reform,” which was directed to reshape the industrial structure.

The first phase of the reform, the “rural reform,” began in 1978. Its basic policies were formulated at the Third Plenum of the 11th Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party. Before the reform, people worked in collectives. The Chinese agricultural system in general was based on a “three level” ownership: the people’s commune, the production brigade, and the production team, with the last being the basic accounting unit. This system lacked incentive for the simple reason that people are working for the common welfare. To work for the common good is a theoretically sound idea, for what it really boils down to is that everyone is part ofthe Chinese society, and that in the long run if the society on the whole develops, so does the welfare of each individual. But in practice it is just the opposite, for what the individual peasant cares about most is his short-term self-interest. If he works harder than others he expects to get more for himself, but that is usually not the case, for the society on the whole emphasizes material equality, and to use material incentive as a lure to increase production is deemed contrary to the socialist ideal of equality. As a result, most people chose not to work hard. To solve this problem the government discarded the three-level ownership agricultural system and introduced a “household contract responsibility” system. Under this system, lands that were previously owned collectively were divided into small pieces and contracted out to individual households. The size was determined by the capable workforce of the family. The government set moderate quotas on each household and surplus after having met the quota could be sold on the free market at a higher price and the household retained the profit. This provided great incentive as well as pressure for the individual households who were now solely responsible for the piece of land contracted from the government. These measures greatly increased agricultural production. From 1978 to 1986 China had improved from being an importer to being an exporter of agricultural goods.

The second phase of the reform, the “urban reform,” was started on an experimental basis in late 1978. Before 1978, the Chinese urban economy was under a central planning system under which the central government planning committee would lay out a blueprint each year on the basis of previous performance and its plan for future development. The committee was also responsible for setting quotas for each production sector, and for playing a balancing role in the whole national economy. As a result of this over-centralized system, production units were heavily interdependent. So if one unit failed to meet its quota, it would cause a chain reaction. The whole system caused great inefficiency. In addition, under such a system production units were required to hand over all their profits to the central government, which would decide where to spend on the basis of overall need. Over-centralized planning deprived the basic production units of any decision-making power, and the initiatives at the grass-root level were greatly curbed. To deal with these problems, the government first undertook to decentralize the economy, making the basic production units independent entities, and the directors of these units responsible for their own management and their profits and losses. Secondly, instead of the previous practice of handing over all the profits to the central government, basic production units have now been required to pay taxes to the government and are permitted to keep those after-tax profits for the units’ own use. Thirdly, a number of small production units have been contracted out to individuals or groups of individuals. Fourthly, individuals have been allowed to run their own businesses. Fifthly, unit directors have been encouraged to a certain extent to base their production decisions on market supply and demand. These series of reforms have greatly changed the urban sector of the national economy as well as the relationship between the central government and its basic production units. It has provided great incentives for the leaders of these units to play a much more positive role in the economy. Because of the independent roles they now have to play, incapable leaders have gradually given way to more talented, well-educated ones. However, despite these changes, the state government still retains direct control of all the major industries, and, as in the rural reform, still sets moderate quotas on each production unit. Some market mechanisms have been allowed to come into play only after these quotas were met.

So far I have concerned myself mainly with the overall urban economic structural reform, but it is individual workers that form the basic element of this structure, and they are the decisive factors of the economy. Any policy that fails to deal correctly with individuals is doomed to failure. So at the same time the government was taking measures to reform the overall structure of the urban economy, it also took measures to “reform” individuals. Here again, the lack of incentive has been the fundamental problem. Before the reform, employees, all working in government-owned factories, drew fixed monthly wages on the basis of the length of time. For example, all the people that were hired in 1980 in a particular factory had the fixed monthly pay of, say, $50. Then two years later the wages of the whole group would be increased to $55. Then maybe ten to 15 years later the wage of this group would be increased again. There were no variations among the individuals within the group. This problem was further complicated by the lack of power of the directors to give serious punishments to those workers that were detrimental to production. This system lacked incentive because first, the wages were fixed according to how long one has worked, not his performance. Secondly, the director didn’t have the power to fire employees, because socialism emphasized equality and did not allow unemployment. This is the case even when the individual did not work, or quit work. To deal with these problems, several measures were taken. First, as a consequence of the decentralization, directors were given full power to run the unit, including the power of firing those detrimental to production. This power has not been used very often, but the mere existence has served as an effective deterrent. Secondly, workers since 1982 have been put under a “contract worker” system. Under this system the employer had the power to prolong or reenter a contract if both parties were willing to. He also had the power to end the contract for good reasons. Continued to page 13.