Football’s Division I blues, p. 9
Volume LXXVIII, Number 3
The Davidsonian
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, October 2, 1987

Shopping Center Gore
CALL: GRETCHEN SHEETS 704/523-0272
Developed By: Groslan, Erwin

By GEORGE KURANI

Rumors around Davidson lately have it that the local Food Lion grocery store is going to close soon. How much
truth can be attributed to these rumors? Well, for right now, no one, even the people at the Food Lion,
can be exactly sure what will happen in the next few weeks. Chuck Kyles, manager of the Davidson Food Lion,
said that there was a “good, strong possibility” that the store would be closing soon. But he was quick to
emphasize that it was only a possibility. He also said that if the store closes it would be on November
1.

“I’m just guessing when I say that we might be closing soon,” Kyles said. “They (Food Lion management) don’t tell
us anything like that until the last minute.” (Food Lion officials did not return calls made by the Davidsonian.)

By FRANK FOLGER and WALT REYNOLDS

The sixth anniversary of the freshman international awareness test has once again resulted in a higher class average than the
previous year. Professor Hansford Epes, who is in charge of modifying the test each year, reported that the average of
all the scores on this year’s test had risen 2.5% over last year’s scores, which had been 1% higher than
the previous year.

Opinions: Page 11
CROP walk wrap-up

FOOD LION & KERR DRUGS

The opening of this Cornelius Food Lion may force the Davidson store to close.

Davidson Food Lion to close November 1
Shut-down almost certain

An informed Davidson community source said, however, that the store would definitely close very soon and that it would start
moving employees by the end of October. The Food Lion in Davidson has been open for five years and was
preceded by a Lowes grocery store. According to Kyles, the Lowes store was not able to survive either. Kyles also
said that the main problem concerning the Food Lion is that many people have the misconception that the store does
not stock a wide variety of products.

“A lot of people have the impression that Food Lion isn’t a full market store,” Kyles said. “We are large
enough,” he continued, “but we just don’t do enough volume to generate the income we need to stay in business.”

An important question that many are asking around Davidson is what will replace the Food Lion if in fact the
store closes. The shopping center in which the Food Lion is located is owned by the Four Seasons Developing Company,
which in turn is managed by Shamrock Management located in Charlotte. Abraham Luski, an official at Shamrock Management, said that
his firm had not received any notification that Food Lion will be leaving the shopping center.

“I can’t make a prediction about who could be moving in since we have not heard any official news from
Food Lion as a company,” Luski said.

The only other alternative was to try to find some answers through the Food Lion management in Salisbury. The main
problem, however, was that no one who could discuss the matter was ever in his office or took the time
to return any phone calls.

Rusk program misses goal
By JON BOLES

After starting up the 1987-88 school year with the appearance of guest speaker Lord Max Beloff, Alumni campaigns in Atlanta
and Texas have assembled almost one million dollars.Duke Endowment has added the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies and is
changing its course to enable it to increase fundraising efforts. “We've tried very hard to build an excellent program,” commented
director Jack Perry, “and after making the initial splash, we now want to solidify.” Of the ten million dollars originally
projected for the endowment of the program, only three million have been raised to date, and one major problem, according
to Dr. Perry, is that “we have, with a few notable exceptions, not attracted a large inflow of donations over
the last two years.” The program is completely independent in its fundraising. “The initial conception was that we would not
be a drain on the college budget, but rather raise money as we go along.”

Funding thus far has come in from three major sources: alumni gifts, the Duke Endowment, and corporate sponsorships.

Freshman international scores improve; males beat females again. This year’s scores, administered to freshmen during freshman orientation, is a project
of the In- Epes indicated that this year’s class average was a little under 55 on a 100-point scale. Although
Epes stressed that this test cannot be viewed under the light of a letter grade scale and indicated that a
score of 55 was not bad. For the first time in six years, someone scored a perfect 100, according to
Epes. He further disclosed that this year’s male score was substantially higher, nearly 17% higher, than this year’s female score.
He indicated that in previous years of administering the test, he had found that freshmen males performed substantially better than
females on this test. He suggested that this may be the result of differing reading behaviors among high school students
but at the same time illustrated how that discrepancy disappeared in the college years. Freshman input on the test has
been limited, partly due to the fact that freshmen have not received their scores yet. But one freshman who spoke
with Epes said he thought the test was very easy.

Sports: Football drops another one in blowout. Page 8

Movie Reviews: No nudity in this week’s Union films. Pages 5-7

Continuing on Page 4:

In addition, several corporations have donated generous amounts earmarked for specific aspects of the program, among them NCNB, which has
given $250,000 to establish a fund specifically for an annual conference; the Ford Motor Corporation, whose $100,000 grant is used
to bring in speakers, and AT&T, which has provided the money to bring in both Arkady Shevchenko and Col. Fred
Cherry, author of Bloods, in the past two years. This year fewer speakers will be coming to campus, and many
of those who do will be concentrating on the theme of the conference on world hunger planned for this spring.
Another change in the program’s activities on campus is the move to coordinate efforts with other groups such as the
open lunch committee, which will co-sponsor speaker Thomas Greene on the 14th of October. In the past two years, the
program has brought literally scores of speakers to campus, including authors, diplomats, scholars, and businessmen, as well as organizing teach-ins,
sponsoring an international opportunities night, and hosting annual conferences for the expressed purpose of giving “each student, first, an informed
awareness of our whole planet, and second, direct knowledge of at least one foreign area.”

News: New professor profiles
