Features By TOM MOORE

The 1987 Rusk Scholars have been in America for four full weeks and seem to have adjusted quite well. The
six Britons will be attending various universities in England next year and are spending the spring term here taking two
classes apiece pass/fail. All graduated from British secondary schools last year and have been on break since then.

Martin MacConnol noted that Americans seem to be “bigger and more fit” than the average British student. “You also all
look so old.” MacConnol wasn’t doing much in the way of observing such American phenomena as he was being interviewed;
he was simulating being blind for the day for his psychology class.

Jane Ewbank spent eighth grade in Washington D.C. as her mother taught English at Georgetown University and the University of
Maryland, and missed “corn chips, cherry Lifesavers, Oreos, and American supermarkets. In American supermarkets, everything smells good, is prepackaged, there
are six types of everything,” she said enthusiastically. “The soft drink aisle goes from here to tomorrow.”

Peter Dzendrowskyj admits that his name isn’t typically English, but rather lamely excused it away by saying his family was
from Australia. (Actually, it’s a Polish name.) He plans to spend today being blind for psychology.

Julian Mylchreest commented on Davidson students’ ability to work all day, then “throw a switch, and there’s a party. Everything
is to extremes.” He sees most Davidsonians viewing Davidson as “an oasis of intense pressure in the countryside,” almost being
somewhere where it wasn’t intended. He can’t figure out why Americans seem to eat so much.

Holly Carter decided to come here because “it is a good way to lap up another culture that is parallel
to England. The best way to understand a culture is to live and work in it,” she said.

Rosamond “Roz” Roughton can be distinguished by the purple-gray, rather sadly beaten-up hat almost invariably found on her head. Roughton,
like many of the scholars, has been struck by American hospitality. She expected superficiality “but it’s not like that at
all. I actually feel guilty now about English reserve. I don’t think that Americans in England would get the same
reception we have.”

“People go out of their way to help you here,” Carter agreed. She also commented on contrasts between U.S. and
British education. “It’s so different here, the way you carry on the classes,” she said. “In the seminars, people will
just talk and someone will say ‘Hey, what’s the deal?’ It’s very laid back.”

The concept of the liberal arts education also seems foreign to the scholars. “I’m so used to specialization,” said Carter.
“I’ve spent the last two years studying English literature. We get into more detail,” but lose the diversity. “If you
choose French, you do only French,” said Ewbank. “Far fewer go on to grad school.” The structure of English schools
tends also to be less tight than Davidson’s. “You learn what you want; it’s very much up to you.”

The Rusk scholars seem to be taken with “Americanisms” they have noted so far. “Shit happens,” the blindfolded MacConnol said
cheerily after accidentally pouring a milkshake up his nose.

Roughton found her first few days here depressing, but “things are looking up” since she was escorted to Charlotte to
get a denim jacket. She finds Davidson’s setting a bit limiting; “There aren’t people our age around who aren’t with
the college,” she said.

Fraternities and sororities are not seen in England. Carter is impressed by the initiative and responsibility of the members. “In
England you have the (student) union, and a small group of people run this, and the rest of the students
join.” Here, “each house sets up these parties, goes out and hires the caterers... It’s responsibilities that Americans pick up
that I’m not sure the English would,” she said.

Mylchreest noted that the fraternities are valuable as “pressure valves, but a little cliquish.” They’re “not different, but they don’t
quite tie in” with his initial impression of Davidson in that it’s difficult to break into a group.

Dzendrowskyj commented that most Britons have “no comprehension of the size of America. You can drive for ten hours (in
England) and go from the deep south all the way to Scotland.”

MacConnol stated that many Americans view Britain “as a country with a past but without a future.” “I’m quite happy
with England as a second-rate country, but I wish they’d (Britons) admit it,” he said. Ewbank also sees the opposite:
“Americans are seen as having no past but a lot of future,” she said. “The school the boys were at
was founded not long after America was discovered.”

Americans tend to be “struck by London as glamorous,” Carter says, and tend to think that all Londoners are highly
educated, regardless of the reality: “It doesn’t matter how they talk,” just so long as they have a British accent,
laughed Carter.

Carter affirms that England “doesn’t want to be the 51st state,” but noted that the majority of the Rusk Scholars
see British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher “as Reagan’s lap dog.” Most Britons hold realistic views about...England’s world status. It’s “Rule
Britannia” for some, mostly young right-wingers and older people, she said. “It’s not like we’re completely different,” said Roughton. “We've
absorbed so much of America.” She noted that there was a bigger difference in going to France, just across the
English Channel, than it is coming to the U.S. “It’s not quite like going abroad.”

Dzendrowskyj says that he arrived here with a “slightly anti-American” bent due to unpleasant experiences with American tourists back home.
His view has changed: “I suppose they’re the same way when they’re here, though,” he said. He noted that Davidson
wasn’t quite what he expected (Reagan, religion, and Republicanism). “Most people aren’t as I envisaged,” he said. Also, he expected
less rain than the region has received recently.

“Americans don’t know much about England,” said Mylchreest. “They have set ideas; it’s a power that’s gone,” even that it
rains all the time. “The U.S. is a world leader, but they don’t like anyone else’s opinions; they box themselves
off.” There is a fair amount of hostility in England toward the U.S., he said, because of the trade situation.
“The U.S. is seen as intervening” and buying up British companies left and right. “They are seen as good guys,
but with too great a sense of their own importance,” he said.

In the field of humor, also, Americans are different, Mylchreest said. “American humor is much more direct, more blunt. I
think that few American comedians are able to transfer over.” He said that English humor tends to draw on the
typical and the everyday as its source. Dzendrowskyj punctuated his remarks with references to Monty Python routines. “They’re very popular
in England. ... That and ‘Fawlty Towers’ (a short-run British sitcom starring John Cleese) are the epitome of British humor.”
He also said that Benny Hill's variety show, while popular in the United States, was just a passing fad in
England.

As far as American television goes, Carter likes “Cheers,” particularly Sam and Diane, “but all the other regulars make me
want to throw up.” Dzendrowskyj said that “Top Gun,” while drawing young women in search of Tom Cruise, was not
too popular an import. Much more successful, he said, are “Platoon” and “The Mission.” Australian import “Crocodile Dundee,” also the
U.S.’s biggest imported film ever, was very popular. “Shit, like, ‘Animal House,’” Roughton laughed, quoting her friends at home and
doing a fairly good Belushi. She said that many of her friends viewed America as the land of the Blues
Brothers and Animal House.

Carter took exception to the portrayal of England in such popular American TV series as “Brideshead Revisited”: “Oxford’s not really
like that,” she insisted. “Americans tend to see England as either very quaint or as the height of aristocracy.” MacConnol
sees Douglas Adams’s “Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy” series of novels as “quite accurate” in its portrayal of England. He
claims to have brought his towel, but Carter admitted she was lacking hers. Dzendrowskyj brought his, but Mylchreest hadn’t read
the book.

### Petanque: Not bowling with a French accent

By JENNIFER HOFFMAN

Forget all notions of pins, spares, and strikes — petanque is up a different alley altogether. Thierry Rousset, a foreign
exchange student from Lattes, France, has brought this sport to Davidson where it is gaining increasing popularity. Rousset cites the
game’s simplicity as one of its most appealing qualities, making it fun even for the beginner. Another plus is that
it requires very little equipment: one wooden marker, two or three metal balls with various identifying stripes for each player,
an open patch of land, and two to six people.

Preparation involves drawing a circle approximately one and a half inches in diameter at both ends of the playing field.
Standing within this circle, a player from the team chosen to go first throws the small wooden ball or “boot”
a distance of six to ten yards. That player then throws his first metal ball, aiming for the wooden marker.
Next, a player from the opposing team throws, attempting to get his ball closer to the mark than the first
team. If he is successful, his opponent tries again. If he is unsuccessful, he and his teammates continue to throw
until one of their balls lands closer or until they are out of balls. Play alternates back and forth according
to whichever team’s ball lies the least distance from the target. When both teams have thrown all of their balls,
the team nearest to the marker wins, receiving one point for every ball of theirs which is closer than the
nearest ball of their opponents. The second game begins at the opposite end of the field. A team must accumulate
13 points to win.

Although the rules are simple, petanque packs plenty of challenges. Any method of throwing is acceptable, but the “expert” style
involves an overhand toss with just the right amount of backspin. As player Ranjit Rawlley put it, it requires “finesse.”
The more advanced players rely on complex strategies such as defensive... (Continued to page 5)
