Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

LEANING AGAINST THE LAMP-POST

(one day) lighting up time: 6.38 pm

leaning against the lamp-post beneath the street lamp. a haggard skeleton

(another day) lighting up time: 6:42 pm

whose synovial fluid dry, cracked and crackled with time. its dark. illuminati fused bulbs, "howed electrical genius of a spurious
industry a silhouette a catapult’s bulls-eye hits. with Dota in the lamp shade. feathered chatterers the lights fade into brightness
after perched on a matrix and darkness thereafter of twigs and electrical wires, into a hallowed halo. pecked at the
claustrophobia of the argonised confinement. remains night-time destitutes devoured breathe finish paroxysms of heavy air. by scavengers. moths but the
palpitating heart flutter throbs silently. around. spotting interludes their blemished wings of Sweep occupancy down. leaning against the lamp-post. describing
an unquestioned International Student, INDIA.

It's with immense pleasure that I take up this assignment, having been asked to serve as the new ‘Inside Art
Editor’. I am really excited at this prospect and hope to revitalize this section of the Davidsonian newspaper. I, as
a literary and arts editor, strongly feel that only the materials which have the basic ‘publishable’ standards in terms of
quality of work ought to be printed. This simply means that we will not bring out an issue of Inside
Art just because it is due that particular week. If there is a lack of ‘quality’ material, then the issue
would be deferred until I receive enough submissions that are worthy of publication. I personally believe that it is extremely
important to maintain a strict level of standard.

Another editorial policy change regarding this section is that now Inside Art is open to anyone and everyone who wishes
to be creative. This section is open to all members of the Davidson community — faculty, students, administrators, and the
townspeople. It is NOT just limited to students. Contributions are preferred on diskettes which are compatible with the IBM PC
with one print-out copy of the written work. All sorts of contributions are accepted — poems, short stories, photographs, drawings,
sketches, designs, graphics: anything as long as they are your original work which you consider good!

In this issue, we feature the four Davidson students who were the finalists at the Hollins College 27th Literary Festival
at Roanoke, Virginia. Out of the 12 finalists for the Poetry Prize, four were Davidsonians; and out of the 6
Fiction prize finalists, one was from Davidson. Jim Dillon, a major, won the runners-up prize.

Please feel free to contact me anytime (Sentelle 103, Tel: 704/892-6248). You can either post your submissions to P.O. Box
4071, Davidson College, Davidson, NC 28036; or leave it under the door of my room; or leave it in the
‘Inside Art Box’ at the College Union desk. Anyone who wants to work with me is most welcome. I thank
Alex Hayden for printing the photographs. I am looking forward to your contributions.

Yours truly,

SUDEEP SEN
Inside Art Editor

---

DRIVING HOME

When my father was in college Frank Pitts killed his four daughters and then killed himself, a double-barrelled shotgun held
under his chin, the trigger pulled with his thumb. My grandfather always said that his brains were "splattered all over
the ceiling."years ago I believed him in the way that only small children can believe. Whoever had owned the land
on which the oak tree stood sold it to Champion. When I was ten or eleven, some nights my father
would drive me past the oak tree on the dirt road that marked where his house once stood. He would
turn off the car lights and tell me about Frank Pitts, the crazy one. I'd cry, and he'd laugh, and
we'd drive on, with me jumping and starting at every sudden sound.

The land is clear-cut now, ugly bare earth and the bones of trees, red mud and dead limbs and paper
the logging crew left. Today, driving home down that same dirt road that I used to fear so intensely, I
realized that I no longer know where Frank Pitts’ house once stood.

WILL HOLLOWAY '87

DAD

There are tubes coming out of Dad at Richland Memorial Hospital, you told me on the phone, your voice a
little shaky and out of breath. When I was three, I'd wake up at 6 a.m. so Dad and I,
the men of the family, could shave together, me using a razor with no blade, you asleep and very pregnant.
At eight, I had to play basketball since Dad was always good but never tall enough, and me, his lanky
son. Every time I fouled up on court, I could hear his breaths get deeper and sense the vein on
his forehead about to burst with a spray of blood. Eventually, the game would end and we would come home.
I would scream I hate basketball, and please don’t make me go back. Dad would say try harder.

At thirteen, I tried out for plays and began taking piano. Dad would just laugh and call them artsy-fartsy things.
Then he’d dodge over to the piano and play Chopsticks, explaining that he could play the piano too. At fifteen,
I gave a speech that made everyone cry, and they gave me a standing ovation, all rushing up and hugging
me afterwards. Dad sat there with the tape recorder. Later, he would play it back to neighbors, imitating the moans
and groans of my friends.

And you, on the phone, you want me to say I'm upset, that I’m sorry, that I hope he gets
better. You want me to come home. You want me to cry. You want me to drive Angela and Amy
home from the hospital and then come pick you up when you're ready to go. You want me to scream
at the doctors when they won’t tell you what the hell is going on because you’re always quiet and polite.
You want me to hug you when I look up from a copy of People Magazine to see you crying
in the waiting room, and just sit and hug you because you need a hug, and I want to hug
you, and I hate to hurt you.

But Mom, I can’t come home to Dad to see that man lying in a bed, watching machines make him
breathe and nurses check on him and doctors do God knows what with his body. I can’t. Because I want
so much to be three and shaving with no blade and no whiskers, and Dad at the sink, just grinning
at me, his son.

JIM DILLON '89

SWEET APPLES

Sweet apples, rich and round, don’t rot before you eat them with your pink and tender lips and silky tongue
and polished teeth that pour your salivations as your stomach sips the apple from its core into a new and
larger core whose limbs grow far and wide apart to reach into the liquid blue, clear sky that washes orchards
that supplied the peel, so crisply wet and thin and red, in yellow bile now mixed until the blue veins
pick the orchards’ apples grown to thread across the human orchard centuries grew. Sweet friend, tend your ground, don’t rot
before you're swallowed, threaded through a fertile floor.

J. ALLEN SMITH ‘88
