Commentaries
The Davidsonian
Friday, December 11, 1987

Bogert's stereotypes reveal narrowness of mind
- John Harris

Well, you’ve got brass ones, Mr. Bogert! I applaud your zeal in your column in the “Opinions” section last week
(Davidsonian, 4 December 1987), but, alas, I come to bury Ken Bogert, not to praise him. But being cursed with
a rather verbose and circular writing style I will try to make this as brief and painless as possible. Well,
at least brief.

Bogert’s views on the Davidson fraternity system are, to me, perfectly valid, and I fully support his right to express
his own opinion. However, his approach to the topic of the (implied) necessity to abolish the system is handled with
unsurpassed narrowness of mind. In trying to outline what could be a reasonable argument for a re-evaluation of the function
of fraternities on Davidson’s campus, Mr. Bogert resorts to using stereotypes and low blows. (Incidentally, if I were a member
of FIJI, my lawyer would already be on the phone with Bogert’s having a nice little chat about libel.)

In said column, Mr. Bogert spends the majority of his allotted space emphasizing quite colorfully the various stereotypes associated with
the seven campus fraternities (I refuse to refer to them as “frats.” What a horrid word!). Following his elaborations, he
very unconvincingly tries to deny any belief in what he has just written, yet he resumes his condemnations based on
the factionalism fraternities allegedly spawn. One can only assume he became very dizzy changing directions that quickly.

I find it difficult to believe that anyone who would so adamantly highlight such negative stereotypes can reasonably expect a
reader of the column to take him seriously when Bogert disclaims the views as being personal. Furthermore, Bogert’s descriptions of
the various stereotypes are by no means particularly insightful. I feel safe in saying that a healthy portion of the
college community was aware of these stereotypes long before Kenny-boy hopped on his high-horse with his typewriter to enlighten us.
He seems to have overlooked the fact that due to the nature of the community in which we currently live,
a respectable number of us are presumably above letting our educated, open minds fall into such social traps as casting
or adhering to these stereotypes.

Bogert’s principal belief in this matter, I believe, is that fraternity factionalism has a negative impact on our beloved community.
It saddens me to thus realize that Bogert is apparently incapable of seeing beyond the factionalism to the other truths
about the functions and purposes of fraternity life. Apparently, community service projects, development of brotherhood and fellowship, and emotional and
spiritual growth among fraternity members take a back seat to the destruction of lampposts on Bogert’s list from the “outside”
looking in. He seems to be judging a fraternity’s impact on its individual brothers by the image the fraternity as
a whole projects to those who believe in stereotypes.

Hopefully, most of the readers of Bogert’s column realize that to a certain degree his tongue is planted firmly in
his cheek. But it is nonetheless frightening to consider that his staunch criticisms and needlessly sarcastic exaggerations may very possibly
sway a freshman from seriously investigating each fraternity, its respective members, and what it has to offer to the individual.
Bogert insinuates that a fraternity’s whole is less than the sum of its parts. He has made known his impression
of the “whole.” Can he honestly claim to be familiar with its “parts”? It’s doubtful. Can he honestly believe that
the “Damn Commanches” with whom he associates are not merely another example of the factionalism he so fiercely opposes?

My purpose in writing this is not to sling mud at Mr. Ken “Why-should-I-look-at-the-whole-picture-when-my-views-will-suffice-quite-nicely,-thank-you” Bogert. Rather, the purpose here is
to attempt to preserve the very real and inherent integrities and advantages a Brotherhood offers young men. Fraternities may not
be suited for everyone and vice-versa, but the right to choose should lie in the hands of the individual, without
the cloud-cover of controversy looming overhead. Destructive and close-minded attitudes such as Bogert’s are much more dangerous to this community
than even the fiercest of the superficial rivalries.

John Harris ‘90 is an English major from Memphis, TN.

A fraternity stands for friendship, not factions
- Grier Stewart

I need a fraternity. Fraternities enhance my life, socially and otherwise. They do not affect my individualism in any way.
Fraternities are about friendship... brotherhood. That’s what the word means. Factionalism is not what fraternities are all about. In some
cases, however, that is an unfortunate side effect. These cases, though, are the exception and not the rule.

Before I continue with my explanation of what fraternities are all about, allow me to briefly discuss Mr. Bogert’s opinion.
The article was first and foremost unfair to the fraternities and the freshmen not yet familiar with the houses. Many
of his stereotypes were outright lies. Let’s begin with Fiji (Phi Gamma Delta), one of the oldest and finest of
the national fraternities. Mr. Bogert uses the term “drug addict” in reference to these young men. However, the last I
heard they had the strongest anti-drug bylaws at Davidson. It is the continuation of such rumors by Mr. Bogert and
others which gives that chapter such a difficult time. A second point is that drug use is not limited to
just one fraternity or for that matter even just fraternities.Example of an unfair statement concerns Mr. Bogert’s assessment of Kappa
Alpha and General Robert E. Lee. General Lee’s profession was that of a soldier, and he was from Virginia; therefore,
when Virginia went to war, so did he. This loyalty is very honorable as I think all but pacifists will
agree. He was not a supporter of slavery. George Washington and Thomas Jefferson each owned more than one hundred slaves;
however, we have no trouble admiring their ideals.

My last example concerns the fraternity of which I am a brother, Phi Delta Theta. It seems that Mr. Bogert
characterizes me as violent and immature and believes that I should beat N.C. State or Carolina. Well, nobody has ever
called me violent. In fact, one of my faults may be that I am too nice. I was in my
last fight at age 15. It was with my brother. I gave him a concussion. I was grounded until graduation,
and that sort of discouraged any other scuffles. I know what you're saying... I’m the exception. I don’t believe that
I am. As far as immaturity, I don’t know of a more mature bunch of guys. Twenty of my 46
fraternity brothers go out every Saturday afternoon during fall term to get bruised while supporting Davidson the best they know
how. And the thanks they get from the student body is none, bar criticism for losing to financially and physically
superior teams. Every week they lick their physical and emotional wounds and go on, knowing that next week they will
again suffer the same ridicule. Mr. Bogert, which is the more immature group?

These are just the most noticeable (to me) of Mr. Bogert’s unfair statements. Please do not think this is all.
I believe all of the fraternities were slandered to some extent. Now, I will continue with my explanation of what
a fraternity is. A fraternity stands for friendship. It is a family in a harsh environment. Your brothers are people
you can turn to in times of crisis or emotional trauma. Although most fraternities are very close-knit groups, very few
are closed, especially at Davidson. Almost all parties are open and are basically a gift to the student body from
the fraternity brothers. I believe that all will admit that without the fraternities, social life at Davidson would be a
little lacking. I think Mr. Bogert would agree with me on this. (I ran into him at Sig Ep last
Friday night.) It would be both a shame and dangerous to force social life off campus. Furthermore, fraternity members do
not associate only with their brothers. Ask my roommate. He’s an independent.

Now let me mention the parts of a fraternity which the non-members rarely hear about. Scholarship. That’s right, boys and
girls, scholarship is one of the high priorities of fraternities. Most national fraternities give major awards to academically superior chapters.
Davidson’s fraternities (when last I checked) have a higher GPA than the campus average. We even check to see which
house has the highest. A little harmless competition never hurt anyone. We even have a scholarship chairman (That’s right... even
Phi Delt). Speaking of offices... How many non-fraternity members know that we have chaplains? Fraternities are Christian organizations. We do
service projects and raise money for charities. Another part of fraternities that few people see is the management side. All
of the houses on the court manage budgets in excess of $50,000, some even twice that. Fraternities mount massive rush
campaigns requiring organization and hard work. With these skills, fraternity members can get a head start on the demanding job
of life. Phi Delta Theta has among its brothers U.S. presidents, the chairman of AT&T, astronauts, and Hollywood actors. Davidson
Phi Delt brothers include Wyche Fowler, John Kuykendall, Joe Gardner, and Jamie May. (Ask someone if you don’t recognize the
names.) Kit Morris is also a Phi Delt. The other fraternities on campus have equally impressive lists of alumni. Fraternities
must be doing something right to produce such individuals. This brings up another point, individualism. Some people believe that fraternities
and individualism are mutually exclusive; however, individualism is necessary in a successful fraternity. Without it, the organization will...

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that adhere to
the following guidelines:
- All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the campus community.
- Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written. The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5”
IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we're partial to them).
- All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Tuesday before the expected publication date.
- All commentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Monday before the expected publication date, except for those
on diskette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Tuesday.
- All submissions must be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their
names printed with their work.
- The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style, but for the rules of English grammar only.
Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter.
- The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable material, or which
represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed dealing with the same topic.
- All submissions should include the author's address and phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section should include the following
information: the author’s home city and state, graduating class, and major field of study (or profession).
