‘Wednesday, January 28, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN.

—Bleacher Seat

~ Citadel controls —
Wildcat wrestlers

———-~ By MIKE ADAMS

Redemption. That’s the best word for it. The Davidson basketball team has redeemed the Wildcat fan — a species which became forlorn and disgruntled in the football season — from a sad state of athletic apathy.

The Wildcat cagers pounded, annihilated, destroyed, maimed, and mauled East Tennessee and Appalachian State this past week. There really are not sufficient adjectives to describe the dominating aspects of the victories.

And what do these two victories mean to the downcast gridiron fan? Well, ETSU ended a 15-game losing streak when they drubbed the Cats and Appalachian delivered a 63-7 massacre in their homecoming game. The Wildcat fan was at a low ebb.

This is not to belittle the football team; they worked hard and played hard, but over the long stretch, they were outmanned and outmuscled by scholarship programs with large proportions of muscleheads. But the fan doesn’t base his emotions on things like trying hard; he or she wants wins. We may be able to rationally accept the reasons for the losses, but we are still emotionally numbed by 57-point margins.

The emotional numbness and athletic apathy are over now, thanks to the basketball squad. The Cats beat ETSU and Appalachian by a combined margin of 64 points. That, folks, is a drubbing of the first order. Ain't revenge sweet?

By MARK HARRIS

Wednesday night the Davidson wrestling team traveled to Charleston, South Carolina to face the Bulldogs of The Citadel. A Southern Conference powerhouse, The Citadel dominated most of the meet, winning by a score of 44-6.

In the first match, freshman Holme Oltrogge hyperextended his knee, forcing the Wildcats to forfeit his match.

Both senior Mike Adams (126) and freshman Bruce Newsome (134) were pinned early in their match.

Sophomore Sherb Sentell (167) lost an exhausting match, 16-2, and heavyweight senior Gary Branch lost a close match, 1-2.

The Wildcats also forfeited matches at the 142, 158, and 190-pound divisions.

The meet was highlighted by co-captains senior John T. Lay and junior Tim Heinze. Lay wrestled perhaps the best match of his season and defeated a tough opponent 9-2. Heinze sparked excitement in a verbose cadet crowd with a come-from-behind victory late in the third period. Heinze narrowly won by a score of 8-6.

The “Wildcat Ten” have been plagued by injuries. During the Virginia Tech match, junior Doug Bachelor suffered a separated shoulder that ended his season. This injury left a hole in the lineup in the 158-pound class. Also, Adams is wrestling with a bad back, Sentell has a bruised thigh, and Branch has a chipped bone in his thumb.

The Washington and Lee Invitational was canceled this past weekend and gave the Wildcats time to recover.

Johnston Gym’s Backrow Bunch — Emil Cekada, Perry “The Whistler” Mathewes, Tom Ridenhour, et al. — often started a chant of “In your face” after dominant Davidson plays. Although this chant was primarily a response to great plays in the game at hand, it was also a gut-level, emotional response to these two schools who had beaten the Cats so badly on the football field. Look, the chant was saying, we accept the fact that you could beat our overmatched football team, but now that we have got you on an equal footing, scholarship for scholarship, we're pounding the daylights out of you.

Two visitors from Chapel Hill remarked after Saturday’s game that they could not believe the noise level and emotional intensity of the Davidson fans. They said that the atmosphere in the Dean Dome could not approach it. Well, they didn’t have to suffer through a football season in which it took both hands to count the losses. We understand redemption and revenge here at Davidson.

We've got two more big revenge games in Johnston Gym. Marshall beat the Wildcat football team 63-14 and Furman handed the Cats their worst defeat of the season, 59-0. Both schools are also at the top of the basketball standings at the moment.

Be warned Marshall and Furman. No matter what happens in your gym, you still have to come to ours. So far, payback is hell.

Sign up for Army ROTC Basic Camp. You'll get six weeks of challenges that can build up your leadership skills as well as your body. You'll also get almost $700. But hurry. This summer may be your last chance to graduate from college with a degree and an officer's commission. Be all you can be. See your Professor of Military Science for details.

Friday evening entertainment on our back porch
Healthy Snacks and Sandwiches!

Imported BEER and WINE

Downtown Davidson

See Capt. David Strong