— David Host —

Recent criticism of the Reagan Administration’s policy of aid to the “Contras” fighting the Sandinista government of Nicaragua has turned
to an exoneration of that government. Groups have returned from Nicaragua claiming that the Sandinistas are a peace-loving, democratically based
government. They also have claimed that the Sandinistas pose no threat to the security of the United States. Such critics
conclude that American aid to a force fighting such a government is “immoral,” threatening the lives of Nicaraguans and Americans
who may be called to fight in the region. The peaceful and life-preserving intents behind such an analysis are commendable.
The facts of the crisis in Nicaragua and Central America, however, show that such a position threatens those goals.

The Sandinista government, in its efforts to consolidate its Marxist-Leninist revolution, has continually tyrannized over Nicaraguans. In the Castro tradition,
it threatens to spread its revolution over the entire region. The Contras stand as one of the few forces left
in Central America which can prevent such a catastrophe without the aid of American troops.

Witness for Peace stated that it found no evidence of religious persecution by the Sandinista government. It said it found
“no harassment of priests, ministers or religious workers,” “no destruction of church property,” and “no interruption of religious services.” In
fact, the Sandinistas have persecuted the religious leaders who have refused to submit to their ideology. Humberto Belli, who edited
the opposition newspaper La Prensa, a newspaper recently censored by the Sandinistas, has stated that “Commander Tomas Borge... said there
would be religious freedom for those who were with the revolution, but for those who were deceiving people and preaching
negative attitudes their days were numbered.” In addition to censorship of sermons, Sandinistas have disturbed masses with political demonstrations, including
a mass by the Pope. They have also destroyed churches. Other evidence of Sandinista oppression abounds. Alvaro Baldizon Aviles, a
former Sandinista official, reports the actions of “Sandinista death squads,” covered up by the government. One report involves an attack
upon Miskito Indians by “Sandinista soldiers who locked all the men in the church and then raped and beat the
women, sacked most of the houses and slaughtered most of the cattle.” Baldizon has implicated high Sandinista officials in such
actions, who are involved in “systematic deception of foreign visitors” in relation to them. Opposition to such a regime is
critical to the future freedom of all Nicaraguans.

The Sandinistas also threaten the freedom of the remainder of Central America, and, eventually, American security. The United States, for
example, presently supports a progressive, freely elected Salvadoran leader in Jose Napoleon Duarte. Duarte has attempted to draw El Salvador
away from the influence of right-wing “death” squads, and has introduced land reform as a means of ending economic injustice.
The Sandinistas, however, wish to overthrow this government. Salvadoran rebels have admitted that their war depends upon the aid that
they get from Nicaragua. Sandinista official Humberto Ortega has stated that “of course we are not ashamed to be helping
El Salvador. We would like to help all revolutions.” In response to President Reagan’s claim that the Sandinistas wish to
subvert Central America and eventually Mexico, Tomas Borge stated that “that is one historical prophecy of Ronald Reagan’s that is
absolutely true.” The Soviet-Cuban influence is obvious. In addition to the massive amounts of Soviet aid to Nicaragua, 10,000 Cuban
advisors were in Nicaragua in 1984.

The immediate threat to the United States is economic. Vital trade routes pass through the Caribbean which are endangered by
an increasing Soviet presence. The existence of an independent Panama will become increasingly critical when that country takes ownership of
the Panama Canal. Interference with this trade could place the United States in severe economic and strategic danger.

The Contra forces are a viable means for checking Sandinista aggression, and eventually freeing the Nicaraguan people. They are composed
of several participants in the Sandinista revolution. The crisis shows no signs of resolution through American disengagement. The United States
has attempted to work with the Sandinistas. The United States once offered $100 million in aid to the Sandinista government.
They have turned their backs upon past American overtures. Without aid to Nicaraguans fighting their oppression, American troops will become
necessary. Such a consequence is unnecessary and unacceptable. The United States must have the foresight to prevent it. Aid to
the Contras is the only available option.

US appears weak in Afghan freedom struggle

Senator Gordon J. Humphrey—

In its seven years of bloody warfare in Afghanistan, the Soviet army has inflicted over one million casualties, mostly among
non-combatants — women, children and the elderly — and produced five million Afghan refugees. Apply the numbers to our country:
Proportionately, they translate into 16 million Americans killed and wounded, and 80 million more living as refugees in Canada and
Mexico. What this means is that many would be missing from your family and circle of friends.

Tragically, the Soviets have largely succeeded in hiding their grisly crimes from the world. As catalogued by a number of
human rights groups, these include burning civilians alive, bayonetting pregnant women, flinging the elderly from helicopters, and bombing and shelling
villages indiscriminately, among other atrocities. The scale is so vast that a United Nations report warns that the war will
“lead inevitably to a situation approaching genocide.”

In spite of these atrocities, for most nations, ours included, it’s “business as usual” with the Soviets and their puppets
in Kabul. Incredibly, Afghan puppet diplomats are still recognized as the legitimate representatives of the Afghan people at the United
Nations. The Afghan seat at the U.N. is held bytraitors who maintain that Soviet forces were “invited” into Afghanistan to
help maintain order. The New York Times has rightly called for the expulsion of these imposters but its call has
gone unheeded by the U.S. and other governments. While we encourage and assist the Afghan resistance in its struggle to
liberate Afghanistan, we confer legitimacy on a regime which is cooperating with the Soviets in the genocide of the Afghan
people. By sending these mixed signals, the United States appears weak in its support of the Afghan freedom struggle. Unfortunately,
the American people, generally uninformed as to the extent of the carnage in Afghanistan, ask few hard questions of our
government. Americans deserve better than a half-hearted policy in Afghanistan. You can play a role by letting your representatives in
Washington know how you feel about the U.S. maintaining diplomatic relations with a government that has overseen the murder of
a million of its own citizens.

Brown student protests use of SATs
——————Michael Spalter——————

Greetings from Brown University. We are a group of concerned students who would like to share with your undergraduates a
referendum which we are sponsoring at Brown. Our purpose in having the Brown student body vote on the resolution “The
College Admission office should no longer require prospective Brown students to submit SAT scores” is to determine whether this was
a pressing issue within the Brown community. We believe from the initial response of our undergraduates this is indeed a
timely issue. Your school (as you know) is considered a “selective” college. The SAT according to many is an important
factor only at selective colleges. We disagree that it is an important factor anywhere. Many questions can be raised about
the SAT. We believe the time has come when high school seniors across this country should stop having to pay
to take a test which indicates the socio-economic position of the student's parents rather than the student’s ability to work.
Why do minorities do worse on the test than their educational disadvantages can account for? How substantive can the test
be if some coaching companies regularly improve scores more than 150 points? How genuine are the scores if so many
people are known to cheat on such poorly proctored exams? How can Educational Testing Services (ETS), which makes the SAT,
be trusted to monitor its own performance when this, their most profitable test, accounts for much of their revenue?

The Scholastic Aptitude Test is not objective; it is not a valid or reliable standard. Great as it might be
to have such a touchstone, this test is not it. As David Owen writes in his devastating book, None of
the Above, “There is nothing genuinely objective about a test like the SAT: it is written, compiled, keyed, and interpreted
by highly subjective human beings. The principal difference between it and a test that can’t be graded by a machine
is that it leaves no room for more than one correct answer.” ETS does not have a monopoly on knowledge,
though we are measured by its researchers’ judgments. Needless to say, many who think creatively or split hairs do not
do well on such a test, though they do well in school. The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching,
which helped the College Board create ETS, has brought to public attention in a report soon to be published that
most colleges need not require their students to take the SAT, because most colleges no longer admit selectively. If they
are going to let everyone in anyway, why should they require their applicants to spend time and money on a
test they don’t need? This means that Brown, and your school, as well as a few other colleges who do
have competitive admissions, are the only ones who benefit from the program at all. If we get little use out
of the SAT, why should we worry about jeopardizing its place in the testing market? When the influential Carnegie Foundation’s
report convinces many colleges who don’t need it to actually drop it, the cost of the test will climb, and
we will more urgently ask “Why not us too?”

As students at Brown, we are concerned about the SAT being used on our campus. Questions of bias, inaccuracy, and
practicality lead us to push for a reevaluation of the SAT on our campus. The time has arrived for we,
the undergraduates of “selective” colleges, to question the entire testing industry in the country. Perhaps, this is an issue which
members of your campus would like to raise and question.

Michael Spalter is a senior at Brown University and a founder of Students Against Testing.

College students can also assist the Afghan freedom fight in other ways. Students can organize letter-writing campaigns, fund-raising drives, class
donations of food and clothing, and demonstrating in support of the resistance. Student groups can show various films depicting the
fight in Afghanistan, to raise the awareness of their peers. Students can also become active by sponsoring Afghan patients for
medical treatment in the United States. Wounded freedom fighters and refugees arrive in the United States every month, and need
sponsors to arrange hospital care and other assistance. My office and the congressional task force of Afghanistan will be happy
to assist you in this effort. You can also lawfully confront Soviet visitors to your campus. Don’t let them get
away with their propaganda. If you want a list of tough questions to ask, contact my office. These are tangible
ways you can help the Afghan people — a people who need your help desperately. Their struggle for freedom is
our struggle, and their sacrifice an example of how even the smallest of nations can resist dominance and oppression by
a communist power. They can’t do it alone, though. Let’s do all we can to help the Afghans regain their
country and live in peace again.
