tics shouldn’t continue to improve.

WATSON, from page 7

David Ethridge hopes to use grant money to study the effects of drought in India, Sudan, and Indonesia. Inspired by
his summer experiences in India, where he had a chance to see the awful conditions that a five-year drought has
created in the small villages, David decided to try for a Watson so that he could study the drought’s effects
on subsistence farmers in three very different areas of the world. His project would be an extension of his Davidson
studies toward his degree in economics, and he hopes to learn more about his field by talking to government officials
as well as villagers.

Clara Broniec first became interested in the work of the Austrian artist Hundertwasser when she spent her junior year in
Germany. Hundertwasser is not only an artist, but an ecologist and architect; one of his ecology projects piqued her interest,
and she now wants to study his work in Vienna and to interview him in his home of New Zealand.
Her field of interest is modern art, and she has long-range plans to use her experience to introduce his artwork
to the U.S.

Reed Herrero is a Spanish major who wants to study historical models of the conquista in Spain, Paraguay, and Guatemala.
He became interested in his project when he spent a month in Spain through the Davidson College Dean Rusk Program
in International Studies and studied at the Archive of the Indies, the largest archive of Spanish history. His project will
focus on three models: the Priest, exemplified by Las Casas in Guatemala; the Conqueror, de Vaca, in Paraguay; and the
Missionary, Cortez, in Spain. He hopes to examine the influences of each type of person on the Indian culture of
the regions.

Helen Bowman is a French major whose project involves the study of ethnic dance forms in three different cultures. While
she has danced since the age of three, it was during her year abroad in Montpellier, France that she first
became interested in undertaking such a project, for it was then that she was exposed to performances of Yugoslavian and
other ethnic dances. Her proposal involves a trip to Africa, to Spain, and finally, to the Soviet Union to study
native and folk dances. She plans to use her knowledge in working with a dance company or with cultural exchange
groups.

Of this year’s candidates, Dean Terry says, “I thought the competition was better than usual. They’re strong candidates, with a
good chance of winning.” Last year, one of Davidson’s nominees, Laeta Kalogridis, won a Watson Fellowship to carry out her
project on “Lesbian Theatre as a means of Communication” in England and Germany.

BALL, from page 1

The backcourt looks set with Dan Keener, 6’3”, and Derek Rucker, 6’0”, both seniors at point and shooting guard, respectively.
Keener’s location at point guard should allow Rucker to retain more energy for the second half and should permit him
to concentrate on his outside shooting. Rucker had a great all-around season last year averaging 20.3 points per game (ppg.),
3.4 assists per game (apg.), and 2 steals per game (spg.). He also made 52.7% of his attempted field goals,
49.7% of his 3-point field goals, and 85.4% of his free throws, and there’s no reason why those statistics shouldn’t
continue to improve.

Keener averaged 4.6 ppg. last year as a part-time player but could very likely turn out to be a double-digit
scorer as well as the team’s leader in assists in his position as starting point guard. The frontcourt is established
except (possibly) for the small forward position. Jeff Himes, although only 6’4”, is built like a truck and is a
true “power” forward.Forward. He averaged 18.1 ppg., 6.9 rbg., 61.4 FG% as a junior and could easily score 20 ppg.
as a senior. Jay Schmitt, a 6’8” sophomore, will be the starting center and should turn out to be a
double-digit scorer after averaging only 4 ppg. last year. Maurice Gray, a 6’5" G-F sophomore swingman, appears to have the
small forward position but could be replaced by Edward (Magic) Gaines, another 6’4” G-F sophomore swingman. Michael Gynn, a 6’8”
senior, should provide scoring and rebounding help at the forward and center positions.

Now that you've gotten into Davidson, IBM can help you get more out of it. The road to graduation is
paved with term papers, lab reports, cramming, all-nighters, and, of course, exams. To ease that journey and awaken your professors
to your exceptional abilities, we suggest the newest member of the IBM Personal System/2 family: the Model 25 Collegiate. It’s
a high-powered personal computer with advanced graphics capabilities, designed to fit on your desk without adding to the clutter. And
it comes with a generous 640 KB memory, two 3.5" diskette drives, and an aid package every student can appreciate—a
big discount, plus Microsoft Windows 1.04, Write, Paint, Cardfile, IBM DOS 3.3, and a mouse. Pop in the load-and-go diskette
and your Model 25 Collegiate is set to help you write and revise long papers and illustrate your points by
combining words and graphics. So your professors will draw favorable conclusions about your work.

For more information on the Model 25 Collegiate, visit the IBM Education Product Coordinator on campus. You'll quickly learn how
to get the most out of the IBM Personal System/2. Microsoft is a registered trademark of the Microsoft Corporation. IBM
is a registered trademark and Personal System/2 is a trademark of the International Business Machines Corporation. © IBM 1987.

Friday, December 4, 1987
The Davidsonian

Important! Read Me!!

News Shorts

Election Sign-ups
Students who wish to run for the following positions can sign up in the Dean of Students’ office until 5
p.m. on December 8:
- Union president
- Union social vice-president
- Union co-curricular vice president
- YSSC president
- YSSC vice-president
- Freshman advisor(s)
- Defense advisor(s)
- Student solicitor(s)
- Davidsonian editor(s)

There will be a mandatory candidate’s meeting on December 8th at 5 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the Union.
Elections will be held December 15th, and students with questions can call Robert Kennedy at 6273. The Davidsonian will be
printing campaign statements for any candidates who wish to submit them. All such statements must be less than 500 words
in length and must be delivered to the Davidsonian offices (on the top floor of the Union) by 12:00 noon
on Wednesday, December 9th. (It would be appreciated if candidates were to submit their statements on IBM disks, when possible.)

Update from your duly elected representatives
By ROBERT SMALLEY

The SGA senate met Tuesday night for the first time this term. It passed a resolution in favor of retaining
the self-scheduled examination system. There have been some problems with the system recently, as noted in a November edition of
“The Dean’s Outbasket,” but the Senate feels very strongly that the self-scheduled system is best for a vast majority of
students. The Senate will be working with the Honor Council to try to isolate specific problems and correct them.

The Senate also expressed its desire to inform all interested students that election signups for several positions such as Union
president, YSSC president, Davidsonian editor, Freshman advisor, Student solicitor, and Student defender are being held until December 8th in the
Dean of Students’ office.

Finally, the Senate formed an ad hoc Athletics Committee assigned with investigating all aspects of athletic life at Davidson. The
committee will be making suggestions at future meetings.
