Opinions ~ The Davidsonian Friday, September 25, 1987

Davidson’s Kappa Alphas are not bigots

I wish to address this letter specifically to the authors of the “Booze Brothers” article which appeared in the Davidsonian
last week (September 21, “Booze Brothers raised from Dead”). In your article, you referred to two members (whom you mistakenly
identified as hall counselors) of my fraternity, Kappa Alpha, as belonging to the “K.K.K.A.” — an obvious reference to the
Ku Klux Klan. Knowing what I do about the beliefs and practices of the K.K.K., I consider this remark a
personal affront, and I am incredulous that you would even suggest an association between the Ku Klux Klan and the
K.A.’s at Davidson.

Your accusations are unfounded, and I am at a loss to explain your motivation. Perhaps you thought yourselves humorous. Apparently,
others did as well. Otherwise, I find it difficult to understand why this newspaper’s editor permitted a remark equating Sigma
chapter here at Davidson with the K.K.K. to be published in the Davidsonian. I am aware of the provisions of
the First Amendment, which guarantees the right of freedom of the press. I am also aware that responsible journalists are
more careful to avoid such loose remarks as they must sign their articles. While I do not believe that your
remarks were malicious in their intent, I find no evidence in your article to suggest any concern on your part
as to the veracity of your statement. Your reference to the K.A.’s at Davidson as “K.K.K.A.’s” is an example of
reckless journalism at its worst. In this context, I can understand your decision to omit your names from your article’s
byline.

While I do speak for the K.A.’s here at Davidson, I am unfortunately unable in this letter to speak for
my fraternity brothers in other chapters nationally (nor would I be so presumptuous as to do so). No doubt there
are members of Kappa Alpha chapters nationally who would probably not object to being referred to as “racist.” I am
equally certain, unfortunately, that the same could be said about certain members of the national organizations of every fraternity represented
on Patterson Court. Ignorant racist attitudes are still too prevalent in this country for this not to be true (yes,
Booze Brothers, even the fraternity to which one of you belongs is included). I refuse to accept responsibility for the
ignorance of this minority, however. I deeply resent the type of “guilt by association” that I encounter as a member
of a predominantly southern fraternity. I am disturbed by the negative image presented by too many of our fellow chapters
that continue to wear Confederate uniforms at the K.A. spring weekend, Old South. This practice was discontinued by Sigma chapter
in 1984, following understandable protest from Davidson’s black student coalition.

Davidson K.A.’s are not bigots, Booze Brothers. Gross generalizations like yours only serve to perpetuate racist sentiment. Your article has
done a disservice to our community and to the Davidsonian.

Donald Collins is a senior pre-med major from Orlando, Florida.

We've got to save some money for those new padlocks

Last summer, I rented an apartment. When I came in, there were the usual things: a stove, a refrigerator, a
bed, a desk. I looked around, decided that the rent was reasonable, and moved in. Of course, I had no
intention of living with only those things. I brought my own clothes, books, and furniture. I brought pots and pans
from home, and I went out and bought food every week. None of those things were provided by my landlord.
I paid for them myself, out of my own hard-earned cash.

Come September, it was time to move out and go back to school. A young woman came in to look
at my apartment. She found it to her liking, so I started to move out. Naturally, I took my clothes,
books, furniture, pots and pans, and food with me. I tried to call the new tenant to see if she
wanted to buy some of the stuff, since she could probably use it, but she was never available. I also
called my landlord’s secretary because I could not remember if I bought the couch or if it came with the
apartment. She gave me a list of standard equipment for every apartment, and the couch was not on it, so
I took it. The stuff that I could not use I sold to my friends. The money went mostly to
the lady who cooked for me all summer and to the Christian Children’s Fund. Some of it paid for me
to go to the beach for a weekend. Call me stingy, but I didn’t feel too bad about spending that
bit on myself. After all, it was my money.

A few weeks later my old landlord called me. “How dare you?” he raved. “I rented that apartment to the
new woman with the understanding that she would get your furniture, pots and pans, clothes, books, and food. You had
no right to take it away. It’s going to cost me $10,000 to replace it all. Boy, from now on
I’m going to padlock all my apartments as soon as I rent them out so that the old tenants won’t
steal the things in them.” He slammed the phone down.

Stunned, I sat down to write this. Now, as you’ve probably all realized, none of this really happened this summer.
Instead, I spent the summer as a camp counselor, blissfully unaware that my old house...was about to be accused of
selling Kappa Sigma’s kitchen. On the contrary, Emanon sold Emanon’s kitchen, to Emanon. We paid for the things we sold,
or past emanites did. Davidson College paid for none of them. As for the $10,000 you’re now going to have
to spend, A: There is no way it is going to cost that much to pay for what we sold,
unless you plan to buy gold-plated pans, and B: Why does the college have to pay for it anyway? No
one bought the plates for Emanon except Emanon. Why should we buy them for Kappa Sig? Let Kappa Sig buy
their own plates, as we did. After all, we have to save money for those new padlocks.

Callie Hammond is a junior English major from Asheboro, NC

Chaplain Charlie Summers bids farewell to Davidson

This is a strange feeling for me: welcoming people back to Davidson and saying “goodbye” at the same time. As
most of you know, I will become the pastor of the Seigle Ave. Presbyterian Church in Charlotte on Oct. 1st.
I am excited about this new ministry, and sad to be leaving so many friends in the work here.

I was counting on my fingers the other day. I have been involved with Davidson in one way or another
for 10 of the last 19 years. As a freshman stumbling into my room in Cannon in September of 1968,
I had no idea what this place would mean to me. There are a lot of memories from those first
four years: mixers, blind dates, protest marches, the worst hangover of my life, long hours in the chemistry lab. In
and around Davidson I discovered my vocation, met my wife, made some friends, dreamed about the future. Then a decade
later, I returned to practice my vocation, raise my children, make more friends, and generally be surprised by the grace
of God. I can say that the last 6 years have pushed and pulled me toward growing up even more
than the first four years as a student.

The truth is that most of us spend most of our lives growing up, becoming an adult, discovering and rediscovering
who we are and why we are here. “Adulthood” does not come with the diploma at graduation. The diploma is
more a hunting license in the quest for maturity.

So even though this is time for most folk to say “hello” again, I want to say “thank you” on
my way out the door. Thank you for the ways you have allowed me to minister among you, to you,
and receive ministry from you. Thank you for the ways I have witnessed care, patience, cooperation between all sorts of
people here; from the laundry to the library, from the gym to the green, the dome of Chambers to the
basement of Patterson Court. I realize that Davidson is not perfect. (If it were, I would not have lasted long
here.) We have our problems like everyone else. There are prejudices and passions, cliques and crimes, fights and friction, boredom
and bothersome people. But that is not the heart of this place. These are the exceptions to the norm of
a community where people respect each other, learn together, and grow in mutuality. Davidson is a place where everyone has
the opportunity to grow up, even the adults. I have seen days when the students have been my teachers, the
professors my students, and the staff my extended family. For all of life is a classroom; a classroom about the
purposes of God among us, God with us, God for us.

Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian’s “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. The editors will try
to print all opinions dealing with subjects of general interest to the campus community, but they must adhere to the
following guidelines:

- The opinions must be neatly typed. The editors will also accept articles submitted on 5.25” diskettes in SSI WordPerfect
or IBM PC-DOS text file format.
- Opinions must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Monday before the expected publication date, except for opinions submitted
on diskettes, which are due at 5 p.m. on Tuesday.
- All opinions should be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their
names to be printed with their articles.
- The staff will not edit opinions for content or style, but for common English usage only. The editors will
inform the authors of any substantial changes.
- Because of limited space, it is sometimes impossible to print all opinions submitted. The editors reserve the right to
select articles for publication from among those received.
- Writers should include information about their home city and state, their graduating class, or their profession (where applicable).

As one writer put it, “Listen to your life: See it for the fathomless mystery that it is. In the
boredom and pain of it no less than in the excitement and gladness: touch, taste, smell your way to the
holy and hidden heart of it because in the last analysis all moments are key moments, and life is grace.”
This is a community of mutual respect where life itself is grace, (to those who have eyes to see). Everyone
here is a teacher, a student, a neighbor, and a member of the family of God’s people. I thank you
for the place you have given me in this family over the years. Shalom: the peace of God be with
you.

Charlie Summers is the College Chaplain.
