Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Pena joins Spanish department

By AMY GOODE

Dr. L. H. Pena brings a touch of Mexican pizazz to the Davidson campus this year. A “freshman” faculty member, Dr. Pena hails from Monterrey, Mexico. There he attended the University of Monterrey for four years and also the National University of Mexico for one year. Dr. Pena earned his PhD in contemporary Latin American novels at Arizona State University in Tempe, Arizona. While he was at ASU he was a research assistant in the Center of Latin American Studies. His other credentials include Chairman of the Spanish Department at the University of Monterrey and two-year stints at Agnes Scott College and the University of Minnesota-Minneapolis.

Dr. Pena teaches Spanish 20 and 100 and will lead a seminar on Mexico in the Spring. He will also be taking a group of students over spring break to Guadalajara.

When asked what he enjoys most about his new home, Dr. Pena was quick to answer, “the students.” He claims we have taught him about our culture and society through intelligent dialogues. When not drilling the essentials of the Spanish novel, Dr. Pena enjoys walking and the occasional class of tae kwan do.

VAX, continued from page 1

arts colleges. Rigby pointed out that with the VAX it is “easier for the professors to share data, and it is more powerful and faster than the PRIME.” The VAX will also support many more users than the PRIME. Savarese joked that “many more [users] can be doing a project at the same time without bringing the computer to its knees.” Savarese also said that the VAX offers students an important practical advantage for their post-college days, noting that “one is more likely to find a VAX system than a PRIME system in the real world.”

Our 75th Year

Savarese is clearly pleased with the new computer and is enthusiastic about the potential it offers. “For a college our size,” he said, “the DEC VAX is a great system to have. We don’t need an enormous mainframe computer like a large university would. The enormous availability that the VAX offers is exciting.”

Come See Our Exciting Campus Wear... Casual or Dressy

A great selection of cotton and shetland sweaters, chamois shirts, and Canterbury rugby shirts for our cooler weather

Come See! charge accounts invited

John Mack & Son Quality and Fashion Apparel for Men and Women 128 N. Main St. Downtown Mooresville - Only 6 miles North phone: 664 - 4711

Queen Betsy Rothschild is chosen as Davidson’s Homecoming

Friday, October 16, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Robert Nesbit Greene speaks

By MARGARET CARROLL

On Wednesday the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies hosted Tom Greene from the State Department Office Concerning Refugees, who spoke to an interested group of Davidson students about Afghanistan’s present situation and its future prospects. After his talk on Afghanistan, students raised questions regarding the Soviet Union’s role in educating Afghan youth, India’s position in the Afghan situation,‘and Pakistan’s internal problems as a result of hosting Afghan refugees. Essential to understanding Afghanistan’s present situation, Mr. Greene explained, is a knowledge of the tribalism that exists in Afghanistan. With the aid of a map, Mr. Greene showed the diverse and numerous groups that share tribal loyalties and are bonded through their own languages, religion, and cultures. Afghans display their loyalties to their tribe first and to their country second. Mr. Greene has been in foreign service for many years in Iran, India, Pakistan, and Afghanistan and explained that the Afghan conflict is also linked with the balance of powers in the Middle East and Afghanistan’s history as a buffer state. From 1929-1978, the Mohammedzai family ruled Afghanistan, which was stable during that time and which also remained neutral in World War II and acted as a buffer state in the Cold War. In April of 1979, the leaders of the Afghan national Communist Party led a coup and established themselves as rulers. In December 1979, the Soviets entered, claiming to “preserve the gains of the revolution.” Upon Soviet entrance, many Afghan refugees fled to Iran and Pakistan. Today the Soviets have between 100,000 and 200,000 troops in Afghanistan, and there are about 5 million refugees, many stationed in camps along Afghan borders hoping, in the UN’s words, “someday to be able to return to their homeland in freedom and dignity.” However, Afghans are continuing to bomb Pakistan, trying to irritate the Pakistani government and thus force them to be less willing to house refugees.

Mr. Greene feels that Afghanistan’s future must be viewed with “cautious optimism.” The United States supports Pakistan multilaterally and searches for a diplomatic solution to the Afghan conflict. Some important developments have occurred recently that hint at lessened political tension within Afghanistan. For example, a coalition of the seven political parties has been formed and recognized by the Communist Party (the PDPA). Also, the government declared a cease-fire earlier this year, established a new constitution, and has given government positions to opposition parties. The next few months, with the upcoming summit and UN meeting, will be important in determining Afghanistan’s future. However, the pressing question is: what will the Soviets be willing to settle for in Afghanistan? Gorbachev claims that he will accept Afghan neutrality if the Afghan people make the choice, but the Soviets have also talked about setting up an interim government in Afghanistan. If the UN continues to receive support for its call for neutralization and withdrawal of arms, however, hopefully tension will force the Afghans to stop the war and the refugees will be able to return.