12 By ANTHONY MCCARRON

Who will be the most valuable player in the National League this year? How about the American League? Many names
come immediately to mind when analyzing these questions. In the NL, Jack Clark, Andre Dawson, Eric Davis, Tim Wallach, and
others leap to the forefront. In the junior circuit, George Bell, Dwight Evans, Mark McGwire, and Alan Trammell all stand
out.

However, before one can choose an MVP, one must examine all the credentials a player needs to be considered for
the award. Which is the number one consideration for most valuable player — great individual statistics or leading a team
into contention or to a championship? Before discussing individual players, let’s take a look at what the voting should be
based on.

The first question has already been asked — should the MVP be a great player on a great team, or
one who has an exceptional individual year but is on a mediocre or poor team? Naturally, home run titles, batting
titles, and RBI crowns carry weight with the voters, but a player who contributes heavily to a contending team merits
much attention, too. For the purposes of this article, winning and team success are major points in determining the most
valuable player. After all, winning is the name of the game, and a player who helps his team be successful,
not necessarily taking the whole enchilada, gets more kudos than the statistical giant in this writer’s mind.

Another issue raised by the MVP vote is whether or not pitchers should be eligible. Obviously, the Baseball Writers Association
of America feels that they should, as they elected Boston’s Roger Clemens American League MVP in 1986. Granted, he had
an awesome year, but does he deserve consideration when he plays only every fifth day? A relief pitcher is perhaps
more of an everyday contributor, but a great one like Clemens can glue an entire pitching staff together. This debate
will continue, perhaps interminably, but in 1987 speculators need not agonize on this angle of the issue; there are no
pitchers in either league worthy of claiming the award.

Now, let’s examine the candidates.

The National League

The three top candidates here are Jack Clark of St. Louis, Eric Davis of Cincinnati, and Andre Dawson of the
Cubs. At this time, they have to be considered the favorites. Others who will make an impact on the voting
are Tim Wallach of Montreal, Will Clark of the Giants, Tony Gwynn of San Diego, and Tim Raines of Montreal.

Jack Clark

A great player on a winning team, no question. Without this tremendous threat in the middle of their lineup, the
Cardinals might encounter some serious problems, even with all their speed. Clark is a destructive force. He is constantly pitched
around and is rarely challenged, but his numbers are excellent. At this writing, Clark is fourth in home runs with
35, third in RBIs with 106, eighth in runs with 93, second in slugging PCT, and first in on-base PCT,
walks, and game-winning hits. He is the heart of the St. Louis lineup and his very presence is a distraction
to any opposing pitcher.

Eric Davis

The next Willie Mays? It is far too early to tell, but Davis is one helluva ballplayer. At the start
of the season, he looked like a shoo-in for the award. He was player-of-the-month for both April and May and
was off to a tremendous start. His 36 home runs place him third in the league, he’s first in runs
and slugging, as well as placing high on the list for walks, on-base PCT, stolen bases, and RBIs. The Reds
have been shut out only 4 times the entire year and “e” was not in the lineup for 3 of
those. The Reds average 2 fewer runs per game without Davis in the batting order. The vital cog in the
big red machine, Davis blends speed and power into an overwhelming talent.

Andre Dawson

Dawson is the statistical giant of the NL this year. He has slammed 43 homers and driven in 117 runs,
both tops in the league. He’s also fourth in slugging and second in game-winning hits. “Andre — Awesome” has been
a tough out all year, and he is a dangerous man to have at the plate in any situation. The
one snare in his quest for MVP is the Cubs. They are only mediocre, and despite his fantastic season, this
hurts Dawson’s chances for MVP.

The Longshots

Tim Wallach

He has quietly put together a super season. Montreal is makingWaves in the NL East, and this helps his slim
chances. He’s eighth in batting, second in RBIs, and the leader in doubles.

Will Clark
This rising star has helped San Francisco into contention in the West with his potent bat and glove.

Tony Gwynn
Gwynn is a top player who leads in average, hits, and runs.

Tim Raines
Raines is a superstar who has had much to do with Montreal’s success. Despite no spring training, he has come
on to have a sensational year.

The American League
Over in the AL, the four names that stand out from a pack of fine ballplayers are Alan Trammell of
Detroit, Dwight Evans of Boston, George Bell of Toronto, and Wade Boggs of Boston.

Who's the most valuable player?

Alan Trammell
“Tram” has been Detroit’s leader throughout a season in which many thought the Tigers would not be a factor. He’s
played hurt, been a clutch hitter, and his stats are among the league leaders. At one point, Trammell went 10
weeks without being called out on strikes. Things happen when the ball is put in play, and Trammell has done
that to the tune of a .328 average, fourth in the league. A class act on a solid team.

Dwight Evans
Evans has put it all together this year with outstanding statistics. He is in the top 8 of 8 major
statistical categories, including third in homers (33), and second in RBIs (112). This season marks the seventh consecutive year that
Evans has reached the 20 homer plateau, and at .320, he has not sacrificed anything for power production.

George Bell
Bell is one of the top baseball talents in either league, and he is putting on quite a show this
year. His 45 home runs and 122 runs batted in are number one in both circuits. Toronto is in a
dogfight for the AL East, and Bell has been their main man. He is in the top 15 of 7
major categories and he plays with an admirable intensity and fire.

Wade Boggs
“Baseball’s next .400 hitter” never seems to get the recognition that he deserves, but perhaps this is the year. In
addition to pacing the league with a .367 average, he also leads in runs, on-base percentage, hits, doubles, and walks.
He also has added the dimension of power to his game by blasting 23 homers and knocking in over 80
runs. Alas, he and teammate Dwight Evans are hurt by Boston’s lack of ability to win.

The Longshots

Mark McGwire
A great impact player, despite the fact that he has slowed down since the All-Star break. He’s helped the Athletics,
but he will have to “settle” for the rookie home run record and Rookie of the Year.

Don Mattingly
Any discussion of MVP is Mattingly territory, but this year he is simply not as devastating as usual.

Kent Hrbek and Kirby Puckett
This pair has helped a good Minnesota team all year, but in the long run, they do not have the
numbers.

The MVPs
In the NL, MVP is an extremely difficult choice. Jack Clark, Davis, and Dawson are all candidates who would cakewalk
to the award in a normal year. Dawson is incredible, Davis is electrifying, but if the season ended today the
NL MVP would have to be Jack Clark. He is virtually unstoppable, even when he is pitched around, and his
136 walks show that no one wants to pitch to him. His very presence in the lineup gives the Cardinals
a great boost.

Dwight Evans is having a spectacular year, doing it all for the Red Sox, and Wade Boggs seems to be
an impossible out. Yet the Bosox’s losing record hurts both of their chances. Trammell is a great player on a
quality team and he is indeed having a superb year. However, George Bell of Toronto is the choice in the
AL. He, like Jack Clark, is a presence, a force to be reckoned with, whether he is hot or cold.
He is tearing the league apart and leading the Blue Jays into the thick of the pennant fight. Winning is
the bottom line in baseball, and both Clark and Bell are great players on great teams. Their contributions have been
invaluable to their clubs in the race for the pennant. Therefore, at this writing, Clark and Bell should be elected
MVPs in their respective leagues.
