Friday, November 6, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN 11

These Are the Days, Boys, You Should Savor!

OF course, it's over, Doeron! I have an idea of what your
pes. Take it easy, boy. Relax.

A Line With Greek Letters Chasing - A Matter of
Grape Carrot My Receiver Me Within A Veg-o-Matic. It's Too Anti-Life,
pts Melancholy Insights Are Some- You Don't Know What It Is at Death and Anti-Michael
Wilmacos here. Kelsey, I set you to the what garage. Like being the only category or Frank, you are
on campus, boy are you lucky! The Anti-Career.

Boy, I feel:

Facing Charges of Being Anti-Career,
Bob is sent before a jury of his peers. Meanwhile... in the Gondor Pines, given the book to the bunker, "YES I WANT THE JOB."
Below campus, the Board of Trustees burst open and Ted Turner weeps.
- The Reel of Carlton Pritchard -

Levene: "Please, Mr. Turner, have pity on us! Don't break as we race our sons away."

Your loss! I don't want your jobs. I don't want a son with power!

To Be Continued...

Can We Help?

WITH CAL AND SNAKE:

Study skills
- relationships
- time management
- cross-cultural counseling
- stress management
- weight control
- sexuality
- career counseling
- family issues
- alcohol & drug abuse

Student Counseling Center
Union Basement Ext. 451
Amelia Dockery, Ph.D. Campbell Peery, M.A.
Tom Hott, Ph.D. David Staton, Ph.D.

FIGHT
EAT
YOUR
VEGETABLES.

There’s strong evidence your greengrocer has access to cancer protection you won't find in any doctor’s office.

Like broccoli, peaches, spinach, tomatoes, citrus fruits, and various other types of fruits and vegetables. They may help reduce the risk of some forms of cancer.

Write for more information.

WITH GUEST HOST/HOSTESS
Vulliee on Sun" a vesde Bis. mente

What a cute and wacky adventure befell Snake & us.

by Lab Lil

Since a cure and wacky adventure befell Snake & us.

We take precedent at KM College! The Hinter—

The signal is of rage. Well, here's to you! Then more laundry fees, yes!

Must alone halt the nasties' domination? You kids— in next time!

Used a ball-point pen for all. Strip his five shrouds, keep up all next re-

Live, least kind of friend. Is that it? One which gets off your a— and produces a postcard, K—

Because the artist, M.D.S. can, his drawing every g must show white too.