THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Atkinson, Brooke Knight, Editors
John Gathings, Editor Emeritus
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Jim Dillon, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors

Friday, February 6, 1987

THE DAVIDSONIAN ©

Mark Chen, Features Editor
Lee Eichelberger, Inside Art Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Susan Wilkins, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Self-Selection

Next Friday, ironically the 13th, one of the most haunting experiences some people ever face at Davidson will take place: Self-Selection. For most, this is a day of fun and celebration as the year-long pressure of court parties, invitations, and recruiting leads to a happy choice. For some, however, Self-Selection fails to open a spot in the house of choice. For the freshman and the veteran alike, here are our thoughts on the uniquely Davidson event.

First of all, we feel having Self-Selection on a Friday is a good idea. Universally recognized as the party-night to end all party-nights, a Friday Self-Selection celebration will give a full weekend of recovery. We feel the faculty is glad to see this extravaganza moved out of its traditional mid-week slot.

Second, we understand male hall counselors have been instructed to encourage their freshmen to sign up for the house of their choice whether or not they received an oral encouragement (read “bid”). Any freshman determined to select a house under such conditions has our good wishes, but should also be forewarned of the difficulties ahead: fraternity members do not look kindly on shotgunners lacking oral encouragements. The adverse reaction faced by such a would-be pledge ranges from discomfort whenever entering the house to open hostility from the fraternity of choice. Gaining acceptance from house members under such conditions is, at best, difficult. Such an amelioration has occurred in past history, but the list of casualties is much longer than that of successes.

Freshmen in such a situation should consider the benefits of independence. A growing number of students have chosen to be independents and decided they like it. The tremendous pressure placed on freshmen to join court houses makes independence look bad; but for many, it is the right choice.

Another alternative is to choose independence or coed dining for a year and participate in a sophomore rush to join a fraternity. Sophomore pledges are also becoming more numerous.

We hope every freshman finds the right social standing for next year; we just wanted everyone to know their options.

Farewell

With the publication of this issue, our term as editors comes to an end. We would like to thank all the members of the staff for their efforts; you all made our lives easier with your help. We hope you, the reader, have enjoyed our issues and continue to support The Davidsonian with comments and opinions. We wish the new editors, Mark Chen and Keith Finch, the best of luck in their upcoming year in office.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, David Bearce,Betsy Bryan, Maria Douglas, Wendy Dunn, Laura Gabel, Penelope Hughes, Lucia Kendall, Aaron Levine, Sarah Longely, Ed Matthews, Tom Moore, Ray Thornton, David Van Pelt, David Williams, Ted Wilson. Features Staff: Lee Eichelberger, Jessica Fisher, Scott Goodwin, Chris Hargrove, Steve Mank, Diana Miller. Sports Staff: Rick Case, Boyd Coggins, Perry Makewes, Susan Wilkins. Photography Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda Reed, Penelope Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, Matt Yaun. Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill. Production Staff: Beth Bryson, Kim Craig, Amelia Bok, Gates Grainger, Robert Grzeszczak, Pete Mangone, Jamie McAden, Tom Moore, Ibby Sowell, Kethegn Strickland, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yarbrough. Circulation Staff: Lucia Kendall.

To the Editors:
Dear Diane Zengel:
Perhaps you should try Club Med instead of Davidson; it’s a lot cheaper.
Tripp Norris

To the Editors:
The Alcohol Advisory Committee has determined that in the future students who use false “IDs” in obtaining alcohol at Davidson social functions may forfeit their privilege to attend social functions on campus.
Dean Will Terry

W.A.A.R.
To the Editors:
As a concerned female student at Davidson College, I am growing increasingly worried about a rising new organization: W.A.A.R., or Women Against Ant Rape. This organization has mysteriously crawled out of the woodwork like the pests it so vehemently despises. My concern with the development of W.A.A.R. is its ignorance of women’s feelings and the issue of rape. Rape traumatizes its victims. Paranoia, nightmares, and general fear that the crime’s perpetrator lurks around the next corner are all characteristics of the rape victim. Ants CANNOT violate a person's body and in no way elicit such fears. W.A.A.R., wake up and smell the coffee; ants are not a problem.
Wanda Alice Richman, ’89

To the Editors:
I’ve been told by some people not to write this letter. I’ve been told by others that if I didn’t they would, so, after returning from my wiener roast/advertising seminar, I decided to address this matter which has gotten completely blown out of proportion. I will make this brief and to the point. Maybe.

Point 1. Our “subtle” protests to the rape crisis meeting attended by Rusk and Pika were not used for the reason mentioned in Kim William’s article. Granted, it did stay in my mind, why else would I even mention it? No, it did not “stimulate thoughtfulness and concern over the issue of acquaintance rape” any more than any of the other meetings I’ve attended concerning date rape. I feel awareness of the problem is the best first step to take on the issue, and that has been done to the dullest degree. I used the rape crisis meeting in our advertising because the meeting that began with very good intentions ended up with Rusk and Pika staring at each other saying the same things that we’ve heard for two years: “It's the guy’s fault!” “No way, it’s the girl’s fault!” If it hadn’t been for Eileen Keeley the meeting would have dragged on in the same direction for another 20 minutes. The point is, I used the rape crisis meeting in the poster because it was funny, not to criticize it. I would gladly participate in it again, as long as the same nonsense isn’t thrown back and forth.

Point 2. Who said anything about having trouble forming intimate relationships with members of the opposite sex? Who says we want an intimate relationship with...

Continued to page 15