Baseball moves on to Tournament, p.10
Volume LXXVII, Number 5
The Davidsonian: Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, April 24, 1987

Coach Greer plans to leave for job at Wake Forest
By KEN BOGERT & MATT NEWSOM

This past week George Greer, Davidson’s head baseball coach, announced that he would be resigning in June. He has accepted an offer from Wake Forest to become the head coach of the Demon Deacons in the ACC. In his six years as the head coach of the baseball team, Greer has brought the club from a perpetual cellar dweller to a powerful contender. He has started a tradition of winning that Kit Morris hopes to maintain in the years to come.

Greer’s success at Davidson is only one rung on a long ladder of accomplishments. As a player, George Greer excelled. He won all-state honors at three positions in Rhode Island. Playing for the University of Connecticut, Greer was named All-American twice. He was an all-star at two positions in the highly regarded Cape Cod League and captained the U.S. Pan-American team in 1967. In the minors, Greer reached the triple-A level before becoming a coach.

His accomplishments on the field were not George Greer’s only glory. Since his introduction to baseball coaching, he has furthered his reputation for winning. As head coach of Davidson, the University of Connecticut, Avery Point, and the Cotuit Kettleers of the Cape Cod League, he has more than four hundred fifty victories under his belt. His lifetime winning percentage is impressive — about .600.

Kit Morris had nothing but good things to say about Coach Greer and his accomplishments here at Davidson. “Before Greer entered the program, the school had only one winning season in thirty years. Greer took a hopeless situation and turned it around completely.” Greer accomplished this in only three years. His 1982 team won two of fourteen conference games. In 1985 the team led the league with an eleven and five mark.

Morris noticed several qualities that helped Greer turn the program around. Among his talents was an ability to “sell the team.” Greer did this particularly well in the areas of recruiting, alumni support, and administration support. Greer recruited many talented players without the incentive of scholarships. Some of his players could have received scholarships to many schools, but — Continued to page 3

Soon-to-be former Davidson baseball coach George Greer

Students and faculty debate change to semesters
By SUSAN PEARSALL

An issue which is currently the source of a great deal of controversy and speculation is the proposed change from a trimester to a semester system, which would probably go into effect in 1988. What many students don’t realize is that semesters are only a very small part of a package proposal which is the product of an ongoing process of evaluation of the curriculum and calendar that is being undertaken by the Educational Policy Committee, chaired by Vice President Robert C. Williams. The proposal is, as stated in the preface, an attempt to “provide a structure of excellence in the curriculum and calendar that increases the time available for the kind of learning that is retained.” The committee claims, “We believe that the present curriculum and calendar, having served the college reasonably well for two decades, must now be significantly changed if we are to have the kind of learning environment we profess in our many statements of purpose.”

The question of semesters was discussed heatedly and at length in a panel discussion in the 900 Room Wed., April 22. The members of the panel were Registrar Sue Ross and Professors of Art and Music Herb Jackson and Frank Albinder. According to Ross, because the Long-Range Planning Committee decided to recommend a curriculum reevaluation, a change in the entire college environment is in the works, and semesters are just one aspect of the proposed change. The E.P.C. endorses a fifteen-week semester system and a core curriculum to complement it “to provide greater coherence toThe curriculum for every student, greater independence for juniors and seniors, greater time for writing, research, and thinking between classes and over the course of a term...” Albinder and Ross, too, agree that semesters are the best option for Davidson; Jackson, however, disagrees. He is of the opinion that the Art Dept. does not have the facilities necessary to accommodate the larger amounts of students who will enroll in art classes each semester as a result of the limited choice of terms in which students can take them to fulfill graduation requirements. He supports, therefore, a modified trimester system in which classes no longer meet every day, but meet for longer class periods in order to cover the same amount of material. His proposal sounds very appetizing to many students who like ten-week classes, but it does not provide for the large blocks of free time during the day that the E.P.C. desires. These spaces of free time are appealing because they would be an incentive for juniors and seniors to undertake independent studies, for students to participate in college-sponsored extracurricular activities, and for everyone to have pressure-free breathing space in which to write better, more in-depth papers.

Albinder emphasizes that the fast pace of a ten-week term (“In my 101 class, we do Bach in three days”) leads to student burnout and faculty exhaustion, especially in Spring Term, when so many of his students take music Pass/Fail. “The semester system would give us 25% more course, but 50% more time and fewer subscribed hours,” he explains. Ross agrees: “The existing system is like going to summer school all the time. With semesters, you’d have more control over your week — when you study, when you write your papers.”

The students who attended the discussion had many concerns about the proposal. They were rather disgruntled when they heard that the student body will have almost no voice in the final decision, since it will be voted on by the faculty. Among their comments, the issue of decreased flexibility was prevalent. Under the present system, they claimed, it is much easier to choose a major because one can take more classes a year, can catch up on major requirements relatively easily even if one does not take any classes in one’s major until late in the sophomore year, and can experiment with classes one may not like since they only last ten weeks. Many voiced concern that a change to eight classes a year would mean a more limited education (although Albinder mentioned that Princeton graduates only take 28 classes). The most disturbed, however, were prospective pre-med majors, who worried that they would not be able to take the necessary prerequisites and would have difficulty getting spaces in classes that they have to have.

At any rate, the proposal would mean sweeping changes for everyone. The numbering system for courses would probably be changed now that juniors and seniors would have greater incentive to take upper-level courses (which would be designated as “advanced,” or “specialized” courses). Students who spend time abroad would find it much easier to return because, after a semester overseas, they would not have missed two terms, or six classes, at Davidson. Students would take one class in each of seven, not four, areas: Literature, Art (including music, theater, and speech), History, Religion/Philosophy (two courses, at least one in religion), Mathematics, Science (two courses, one with lab), and Social Science. We would take four courses a semester with the options of over- and underloading.

The faculty plan to discuss (at great length, of course) the entire newly-revised and updated proposal on Monday. Following more revisions, the faculty will vote on these changes and probably suggest more amendments. If the plan then is passed, it will be adopted in 1988. While students are encouraged to get copies of the proposal from their advisers and to express their views to the S.G.A., their only input will be through Conrad Doenges, S.G.A. president, who will summarize these views to the faculty before the vote.