—_——————WNews Shorts

Tax law for scholarships and fellowships changes

Recipients of scholarship and fellowship grants may want to take a look at some recent changes to income tax law which may affect them, according to the Internal Revenue Service. “The Tax Reform Act of 1986 changes the rules which determine who may exclude scholarship and fellowship grants from their income,” said John E. Burke, IRS District Director for North Carolina. “The new tax law also redefines what kind of income can be excluded. These changes are effective for tax years beginning after 1986 and apply to grants received after August 16, 1986.”

In the past, students who were not candidates for a degree could exclude from their income up to $300 of scholarship or fellowship income per month. Burke said this is no longer allowed. All such income received by non-degree candidates must be included on their tax returns.

“We define a scholarship as any amount received by an individual as a scholarship or fellowship grant to the extent the grant is used for tuition and related expenses. Tuition includes amounts paid for the enrollment or attendance of a student at an educational organization. Related expenses are fees, books, supplies, and equipment,” he said. “Any other amounts received by the student would be includible in the recipient’s income for that year. This would include any payment received for room, board, or incidental expenses.”

Some scholarship grants include amounts which represent compensation for past, present, or future services to be provided. In the past, some of this could have been excluded from income. The new law states that all payments for services are included in income even if the performance of the service is a condition of all students receiving the grant and all candidates for that degree.

Recipients of scholarship or fellowship grants may wish to obtain a copy of the free IRS Publication 520, “Scholarships and Fellowships,” or Publication 5653, “Highlights of the 1986 Tax Changes,” by calling 1-800-424-3676.

Eating disorder support group started this term

A campus support group for women with eating disorders such as anorexia and bulimia has been organized this term by Georgia Ringle. Ringle, who holds a master's degree in public health, emphasized that the group is non-threatening and confidential. Meetings will be held Mondays at 7:15 p.m. in 301 Chambers. Although the group is currently for women only, Ringle hopes to be able to include men next fall as well. For further information, contact Georgia Ringle at 892-8748.

Material contributed by Aaron Levine

Casey dies, Secord testifies in Senate investigations

Student loans available for summer school

Educational loans for North Carolina students attending schools in or out of state are available for summer school attendance as well as for the academic year. These loans are available through College Foundation Inc. in Raleigh for both undergraduate and graduate/professional students. For more information, contact College Foundation, Inc., 1307 Glenwood Ave., Raleigh, NC 27605. (919) 821-4771.

Minority Weekend takes place at Davidson College

On Saturday, May 2, the Admissions Office hosted a program for minority high school sophomores and juniors who might be prospective Davidson College students, their parents, and high school guidance counselors from North and South Carolina. The program was entitled “Davidson: College and Career Perspectives at a Highly Selective Liberal Arts College.” The main events of the day were the talks given by various professors on the use of a liberal arts education, a talk given by President Kuykendall on “Davidson College: a Place for Academic Diversity,” as well as talks on financing one’s education given by Acting Dean of Financial Aid Kathleen Stevenson; applying for college, given by Assistant Dean of Admissions Gary Mason; and opportunities at Davidson, given by Assistant Dean of Students Paula Miller. Some of the currently enrolled students gave presentations on Davidson College life from the student perspective.

Professor Charles Ratliff of the Economics department spoke on opportunities for economics majors; Professor Bill Mahoney of the Religion department spoke, not only on opportunities for religion majors which include divinity school, but also on how philosophy and religion can answer the big questions in life. ProfessorDavid Grant of the Biology Department spoke on the place of science in the liberal arts curriculum and pointed out that while Davidson’s own scientific facilities are limited, there are opportunities to do work with other better-endowed facilities. Elizabeth Mills of the English department spoke on the value of the Humanities, especially English. She pointed out what the English language gives students; how literature can offer opportunities for experience. She emphasized that language is a tool for life. The major events for the day were held in the 900 Room and the Morrison Room in the Union. The event was co-sponsored by the Black Student Coalition. Material contributed by Aaron Levine.

Friday, May 8, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN
By KATHERINE PRICE

Headlining news for May 1-7:

Across the Nation — Former CIA Director William Casey died on Wed. of pneumonia and complications stemming from his brain tumor. The death of the 74-year-old Casey leaves questions unanswered about the U.S./Iran arms-for-hostages deal and diversion of funds to the contras. Former Maj. Gen. Richard Secord testified this week before congressional investigative committees, asserting that he believed that top White House officials were aware of the diversion of funds from Iranian weapons sales to the Nicaraguan contras. Secord stated that while he had never spoken with Pres. Reagan personally, he thought that Reagan had been aware of his activities through conversations with former national security adviser John Poindexter and former Marine Lt. Col. Oliver North. Hawaiian Democratic Sen. Daniel Inouye stated that Pres. Reagan knew much more about the arms-for-hostages deal with Iran than he will admit. Inouye is leader of the Senate Investigating Committee on the scandal.

Public relations executive Richard Miller pleaded guilty to charges of conspiring to defraud the government on Wed. Miller’s admission follows Carl “Spitz” Channell’s admission of guilt last week. Both Miller and Channell have implicated former Marine Lt. Col. Oliver North. Dr. David Linder, an Oregon pathologist and father of the American civilian killed by Nicaraguan contra forces last week, said an autopsy of his son’s body revealed that the contras “blew his son’s brains out at point-blank range.” The contras had cited Linder’s death as accidental.

Democratic presidential aspirant Gary Hart became the focus of a possible scandal, as The Miami Herald published reports that he spent the night with Donna Rice, a S.C. native. Polls taken after the report indicate that Hart has already lost support in his bid for the presidency. Hart completely denies that anything immoral happened between him and Rice. Former PTL leaders Jim Bakker and Richard Dortch were dismissed from the Assemblies of God on Wed. Their dismissal was a response to “unbecoming conduct” — Bakker’s sexual encounter with Jessica Hahn and Dortch’s attempt to cover the affair up.

Around the World — On Sun., Jordan announced its willingness to participate in an international Middle East peace conference. The Israeli leadership has been split on this issue, with Foreign Minister Peres in favor of the peace talks, and Prime Minister Shamir opposed. Israeli planes attacked Palestinians near Sidon, Lebanon, killing 10 people and injuring 28. In Nicaragua, the United Nicaraguan Opposition, an umbrella organization for the contra rebel forces, announced that it would elect new directors, in an effort to make the UNO more representative of the Nicaraguan people. Philippine Pres. Corazon Aquino allowed the sale of 113 businesses which had been nationalized by the previous Marcos regime. South African black activist Winnie Mandela attracted a gathering of 6000 students on Mon. in Johannesburg. The group was subsequently dispersed by 100 South African policemen. South African Pres. P.W. Botha achieved overwhelming victory in Wed.’s election. Blacks protested the election, in which only whites could vote. The World Jewish Congress opened its meeting in Budapest, Hungary with praise of the U.S. decision to bar Kurt Waldheim from entering the U.S. Waldheim is believed to have participated in the persecution of Jews during World War II. Great Britain holds municipal elections Thurs. The outcome of the elections may affect Prime Minister Thatcher’s decision on whether or not to hold early general elections on June 11.