2 Wednesday, January 28, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Mills discusses marriage and literature
By DAVID BEARCE

Professor Elizabeth Mills, a visiting English lecturer, spoke on Jan. 19 at 5 p.m. in the 900 Room. Her talk
was entitled “Marriage in Literature and Marriage in Life,” and it was sponsored by the Women’s Concerns Committee. Professor Mills
based her talk on “The Yellow Wall-Paper,” a short story written by Charlotte Perkins Gilman. Gilman was a writer during
the late 19th century and early 20th century. “The Yellow Wall-Paper” was later made into a film.

Careers
Continued from page 1

within the next two weeks also. An externship is a week-long observation period spent in the field of the student's
choice during spring break.

“In the last ten years, this office has been successful in placing at least 95 percent of these people in
the setting of their choice,” Wood said. “It is not something students have to set up on their own. We
will set it up for them if they just come in and fill out a form.”

Eight companies will visit Davidson this year seeking summer employees. They are A-Bar-A Guest Ranch, Camp Carolina, Camp Seagull, Elk
Canyon Guest Ranch, Heritage USA, Linville Resorts, Massanetta Springs Conference Center, and United Methodist Camps of North Carolina.

Wood is seeking an Action Grant from the Federal Action Agency, the sponsors of the Peace Corps and Vista. If
Wood's proposal is accepted, Davidson will receive a $15,000 grant for work in human services-related fields. Wood is also working
with economics professor Clark Ross and chaplain Charlie Summers to sponsor a conference on the American economy and moral issues
as they relate to it in the spring.

“It seems to me that Davidson has been negligent in bringing enough focus to bear on our economic system and
the way we use money in our country and in the world,” Wood said. “I feel we're cranking out people
with the sole intention of making money, but I’m not sure we’re equipping them to deal with the ethical problems
of our economy. This institution is Presbyterian and has an ambition to serve people rather than exploit people. I fear
that sometimes we're putting out people to be exploiters in the name of the almighty dollar.”

The Careers Office recently received a $15,000 grant from the Duke Endowment, “a good chunk” of which has been used
to purchase new furniture for the offices and new interviewing rooms, according to Wood. He said Samuel Hemphill, a Davidson
alumnus with Century Furniture in Hickory, helped with the

Professor Mills first addressed the question of why only stories of bad marriages appear in literature. She responded, “Life and
literature are not the same. Marriage in literature is different from marriage in life: very different.

“Literature is a work of imagination,” and not intended to be “a sociological document,” according to Mills. Because a writer
must keep the attention of his or her audience, it is necessary to concentrate on the most interesting aspects of
a marriage. A good marriage makes a bad subject just as “good people make boring subjects. A character in a
book who is consistently well-behaved is probably bad for the book,” she said.

Mills read selections from Gilman’s diary concerning her marriage. At first, Gilman was euphoric about her marriage. But later she
recounts many bad feelings and experiences in her diary. Finally, Gilman was sent to a physician to be treated for
depression and possible suicide. Her physician recommended that she live a completely domestic life with her child, avoiding intellectual stimulation.
Gilman followed this advice until she began to experience intense mental pain. Gilman separated from her husband in 1890 and
then wrote “The Yellow Wall-Paper.” The story was an attempt to convince her former physician to change his practices of
treating women.

Mills then showed the film version of “The Yellow Wall-Paper.” It portrayed a woman kept alone in a room under
the advice of her physician. The woman is disturbed by the wallpaper in the room. The woman eventually loses sanity
and is reduced to crawling around the room tearing down the wallpaper. Mills stressed that this story is not an
autobiography because Gilman led an active life unlike the woman in her story.

“Stories offer perceptions of reality,” stated Mills. They allow a reader to “transcend their own eyes, past, and condition.” Mills
concluded by commenting that while “reading is a spectator sport, marriage requires participation.”

Beyond Davidson:
Hu forced to resign, attempted coup in Philippines
By DAVID WILLIAMS

Headlining events for Jan. 16-27: Around the World — Chinese Communist Party leader Hu Yaobang was forced to resign his
position after being accused of major “mistakes” during his tenure.Prime Minister Zhou Ziyang will replace Hu. The Chinese government also
dismissed the President and Vice-President of the Academy of Sciences in Beijing. In Sunday's national elections in West Germany, the
center-right coalition of the Christian Democrats and the Free Democratic Party won a parliamentary majority that will permit it to
govern the country for four more years. Chancellor Helmut Kohl's Christian Democrats had their worst electoral showing since 1949, receiving
only 44.3 percent of the popular vote.

West German government officials said they would extradite Mohammed Ali Hamadei, the suspect accused of hijacking a TWA jet in
June 1985, only if the U.S. promised not to seek the death penalty for him. The Reagan administration agreed to
the request. However, after reports that gunmen had kidnapped four West Germans in Beirut, Bonn officials said there would be
no rush to extradite Hamadei. Meanwhile, four kidnappers disguised as police abducted three U.S. teachers and an Indian professor in
Beirut.

The coalition between the Fine Gael and Labor parties in Ireland collapsed on Tuesday. Irish Prime Minister Garret Fitzgerald announced
that a national election would be held Feb. 17. Dissident soldiers in the Philippines attempted a coup Monday and managed
to take over a private television and radio station but were foiled in their efforts to seize control of the
government. In an unrelated matter, government troops fired into a crowd of demonstrators Thursday when they pushed through the front
line of a police barrier near the presidential palace in Manila. Hospitals reported 12 dead and 94 wounded. Communist and
government negotiators in the Philippines suspended peace talks indefinitely, saying they had received threats on their lives.

Rebellious soldiers in Ecuador seized President Leon Febres Cordero and held him hostage while demanding the release of General Frank
Pazzos, who was being held in a military prison in Quito. Both Pazzos and Cordero were freed, and Pazzos denied
charges that he had directed the hostage-taking. Pakistani officials said Foreign Minister Sahabzada Yaqub Khan will go to Moscow soon
to discuss ways to reach a negotiated settlement of the eight-year-old war between the Soviets and the Afghan rebels.

Former National Security Advisor Robert McFarlane said the United States relied primarily on Israel's analysis of the Iranian political situation
when deciding to ship arms to Iran and used virtually no independent intelligence sources. Spokesmen for the Reagan administration and
for the Nicaraguan rebels said a major internal conflict between two key factions is splitting the rebel movement. Supply operation
crewmen said the head of U.S. officials in El Salvador guided secret airdrops of arms to Nicaragua's contra rebels.

Across the Nation — In Cumming, Georgia, more than 15,000 black and white demonstrators marched Saturday to protest racism in
all-white Forsyth County. The march drew a large number of supporters as a result of an incident last week when
400 Ku Klux Klan members pelted 75 marchers with rocks and bottles in Forsyth County. Admiral William Crowe, Jr., chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the Reagan administration needs more information before it considers early deployment of a
version of the “star wars” system. Pennsylvania State Treasurer R. Budd Dwyer, who was convicted for bribery last month, shot
himself to death before reporters and cameramen at a news conference in Harrisburg.

Reaffirming the traditional practice of seniority, Senate Republicans voted 24-17 to elect Senator Jesse Helms as the ranking Republican on
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Democratic Senators reversed their vote of two weeks ago and elected to retain Representative Les
Aspin as chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. Ignoring warnings of a likely presidential veto, the Senate voted 93-6
to reauthorize the $20 billion Clean Water Act the President vetoed last year.

Before a crowd of 5,000 anti-abortion demonstrators, President Reagan pledged his continued support to end the “national tragedy” of abortion
and to work to overturn the 1973 Roe vs. Wade decision that legalized abortion. The Supreme Court ruled that states
are not required to give pregnant women unemployment compensation when they lose their jobs for a maternity leave. Meanwhile, Attorney
General Edwin Meese endorsed a 128-page proposal to overturn the Court’s Miranda decision, which requires arresting officers to tell criminal
suspects of their rights.

In Economic Headlines — Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa made an emergency trip to Washington to express concern with Treasury
Secretary James Baker over the administration’s perceived unwillingness to slow the rapid fall of the dollar. In the meeting, Baker
apparently refused to promise to help the Japanese cope with the declining dollar. The Dow Jones Industrial Average of thirty
major stocks continued to rise last week, reaching a record 2145.67 points Thursday. However, stock prices plummeted Friday in the
busiest day in stock market history, and the Dow Jones average fell 44.15 to 2,101.52.
