2 U.S. fires at Iranian ship; Joe Biden quits race

By KATHERINE PRICE

Headlining events for Sept. 17-24:

Around the world — The U.S. fired shots on an Iranian ship on Monday near the coast of Bahrain, adding to conflict in the troubled Middle East. U.S. officials stated that the Iranian ship appeared to be laying mines. On Tuesday, the American naval ship USS Jarrett fired additional shots at another Iranian ship, in warning. U.S. President Reagan says he has no intention of creating conflict, and that the actions were justified under international law. Iranian President Ali Khamenei addressed the United Nations on Tuesday, following the attacks.

Nicaragua announced a unilateral ceasefire on Tuesday, just hours after a meeting in Washington between U.S. President Reagan and Costa Rican President Arias. Arias was seeking to win Reagan’s support of a Central American peace plan. The peace plan calls for simultaneous ceasefires in Central American guerrilla warfare, cessation of foreign military aid, and progress toward democratic reforms by November 7. The Reagan administration believes that the unilateral ceasefire represents an attempt by Nicaraguan President Ortega to discourage the U.S. Congress from appropriating additional Contra aid. Reagan has said that he will seek $270 million in Contra aid after September.

In the Philippines, President Corazon Aquino responded to last week’s coup attempt by reshuffling the duties of 21 officers within her administration. The Philippines saw continued violence this week as a popular leftist leader, Lean Alejandro of the New Patriotic Alliance, was assassinated. His death sparked large public demonstrations.

Across the nation — Presidential candidate Sen. Joseph Biden of Delaware became the second Democrat, following Gary Hart, to end his campaign. Biden withdrew from the race on Wednesday amid accusations of plagiarism in his law school days and in his campaign speeches. Biden admitted that he had made mistakes, and was “angry at himself.” Biden’s aides think his withdrawal will be most beneficial to Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis, also a Democratic presidential candidate.

The Senate Judiciary Committee continues to debate the nomination of Robert Bork for Supreme Court Justice. Bork finished his personal testimony in a record five days of hearings. Three key members of the Judiciary Committee — Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Pennsylvania), Sen. Howell Heflin (D-Alabama), and Sen. Dennis DeConcini (D-Arizona) — remain uncommitted.

Jessica Hahn, who was involved in a sex scandal with ex-PTL leader Jim Bakker, testified for two days this week to a federal panel about the episode. Hahn also made headlines this week by appearing semi-nude in Playboy magazine. Reportedly, Hahn was paid over $1 million by the magazine for the pictures and for her account of the PTL affair.

Letters to the Editors

OUTRAGE is the only word I can think of in relation to the article published by the Davidsonian this last issue. According to THE BOOZE BROTHERS, the fraternity which I am the president of is a group of racist, white supremacists who affiliate themselves with the KKK. SLANDER is the next word that comes to mind when I think about this predicament. As a member of the now-defunct RACE committee, and as an assistant organizer for the original “Solidarity Day” event (which sought to positively counteract the effects of the KKK march on Davidson), I am astonished at the ignorance required to publish an article which so foolishly labels a group of individuals as racists. Funny, but I don’t seem to remember the editors of the Davidsonian at any of the RACE committee meetings I attended, nor do I recall them helping canvas the area to create a “ghost town” for those poor misinformed souls who believe they are superior to others because of the color of their skin. Yet, now I must defend my fraternity from a similar ignorance, one that arises from a failure to look at the true facts.

Yes, I freely admit that Kappa Alpha Order is a fraternity system which is predominantly southern in composition, and which considers its spiritual founder to be Robert E. Lee, the general in charge of the Confederate forces. However, I challenge the Davidsonian staff to free themselves of their ignorance and to investigate the material available on Robert E. Lee. I believe, then, they will better understand why a fraternity system seeks to emulate his character. Furthermore, I suggest to the editors of the Davidsonian to look at Sigma Chapter of...Davidson College, Kappa Alpha Order, on its own merits. Each member of our group of men joined our ranks because of the individuals present at our fraternity, here at Davidson College. National reputations mean little when one finds oneself in the company of men, which I daresay, are of excellent character. Finally, I would just like to question the integrity of a journalistic staff which feels compelled to make humor of such sensitive issues as racism and homosexuality. The first amendment of our constitution guarantees the right of freedom of speech. However, I do not believe our founding fathers had in mind freedom to slander and defame others when they drew up these amendments. A responsible press is an important part of our constitutional guarantees. Yet, abuse of our first amendment rights is as dangerous as suppression of them. Too much power in any single group’s hand is a frightening proposition. Hopefully, our Davidsonian editors will mature and understand the responsibility they have to report accurately and fairly. Otherwise, infractions, such as the injustice which occurred to my fraternity and others, will continue. In addition, please have the courage in the future to acknowledge the authors of articles of this nature. Hiding behind a veil of secrecy is common not only to THE BOOZE BROTHERS, but also the KKK. Cowards find it easy to be unfair when their identity is unknown.

Peter D. Wright
President, KA

To the Editors,

In many regards it was comforting to return to Davidson after a year abroad and find the place relatively unchanged. On the other hand, I have been rather appalled at how some things remain the same. For example, when one browses through the pages of the September 21 edition of the Davidsonian it becomes painfully obvious that the editorial staff continues to wallow in a pool of ignorance and virtueless selection of the satire columnists. For to allow an article to be printed such as the one written by the gutless Booze Brothers, one must assume that these editors are no more intelligent than the Booze Brothers themselves. God help us all! Such “mindless cuts” upon the campus environment can at times be entertaining, but when these attempts at humor border upon slander then something must be done. Any Davidsonian editor who allows any staff member to unjustly stereotype an organization as racist and prejudiced deserves no title of editor for any publication that I know of. It is inexcusable to permit such a gross defamation of character to take place in a publication that is read by so many people both in and outside of the college community. Not even a front-page apology by the editors and the authors would come close to abdicating this wrongdoing, but then again, that might be a good place to start.

Daniel Rikard

Letters

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. The editors will try to print all letters dealing with subjects of general interest to the campus community, but they must adhere to the following guidelines:
- All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Tuesday before the expected publication date.
- Letters must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written. The editors will also accept letters submitted on 5.25” diskettes in SSI WordPerfect or IBM PC-DOS (MS-DOS) text file format.
- All letters should be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their names to be printed with their letters.
- The editors reserve the right not to print letters which contain inside jokes, off-color slurs, or advertisements, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed dealing with the same topic.
- Writers should include an address and a phone number with their submissions.
- Writers should address their letters “To the Editors.”

Recess: 20 days
Courses end: 5 p.m. Tuesday, May 2
Reading day: Wednesday, May 3
Commencement: Sunday, May 14

Below is the proposed semester calendar for the 1988-89 school year. Students wishing to make comments on the calendar or changes should consult their advisors.

Fall Semester 1988-89
Orientation begins: Saturday, August 20
Orientation ends: Tuesday, August 23
Courses begin: 8 a.m. Wednesday, August 24
Holiday begins: 5 p.m. Friday, October 7
Holiday ends: 8 a.m. Wednesday, October 12
Thanksgiving holiday begins: 5 p.m. Tuesday, November 22
Thanksgiving holiday ends: 8 a.m. Monday, November 28
Courses end: 5 p.m. Tuesday, December 13
Reading day: Wednesday, December 14
Exams begin: 9 a.m. Thursday, December 15
Exams end: 5 p.m. Wednesday, December 21

Spring Semester 1988-89
Courses begin: 8 a.m. Wednesday, January 11
Holiday begins: 5 p.m. Friday, March 17
Holiday ends: 8 a.m. Monday, March 27
Exams begin: 9 a.m. Thursday, May 4
Exams end: 12 noon Wednesday, May 10