Opinions The Davidsonian January 16, 1987

Sayres Rudy philosophizes on fun and war

Sayres Rudy

About five billion two hundred million years ago, during the Archeozoic Era, the earth’s crust formed and unicellular organisms came into being. A few days later a huge creation named Adam suddenly existed. Lonely and without a phone, he ran into Eve, married a gorilla and that’s how we got where we are now. It is for this reason that any argument between “evolutionists” and “creationists” is silly. Both groups are right and ought to get along better at parties.

Later, about 440 million years ago, long after all the conodonts, ostracods, algae, primitive ammonites, and so on had popped up, earth entered the Mesozoic Era. Geologists, Talmudic scholars, and archaeologists have unearthed evidence indicating that the Mesozoic Era was a lot of fun. Although the descendants of Adam and Eve did not mix comfortably with the likes of the Tyrannosaurus Rex, the volcanic activity and development of dinosaurs and conifers provided hours of excitement. But suddenly, by the end of the Cretaceous Sub-era, the huge creatures were wiped out, and the planet earth had to start again with the advent of modern insects and flowering plants. The huge beings, some of which even had two brains, were simply obliterated. That was the end of fun for a while. It was also the end of all the fighting and struggle that had been going on.

The explanation for the temporary obliteration of Fun and War so long ago remains unknown. Theories, as usual, abound. Twentieth-century scientist Gary Larson suggested that the dinosaurs became extinct because they did drugs. Larson, of course, also showed us that during the much-later glacial epoch a man asked his neighbor, “Say, Thag, Wall of ice is closer today?” Clearly, according to Larson, the large beings saw what was happening, “they knew what they were getting into,” but they let disaster strike anyway. Later, when we discuss the twentieth century, we'll see how this same phenomenon occurred again, to brighter beings. Hm . . .

The other theory about the end of the Cretaceous period states that a huge meteor bashed into the side of planet earth, raising enough dust and dirt and dinosaur chips to block the sun and halt Photosynthesis. Perhaps that was when the dinosaurs and everybody else started doing drugs. Of course, if a meteor were responsible, the beings on earth would be absolved of Blame. After all, who would intentionally halt Photosynthesis?

Well, Humanity, Blame, and Photosynthesis proved to be resilient characters, and they survived. It would be a long time before Humanity understood Photosynthesis, but Humanity did understand Blame. Blame, of course, was created when Eve bit into an apple, which God had forbade because He knew apples made Eve gaseous. It was important, He felt, that Adam be attracted to Eve. Anyway, Humanity understood Blame, and used it effectively. Humans used Blame to organize their Thinking and their Societies. Through Blame Humans enabled themselves to decide which people and ideas were right and which were wrong. This decision-making process came to be called Morality. Morality was the tool with which Humanity set its collective mind at ease. Societies could rest assured, knowing who was good and superior and, of course, who was bad and inferior. Humanity, you see, devised Morality based on Blame because without agreement on good and bad, constant Thinking had to go on. And constant Thinking, Humans quickly learned, was insufferable.

This is also why sports and sex were created on earth. The latter items, called Fun, were more enjoyable than Morality; therefore, Humanity divided itself into those who had Fun and those who made Morality. Those who made Morality were called Leaders, and those who had Fun were called Public, or sometimes Masses. They did not call themselves Followers because that would not have been fun. Honesty was not always Fun.

Thus did Life go on, in apparent harmony and understanding, until Humanity saw a strange thing happen to Morality. It appeared to be shooting itself in the foot. It seemed to go too far. Morality became the reason to enslave, torture, and kill. But these acts did not seem Moral. Finally, Morality became the reason for Immorality. That caused confusion, rather than peace of mind. Even Religion did not seem to help Morality. A man named Jonathan Swift said that people had just enough Religion to Hate, but not enough to Love other people. A man named Khalil Gibran said, “Woe unto a nation, where religious groups are numerous, but Religion is absent.” Others, named Buddha, Lao Tzu, Jesus, and others tried but not enough Humans listened. So others named Nietzsche and Dostoyevski and Hesse and Camus and Vonnegut and others tried again. They asked whether Humanity should accept the decisions of Leaders about what Morality is. They suggested that individual little Humans rethink and question Morality, and that Compassion and Concern and Thinking by all people could make Humanity improved and Happier. It might even be Fun. But Thinking had made Humans unhappy in the first place. This presented a conflict. Oooh. What could resolve this conflict? Hmm...

The Twentieth Century, that’s what. Early in that century a Great War started, in which Humans were ordered to stand up and charge into machine-gun fire in the Name of Morality. And they did it. The Leaders had decided. Finally it stopped. The 1920’s were more Fun. The 1930's were not. People were poor and hungry. Then another war started, largely because people were poor and hungry. In this war, people could fight from farther away, often not seeing the enemy, because of Improvement in Military Technology. This was sustenance for Morality. Horrible acts could be justified, because pain unseen was okay. But Morality’s demise still seemed certain. A Leader named Hitler ordered his followers to murder every Jew, gay, gypsy, and others they could find, in the Name of Morality. And they did it. The Leader had decided. Finally that stopped. Then a Leader named Truman ordered his Followers to drop Atomic Bombs on Japanese civilians, in the Name of Morality. And they did it. The leader, you see, had decided. Finally it stopped. Birds were heard chirping again.

As you can see, the forces that had brought Humanity to that point — Blame and Morality and War and Thinking and Fun and Leaders and Followers and, of course, Photosynthesis, though it still went unnoticed — were battling for Humanity’s attention. Like buoys floating free on the wary ocean during a storm, rising and falling. But Morality had taken the most serious blows. There on its death bed, it revived itself by becoming Anti-Communism and, naturally, Anti-Capitalism. Too bad, too, because if Morality had learned the right lesson from the horror of the first half of the century Morality might have survived longer, and maybe even had a house in the suburbs. It had only toLearn to live without blame. But then of course, morality isn’t responsible for itself; humans are responsible. Hm... Nothing had stopped really. There was Korea and Vietnam, Eastern Europe, and Afghanistan. All in the name of morality. How many spirits, poets, lovers, babes killed in war. Not seen again. Never to laugh or have fun. Goodbye. So you see, by the twentieth century, things on Earth were strange. The latest records we have from that century—some newspapers and an essay or two—indicate that by 1986 there was little hope. While the 1950s had mostly been fun, the 1960s had not. Especially in the place called the United States of America, the only country of its size old enough and decent enough to be a democracy. Unfortunately, democracy equated itself with morality and blame. And so did everybody else. By the time it all ended, humanity was spending $1.7 million a minute on military goods, while in the same minute dozens of children died of hunger and sickness that could have been cured with inexpensive food and vaccinations. The United Nations couldn’t afford to enjoy ice water anymore. And one newspaper article said that, “A tiny Azores island which boasts only two cars, a dozen tractors, and one road has had its first traffic accident.” Simply put, the world was going to hell.

The problem in America, of course, was that the leaders and followers had become so separated and distinguishable that each operated in its own realm and tried to keep out of the other’s way. Followers stopped voting and leaders protected themselves by establishing morality as their declared goal and self-description, and by establishing peculiar requirements for entrance into its sacred fold. Each candidate for leadership had to be moral and had to be a former soldier, astronaut, football player, actor, or graduate from an exclusive and expensive series of schools. These requirements were not much fun, and some were damn dangerous, and most followers shied away. And something sad happened. The followers finally felt alienated from the leaders. Morality, you see, was dying, which agitated the thinking of followers. And the leaders had to cheat, lie, and steal to pretend politics could be moral. But the followers found out about some of the secrets being kept from them by their leaders, and the followers got angry. They got angry because Congress, a part of the leadership, gave them permission to get angry. Congress, you see, got angry too. It didn’t like what the President and his advisors were doing in Vietnam, a faraway place. What they were doing was this: they were secretly bombing Laos and Cambodia, also faraway places, and killing innocent people. This was not a secret to the humans in Laos and Cambodia. When the leadership divided and many American humans got angry, a funny thing happened. The followers became the leaders and the leaders became the followers. The President resigned. True story. Maybe morality was back. A leader named Ronald Reagan—one of the very last presidents before it all came to an end—believed morality was back. Boy did he believe. In anti-communism, good versus evil, us against them. Yep, the whole bit. And the people believed. Easy answers. Sigh of relief. No more thinking. And most important, lots more fun. The two realms could go back to avoiding each other again. Leaders would “reduce” government and followers would smile and go about their business. Objection was unacceptable because the leaders said so; Congress and the President were friends again. And together they, too, had fun. They illegally mined Nicaragua's borders, invaded a place called Grenada under a media blackout; created artificial arms talks in order to build MX missiles that the followers didn’t want, distributed assassination instructions to nasty people called Contras, attempted an illegal assassination plot against the nasty leader of a sovereign state, incidentally slaughtering dozens of citizens, and then disinformed (lied to) the press to prepare the next plot. Nasty. Yucky. Whether it was right or wrong, all that icky stuff was secret till it was too late. Guess what. Right. No one objected. The leaders had not said it was okay to object. Ho-hum. Business as usual.

But in late 1986 a new Congress said unto the followers, “Uh, it’s okay, you can come out now.” Right! Just like when Glenda the Good Witch told the Munchkins they could come out, in the Wizard of Oz, a twentieth-century movie. The Munchkins danced and sung and told the story about how the Witch of the East was killed. One Munchkin started with the famous twister and continued, “And oh, what happened then was rich.” And that’s what the followers said as they sung about the death of Reagan leadership, also killed by a House, and something called the Iran Scandal. Oooh. It was soon called Irangate, a distortion of semantics and facts that reflected a lurking desire in the minds of the press and followers to stand twenty paces from their leaders and point the accusing finger of, Yayo!, blame! But why did it give the followers such satisfaction and amusement to watch their leaders squirm under the pressure of inquisition? Why did they look on with the same cynicism that guided them to loathe highway patrols and everybody else out there to serve them? Was the Iran Scandal worse than what had gone on before? Was it more dishonest and sleazy? It was stupid, and it was dishonest and sleazy, and it could only work against America’s own political and economic interests. True enough. But was it morality worse than what had gone on for six years without a peep from the followers? Who could say? Morality was finally dead. Like the Wicked Witch, and the Reagan presidency, the second to last presidency in the history of what they all called the United States of America. And how did that happen? How did it all come to an end? Well, for those answers I turn to one of those essays I mentioned earlier, that we in the field have used to gather our history of Earth as it was two hundred million years ago. The essay which inspired me and served as the backbone of my presentation here today, was found in a metal box far down beneath the Isle of what was then known as Jordan, a country in the so-called Near East. Careful tests date the contents of the box to 1987, a date confirmed by some of the newspaper articles and writings. The material was damaged slightly, but it appears that the person who left us this information was named Sayers Rudy. I am indebted to him or her, and I don’t mean to make fun when I say that it’s interesting to know that as late as 1987 there were still people who thought writing essays would make a difference.

Continued on page 11