Friday, April 3, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

German politician gives view of U.S.-Soviet relations
By MARK CHEN

This past week, German Marshall Fund Visiting Fellow Freimut Duve visited the Davidson campus. While here, Duve lectured on “Coexistence:
the German Experience” and “German Intellectuals in Politics.” Besides these official gatherings, Duve has visited many classes, talking with and
answering questions from students. Besides being a scholar, Duve is also an active politician in his native West Germany. A
member of the Social Democratic party, Duve represents a district in Hamburg in the Bundestag, the German parliament. Furthermore, he
is the editor of the Social Democratic publishing press, turning out a number of pamphlets and books yearly. From journalism
to policymaking, Herr Duve’s activities embrace a number of areas. These areas have led Duve to a number of observations
about the state of U.S.-Soviet relations. In a talk to Dr. Edmondson’s class on Twentieth-Century Russia, he emphasized what he
saw as the differences between German and American views of the Soviet Union.

“You Americans must understand that we share many values. We don’t share a lot of values with the history of
Russia... We do share history, but we don’t share much history with the United States.” While Germany and the Soviet
Union are far apart on many issues, they share the common experience of war and suffering. Duve was born in
1936 and he remembers staying in bomb shelters while buildings outside were burning. The American experience, however, is of sending
fathers and sons off to fight in foreign wars. While Germans and Russians have had to cope with the immediacy
of war, Americans have debated between involvement in and isolation from world affairs.

This historical experience has meant a difference in American, German, and Russian views of war. For Europeans, war is a
living memory. For Americans, war is something for which they plan and prepare. Duve sharply criticized the present administration for
its talk of the Soviet Union as an “Evil Empire.” He insisted that the Soviet Union, with its memory of
war, does not want to change the status quo through war measures. Superpower rivalry is a misconception of history, one
for which the world may have to pay. “That is the basic lesson a German politician can give to American
students.”

Duve also looked at changes in the Soviet Union which he believes will affect this rivalry. Recently, Mikhail Gorbachev, the
General Secretary of the Soviet Union, gave a speech to his Central Committee. In this speech he repeated the need
for democratization and warned that 20% of its members, appointed during the years of Brezhnev, should resign their posts in
favor of younger men. Though not optimistic about change in the Soviet Union, Duve believes that strong pressures are leading
Gorbachev in the direction of reform. Duve laid the strongest emphasis on what he believed were the mistaken attitudes of
the United States toward the Soviet Union. “If the most powerful nation in the world has these views, then it
is detrimental to European-American friendship and other things.”

By Ted Wilson

Under the new leadership of sophomore Julie Mayfield, Davidson’s Amnesty International organization has a full agenda this spring and encourages
active participation by all interested students and faculty. AI, according to its literature, “is a worldwide movement which is independent
of any government, political faction, ideology, economic interest, or religious creed. It plays a specific role within the overall spectrum
of human rights work.”

The organization’s activities are centered around three objectives. First, AI “seeks the release of men and women detained anywhere for
their beliefs, color, sex, ethnic origin, language, or religion, provided they have neither used nor advocated violence. These are termed
‘Prisoners of Conscience.’” Second, “it advocates fair and early trials of all political prisoners and works on behalf of such
persons detained without charge or without trial.” Finally, AI’s third focal point is the opposition to “the death penalty and
torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment of all prisoners without reservations.”

It is important to dispel all misconceptions of AI’s purposes and activities. In a campus newsletter, AI wrote that “Amnesty
groups and members have often been accused of having a hidden political agenda. In this country, Amnesty is most likely
to be labeled ‘liberal’ or even ‘communist’... In other countries, the label might be just the opposite.” However, Amnesty International
insists on their independence “of any political ideology or group.”

At Davidson, students and faculty may become involved with AI’s activities by writing letters and attending lectures, films, and videos
on issues such as torture and the death penalty. The national organization sends schools...like Davidson, who have a Campus Network,
Urgent Actions, which outline AI’s concerns about specific prisoners of conscience. Then, interested students write letters and cards to foreign
government officials, seeking the release of these persons. On April 7, AI will conduct a letter writing concerning several students
in Iraq who are believed to have been killed because of their parents’ political beliefs. This spring the organization will
show a video on the Death Penalty followed by a discussion. AI is also planning a meeting which will focus
on female victims of torture. In addition to Mayfield, AI is led this year by Dr. Lakshmanan Sabaratnam, Visiting Professor
of Sociology. Dr. Sabaratnam worked for an Adoption Group in Seattle, Washington which entailed writing letters, meeting with senators, and
demonstrating before embassies to publicize critical issues. He said that he sees a lot of potential in the effectiveness of
AI internationally, “as more people are involved in activities,” and as more people become literate “and get involved in human
rights issues.” Sabaratnam said that it is difficult to evaluate AI’s effectiveness “because we don’t know if prisoners are actually
released because of AI or because of many different organizations working together.” However, he adds that “every prisoner that I
have worked with through the Adoption Group has been released.” Despite the difficulty in determining AI's effectiveness, he said that
the organization “creates a consciousness of human rights.” AI’s effectiveness is further demonstrated by the fact that it received the
1977 Nobel Peace Prize. As for his goals as the faculty advisor for Davidson’s AI, Sabaratnam said “in the short
run, it is to get more people active and to create more awareness of human rights issues.” “Also, in the
next few years,” he said, “we want to get more faculty involved.” He added that he would also like for
students and faculty members to give talks around Davidson in order to increase the community’s participation in the organization.

Davidson pool must meet safety regulations
By DAVID WILLIAMS

To comply with a local ordinance passed two years ago, the athletic department has recently decided to do away with
the “buddy system” at the swimming pool and has hired certified students to lifeguard the pool during periods of “open-swim.”
The athletic department has appropriated $1500 from its physical education budget to cover the cost of having lifeguards at the
pool during the remainder of spring term. Physical Education Director Sterling Martin said that until recently athletic department officials were
“not aware of” the 1985 ordinances passed by Mecklenburg County, which require that pools exceeding five feet in depth and
more than 800 square feet in surface area have a lifeguard on duty at all times the pool is open.
Martin said that about three years ago several athletic department members had expressed the concern that opening the pool without
lifeguards on duty was “taking too much of a chance.” He said the department members believed lifeguards were necessary for
the safe operation of the pool “not only because of the possibility of negligence,” but also because lifeguards would be
better equipped to save a life in case a swimmer were to suffer a life-threatening physical problem while in the
pool. But Martin said budget constraints had forced the athletic department to continue with the “buddy” system at the pool
during hours of “open swim.” Under the buddy system, swimmers were required to swim in groups of at least two.
The buddy system had been in operation at the pool for at least thirty years. Martin said the athletic department
a few years ago asked its insurance company about the college’s liability with regard to its swimming pool operations under
the buddy system. “Their opinion, at that point, was that we were nearly as liable with a lifeguard or without,”
Martin said. “So we decided at that point that, in order to keep the pool open the number of hours
that people wanted it available, we would operate on the buddy system.” However, Martin said that with lifeguards at the
pool the college will face a substantially smaller chance of being sued for negligence in case of a drowning or
other accident at the pool. “Unfortunately, in the current society, it’s very common to sue at the drop of a
hat,” he said. “We certainly wouldn’t expect that, but negligence is negligence.” Martin said he has been successful at finding
enough water safety instructors and advanced lifeguards certified by the Red Cross to man the pool for its nearly fifty
hours per week of open swim. “We have filled all the slots except two,” he said.
