“Laura?”

“Yes?”

“How could you get felt up at 12? You didn’t even have a bra then, did you? And didn't you worry about getting dirty? Places like that are never clean—all

One night we came home, after a night of dancing, and lit candles in my living room. I put a record on, and we listened to the music and talked in flickering whispers. I fell asleep, slowly, on the sofa, talking about Peter.

“Emma, wake up.”

I heard her from a long way away. I opened my eyes cautiously, but it was still night. The candles were still burning. I had just dozed off for a few minutes.

“Em, are you awake?”

“Um-m-mm.”

“I have to tell you something important. Emma, are you listening?”

I sat up, slowly, and stretched. I felt warm and close. “Sure, I'm listening.”

“I don’t ever bring any of the Irresistibles home because they don't interest me.”

“Surprise, surprise... they wouldn’t interest a starving prostitute, and we both know it. Did you wake me up to tell me that?”

Her eyes were fixed on the floor, which was unusual. She normally stared straight at me when she had something to say. “Men don't interest me.”

I sat very still, pretending I hadn't heard. “What was that?”

“I said men don’t interest me. I’m gay. A lesbian.”

“No, you're not.” I said it directly, without thought. “This is a joke, right?” She said nothing. “Be real, Laura. Your hair is longer than mine. You’re one of the most beautiful women I’ve ever met—” Did I imagine it, or did her eyes pick up when I said that? “—and there’s no reason to waste it. No reason at all. Don’t be ridiculous.”

“It's not a waste. I love women. They're just as worthwhile loving as men.”

“Then why do we always go to these awful pickup joints, if you aren’t interested in men?” I was afraid of the answer.

“I don’t usually go places like that. But I couldn't take you to any of the places where I dance—people know me, and I didn’t think you’d understand. I didn't think you’d understand that I fall in love with women.”

“No, you don’t.” My voice was rising. “This is just a stage or something, hon. Look, I can get you an appointment with a fantastic psychiatrist who my father used to go to—”

“I don't need a doctor.” Her eyes were up, bright and challenging. “I’m happy with what I am.”

“Happy as a sick person? As a pervert? Laura, be reasonable.”

“I love you.” Her hair gleamed darkly in the candlelight.

My stomach turned to ice. I wasn't sure what to do. Was I safe? Would she attack me? Something within me scoffed: she's slept over a hundred times and never touched you. Nothing has changed. She just had a bad experience or something.

“Emma?”

My mind turned with furious speed. What should I do?

“I love you.” She put her hand up to my face.

“No, you don't!” I screamed. “You don’t! You can't! Get away from me! Get out of my house!” I knew what perverts were like. I read the papers, I saw what happened in prisons and daycare centers. It was sick. It wasn't natural. It wasn’t love. It was all sex. Everybody knew that.

My best friend, Laura.

“Emma—" she was crying. I didn’t care. She had betrayed me.

“Do you stare at me when I’m undressing? Is that why you come over here? To look at me when I'm not noticing? Do you come into the bathroom when I’m taking a shower? Oh God...” I was crying and shouting. I felt the beginnings of hate forming in my frozen body.

“GET OUT!”

I don't know how long it was before I noticed that she was gone.

“Emma?”

I didn’t want to answer. I had picked the phone up out of habit. It’s funny, how hard old habits die. I didn't really want to answer the phone, because I knew that, no matter who it was, I didn’t want to talk. But as it rang, my muscles reacted with a thoughtless jump, and I answered before I knew what I was doing.

“Emma, are you there?” It was Peter.

My mind worked with a detachment that was frightening. I felt nothing at the sound of the voice. He rasped. I felt as if I heard the sounds of bones being playfully knocked together.

“Yes, I’m here.”

“Well, for God's sake, next time say something when you answer the phone. I thought I was talking to a thief.”

My head nodded almost imperceptibly in agreement. The things we think of when not thinking...

“Emma? Are you listening?”

“Yes.”

“Come to dinner with me tonight?”

“Come on. You could use the break.”

He didn't specify just what I needed the break from. I had the sudden feeling of looking over a cliff, at water dashing against the side of stone with violent silence.

“All right.”

He picked me up about two hours later. Maybe he sensed that something was wrong—that I wasn't “myself.” Actually, I was becoming more myself every few seconds, like a tree in autumn. The leaves were falling from me, fluttering slowly to the ground. I was stripping myself to the branches, black and barren, preparing for the winter that I knew was coming. There was no question of migration. I didn’t want to leave. I wanted to drop the flame yellow husks that clung to me, the colors of fire in the center of a candle. They dripped off me. I was left. I alone. Black and bare and hard from a hundred winters previous. Unrecognizable.