Wednesday, January 28, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

An international view of Davidson
Diane Zengel

When I came to Davidson I did not share the anti-American attitudes that a lot of Germans hold today; my
attitudes had yet to be formed. I was determined to adapt as well as possible and to tolerate even the
less pleasant aspects of this country in general and of Davidson in particular. I wanted my stay abroad to be
not only an academic experience, but also a cultural and a personal one. The first letters I had received from
the College suggested that I would be able to study in an “atmosphere of trust and responsibility” and to take
an active part in the “promotion of German-American relations.”

During the first months, I discovered both positive and negative aspects of my new environment, but I always managed to
integrate the positive as well as the negative experiences into the one global picture of a great enrichment of my
life. I criticized the often unreasonable amount of workload, but also appreciated the high academic standard of the College. I
enjoyed the friendliness of the Americans I met and experienced it as a pleasant contrast to German sulkiness. I wrote
enthusiastic letters home describing the beauty of the College and of the landscape surrounding it. My friends, in turn, sent
letters which expressed astonishment or even anger about my already being totally “Americanized.”

Talking to me now you will soon notice that this positive state must have undergone a major change. My present
attitudes towards Davidson, America, and Americans are—as I freely admit—not only extremely negative, but represent also a certainly distorted point
of view. What brought about this change? I want to give a description of some of the disappointments I experienced
which are, at least in part, an answer to this question. I am neither able nor do I intend to
be fair and objective; my intention is to give a subjective picture of my feelings and of what I think
to be their reason. It should be needless to point out that I still appreciate the friendship, help, and character
of the few truly interested individuals I found.

The “few truly interested individuals” are those who don’t suffer from what was to become the major shock for me:
indifference. It’s an indifference that hides itself behind the proverbial American friendliness. Not without reason, the question “How are you?”
is an empty phrase, practically without any meaning. The indifference shows up when action is required. I hardly met any
American who did not attentively listen to my problems and did not make some understanding remarks. When I complained about
feelings of imprisonment and about my wish to escape this prison by making some trips into the nearer environment, everybody
nodded and everybody understood. A lot of people even felt the same way—but their friendly smiles never brought me to
the Cherokee reservation in the Smokies or to Charlotte or to Winston Salem.

Meanwhile, I have been accused of “rotten attitudes” and of an unwillingness to bring about changes by making proposals and
by asking people directly to organize certain activities. My own efforts mainly consisted of talking to people (but mostly didn’t
change much), of inviting people (but they didn’t show up or were “just stopping by”), of taking part in on-campus
activities (which are, of course, nice but can hardly satisfy the need for a comprehensive cultural experience). I tried to
plan interesting trips for my holidays and gladly accepted help and support from the exceptions among the people I met.
By now, my efforts are almost limited to the self-persuasion that the pure academic enrichment is justification enough for this
year abroad. Such a justification is necessary considering the sacrifices you make when thankfully accepting the scholarship: You give up
your home for a long time, you risk friendships and, maybe, a serious liaison; you usually cannot transfer your grades,
thus losing one year for your studies at home.

It’s also enhanced by the system of the Honor Code which undermines the development of self-responsibility and of own standards
of value. Thus, it can happen that students simply close their ears when somebody is about to tell them an
Honor Code violation; or that the mere exchange of ideas is prevented by a blind fear to violate the rules
which are imposed from above. Here we may also find part of the reason for the uniformity and lack of
individuality which strongly contradicts...the American’s favorite idea of their country as a “melting pot” of many cultures. Just whatever this
melting pot contains — it melted pretty well! There are differences from individual to individual, from north to south, from
east to west. The overall appearance, however, of Americans, their way of life, and of the environment they create is
astonishingly uniform — not only at first sight. When I claim that America is a land without culture, then this
statement is not based on its number of old churches and castles which naturally must be overall. This statement is
based on a careful look at the indifference which characterizes the way Americans live in and with their environment. America’s
culture is smothered for the sake of a very doubtful “progress.” Culture gets lost in a country where a town
is nothing but a straight line of McDonald’s, motels, and gas stations; where even wine is served in plastic glasses;
where the roadside closely resembles trash deposits as soon as you leave the clean National Park; where people go to
several parties on one evening, unable to spend more than one or two hours together with close friends; where the
waiter brings the bill while you're just swallowing your last bite. Americans, however, tend to interpret this lack or destruction
of culture as a mixture of many. I’m tempted to diagnose that the minority-complex behind this strategy must be a
big one — at least, this is my personal explanation for an ultra-nationalism which is often based on such a
hypocritical veiling of the true facts. Accordingly, educational centers such as the Kennedy Space Center or Disney World (yes! This
is not only an amusement park, but also a center for education!) wipe out the dark spots of America’s past
and present and prophesize a glorious future. The exaggerated feeling of national pride is enhanced by all means; the flags
which are waving at every corner are certainly the most harmless ones. Then it’s particularly bitter to see the poverty
of so many people in the States or to take a look at the reservations of the American Indians. Davidson
as an elite college is also part of this country’s educational system: It should fight indifference but, in fact, promotes
it by creating an atmosphere of academic pressure and restriction. Unfortunately, education and open-mindedness don’t increase with the amount of
workload and rules. My own experiences as well as conversations with Davidson students suggest that the College climate often forces
people into a passiveness towards everything that isn’t connected with their studies. No wonder then, that a lot of students
regard themselves as victims of the system. Victims, usually, feel too powerless to change anything! Today someone told me to
make my time here a more valuable experience and to bring about change by offering something to Davidson, thus receiving
by giving. This was what I have to offer Davidson: my opinion.

A lot of international students will have a hard time being satisfied with an academic enrichment (which, by the way,
also isn’t the rule: I myself was extremely lucky with both my courses and instructors). Thus, it’s simply not enough
to point at a high academic standard and to declare that, unfortunately, the town of Davidson is not as overwhelming
for a European as Wurzburg, for instance, might be for an American. It’s not the College’s fault that Davidson is
neither an interesting nor, at least, a centrally located place. But then, it should be the College’s goal and task
to actively help the international students in making their stay more thrilling (not only academically exhausting). Offering short weekend trips
would be the first step to do this; it would also be a nice gesture to start such action before
an international student faint-heartedly makes a proposal or, at least, before some more radical person starts writing an article for
The Davidsonian. Maybe indifference or other serious reasons will hinder the College from improving its international program. Then, so my
suggestion, the College should try to give all future international students an absolutely realistic preview of what they have to
expect. Should I realize that Davidson College does not intend to change its international policy then I would see myself
forced to inform at least the students in my own home university of what they have to expect from Davidson
— and not from most of the students here. The latter point is important, because the few students who don’t
suffer from the indifference disease will never be able to make up for the rest of the students who are
about to pass away from it. Anyway, the indifference will always be a part of the American experience and it
has a lot of faces. Indifference is not only a major reason for the described passiveness, yet underlies many phenomena
which foreigners often regard as “typically American.” One of these phenomena certainly is a (political and cultural) ignorance which sometimes
reaches incredible dimensions, for instance when somebody, without even blushing, admits his not knowing of what the Contras in Nicaragua
are. This (political and cultural) ignorance is enhanced by an academic workload which doesn’t leave the time for reflecting and
thinking about the learned material.

Zengel is an exchange student from West Germany.

Mon-Thurs. 9-5
Fri. 9-6
Main St. Davidson
