Friday, February 6, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Linda Tatsapaugh

I have just returned from a semester in West Berlin to the disturbing discovery that one of my German counterparts
in Davidson is not having the positive experience that I had in her country. I do not believe, however, that
she can blame it on any of the reasons she named in her article. Diane Zengel mentioned Davidson’s smallness and
isolation, overburdening workload, the indifference of students, and a general lack of culture in America as obstructions to a complete
cultural experience. Actually, the problem is a clash of cultures and Miss Zengel’s failure to adapt.

No amount of preview information can prepare a person for the major adjustments he or she must make when plunging
into a new culture. The student, as the guest, however, must make the compromises and learn to fit in. She
must realize that passivity doesn’t work. It’s part of the American culture to “go out and get” what you want,
and that is what she must do.

Another type of indifference she mentioned concerned world affairs. She is very correct in pointing out American ignorance of and
apathy toward international events. Most Americans want to “leave that to the government,” a pathetic attitude, in my opinion. There
are several reasons for this state of mind, though. First of all, the United States is geographically far removed from
most of the rest of the world. We travel through states, not countries. Most Americans cannot afford to visit other
countries; the United States is the only world they know. Secondly, we have not been greatly affected as a country
by any recent history. Everything has happened in some far-off land. Germans, on the other hand, live daily with their
history, whether it’s in business ventures, vacations, visiting relatives in East Germany, or traveling to West Berlin. Borders and the
East are a fact of everyday life.

Insulting the accepted way of life in the host country will not help the transition, and it defeats the purpose
of study abroad, which is to learn acceptance of a new environment. It is true that Davidson is a rather
small and isolated town, especially for anyone used to sizeable cities and the excellent West German transportation system. However, small
towns are a very distinct part of Southern American culture, McDonald’s, gas stations, and all. I had the pleasure of
visiting Wurzburg for a few days in December, and I must say I find Davidson every bit as exciting, even
without castles and cobblestone. In fact, I found the open space around Davidson refreshing after the tightly-packed, monotonously gray buildings
of German towns. Miss Zengel's and my differing preferences are merely a matter of familiarity. This is my home, that’s
hers.

Davidson’s academic workload is notoriously heavy. In America, such stringency is often highly regarded (though not necessarily by the students).
It is unfortunate that Miss Zengel was not forewarned of this emphasis on studies, for it does greatly shape the
Davidson Experience. The large amount of studying is not inherently wrong; it is only very different from the policy of
West German universities, in which students have comprehensive yearly exams, and are therefore not nearly as pressured to keep on
top of their subjects. Davidson can certainly be a shock for anyone coming out of such an atmosphere, but it
is part of our culture, something visiting students must adapt to. It is always possible to take a lighter course
load, particularly when there is no credit involved, as in Miss Zengel’s case.

One negative result of intense studies is the lack of time left for the arts and social events. When students
are wrapped up in their courses, it is often hard to drag them away or even to distract their minds.
It is this busyness that Miss Zengel has interpreted as indifference. There is not time for all our good intentions
and studying, too. However, most of us can be coerced into slipping away for a good time or two if
the perpetrator is insistent enough. Opportunity is not always going to knock at Davidson; you have to track it down.

Perhaps the college should do more for its international students, but the possibilities for independent and organized adventures are numerous,
as evidenced in every Announcement Sheet; all it takes is the initiative to sign up. Miss Zengel’s attacks on American
culture were unfounded and probably either lingering culture shock or January homesickness. I understand her discouraged feelings, because I had
to adjust to exactly the opposite things in her country. I did not get a meaningless, “How are you?” Instead,
people on German streets passed me stonily, even when I attempted a greeting. I had to suffer through a thousand
handshakes every time I joined or departed from any group. I learned not to take showers every day, and that
pedestrians really do have the right of way, but that they insist on waiting for a green light, no matter
how empty the streets are.

Meals were the biggest culture-shockers. They are later, longer, and heavier than I was used to. I had the opposite
infuriating experience of Miss Zengel’s — I had to wait hours for my bill at any restaurant, which was difficult
to reconcile with German punctuality. Germans are very traditional, especially concerning meals. Coffee and tea must be served in the
proper cups, out of the proper pitchers, none of which are interchangeable. Although wine is not usually served in the
plastic glasses Miss Zengel complained of, it can be bought in cardboard cartons. And birthday dinners are served backwards (by
the guest of honor, I learned), with dessert first, and they last for too many hours. Germans look for any
excuse to celebrate. During my stay, I went to two parties for the construction of a house, one for the
foundation, the other for the roof.

The American sense of independence was one thing I could not totally give up. Many Germans cannot understand why we
want to leave home for college. They are a lot more family-oriented, partially because it is difficult for young people
to find housing. I found it possible to fit in without giving up too much.Though, and the sacrifice was well
worth the bit of culture I learned. Miss Zengel mentioned the plight of the poor and of Native Americans. We
do have serious problems to deal with here. Germany, however, is not devoid of such troubles either. For instance, there
are thousands of unwanted Turkish people in West Berlin, whom the government is more interested in keeping out than integrating
into the country. Although West Germany’s social democracy provides more for its citizens than our capitalistic democracy, there are still
many homeless and hungry people, a few of whom I met while working for a city mission. These problems, however,
do not prevent Germans from being at least as nationalistic as we are. They just don’t like to admit their
patriotism, with the Nazi era still so recent. I can empathize with Miss Zengel’s difficulties living in Davidson, but I
would like to point out some real good she can find here. Contrary to her claim, I have found lots
of room for individuality, and many students who have taken advantage of it, creating new groups, voicing new opinions, and
refusing to conform. The Honor Code does not “undermine the development of self-responsibility,” as she says; rather, it promotes it
by challenging students to consider their actions seriously and to accept the responsibility of reporting any breach in the trust
which has been built up over 150 years. I personally appreciate having the freedom to take exams when I want
and knowing that my signature is respected as the truth. Davidson's smallness allows for more intimacy among the community. That
means more contact with the same students, which provides greater potential for close friendships. I know of several international students
at Davidson who have planned extensive trips across the U.S., relying solely on friends they have met at Davidson to
act as hosts in their respective states. In closing, I would like to quote part of a story I was
given to read at the beginning of my semester with the Experiment in International Living (EIL) in West Berlin. The
story, entitled “The Green Banana” (Odyssey, Newsletter of the EIL, vol. III, No. 2, Mar. 1974), concerned the center of
the world. The author had discovered the center in a foreign country, as pointed out by the natives, who also
showed him how to use green bananas in car repairs, an idea that his American mind had never considered. In
contemplating this new information about the center, which conflicted with his own knowledge that the center was in New England,
he came to the realization that “every place represents the center of the world. The number of such centers is
incalculable, and no one student or traveler can experience all of them, but once a conscious breakthrough to a second
center is made, a life-long perspective and collection can begin. Eventually, the student has a strong sense of identity in
two centers, in two cultures. Both have special meanings, and the student has doubled his or her self-awareness and cultural
awareness.” I hope Miss Zengel’s dissatisfaction with her experience here is only temporary, because as long as she concentrates on
her frustrations with this strange new center, she will not be able to identify with it. She has taken the
risk of leaving family and friends. I challenge her now to take one more risk, to step out and actively
participate in our center. And, Diane, look me up if I don’t find you first. We have a lot to
discuss, and I have a car just waiting to explore “the nearer environment!” Tatsapaugh is a junior religion major from
Greensboro, NC.

Continued from page 12

Thirdly, because of the after-tax profit a unit can now retain, the director would now be able to use part
of it as a bonus to encourage hard workers and in certain units a floating wages system has come into
practice. All these above-mentioned measures were designed to solve the problem of the lack of incentive. The bonus system was
first introduced in the early 1970s, when Deng Xiao-Ping regained his power. It was abruptly termed a “capitalistic trick” and
Deng himself was charged with “going capitalist” and was for the second time deprived of his premiership. But after 1978,
when he again gained his power, he started to play all his “capitalistic tricks.” Now, having explained the Chinese economic
reforms, I would like to draw back your attention to the question of whether China is becoming a capitalist country,
and point out why I think not. First, in the rural reform, although lands were divided into pieces, they were
“contracted” to households. The state still retains the ownership. The state government still sets quotas on each household to guarantee
the basic supply of food. The household can make a profit only after they have fulfilled the state quota. But
these limited reforms have provided sufficient incentive to increase production. This agrees with my thesis that what the Chinese leaders
really want to do is to solve the fundamental problem of the lack of incentive in the economic system, while
at the same time retaining its socialist nature. And we all know that it is public ownership that decides the
socialist nature. In the urban reform, although small private businesses were allowed to exist and production units were made into
independent entities to increase efficiency, and despite the change of relationship between the central government and its basic production units,
the state still retains the ownership, still has under its direct control all the major industries, and the state still
sets annual quotas for production units. Market mechanisms and Deng's “capitalistic tricks” were allowed to play only a secondary role.
So, this is also in accordance with my thesis. However, despite the Chinese leader’s determination to build socialism with Chinese
characteristics, there are some irreconcilable conflicts of basic theory which determination alone cannot resolve. In their reform effort, the Chinese
leaders have already abandoned the long-cherished socialist ideal of equality in favor of social incentive. The question remains whether this
first step alone would be sufficient to solve all the problems without touching the fundamental question of ownership. There have
already been discussions among Chinese economists of a new kind of ownership — shareholding. This suggests a new direction in
the Chinese economic reform. Whether the Chinese leaders would be willing to go so far, only history can tell. Xie
is an exchange student from China.
