Friday, May 8, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Coming Home

The moon on the ground tonight
Bright
Is a wet reflection of the glow
Face
From your foggy window
Eyes
Down the hill I walk alone
Touch
To the bright pool of rainwater
Near
Carefully I step
Warm
Into the center of the moon
Yours
And watch the bright ripples.
Mine
Caress the tall grass

Mr. Wizard's World

Drunk in vinegar
Rolled tightly
Pressed unyielding into a bottle
One egg
You laugh as you explain
We wait nine months
It will harden, not hatch
Regain its shape —
Round egg, narrow entrance
Aborted, bottled,
Left on a curiosity shelf
Your shelf or mine?
How do we divide the bottle
And preserve the mystery?

Before me in the mirror
Your dark face
Black-hair haloed
Rage-touched eyes
Behind me
Reflection shatters
Splintered with the mirror beneath your fist
Spiderwebs cracking the broken images
Before me, in the mirror
You have so many eyes
All dark-fallen and watching
All the candles flicker
In tiny cracked-triangle boxes
My own broken reflection
Behind me, fragmented
You extend your pale hand
Leave a mark of blood on my white linen shoulder
The single candle sputters —
Dies —
Leaving only pieces of your distorted face
Before me, behind me
Mirrored

Observational Astronomy

Jupiter has four moons tonight,
And two bright bands of fire.
We are drawn here by the barely visible celestial
Beneath the great mirrored moon-eye.
You teach me to look into the lake of sky,
Catch stars like brook-trout, watch,
Then throw them back up to their rightful places
Glaring from the sky.
I see fresh-fallen snow crossed by a hunted wolf
Until you show me the craters on the moon,
Neon bright in full ice-light and shadow.
If the battered moon can shine so brightly,
In time your cratered heart will glow as fair.

Keeping Shop

I watch you with the distance of the salesgirl
As you trade partners like baseball cards
You come to me proudly
Your little-boy hands sticky with forgotten chewing gum
And show me your prize card
(The one with the soft expression and the deep blue eyes)
For a dime I will sell you a chance on another selection
A better player
Perhaps one more rare
I watch as you destroy the wrapper
I see in your little-boy eyes your joy or disgust
Another dime and your chances are twice the same
You depart without a word —
Leaving with me the shredded wrapper for disposal in my silent shop
Through the window I see you with your friends
Bickering in happy tones over the value of blue eyes and shy, soft smiles

FLORENCE SNIVELY

Words to End a Relationship

EDITORIAL

Yours truly,
SUDEEP SEN

Inside Art Editor

This issue of Inside Art is the final one this year with me as the editor as I graduate from
Davidson College in about three weeks’ time. What I am now interested in specifically is, that all the people who
wish to work for Inside Art for the coming school year may please contact me so that I can formally
hand over my responsibilities to them. I would also like to explain the mechanics of the process, i.e. handling of
contributions, selection, editing, layout, graphics, and editorial policies.

In this issue we feature the Vereen Bell Award Winners for 1987. We can publish only some selections or extracts
of the author's work due to paucity of space. The judge for the prestigious contest was Sam Ragan, the poet
laureate of North Carolina. I have really enjoyed editing this section this year especially going through all the contributions. Thanks
for the overwhelming response!

Inside

THE VEREEN BELL AWARD WINNERS 1987

First Prize: FLORENCE SNIVELY
Second Prize: SUDEEP SEN ’87
Third Prize: JIM DILLON ’89

CHANCE INSIGHT
By JIM DILLON ’89

“What do you see when you look up into the sky?”
“Well, there’s blue, and there are clouds, and sometimes they rain, and you see that.”
“Is that all you see?”
“Well, you see the tops of trees if you look at the sky close to the horizon.”
“Anything else?”
“There’s the sun, and at night there’s the moon and the stars.”
“Yes?”
“That’s all there is in the sky.”
“Please go get dressed, William. We need to leave soon.”

The boy got up and silently left the dimly lit room where Adriene Sykes remained. A digital clock was a
bright penumbra in the darkness. It was 6:12 a.m. Adriene Sykes was not tired and though the boy had yawned
every few minutes, she looked very fierce. Her face wasquite static and emotionless but penetrating. She looked like a woman
entranced and ghost-like against the dark rims of her glasses. The navy pin-stripe suit she wore did little to improve
her pale complexion. Her dark hair was cut very short. She sat forward on the sofa, her back very straight,
looking off into nothingness, but something was there. Something had to be there.

"I'm ready." Adriene Sykes hadn't noticed the boy come back into the room. His hair was combed back, and he
wore a small navy sweater and grey flannels. They looked conspicuously too old for him, but he looked very comfortable
in the clothes, not as if he liked them, but as if he were quite used to them.

"All right, William, we can go now." William. She never liked that name but was insistent on it. Not Bill
or Will. His name was William. Shakespeare, Wordsworth, Yeats, Faulkner; they were all William. Even William Carlos Williams who wrote
the nice little poem about the red wheelbarrow was William. Her son was William, and he would be called by
no other name. She remembered asking the man what his name was. She had hoped so much that it would
be William or John or James, but he was Jake, and no one was ever Jake.

They got into the car and rode in silence for a long time. She wondered what it was that the
boy, William, thought about as they rode. She was quite intense in her driving. She drove exactly five miles per
hour over the speed limit, she never stopped for yellow lights, and she never detoured from her course. Maybe if
William could drive, she was thinking, he might go a different route or drive at a different speed or maybe
even not notice things like that. Adriene Sykes pressed the accelerator toward the floorboard. The speedometer moved, and the car
was moving at ten miles over the speed limit.

"Why are you driving so fast?" It was the first thing the boy had said since they'd gotten into the
car. He was right. Going ten miles per hour over the speed limit was no different than going five over
the speed limit. She was still quite aware of how fast she was going, and she still followed the same
route, never stopping for yellow lights. She was unchangeable, and William knew that just as well as Adriene Sykes did.
She slowed back down, and that, she thought, was a sufficient answer to his question.

They rode for a while in silence until they pulled into the driveway of a colonial building. The car came
to a stop. Adriene Sykes looked at the boy. He gathered a stack of books and got out of the
car, closing the door behind him. Adriene Sykes watched the boy ascend the stairs. He would walk to the top
of the stairs, wave, and then open the large brown door to go inside. She would then drive off. Suddenly,
Adriene Sykes put the car into drive and pressed on the accelerator. She started to pull out of the driveway
and onto the road when she saw her son's figure in the rearview mirror. He stood at the top of
the steps, watching. He was motionless and expressionless, and Adriene Sykes did not feel good, but she did not stop.

Soon, she was on the road driving again. She breathed hard once. She had done that, at least that. She
thought about the boy. By now, he had entered the building. He was probably in a hallway walking toward a
classroom. The school was very bleak and colorless, and she wished there were somewhere she could send him that was
more colorful, but all of the private schools were the same way. She knew she could not send him to
public school. He would not like it there, she thought. The boy, William, said he would like it there, but
she knew that he would not. Or maybe it was for her own reasons which had nothing to do with
the boy that she did not send him. Maybe she would worry too much, or maybe it was just that...
no, she thought, she couldn't think of that. She must not think of that.

She passed an intersection and completely ignored the yellow light. The car moved at a consistent speed of fifty miles
per hour. The sign she had just passed said the speed limit was forty-five. Adriene Sykes could not figure out
what to do next. She had left the boy, and it was different. She knew that he knew that this
time was different. Every day she left him there, but today the urge that Adriene Sykes had been...

Continued to page 15
