Director Connie Welsh.

~The Davidsonian
Wednesday, April 15, 1987

Brighton Beach Memoirs

By MICHELE MILLER
On April 24, 25, 30, and May 1, 2, the theatre department brings to us Neil Simon’s Brighton Beach Memoirs,
an autobiographical comedy about a young writer going through the rites of passage.

Brighton Beach Memoirs is the story of Eugene Jerome, a budding writer growing up in a Jewish family. The play
is set in 1937 in a depressed neighborhood of New York. Eugene, the young Neil Simon character, lives with his
parents, his aunt, his brother, and two female cousins. The family barely scrapes by in their crowded flat. Eugene writes
as a defense against claustrophobia.

“You can look at it as a young boy’s rite of passage and as a family’s struggle for survival,” says
visiting director Connie Welsh, artistic director of Charlotte’s Tarradiddle Players. For Welsh, the phrase “a family tree grows in Brighton
Beach” sums up what she hopes to convey. “This is a family who really has to survive and the only
way they had to survive was by depending on each other and relating to each other,” says Welsh. She concentrates
on the family’s need for each other, their problems, and their relationships.

Theater department presents

Neil Simon is striving in Brighton Beach Memoirs toward refinement and maturity in his writing, says Welsh. “Neil Simon is
the most popular playwright that has ever lived. His plays are produced more than any other writer, probably even Shakespeare.
I think he is so popular because he catches the pulse of the present time and he twists it with
a little bit of humor. He’s fun and he’s human and people enjoy him,” says Welsh. “Simon is very clever;
he is a superb craftsman. He knows where the laughs are coming and knows where to build.”

Continued to page 7

Dr. Gardner offers new perspective on U.S.S.R.

By AARON LEVINE

Davidson's lecture circuit has been dominated this year by experts discussing the Soviet Union; it is refreshing to hear an
ordinary tourist speak on the topic for a change. Wednesday in the 900 Room, as part of the Union’s Open
Luncheon series, Davidson theater professor Joe Gardner provided that change. Gardner traveled to the U.S.S.R. in January; his lecture was
co-sponsored by the Dean Rusk program.

He was especially interested in the Soviet theater. In visiting the Kirov Ballet, he noted that while the artistry was
just as good as that of any Western ballet company, the technical qualities of the night’s production were not up
to Western standards. Gardner estimated that the Soviets are approximately 30 years behind the United States when it comes to
the technical aspects of staging.

The Kirov was not the only ballet Gardner attended while in Russia. Near the end of his journey, while in
Moscow, he attended a performance at the world-renowned Bolshoi Ballet given in honor of Yuri Grigorievich, its director and choreographer.

Gardner remarked that the performances were “excellent.” He was able to attend a small party given in honor of Grigorievich.
Gardner remarked that it was paradoxical that what he witnessed at the party was the “pinnacle” of the class system
that purports to be classless.

Some of the lecture was spent on reflection on the lives of other types of artists also living in the
Soviet Union. How does a writer function in a society such as this? For a writer to be published, said
Gardner, he needs a name, and the only way to gain a name besides pushing the official party propaganda is
to have success in the underground market.

One person Gardner met, a poet/translator named Olga, was once “demoted” from a previous job because she had received “too
much information from abroad.”

“An artist needs to be careful in a closed society,” Gardner said. For a writer to be officially published in
the Soviet Union, his work has to be passed through the bureaucrats in the writers’ union, which serves as a
pre-censorship body. Gardner stated that to have one’s work pored over by bureaucrats who probably would not know good art
when they saw it was “distasteful.” Good artistry might be overlooked.

Theater and philosophical art dilemmas did not preoccupy Gardner’s time; he also found time to note some of the quaint
customs of the Soviets. When one enters a hotel for a room, one’s passport and visa are held.

Customs like this, while not overtly repressive, represent an attempt to control one’s movements. Without a passport or visa, one
cannot get far in Russia. Gardner suggested that this might represent only the desire to be protective with guests, rather
than a desire to keep Americans and other foreigners away. The people were friendly, he said.

Theater professor Joe Gardner reading Pravda
