Saturday, October 10, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Trustees meet, plan new campaign

By ED PATTE

Last week, the Davidson College Trustees met and discussed strategic planning for the new financial campaign.

This financial campaign is part of a five-year strategic planning process. The purpose of the process is to review and
quantify the financial implications of managing the college, taking into consideration costs such as professors’ salaries and facilities expenses. According
to Julius W. Melton Jr., Director of Development, this year’s figure lies somewhere between $150 million and $160 million. Once
this figure has been attained, a strategic and systematic plan is developed looking at different sources for fundraising.

This feasibility study for fundraising consists of focus group meetings and the input of an independent fundraising council. During these
focus group meetings, President Kuykendall and at least one key trustee meet with small groups of possible contributors representative of
key geographical areas such as Richmond, VA, New York, NY, and San Francisco. They inform them of Davidson College’s needs
and aspirations for the future.

The fundraising council works independently of the college, interviewing people to assess reactions to the college’s fundraising efforts. Melton mentioned
that projects such as the sports complex, the Dean Rusk program in International Studies, the fine arts facilities, and the
revising of the computer system will be incorporated into this financial campaign once it is underway sometime after fall 1988.

While this financial campaign is projected in a five-year plan, the strategic campaign process is implemented on a rolling basis
with a new five-year plan being developed each year. This allows the college to continue its long-range planning with a
rolling target, while still concentrating on its year-by-year management.

YOU'VE SPENT A SMALL FORTUNE IN COLLEGE. INVEST ANOTHER $45.

Career Conferences of America

Seniors/Grad Students:

Get into the job market now, not six months from now! Career Network USA is a national recruitment firm specializing
in matching Fortune 5000 companies with graduating seniors. For $45 (the cost of most “resume services”) here’s what you receive:

- Immediate entry into our computerized database, GradTrak, available to 7,500 firms.
- Your resume is expertly formatted, laser printed, and updated free of charge.
- You are issued a Career Network USA Membership Card. We’ll help you with career opportunities for life!
- Toll-Free Hotline to answer any work-related questions.
- Quarterly Newsletter with current job market details.

Price tag: $45 for life! Fill in our coupon, send your resume with a check or money order by December
15! (If mailed before October 21, we'll reduce it to $38!)

Name:
College or University:

Send to:
Career Conferences of America Inc.
P.O. Box 1852
New Haven, CT 06508

Career Network USA
P.O. Box 1852
New Haven, CT 06508

KRIEG, from page 1

President.” Krieg believes that a previous lack of supervision led to the secrecy and clandestine operations that have marked the
last few years in the White House.

“He who controls the paper controls the ability of the President to make a decision,” Krieg said. “They (the NSC
staff) went completely outside the system on Iran.”

Later, in response to a question, Krieg offered insights into why Howard Baker, who had been considered a strong possible
Republican Presidential candidate for 1988, had joined the White House staff as Chief of Staff. He offered three reasons (which
were purely conjecture; “Howard’s never sat down and discussed it with me,” Krieg laughed): Baker did not ever really want
to run for the Presidency again. “He tried it once, and personally, he hated it”; that Baker saw Ronald Reagan
and the Presidency itself in serious trouble. “He saw that the people around the President were giving him bad advice
and saw that he could do a better job”; and a sense of great loyalty to public service and the
Republican Party.

Krieg challenged students to spend time in the public sector. “The money is terrible, but you get a perspective of
what the country stands for,” he said. “Your ability to affect change is real, if you want to work hard
enough.”
