*~become a men's hall. Monday, March 30, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN x Campus housing situation set for dramatic changes By NELLE McCORKLE All freshmen men will not occupy Belk residence hall during the 1987-88 academic year, according to Director of Residence Life Tom Jennings. Instead, the three upper floors of Little Dormitory and selected Belk halls will house freshman men, Jennings said. Belk areas designated for freshman housing are first west, second west, third west, second east, third east, and basement halls. This arrangement permits upperclassmen to occupy first east and fourth floor halls and the building's entire center section. Other planned housing changes include the conversion of Watts third and fourth floors and Knox second floor to women’s halls. Sentelle fourth floor, currently occupied by women, will become a men’s hall.

Increased Belk dormitory damages prompted discussion of integrating the freshman and upperclassman housing, Jennings said: “The main reason for the mix-up of the freshman class is we've identified some problems with vandalism and trash this year,” he said. “I’ve seen a trend in the past few years to more recklessness.”

Belk physical damages totaled $2500 during the 1986-87 fall and winter terms, Jennings estimated. This figure represents a $1000 increase over the $1500 Belk vandalism fee for the entire 1985-86 academic year. Charges primarily involve the replacement of ceiling tiles. Unless individuals claim responsibility for damages, the Residence Life Office prorates repair costs among residents of damaged halls. Malicious damage violates the Code of Responsibility, falls under the Dean of Students’ jurisdiction, and can incur an increased housing lottery number as a new penalty this year. The Residence Life Office handles accidental damage cases. Upperclassman housing did not report increased vandalism this year.

Repeated Watts candy machine break-ins this year led to complaints by the College’s vending contractor, according to Director of Auxiliary Services, Carlton Pritchard. Vandalism appears confined to all-male dormitories, Jennings noted. “Our main reason for this housing shift is the damage and responsibility issues... Women don’t seem to have those kinds of problems,” he said.

Jennings explained the rationale for planned housing shifts: Knox dormitory possesses an exterior door combination lock, unlike Sentelle and Little dormitories. “We want to have as many women as we can in buildings with locks on the door,” Jennings said. Asked about the housing changes’ possible consequences for freshman class unity, Dean of Students Will Terry said, “I certainly believe in freshman class unity, but I think there are other ways we can achieve that.” Jennings said, “I think there will still be freshman class unity because we're putting large chunks of people in Little and Belk.”

Diffusion of freshman men within upperclass dormitories may produce greater calm, Terry said, “I have a hope that doing this may enable upperclassmen to make the dorms more civilized and less noisy,” he said. Jennings stressed the housing change’s potential for heightened academic concentration. He said, “I know our upperclass students are committed enough to their academics to want to live in a place that has a more academic environment. We hope they instill that in the freshmen.”

Dispersal of freshman men’s halls within upperclass housing may tighten freshman men’s hall identity, Jennings said. He expects heightened intramural athletic competition. Jennings also noted the opportunity for increased fraternity influence: “There’s potential for fraternities to use that accessibility of a shared dormitory as an environment for rushing.” Jennings emphasized that freshman halls will remain intact within upperclassman housing. Physically, Little residence halls are sharply defined, unlike Belk’s U-shaped floor plan. “It’s hard to feel a sense of the individual hall when you're on a floor of 80 people,” Jennings said.

Both Jennings and Terry noted the housing shifts’ experimental nature. The planned changes emerged from February's faculty/staff retreat suggestions; Jennings drafted a specific proposal approved by Terry. Long-range housing plans incorporate the construction of a new dormitory. Tentative locations to be discussed at the May Board of Trustees meeting include the Lingle Manor area.

Kappa Sigma bids for recognition By SUSAN PEARSALL Members of the Kappa Sigma Interest Group presented a petition for recognition as a fraternity at a meeting of the Council on Campus and Religious Life Monday, Mar. 23. The petition, signed by 64 students committed to joining Kappa Sig if Dean Terry and the C.C.R.L. decide to reinstate the Delta Chapter at Davidson, will be voted on next Monday. If reinstated, Kappa Sig would try to begin eating as a fraternity next fall in the Emanon or ATO house.

The petition, penned by prospective Kappa Sigs with the help of representatives from Kappa Sigma’s National Headquarters, was, according to a member of the Interest Group’s Executive Committee, Conrad Doenges, “a statement of who we are, what we’ve done, and what we plan to do.” The students in the Interest Group wanted to form a fraternity and not an all-male eating house because, explained Doenges, “... the fraternity system has been succeeding financially. We'd fit right into the existing fraternity organization. We also have alumni support [for a fraternity] since there used to be a Kappa Sig here.” As a group, Kappa Sig hopefuls, generally sophomores and freshmen, are optimistic about their future.Adjacent to Richardson dormitory and the land immediately east of Knox dormitory, Jennings said. Eventually, perimeter houses will revert to office space and faculty housing: “We'll keep the perimeter houses as student housing until new housing is built,” Jennings said.

Charter and on-campus frat house their chances of becoming a viable fraternity. They have put in the necessary community service hours (including a Cystic Fibrosis Dance-a-thon which raised $1,200, and workdays at Loaves and Fishes and the Charlotte Food Bank) and have had several social functions in other Patterson Court houses at Homecoming and Midwinters. In addition, they will have the support of numerous alumni and their children who are eagerly awaiting the return of the Delta Chapter, according to the petition. Kappa Sigs were encouraged too, by the number of freshmen who signed the petition indicating a pledge to join; over thirty freshmen signed even without the incentive of a house.

SGA officers from page 1

Doenges said the housing situation is another issue the SGA will have to face. He said the SGA will attempt to communicate student complaints to appropriate officials. He also argued that more support should be given to club and intramural sports, saying they were a “crucial outlet for student involvement” but that they often get bypassed in funding by the administration. 

Nagendran said the SGA has begun to take steps in assisting with the housing problem with the formation of a housing committee and conducting a student survey. She argued that the situation is one “that can change” and that the SGA needs to “push the issue.” She also stated that the SGA’s biggest problem is that it doesn’t do enough with its resources and said that student involvement with ideas would be helpful in this area.

Doenges was a class senator his sophomore year and was co-chairman of this year’s career symposium. He is a junior history major from Tulsa, Oklahoma, and he said he was interested in the position because he represents a diverse group of student interests. Nagendran has served as a senator for two years. She was co-chairman of this year’s communications committee and served on the rides and leadership training committees. She is also involved in pep band, wind ensemble, and winter guard. She is a music major from Auburn, Alabama. Nagendran says her position has great potential.

New gym from page 1

The building will prove to be an invaluable asset in the recruitment of athletes for Davidson teams. Basketball Coach Bobby Hussey goes so far as to state in the Sports Information Guide to basketball that he feels the building and new basketball arena “will benefit our program more than any other single thing I can recall.” One question which remains unanswered, however, is how Davidson will fill a 6,000-seat arena. Despite the basketball team’s winning record this past season, Johnston Gymnasium sold out its 2,500-seat capacity just two times. Even so, Morris is confident that with the continued success of the basketball program plus the tremendous population growth of north Mecklenburg County and more aggressive marketing to the communities surrounding Charlotte, more seats will be filled. Furthermore, he noted, the increased seating capacity will allow many of the games currently played in Charlotte (i.e. Wake Forest, Duke) to be played at Davidson. Morris also emphasized that because the retractable seats occupy an area which will serve as an all-purpose gym for general student use, the extra seating is a simple and effective means of utilizing that space. Overall, Morris is enthusiastic about the future prospects of the new center and believes the building will have an overwhelmingly positive impact on all members of the college community. “Construction of this sports complex is a continuation of a predominant theme on campus — commitment to excellence. If it is in the same league with the E.H. Little Library and the Vail Commons, I think we will be very happy.”

Will Kappa Sigma be accepted by the rest of Patterson Court if it does, in fact, become Davidson’s seventh fraternity? Dunn Hollingsworth, member of SAE, believes so: “I think it’s a good move to see another fraternity arriving on campus. I think most other ‘fraternity men’ would feel the same way, because it would be another pro-fraternity voice on the councils, and it would provide another alternative for freshmen.” Doug Hicks agrees: “Kappa Sig prospectives are really cool, but had different interests from the guys in other fraternities. I think the campus will accept them when they become a frat.” Parry Aycock, SAE pledge, claims that the need for another fraternity is obvious: “Look at how many independents there were last year. If that’s where they fit in, that’s great!” However, some Patterson Court members, who wish not to be identified, believe that another fraternity is simply not needed at Davidson. Potential Kappa Sigs feel that Kappa Sigma offers them something that the other fraternities don’t have. “It offered a different atmosphere from the other frats — one where you could really make good friends and have fun,” says freshman Hill Harris.

UNITED CAROLINA BANK
UCB
MON—THURS. 9-5
FRI. 9-6
Downtown Davidson