- Ready-made term paper excuses, page 5
Volume LXXVIII, Number 6
By BILL SCOUTEN and MARGARET CARROLL

On October 8, 1987, at its second meeting of the term, the Patterson Court Council reached a unanimous decision that trays would not be used as a means of distributing alcohol at parties on Patterson Court. According to Ginger Broaddus, president of the PCC, the purpose of the Patterson Court alcohol policy is to educate the student community of Davidson College in the “responsible service and consumption of alcoholic beverages on Patterson Court.” The unanimous decision of the PCC to outlaw trays, therefore, is aimed to discourage what Broaddus termed “general distribution of alcohol” and to promote a healthy attitude of responsibility and fun.

The problem of drinking on the Davidson campus is not a new one. However, with the advent of the twenty-one-year-old drinking age, the drinking situation fell into disarray. Accordingly, the administration of Davidson College formulated an alcohol policy which would adhere to state law while also stressing the involvement of students in its execution. Patterson Court is responsible for regulating its own parties. Comprised of representatives (the president and treasurer) from each house on Patterson Court, the PCC monitors the alcohol service and distribution of “any party, social function, or event sponsored by a Patterson Court house on or off campus.” This policy requires much student cooperation.

The alcohol policy of Davidson “does not include provisions for a dry campus.” However, “dry campuses do exist at other schools, where fraternities and sororities have not been able to devise an effective means of educating their members, and instilling responsibility,” said Broaddus. “Responsibility” is the key word in the use of alcohol. Indeed, it was recently suggested by the trustee Committee on Student Life that Davidson students are drinking irresponsibly. The trustee committee is not blind to the consumption of alcohol on college campuses nationwide. Will Terry, Dean of Students, advised that the trustees have a good feel for the student body and with what goes on. Consequently, the committee is concerned with the legal and personal welfare of the students and of the college, in that order.

Despite the increased concern of the trustees, Broaddus commented that the changes in the Patterson Court alcohol policy were imminent and had nothing to do with the fall trustee meeting. She added further that trays should have been outlawed earlier. The policy concerning the distribution of alcohol originally read: “individuals removing alcoholic beverages from the designated service area will do so with the understanding that they are responsible if the beverage is given to an under-age individual for consumption.” (section I, article 7) The regulation was never qualified by a maximum number of beverages that could be brought up: thus, the tray came into use.

Broaddus, with the backing of the PCC, believes that use of the tray as a means of distributing alcohol defeats the purpose of the alcohol policy and actually endangers the student. First of all, the use of the tray encourages “general distribution of alcohol.” The PCC was formed to educate the campus about responsible drinking. Broaddus expressed the PCC’s view saying that the decision to curtail this type of distribution came not as much from the legal standpoint, but rather from the personal standpoint. As explained by Broaddus, “the premise behind the Patterson Court alcohol policy, and behind our recent decision, is that we’re adult enough, mature enough, and responsible enough to handle situations involving alcoholic beverages.” And, of course, as SGA president...Conrad Doenges points out, it “puts a great deal of responsibility on the students to make this policy workable.”

Beer and White water on the Davidson Outdoors French Broad raft trip

Robert Nesbit

Faculty tenure committee requested

By FRANK FOLGER and WALT REYNOLDS

President Kuykendall has requested that Dean of Faculty Robert Williams and the Professional Affairs Committee consider the establishment of a Faculty Tenure Committee. This request was made during a September faculty meeting, but is not expected to reach the proposal status until this winter or spring.

Under the current tenure review system, the President and the Dean of Faculty are the sole advisers to the Board of Trustees concerning tenure renewal of faculty. Kuykendall indicated that most colleges and universities he knew of maintained committees for peer judgment and tenure promotion recommendations.

Kuykendall has made clear the fact that he has had “strong convictions” from the beginning about adding a committee of peers to the tenure review process at Davidson. During his interview for the position of President of the college, Kuykendall had been asked his opinions on tenure review: “The best way to approach this is through a recommendation from a committee of one’s peers,” was his response. Since then, Kuykendall said, he has had a desire for a change in the system regarding tenure review. The approach taken, if any, is still uncertain.

As the projected proposal is still in developmental stages, the possible role of a new faculty tenure committee remains in question as well. One possible approach would be for the committee to review the material that is provided in an individual’s folder pending a tenure decision and issue a recommendation to the Administration. The committee’s recommendation would be considered a relevant part of the subsequent recommendation to the Board of Trustees concerning the ultimate decision.

Whatever the case, Kuykendall has expressed without a doubt that he would like to see a system with more peer input into the decision process. “In the final analysis, one’s peers probably know better than anyone else exactly what the promise and potential of the individual teacher is going to be.” He cites several resources to judge the effectiveness and quality of professors, such as students’ opinions, various administrators through their contacts and the outside community of scholarship, but said the real focus should be the people standing beside these people in the teaching faculty.

This is not the first time in recent school history that a faculty tenure committee has been proposed. Shortly before Kuykendall was offered the position of president, a proposal for a similar committee was voted down. This fact may explain Kuykendall’s rationale for not immediately suggesting the idea once he became president.

If and when a proposal is made to the faculty, it will then be some time before it may be implemented. Implications of a proposal on the faculty bylaws and on the college constitution would require a thorough deliberation and vote by both the faculty and the Board of Trustees. The topic is now under study by the Professional Affairs Committee and the Vice President of Academic Affairs. Since the process of reviewing candidates for tenure for this year will soon begin, proposed changes would not be in effect for this year’s candidates. If approved, the change would be made effective for the 1988-89 school year at the earliest, he said.

Football drops another one in blowout

News: Page 4
Ortmayer quits '88 race

Features: Page 3
How to beat stress

Opinions: Page 7
MacLads take heat

Sports: Page 7