Features

A look backward: Dr. Mark Sentelle

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

Sentelle Dorm bears the name of one of the most unique and dedicated men in Davidson’s history. Dr. Mark Sentelle
taught at Davidson for 38 years, instilling a firm respect for the rules and ideals of the college in his
students. “He was more than a teacher, he was a personality,” the Charlotte Observer stated.

The valedictorian of the Davidson class of 1894, Sentelle went on to receive his Ph.D. at Yale and Princeton. He
returned to Davidson in 1903 to teach religion and philosophy. In 1921, Sentelle was appointed to the newly created post
of Dean of Students, where he remained until his retirement in 1940. As both a professor and a dean, his
forceful personality affected administration and students. They knew him for his calm, dignified manner and his belief in going by
the rules without exception. Sentelle treated all students and faculty with the same exacting fairness—extenuating circumstances didn’t matter.

Chalmers Davidson underlined this point by explaining a typical incident which came under Sentelle’s jurisdiction. In those days, attendance counted
as a part of a student’s GPA. One day, a certain student who had not missed a day of class
for 2 years decided to hitch-hike into Charlotte and back. However, when he attempted to return, he found he couldn’t
pick up a ride. Instead of waiting any longer, he decided to walk 20 miles along dirt roads to get
back to Davidson. He arrived at 5:00, told his roommate to wake him at 7:00, and tumbled into bed. The
roommate forgot and the student missed all his classes. That afternoon...

What can we believe about Santa?

By BILL SCOUTEN

Every Who Down in Who-ville Liked Christmas a lot... But the Grinch, Who lived just north of Who-ville, Did NOT!

Christmas... let’s think about it for a minute. Presents, a Christmas tree, friends, and parties. Great, isn’t it?! But, wait...
there’s more to this festive occasion. What about Santa Claus? What about old St. Nick... who is he?

I’ve often wondered just how I handled the notion of Santa Claus as a child. I guess that Christmas is
such an exciting time that I really didn’t question the identity of Santa in all the pre-season hubbub. What a
hoot!

In search of Santa’s real identity... Just a reminder -- Santa Claus, who is said to reside in the North
Pole, resembles a jolly old elf whose stomach jiggles like a bowl full of jelly when he laughs. His cheeks
are rosy and his dimples, how merry. Although it is said that there is only one Santa Claus, I could
have sworn that I saw Santa arriving in NY, NJ, Pa, and Va simultaneously by train, plane, helicopter, or car.
What about his sled? Perhaps old Rudolph’s light-bulbed nose has burned out... maybe Dasher has been afflicted with arthritis of
the hoof, or Donder was shot mistakenly in the backwoods of West Virginia as hunting season opened in late November.

What has happened to the reindeer that used to play such an important part in the delivery of the presents
to all good little boys and girls? Do cars, jets, and trains get better gas mileage? Does it take just
too much time and effort to keep reindeer fit and healthy? Or is it that the reindeer are just too
busy playing “reindeer games” to prance through the night sky, their bells heralding Santa’s glorious arrival. Perhaps UPS can deliver
cheaper!

Santa is just not what he used to be. I was sure when I saw at least ten characters standing
on the street, each who claimed that he was indeed Santa Claus. This incident reminds me of the movie classic
“Miracle on 34th Street,” its protagonist trying to prove his identity in the midst of non-believers. Surely Santa Claus does
exist...

What do little ones think? What can they believe in? Santa is in the mall, on the corner, in the
windows of stores, on T.V. He is more than a person, he is a movie star, a celebrity. I would
venture to say that little Virginia O’Hanlon was just as worried as I when she asked: “I am eight years
old.”Some of my little friends say there is no Santa Claus. Papa says, “If you see it in the Sun
it’s so.” Please tell me the truth, is there a Santa Claus? What can we believe in? In the wake
of that 1984 horror movie Silent Night, Deadly Night with its psychopathic killer dressed in a Santa suit, what do
we believe? Again, the question of Santa’s identity... (may it be pointed out that a simple rearrangement of the word’s
letters yields “satan.” Sort of special, isn’t it!?)

What of the psychologists who claim that Santa Claus does harm to the children of society by suggesting that good
things will be received regardless of behavior or the critic that claims Santa Claus as a symbol of commercialism? Dare
we believe in Santa as a person? I say yes! Pat Boone in his book The Real Christmas, I believe,
addresses this problem best. He relates his experience of Christmas to the reader. Christmas is overwhelming in its joy and
happiness. Santa is very real. But one day it happens. In the search for Santa and...

See SPOOF, p. 8

“Dear Confidential Health, Is cocaine really harmful? Is it true that you can become addicted to it? From what I’ve
seen, it seems fairly harmless. What do you have to say about this?”

Cocaine is a widely misunderstood drug. For years there was a misconception that cocaine was not addicting. We now know
that that impression simply is not true.

Cocaine stimulates the central nervous system. Users report elevated blood pressure and pulse rate, increased respiration, dilation of the pupils,
and increased excitement, among other symptoms. The rapidity with which cocaine acts upon the body creates a “rush” sensation. If
cocaine is snorted, the uptake response can occur in about half a minute or less. If one injects cocaine, the
rush may begin in less than 10 seconds. The effect is relatively short-lived, however, usually lasting for 20 or 30
minutes. The initial rush is seldom duplicated. More and more cocaine is necessary to provide a similar feeling. For the
beginning user, there appears to be little backlash from the euphoria of the initial rush. As more cocaine is used
to duplicate the initial rush, the strength of the “down side” increases. Darryl Inaba, director of the Haight-Asbury Drug Detox
Clinic, has said, “The longer you use cocaine, the more natural body stimulants (neurotransmitters which make you alert, excited, involved,
ambitious, and motivated) are broken down. So instead of becoming more active, alert, and lifted, a person becomes morose, irritable,
and depressed.”

Because cocaine mimics the body’s natural functions, it is hard for a user to recognize compulsive behavior. Often, this compulsive
use comes from fear of the backlash or “down side” of the cocaine rush. Cocaine is usually somewhere from 30
to 80 percent pure. This means that 70 to 20 percent of the ingested drug consists of impurities. Dealers often
mix cocaine with a variety of substances like heroin, inactive sugars, and local anesthetics in attempts to increase their profits.
A good reference book on cocaine is 800-Cocaine by Dr. Mark Gold. Dr. Gold also runs a national toll-free hotline
for questions about cocaine. It can be reached at 1-800-COCAINE.

Send your questions and comments to:
Confidential Health
Davidson College Infirmary
Davidson, NC 28036
