Friday, April 24, 1987

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Students’ voices need to be heard
Elizabeth Newell Keenan

It’s been a long year even for those of us who've only been here for spring term. The impact of this year’s changes has been felt by all. Davidson is changing, and in the eyes of many of the students, it’s changing for the worse. The charisma of Davidson used to be the students’ love of their school. There couldn’t be a better image for a school, yet this image is slipping. As of late, Davidson has become less loved by its students, perhaps because they feel that it is no longer their school. Rather, because of the past few “rash” decisions made by the administration, it appears that Davidson is forgetting that the school is here for the students. At this stage in our lives, decisions that affect us should be made by us or with some of our input. Some of the most recently made new policies, such as the moving of some of the freshmen males to Little dorm, the absurd practice of locking the Chambers classrooms, and the newly created noise committee and its noise “marshals,” have not been brought to the student body. However, even when such propositions are brought to the students (usually to the SGA), the opinions of the students still don’t carry any weight. It is one thing to ask for someone's opinion and it is another to listen. The administration needs to make an honest effort to seek the student body’s opinion and to listen to us. And please don’t approach us when you’ve already made the decision. Remember — this is our school. Due to the recent policy changes, student morale has declined. There have been no “morale boosters” to counterbalance the seemingly negative changes. This change in feeling toward the school can only harm the school’s image. My suggestion is that the administration and faculty open the doors to their offices and take a good look around. Can you see what your changes are indirectly doing? Has anyone in the administration noticed the great increase in the number of people who go JYA? Of course, part of that is for the individual and the experience, but there is also a great need to get away from Davidson. Have you noticed that many people are simply packing up and leaving mid-term?

Tim Brown

Oh, ’tis spring! Geese return from vacationing in the South to fill the skies with delightful ritual song. Flowers decorate the ground that winter twice blanketed with snow. Gracefully, children rise up off their calloused bottoms to parade with others in warm pollen-filled winds. The smell of freshly-cut grass, cut by grumbling parents, tickles pleasantly the sensitivity of every passer-by. White clouds gently fall from blue skies to rest on the shoulders of green trees. Cat and dog frolic together, allowing one to think analogously of lion and lamb. What better time is there to pray as Robert Frost prayed: “Oh, give us pleasure in the flowers today/ And give us not to think so far away/ As the uncertain harvest; keep us here/ All simply in the springtime of the year.” Unfortunately, springtime is deflowered ritually by young adults who — ignorant of Emerson’s conviction that the body exists to support the mind — believe that their bodies exist to support their sex glands.

As American society ages ungracefully, parents rely more and more on public schools and television to provide sex education for their children. Children grow increasingly reluctant to take the consequences of their actions. A wise health official overestimates the sensitivity of the American citizenry by stating that these social problems work in tandem to provide “health statistics that will burden people’s hearts and fester people’s minds.” The health statistics to which he alludes concern the actions of promiscuous teenagers and the consequences of their actions. Over 50 percent of teenagers have had intercourse by the time they are 17. A third of those sexually active use contraceptives. Every week in Chicago, more than 130 teenage girls, many of whom are as young as 12, receive birth-control pills from Chicago’s three health clinics that cater to the desires of adolescents. In Boston in 1983, thirteen percent of all births were to teenagers. Americans happy after hearing that their nation’s teenage-pregnancy rate has remained steady over the last few years (108 out of 1000 teenage females become pregnant) become sober after learning that their nation’s teenage-pregnancy rate is the highest in the Western world. Teenage mothers figure significantly in America’s infant-mortality rate: 10.8 births out of every 1000 live births. By the time she is 20, one out of every three teenage mothers will have delivered another child, or will have aborted what some pro-abortionists would call “another meaningless life.” One-third of all abortions performed annually are performed on teenagers. Health journals distance the receivers of statistics from the creators of statistics. However, for many receivers of statistics, this distance becomes uncomfortably short when health officials explain that discussing sexuality with teenage males is a rude introduction to the “me generation.” Clive McKay, an eighteen-year-old, emphasizes the importance of spontaneity in life, humor, sex. Surprisingly, many of his friends laugh as he explains that the

50/50

I read with interest the articles by the Davids Williams and Petranick in the April 15 issue of The Davidsonian. Both discussed the issue of the male/female ratio at Davidson and some possible reasons for retaining or changing it. Dean Williams, in his interview with David Williams, states that he is against quotas such as the 60/40 male/female ratio imposed by Davidson’s Board of Trustees. Petranick, in his article, points out that the ratio essentially matches the ratio of male to female applicants Davidson has each year. The question I'd like answered is this: Is the male applicant pool as well-qualified for admission as the female applicant pool is? I have a sneaking suspicion that though there are fewer women applicants, they are generally better qualified than the male applicants. Thus, the male/female ratio could be made 50/50 simply by accepting more ofTeenage female asks too much of the teenage male when she asks him to interrupt the spontaneity of sex to put on a condom. “Besides,” he says sourly, “condoms aren’t comfy.” Another teenage male exhibits the same philosophical bent when he recites to a health official what he recites to each of his girlfriends, each of whom he calls his client: “You take the Pill, you take the risk. If you don’t want to have a baby, you have an abortion.” At a Teen Fathers Program in Chicago, Charles Ballard asked 15 teenage males participating in the program to raise their hands if they were fathers. Ballard counted two hands. Then, Ballard asked the 15 teenage males to raise their hands if they had babies — those dispensable critters equipped with built-in noisemakers. He counted fifteen hands. Many health officials reveal that speaking with teenage females about sexuality is a lesson in unconventional birth-control techniques. (The reader might want to relax in a recliner before he reads on. What I am about to convey is true.) Teenage females have conveyed to health officials such ideas as these: A woman cannot become pregnant after having intercourse for the first time; a woman cannot become pregnant if she has intercourse standing up; and a woman cannot become pregnant if she kisses her partner during intercourse. A young female attending Clintondale High School in Michigan claims a woman will “never become pregnant as long as she wears high-heeled shoes” during intercourse. This has led some folks to speculate that maybe platform shoes — fashionable among teenagers in the 1970s, fashionably taboo among teenagers in the 1980s — have had something to do with the high rate of teenage pregnancy in this decade.

Parents of students in public schools must realize that sex-education teachers, no matter how dedicated, cannot serve sufficiently as surrogate parents for classes whose average enrollment is 25 students. Sex-education teachers have their own children to worry about. Recently, a sex-education teacher in a high school in Washington, D.C., was asked what message he and his colleagues strive to get across to teenage students. He replied, “We tell the kids the best kind of safe intercourse is abstinence.” That’s like saying “the best kind of colleagues promote the pamphlet ‘Make Life Better for Yourself,’ whose authors list 10 reasons why teenagers should wait until they are married to enjoy intercourse. I mention the four reasons that caught my attention and provide what I believe might be the average teenage couple’s responses to these four reasons. Reason one: “You really don’t want to have intercourse.” Teenage couple: Oh yes we do! Reason two: “You’re not ready.” Teenage couple: That’s not what our rumbling bodies tell us. Reason three: “You want to wait until you’re in love or married.” Teenage couple: Heck, we are in love now. We do not need to be married to be in love. Reason four: “You’re not using contraceptives.” Teenage female: Oooops. But, I was wearing high-heeled shoes, and we were kissing. Teenage male: It’s her problem. The authors of “Make a Life for Yourself” substitute shaky proclamations for lessons regarding the virtues that help hold a society together: self-control, ethics, concern for community, and responsibility. Such lessons, I woefully admit, would be less interesting than valuable for teenagers whose attention spans last as long as Pepsi commercials. Parents also must realize that most television networks are profit-seeking corporations that recklessly exploit, among other things, human sexuality. Many actors in TV sitcoms approach sex with chilly casualness. Fay Wattleton, president of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, reports, “They [actors] did it 20,000 times on television last year. Nobody got pregnant.” She asks: When J.R. and Mandy appeared as rolling rabbits “in the barnyard, which one had the condom?” Starting this spring, parents ought to devote less time to leisure and more time to applying their sensibilities to the vital virtues of today’s child and the future American society — the latter being only as strong as the former.

Has anyone noticed the vast problem of eating disorders? This is an extremely serious problem at Davidson, yet the administration willingly chooses to ignore it for fear that the acknowledgment of the problem might hurt the school's image. I am in no way claiming that the administration is directly responsible for these problems, yet by not doing anything about them they are making themselves indirectly responsible. For many of us, college represents the last phase of our lives during which we can have some control over the environment we live in. We do have some control and it should be utilized. Our tuition entitles us to more than just time in the classroom. It entitles us to an education, and our campus life is part of that education. Since the students are the ones who are most often affected by the administration’s decisions, then isn’t it logical that the students would know best what needs to be done? I am not advocating that the students take over the running of the school. Rather, I am simply asking that you come to us with decisions that ultimately affect us. Try treating us like adults — we may surprise you.

Elizabeth Keenan is a junior from Haddonfield, NJ.

Last week I was distracted from my scholarly pursuits by a libelous, scandalous, nay even scurrilous advertisement, abusing the name of Her Majesty (God save the Queen) and her consorts in a futile attempt to sell sausages. I fear I must request, no, demand a written retraction of this slanderous document — and a free year’s supply of Pike Dogs personally delivered by the Captain to soothe my wounded pride.

Yours in outrage,

Frank S. Albinder