Friday, November 6, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Soccer on two-week roller coaster ride; beats Marshall, The Citadel
By WHIT WILKS

The Cats have been on a roller-coaster ride for the past two weeks as they concluded the 1987 soccer season.
Between a victory at Marshall and a home win over the Citadel came three painful losses to UNC-Wilmington, Furman, and
Wisconsin-Milwaukee.

At Marshall, Mike Friedlander continued his assault on the Southern Conference scoring title as he tallied both goals in the
2-0 win. Jim Kelly recorded the shutout for Davidson there.

Next came a Sunday afternoon contest against the UNC-Wilmington Seahawks. Both squads had ample opportunities to win in regulation time,
but neither could score as the teams finished tied at 0-0. In the first overtime period, UNC-W scored on an
indirect kick to break the drought. In the second session, the Seahawks took advantage of a defensive miscue to score
their second goal in the 2-0 win.

On October 28, the Cats traveled to Furman to play for the Conference Championships as both teams entered the contest
unbeaten in conference play. The Paladins were leading 1-0 in the second half when a scuffle broke out in front
of the Cats’ goal. The result of the altercation was a red card for the Furman player which gave the
Wildcats the man-up advantage for the last fifteen minutes of play. Davidson wasted no time as Friedlander scored on a
brilliant goal to even the match. With this momentum, a win seemed imminent. Victory slipped away, though, when Furman scored
on a high cross that eluded Kelly and a Paladin jammed into the goal. Kelly was hauled down on the
play but mysteriously no foul was called and the goal was awarded. The Cats were unable to move into scoring
position for the rest of the match, and so the Paladins captured their second straight S.C. title. Coach Charles Slagle
commented that, “in games of that nature, breaks will happen. Unfortunate things worked out as they did.”

By Saturday, the team seemed to have fully shaken off all effects of Wednesday’s loss. Tracy Hankins created this initial
impression by scoring only forty seconds into the match. The Cats controlled the action throughout the half and recorded their
second goal with another score by Hankins from directly in front of the cage. Wisconsin finally came alive just moments
before the break and scored to cut the lead in half. This score was just a preview of the onslaught
which followed in the first twelve minutes of the second session, as the Cats surrendered three quick goals much to
the amazement of the large Parents’ Day crowd. Davidson finally got back on track and had several opportunities but couldn’t
beat the “inspired” Wisconsin goalie. Slagle noted that, “at this time of the year, we have trouble playing well for
90 minutes. The normal wear and tear on the team was made worse by injuries to key players, notably Bruce
Nofsinger and Hankins, who sat out the entire second half.”

On Wednesday, Davidson rebounded with a conference win scored in the first half. The Cats held on for the 3-0
victory. Slagle commented that “Davidson was enough of a superior team that they [Citadel] could not score even though we
let down.” The team concludes the season tomorrow when Ap State comes to town. The Mountaineers and the Cats always
play tough matches, and Slagle predicts that this one will not be an exception. Tomorrow’s game will be the last
game for all of the seniors, so head on out to the field and let the players know that you
appreciate their efforts.

Senior Steve Omli moves the ball (with his head).

Pro Baseball: Position-by-position All Star players
By ANTHONY MCCARRON

After an outstanding year from many of baseball’s top players, the post-season is the time to acknowledge them for their
tremendous efforts. Thus, presented here are my picks for the overall year’s All-Star team as well as a few other
awards.

First, the Senior Circuit.

Outfield: This is a tough category because of the outstanding outfield talent in the National League. Strawberry, Raines, and Willie
McGee are among those that received serious consideration. Men like Tony Gwynn, Andre Dawson, and Eric Davis had THE years
in the NL, though, and they round out the All-Star outfield.

First Base: This, too, is a tough call to make between the Clark boys. Even though in this same column
I once lauded Jack Clark for NL MVP, I am going to jump camps to San Francisco’s Will Clark. He
helped the Giants look tough all year and also put up some impressive numbers. Jack had a great year, too,
but in September the Cards proved they could win without him. I doubt San Francisco could have gone as far
as they did without their Clark. Will Clark is the All-Star first baseman.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the
original meaning and punctuation:

---

Second Base: Who else but Juan Samuel? He bashed 28 home runs, knocked in 100 runs, and led the league
in triples. He is a fine young player who is only going to get better.

Shortstop: The Wizard, the Blizzard, the King of OZ. Great year at the plate (.300), poetry in motion in the
field, and runs like the wind. The Backbone of the NL champs.

Third Base: Mike Schmidt of the Phils. The consummate pro. What else can you say? Year after year he is
there. 35 homers and 113 RBIs give him the nod over 30-30 club member Howard Johnson of the Mets.

Catcher: A fresh face easily beats out an old fossil like Gary Carter and a disappointing free agent like Lance
Parrish. Benito Santiago of the San Diego Padres is the All-Star catcher by virtue of his excellent rookie year and
his fantastic hitting streak.

Right-Handed Pitcher: No doubt a dreadful year for pitching. Names like Gooden, Hershiser, and Valenzuela are absent from every list
and the only dominant pitchers had to be waved in from the past. The PREP goes to Rick Sutcliffe because
of his 18 wins. After his '84 Cy Young Award, he disappeared into oblivion, but now he’s alerted National League
hitters that he is back. Look for even better things out of him next year.

Left-Handed Pitcher: Zane Smith was impressive, but John Tudor reserved a spot for himself on this team with an excellent
stretch performance. He would not let a weakening Cardinal team sag, and the Cardinals wound up in the 7th Game
for the second time in three years. Tudor was 10-2 and murderous (especially on lefties) down the Cardinals pennant run.

Relief Pitcher: Bedrock. 40 saves in 65 appearances for the Phillies. I can’t even imagine the elation Phillies management feels
when they see Bedrosian stride from the pen to slam the door on some unsuspecting rally. He is truly awesome.

The American League

Outfield: George Bell was a destructive force, Kirby Puckett, a supreme all-around ball player, they are the easy selections. The
surprise has got to be Danny Tartabull of Kansas City. This power-packed outfielder had 34 dongs, drove in 101 teammates,
and swung the stick to the tune of .309. This lands him the third spot on the AL outfield.

First Base: McGwire had a great year, Joyner is a top-notch ballplayer, but you can’t deny Don Mattingly. An off-year
(for super-human Mattingly) still netted some impressive numbers. He is the class player of the junior circuit.

Second Base: Willie Randolph. Although hampered by injuries, this steady player turned in one of his best years. He hit
.305 and helped to glue King Georgie’s court, er, infield together.

Shortstop: The “Tram.” Batted .345 for the year, not to mention well over .400 in September when the chips were
down. Trammell was second in the league in hits and also drove in 105 runs. A stellar fielder and team
leader.

Third Base: A very tough category. Kevin Seitzer and Paul Molitor were outstanding, but Wade Boggs is it. Along with
pasting the ball at a .363 clip, he added power to his game with 24 homers and 89 RBIs.

Catcher: The Tigers did not lose much when Lance Parrish went the free agent route. Matt Nokes stepped in and
walloped 32 round-trippers as well as batting at a steady .289 clip.

Right-Handed Pitcher: Roger Clemens started off slowly, but came on with a vengeance. He seems a cinch to pick up
his second consecutive Cy Young with a 20-9, 2.97, 256 SO year.

Left-Handed Pitcher: Jimmy Key of Toronto and Frank Viola of the Twins make this a tough decision, but Viola clinches
it with his MVP performance in the World Series. The Twins needed an ace in the hole, and he was
there for Game 7.

Relief Pitcher: Toronto’s Tom Henke barely beats out Minnesota’s Jeff Reardon. 34 saves and a lot of intimidation from the
bullpen.

Now, for some special awards. The Mr. Out-Of-Nowhere Award goes to Tom Lawless of the Cards for that back-breaking Series
homer. Buck Rodgers gets Manager of the Year. Tim Raines gets the Spring Training Boy Scout Badge. Tim Wallach of
the Expos gets the nod for Surprise of the Year. Davey Johnson gets the Timing Award for 1987 for going
public with his contract problems just as his club, the Mets, were trying to catch the Cards in the last
week of the season. Congrats, Dave.

Finally, His Majesty George Steinbrenner gets my vote for both Employer of the Year and Executive of the Year, on
the strength of his comment that he was not happy about hiring Piniella as manager because of his lack of
managerial experience. Not to worry, the King himself rectified that situation by making Piniella his General Manager, a job in
which he has no experience, either.
