18

Friday, May 8, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cats baseball just misses NCAA post-season play

By MATT NEWSOM

The 1987 Wildcat baseball team tied the all-time record for wins in a season last Thursday as they beat UNCC in the first game of a three-game series with the 49ers. However, win number twenty-five eluded the Cats as they dropped the next three games, two heart-breakers to UNCC and a tough loss to Georgia.

Last Thursday’s game pitted Davidson versus cross-town rival UNCC at Crockett Park, the home of the Charlotte O’s minor league team. Senior Steve Condon pitched perhaps his best game of the year scattering eight hits and striking out twelve; many of the 49er batters never even saw his fastball. Davidson’s bats were alive as Wildcat batters collected eleven runs on fifteen hits, of which six were doubles and two were homers. Catcher Dan Simonds and first baseman Mark Thompson each reached the Crockett Park fences; Simonds hit a solo blast in the fourth inning, while Thompson launched a two-run rocket in the fifth. Sophomore second baseman Michael Holland collected his first hit as a Wildcat, a two-run double in the fourth which ignited the Cats. The combination of the Cats’ bats in action and Condon’s wizardry on the mound proved to be too much for UNCC as Davidson won 11-4.

The DC-UNCC series continued on Friday afternoon as the 49ers invaded Davidson and took a close 10-8 victory from the Cats. Holland and Brian Moure each hit solo homers for two Wildcat runs. In the sixth inning Holland and Bill Masse hit back-to-back triples, Masse’s scoring Holland. Alan Lewis grounded out but picked up an RBI as Masse scored on the play. Moure and Simonds scored in a seventh-inning rally for Davidson, and as Jeff Loser relieved Dave Fitzgerald in the eighth inning, the score was knotted at eight. UNCC picked up two quick runs to take a slim lead. At this point the rains came, and the game was called in the top of the eighth with UNCC leading 10-8.

Once again, rain proved to be Davidson’s greatest enemy on Sunday as the 49ers came away with a 2-1 victory in a rain-shortened game at UNCC. Greg Wilcox lost a heart-breaker as he yielded only two runs on four hits and struck out nine in eight innings of action. The Cats reached UNCC pitching for eight hits but could only muster one run. Davidson’s only run came in the fifth inning when designated hitter Rob Zimmerman doubled and scored on Dave Turgeon’s single.

Wednesday night the Cats traveled to Bulldog country where they played eighth-ranked Georgia. Lewis and Turgeon hit dingers, and the score was tied after three innings. Then Georgia brought in Derek Lillequist followed by Cris Carpenter, two of the top college pitching prospects in the country, and they proceeded to shut out Davidson the rest of the way. Condon, Fitzgerald, and Billy Waitsman combined on the pitching effort for Davidson.

Davidson will close out their season this weekend as they play NC State this afternoon at UNCC at 3 pm, host Southern Mississippi on Saturday at 3 pm, and host perennial probation powerhouse Memphis State on Sunday at 3 pm in the season finale.

For the Record Book:
Michael Holland found UNCC pitching to his liking as he had two singles, a double, a triple, and a home run in the series. . . . Senior Dave DePaul leads the club in game-winning RBIs with six. . . . Seniors Dave Turgeon, Dan Simonds, Dave DePaul, Mark Thompson, Ollie Wagner, Billy Waitsman, and Steve Condon will suit up for the last time in Wildcat uniforms on Sunday. . . . Davidson is averaging 7 runs a game. . . . 37% of those runs have come in the fourth and fifth innings. . . .

Enjoy your summer vacation and when you return to Davidson come see us.
AND as a summer send-off, present this ad to us and receive a 20% Discount

Hours 9 am. till 5:30 pm. Mon. thru Sat.
DOWNTOWN MOORESVILLE.

“Let us be your connection to great Pizza!”

UNITED CAROLINA BANK

Downtown Davidson

MON—THURS. 9-5
Fri. 9-6

12 in. with 3 toppings $5.75
16 in. with 3 toppings $7.75
Mon. - Thurs. 11:00 am. - 10:00 pm.
Fri. and Sat. 11:00 am. - 11:00 pm.
Sunday 4:00 pm. - 11:00 pm.
892-9046 25% OFF any order of 3 or more large PIZZAS