Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Landy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
John Gathings, Editor Emeritus
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Jim Dillon, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Mark Chen, Features Editor
Lee Eichelberger, Inside Art Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Aiciriphs Editor
Karen Bockus, Susan Wilkins, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Brats

In the “Battle for the Hornet’s Nest” on Dec. 13, an unfortunate set of events occurred that hurt Davidson’s image
as a fine and upstanding center of learning. We do not mean the fact that Davidson lost the game; although
losing to UNCC in basketball is disappointing, Davidson’s team both played and conducted themselves with a great deal of class.
The performance of some of Davidson’s fans caused more long-term damage to Davidson’s image than any event since the “Megaphone
Game” against UT-Chattanooga two years ago. While most of Davidson’s fans screamed their lungs out in support of their team,
some fans were more intent on yelling obscenities at UNCC’s fans and venting their anger at losing by throwing trash
on the court.

We are not urging the fans to be either quiet or excessively polite: there is nothing wrong with fans being
loud. The volume of noise in Johnston Gym last season approached that of an airline taking off. Opposing coaches consistently
remarked how Davidson’s fans disrupted their team by being so loud. Additionally, these coaches remarked that they admired Davidson students
who were loud and supportive rather than rude. With all the national attention given to Duke’s fans’ use of verbal
and material abuse, every college with hoopaholics aims to one-up the Blue Devils’ “Circus.” Too often, however, this attempt to
be the rowdiest goes too far. Rudeness and tactlessness take precedence over cleverness and wit. The group of Davidson fans
that waved various gestures at the UNCC section and threw trash apparently ran out of intelligent cheers and resorted to
Visigothic tactics.

When Appalachian State comes to Johnston Gym next Saturday, we urge all Davidson students to come scream until hoarse. Leave
the trash in the dorms’ wastebaskets.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Friday, January 9, 1987

THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSON FANS WAVE TO SHOW THEIR END OF THE ARGUMENT.

Letters

Cloudt

To the Editors:

We write in response to Richard Cloudt’s editorial cartoon which appeared in the December 10, 1986 edition of The Davidsonian.
The cartoon depicted Dean of

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of
the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates.
Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, David Bearce, Betsy Bryan, Maria Douglas, Wendy Dunn, Laura Gabel, Penelope Hughes, Lucia Kendall, Aaron Levine,
Sarah Longely, Ed Matthews, Tom Moore, Ray Thornton, David Van Pelt, David

---Williams, Ted Wilson. Features Staff: Lee Eichelberger, Jessica Fisher, Scott Goodwin, Chris Hargrove, Steve Mank, Diana Miller. Sports Staff: Rick
Case, Boyd Coggins, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wilkins. Photography Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda Higbie, Penelope Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, Matt
Yaun. Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill. Production Staff: Beth Bryson, Kim Craig, Amelia Fox, Gates Grainger, Robert Grzeszczak, Pete
Mangone, Jamie McAden, Tom Moore, Ibby Sowell, Kathryn Strickland, Satah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yarbrough. Circulation Staff: Lucia Kendall.

Students Will Terry as the ultimate decision maker in the hall counselor selection process. Further, the cartoon implied that Dean
Terry was concerned that the incoming freshman advisors suit his purposes. The cartoonist shared the often heard opinion that the
hall counselor selection committee seeks candidates with particular social club affiliation. As members of last year’s selection committee, we would
like to take this opportunity to clarify the objectives of the selection committee, and the roles of both the Dean
of Student’s Office and the freshman advisors.

Great pains were taken to ensure that the selection committee was representative of the Davidson student body. Ten people sat
on last year’s committee, which included the Director of Housing, the Dean of Students, the two Associate Deans of Students,
three fraternity members, one student from an all-female eating house, one independent, and one freshman. The freshman advisors selected the
non-staff committee members due to their past experience with the hall counseling program and for the diversity they would bring
to the committee. Moreover, each committee member had access to the same information, had an equal input into the questions
asked in the interviews and the discussions afterward, and had an equal vote. Dean Terry had no more influence on
the selection process than any other member of the committee.

The cartoon also insinuated that priority was given to candidates with certain social affiliations. This is definitely not the case.
Every effort was made to ensure that each applicant was given equal consideration. For this reason, the selection process was
based solely upon the interview, the written application, and peer evaluations. Social affiliation was never a factor in selection.

Finally, the cartoon intimated that Dean Terry had a vested interest in the selection of the freshman advisors. Dean Terry
had absolutely no control over the selection of the freshman advisors. Any current hall counselor was eligible to run for
the position. The student body then selected from those that chose to run by means of an election. Inherent with
any selection process are various opinions as to why some are selected and why some are not selected. We strongly
believe that hall counselor selection is not contingent upon the particular social affiliation of the candidate or the candidate’s relationship
to Dean Terry. The candidate’s character, integrity, and ability to relate to others as revealed through the interview, the written
application, and the peer evaluations determine whether he is selected.

While interest in the hall counselor application process is encouraged and appreciated, we feel this particular cartoon misrepresented the facts.
Additionally, the message would have carried more weight if the cartoonist had used the word “counselor” rather than “counsilor.”

Brett Flinchum
Craig Carlock
