Administration embezzlement scam, The Davidsonian p. 13

College, John Deere to hold combined celebration
By MO ERR

Davidson is not the only well-known institution observing its sesquicentennial in 1987. Also founded in 1837 was Deere & Company,
makers of John Deere agricultural equipment. The college and Deere & Company plan a joint celebration, according to Sesquicentennial Coordinator
Rupert Barber.

Barber denied accusations that Deere forced the merger: “By no means were we bulldozed into this plan. Our office simply
concluded that sponsoring this event independently entailed a long row to hoe. When Deere combines with us, power equipment provides
just the spark our celebration needs.”

Activities include a tractor pull, set for Homecoming Weekend in the Charlotte Coliseum. “The only event that’s ever sold out
in that arena is a tractor pull,” Barber said. Stockholders and alumni will receive priority seating. Deere corporate officers and
college administrators will compete in the sport; contestants drive for the best two out of three pulls. Currently, the college
is conducting challenge matches to determine Davidson’s representatives. Barber said, “As in the America’s Cup trials, athletes must qualify by
demonstrating superior ability worthy of the institution they represent.”

The trial matches have unearthed such interest that officials are now discussing adding tractor-pulling to the P.E. curriculum. P.E. Director
Sterling Martin indicated plans to add tractor-pulling to the list of courses for which students receive credit. “It’s definitely a
lifetime sport,” he said.

According to Director of the Physical Plant and Facilities Planning Grover Meetze, Jr., the new sports complex plans can be
adjusted to permit installation of a 150-yard mud arena. “Of course, intramural tractor-pulling will not use the indoor arena; instead,
those teams will train on the acreage behind Akers, Irwin, and Knox dormitories,” he said.

Athletic Director Christopher B. “Kit” Morris confirmed reports that varsity tractor-pulling could mean Davidson will enter a new athletic conference.
Other colleges observing sesquicentennials in 1987, including Mount Holyoke and Guilford, have expressed interest in forming the Bush League.

Other departments than the Athletic Department have expressed interest in joining the sesquicentennial celebration since Deere’s addition. Religion Department Chairman
Samuel Maloney said, “Sow in righteousness, reap in mercy.” The department will host a spring lecture series featuring both theologians
and fertilizer experts entitled, “The Seeds That Fell on Rocky Ground.”

Academic courses offered during fall term 1987 will celebrate the college’s link to Deere & Company. Registrar Sue Ross said,
“So far, we’ve added a chemistry course, ‘Combines and Compounds,’ and renamed the Humanities program ‘Plowing through Plato.’” Vice President
for Academic Affairs, Dean of Faculty, and History Professor Robert Williams noted that the proposed semester calendar offers a three-week
vacation during harvest season.

The joint celebration opens frontiers for students interested in off-campus study in new fields. Coordinator of Study Abroad Homer Sutton
said, “We’re thrilled to expand our existing junior year abroad program to incorporate two new locales: JYA Moline, IL, and
JYA Dubuque, IA.”

Archivist Chalmers Davidson cited precedent for the celebration merger. Davidson said, “After combing the archives, I’ve discovered the 1837 equipment
budget, which indicates purchase of a backhoe.” Grounds SupervisorHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Irwin Brawley uncovered the backhoe itself beneath shovels in a groundskeeping shed; now encased in glass, the hoe will remain
on display throughout the celebration in the Davidsoniana Room. History department chairman Malcolm Lester said, “It’s no coincidence that the
founder of Deere & Company and Davidson’s current president share the same first name.” Barber acknowledged that his office modified
its original plans to incorporate Deere & Company’s sesquicentennial. “We've changed the publicity slightly,” he said. “Our logo no longer
reads, ‘Celebrating 150 Years.’ Instead, it says, ‘Celebrate and Excavate.’”

Two Johns — Kuykendall and Deere celebrate sesquicentennials

God gives May ultimatum

By MAY B. EWILL

In a shocking announcement yesterday, Davidson College Director of Alumni Relations Jamie May told a group of stunned reporters and
college personnel that unless the Alumni Fund received donations of $4.5 million before the end of March, God, through his
agents the Davidson College Board of Trustees, would “strike me down.”

“I have given all I have to Davidson,” May said, “but apparently it just isn’t enough.” May refused to divulge
how he received word of this threat to his life, saying only that it was “a higher power than John
Kuykendall.” The Davidphonian has learned, however, that Trustee Howard Covington delivered the message to May. In an exclusive interview with
The Davidphonian, Covington explained how May’s “quest” is “a solution sent from God to provide the money needed to expand
my golf course to nine holes.”

Covington explains: “We had been knocking our heads for a long time when suddenly tongues of fire swept through the
Board meeting. After a while, the flames went away. Suddenly we were all enlightened: let’s pass the buck to Jamie.”

As word spread across campus of the grim task appointed to May, reactions were mixed. President Kuykendall, visibly moved at
the press conference, said, “I’ve always thought Jamie was a stand-up guy. I’m going to do all I can to
help him succeed. In fact, I’ve already made out a check for $20.” Director of Development Julius Melton said, “Since
we’ve practically milked the alumni dry with this Project ’87 stuff, I simply don’t see how Jamie can pull it
off. Thank God they didn’t give me the task, or maybe I should say thank Ralph Holt.”

Board of Trustees Chairman Ben Craig said, “I’ve always had a lot of respect for Jamie. Whenever he has a
problem with something like loud-mouthed students, he always comes to us. I think God gave Jamie the task because if
Jamie can’t get money outta someone, no one can.” None of the Trustees would comment on their new role as
spokesmen for God. Some did reportedly attend a recent taping of the PTL club.

When asked whether he thought he could succeed in his new task, May said, “It doesn’t really matter whether or
not I raise the money as long as I raise the public consciousness of the need for more holes on
the golf course. I love Davidson and I don’t mind being a martyr in this cause.”

Page 3.5

Alex Haywire
