Friday, November 6, 1987  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Keith Finch, Mark Chen, Editors  
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor  
Jon Boles, Tom Moore, Associate Editors  
John Barrow, News Editor  
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors  
Jim Dillon, Inside Art Editor  
Suzanne Craymer, Jennifer Hoffman, Features Editors  
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager  
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus

Forget

In case you haven’t heard, U.S. News and World Report recently declared that Davidson was the 15th best liberal arts institution in the nation. According to the magazine’s biennial “America’s Best Colleges” survey of college presidents, printed in the October 26 issue, 20.9 percent of the responding presidents said that Davidson’s degree was one of the ten best in the United States.

But before you tell all your high school buddies that you go to the “fifteenth best college in the nation,” remember that U.S. News publishes its surveys once every two years. It may seem incredible, but somehow even the “best” colleges can drop into the depths of mediocrity and obscurity in just twenty-four short months. At least according to U.S. News.

For example: four years ago, when U.S. News published its first list of the “best colleges,” Davidson was ranked ninth. The college community congratulated itself that Davidson’s excellence had been nationally recognized, and the magic figure “nine” found its way into admissions literature, campus conversation, and the student mindset. It’s a shame this situation didn’t last. When the second U.S. News survey was released two years later, in 1985, Davidson didn’t appear at all. Williams, Swarthmore, and Amherst were all still up there at the top of the list, but Davidson had fared so poorly that it wasn’t even ranked. Suddenly the voices that had extolled the U.S. News survey fell silent. Students pondered Davidson’s fall from grace: what had happened? How had we screwed up? Had the erosion of self-selection tarnished our national image? Did those thefts from the Union in early ’85 ruin our reputation? Perhaps the American academic community didn’t like the women’s golf team...

Well, here we are; “back on the charts,” just like the latest Madonna single. Perhaps we shouldn’t make such a big deal of it this time. For one thing, it could lead to considerable embarrassment if we ever dropped off the list again. More importantly, though, we must seriously question the legitimacy of any survey which purports to quantify Davidson’s excellence. Why, after all, would anybody try to “rank” the nation’s top colleges?

President of Middlebury College Olin C. Robison has an answer. For some time now he’s led a crusade against the U.S. News survey because he feels that it provides a disservice to potential applicants and to the public. A recent issue of The Chronicle of Higher Education quoted him as saying, “This is an effort to sell magazines. That’s the bottom line.” He’s right. The 1985 “Best Colleges” issue sold 60 percent above the usual newsstand figure, according to U.S. News public relations officials. And why shouldn’t it? It serves as an absolute guide to institutional excellence, because numbers can’t lie. It lets Daddy ask Junior, “Say, son, have you thought about Carleton? They’re Number Three. Forget about Davidson, they’re only Number Fifteen.” The U.S. News survey makes tough decisions easy. Too easy, in fact. For it attempts to quantify qualities which are impossible to measure.

Never mind that U.S. News is simply trying to sell magazines. Forget that the survey’s questionnaire is, as Amherst president Peter Pouncey put it, “farcical, [because] it sets out at best to rank institutions qualitatively on no more than hearsay and with vested interest very much a part of the system of choice.” Recognize instead that it’s simply ridiculous to try to “rank” colleges. U.S. News might just as well have tried to rank the Greatest Books of All Time, or the Greatest Paintings of the Western World, or the Best American Fast Food Hamburgers. One can recognize excellence, one can praise quality, but neither can be quantified. What U.S. News has done instead is to attach numbers to institutions and then watch high school seniors scramble for admission to the “best” colleges. In a world full of SATs, GPAs, GREs, LSATs, and MCATs, we certainly don’t need any more attempts to turn people and ideas into numbers. Unfortunately, easy-to-understand numbers and graphs sell lots of magazines.

We know Davidson is great, and we don’t need U.S. News and World Report to tell us about it. If our “ranking” brings in top-quality students, that’s fine. If it brings in more money, that’s dandy. Beyond these immediate benefits, let’s ignore all the surveys, rankings, and numbers, and concentrate instead on fulfilling the excellence of the Davidson experience.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Our beautiful “Ivory Tower” offices are located on the top floor of the...Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first-class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Margaret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Muadi Mukenge, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall, Katherine Price, Walt Reynolds, Robert Smalley, Toby Truog.

Features Staff: Ash Ahsanuddin, Russell Booker, Glenn Fogle, Tim Jacks, Frank Lord, Muadi Mukenge, Carey Pickard, Bill Scouten.

Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Ken Bogert, Caroline Cicero, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, Anthony McCarron, Kathryn Mitchen, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell.

Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation, Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts.

Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn.

Production Staff: Helen Bowman, Robert Coggins, David Dillon, Christian Harberts, Helen Hull, Se-Hoon Oh, Bowe Strickland, Susan Majors.

Circulation Staff: Caroline Buxton, Jennings Craig, Laura Dodenhoff, Tim Jacks, Ingrid Love.

Cultural Consultant: Lee Eichelberger.

John Wightman, Business Manager
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfman, Production Editor

ALL IT NEEDS IS A KEG.

Glass

To the Editors,

Recently a problem has developed concerning the use of the flickerball fields. Students have been bringing up glass containers and leaving them on the fields. When the fields are mowed, the bottles are broken and scattered, leaving dangerous shards of glass just waiting to puncture someone's bare feet. In fact, on Monday, October 19, a Davidson student cut his hand on the broken remains of a Gatorade bottle. Stitches were required, but the injury could have easily been much worse. The members of the Intramural Athletic Council strongly urge everyone who uses these fields (including club football, club soccer, and flickerball players) to please avoid bringing up glass containers. With everyone’s cooperation, the problem can be easily resolved.

Jim Earle

Sports

To the Editors,

At last count, there were 6 fall sports. You couldn’t tell that from the Sports pages of the last Davidsonian. I think that you guys need to do a better job of covering Davidson sports. There were two articles in the Sports section that had nothing to do with sports at Davidson. If someone wants to read about college basketball picks, let ‘em go pick up a copy of The Sporting News or USA Today. I think that you need to re-examine your editorial mission which is to report on happenings around Davidson. To be specific, I haven’t seen an article about volleyball in several weeks. That upsets me because within the span of those weeks, we’ve won three games. I think reporting on other events besides Davidson sports is fine as long as there is space left over for it.

If your problem is a lack of capable reporters, I think it’s your job as editors to find people who are able and willing to dig in and do their job. Come on, group, get with the program.

Maria Douglas
Captain, Davidson volleyball team

Fair Guide?

To the Editors:

This letter is in response to Moreland Hogan’s book, On Foot in Davidson: A Walking Guide to Campus and Town. It is sold in various local stores, and for many visitors and tourists, it serves as their first contact with Davidson. We respect Dr. Hogan’s highly opinionated and often negative viewpoint; admittedly, the book would be boring if it consisted strictly of facts and praise. However, we resent his misrepresentation of student opinion. After condemning the design of the Vail Commons, Hogan writes, “Students, however, are concerned with food, not architecture, and they grudgingly give the Commons good marks.” We question Dr. Hogan’s authority in expressing our opinion as students. The majority of people we have spoken with admire the Commons as a well-built and beautiful building. It stands out as one of the highlights on the tour given for prospective students.

Architecture is a form of art, and therefore, is obviously subject to personal opinion. What Moreland Hogan views as “six pairs of stunted fat columns,” we see as examples of the brilliant unity in design between the front and back of the building, grand columns which foreshadow the grand structure and view achieved in back. We write, not to condemn Dr. Hogan’s view, but rather to clarify it as his opinion alone, and not the entire student body’s. We hope that visitors to Davidson will venture on campus to form opinions of their own.

Suzanne Craymer
Jennifer Hoffman