Friday, December 11, 1987

THE DAVIDSONIAN ELECTION '87

This Tuesday, the SGA will be holding elections for Union officers, YSSC officers, freshman advisors, defense advisors, student solicitors, and The Davidsonian’s editor. Several candidates have submitted campaign statements:

Editor The Davidsonian

Maria Douglas

My name is Maria Douglas. I am a junior English major from Charleston, SC, and I want to be editor of the Davidsonian. My journalistic experience so far has covered quite a bit of territory. For the past two years, I have been a staff reporter for the Davidsonian in the news department. To supplement my experience here, I externed at the Charlotte Leader for a short time before moving on to the Observer for an internship spring term last year. I mainly wrote what are called “headed obits,” stories that recounted the life of a deceased person. I also wrote several features, dealing mainly with school-aged children. That internship helped strengthen my reporting skills. My editing skills also improved because I was forced to edit my own work, getting it as close to perfection as I could before my editor got a crack at it. Last summer, I worked as an editorial assistant of Cash Flow, a national trade magazine for treasurers and chief financial officers. I wrote copy, as well as proofed, edited, and laid out two departments and some articles. I also wrote a feature article. My plans are to continue my experience with a magazine or newspaper this summer. Those three experiences provided me a solid foundation on which to build a journalism career. I would like to use what I have learned and continue that building as editor of the Davidsonian.

The Davidsonian is a relatively good paper, but I believe more could be done with it. The newspaper plays an important role in the college community. The role would be fulfilled more efficiently if the caliber of the paper were improved. Because I feel the college newspaper serves as a training ground for the budding journalist, it should come as close as it can to providing that type of experience. I also think we owe it to the rest of the community to display our best reporting skills. That is one of my goals. Another of my aims is to bring a new perspective to the paper. I think the paper needs some changes made. I would like to see an even greater emphasis placed on Davidson and the events that affect it. Another goal is to see more students involved with the paper. I think the more students working to make this the best paper possible, the greater the chance we have at achieving our goal. And “our” newspaper is what I hope it will grow into as more students become involved and the campus becomes interested.

Finally, I would like to state my editorial mission or objectives. As editor of the Davidsonian, my mission will be to provide information as well as entertainment to the Davidson community through hard work and dedication. My experience and sincere interest make me qualified to serve in this capacity.

Tom Moore

The Editor of The Davidsonian must be an individual who not only has a general idea of what journalism is all about but also must be completely familiar with the particulars of Davidson's newspaper. Familiarity with the budget, the paper’s production schedules, and the publishing software we use is essential to the editor’s ability to do the job. I am the candidate best acquainted with these particulars. Together with current Editor Keith Finch and co-Associate Editor Jon Boles, I make editorial, policy, and personnel decisions. For example, The Davidsonian was fortunate this year to be able to move away from its antiquated typesetting equipment and toward the future: we purchased a desktop publishing system with a laser printer. I was integral to the new system’s purchase, and as Associate Editor, I electronically compose the entire paper every week. After spending countless hours working with the software and sitting in front of the screen into the wee hours of many mornings, I feel I know the program and process thoroughly.

As Features Editor, the position I held Spring Term last year, I was responsible for assigning and editing all features copy. This was a good extension of my high school experience, in which I have droves of people writing for its newspaper. My goal is not to get half the campus involved with the paper’s production but rather to cultivate a strong group of editors who are willing to work with the technology and the writers. Students are too busy as a group for one more extracurricular, and besides, there would be no one left to read the paper! I know the school, the technique, the equipment, and the staff. In short, I’ve put in the necessary time: writing, editing, publishing, and living and breathing this newspaper. Cast your ballot Tuesday! To quote Al Capone: “Vote early and vote often.”

Freshman Advisors

Jay Barron: Hall Counselor on 3rd Little, Spanish major.
Beth Anderson: Hall Counselor on 4th Rich, Religion major, Rusk

We are Jay Barron and Beth Anderson, and we are running for the position of Freshman Advisors. We feel that Hall Counselors play a vital role in the Davidson community, and we are excited about the possibility of being involved in the selection process. We would do our best to help select the new Hall Counselors fairly and to help prepare them for their position. We hope to work closely with the Hall Counselor applicants, the selected Hall Counselors, and the Freshman class of ’92 and would appreciate your vote.

Mike Cowan
Eileen Keeley

Strong qualifications and high standards are essential for the positions of freshman advisors. Of course, all the candidates exhibit these necessary requirements--they are all hall counselors, solid students, and they are all visible on campus. These accomplishments, however, only begin to describe what is needed to make good freshman advisors. You should vote for the Mike Cowan/Eileen Keeley team because our combined qualities yield efficient and exciting results. In addition to being reliable, we have the energy to motivate those around us. Our ideas supported by our efforts produce solid results. Our energy encourages others to utilize their attributes to the best of their ability. Steady, reliable freshman advisors will do the work, but our added enthusiasm will help make the job fun and worthwhile for all those involved. Please support Mike and Eileen for the most effective freshman advisors.

Joe B. Martin
Kim White

Having a diverse yet united group of hall counselors is very important. The freshman advisors play a vital role in this. From our experience during the retreat last March and pre-orientation, we have seen how effective two energetic and devoted freshman advisors can be. The entire process of hall counselor selection and training is hard work because the hall counselors have such a major influence on the incoming freshmen. The freshman hall experience at Davidson is designed to help the freshmen adjust to college, get to know each other, and realize the importance of their contribution to the Davidson College community. We'd like to emphasize a more active and direct relationship between the freshman advisors and the freshmen as this would greatly enhance not only the positions of freshman advisor and hall counselor but the freshman experience as a whole.

Charlie Winn
Barbara Matheny

Oh no, not another set of elections! Not during these three weeks! Unfortunately, yes. In a couple of days,You will have the opportunity to vote for various members of the student body who are running for a variety of campus offices. One important office you will vote for will be that of the Freshman Advisor, and that is the purpose of this article. We’re Charlie Winn and Barbara Matheny, and together we are running for Freshman Advisors. The accomplishments of previous Freshman Advisors have sparked new ideas in us. We have definite ideas about possible discussions, programs, and general information that could benefit the present Hall Counselor training period and freshman orientation. Furthermore, we feel that Freshman Advisors can work more throughout the entire academic year with the freshmen as well as the Hall Counselors, acting as a valuable aid in providing greater communication between the freshmen (as well as Hall Counselors) and other campus organizations, such as the Student Union, SGA, and YSSC. 

All right, that’s enough from us for now. The rest is up to you. The only thing left to say is that we both have wanted to do this for some time, we are good friends, and we really believe that we can do a great job. If there is anything else you want to know about the job or the elections, just ask one of us, Charlie Winn and Barbara Matheny, when you see us around campus. So, regardless of who you vote for on Tuesday, December 15, please do stop by the lobby of Chambers and VOTE!

Union President Diana Titus-Allen

How can I compact in one newspaper article all the enthusiasm, qualifications, and excitement which I offer in my bid for the office of College Union President? The standard lines come easy. I’m Diana Titus-Allen from Alexandria, Virginia, and I transferred to Davidson in the Winter of 1985. My friends often tease me because “I’m so excited” about what I am involved in; they know my dedication and zeal for the spirit of the Union is genuine and runs deep. The spirit of the Union is seen in choosing to relax over an exam break sundae, enjoying the Freshman Talent Show or the Dating Game, benefitting from a Latin American lecturer, or becoming spooked by Edgar Allan Poe. The Union offers pool games and video games, student art exhibits, free munchies, and the frequent ultimate extravaganza...a Union video. The abundance of activities and energy in these events is the creative effort and desire by the chairpersons and their committee members to make the Union special and appealing for everyone. It takes a great deal of commitment, but the rewards are well worth the time.

I am currently Chairperson of the Campus Forum Committee and schedule the Open Luncheon weekly speakers and prepare the publicity and the buffet menu. Through my involvement, I have directed events each week for the past two years. This has enhanced and strengthened my relationships with the Union staff and my knowledge of the vast Union resources and contacts. I was also elected by the Union Board to serve on the Policy Committee, which forms guidelines dealing with procedures for the entire Union. My experience has taught me to calmly and efficiently deal with dinners for 300, to pull off a widely advertised baked potato bar at 12:30 with raw spuds at 12:20, to create a rafting photo display in record time, and to remain stubborn in my devotion to the Union and its vital place on this campus. I want to continue to help in creating opportunities for you to enjoy the special, stressful, and crazy times in the Union. Cast your vote on Tuesday. I am excited about doing a great job and going the extra distance to make the Union spirit contagious and appealing.

Sarah Whitesides

To convince you to vote “Sarah Whitesides for Union President,” I need to explain what I see as the President's duties and how I see myself fulfilling them. The President of the Union and the two Vice Presidents interview and select the Union Board. Working with the Board, the job of the president entails organizing, motivating, and supporting the individuals on the Board so they can work as one mutually encouraging group.

I have had experience on a smaller scale exercising these same skills as co-chairman of the 900 Room Committee. Our committee has organized diverse functions ranging from Monday Night Football to Friday Afternoon Clubs, and including the new Tuesday Morning Coffeehouse. My enthusiasm and energy enabled me to encourage creativity and to follow through on others’ ideas, as well as my own. Bringing in new ideas and having the drive to see them through will make me an effective Union President. Living with freshmen as a hall counselor, I have been reacquainted with fresh ideas and positive attitudes and realize the importance of encouraging freshman participation. As Union President, I hope to make the Union an attractive alternative for the freshmen and involve them actively in the Union through the Freshmen Advisory Council.

As a candidate, I would like to encourage you to take an active role in your selection. Please don’t hesitate to talk to me about the President's role, or to ask me any questions about the Board. Please support Sarah Whitesides for the experienced, enthusiastic, and energetic Union President.