Volume LXXVIII Number 2

Students speak out on laundry fee, p. 3

The Davidsonian

Friday, September 25, 1987

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

College increases student laundry fee

After years of deficits,

By FRANK FOLGER and WALT REYNOLDS

Concern has been raised again this year over Davidson’s mandatory laundry service which has once again increased its yearly fee,
this time to $310. SGA President Conrad Doenges indicated that he has received student input about the current laundry service
provided by the college and in particular about the cost increase of the mandatory fee for laundry service. According to
Doenges, who raised the issue during a meeting with college president Kuykendall on Monday, it is “a policy of the
school that things like tuition, the room fee, and laundry fee are mandatory.”

According to Comptroller Robert Davidson, the price of laundry service has steadily increased each year from $200 for the 1984-85
school year to $225 in 1985-86 and $270 in ’86-87 to this year’s fee of $310. These yearly increases, according
to Mr. Davidson, have been made to help minimize the substantial losses incurred by the laundry service in the past.
(The 1984 self-study reported the laundry deficit to be $102,473 for the 1983-84 school year). With this year’s increase, the
laundry service finally plans to break even, says Davidson. The Comptroller’s office notes that a major expense for the operation
is the employment of its staff. Frances Beaver, Laundry Manager, has 22 full-time employees, three part-time employees and three work-study
students on her staff. She says that this number is the most efficient for the service. The full-time staff is
employed year-round although during the summer, due to lack of necessity, all but four or five of the staff are
farmed out to other areas of the school such as the library and resident life office. Beaver also stressed her
staff’s dedication to the laundry service at Davidson. There are two employees who each “have been here for over 50
years,” she said, and others have been here for over 35 years.

The laundry’s equipment, although old, is still functional. Beaver says the laundry’s budget allows her to make occasional equipment replacements
but not nearly to the extent that she would like. It has been eight to ten years since the last
major replacement in the laundry service equipment.

Last spring, Linda Tatsapaugh of the class of '88 started a petition to make the laundry service optional. She argued
that “forcing people to pay for inferior services” was an unfair practice. “I think everyone I talked to said it
shouldn’t be mandatory,” said Tatsapaugh. She said that she collected 128 signatures, but because she was unable to single-handedly circulate
the petition throughout the school, she never...

See LAUNDRY, page 3

New residence hall is projected to house mostly Seniors

But what about the Belk parking lot?

By MUADI MUKENGE

Does Davidson have a housing problem? Judge for yourself. According to Tom Jennings, Director of Residence Life, housing space has
always been...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Short since he joined the staff in 1985. Ninety to 92 percent of the 1400 student body requests housing; the
campus only has room for 80 percent. In spite of perimeter housing and alternatives such as Oak Hill apartments, there
are four students presently living in lounges, and twenty-five males who were on the waiting list ultimately had to seek
housing in the community. It is in response to the housing shortage that Davidson will have built for the fall
of 1968 four new Lingle Manor, which is across the street from Richardson dorm. These other sites might be rejected
mainly because they are not in the appropriate zones, said Jennings. Davidson is divided into two zones: Zone A contains
administrative and academic buildings; Zone B has residential, dining, and recreational facilities. Lingle Manor was the site most preferred by
students according to a survey taken last spring, said Jennings. The dorms will look very similar to Phi and Eu
halls — brick with white trim and fake columns. Two-storied and entered apartment-style dorms to house 128 students. The dorms
will cost 2 million dollars. According to Jennings, the dorms probably will be located in what is now the parking
lot next to News Analysis: A look at the Davidson tenure system by center doors, they will consist of four
four-bedroom apartments with a common living/dining area and a kitchen. There will be one bathroom and shower. The bedrooms will
therefore only pay single rates. Students who want to lead an independent lifestyle. As opposed to freshmen and sophomores, who
are more likely to want to get to know each other. Who will live in the new dorms? Seniors, more
than likely. According to Jennings, the apartments are tailored for mature students. The rooms will be separated from the living
area by a corridor. Each bedroom will be 9'6" x 10'0", which is smaller than the approximate 12'0" x 9'0"
dimensions of current double rooms. Students A tradition for the future College: Service task force selected By MARIA DOUGLAS to
service,” says Kuykendall, President John Kuykendall “and we need to take a good hard look at ourselves and at what
we’re doing to maintain that reputation.” has appointed Dean of Students Will Terry and Dr. Clark Ross to co-chair a
task force on service. The purpose of the task force, said Kuykendall in a letter to committee members, is “to
study the ways in which Davidson fulfills its obligation to service both locally and in the larger communities in which
we are involved.” The task force is comprised of four professors, four students, two trustees, several administrators, and several members
of the community — 19 in all. They all have a common interest in service to the community. “We've given
ourselves over The task force has before it four main objectives: (1) to identify current service efforts in the college,
(2) to look at what Davidson is doing and to evaluate how well it is doing it, (3) to make
recommendations about the current service status, and (4) to make propositions concerning new things to try and identify resources needed
to implement those plans. The findings of the task force in which we are involved.” See HALL, page 3 See
SERVICE, page 3 Movie Review: Page 5 2001 is a cinema classic one in blowout Page 7
