Robert Nesbit

A happy-go-lucky crowd of Davidson sports fans enjoy a game.

Wildcats Spoil Wofford Homecoming, Break streak: 10-0

Natives rejoice

By MATT TERRELL and STEWART RAWSON

The Wofford Terriers took the field in Spartanburg on October 24 assured that the worst team in all of college
football was sitting on the guest side. Wofford’s players knew that a Homecoming victory was certainly theirs.

Sorry, Terriers. Shouldas, couldas, and wouldas don’t win football games. The Fighting ‘Cats from the metropolis of Davidson came out
fightin’ and marched away with their first victory in 19 games.

Behind the strong running of Freshman tailback Bryn Robinson, who tallied the Cats’ touchdown on a short canter, Davidson added
a second-half field goal from Freshman Brian Jacob to raise the score to 10-0. It remained there for the rest
of the afternoon.

Computer failure disallowed a more punctual congratulatory comment from this football writer, but the end of Davidson’s streak is an
event which calls for rejoicing.

Now for the results from the most recent Saturday in Greenville (just a short ride down I-85 from the scene
of last week’s carnage). Davidson took the field on Halloween at Furman University against the perennial Southern Conference and Division
II power Paladins. Even though the score was definitely very one-sided it nonetheless signaled an improvement on last year’s 59-0
drumming.

For precisely the reason we exited the Southern Conference, (scholarship athletes against non-scholarship foes), the Paladins defeated the Cats by
a margin of 58-3. The only score from Davidson came from Brian Jacob's weekly field goal. His strong foot has
definitely been a bright spot on the otherwise lackluster team.

We can now kiss the large, scholarship-ridden Southern Conference powers good-bye, since with only two games remaining, against West Virginia
Tech and Catawba, we can now be considered full-fledged Colonial Leaguers.

These last two contests will both be held here, at Davidson, kickoffs at 1:30.

---

Field hockey falls to High Point in double overtime.

Team closes season with loss, tie; posts final 3-8-2 record

By LARRY DAGENHART, JR.

The Davidson field hockey team dropped a 2-0 decision October 22 to the Catawba Indians, and tied High Point College
3-3 on November 1 to put the Wildcats 3-8-2 on the season.

Catawba got its first goal off a nice assist from outside the circle on the far right side. The ball
landed perfectly in front of the Catawba offense and the Davidson goal. Later in the half, the Indians scored again
on an unassisted goal by attacking right down the middle.

Defensively, goalie Alison Chapman got eight saves as she let no more shots get by the rest of the day.

The closest Davidson came to scoring was in the second half when Gigi Cooke drove one on one and shot
from just inside the circle. The ball sailed wide by about a foot. It was one of only nine shots
taken by the Wildcats the entire game.

“Mentally, we were in the game,” said coach Betsy Pryor. “Defensively, we held them in the second half and had
good support across the field.”

Coach Pryor also commented that the team needs to work on passing, quick shooting and spacing--keeping the backs and forwards
the proper distance apart.

The sun was out and parents were on hand Saturday to watch the team tie High Point 3-3 after 2
overtimes.

The first half started auspiciously for Davidson when Gigi Cooke scored an unassisted goal thirty seconds into the match. A
few minutes later, Janet Bitter slammed one in from the right side of the field to make it 2-0.

After much play at midfield, the High Point team finally scored an unstoppable goal on Alison Chapman, who had fallen
to the ground after making a save. The Wildcats, however, hung on to a 2-1 lead at halftime.

In the second half, Davidson slipped for a fleeting moment by leaving a High Point player unmarked, letting her score
off a perfect assist from the far left side.

But the ‘Cats continued to keep High Point at bay as Janet Bitter scored her second goal of the day
off an assist from Marjorie Havighurst.

Late in the half, High Point’s Heather Hughes scored on what appeared to be a missed save by Chapman. The
ball bounced over her stick, went in the goal, and the score was tied 3-3.

The two overtimes were composed of two tired teams and two missed shots. One goal by High Point was disallowed
in the first OT due to an offsides call, and a shot by Davidson’s Christy Sloan in the second OT
sailed mere inches to the left of the cage. The game ended moments later.

Since High Point had beaten Davidson 3-0 in September, Coach Pryor was pleased with her team’s performance. “When it looked
like we were slipping, we really hung in there,” she said.

This weekend, the Wildcats wrap up their season at the Deep South Tournament in Salisbury and will play a rematch
Friday with High Point in the first round.
