sports

Dartmouth's Big Green rolls all over Wildcats 38-7

By MATT TERRELL and STEWART RAWSON

The woes of Davidson football continued this week, with the obliging assistance of the Big Green of Dartmouth. The Wildcats dropped their fifth game this season, 38-7. Davidson played the game in a way which is becoming commonplace for the squad. Davidson fell behind early in the game and once again played the second half out of pride, albeit a much-wounded pride. The Wildcats’ misfortunes came in the form of a porous defense and turnovers uncharacteristic of Davidson football.

Dartmouth started out the game with a quick field goal and a 45-yard strike to Craig Morton from quarterback Chris Rorke. The second quarter brought no relief for the Cats. Terry Phillips of Dartmouth racked up a pair of sixes for the Big Green with touchdown scampers of eight yards and one yard. Before the two teams headed to the locker room, though, Dartmouth found the end zone again, this time on a one-yard run after a Rorke pass to David An- 

The first half proved disastrous not only because of the Dartmouth scores, but also because of three interceptions thrown by Peter Hughes and the first quarter departure of freshman Bryn Robinson due to a thigh injury. With Robinson’s injury, the bulk of the Davidson offense was sidelined. Mike Skoczynski commanded the Davidson offensive unit during most of the second half and connected on seven of twelve passes for 85 yards. The highlight of the game for Davidson, excepting the fourth quarter touchdown pass from Skoczynski to Robert Sickles from 29 yards out, was an 85-yard return by Brian Overcash brought back on a clipping penalty.

The Dartmouth victory marked the first win of the season for the Big Green (1-2). Having lost its opening games by a combined score of 75-6, the victory gave first-year coach Buddy Teevens his initial win and the first for the school outside the Ivy League since 1977. Davidson carries its season into a Homecoming weekend clash with Wingate at Richardson Field Saturday.

Cross-country times continue to drop

By BILL SMITH

The cross-country teams traveled to Boone, North Carolina, this past weekend for the Appalachian State University Classic. Coach Andrew knew the meet would be tough in both races and hoped that such excellent competition will help to strengthen and develop his squad. The weather was not as ideal as expected with the temperature being forty degrees and a wind chill factor of twenty degrees. However, the races were still fast and exciting. The men performed well with each of the top five runners getting his best time of the season.

Rugby: Gentleman's Game?

By BILL SMITH

Who are those men who throw their unshielded bodies into crowds of similar animals? Well, we are rugby players. We are a special breed blessed with the fierce desire to run over people as well as the superior intellect to understand this intense game. Fifteen of us play in games that last eighty minutes with forty-minute halves. There are no time-outs unlike most sports and only two substitutions can be made during the entire game. Guess what that means. Yes, we are well-conditioned athletes, or else we disgorge violently and pass out often. Rugby is not a sport for the weak-hearted.

Eight of the players, appropriately numbered from one through eight, lodge their heads, arms, buttocks, and whatever other body parts they see fit into one mass to form a “scrum.” Within this scrum, they attempt to gain possession of the ball, an enlarged egg-like object, by way of kicking it behind each of their legs. Once this occurs,Appalachian State conquered their home course, an eight-kilometer course extending over open and wooded trails with mostly level or downhill terrain, due in part to overall winner Dean Duncan. Duncan finished with a time of twenty-five minutes, forty-one seconds. Virginia Tech followed ASU’s thirty points with forty-one while our team finished in the latter half of teams with 154 points. Jay Clugston continues to lead the team as he came in twenty-seventh place with a time of 27:50. Chris Fisher, who has yet to reach his potential due to his previous injury, followed in 34th place with a time of 28:12. Our next two runners, Steve Childs and Bob Cornish, finished back to back at 36th and 37th with times of 28:19 and 28:26, respectively. Bill Breidenstine was our fifth runner at 42nd place with a time of 29:01. The men continue to run close together, only a minute, eleven seconds separating first and fifth, and their times are dropping as well.

In the women’s race, Bridget Koster led her Georgia Tech teammates to a victory with a winning time of eighteen minutes and one second. Georgia Tech’s thirty-two points were followed by Duke’s forty-four, Appalachian State’s sixty-five, our team’s 112, and finally Wake Forest’s 113 points. The five-kilometer wooded course was fast due to a half-mile hill preceding a lot of level or downhill terrain. Three of our women ran their fastest times, including Kappa Peddy. Missy Willis continues to run extremely well; she again led the team, finishing twelfth with a time of 19:10. Behind her came Morrow Reeves in nineteenth place with a time of 20:05. Getting her best time, Debbie Niles placed twenty-first with a 20:16. Laura Fannin ran a 21:10 and finished twenty-eighth, and Kappa Peddy followed with her time of an even twenty-two minutes at thirty-second place.

Another man (the number nine man) picks the ball up, curls around the pack, and hurls it toward, yes, the ten man. This man then runs straight upfield into a gang of opposing players and proceeds to be ambushed. Before the instant of contact, however, he tosses the ball to a teammate several yards deep who in turn repeats the process. This continues until the ball is either out of bounds, touched down for a score of four points, or obtained by the defensive team. These players who run with the ball are generally the backs with numbers ten through fifteen. Obviously, more needs to be said, and in some cases corrected, about our game but I will allow you to research this information. Please contact me at -6424 when you learn more.

This year’s team abounds with youthful freshmen and sophomores and a few seniors with experience to coach. A couple even have playing time in Europe. Freshman fullback Ralph Iseman (number 30) moves the ball. Unfortunately, many of us were clueless to the game four weeks ago and will be learning all year long. However, with our immense talents, the Davidson Rugby club sports a record of one and one at the current time. Our victory came against a physical Belmont Abbey team in a close decision, and our loss was to a well-practiced East Carolina team. We should do fairly well this fall, and by spring we will have a more experienced team. The next home game is against Appalachian State on the thirty-first of October. Come by and bring your parents, brothers, sisters, pets, whoever. The "A" team plays at one o’clock, while a “B” game is generally assembled immediately afterwards. The remainder of our games will be away against North Carolina State, Duke, and the University of North Carolina-Greensboro. Discover the physically intense game of rugby and become drowned in the brilliance of our game.