6c Friday, October 16, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Picking a college basketball preseason favorite

By CHRISTOPHER HUGHES

Though it may seem like only yesterday that Keith Smart sank his jumper with six seconds remaining to win the National Championship for Indiana, college basketball season is once again approaching. And with the changing of the leaves every fall comes an onslaught of hoops magazines, some worthwhile and others only useful for wrapping fish.

So far, the most interesting trend among preseason predictions seems to be the lack of any clear-cut favorites. While one magazine, Inside Sports, has ranked this year’s Kentucky Wildcats first in the country, others have placed them as low as fourteenth. While the Cats look tough on paper, it is not easy to forget that this is the same team that takes high school All-Americans and turns them into Southeastern Conference also-rans. However, Eddie Sutton will be able to put four seniors and Rex Chapman on the court to dominate at least their own conference.

Other teams highly regarded include Michigan, Purdue, and Indiana, showing that once again the Big Ten will be the toughest place to win in college ball. What makes each of these teams look so promising is the return of last year’s starting point guards. In fact, three of the best floor leaders in the country will take the court in Big Ten play this season in the form of B.J. Armstrong at Iowa, Keith Smart at Indiana, and Everette Stephens at Purdue. The only sour note is that these powerhouses will spend the months of January and February knocking each other off, making Dick Vitale’s pick of Michigan and Street and Smith’s pick of Purdue as number one look unlikely to stand up all winter long.

One definite change this year is not seeing North Carolina lined up as the top team in the nation. This year’s Tar Heels are certainly a team to beat, just not the team to beat. This must be a relief for Dean Smith in that he will take a talented but very young team into battle this year. The Tar Heels will surely miss their front line depth of last season, especially when J.R. Reid gets into foul trouble as he is prone to do. However, the biggest loss for Carolina will be Kenny Smith. Love him or hate him, Smith held North Carolina together. At the moment, there seems to be no heir apparent to the point position either. If Ranzino Smith shows some improvement or if freshman King Rice makes a quick entry into the Dean Smith system, it could be a long year for Carolina haters. Long, but not as long as years past.

Last season, my chief complaint with North Carolina’s dominance of the ACC was the fact that the rest of the conference was having an off year. Apparently, there will be no change this year. The Tar Heels’ biggest challenges will come from Duke, Georgia Tech, and N.C. State. Duke will be a top twenty team almost by default. The Blue Devils will have their share of talent but lack the element key to all great teams — a point guard. However, Quin Snyder or promising freshman Joe Cook could fill the spot. Inside, the Blue Devils have Danny Ferry, John Smith, and Billy King, all of whom will be asked to score more often this season. Further down in the conference...

Now that you've gotten into Davidson, IBM can help you get more out of it.

The road to graduation is paved with term papers, lab reports, cramming, all-nighters and, of course, exams. To ease that journey and awaken your professors to your exceptional abilities, we suggest the newest member of the IBM Personal System/2 family: the Model 25 Collegiate. It's a high-powered personal computer with advanced graphics...Capabilities, designed to fit on your desk without adding to the clutter. And it comes with a generous 640 KB memory, two 3.5” diskette drives, and an aid package every student can appreciate—a big IBM Personal System/2. Microsoft is a registered trademark of the Microsoft Corporation. IBM is a registered trademark and Personal System/2 is a trademark of the International Business Machines Corporation. © IBM 1987. Discount, plus Microsoft Windows 1.04, Write, Paint, Cardfile, IBM DOS 3.3, and a mouse. Pop in the load-and-go diskette and your Model 25 Collegiate is set to help you write and revise long papers and illustrate your points by combining words and graphics. So your professors will draw favorable conclusions about your work. For more information on the Model 25 Collegiate, visit the IBM Education Product Coordinator on campus. You'll quickly learn how to get the most out of the experience.

N.C. State will make waves if Charles Shackleford lives up to his abilities. Quentin Jackson is the key man for the Pack this year, filling the long-vacant point position. Georgia Tech will play well if youngsters Brian Oliver, Michael Christian, and Dennis Scott can take some heat off the experienced inside players. Maryland should win the UNCC most-improved award under second-year coach Bob Wade. The Terps will press the rest of the conference into a few losses, a tactic that will work well due to the lack of mature guards. Virginia and Clemson will struggle but finish ahead of Wake Forest, a team with one junior and no seniors.

Though it has yet to reach the newsstands, the Sporting News College Basketball Yearbook will pick Syracuse as 1988’s top team. This seems like a logical pick save the fact that Syracuse may not even be the top team in their conference. The battle for first between Syracuse and Pitt in the Big East should be one of the most entertaining in the nation as Rony Seikaly will try to take on Pitt’s impressive front line. The Panthers' weak spot will be outside shooting, but when you have the best rebounding team of the 1980s, you could almost let the coach’s grandmother play shooting guard.

Last year, the Metro Conference became the laughingstock of basketball by not placing a single team in the NCAA field. This year will be quite different. Louisville will be back in force as they have finally found a backcourt. The Cards also return Herbert Crook, Felton Spencer, and Tony Kimbro. However, most importantly, Pervis Ellison has gained a year of humility and could still develop into the kind of player that will make even Billy Packer forget J.R. Reid.

Last year featured the first appearance of a western team in the Final Four since 1980. Though it is unlikely that UNLV will repeat last year’s performance, western teams will show a drastic improvement. Leading the way will be the Wyoming Cowboys. Despite having five starters returning and possibly the best coach west of Larry Brown, the Cowboys don’t seem to get the respect they would get if they were an east coast school. However, a quick peek at the schedule can show us where Wyoming is headed this year as their only non-conference test will come at UAB. In the WAC, they will be challenged by only New Mexico and UTEP. Led by the best-sounding names in college hoops (Fennis Dembo and Eric Leckner), the boys from Laramie should go into the tournament in the top ten.

Other teams around the nation to keep a close eye on will be Notre Dame, Missouri, DePaul, and Florida. Each of these teams has a question mark at a major position though. As is always the case, however, no one should be counted out until next April in Kansas City when the champion is crowned.