Wednesday, April 15, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Past English majors extol benefits of English major
First of Two Parts
By NELLE McCORKLE

In response to a Davidsonian survey, English majors graduating from Davidson in 1980 and 1981 reevaluated their own decisions about
their major, indicated the ways they found jobs, described their past and present positions, and advised current Davidson students. Davidson’s
class of 1980 included 21 English majors and the 1981 class had 29; 20 percent responded to the questionnaire. One
of the ten alumni responding holds an MBA; three others have earned law degrees (an additional two are still in
law school). Two alumni went directly from Davidson to graduate school: one got his law degree and the other went
on to a Ph.D. in English.

None of the respondents found his or her job through the Davidson Careers Office, but one alumnus received help from
the French department to become a teacher for the French Ministry of Education in Alsace. This graduate wrote, “This was
a great deal: a job, room, board, and income for a year with lots of vacation time. [I] hope students
are still taking advantage of this!”

One alumnus, a third-year student at Vanderbilt Law School, emphasized the importance of personal initiative and personal contacts. About finding
a job, he wrote, “Do not rely on the placement office. They’re wonderful people, but you’re the only person who
can care enough about your future to grab what you want!”

Asked what jobs or industries present English majors should consider, an alumna wrote, “Whatever you are interested in. The sky
is the limit. Be creative. Do things or go places that seem important to you.” Industries recommended by English alumni
include journalism, management, marketing and sales, law, and teaching. One alumna worked as a banking department paralegal for a New
York law firm immediately following graduation and wrote, “Consider a bank... Training programs are excellent, and provide education that would
be of benefit to any future job (also, things not likely to be learned as an English major).” Now employed
as an Atlanta law firm associate, she wrote, “I believe being a paralegal was helpful in helping me decide whether
I wanted to be a lawyer and helped convince my firm that I had the necessary training and conviction. Law
school is not for the faint-hearted and should not be undertaken just because you cannot think of anything else to
do.”

Another lawyer, first employed as assistant manager of a retail gift shop, called the English major “terrific preparation for law
school and law practice.” A third lawyer, who recommended management, sales, and marketing as fields English majors should consider, suggested
earning an MBA and working as a summer corporate intern. She wrote, “Interview heavily in college.”

Graduates cited volunteer experience as helpful background for finding and executing a job. A second-year law student who plans to
become a public-interest lawyer wrote,

Continued from page 6

Visiting director Connie Welsh is artistic director of Charlotte’s Tarradiddle Players and teaches theatre at Queen’s College. She brings a
special background to the production of Brighton Beach Memoirs: “This is so much a part of my growing up. I
grew up in Manhattan in an ethnic center as a Jew. I remember, my grandparents were orthodox Jews. I am
remembering little mannerisms and customs that I did not observe while I was growing up.” Welsh believes that it is
precisely this ethnicity that caused theatre professors Rupert Barber and Joe Gardner to choose this play. In the South, we
are seldom confronted with our ethnicity. The subtle ethnicity of Brighton Beach Memoirs will approach us quietly without offending us.
Neil Simon uses his Jewishness to create humor without moving into uncomfortable satire. This touch of ethnicity combined with Welsh’s
gift for directing relationships between people and characterization produces exciting possibilities for Davidson's Brighton Beach Memoirs.

The production of Brighton Beach Memoirs is a homecoming for Welsh who lived in Davidson for many years before moving
to Charlotte with her creation, Tarradiddle Players—a company of adults who produce children’s plays. Although she acted on numerous occasions
in college productions, she has never directed Davidson College students before. She has looked forward to the opportunity to work
with Davidson students, who she describes as bright and perceptive: “There is a tremendous satisfaction in knowing that everything you
say they listen to and everything you encourage them to do they do. It is exciting to be listened to
and also it keeps me on my toes because I can’t fool around and pretend I know what I am
doing. They spot dishonesty in any form, and that is challenging. There is a Davidson persona that comes forth in
anything they do,” says Welsh.

The cast of Brighton Beach Memoirs consists of Brian Kosanovich as Eugene Jerome; Cameron Dougan as Jack Jerome; Noel Brewster
as Kate Jerome; Grant Morain as Stanley Jerome; Alyssa Kendall as Laurie; Marisa Gaba as Nora; and Catherine Norton as
Blanche. The play will be presented in Hodson Hall at 8 p.m. on April 24, 25 and May 1, 2
and at 7:30 p.m. on April 30 in Hodson Hall. Tickets are $3 for students. Call the box office at
892-1696 between 2-5 p.m. weekdays beginning April 13 to reserve tickets. Welsh says, “It’s here. It’s now. It’s these young
people expressing themselves through this vehicle and if we touch you, if we make you laugh or make you cry
then that’s our payment.”“I think experience is critical and I wish I had done more work—volunteer is as valuable as
paid—in areas I was interested in. I wouldn't have floundered so much after school. Between jobs I volunteered at legal
services and I know that helped me get my second job (as a district attorney’s crisis counselor for victims of
violent crime, doing public speaking, court orientation, and service referral). You have to try things to know what you like.”

Six graduates cited personal contacts as a means of obtaining their first jobs. The graduate who worked as a New
York paralegal simply sent her resume and then visited the firm for an interview. She advised, “I believe it is
important to have a face-to-face interview. I often told potential employers that I was going to be in their city
and would like to stop by or have an interview. Do not wait for them to volunteer to arrange for
your transportation to an interview.” In her response, she told English students, “Interview on campus, send out lots of resumes,
be willing to use any connection you might have.”

Nonprofit experience also helped a lawyer who wrote, “Get involved in community government, organizations, churches, and anywhere you meet community
leaders. Give time to the charities of your choice.” Besides recommending volunteer activity, graduates suggested summer jobs and internships to
provide job preparation. “When turned down for a bank position, I was told that those hired for the training program
had spent their summers working at that bank. If you know what direction you want to head, start at the
bottom, if necessary, for summer jobs to gain experience!”

First employed as an intern youth pastor at a Nashville Presbyterian church following graduation, one alumna has since worked as
a paralegal and as a director of West Tennessee Foster Grandparent Program; she now teaches seventh grade Latin and English
at a Memphis private school. Asked if she were satisfied with her selection of an English major, she responded, “Yes—especially
completing a thesis under Dr. Holland. As an English major at Davidson, I was challenged to think clearly and to
communicate either orally or through written work. Employers want employees who can reason on their own, be creative, and express
themselves.” This graduate claimed, “‘Davidson’ on my resume landed me this teaching job after a ten-minute interview!”

Regarding summer experience, the third-year Vanderbilt law student wrote, “Take any internship (even nonpaying, if you can swing it financially)
you can get your hands on. Don’t waste your summers sitting around the pool when you can be learning something.”
Previously employed as a writer for the Atlanta Constitution, Nashville Banner, and the Palm Beach Post, one alumnus now edits
the Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law. “I am probably doing a better job editing because I spent a couple of
years knocking out two or three stories daily for print,” he said. “Forcing students to write weekly would be the
most helpful act Davidson could do for its students. A required thesis for all English majors might also be a
good idea.” Of his newspaper work, he wrote, “The skills you develop will be bankable whether you go into journalism
or not.”

A CIA employee, however, advised English majors against journalism careers. He wrote, “Don’t bank on newspapers, publishing, newsletters—they are few
and liberal arts majors are many.” This graduate obtained his job following an interview at the Washington, D.C., CIA security
office during his senior year spring break; he sold books at the National Gallery of Art as a first job
while waiting for processing of his security clearances.

The last portion of this story will appear next week.

Editor’s Note: This is the first installment of The Davidsonian’s newest feature, Life in Hell. This is a valiant attempt
on our part to be a chic urban weekly.

Tom Moore

LIFE IN HELL

“LIFE IN HELL”? Add amusing little trifle of a comic strip starring assorted critters, right? Right. Why such a star
of “negative hell” title? Fun times when I was just poked, lost, amused & moved to Los Angeles when it
thought it was. What are laughs? Is there a “Life in Hell” philosophy? Oh, man. Out. Let me go. Get
dear old assess, CA. Keep USA.

LIFE IN HELL FUN FACTS

1) The latter half of the 20th century, there was a pop art swimsuit known as the bikini.

LIFE IN HELL: AN INTRODUCTION

DRAMATIS PERSONAE

Binky’s case: Ice girl, EME, propensity to poke Binky. Organism in 6 features: Basically Binky is a Kenacg Oakes, Binky’s
ice germane son... Craw more migrated than Binky, organism in 6 features: Pretty obvious, isn’t it?

CAN THE TOP FIVE CARTOONIST INKIES IN HISTORY:

MAJOR THEMES

1) Binky’s 3 draw Binky.

2) William Makepeace of “Life in Hell”? Vanity Fair (1940), 5¢. There’s a minor character named Lord Binky. In the
movie The Light That Failed (1939), Howard’s 06th column’s dog is named Binky.

©1986 by Matt Groening

HOW THE HELL DO YOU PRONOUNCE NAME?

Matt—Fin & ran in 4 torn?: Last name rhymes with “complaining.” Can the cartoonist draw anything besides rabbits? Mainline comics
say, “Auw 41 Deinnaiw Beoruces of rovtac, or possibly both. Nothing perturbs them.” Distinguishing features: Fezzes, both eyes on same
side of head.

DOES THE CARTOONIST LOOK ANYTHING LIKE BINKY?

Not really.
