In Britain, most debates among candidates for Prime Minister are held over the radio. The British are nearly as fond
of their radio debates as the English are proud of their ethnicity:

In the beginning by some mistake
Men were foreigners all created;
Til heaven conceived a nobler plan
And there was born an Englishman
Conceive the difference, if you can,
Had Adam been an Englishman.

Unlike their British counterparts, Presidential candidates in this nation can avoid, to great extents, confrontations with one another and with
public opinions by using brief commercials and rehearsed speeches to inform citizens. Such avoidances do not befit a republic; selecting
a president requires better knowledge of the virtues and thoughts of the candidates than their commercials and speeches can provide.
Therefore, the Democratic party and the Republican party should write into their bylaws that at least six radio debates are
to be held among presidential candidates of the same party prior to the nominations, and into their platforms that at
least six radio debates are to be held between presidential candidates prior to the election. A half-dozen or more radio
debates would not only help citizens to evaluate and to compare presidential candidates, but would lessen the possibility of a
chance remark taking on inappropriate significance.

In 1976, Gerald Ford lost face when he said that Poland had managed to remain outside the iron curtain. In
1980, Jimmy Carter lost face when he admitted to asking occasionally his daughter, Amy, for advice. Radio debates need not
be held to the exclusion of television debates. Radio debates place emphases on virtues and thoughts expressed; television debates place
emphases on appearances and gestures. The intentions of presidential candidates in television debates are to keep away from mistakes and
to look good. Herewith, the virtues and thoughts of the candidates are eclipsed by their less relevant skills.

The first time television had an impact on a presidential election was in 1960, with the Kennedy-Nixon debate. Kennedy prepared
for the debate by adding to his suntan. Weak from illness, Nixon appeared pale and feeble. He had to wear
makeup, which was not considered appropriate for a male at that time. Rumor was that Nixon had been made up
by a Democrat. Many believe that Nixon’s unshaven appearance, suggesting a villain, caused him to lose the debate. During a
television debate with Carter, Ford had a dry throat because his staff did not want on the podium a glass
of water for him to tip over. Recently, Senator Paul Simon...

Are you only involved in yourselves?
Linda Tatsapaugh

Last weekend 129 people turned out for the CROP walk. Two years ago, 200 showed up. It was a beautiful
autumn afternoon and the walk only took two hours or less. Why did so few people participate? The walk committee
and I knocked ourselves out (and neglected studies often) to make it a success, which it was for those who
walked. I don’t take it personally, therefore, that CROP went unnoticed by much of the campus and the community. I
believe this was just one more example of the apathy so common these days.

As coordinator of a Y Student Service Corps Program, I see some terrific opportunities for students to offer their service
to the community (while learning a lot more about the real world than they will in the library). I also
see many project directors (throughout the campus and beyond) fighting for every inch of gain. It’s not uncommon to feel
guilty about asking for an hour of someone’s time. Shouldn’t the person asked feel worse for refusing to help? Why
do people feel they’re doing mankind a huge favor when they do manage to find a few minutes to give?
Are they really too busy to lend a hand? I run into this “overburdened” attitude constantly in any area of
service with which I work. What has caused it?

Many excuses have been given for apathy toward social service. Here at Davidson, students claim the workload is too heavy
for them to afford time for service. Later in life, the same excuse holds. Besides, it is claimed, we’re paying
plenty of tax dollars toward government-run programs in most needy sectors of the community. There are also many people who
are too comfortable to believe anyone could be in need. And besides, they would explain, what could one person do?
There will always be poor, as well as sick. It’s a fact of life that we cannot eradicate. None of
these excuses is enough to excuse apathy, however. Time is what you make it. It all depends on where your
priorities are. That which is most important to you, you will find time for. Students, it is possible to have
life after little without failing. Perhaps a grade point will drop occasionally, until you learn efficiency of study time, but
the experience outside your books is a lot more educational.

Of course, the tax dollar excuse is bogus. President Reagan has often stressed his preference for private over government programs.
Existing government operations are often inferior or just not extensive enough to meet the need anyway. And the “one person
against the world” excuse is not worth the ink to oppose. I believe the impetus most people need is experience.I
would like to see all middle- and upper-income individuals try out the lower brackets for a while. A day ought
to be enough. And healthy, intelligent students ought to check out old age, cancer, and illiteracy. Who knows, they might
need some help themselves someday. Then it won’t seem like such a sacrifice to give an hour a week of
time. It will be a blessing.

I do not want this article to sound defensive of my own or other current programs. Many people are doing
wonderful things for others quite selflessly. There is a live seed of community spirit wanting to sprout, and I am
optimistic about its success. It’s the greater community, the uninvolved ones, to whom I appeal. I don’t really want to
make people feel guilty about what they haven’t done. I only want to encourage them to act differently now, and
to reconsider the ends to their means. I will not expound upon the blessings of giving; that must be experienced
personally. It is a sense of responsibility to the community, microcosm of our interrelated earth, that I wish to instill
in minds which have tried to remain detached, in the delusion that their apathy will not in the end affect
them personally.

Two weeks ago, Lee Eichelberger wrote of the lack of student involvement on campus. I believe he pinpointed the problem
in a quotation from an administration official: “They’re only involved in themselves.” Trouble is, they don’t realize that the community
is themselves. Incidentally, students are not the only apathetic members of this community; only one faculty and two staff members
walked on Sunday. I realize this is one isolated event, but I know from experience that it is representative of
others. It is always the same people who are involved. Do they actually have so much more time than everyone
else? I believe it is only a matter of priorities.

As President Kuykendall’s task force on service begins its difficult job of assessing present programs and suggesting new ones, I
wish them luck. I also offer them my opinion that there will be no change in the current lack of
service on this campus (or anywhere else) unless they can alter priorities. Until it is important to people to help
neighbors, until they understand how much we are affected by our own actions (both immediately and far in the future),
they will not be able to find the time to lend a hand.

Linda Tatsapaugh is a senior religion major from Greensboro, NC.

---

Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian’s “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. The editors will try
to print all opinions dealing with subjects of general interest to the campus community, but they must adhere to the
following guidelines:

- The opinions must be neatly typed. The editors will also accept articles submitted on 5.25” diskettes in SSI WordPerfect
or IBM PC-DOS text file format.
- Opinions must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Monday before the expected publication date, except for opinions submitted
on diskettes, which are due at 5 p.m. on Tuesday.
- All opinions should be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their
names to be printed with their articles.
- The staff will not edit opinions for content or style, but for the rules of English grammar only. The
editors will inform the authors of any substantial changes.
- Because of limited space, it is sometimes impossible to print all opinions submitted. The editors reserve the right to
select articles for publication from among those received.
- Writers should include information about their home city and state, their graduating class, and their major field of study
(or their profession).

---

In preparing for a television debate with six other candidates for the Democratic presidential nomination, spent more time checking camera
angles and listening to suggestions as to how he should cross his legs than he spent revising his argument for
a more progressive tax system. Simon, a student of Lincoln, considers him the model statesman. Preparing for his senatorial debates
with Stephen A. Douglas, Lincoln certainly spent less time positioning his long, lean body than he spent revising his challenge
of the moral foundations of slavery.

Americans who saw the Kennedy-Nixon debate on television thought Kennedy triumphant; who saw the Carter-Reagan debate and the Reagan-Mondale debate
on television thought Reagan victorious. But Americans who heard these debates over the radio considered them dead-heat ties. Journalists who
covered these debates judged them ties. In each of the three cases, the candidate chosen as winner by the viewing
audience was elected President.

E. B. White wrote in Harper's in 1938: “I believe television is going to be the test of the modern
world, and that in this new opportunity to see beyond the range of our vision we shall discover either a
new and unbearable disturbance of the general peace or a saving radiance in the sky. We shall stand or fall
by television.” As candidates come to depend on television, so does their government. Radio debates would not allow citizens to
look beyond the ranges of their visions but would allow them to share in the warmth of political minds and
political hearts fully engaged.

Brown is a senior from Mint Hill, SC.
