Features

Mary Black shows colorful side of Davidson history

By NELLE McCORKLE

This week Miss Mary Caldwell Black has attended three church committee meetings, labeled hundreds of church newsletters, and stocked her freezer with homemade whole-wheat rolls. She insisted, “Of course, I’m on the sidelines now.” Asked how she participates in so many activities, Black said, “I don’t do them all at once.” Her commitments include Davidson College Presbyterian Church, where Black is an elder. She has held Women of the Church offices at the local, presbytery, and synod levels. Black said, “They elected my sister in Concord and me to two respective church sessions in the same year, and both of us were well past 80 years old, and I don’t understand it... seems like you're pretty bad when you take on 80-year-old women for such a job.”

Black and her sister Ellen now live on Concord Road facing Martin Se Building. A southern smilax vine shields the rocker-filled porch, and the yard contains flower and vegetable gardens. With neighbor Colonel Virgil Foster, Black raises tomatoes, potatoes, spinach, eggplant, turnip greens, squash, cucumbers, hot peppers, and “okra galore.” She freezes each summer's harvest and also prepares plum jelly using plums grown on her trees. Known for her homemade bread, Black also bakes biscuits and whole-wheat rolls for other Davidson residents and for out-of-town relatives.

Local children know Black as a hostess. “I like tea parties for children,” she said. Black presides at these occasions using a china teapot shaped like a laughing dog and a creamer in the form of a chubby cow. “That teapot makes the best tea that’s made, according to the children that drink it,” she said. A second generation of guests now attends these tea parties: Nancy Smith Gardner, a former guest, now escorts her children to Black’s parties. Gardner said, “I remember going to her house and visiting with her mother. Her mother was deaf, and we would write notes back and forth. The tea was greatly improved by the addition of as much sugar as Miss Mary would allow. She is now as she was when I was a child.”

Two previous generations of area children know Black as a Sunday School teacher. Elizabeth Woods, whose children attended Black’s five-year-old class, said, “We remember her with affection. She used parents to assist in church hour, a new development at that point and trained them carefully. She is probably one of the most faithful members in continuing to work in the church.”

Black came to Davidson with her mother, sister, and five brothers in 1918. Her mother selected the town for the college: “It was a church school, and then you didn’t consider anything else.” While her brothers attended Davidson, Black and her family frequently entertained their student friends. “I’ve always lived with a whole lot of men here,” she said. “Some called this the Kappa Sigma Hotel... One Sunday my brother said, ‘Who slept in that front room last night?’ I said, ‘I don’t know; I thought it was a friend of yours.’ He said, ‘I thought you knew him.’ Before dark, here came a friend of ours who said he wanted to thank his hosts. He said he just looked around ‘til he found an empty bed and got in it.”

Although her brothers all enrolled at Davidson (four graduated from Davidson; one graduated from North Carolina State University), Black never attended Davidson classes. She said of the college attitude toward women who asked to attend classes at that time, “It wasn’t very pleasant really. They didn’t give them any recognition — no diplomas, no certificates. Some of the people in town went for two years and then went somewhere else. They couldn’t take all the courses — some of the professors just wouldn’t have girls in class.”

Black maintains her commitments and seeks new activities. “I get bored with one thing,” she said. “I know how to do more than I get done. My garden needs a lot of work now.”

Ballad of Narayama transcends traditional Japanese locale

By BROOKE KNIGHT

The Ballad of Narayama is, above all else, real. Although the setting and time are very distant to our mode of thinking, Director Shohei Imamura hurls the viewer into the basic and realistic human soul. The film confronts us with problems which make us throw off our modern placid certitude: in life, the movie demonstrates, nothing can be taken for granted. There, it’s Life versus Death, Individual versus Society. Although the physical scope is limited to a northern Japanese village comprising only a few families and not connected with the outside world, the psychological scope is immense. The village is a microcosm of life — a highly concentrated piece of life, which makes everything that goes on immediate and real.

A matrifocal family (unusual in Japanese society) is the centerpiece of action. Orin, whose husband had mysteriously disappeared years earlier (leaving her shamed), guides her family through daily existence. She is nearing 70, the age when she will be taken up to Narayama and left to die. At that age, she is of no use to the community any longer, consuming food, rather than producing it. The community’s survival is more important than the individual’s. Much of the action is concentrated on her preparation for her own death, so that the family will continue for future generations. The family’s importance is placed between the community’s and the individual’s in the hierarchy. In a revealing and poignant scene, a whole family is buriedalive after having been caught for stealing. What makes the scene especially hard to take is that one of the girls of the family caught stealing is betrothed to Orin’s grandson, heir-apparent of the family. The law of community supersedes individual emotions. The viewer walks away with the feeling that the subject is presented honestly. Parts are graphic — however, they are graphic not to shock but to inform. You understand their lives because of the realistic presentation, without any moral judgments. Imamura effectively intersperses scenes of snakes, rodents, and moths copulating and killing between scenes of humans doing the same. This brings out the animalistic nature needed to live in extreme situations. The cinematography ranges from excellent to poor, but one repeated egregious technical error was particularly irritating: the sound boom would bob at the top of the screen, taking the viewer totally out of the scene. The key grip oughta be shot. Various camera tricks are effective, but many are overused. The production is unsophisticated by modern standards. The movie moves more quickly than traditional Japanese drama, but slower than, say, Rambo. But the intensity is at such a level to keep the audience riveted for the full lengthy duration. It is gritty and seemingly cruel, yet at times it shows the incredible depth of human emotion. Despite the technical problems, the material is presented frankly and openly, opening our eyes to the real struggle for life. It takes on big themes and handles them well. Three and a half stars.

Nicholson and Turner overcome failures of Prizzi’s Honor
By FLORENCE SNIVELY

Movies are, in general, either serious or funny. Occasionally a very good movie mixes elements of both. Prizzi’s Honor tries to be both humorous and serious, but fails. Its humor, gentle mockery of the traditional love story, clashes with the drama of the gangster movie's life or death struggle. As a result, when taken together the humor seems cheesy and the drama seems unrealistic.

The action begins as the Prizzis, a powerful Brooklyn family, gather for a wedding. It is here that Charley Partanna (played by Jack Nicholson) first encounters Irene Walker (Kathleen Turner). She fascinates him but leaves him in mystery, disappearing without even telling him her name. We also meet the striking Maerose Prizzi (Angelica Huston), black sheep of the gangster set, and find that although she was once engaged to Partanna, his interest in her has faded. The wedding is more than just a gathering of family, however; it is also a cover for a hit on a rival family.

Charley Partanna and Irene Walker fall immediately, passionately, and predictably in love. Neither has creativity enough to make romance fresh and exciting. They communicate solely in clichés. The romance is complicated by Irene’s professional life — she too is a hitman and thief, sometimes in the employ of the Prizzis. For Irene, total honesty has no place in a relationship. As Charley and Irene keep secrets from each other, the Prizzis plot and scheme around them.

The Prizzi who does the most plotting and scheming is Maerose, Partanna’s former girlfriend. From the very first, she controls the way others see her. She appears inappropriately dressed and is spiteful to shock her father. She cannot contain her tears when she wants Partanna to comfort her. It is almost impossible to tell which of her apparent emotions to trust. Angelica Huston balances Maerose’s spunk and spite perfectly. Even the lines of her face adapt to the facets of Maerose’s personality — sharp and angular in business scenes with the Prizzi bosses, soft and appealing in scenes with Partanna, who she really loves. Although Prizzi men consider their women helpless in the world of “business,” there is no doubt that Maerose gets what she wants.

Jack Nicholson and Kathleen Turner are both good actors in limited roles. Nicholson's Partanna tries to double-cross the Prizzis but is not intelligent enough to succeed. Irene plays people against each other and eventually gets caught in her own trap. Charley and Irene share a weakness in their love for each other, but their love is undercut by humor until its real existence is questionable. This is not because of bad acting. The scene in which Partanna first realizes Irene is also a crook is especially fine; by their facial expressions alone the audience can tell exactly when Irene is lying and exactly when Partanna believes her. Unfortunately, the script does not allow either character to be particularly lovable or admirable.

William Hickey is convincing as Don Corrado, head of the Prizzi family. Small and old, he appears to need his sons to speak for him; at his first appearance, he is sleeping in a church pew during the wedding. When times call for his scheming, however, he is sharper than any of the other Prizzis. Don Corrado survives.

Prizzi’s Honor misses its target primarily because of a conflict of intentions. At the outset, it is clearly a spoof of The Godfather movies. Jack Nicholson even talks like Marlon Brando. Against the costume backdrop of a gangster empire, the lovers recite lines changed from dramatic to humorous by overuse. In the middle of the movie, the gangster backdrop moves into the foreground and a complex plot develops. The second half of the movie is convoluted, fast-moving, and suspenseful. Alas, many of the character motivations come from a truly unconvincing beginning; the second half does not fully stand by itself.

If you can forgive its lack of unity, Prizzi’s Honor is a pretty good movie. Its humor, taken by itself, is funny. Its drama, taken by itself, is worth watching, if not absolutely riveting. Prizzi’s Honor is entertainment, not perfectly balanced literature.