14

Do you belong to a fraternity? (Part II)
Ken Bogert

The point of all this is that Davidson’s fraternities have at least one thing in common. They take individuals and
reform them in the fraternities’ images -- that is how we can understand the characterizations of each group. Each group
has its own distinct image and, therefore, contributes to the factionalism of the student body. At Davidson, we have a
student body divided by fraternities -- John is a Pika, Joe is a Phi-Delt, Jim is a KA, etc. Taken
into a closed group, the fraternity members are isolated from broader learning and growing experiences which should be part of
a liberal arts education. In this sense, it directly conflicts with the goals of Davidson College.

Maybe this introduction is not too clear. What follows will try to explain what I mean, but I will try
to keep it short -- we all know how boring long-winded opinions are.

First, I want to look at self-selection. I want to show the difference between the idealistic intentions of the system
and compare those to the reality of how the system actually works. Ideally, it promotes openness and freedom of choice;
realistically...

Next, I would like to look at the specific situations encountered by blacks and international students at Davidson. Their virtual
non-participation in the fraternity system indicates, to me at least, that “frats” are not actively pursuing growth, but are sheltering
their members from a total education. Then I want to look at the fraternity social life and propose a better
system, a system more conducive to openness, not factionalism.

Ideally, self-selection means that any individual can join any one of the fraternities on campus. The decision is not made
by the fraternities, but by the individual wanting to join; everyone has access to pursue their personal preference. The goal
behind this, in part, is diversity. Different people will select different “frats” for different reasons. No closed groups will be
created. One by-product of self-selection, ideally, is that no classification of the fraternities will be possible; diversity will ensure that.

Is this how self-selection works in reality? No. In reality, there is something called the “Oral Encouragement” (OE). If you
do not receive an OE from a particular house, you are not supposed to pursue membership with that “frat.” In
this case, the brothers have decided that you are not going to be a member. Now, although they may not
tell you directly, you are no longer being considered. The warning signs are evident when you are no longer invited
down to dinner, when they stop talking to you, when you cannot get a beer from a brother at a
party. If you still want to join, you can sign up for that fraternity under the rules of self-selection; this
is called “shotgunning.” When was the last time anyone did this? And even if someone did, when was the last
time anyone became whole-heartedly accepted into a “frat” after shotgunning? The message is clear. At Davidson, like everywhere else, you
do not select a fraternity; it selects you. The term, “self-selection,” is, in reality, a contradiction.

The fraternity at Davidson, therefore, is a closed group of chosen individuals, not open to those who come from a
different mold, but only to those who can be fit into the mold of the house. The best evidence I
can find around campus documenting the “closed” nature of fraternities comes from the lack of blacks and international students in
those organizations. Proportionally, these two minorities are practically non-existent within the system. Why is this so? A legitimate argument can
be made for blacks. At Davidson, unfortunately, blacks make up a disproportionate percentage of the athletes on campus. Intercollegiate sports
combined with a demanding workload take a great deal of time. Because of this, black athletes cannot make the commitment
necessary to be in a “frat.” But even this argument does not seem to hold up under scrutiny. How many
white athletes belong to fraternities? Plenty. Then what is the real reason that black membership in fraternities is proportionally low?

How about international students? Coming from vastly different backgrounds, they are probably the most diverse group on campus. In this
small, southern, liberal arts college, I would think that these unique individuals might be a great source of interest to
most American students, including those in fraternities. But the truth is that hardly any international students do join fraternities. They,
for the most part, remain Independents. The question still remains -- Why don’t blacks and international students join fraternities in
the same proportions as white, American students do? Is it because the fraternities actively seek to keep them out of
“frats?” I don’t believe this is the case. I find it difficult to find an exact reason, but something in
my gut says that, if fraternities are not responsible themselves, it still has something to do with the nature of
the fraternity system. This “closed” nature is the same one that makes the process of “self-selection” a mockery.

At Davidson, it’s obvious that fraternities help divide the campus into narrow groups. The selectivity of the fraternity tends to
group people of similar backgrounds together. The majority of students joining them are white, they are of the upper-middle/lower-upper class,
they have always lived very sheltered lives, most have always associated with people of similar backgrounds. Not only are these
groups narrow, but they appear also to stagnate. In these organizations I see an apathy, a lack of growth, an
acceptance of the status quo. Obviously, the closed system is content with itself and has no need to incorporate blacks
or international students. The “frats” may not actively discriminate against them, but they do not pursue them either.

Narrow in membership, fraternities offer a very narrow means of social life as well. At Davidson, this means alcohol. The
strength of the fraternity system has drawn many members into this kind of social life. Outside of class, some do
not participate in much else besides fraternity activities (i.e. drinking). With most fraternity social functions open to everyone, even those
who do not belong get drawn into this narrow existence. Anyone who tells you that fraternities are justified by performing
public services is sorely mistaken. Fraternity charity is simply a public relations ploy, a means of gaining the administration’sand community’s
stamp of approval. Were the “frats” really interested in charity for charity’s sake, there would be more than one such
function a term. There is no altruistic motive in “frat-charity,” but the need to do at least one positive thing
once in a while in order to uphold the “good for the community” image. In recent years, Davidson students have
seen student diversity in activities drop. The YSSC is experiencing hard times. The Union cries out for people to sign
up for positions in many different areas. The students have lost WDAYV. Have the fraternities taken away our urge to
do anything besides drink? No, not exactly. I believe that they have, at least, taken a great deal of time
away from a great number of people and helped make “frat rats” out of many members. They conform people into
their own image and thus limit them from pursuing interests outside the “frat.” How can we combat this student apathy?
What alternatives are there? How can we open up our minds as a student body? How can we eliminate the
narrow view and instead pursue growth, diversity, and fun at the same time? I propose that a social system based
upon a greatly expanded Union could help along with the discontinuation of fraternities. It would inspire an organic student body,
not a divided one. Each participant in the Union would certainly have their own small group around which they would
center their activities, the Pop Films committee for example, but the overall purpose of everyone would be to provide Davidson
with a more varied social life. Moreover, these small Union groups would not tend to mold their members into one,
classifiable clique. Not only would this help groups from becoming narrowly focused, it would provide a wider variety of activities
from which to choose. Instead of going to either a party at Sigma Phi Epsilon or one at Sigma Alpha
Epsilon, the Union would have a greater list of social options -- a movie in Love, a concert in the
900 Room, a pool tournament in the game room, an overnight camping trip, cards and beer in a “pub room,”
etc. Many alternatives to Patterson Court already exist but are clouded by fraternity strength. Without “frats” the number of social
alternatives that the Union could provide would increase as interest in the Union would be augmented. I realize that this
is just an introduction to any such proposal, but I have already written too much. If you have read this
much, you might as well finish it; I am almost done.

Any thorough examination of the Davidson fraternity system and possible alternatives would have to come to grips with the alcohol
issue. A Union-based social system would encourage less drinking, but I do not know if Davidson students can ever accept
that. Let me just say that less drinking would not be a bad thing. Writing this was much more difficult
than I had imagined. What I had intended to be a perfectly airtight, logical argument against fraternities is instead, an
emotional, somewhat disorganized collage of impressions. Nonetheless, I believe I have made many valid points. I apologize for not coming
across more clearly. I feel that at times this article seems more like a treatise on how to live life
rather than an address directed against fraternities. But if you would allow one short comment on life and its relationship
to “frats,” I will conclude with it. I wish that we all had more open minds -- I may be
more guilty than anyone. Most of us have so little experience with anything real that we live without ever realizing
it. Davidson is small and isolated from society at large. In this sense, it is unreal. How can we make
it more real? What students should do is try to grow in every direction; this includes meeting and making friends
with blacks and international students. It also includes the expansion of one’s social activities beyond alcohol. Davidson is, or should
be, a place to get a “total education.” “Frats” may not affect our academic education, but they do harm our
social education. For this reason, they ought to be abolished.

Ken Bogert is a senior History major from Ho-Ho-Kus, New Jersey.

Policy: little changed, Davidson not divested
Kevin Dunn

Last May, The Davidson Board of Trustees adopted a new investment policy with emphasis on the college’s investments in companies
with branches in South Africa. This new policy was incorrectly assumed by most to mean that Davidson College was divesting
itself of the companies that were in question. The Davidsonian even ran the headline “Trustees Decide on Divestment” after the
May decision. Last week it was once again incorrectly asserted that the college’s “divestment” was due to student pressure. Though
the actual effect of student protest can be debated, it should be made clear that Davidson College did not divest,
nor did they even come close. The Trustees’ investment policy before last May centered around Rev. Sullivan’s “Seven Investment Principles.”
The theory behind these principles was that companies following them would be creating a better environment for their black employees,
while working to end the racist system of apartheid. Before last May, Davidson College only invested in those companies that
subscribed to the Sullivan Principles. This amounted to the college having investments in 81 such companies, with a market value
of $22,598,673.00 as of August 31, 1986. The new investment policy adopted in May, in fact, changes very little. The
policy still centers around the now defunct Sullivan Principles (Rev. Sullivan is now calling for complete withdrawal). Now, however, the
College will only invest in those companies who are judged by Arthur D. Little and Associates (an organization which rates
companies’ compliance to the Sullivan Principles) to be “making progress” or better.

The question of investment in regard to South Africa is a difficult one indeed. It is a problem which should
be constantly examined and reexamined. Most important of all, the facts should be known. Davidson College has not divested. Under
the new policy, the college has sold its stocks in only one minor company. Investment in apartheid still continues at
Davidson College.

Kevin Dunn is a junior political science major from Jacksonville, Florida.
