4 Kuykendall reports year’s events to Trustees

REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

May 1, 1987

The pressure of the schedule for our plenary session on the morning of Friday, May 1, has indicated that it
would be better for me to circulate this President's Report in written form prior to this meeting of the Board
of Trustees. With the exception of a few brief comments and necessary updates on matters of special interest, I will
try to limit my report on recent matters of significance to the following pages.

Admissions:
On April 1, a total of 605 letters of acceptance were mailed to successful applicants for the Class of 1991.
This group was drawn from a total application pool of 2,013, of whom 1,206 were male and 807 were female.
You will be interested to know that as compared with this overall acceptance rate of 30%, almost exactly 50% of
candidates who listed relatives who are alumni were accepted. (While this does not represent sufficient evidence to validate certain theories
concerning genetic superiority, it does indicate that Davidson alumni are giving proper encouragement to their brighter kin folks to consider
their alma mater!) It is still too early to provide any realistic estimate of what the yield from the first
group of acceptances will be, though we may be able to give you a progress report on May 1. As
has been the case in recent years, we have a very talented group of young people who have been placed
on the waiting list, and we are optimistic about the make-up of the group of 350 young people who will
comprise the Class of 1991.

It never hurts to remind ourselves of the incredible effort that goes into the recruitment and selection of each new
class of Davidson students. In the course of this past year, six staff members traveled the equivalent of 174 days
in 29 states between September 15 and December 15, and the Spring schedule for travel has included an additional 25
days of programming in 15 states. Beyond the work of our own staff, we are deeply indebted to over 200
alumni/alumnae who have worked in the 25 cities with full DAAP Teams and in a number of other areas with
liaison groups or in individual efforts. This approach to admissions continues to be a significant and productive aspect of Davidson’s
program.

The search for a successor to Jim Hendrix as Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid has gone extremely well to
this point. It is my hope that it will be possible for me to announce the appointment of the new
Dean either at the meeting on May 1 or shortly thereafter.

Student Life:
At the Spring Meeting of the Board last year, you adopted a new alcohol policy which was necessitated in part
by the change in North Carolina law concerning the legal drinking age. Subsequently, a policy for Patterson Court activities which
was designed to be consistent with the Trustee policy was put into effect. As we come to the end of
the first year under these new regulations, let me give you a brief summary of reactions to date.

Several aspects of the new College policy fostered a better environment: Alcohol has been less visible around the campus; the
900 Room in the College Union has experienced a revival under the leadership of William Brown and his creative staff;
there has been more responsibility shown by student leaders on Patterson Court; and students have apparently not been leaving the
campus in order to drink. Certainly, the most important result seems to have been a highly raised consciousness among our
students about drinking and driving.

Such favorable comments, however, are not intended to convey the impression that there is no underage drinking on the Davidson
campus. There seems not to have been any great change in student patterns in this regard. Those underage students who
wish to drink either buy alcoholic beverages illegally off campus or have drinks given to them by students of legal
age. While the Patterson Court officers have apparently been conscientious in abiding by the letter of their policy, there seems
to have been some “slippage between the cup and the lip” in terms of actual practices at parties on the
Court. We will be giving some thought to the continuing implementation of the policy over the Summer, and will be
prepared to report further on the situation at the Fall Meeting of the Board.

You may recall that this year for the first time we instituted a moratorium for five weeks with respect to
freshman participation in activities on Patterson Court. The plan was controversial at first, but proved to be remarkably successful, especially
from the vantage of our upper-class students. From the faculty’s point of view, there was a noticeable difference in the
academic adjustment of the freshman class over last year’s class. The moratorium did seem to increase both noise and damage
problems on the freshman halls, particularly during the latter part of the period. From this standpoint, it was probably a
week too long.

For next year, the Dean of Students is adopting a somewhat modified plan. Freshmen will not be allowed to attend
events on the Court until October 2, and then only on weekends for the remainder of the Fall Term. Further,
students who do not have a 2.0 average at the end of the Fall Term will not be eligible for
self-selection during Winter Term. We hope that these measures will enable new students to develop better study habits and become
involved in a wider variety of campus activities.

Several other steps are being taken to improve the quality of life for freshmen next year. Freshmen men will be
housed in portions of two resident halls rather than being housed altogether in Belk Dormitory. The male Hall Counselors have
been educated more intensely in their obligation to ensure cleaner and quieter halls, and more stringent measures will be taken
against those who “trash” halls and cause more serious damage. These measures should help educate theNew class more effectively about
the proper care of College property and sensitivity to the rights of others. The new Patterson Court selection policy, which
was described for you in some detail at the Winter Meeting, is now in place. The committee of students charged
with monitoring and enforcing this policy has been established, and Hall Counselors for next year’s freshmen have been briefed on
the policy in preparation for their duties.

I have recently concurred with a recommendation from the Council on Campus and Religious Life with regard to a petition
for admission to Patterson Court by a group of students interested in reconstituting a local chapter of Kappa Sigma fraternity.
These young men have spent the past two years in preparation for “colony” status and will occupy a house on
Patterson Court for a probationary period beginning in September. They have done an admirable job of completing all of the
tasks necessary to make this application and join with the national fraternity in a genuine willingness to observe both the
letter and spirit of the self-selection process. We welcome them to the Patterson Court circle and the larger Davidson community.

Any report on student life this year would be remiss if it did not include a tribute to the special
gathering of leaders in this year’s senior class. As you well know, Mark Sandy has been singularly effective as the
President of the SGA. I have never known a student leader who has commanded the respect of peers, faculty, administration,
and Trustees in quite the same way that Mark has. Much the same can be said for Dan Murrey’s leadership
of the Y Student Service Corps, Michael Holt’s courageous and efficient leadership of the Honor Council, and Lucinda Kellam’s work
with the College Union. The Presidents of the Patterson Court houses, too, are a most impressive group of men and
women, who have done a fine job of managing complicated situations under the able leadership of Fran Houck as Chair
of the Patterson Court Council. The people who are emerging to take over these jobs for next year seem equally
fine. I will look forward to introducing Conrad Doenges, the President of the SGA for next year, at the Meeting
on May 1.

Athletics: We will conclude the athletic year 1986-87 with three men’s teams repeating the feat of twenty-win seasons which they
accomplished in the previous year as well. Our basketball team, as you know, came within an eyelash of another trip
to NCAA post-season play as champions of the Southern Conference Tournament. While there was some initial disappointment, the dominant sentiment
both among the members of the team and the rest of us is that the season was very gratifying. Our
baseball and men’s tennis teams are now past the twenty-win mark, and the remainder of the season holds the possibility
of a better record in baseball than we have ever experienced before. Our women’s tennis team, after last year’s difficult
decision to upgrade to Division I competition, has risen to the challenge in marvelous fashion. They have entered the Conference
Tournament fresh on the heels of a remarkable victory over the University of Tennessee — Chattanooga team, which was last
year’s Conference champion. Thus, for several of our teams, it has been a most satisfying year.

Kit Morris and I continue to work on the project of finding a proper conference home for Davidson for 1988-89
and thereafter. My personal conversations with Colonial Athletic Association presidents thus far have been moderately encouraging, and Kit’s work with
the Athletic Directors has also served to build a good foundation for a probable future application for membership. We appreciate
the efforts of several members of the Board who have given us responses to the recent inquiry, and will likely
be in touch with you as the plans for our campaign develop.

Institutional Advancement: As you will see by the schedule for the Spring Meeting, our plenary session on late Friday afternoon
is given over to our continuing work in preparation for the major campaign scheduled to begin in 1988. The Board
will be participating in the sort of “focus group meeting” which will be replicated in more than a dozen locales
around the country during the next few months. This is an essential component in the feasibility study which will eventually
yield the case statement and proposed goal which we hope to present to you at the October Meeting.

I have received a thorough and thoughtful report from a study committee on radio station WDAV which was chaired by
Trustee Ross Smyth. That report, together with my recommendations for implementation, will come to the Board for your consideration through
the Institutional Advancement Committee. WDAV continues to be a major agent of goodwill for the College in many homes in
Charlotte and elsewhere, and it is certainly timely to give some thought to its future at this juncture of its
life.

The Institutional Advancement Committee will also be receiving a draft of the proposal we intend to submit to the Olin
Foundation, requesting funding for a new facility to house our growing programs in biology and psychology. The Olin Foundation, as
you may know, chooses a handful of schools each year, to which it gives all of the funding necessary to
construct and equip facilities which will be essential parts of the academic process. No school in North Carolina has ever
been successful in application for an Olin grant, and we would like for Davidson to be the first.

Finance and Personnel: Ralph Holt and the members of the Finance and Budget Committee have been at work since your
Fall Meeting with the advisory group comprised of students, faculty members, and administrators, in a thorough review of the Board’s
policy with respect to investment in corporations doing business in South Africa. The draft of their proposed revision is included
in this packet for your information. The Finance and Budget Committee will be prepared to make some recommendation to you
with regard to this matter.

Continued to page 6
