Robert Nesbit

Senior Ace Tanner doing what he does best against The Citadel

By PERRY MATHEWES

Senior forward Ace Tanner scored on a drive to the basket to open the scoring after 40 seconds of play
in the Appalachian State game Jan. 17, and Davidson has not trailed since.

The Cats flattened the Mountaineers of Appalachian State 82-59 Jan. 17, sank the East Tennessee State Buccaneers 106-65 on Jan.
19, and whipped the Bulldogs of The Citadel 86-68 last Saturday night to extend their winning streak to five.

Their conference record now stands at 5-1 and their overall record is 10-6.

Appalachian stayed close for five minutes until junior forward Jeff Himes converted a three-point play to open up a five-point
lead. The Cats never looked back after that.

A minute later, Tanner fed junior guard Derek Rucker an outlet pass for a fast-break jam to give the Cats
a seven-point lead. The noisy crowd did not have to wait long before they got to see an Ace dunk
as Tanner drove in for a slam of his own.

Davidson gradually extended the lead mainly behind the scoring of Himes and Rucker, who had 11 and 13 points respectively.
Junior center Mike Gynn also came off the bench effectively as he scored six and pulled down four rebounds. The
Cats ended the first half with a comfortable lead of 40-22.

Appalachian came out hot in the second half, scoring nine straight points before Davidson responded when senior guard Chris Heineman
hit a jumper. After a Himes dunk and a Rucker three-pointer, the Cats again took off. Davidson extended its lead
to 22 when Rucker went to the boards for a score at the 8:24 mark. Davidson then cruised to the
victory.

The leading rebounder was Himes with 10 boards and 21 points. Heineman had 14 points and Rucker was the game’s
high scorer with 22.

The victory over Appalachian turned out to be just a warm-up for the pounding the Cats gave East Tennessee State.
Freshman center Jay Schmitt opened the scoring with a basket and the Bucs were never that close again. The Cats
led 7-0 before ETSU could even get on the board. A hot Davidson team easily pulled away as they dominated
the game at both ends.

At the 15:43 mark, Himes made a long inbounds pass to Tanner who streaked down and executed a behind-the-head dunk
that sent the crowd into a frenzy. Davidson led by 18-5.

Excellent play kept the crowd entertained to the next dunk, when Rucker stole the ball and drove for the slam.
Minutes later, Gynn gave Tanner a perfect pass for the alley-oop dunk and gave Davidson a 41-17 lead. Davidson kept
on increasing the lead and went into the locker room at the half after doubling the Bucs’ score 54-27.

After several minutes of play, coach Bobby Hussey let his starters have a well-deserved rest and provided everyone a look
at the younger talent on the team. Everyone performed well as Davidson still dominated a wearied ETSU.

The Cats almost doubled the score again when they led 89-45. With 2:15 to play, Davidson hit the century mark
when freshman guard Edward “Magic” Gaines popped one in off of an Alan “Sweet Pea” Hunter assist to give the
Cats a 100-57 lead.

Rucker led all players in scoring for the half with 17.

The second half followed the same pattern, the major attraction keeping the fans on their feet was the question of
whether the Cats could score over 100 points.

Everyone played well. Rucker led the scoring with 22 points in 25 minutes of play. Heineman, Himes, and Tanner all
had 12 apiece. Gaines and junior guard Dean Keener came off the bench to pour in 12 and 9 points
respectively. Schmitt had a very productive night with nine points, four rebounds, and overall good play under the basket.

The Citadel game opened with a Tanner jam that set the tone for the game. The Cats shot out to
a 13-point lead behind a hot Heineman as he hit two three-pointers, converted a three-point play, and added an extra
basket. The Citadel finally started to pick up their play and kept Davidson from running away with the game.

Late in the first half, the Cats had another scoring spurt led by Himes and Heineman. Tanner ended the first
half with another resounding dunk on a Heineman assist and the Cats had their biggest lead of the half at
18, 51-33.

Early in the second half, The Citadel scored eight straight points to cut the lead to 12. Rucker finally got
on the board as he scored five straight points in response. A few minutes later, Tanner was brutally fouled and
junior Todd Scott converted the free throws for the injured Tanner to give the Cats a 21-point lead, 69-48.

Again the Bulldogs cut the lead, this time to 11 points. Again the Cats came back to extend their lead
to 23 when Himes jammed at the 1:27 mark to make the score 86-63. From there, Davidson coasted to victory.

Heineman was the high scorer for the night with 25 as he went five of seven from beyond the three-point
line. Himes scored 24 points and had six rebounds and Rucker, who did not score until the second half, ended
up with 13.

Davidson traveled to Furman last night, hosts Western Carolina Thursday night, travels to VMI Saturday, and to Marshall Feb. 2.
