---

Friday, February 6, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Scholar speaks on broad scale of modern China

By MARIA DOUGLAS

Dr. Lieberthal, one of the top experts on China, is a Ford Lecturer and the Director of the Center for Chinese Studies at the University of Michigan.

Lieberthal began his lecture with the reasons Chinese affairs need reform. Deng Xiao Ping, after the 1976 death of Mao Zedong, became leader of a country whose society was in shambles, had fallen behind the rest of Asia in many areas, and was under an ever-increasing threat from the Soviets. There was a pressing need for change.

Lieberthal said the largest concern of some Chinese in light of the need for reform was for China and Chinese values to be protected from outsiders. This concern led to a debate on what the nature of political change should be. One position was that China be united, retaining their values and ignoring the possibility of technological advancement if necessary. Another position was to borrow technology from abroad in order to catch up but still retain Chinese values. The radical position was to do anything necessary to mold China into a technologically dynamic society.

Lieberthal said Deng, in his effort to turn China around, formed three objectives: eliminate the bureaucratic hierarchy, encourage individual initiative and talent, and open China to the outside world to stimulate the economy. These efforts were embodied in social, economic, and political reforms.

Socially, Deng’s reforms needed to strip the bureaucracy of the excess leaders, while hoping to foster initiative in Chinese workers. From 1964 to 1976, Chinese workers did not receive a wage increase and were paid whether they went to work or not. Lieberthal said that from a Western perspective, the reforms seemed reasonable; but, in reality, they haven’t worked.

Economically, the area of agriculture experienced an enormous growth period. According to Lieberthal, China experienced a five-year period of unusually good weather. Because 80 percent of the population are peasant farmers, alienated from the planned economy and inclusion in the international market, the economy exploded.

Politically, China faced problems. Deng took on the task of rehabilitating the old leaders left over from Mao’s rule. The reforms seriously upset bureaucratic relationships so they are rendered ineffective. Four main bureaucracies make up Chinese government: economic, propaganda, security, and the Communist Party. The reforms resulted in a loss of power for propaganda, security, and the Communist Party.

Lieberthal said another problem was the reforms were undercutting each other. Because of China’s staggering population, their stringent birth control laws have pushed the birth rate down to three-and-one-half births every 10 seconds. However, with the increased need to work on the farms, this has created additional challenges.

Lieberthal contends that China’s future can take one of four roads. The reforms could get out of hand and result in a corrupt political machine controlling the market. Reforms could work for the market system with the Communist Party controlling but from a distance, providing the framework within which the market could operate. The reforms could stagnate. Or they could induce chaos. Rapid industrial development would result in 200 million people needing jobs within 10 to 15 years.

Lieberthal predicts a Soviet-type state for the remainder of the '80s and a major upsurge in the market economy for the '90s.

The Davidsonian needs YOU!!!

Openings for all areas: News, Features, Sports, Opinions, Production, and Circulation.

If you’re here at Davidson, you can write for us.

Don’t be shy—just contact Mark Chen (Watts 404) or the section editors.

---