Charlotte’s dubious sports image, page 5

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXVIII, Number 6

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, October 16, 1987.

New grocery store to be built in College Union Cafe

New facility will fill the gap left by Food Lion’s closing

By TRIPP HELMS

Grocery shopping will soon be as easy as going to the College Union Cafe, according to Carleton Pritchard, Director of
Auxiliary Services.

Davidson’s only grocery store, the Food Lion at Sadler Square, is scheduled to close November 1, when a new Food
Lion store opens in nearby Cornelius. For students who shop at the Sadler Square store, this closing creates a need
for a new place to shop for groceries that is within walking distance of the college. It is this need
that the new Union Cafe is being designed to fill, says Pritchard.

Preliminary drawings of the project have been done by the Davidson Food Services staff. The changes in the current setup
will include the addition of grocery items and a delicatessen.

The area will be reworked so that the door from the side of the Union will open into a hall
that goes into the seating area. A partition will create an area that houses the grocery items and the new
delicatessen along with the hot snack counter already in place. Other additions include an ice cream and yogurt freezer and
a microwave oven.

Pritchard emphasizes that the seating will not be reduced by the changes. Instead, a room and wall will be removed
and replaced with seating area. He also plans to “use seating space more efficiently” by putting tables against a now
empty wall.

He predicts that traffic in the Union Cafe will double or triple because of the added services. Bob Boyd, class
of ’88, conducted a student survey for Pritchard to determine what products students want the new store to carry. Over
500 students responded to the survey.

According to the survey results, the most desired products are apples and bagels. Other products high on the list include
potato chips, peanut butter, milk, crackers, iced tea mix, Pop Tarts, deli meats, and aspirin. The top four food categories
chosen by students are fresh fruits, microwave products, cheese, and soft drinks.

Construction of the new cafe will be handled by the college and by Barger Construction of Mooresville. Work will begin
on November 2, and should be completed on November 13. New equipment will arrive beginning on November 16. Pritchard targets
the grand opening of the new facility for November 30, the day students return from Thanksgiving break.

Emphasizing that it is only an estimate, Pritchard predicts that the cost of remodeling will fall between $25,000 and $30,000.
He hopes that the project will be paid for by the first two years of operation.

Prices of grocery items will be “competitive with Cashion’s and Food Lion,” promises Pritchard. Although students will not be able
to purchase grocery items with their meal cards, Pritchard says that such an arrangement “is a possibility for the future.”
Pritchard has met with the Union Board, the Union Planning Committee, and the administration, and all have “heartily endorsed” the
plan. With preparations made and the work ready to begin, Pritchard says, “I’m as excited as the dickens about it.”

Davidson purchases new VAX system

By TOBY TRUOG

Over the summer, Davidson College installed a new central computer system, the DEC VAX. It replaced the old PRIME computer
which has been in use since 1981.

The DEC VAX, which cost over half a million dollars, was secured by Computer Services Director John Casey through his
negotiations with the Digital Equipment Company (DEC). The purchase is part of a 5-year plan for the Davidson computer center.

According to academic programmer Elizabeth Rigby, “the PRIME system was bought in 1981. That’s a long time to have one
system. The new VAX is approximately four times faster than the PRIME and it allows for more overall communication.”

In order to provide a smooth transfer of accounts to the DEC VAX, the PRIME system will still be used
during the fall term. Currently, all faculty and students have accounts on both systems. Furthermore, a number of packages and
programs, such as the two statistics programs SPSS and SASS, can be used on both systems.

One of the main advantages of the VAX is that it greatly expands available software options.

“We will now have access to programs that do many of the things that people here are interested in doing.
Davidson College will be in the mainstream of academic software,” noted Assistant Director of Academic Computing John Savarese.

The VAX system is currently one of the more popular central computing systems among liberal arts colleges.
