Friday, May 8, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN 23

Pauline Rhodes
Mary K. Edmonds
Carolyn Neale
Joe Louderback
George Howe
Boyd Gillespie
Michael R. Ladd
John C. Lantis
John Freer
Jose Gonzalez
Benjamin Brown
Katherine Price
Pete Wright
Aaron M. Edwards
Sheryl G. Bordon
Becky Benton
Rufus Timberlake
Todd Strawser
Fletcher Fairey
Carter Garrett
Andy Ball
Jim Walker, III
Huntley Bossong
Cecily Van Praagh
Michael S. Friedlander
Julie Lehman
Tyler Stone
John Eckbert
Mike Cowan
Bilal El Amine
William Bray
Shannon Mullen
Jeffrey T. Batten
Lisa Clark
Charley Winborne
Anne Winn
Elizabeth Bowers
Susan B. Roberson
Khaled Al-Koor
Kim P. White
Robert C. Kemerait
Sloan McAlister
Geoffry F. Strouse
Gregory R. Smouse
John L. Odom
Mark Chen
Mark D. Swift
Dave Cors
Gordon Watkins
William A. Bugg
Shyam Karki
Daniel Grau
David Ordoubadian
Paul Renner
Tim Poston
Glenn Hoyle
Dean Keener
Sheley Revis
Mike Gross
Susan M. Park
Arlene Bach
Howard B. Moyes
Andy Clark
Anne E. Caughey
Andy Clark
David B. Roberson
Meitra E. Khazaeli
Michael DeTure
Todd Wallenius
William C. Beckwith
Leanne Steele
Craig Normand
Sarah Payne
John David Ramsey
Ellen Hardin
Christine Curtin
R. Carter Grine
Hannah Harrell
Don James
Dudley Bell
J. McCrorey
Judith Wall
Julia C. Cardwell
Mary H. Frasche
Charles Wittman
Julian Wright
Clisby L. Hall
Cristin Williams
Gregory Keith
Stephen Ott
Scott McDuffie
Elizabeth Whitaker
Kathleen H. Caldwell
Jeffrey Smith
Julie Zimmermann
Cindy Fair
Charles Jordan
Catherine M. Tuite
April D. Loving
Alan Dabbs
Margaret E. Brown
Kat Huster
Benjamin Allen Yarborough
Susan A. Austin
Edgar Gamponia
Charles Chitty
Chris Hughes
Barbara Matheny
Alison B. Rose
Christie Johnson
B. Michael Makonnen
Mary Webber
Jackie Daughtry
Michael C. Gynn
Laura Annunziata
Allie M. Baldwin
Tony M. Wright
Susan Evans
Sheri A. Reynolds
Tom Stephens
Amy L. McNelis
James A. Marchewka
Robinson M. Norman
Suzanne Regen
Valerie Graves
Bryan Andrew Feigenbaum
Emmie Cunningham
F. Bryan Kirtley
Fred Higgins
Dean Williams
George O. White, III
Kimberly L. Clayton
Torrey Hyatt
Laura L. Kline
Latessa A. Smith
William M. Sellers
Scott Stevens
Gretchen Schoel
Jennifer Payne
Cheryl L. Connor
James S. Flaniken
John M. Stewart
Christopher P. Sullivan
Alexander S. Maultsby
Whit Wilks
Ray Boyet
A.J. Morgan
John S. Kang
Judy Moore
Chris Heineman
Bennett S. Cardwell
Tim Jacks
John T. Lay
Joanna Lay
Ann B. Spires
Cal Sharp
Stewart Vaughn
Tim Heinze
David Blalock
Laura Fannin
Jon Powell
Steve Burgoon
Joe Moss
Mark Barrow
Sam Cutting
Dave Handy
Kenneth Bogert
Jay Schmitt
Laure Van Dierdonck
John Young
Greg Wilcox
John T. Townsend
John Timothy Sparks
Delia Welton
Walt Reynolds
S. Elizabeth Drummond
Virginia B. Broaddus
John Scherer
R. W. Cloudt
Laurel Gladden
Emily P. Bond
John Banew
Tracy L. Simpson
Paul G. Papadopoulos
Mi W. Dawson
Ellen R. Voss
Michael Poulos
Kristin S. Galloway
Shannon O’Shields
Lloyd W. Chapin, II
Molly Rogers
Biff Harshbarger
Ellen Morrissey
Sheryl Aikman
John Edward Fitzgerald, IV
Belton C. Myers, Jr.
Deepak Talwar
Nelson Fredsell, III
Jason Hillen
Katherine Kraemer
Randy Booker

Continued from page 14

“There’s a lot of him in you,” she said later, when I pulled her into the relative safety of my old bedroom and shut the door.

“How can you say that?” I wanted to know. “When you know how much I hate him, how can you say that to me?”

“Some of him in you then,” she amended, completely unperturbed, and took a seat on the double bed. He’d even changed the bed. I’d had a single.

“What are you afraid of, Tab?”

“What do you mean?” I asked, not really wanting to know what she meant. I sat down next to her and put my arms around her waist. Why had I ever brought her here?

“I know you love him.”

“What? Susan!” I rolled my eyes in exasperation, even as some malicious little gnome in my mind took her statement and examined it under some gnomish magnifying glass.

“Don’t lie, Tab. Just be quiet for a minute. If you really hated him so much, would you care whether or not he hated you?”

“No, Susan,” I said quietly, wearily. “I wouldn’t care at all.” In a way, I felt inestimable relief. It seemed a terribly deep, dark secret made simple. In another way, I felt violated. It was an itchy relief at best, still incomplete.

“Here. Look.” I fished for my ring of keys and went to the large desk in the room. “This is the only damn thing in the room that looks the same. Ellen told Dad she wanted a drawer in the house for... feminine stuff. He thinks she has the key.” As I opened the drawer, I wondered if it would cure my feeling of violation or only multiply it and make it completely irreversible.

She came and knelt silently beside me as I sifted through the stuff. There was a package of pictures, a bunch of birthday cards, a baseball glove, some tennis balls that had seen better days, a razor. She picked that up first.

“Dad’s,” I said. “My first. He gave it to me when I was eight.”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

and there wasn't even anything to shave. I cut my chin just like Dad.” The baseball glove was obvious, and her fingers passed over it to rub the rough surface of the tennis balls. “Sam's.” I shuffled through the pictures until I found one of my dog. It seemed to be someone else with him. The gangly brace-face in the photo looked a lot less familiar than the intelligent-looking black lab. “Dad gave me Sam, too. I was nine or ten.” “You have a picture of him in your wallet,” she remembered. “Uh huh. Fantastic proof. This is my proof drawer.” I pulled the picture of me and Sam and locked the drawer up again. “About time to change pictures, I should think,” I said, tossing it on the desk where I wouldn’t forget it. “TV?” Dad was in his bedroom. I wasn’t sure if he was playing country music on the stereo because he thought I hated it or just to drown out any chance of our hearing the TV. I got up and shut the door. Fifteen minutes later the fire alarm in the hall went off. The picture of me and Sam was burning in the sink in my bathroom. Susan just gasped. I stormed into his room with the charred remnants and threw them onto his bed. “Why in the name of God did you do that!” I shouted. “Why! Why! Why!” “Bad memories,” he said gruffly, and I just stared at him. It was conceivable, but I didn’t want to look at that. All I could see was the total insensitivity. The constant insensitivity. I turned and looked at Susan standing bleakly in the doorway. “Go out to the car,” I said. “We're leaving. Now.” I took the rest of the contents of the drawer with me. I don’t know why I didn't throw them out, though I was sure Susan would have a theory. “Bad memories about what?” she asked as I turned onto the back road that would take us out to the highway. I had to give her credit for courage. Not many people would have even brought it up again. I looked at her, but couldn’t see her face in the darkness. I was feeling stubborn, and so I didn’t see the sympathy, just as I didn’t see the dog. It was a small white streak that came from nowhere and was suddenly in front of the car. I think we both screamed. For all the good it did us. The sickening thump broke something in me, and I was crying before I even got out of the car. But I wasn't seeing the dog I had hit, some strange dog, belonging to some unknown people. I was seeing Sam. I was seeing my father carrying Sam's broken body, Sam's blood on his shirt, his face the same stern lines. He wasn’t crying. He wasn't crying like I was now. Crying for some strange dog in the road. Crying for Sam. I knew. I had known all along, but not as I knew now. Susan’s arms went around my waist, and she turned her face against my neck. “You couldn't help it,” she whispered. “You didn't mean to, Tab. You didn’t mean to.” A part of me was laughing, laughing at the little boy who was suddenly alone in his childhood. “I know,” I answered. I had known all along. “But Dad did.” Would he defend him to me? Or was he just setting her up for something worse? I served dinner myself, and he made some comment about a woman’s place that had Susan turning red. I had never been able to decide if Mom's death had made him more bitter, or if it was just that he was now free to express himself in any way he pleased. He pinched Susan during grace, and then he winked at me. “Susan,” I was surprised my voice was steady, “would you trade places with me.” “Tab, it’s o-k-k-kay.” “If it was okay, you wouldn't be stuttering. Trade places.” I could have hit him for bringing that out of me. He knew he had. He knew he’d hurt her. And he knew he could finally get to me. Every time I opened my mouth, he scored a point. “Damn you,” I said, and if she could have read my mind, she would have had an apology in the same sentence. I cursed any part of myself that even sounded like him. But she couldn’t read my mind, and there was reproach in her eyes as we switched seats. Dad was gloating. “Can’t help it if she's a pretty piece.” “And I can’t help it if you’re a -” I stopped myself. I couldn’t use the usual defenses. I couldn’t fight fire with fire because Susan was getting burnt. I’m not like him, I told myself severely. She can’t possibly ever think I am. But I would have to keep my mouth shut. I made that pact with myself too late, though. I was already caught.