8: X-country finishes ninth
By BILL SMITH

Davidson’s squad of cross-country runners traveled to Raleigh last week for the North Carolina Intercollegiate State Cross-country Championships. Both teams ran well with the women finishing third and the men finishing ninth. The courses were a combination of wooded and great trails with a few open sections. Nevertheless, the times were good as eighteen of our runners ran their fastest times for the season. This is promising for Coach Andrew since the conference championships are just two weeks away.

In the women’s race, homestanding North Carolina State breezed to the title with a perfect score of fifteen points. They were led by Janet Smith, who conquered the five-kilometer course with a time of seventeen minutes, twenty-six seconds. Brevard squeezed between Davidson’s ninety-nine points and State’s fifteen points with sixty-five points to wrap up second place. Five other teams figured in the scoring. Davidson was again led by sophomore Missy Willis who tied her season-best time of nineteen minutes, nine seconds and placed eighth overall. Following her was a pack of seniors led by Laura Fannin. Fannin ran a 20:23 to finish seventeenth; Debbie Niles and Kappa Peddy pushed each other and finished three seconds apart with times of 20:40 for twentieth place and 20:43 for twenty-second place; and the team captain, Karen Kemerait, ran a 21:50 to place in the thirty-second slot. The women have been progressing all season long as their drops in time have shown, and they should be ready for the championships on October 31st. Give them your support next weekend.

Ten teams were represented in the men’s race, giving the runners plenty of quality competition and the opportunity to show their talents. Pat Piper of North Carolina State gave the best effort as he raced to a winning time of twenty-four minutes and thirty-five seconds. With Smith and Piper leading the way, State declared themselves the best cross-country squad in the state of North Carolina by taking both the men’s and women’s team titles. Following State’s twenty-seven points were Brevard with fifty-two for second place and Campbell with 154 for third place. Davidson finished a distant ninth with 278 points. Our top five runners virtually ran together — only twenty-nine seconds separated the leader and the fifth man. Chris Fisher, who seems to be hitting his stride now, led the pack with a time of twenty-seven minutes, forty-two seconds — his best this season — and placed fiftieth overall. Steve Childs followed in 52nd place with a 27:55, his season’s best; Bill Breidenstein also ran his best, a 28:04, which put him in 57th place; Jay Clugston was only three seconds and a place behind; and finally Bob Cornish ran fifth with a time of 28:11 for 61st place. Seven other runners ran their best times as well, therefore, this week’s team time trials could be a close battle for positions in next weekend’s conference championships.

The Southern Conference championships will be held here on Davidson’s course, and it promises to be an exciting event.

Friday, October 23.1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Field hockey ties, wins, loses.

By LARRY BAGENSTET JR.

The Davidson field hockey team brought its record to 3-7-1 Tuesday after battling Pfeiffer College to a scoreless tie in double overtime. The Wildcats were forced to play defense almost the entire game. Pfeiffer hammered Davidson with 23 shots on goal in the first half and 19 in the second. Goalie Alison Chapman did a superb job by mounting 26 saves for the afternoon. The ’Cats continued to play strong defense through both overtimes and even had the ball in the Pfeiffer circle with 30 seconds remaining in the second OT. Unfortunately, time ran out and both sides had to settle for a draw. After losing to Pfeiffer on October 3 and in preseason, the ’Cats welcomed a tie over a loss.

Last weekend Davidson traveled to Sewanee, Tennessee, for games with the University of the South, Franklin College, and the Blue Grass Club team. Saturday, the University of the South topped Davidson 2-0 in overtime. The first half was very defensive for the ’Cats, who shot only twice. They got 11 shots in the second half, including 9 corner hits, but failed to score. In overtime, Sewanee scored both goals in three minutes. Coach Pryor said, “We missed some basic moves and the second goal went right under our sticks. It was a lack of concentration.”

Later that day, Suzanne Mauze ’89 scored two goals. Cooke assisted on three to lead Davidson to a 4-0 victory over Franklin College. Also scoring for the ’Cats were Janet Bitter and Marta Bukowski. Davidson was very strong on offense as they outshot Franklin 43-9. “Unlike the Sewanee game, we played with a lot of confidence and were very settled,” said Coach Pryor. Pryor was also pleased that the Wildcats did not let up against a weaker team but played to their own ability.

The Blue Grass Club, a team of ex-college stars, topped Davidson 4-2 in a scrimmage. As usual, the ’Cats hung tough throughout the game. They got 28 shots on goal and seemed “much improved,” according to Coach Pryor. Scorers were Suzanne Mauze and Gigi Cooke, who scored a one-on-one goal in the first half. The loss did not go on Davidson’s record.

Davidson has one more regular season game before the Deep South tournament. The Wildcats face High Point College this Saturday at 11:00 on the hockey field in their final home game.

PIScA
“Let us be your connection to great Pizza!"
892-9046

After 9 p.m. SPECIAL
Monday - Thursday
12 in. with 3 toppings - $6.50
16 in. with 3 toppings - $7.75
- not including extra cheese -
Mon. - Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.
Sun. 4:30 - 11:00
Delivering to Davidson College Free

VILLAGE TRAVEL
TRAVEL AGENTS TAKE THE WORRY OUT OF TRAVEL AND IT DOESN'T COST YOU A PENNY!
Reservations For:
- Tours
- Hotels
- Car Rentals
- Airline
- Amtrak
- Cruises
FOR BUSINESS OR PLEASURE
704/892-9020
SOUTH MAIN ST. - DAVIDSON
(Behind Frame Gallery)

CAROLINA UNITED BANK
Downtown Davidson
MON—THURS. 9-5, Fri. 9-6