14— THE DAVIDSONIAN

Keith Finch, Mark Chen, Editors
John Barrow, News Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Jon Boles, Tom Moore, Associate Editors
Ray Thornton, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Jim Dillon, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Suzanne Craymer, Jennifer Hoffman, Features Editors
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager
Lynda Korfman, Production Editor
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus

Honor and trust

In recent weeks, the campus has been flooded with rumors concerning the possible elimination of self-scheduled examinations. It appears that
many faculty members have long been somewhat skeptical of self-scheduling, and now two or three flagrant violations have led them
to conclude that the practice should be eliminated altogether. A recent edition of “The Dean’s Outbasket” outlined the recent problems
and summarized the faculty’s concerns: “The problem is that the symbol [of the Honor Code, self-scheduled exams,] is being tarnished
and will eventually destroy the Honor System if the tarnishing persists.”

It is unfortunate that so many members of the faculty and the administration have decided that we can only solve
the Honor System’s problems through the elimination of self-scheduled exams. For despite their noble intentions, those who oppose self-scheduling are
pursuing a policy which merely camouflages our Honor System’s problems without attempting to resolve them. The elimination of self-scheduled exams
may seem like an easy way to stop cheating, but it represents an attitude which threatens to destroy faculty-student trust,
encourage dishonesty, and turn all our ruminations about “honor” into hollow hypocrisy.

There’s an old Russian folktale about a sleigh driver who, when pursued by a pack of wolves, tried to escape
by throwing his passengers out one after another. Is Davidson about to make the same mistake? Dishonesty isn’t a benign
tumor that we can exorcise with a single stroke of an administrative scalpel. If those who seek to eliminate self-scheduling
are successful, they will eventually find that they have done nothing to increase the effectiveness of the Honor Code. They
will have only managed to mask the Code’s failings by providing students with one less opportunity to cheat. We can’t
save the Honor System by abandoning all the bits that don’t seem to work very well. We might escape the
wolves, but we’d arrive back in town with an empty sleigh.

The elimination of self-scheduling could even destroy the Honor Code by reducing it to nothing more than a system of
deterrence and punishment. Those who oppose self-scheduled exams see only one solution to the problem of cheating: they want increased
supervision of exam-takers, thereby making dishonesty a practical impossibility. Unfortunately, there is nothing honorable about forced honesty. Without self-scheduled exams
students will no longer have to worry about intangibles like honor and integrity, for the rules will be simple and
clear: if you cheat you will be punished. Davidson won’t be able to convince its students to be honorable; its
emphasis upon punishment will just encourage them to cheat cleverly in order to avoid being caught.

It’s easy to attack cheating by cracking down, limiting student freedom, imposing harsher punishments, or scaring people to death. Lots
of schools give examinations under strictly supervised conditions so that students’ opportunities to cheat are very limited. Still, virtually everyone
cheats whenever they can. Students aren’t expected to be honest, and so they aren’t. Do we really want this to
happen to Davidson?

Here’s a different solution to the problem of cheating: let’s emphasize honor and trust. Instead of relying upon punishment to
discourage dishonesty, Davidson should come up with a decent definition of “honor” and make it the centerpiece of a campaign
to promote adherence to the Code. How does one define “honor?” There’s not enough space to describe it here, but
it certainly isn’t limited to “tattling on your friends” and “being honest whenever you’re under supervision.” The college must also
show its students that it trusts them to act honorably. Keeping self-scheduled exams would be an effective demonstration of trust.

A renewed emphasis upon honor and trust wouldn’t create a college full of saints. It would, however, be better than
continuing in our present direction and deciding to eliminate self-scheduled exams. Such an action would demonstrate a lack of faith
in Davidson’s students which could very well tear the Honor System apart. For how can a student believe in the
Honor Code if the college leadership openly admits that it doesn't work?

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Our offices are located on the lofty summit of "Mount
Union,” overlooking the picturesque parking lots and garbage dumpsters of the new Union grocery store. Opinions expressed in letters to
the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of theEditorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per
year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the
Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Margaret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Muadi Mukenge, Rachel Nation,
Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall, Katherine Price, Walt Reynolds, Robert Smalley, Toby Truog.

Features Staff: Ash Ahsanuddin, Russell Booker, Glenn Fogie, Tim Jacks, Frank Lord, Muadi Mukenge, Carey Pickard, Bill Scouten.

Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, Anthony McCarron, Holme Otrogge, Philip Prescott, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell.

Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation, Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts.

Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn.

Production Staff: Helen Bowman, Robert Coggins, David Dillon, Christian Harberts, Helen Hull, Se-Hoon Oh, Bowe Strickland, Susan Majors.

Circulation Staff: Caroline Buxton, Laura Dodenhoff, Callie Hammond, Tim Jacks, Ingrid Love, Linda Tatsapaugh.

Cultural Consultant: Lee Eichelberger.

Friday, December 4, 1987

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SUBJECT: DATE RAPE ON CAMPUS: "Hey Babe, Want Women Never to Be IN CONTROL OF THEMSELVES."

Dean's Basket

To the Editor:

Caught a good look at the choices for the Sesquicentennial Gift, folks? If you have not, please allow me to
elaborate. The choices on the ballot are: Concrete benches “arranged in clusters,” a landscaped outdoor sitting area, a sundial, an
outdoor flagpole for the Sesquicentennial flag and the class flag, the Davidson College seal in bronze set in the plaza
in front of Chambers, a fountain, or “revitalization” (fixing up for those not fluent in academic b---s---) of the old
water fountain, the original college well. Whew! You scared me, ladies and gentlemen of the committee; for a minute I
thought you might make a suggestion which would serve future students.

Make no mistake -- I have nothing against a pretty campus. As a matter of fact, that’s one reason why
I came to Davidson. But there are things which could be done that will serve students and which require immediate
attention. Since I am a member of the student body and will be hit up for cash for this auspicious
legacy, I would like to bounce a few suggestions off the heads of the people who came up with the
previous list:

New chairs for Chambers: Hearsay tells me that the Class of 1987 tried this one, but was overruled (by whom,
I do not know). Whether or not this is true, the fact remains that Chambers needs new chairs -- the
ones we have now are so old and beat-up that they squeak like mice in a rusted Dodge.

Library books: Ever tried to do a decent psychology or political science paper? The library needs a lot of books
-- like double the number it has now. Two or three hundred would be a step in the right direction,
however.

More PCs: With the elimination of word-processing on the College’s computer system, the typing of papers has been relegated to
personal computers. Unfortunately, the supply of these nifty little wonders has not quite caught up with student demand, as anyone
trying to type in the computer center during the last few weeks of the term should realize. The Computer Center
is trying to obtain more PCs, but for that they need money. The gift could be some personal computers, or
better yet, more printers. It seems sort of ridiculous to have to run from the library to the Computer Center
to have a paper printed; it also creates a frustrating backlog. If one were to shut the door of the
typing room in the library, the noise should not be terribly excessive.

Better lab equipment: I know the science departments need new stuff, judging from comments made by both students and faculty;
I also know that they want expensive stuff -- but every bit helps.

I know mine is an expensive list. But does the Sesquicentennial gift money have to be the sole sponsor of
a worthwhile endeavor? I really do not care whether the letters “Sesquicentennial Gift” are on anything we buy, as long
as something useful is purchased. Now, sure, benches and sitting areas are useful, and very nice. They are not, however,
of immediate importance. A sundial is pretty useless, though (and ugly). I think the College seal in bronze is a
wee bit pretentious -- I should hope that I would not have to buy jewelry for my Alma Mater to
prove how much I love her. You don’t want to know where I think a Sesquicentennial flag and its pole
should go.

Is there a rule against useful items being purchased as a college gift? I should hope not. In any case,
think hard, fellow members of the “Davidson community,” because, if I may paraphrase Bill Cosby, it really is your money.

Russell Booker
