12

- Friday, April 24, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

In defense of the Mets

BY BRUCE SARKISIAN

The New York Mets, by virtue of their on-the-field heroics and off-the-field controversies, are arguably the most talked about team
in baseball. Being a Mets fan at Davidson is not often very blissful. It’s definitely not easy to be in
a room watching them on television and having ten other people rooting for the other team whether it is the
St. Louis Cardinals or the Russian National team. Often it can be very lonely, but having a World Series champion
team on your side sure makes things a lot easier.

Am I gloating? Yes, but my purpose in writing this article is not to proclaim from the rooftops how great
the Mets are. It is just to inform you that the Mets are not a bunch of obnoxious, hateable showboats.
On the contrary, they take their curtain calls to please the fans, not to boost their own egos. Take Gary
Carter for instance. He is hated by nearly everyone who is not a Mets fan, and by most opposing players.
They accuse him of gloating and waving defeat in other teams’ faces. But he does that because he loves the
game and because he loves his fans. For example, in a game against the Braves at Shea this season, he
made an excellent play and prevented a run from scoring. He then ran off the field holding the ball aloft
and with a wide grin on his face. He didn’t do that to gloat, he did it because he knew
he saved the team from a possible defeat, and because he knew the fans loved him for it.

The curtain calls after home runs at Shea are much the same. What is the matter with taking a bow
before 55,000 standing, cheering fans? If that is done at the theater or at a concert after a virtuoso performance
it is all right. So why not at a baseball park? The players are performers too. The other team may
feel like they are getting defeat rubbed in their face, but they have a home field too.

Admittedly, the past year has shown the Mets off-the-field conduct to be less than exemplary. Dwight Gooden is a case
in point. First, we find out that he has an illegitimate son, and that he will not be getting married.
Then he doesn’t show up for the ticker tape parade after the World Series victory. Finally, he tests positive for
drugs. Many people received the news with joy, but I think it is one of the saddest news stories of
the year. A pitcher so good and so young seems too good to be true. But Gooden was spoiled. He
made too much money too fast and got in with the wrong crowd. The drug scandal does not tell the
world that Gooden is a bad person, just that he was too young and too weak to handle his phenomenal
success.

Before this starts to sound too preachy, my point is that the Mets are no different from anyone else. Give
any twenty-year-old with a high school education that much money and see what happens. Dwight Gooden got in trouble because
he is human, not because he is a Met. It is what the Mets do on the field that makes
me a fan. About a month ago, I tried to get a personalized license from the state of North Carolina
that said “Go Mets.” I was informed however that all the choices with Mets on them were already taken. So
take heart fellow Mets fans, we are not so few in number, and no matter what Ted Turner says, we
are “America’s Team.”

UNITED CAROLINA BANK

Downtown Davidson

MON—THURS. 9-5

Fri. 9-6

corner of Hwy. 115 & Faith Rd.

(3 Miles North of Davidson College)

Taking Appointments

Mon., Tues., Wed. - 1-4

Thurs., Fri.,

CHILDREN’S HAIRCUT & STYLE

HAIRCUT & STYLE (Male or Female) - $5.00

Call 892-7952 or 892-8894

PERMANENT WAVE Start at $25.00

Sign up for Army ROTC Basic Camp. You'll get six weeks of challenges that can build up your leadership skills
as well as your body. You'll also get almost $700. But hurry. This summer may be your last chance to
graduate from college with a degree and an officer's commission. Be all you can be. See your Professor of Military
Science for details. See Cpt. David Strong in Bak Basement 892-2000 Ext 170

“Let us be your connection to great pizza”

12 in. with 3 toppings— $6.25 16 in. with 3 toppings— $7.75

Mon. - Thurs. 11:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. Fri. and Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. Sunday 4:30 p.m. -
11:00 p.m.

892-9046 25% OFF any order of 3 or more large PIZZAS
