12 Player profiles: A closer look at Davidson basketball
By BILL SMITH

As Coach Bobby Hussey enters his seventh season as head coach, he will be looking to five seniors for their
strong qualities of leadership. These seniors have experienced what it takes to reach the NCAA Tournament as well as win
twenty games in a season, and each will be expected to assert his skills to make this year’s team a
success.

Returning as the starting point guard for the fourth consecutive year is the ultra-talented Derek Rucker. Derek has proven his
basketball skills since his freshman year by leading the team in scoring each year; he entered this 1987-88 season with
1,345 points and should end his career ranked third in scoring. His high-percentage shooting from the perimeter, especially the three-point
range, places him in the upper echelon of players in the NCAA. Also, Derek excels at the charity line with
his career average of eighty-six percent -- he could eclipse Jerry Kroll’s mark of 83.5% set in 1970.

Picked by the Southern Conference coaches to battle for the MVP title, Derek combines with forward Jeff Himes in the
league’s most dangerous twosome on the court. But Derek not only possesses great basketball skills, he also has that unique
court awareness that head coaches desire so heavily. Coach Hussey mentioned one of Derek’s strengths in his “great head for
the game.” Obviously, Derek can score, as proven by his occasional thirty-point-plus games; yet, he understands his role of point
guard and team leader to the extent that he knows when to sacrifice his personal feats for the success of
the team. Derek can see, as Coach Hussey commented, whether a player is having a good night or has the
advantage over an opponent, and he can complement that player for the betterment of the team. It is easily apparent
that Derek contributes heavily to Davidson’s success.

Senior David Fiserv, nicknamed “Fitz,” is another excellent example of a team leader. Although Fitz has not seen much playing
time, his love for basketball and his great attitude contribute to the closeness of this team. Coach Hussey is grateful
for Fitz’s understanding of the game because he often indicates areas of weakness or new ideas. Fitz, a standout as
a pitcher for our baseball team and drafted by the Yankees last year, excels in his mental awareness on the
court.

This year’s team, Fitz mentioned, is the most talented team he has seen in his career and especially has players
who are more versatile. He believes that Davidson will be quicker and more up-tempo than in previous years while maintaining
that aggressive style which improves our defense. Coach Hussey is fortunate to have such a positive influence as Fitz for
his large crop of sophomores and freshmen. From Fitz, Derek, and Coach Hussey came compliments for recent student support. All
three indicated that attendance would be a vital factor in the success of this year’s team. With a tough schedule
-- and this year’s schedule is a fine example -- exuberant support from the student body may very well decide
close games. Finally, Coach Hussey said that one goal for this season is to have 100% of Davidson’s students at
a game.

Where have all the heroes gone? Top basketball schools forget their roots
By CHRIS HUGHES

Back in the 1970s, before Brent Musberger and Billy Packer made college basketball just another made-for-television sports extravaganza, the sport
was dominated by relatively few teams. Everyone’s Top Twenty was bound to include such standbys as North Carolina, Kentucky, and
Indiana. However, not only were these schools the top programs in terms of talent, but also in terms of class
and tradition. Recently, they seem to have forgotten what made them the teams they are.

Kentucky’s tradition goes back over seven decades now and includes NCAA records for best all-time winning percentage and most wins.
Yet, the case against Kentucky has always been that it is too big. In 1977, the NCAA came down on
UK for several minor rules violations by limiting the number of scholarships the Cats could give -- a small slap
on the wrist at the time. Still, less than three years ago, the Lexington Herald-Leader found evidence that UK...

McCarron to Bo Jackson: Sign baseball! NFL’s hobbyist should switch to full time
By DENNIS MCCARRON

After Bo Jackson’s outstanding 221-yard, 3 TD performance on Monday night helped the Raiders mangle Seattle, the former Heisman Trophy
winner is once again making headlines. Should Bo play football or baseball? Does he indeed have to choose one or
the other? Obviously, he is a tremendous athlete and has enjoyed some success at the top level of both his
chosen sports. The problem remains whether or not he can achieve his highest potential in either sport while still pursuing
his “hobbies.”

The Raiders sport the number one rushing offense in the NFL at this writing, thanks largely to Jackson and Marcus
Allen. Bo has amassed 475 yards on the ground in 5 games and has also run for 4 touchdowns. In
addition to this, he has caught 11 passes, including one for a touchdown. The 221 yards of ground gainage he
rumbled for on Monday night was the tenth-best effort in NFL history. To state the obvious, Bo is a helluva
football player. This 6-1, 222-pound tailback also produced over 4 thousand yards and 43 touchdowns during his college career at
Auburn, which he capped in banner style by winning the Heisman and being chosen number one in the NFL draft.

After leaving Auburn, however, Jackson shocked the sports world by opting to pursue a career in baseball. He spurned the
Tampa Bay Bucs’ offer of riches and NFL glory to sign for only $333,000 per year courtesy of the Kansas
City Royals. He spent only a half a year in the minor leagues before being brought up to the bigs.
He has experienced mixed success. His poise, scouts say. Hal McRae, fortunately, many...of his shortcomings have been more widely publicized.
He has, at times, looked brutal. On April 17, 1987, he became the 25th player in major league history to
strike out five times in one game. This whiff-a-thon prompted a 20 K in 10 game binge. He only chipped
in with a lowly .207 batting average in his 1986 cup of coffee with the Royals, and started '87 out
by fanning 7 times in his first 13 trips to the plate.

It would slight Bo’s baseball talents, though, to avoid mentioning some good things about him. He did pound 22 home
runs in 1987, and also drove in 53 runs. He gave a startling demonstration of his strength last spring when
he smashed a broken bat grand slam 475 feet against King George’s New York Yankees. The comparisons to Willie Mays,
however, are a tad premature. Bo announced, in fine taste, that he would pursue football with the Los Angeles Raiders,
even before his season with the Royals concluded. After this, he proceeded to add to his lofty strikeout totals by
whiffing 46 times in his final 119 at-bats. Perhaps he felt that after he had ensconced himself as sport’s most
publicized two-sport man, he could ease up a little.

After his great game Monday night, he was asked about his two-sport situation and what he was going to do
about it. He replied, in typical brash Bo fashion, “I haven’t really thought about it,” he said, “Why should I?
Right now I’m just having fun.” Can he continue his “fun,” I wonder, when spring training rolls around? Can he
convince us that his concentration will be good enough to continue to improve in both sports? What about his teammates?
Many professional athletes have clauses in their contracts prohibiting them from engaging in activities deemed unsafe by management. When Royals
teammate George Brett heard about Bo’s dangerous new “hobby” of running over 250-pound linebackers in the NFL, he stated, “I’m
thinking about taking up Brahma bull riding and sword fighting.” Perhaps they do not appreciate his dual interests, especially when
he performs such tricks as leaving autographed pictures of himself accepting the Heisman Trophy on Royals autograph day. Marcus Allen,
another former Heisman winner, cannot be too pleased, having to share the ball-carrying duties with Bo, not to mention the
headlines.

The bottom line is this: Bo Jackson has got to make a decision. In a situation similar to the woman
who has to choose between two lovers, Bo has got to decide which to give his heart to. From my
point of view, seeing him in the headlines discussing his new hobbies only serves to infuriate me. I think he
should pick one and shut up. His mind was on the gridiron in late September each time he threw his
bat down in disgust after another whiff. It could have been disastrous if the Royals were fighting more doggedly for
the pennant. Who can say what would happen if the Raiders were facing fourth and goal late in the fourth
quarter of the AFC Championship game, down by 5, and Bo’s number got called when he was due to fly
to Ft. Myers, Fla., to begin spring training with the Royals? His success and potential for further success is exponentially
higher in carrying the ball than swinging at it. Bo is an awe-inspiring athlete, but he needs to choose one
or the other. He loses too much time in the football season, eventually even his sculpted body will need a
rest between seasons, and his concentration must suffer under the demands of two long seasons. Make the switch, Bo, strap
on the shoulder pads for good.

The article led to threats against the writers. When the NCAA came to Lexington, they found a lot of tight-lipped
alums and unhappy fans but no proof. There are many who firmly believe that UK does cheat, including Indiana coach
Bobby Knight. Anyone who has seen Knight in action or read last season’s best-selling "A Season on the Brink" knows
that Knight is possibly the smartest coach in the nation. Knight seems to enjoy bringing himself back down to Earth
as shown by his recent display in a game against the Russian national team. First, he complained that the Russians
should not be allowed to prepare for the Olympics by playing America’s best teams. Then he brought them to Bloomington
to play his very own Hoosiers. If this wasn’t enough, Knight then proceeded to pick up three technicals and pull
his team off the court with 15 minutes to play and losing by nearly 20 points. Knight did later apologize
to the fans for not allowing them to see the last half of a game in which they had probably
lost interest anyway. I’m not even going to mention Puerto Rico or “the chair.”

Finally, there’s North Carolina. While I have never had any great love for the Tar Heels, I have held them
in high regard. They are always a force to be reckoned with and a high-class organization. That is why I
was shocked to see that two of their most highly regarded players, J.R. Reid and Steve Bucknall, had been charged
with assault. While I am sure that the two were provoked into their escapades in that bar in Raleigh, I
still had to wonder if this was really happening at UNC and not LSU, Clemson, or UNLV. I am still
surprised that North Carolina players spit in public, much less go to bars in enemy territory. However, Smith did the
right thing by suspending the two for the Syracuse game. The whole episode would be just a curiosity if not
for the fact that Smith has almost treated it with a holier-than-thou attitude. Suspending the two was the just thing
to do. Smith should have just done it without feeling free to comment on how his boys were being picked
on by young drunks at State. If they are innocent, defend them. If they are guilty, suspend them.
