Friday, February 6, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Sports Page - 11

Wildcat fans and teams need Johnston
By EDWIN PAGE

Some of the best memories that I have of Davidson are of the many nights that I have spent screaming
myself hoarse in Johnston Gym during the past four basketball seasons. The intimacy that the gym provides allows our small
but vocal crowds to really make a big difference in the outcome of the games played there. For an example,
look at last year’s Cats who were 12-0 in Johnston and 2-8 on the road during the regular season. While
the won-lost record relies primarily on the talent of the team, I think it would be foolish to say that
the fans have no power to sway the outcome of games. Whether it is 10,000 coal miners or 2500 ‘tude
pigs in the stands, they have an effect.

At the beginning of the 1988-89 season, the Cats will move into the new 6,000 seat basketball arena and wave
goodbye forever to Johnston Gym. While Coach Hussey and Kit Morris talk glowingly about the multiple benefits this will bring
to the basketball program, I have a few reservations. I strongly believe that 6000 seats is just too many for
most of Davidson’s games. Every single Davidson student could bring his or her mother, father, and favorite sibling to the
game and there would still be 600 seats unused. With an average home attendance of under 1900 per game at
Johnston Gym this season, the noise level has been deafening. With 1900 spectators present, a 6000 seat arena will closely
resemble a tomb.

Western Carolina moved this season from 3400 seat Reid Gymnasium to a new 8000 seat facility so I called Steve
White at the WCU Sports Information office to see what the added space has done for their program. In thirty
years in Reid, the Catamounts won an amazing 81 percent of their games. Last year the team went 10-4 there.
The 86-87 Catamounts, who White described as “basically the same team,” are thus far 3-9 in their new home. In
addition, attendance is down from last year’s level despite a crowd of 8,114 to see Western play N.C. State to
open the season. Since that game, Western has drawn an average of only about 2200 per game compared to 2800
at Reid last season. I asked White about the effects of the new facility. “There was a tremendous advantage playing
in the old facility. When you get crowds of 8000 here it’s a nice situation, but we’ve had some crowds
of 1700 and you sort of lose any home court advantage. It really soaks up the noise.”

Coach Hussey is quoted in the basketball program as saying that the new arena will have as one of its
advantages “improved seating.” I have trouble seeing how the seating could improve. Every seat in Johnston Gym is practically on
top of the court, but with 6000 seats this will not be possible. The new arena is also expected to
be a recruiting aid. It may, however, be that a winning team and rabid fans are also a good recruiting
aid. Johnston Gym may lack aesthetic value, but it helps in other areas. Although I do not believe we should
play all of our games in the new arena, I realize that it will carry many benefits including more gym
space for students and the ability to play big games at Davidson instead of Charlotte. We should not, however, let
our pride in our new facility override our good sense. The crowds that fail to fill Johnston to capacity for
most games will not magically expand to fill the 3500 newly created seats. In the foreseeable future, Davidson will not
need more than 2500 seats more than one or two times a year. I hope we will have the foresight
to recognize this and not abandon Johnston just because something bigger is available. Bigger is not always better. Ask Western
Carolina.

Fools transcend definition of a basketball team
By MIKE ADAMS

The arenas of athletic endeavor are occasionally graced by moments of transcendence. On rare days, an athlete or a team
will transcend mere sport, will go beyond the bonds of humanity itself, and become emblem, symbol, type. When Michael Jordan
scored 63 points against the Boston Celtics in the NBA playoffs, he surpassed the game. The other nine men on
the court became not fellow players, but merely a backdrop for a basketball archetype. Larry Bird — no stranger to
moments of transcendence — said he had just watched “God disguised as Michael Jordan.”

Davidson was blessed this winter by the presence of such a transcendent team. “Sut Luvingood’s Natural Born Durn Fools,” as
they style themselves, sprang unannounced from the lowly reaches of IMAC basketball B-league and quickly established themselves as a force
to be reckoned with as they challenged the boundaries not only of their sport, but the boundaries of art and
poetry and language as well. These frontiersmen of basketball, these traversers of the Cumberland Gap of sport, are Torrey Hyatt,
Dave Van Pelt, Rich Link, Perry Mathewes, John Reynolds, Tim Nielsen and Rob Norman. I name them here, but their
truest beings...stem from their identification with their archetypical unit. They are like the Magnificent Seven, the Dirty Dozen, the Twelve
Disciples—more real in the context of their group. The Fools understand the essence of sport. Their search is for grace,
beauty, rhythm—the interplay of the human form with the geometric confines of the basketball court. They move beyond mere competition
to a much broader and deeper understanding of their milieu. As a matter of fact, according to the hidebound, timeworn
method of measuring basketball success—tallying the score—they have lost every game. They seek balance. The Fools understand the principles of
death and rebirth, force and resistance, motion and stasis that give structure to our world. They contribute what they have
to the service of this principle, making sure that everyone scores in every game. Sometimes this leads to poor shooting
percentages, but the Fools do not care because they know that such is part of the natural order of the
universe. After all, does it not take the death of millions of sperm to enable one to fertilize an egg?

The Shakespearian influences on this team are amazing. The theme of appearance versus reality, so often present in the works
of the Immortal Bard, never leaves the minds of the Fools. A prime example of this theme in action on
the basketball court is a maneuver known by Hyatt as the Optical Dunk. On this play, a Fool streaks down
the court alone and slams the ball forcefully against the backboard, giving the momentary impression that he has dunked it.
The appearance transcends the reality. The move has all the weight and import of the actual dunk without the material
baggage of scoring points.

Hyatt also challenges the spectator’s belief system—his ability to distinguish appearance from reality—in his choice of clothing. His “Air Hyatt”
wardrobe consists of long khaki pants rolled to mid-calf, a flannel shirt, and deck shoes without socks. His iconoclastic dress
challenges accepted ideas about how a basketball player should look.

Reynolds has a dream. He dreams of the perfect basketball shot. So great is his depth of understanding that he
realizes the perfect shot must involve the absolute minimum amount of participation on the part of the shooter. He must
shoot blindly; he must in no way let his individuality interfere with the shot, for in the end, it is
the ball that must score and not himself. In attempting the perfect shot, Reynolds stands with his back to the
basket and arches the ball backwards over his head without looking. So far, he has fallen short in his attempts,
but the daring, courage, and insight of the attempt itself transcend the common herd.

The Fools play games not only with sport but with language as well. Their actions on the court challenge the
way word-symbols operate, the way sound relates to meaning. On one particularly moving occasion, a Fool called out the defensive
scheme “full court press.” Van Pelt, pierced by insight’s arrow, immediately flung himself down and pushed as hard as he
could on the floor. This action not only questioned the meaning of the sport’s vocabulary but challenged the validity of
any and all word statements we might make.

What the Fools finally do is transcend sport much as poetry transcends language. Just as good poetry creates new meaning
and insights out of the juxtaposition or comparison of old images, the Fools change the way we think about sports,
the arts, and life itself by the way they play the game. Their sport-art-language-life synthesis is new and sometimes shocking,
but it is wholly unforgettable. Unfortunately, the season is over for the Fools. All we can do is thank them
for the lessons they taught us, the way they moved us, and the new heights to which they challenge us
to climb.

Friday evening entertainment
Healthy Snacks and Sandwiches!
Imported BEER and WINE
Downtown Davidson
